OF THE

UN Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

823,,

vel

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/schwartz01murr

BY

D. CHRISTIE MURRAY

AUTHOR OF ; AU>"T RACHEL.' ' THE WEAKER VESSEL.' ETC.

IN TVVO VOLUMES
VOL. I

Horton
MACMILLAN AND CO.

AND NEW YORK


All rights reserved



LO

LO
CD

CONTENTS OF VOL. I

PAGE

I. Schwartz : a History 1

II. Young Mr. Barter's Repen^^ce . . 69

x

>*

i

<^

^

VOL. I

I WAS expatriated by a man with an axe. The
man and the axe were alike visionary and unreal,
though it needed a very considerable effort of the
will to hold them at mental arm's length. I had
work on hand which imperatively demanded to
be finished, and I was so broken down by a long
course of labour that it was a matter of actual
difficulty with me when I sat down at my desk
of a morning to lay hold of the thread of last
night's work, and to recall the personages who
had moved through my manuscript pages for the
past three or four months. The day's work
always began with a fog, which at first looked

impenetrable, but would brighten little by little
until I could see my ideal friends moving in it,
and could recognise their familiar lineaments.
Then the fog would disperse altogether, and a
certain indescribable, exultant, feverish brightness
would succeed it, and in this feverish brightness
my ideal friends would move and talk as it were
of their own volition.

But one morning — it was in November, and
the sand-tinged foam flecks caught from the
stormy bay were thick on the roadway before my
window — the fog was thicker and more obdurate
than common. I read and re-read the work of
the day before, and the written words conveyed
no meaning. In a dim sort of way this seemed
lamentable, and I remember standing at the window,
and looking out to where the white crests
of the waves came racing shorewards under a
leaden-coloured sky, and saying to myself over
and over again, ' Oh, that way madness lies ! '
but without any active sentiment of dismay or

fear, and with a clouded, uninterested wonder as
to where the words came from. Quite suddenly
I became aware of a second presence in the
chamber, and turned with an actual assurance
that some one stood behind me. I was alone, asa
single glance about the room informed me, but
the sense of that second presence was so clearly
denned and positive that the mere evidence of
sight seemed doubtful.

The day's work began in the manner which
had of late grown customary, and in a while the
fog gave way to a brilliance unusually flushed
and hectic. The uninvited, invisible personage
kept his place, until, even with the constant fancy
that he was there looking over my shoulder, and
so close that there was always a risk of contact,
I grew to disregard him. All day long he
watched the pen travelling over the paper, all
day long I was aware of him, featureless, shadowy,
expressionless, with a vague cheek near my own.
During the brief interval I gave myself for

luncheon he stood behind my chair, and, being
much refreshed and brightened by my morning's
work, I mocked him quite gaily.

'Your name is Nerves,' I told him within
myself, ' and you live in the land of Mental
Overwork. I have still a fortnight's stretch
across the country you inhabit, and if you so
please you may accompany me all the way.
You may even follow me into the land of Repose
which lies beyond your own territory, but its air
will not agree with you. You will dwindle,
peak, and pine in that exquisite atmosphere, and
in a very little while I shall have seen the last
of you.'

After luncheon I took a constitutional on the
pier, not without a hope that my featureless
friend might be blown away by the gusty wind,
which came bellowing up from the Firth of
Forth, with enough stinging salt and vivifying
freshness in it, one might have fancied, to shrivel
up a host of phantoms. I tramped him up and

down the gleaming planks in the keen salt wind
for half an hour, and he shadowed me unthinkingly.
With the worst will in the world I took
him home, and all afternoon and all evening he
stuck his shadowy head over my shoulder, and
watched the pen as it spread its cobweb lines
over the white desert of the paper. He waited
behind my chair at dinner, and late at night,
when the long day's work at last was over, he
hung his intrusive head over my shoulder and
stared into the moderate glass of much-watered
whisky which kept a final pipe in company.

He had grown already into an unutterable
bore, and when he insisted upon passing the
night with me I could — but for the obvious inutility
of the thing — have lost my temper fairly.
He took his place at the bed-head, and kept it
till I fell asleep. He was there when I awoke
in the night, and probably because the darkness,
the quiet, and the sense of solitude were favourable
to him he began to grow clearer. Quite

suddenly, and with a momentary but genuine
thrill of fear, I made a discovery about him. He
carried an axe. This weapon was edged like a
razor, but was unusually solid and weighty at the
back. From the moment at which I first became
aware of it to that happy hour when my phantom
bore departed and took his weapon with him,
there was never a conscious second in which the
axe was not in act to fall, and yet it never fell.
It was always going to strike and never struck.

You cannot be supposed to know it, my
phantom nuisance,' I said, being ready to seek
any means by which I might discredit the dreadful
rapidity with which he seemed to be growing
real; 'you cannot be supposed to know it, but
one of these days you will furnish excellent copy.
As a literary man's companion you are not quite
without your uses. One of these days I will
haunt a rascal with you, and he shall sweat and
shiver at you, as I decline to sweat and shiver.
You observe I take you gaily. I am very much

inclined to think that if I took you any other
way that axe might fall, and sever something
which might be difficult to mend. So long as

you choose to staY. I mean to make a study of

•/ <. - <,

you

Most happily I was able to adhere to that
resolve, but I solemnly declare it made him no
less dreadful. Sometimes I tried to ignore him,
but that was a sheer impossibility. Very often
I flouted him and jeered at him, mocked him
with his own unreality, and dared him to carry
out his constant threat and strike. But all day
and every day, and in all the many sleepless
watches of my nights, he kept me company, and
every hour the threatened blow of the razor-edged
axe seemed likelier to fall. But at last
thank Heaven — the work was done, I touched
the two or three hundred pounds which paid for
it, and I was free to take a holiday.

We had grown too accustomed to each other
to part on a sudden, even then. I never saw

him, for he was always behind me (and even
when I stood before a mirror he was invisible but
there), but he was no longer featureless. His
eyes shone through a black vizard with one unwinking,
glittering, ceaseless threat. He wore a
slashed doublet with long hose reaching to the
upper thigh, and he had a rosette on each instep.
I can see quite clearly now the peculiar dull cold
gleam the razor-edged axe wore as he stood in
some shadowed place behind me, and the brighter
gleam it had in daylight in the streets.

When I had borne with him until I felt that
I could bear with him no longer, I took him,
being back in town again, to a London physician
of some eminence. The doctor took him somewhat
gravely, insisted upon absolute mental rest,
prescribed a tonic, laid down certain rules about
diet, certain restrictions upon wine and tobacco,
and ordered immediate change of scene.

To begin with I went to Antwerp, thence to
Brussels, and thence, by the merest chance in the

world, to Janenne, a little village in the Belgian
Ardennes, at no great distance from the French
frontier. I had no idea of staying there, and on
the surface of things there was no reason why I
should have prolonged my stay beyond a day or
two. People visit Janenne in the summer time,
and suppose themselves to have exhausted its
limited attractions in four-and-twenty hours.
There is nothing at first sight to keep the stranger
longer, but if he will only stay for a week he will
inevitably want to stay for a fortnight, and if
once he has stayed for a fortnight, his business
is done, and he is in love with Janenne for the
rest of his natural life. Rural quiet has made
her home in Janenne, and contentment dwells
with her, sleepy-eyed.

Even in the first week of December, the russet
and amber-coloured leaves still cling to the
branches of the huge old lime-trees of Lorette,
and my lonely feet on the thick carpet of dead
leaves below made the sole sound I heard there

except the ceaseless musical tinkle of chisel and
stone from the distant granite quarries — a succession
of notes altogether rural in suggestion —
like the tinkle of many sheep-bells. Even in
that first week of December I could sit in the
open air there, where the mild winter sunlight
flashed the huge crucifix and the colossal Christ
of painted wood, which poise above the toy chapel
carved out of the live rock. The chapel and the
crucifix are at one end of a lime-tree avenue a
third of a mile long, and the trees are aged beyond
strict local knowledge, gnarled and warty
and bulbous and great of girth. You climb to
Lorette by a gentle ascent, and below the rock-carved
chapel lies a precipice — not an Alpine
affair at all, but a reasonable precipice for Belgium
— say, two or even three hundred feet, and
away and away and away, the golden-dimpled
hills go changing from the yellowish green of
winter grass to the variously-toned grays of the
same grass in mid-distance, and then to a blue

which grows continually easier until it melts at
the sky-line, and seems half to blend with the
dim pallid sapphire of a December sky.

Here, ' with an ambrosial sense of over-weariness
failing into sleep would I often sit at the
foot of the great crucifix, and would smoke the
pipe of idleness, a little unmindful, perhaps, of the
good London doctor's caution against the misuse
of tobacco. It was here that I awoke to the
fact one day that the man with the axe was
absent. He had slipped away with no good-byes
on either side, and I was blissfully alone again.
The sweet peace of it, and the quiet of it no
tongue or pen can tell. The air was balsamic
with the odours of the pines which clothed the
hillsides for miles and miles and miles in squares
and oblongs and a hundred irregular forms of blackish
green, sometimes snaking in a thin dark line,
sometimes topping a crest with a close-cropped
hog-mane, and sometimes clustering densely over
a whole slope, but always throwing the neighbouring

yellows and greens and grays into a wonderful
aerial delicacy of contrast. The scarred lime
trunks had a bluish gray tone in the winter
sunlight, and the carpet at their feet was of
Indian red and sienna and brown, of fiercest
scarlet and gold and palest lemon colour, of amber
and russet and dead green. And everywhere,
and in my tired mind most of all, was peace.

I had been a fortnight at Janenne when my
intrusive phantom left me on Lorette. I had
made no acquaintances, for I was but feeble at
the language, and did not care to encounter the
trouble of talking in it. The first friendship I
made — I have since spent three years in the
delightful place, and have made several friendships
there — was begun within five minutes of
that exquisite moment at which I awoke to the
fact that my phantom was away.

There was not a living creature in sight, and
there was not a sound to be heard except the
distant tinkle of chisel and stone, and the occasional

rustle of a falling leaf, until Schwartz, the
subject of this history, walked pensively round a
corner eighty yards down the avenue, and paused
to scratch one ear with a hind foot. He stood
for a time with a thoughtful air, looked up the
avenue and down the avenue, and then with slow
deliberation, and an occasional pause for thought,
he walked towards me. When within half a
dozen yards he stopped and took good stock of
me, with brown eyes overhung by thick grizzled
eyebrows. Then he offered a short, interrogative,
authoritative bark, a mere monosyllable of inquiry.

A stranger I responded. ' An invalid
stranger.'

He seemed not only satisfied, but, for some
unknown reason, delighted. He wagged the
cropped stump of a gray tail, and writhed his
whole body with a greeting that had an almost
slavish air of charmed propitiation ; and then,
without a word on his side or on mine, he
mounted the steps which led to the great crucifix,

sate down upon the topmost step beside me, and
nestled his grizzled head in my lap. I confess
that he could have done nothing which would
have pleased me more. I have always thought the
unconditional and immediate confidence of a dog ora
child a sort of certificate to character, though I
know well that there is a kind of dog whose
native friendliness altogether outruns his discretion,
and who is doomed from birth to fall into
error, and to encounter consequent rebuffs which
must be grievous to be borne.

My new companion wore a collar, and had
other signs that distinguished him from the mere
mongrel of the village street, but he was of no
particular breed. His coat was of a bluish gray,
and though soft enough to the touch, had a harsh
and spiky aspect. He came nearer to being a
broken-haired terrier than anything else, but I
seemed to discern half a dozen crosses in him,
and a lover of dogs who asked for breed would
not have offered sixpence for him.

Somewhere about the year 1560 this tranquil
and beautiful country was devastated by a plague
which carried off hundreds of its sparse inhabitants,
and left many villages desolate. The
legends of the country-side tell of places in
which no human life remained.

The people of Janenne, headed by the doyen,
made a pilgrimage in procession to the shrine of
Our Lady of Lorette, and offered to strike a
bargain. They promised that if Janenne should
be spared from the plague they and their descendants
for ever would each year repeat that
procession in honour of Our Lady of Lorette, and
that once in seven years they would appear
under arms and fire a salvo. "Whether in conseil.

i c

quench of this arrangement or not, Janenne
escaped the plague, and from that year to this
the promised procession has never been forgotten.
In course of time it became less the local mode
than it had been to carry arms, and nowadays
the great septennial procession can only be gone
through after a prodigious deal of drilling and
preparation.

A week or two after my arrival the villagers
began to train, under the conduct of a stout
military-looking personage, who had been in the
Belgian cavalry and gendarmerie, and was now
in honourable retirement from war's alarms as a
grocer. He traded under the name of Dorn-
Casart — the wife's maiden name being tacked to
his own, after the manner of the country. This
habit, by the way, gives a certain flavour of
aristocracy to the trading names over even the
smallest shop windows. ' Coqueline - Walhaert,
negotiate? is the sign over the establishment
wherein a very infirm old woman sells centimes'

worth of sweet stuff to the jeunesse of Janenne,
whilst her husband works at the quarries.

Monsieur Dorn is a man with a huge moustache,
fat cheeks streaked with scarlet lines on a
bilious groundwork, and a voice rasp with much
Geneva and the habit of command. He rides
with the unmistakable seat of an old cavalryman,
and his behaviour on horseback was a
marked contrast to that of the mounted contingent
he drilled every day in the open place in
front of the hotel. His steed, artfully stimulated
by the spur, caracoled, danced, and lashed outwith
his hind feet, and Monsieur Dorn, with one
fist stuck against his own fat ribs, swayed to the
motion with admirable nonchalance. His voice,
which has the bark tone inseparable from military
command, would ring about the square like
the voice of a commander-in-chief, and by the
exercise of a practised imagination, I could
almost persuade myself that I stood face to face
with the horrid front of war.

When Monsieur Dorn was not drilling his
brigade he was generally to be found at the Cafe
de la Regency, smoking a huge meerschaum with
a cherry wood stem and sipping Geneva. Even
in this comparative retirement the halo of his
office clung about him, and seemed to hold men
off from a too familiar intercourse ; but one afternoon
I saw him unbending there. He was nearly
always accompanied by a dog, spotlessly white,
the most ladylike of her species I remember to
have seen. Her jet-black beady eyes and jet-black
glittering nose set off the snowy whiteness
of her coat, and were in turn set off by it. She
had a refined, coquettish, mincing walk, which
alone was enough to bespeak the agreeable sense
she had of her own charms. Perhaps a satiric
observer of manners might have thought her
more like a lady's-maid than a lady. A suggestion
of pertness in her beady eyes, and a certain
superciliousness of bearing were mingled with a
coquetry not displeasing to one who surveyed

her from the human height. To look important
is pretty generally to feel important, but is, by
no means, to be important. We discern this
fact with curious clearness when we look at other
people, but it is nowhere quite so evident as in
what we call the brute creation. (As if we
didn't belong to it !) Perhaps there are intelligences
who look at us with just such a pitying
amusement and analysis — our prosperous relatives,
who started earlier in the race of life than we
did, and met with better chances.

In spite of airs and graces, natural and
acquired, Lil's claims to purity of race were
small, though, like my older acquaintance,
Schwartz, she was more a broken-haired terrier
than anything else. Schwartz was simply and
purely bourgeois. He had no airs and no pretensions
; but Lil, whatever her genuine claims
may have been, was of another stamp and
fashion.

It was Lil who was the cause of Monsieur

Dorn's unbending. The fat old gendarme was
putting her through a set of tricks, which she
executed with complete aplomb and intelligence.
There was nothing violent in these exercises ;
nothing a dog of the best breeding in the world
could have felt to derogate from dignity. She
was much petted and applauded for her performances,
and was rewarded by two or three
lumps of sugar, which she ate without any of the
vulgar haste characteristic of most dogs in their
dealings with sweetmeats.

The language of the peasantry hereabouts is
that same Walloon tongue in which old Froissart
wrote his Chronicles. It is little more comprehensible
to the average Frenchman than to the average
Englishman, but its vocabulary is restricted,
and the people who talk it have enriched (or
corrupted) it with many words of French. When
the loungers in the cafe began to talk, as they
did presently, it amused me to listen to this
unknown tongue ; and whenever I heard ' la

procession ' named, I enjoyed much the kind of
refreshment Mr. Margery experienced when he
encountered a J.O., Jo, in the course of his
general reading. La procession was not merely
the staple of the village talk, but the warp and
woof of it, and any intruding strand of foreign
fancy was cut short at the lips of him who strove
to spin it into the web of conversation. I myself
ventured an inquiry or two, for all but the most
ignorant speak French of a sort. Monsieur Dorn
accepted a glass of piquet at my request (a fire-water,
for a dose of which one halfpenny is charged,
and upon which the unaccustomed stranger may
intoxicate himself madly at an outlay of five-pence),
and the fat and stately old fellow told me
all about the origin and meaning of the pious
form the village was then preparing to fulfil.
He made the kindest allowance for my limited
powers of speech, and bounteously fed my native
sense of retiring humility with patronage.

The door of the cafe was open to the mild, fir-scented

December air, though a crackling fire
burnt noisily in the thin-ribbed stove. Lil made
occasional excursions to the open doorway, looking
out upon the passers-by with a keen alertness.
She had some time returned from one of these
inspections, and had curled herself at her master's
feet, when I heard a singular and persistent tapping
upon the unclothed floor, and looking round
caught sight of my friend Schwartz, who was
making a crouching and timid progress toward
us, and was wagging his cropped tail with such
vehemence that it sounded on the boards like a
light hammer on a carpeted flooring. At first I
fancied that he recognised me, and I held out to
him an encouraging hand, of which he took no
notice. That air of propitiatory humility which
I had seen in him when we had first encountered
on Lorette was exaggerated to a slavish adulation.
There is no living creature but a dog who would
not have been ashamed to show such a mixture
of transport and self-depreciation. He fawned,

he writhed, he rapped his tail upon the floor ina
sustained crescendo. The dumb heart had no
language for its own delight and humility. Anybody
who takes pleasure in dogs has seen the
sort of thing scores and scores of times. It was
the quality of intensity which made it remarkable
in Schwartz.

Lil, for whom this display of joy and humbleness
was made, was altogether unmoved by it.
She was not merely regardless of it, but ostentatiously
disdainful. She took a coquettish
lady's - maidish amble to the door, passing
Schwartz by the way, and yawned as she looked
out upon the street. Schwartz fawned after her
to the door, and with a second yawn she repassed
him, and returned to lie at the feet of the fat old
gendarme. The absurd little drama of coquetry
and worship went on until the old fellow arose
with a friendly Ion jour, to me, and a whistle to
Lil, who followed him with a supercilious nose in
the air. The despised Schwartz stood a while,

and then set out after her at a ridiculous three-legged
run, but before he had gone ten yards he
stopped short, looked after the retreating fair in
silence, and then walked off with a dispirited
aspect in the opposite direction.

So far as I could tell, my shadowy enemy
with the axe had taken himself away for good
and all, but I was so fearful of recalling him that
I kept altogether idle, and in other respects
nursed and coddled myself with a constant assiduity.
But it is a hard thing for a man who
has accustomed himself to constant mental employment
to go without it, and in the absence of
pens, ink, and paper, books and journals, the procession
bade fair to be a perfect godsend. Even
when the inhabitants of the village took to rising
at four o'clock in the morning, and fanfaronaded
with ill-blown bugles, and flaring torches, and a
dreadful untiring drum about the street, I forbore
to grumble, and when on Sundays they turned
out in a body after mass to see their own military

section drilled in the Place of the Hotel de Ville,
one bored valetudinarian welcomed them heartily.
The military section had got down uniforms from
one of the Brussels theatres, — bushes and
helmets, and the gloriously comic hats of the
garde civile, — dragoon tunics, hussar jackets, infantry
shell-jackets, cavalry stable - jackets, foresters'
boots, dragoon jack-boots, stage piratical
boots with wide tops to fit the thigh that drooped
about the ankles, — trousers of every sort, from
blue broadcloth, gold - striped, to the homely
fustian, — and a rare show they made. They went
fours right or fours left with a fine military
jangle, and sometimes went fours right and fours
left at the same time, with results disastrous to
military order. Then it was good to see and
hear the fat Dorn as he caracoled in a field-marshal's
uniform, and barked his orders at the
disordered crowd like a field-marshal to the
manner born.

Monsieur Dorn being thus gloriously lifted

into the range of the public eye, Lil seemed to
take added airs of importance. I say seemed, but
that is only because of the foolish and ignorant
habit into which I was born and educated. Ever
since I can remember, people have been telling
stories to prove that dogs have some sort of intelligence,
as if — except to the most stupid and
the blindest — the thing had ever stood in need
of proof. There is nothing much more fatal
to the apprehension of a fact than the constant
causeless repetition of it. And then the tales of
the intelligence of dogs are. told as a general
thing with a sort of wide-eyed wonder, so that the
dog's very advocates contrive to impress their
readers with the belief that their commonplace
bit of history is remarkable.

Of course there are clever dogs and dull dogs,
just as there are sages and idiots, but any dog
who was not a fool would have known and recognised
his master's splendour and importance if he
had belonged at this epoch to Monsieur Dorn.

Lil saw him sitting up there in vivid colours,
heard him shouting in a voice of authority, and
saw people answer to that voice. There was nota
Christian in the crowd who had a better understanding
of the situation. To see her running in
and out amongst the horses' feet, ordering the
sham dragoons and hussars about in her own
language, was to know she understood the thing,
and had invested herself with some of her master's
glory. Wherever she went, in and out and about,
Schwartz, with his meek spikes raging in all
directions, followed, close at heel. Almost everybody
has seen the loud aggressive swaggering
boy with the meek admiring small boy in his
train. The small boy glorifies the other in his
mind, setting him on a level with Three-Fingered
Jack, or Goliath's conqueror, and the aggressive
boy, feeling rather than understanding the other's
reverence, does his best to look as if he deserved
it. To see Lil swagger and to hear her bark, and
to see the foolish humble Schwartz follow her,

admiring her, believing in her, utterly borne away
by her insolent pretence that the whole show was
got up by her orders — to observe this was to see
one half the world in little.

On other days Lil was as other dogs, except,
perhaps, to the love-blinded eyes of Schwartz, but
on Sundays, so long as the drills for the procession
lasted, the field was all her own. One or
two of her companions, carried away by her example,
dared to run amongst the horses' feet and
bark. They were promptly kicked into the ring
of spectators, and Lil was left alone in her glory.
Of course it all went with his own confiding
nature, and the state of complete slavery in which
he lived, to persuade Schwartz of her greatness.
She deserves at least that one truth should be
admitted. She never gave her admirer the least
encouragement so far as I could see. She never
in a chance encounter in the street paused to exchange
good-morrow. She never so much as
turned a head in his direction. She tolerated his

presence and that was all. But wherever she
went he shadowed her. He was not obtrusive,
but was content to keep at heel, and to be
permitted to admire. I have seen him sit
for half an hour on a doorstep, a canine monument
of patience, waiting for her to come out,
and I have seen her travel about the Place
in apparently purposeless zigzags and circles
for the mere pride and vanity of knowing how
closely he would follow her least reasonable
movements.

A week or two before the grand event came
off there was a prodigious excitement in Janenne.
An idea, originating in the military spirit of
Monsieur Dorn, had been industriously put about,
a subscription had been set on foot for it, a committee
had been appointed to superintend its
working, and now the glorious fancy was actually
translated into fact. The procession was to be
supplemented by artillery, and now here was a
time-eaten old gun, mounted on a worm-eaten old

carriage, and trailed in harness of rope by two
stalwart Flemish horses. Here also was gunpowder
enough to wreck the village, and the ,
who for a moral people have a most
astounding love of noise, were out at earliest
dawn of light on Sunday morning to see the gun
fired. The first firing was supposed to be an
experiment, and everybody was warned to a safe
distance when the gun was loaded, whilst Monsieur
Dorn arranged a train of powder, and set a
slow match in connection with it. When the
bang came and the old iron stood the strain
everybody went wild with joy, and even
Monsieur Dorn himself was so carried away
by the general enthusiasm that he tested the
piece all morning. It was finally discovered
that the powder was exhausted, and the hat
had to be sent round again for a new subscription.


The annual procession is far and away the
greatest event of the year at Janenne, and the

septennial procession would of itself be enough to
satisfy any resident in the village that he had
lived if he had but seen it once. Nobody
dreamed of spoiling the procession for the sake of
a cart-load or so of gunpowder, and the hat was
soon filled. Next Sunday Janenne enjoyed a
new series of experiments on the big gun, and
what with the banging of the drum, and the blowing
of the bugle, and the flaming of torches in the
dark morning, and the banging of the big gun
from dawn till noon, and the clatter and glitter
of the drill in the after part of the short winter
day, the atmosphere of the village was altogether
warlike.

The big gun gave Lil an added claim on the
veneration of her admirer. On the morning of
the second firms: she came demurely down to the
field in which the artillery experiments were
conducted, with an air of knowing all about it,
and Schwartz, as usual, pursued her. The gun
was sponged and loaded, and the charge was

VOL. I D

rammed home under Monsieur Dorn's supervision,
Lil standing gravely by, and Schwartz grovelling
in her neighbourhood. Then the old gendarme
himself primed the piece, and taking a torch
from a boy who stood near him applied it to
the touchhole. Out at the muzzle sprang
the answering flame and roar, and away went
Schwartz as if he had been projected by the
force of the powder. Panic declared itself in
every hair, and his usual foolish three-legged
amble was exchanged for a pace like that of a
greyhound. He had gone but a hundred yards
at most, when reason resumed her seat. He
stopped and turned, and after a little pause came
back with an evident shamefacedness. Lil had
stood her ground without the slightest sign of
fear, and when Schwartz returned she took to
looking so triumphantly, and superintended the
subsequent operations with so much authority,
that I am profoundly convinced of her intent to
persuade her slavish follower that this was some

new and astonishing form of bark of which she
alone possessed the secret.

Schwartz was most probably willing to believe
anything she told him. It is the way of some
natures to confide, and it is the way of others to
presume upon their confidence.

Janenne is on the outskirts of the Forest
Country, and in the shooting season the chasseur
is a familiar personage. He arrives by evening
train or diligence, half a dozen strong. He sups
and betakes himself to the singing of comic
songs with choruses, moistening and mellowing
his vocal chords with plenteous burgundy. Long
after everybody else has gone to bed, he tramps
in chorus along the echoing Unclothed corridor,
and he and his chums open bedroom doors to
shout Belgian scraps of acetic at each other, or
to cast prodigious boots upon the sounding boards.
Then long before anybody else has a mind to rise, he
is up again promenading the corridor like a multiplied
copy of the giant in the Castle of Otranto. He

rolls away in the darkness with the cracking of
whips and jingling of bells, and sleep and silence
settle down again. At night he is back to supper
with tales of big game multitudinous as Laban's
flocks, and a bag unaccountably empty. That
same evening he is away to desk or counter or
studio in Brussels, Antwerp, or Liege, and Jan-anne
falls back into its normal peace.

It was mid-December, and the snow was falling
in powdery flakes, when a sportsman alighted
at the Hotel des Postes, and at the first glance I
knew him for a countryman. He was a fine,
frank, free-hearted young fellow, one of the most
easily likable of youngsters, and we were on
friendly terms together before the first evening
was over. He knew a number of people in the
neighbourhood, had received a dozen invitations
to shoot, or thereabouts, and meant to put up
three weeks at Janenne, so he told me, shooting
when sport was to be had, and on other days
tramping about the country. He was accompanied

by a bullterrier, who answered to the
name of Scraper, a handsome creature of his
kind, with one eye in permanent mourning.

Of course he's no good said the young
fellow, in answer to an observation of mine, \ but
then he's perfectly tamed, and therefore he's no
harm. He'll stay where he's told ; and I believe
the poor beggar would break his heart if I left
him behind. Wouldn't you, old chap ? '

The young sportsman went away to the chase
next morning, taking his bull-terrier with him, and
returning at night reported Scraper's perfect good
behaviour. In the course of that evening's talk I
spoke of certain peculiarities I had noticed in the
formation of the country, and my new acquaintance
proposed that on an idle day of his next week
we should take a walk of exploration. When the
day came we started together, and I showed him
some of the curiosities of nature I had noticed.

Found and about Janenne the world is hollow.
The hills are mere bubbles, and the earth is

honeycombed with caverns. By the side of the
road which leads to Hussy a river accompanies
the traveller's steps, purling and singing, and
talking secrets (as shallow pebbly-bedded stream?
have a way of doing), and on a sudden the
traveller misses it. There, before him, is a riverbed,
wide, white, and stony, but where is the
river ? If he be a curious traveller he will retrace
his steps, and will find the stream racing
with some impetuosity towards a bend, where it
dwindles by apparent miracle into nothing. The
curious traveller, naturally growing more curious
than common in the presence of this phenomena,
will, at some risk to his neck, descend the bank,
and make inquiry into the reason for the disappearance
of the stream. He will see nothing
to account for it, but he will probably arrive at
the conclusion that there are fissures in the
river's bed, through which the water falls to feed
the subterranean stream, of which he is pretty
certain to have heard or read. If he will walk

back a mile, against the course of the stream, will
cross the main street of Janenne, strike the
Montcourtois Road there, and cross the river
bridge, he will see a cavern lipped by the flowing
water, and in that cavern, only a foot or so below
the level of the open-air stream, he will find its
subterranean continuation. It has worked back
upon itself in this secret way, by what strange
courses no man knows or can guess. But that
the stream is the same has been proved by a
device at once ingenious and simple. Colouring
matter of various sorts has from time to time
been thrown into the water at its place of disappearance,
and the tinted stream has poured,
hours and hours afterwards, through the cavern,
which is only a mile away, and stands so near
the earlier stream that in times of rain the waters
mingle there.

On the sides of the hills, and in the brushwood
which clothes their feet, one finds all manner
of holes and caves and crevices, some of them

very shallow, and some of them of unknown
depth. In the Bois de Janenne alone there are
four or five of them.

All this has strictly to do with the history of
Schwartz, as will by and by be seen.

"When heavy rains fall the river is so swollen
that the underground call upon its resources fails
to drain it, and it foams above the fissures in full
volume, so wild and deep that a passer-by would
never guess of the curious trick of nature which
is here being played. But the season being
exceptionally dry, I was able to show my find,
and from the spot of the stream's disappearance
I led my acquaintance to the cavern. Here
prowling about in a light-footed and adventurous
fashion the young Englishman found a hole in
the wall of stone, and, venturing into it, discovered
to his great delight a passage which
seemed to lead into the very entrails of the hill.
He proposed instantly to explore this, and I
having that morning purchased of the local

tobacconist a box of Italian vesta, each three or
four inches long, and calculated to burn for
several minutes, and having the same in my
pocket at the moment, we set out together on a
journey of adventure. The passage varied in
width from six to three feet, and in height from
eight feet upwards. The faint illumination of
the big wax vesta often failed to touch the roof.

The way was sometimes over ankle deep in a
thick mud, and sometimes strewn with fragments
of rock which had fallen from the roof ; but we
went on gaily until we came to a great slippery
boulder, which blocked the passage for some three
feet in height. My companion was in act to
clamber over this, when the light I carried pinched
my thumb and finger with sudden heat, and I
dropped it on to the ground. I struck another,
and found the youngster perched upon the
boulder.

Wait a moment,' said I, ' and let us see what
is beyond. There may be a deepest hole there.'

We leaned over, and could see nothing. My
companion got down from the boulder with a
grave look.

1 1 was just going to jump when you spoke,'
he said. ' Lucky I didn't. I wonder how deep it
is?'

"We hunted about for a stone, and by and by
found one about the size of a man's head. This
the youngster tossed over the boulder into the
darkness, and we stood looking at each other, by
the little clear-burning light of the wax match.
I do not know how long we stood there, for time
has a knack of magnifying itself beyond belief
in such conditions, but it was long, long before
an awful hollow boom came rolling to our ears
from the depth. We turned without a word,
and stumbled back towards the daylight, and when
we reached it I looked at the young Englishman
and saw that all the roses had faded from his
healthy young cheeks, and that he was as gray
as ashes.

I was going to jump when you spoke he
said. ' Precious lucky for me I didn't.'

I congratulated him very heartily on not having
jumped, and our search for natural wonders
being ended we went back to the hotel. "We
made inquiry there — at first in vain — about this
inner cavern, but at last we came across the
Garde Champetre of the district, who told us that
the depth was unknown. He and some of his
friends had had the curiosity to try to measure
it, but they never had rope enough.

It befell on the morning of the next day that
I wandered out alone, and in the course of the
first score yards encountered Schwartz, who was
demonstrative of friendly civilities. I returned
his salutations, and he gave me to understand in
his own too-humble manner that he would like
to accompany me. I let him know that I should
be delighted by his society, and away we went
together. The ground was firm with last night's
frost and musical to the sabots of peasants and

the iron-shod feet of horses. The hills and fields
were covered with a powdery snow that threw
their grays into a dark relief, and the air was so
still that I could hear the bell-like tinkle of chisel
and stone from the quarry nearly a mile away.
We entered the Bois de Janenne together, and
wandered through its branchy solitudes by many
winding pathways. There is a main road running
through this wood, cut by order of the commune
for the pleasure of visitors, and the middle
of this road was white with a thin untrodden
snow. On either side this ribbon of white lay a
narrower ribbon of gold where the pines had shed
their yellow needles, and the overhanging boughs
had guarded them from the falling "snow. The
ground ivy was of all imaginable colours, but
only yielded its secrets on a close examination,
and did not call upon the eye like some of the
louder reds and yellows which still clung to the
trees. Here and there the fasain burned like a
flame with its vivid scarlet berries — chapeau de

cur the country people call them, though the
colour is a little too gay for less than a cardinal's
wearing. For the most part the undergrowth
was bare, and the branches were either purple or
of the tone of a ripe filbert, so that the atmosphere,
with the reflected dull golds and bluish-reds
and reddish-blues, was in a swimming maze like
that of a sunset distance, though the eye could
scarcely pierce twenty yards into the thick-grown
tangle.

Schwartz and I rambled along, now and then
exchanging a sign of friendly interest, and in a
while we left the main path and wandered where
we would. Suddenly Schwartz began to hunt
and sniff and bark on what I supposed to be the
recent trace of a rabbit or a hare, and I stood
still to watch him. He worried industriously
here and there until he disappeared behind a
clump of brushwood, and then I heard a sudden
York ! ' of unmistakable terror. After this
there was dead silence. I called, but there was

not even the rustle of a leaf in answer. I waited
a while and called again, but still no answer
came. Not in the least guessing what had befallen
the dog, I mounted the hillside and came
to the clump of bushes behind which he had disappeared.
There I found a hole some three feet
wide and two in height, a hole with sides of moist
earth, formed like an irregularly-shaped funnel,
and affording at its farther end little more than
room enough for a creature of Schwartz's size to
pass. At the narrow end the earth was freshly
disturbed.

I shouted down tins reversed trumpet of a
hole. I listened after every call. I explored
the place so far as I could with a six-foot wand
cut from a near tree. I heard no movement, no
whine of distress, and I touched nothing with the
wand except the roof of the cavern into which
poor Schwartz had fallen. At length I gave him
up for dead, remembering the adventure of the
day before, the terrible space of time which had

elapsed before the echo of the fallen boulder came
booming from the abyss, and thinking it as likely
as not that Schwartz had fallen to an equal
depth. When I got back to the hotel I told the
tale as well as I could, and one of the servants
took the news to Schwartz's master.

When once this lamentable accident had happened,
it became surprising to learn how frequently
its like had happened before. There was
scarcely a sportsman in the village who had not
his story of some such disappearance of a dog
whilst out shooting. The poor beast would become
excited in pursuit of game, would dash
headlong into a set of bushes and emerge no
more. Then a moment's examination would reveal
the fatal cave. I am certain that I heard a
good half-score of such histories. The cave, by
the way, was not always fatal, for I heard of cases
in which the dog had been known to find his
way out of the underground labyrinth, and return
home dreadfully thin and hungry, but otherwise

undamaged. These cases gave me some faint
hope for Schwartz, but as day after day went by
the hope faded, and I made up my mind that I
had seen the last of him. I was sorry to think
so, for he had been very much a friend and a
companion.

vol. I

It was curious to notice how that unquestioning
allegiance and admiration which the missing
Schwartz had been used to bestow on Lil was
now bestowed by her on the new-comer who
answered to the name of Scraper, and how in
answer to all her advances and endearments
Scraper remained scornful and unreceptive. One
knows a hundred poems and legends in which
this form of vengeance is taken upon the cruel
fair ; in which the proud lady who has scorned
the humble and faithful heart lives to be scorned
in turn. Scraper, probably unconscious of his
mission as avenger, fulfilled it none the less on
that account.

His master, being an Englishman, had the

common English reverence for the Sunday, and
would not shoot on that day, though by his conscientious
abstention he missed, undoubtedly, the
best battue the country-side afforded. We had a
brief discussion as to the morality and propriety
of the procession, and I pointed out to him that
notwithstanding the military element by which
it was so strongly marked, it was purely sacerdotal
in origin and pious in intent, but he merely replied
that as a form of religious exercise for a
Sunday it struck him as being jolly rum. He
added shortly afterwards that whether he looked
at it or not the coves would do it, and that he
therefore felt at liberty to watch them.

Scraper displayed the profoundest interest in
the business, and took upon himself the organisation
of the whole affair, barking with so much
authority, and careering about the cavalry squadron
with such untiring energy that he threw Lil's
efforts in that way into the shade, and in the
course of a mere half-hour had superseded her.

WtfVERBOT OF H1W0II

Then, just as Schwartz had been used, with every
evidence of faith, to follow Lil, regarding her as
the very mainspring of the military movement,
Lil followed Scraper. Mr. Herbert Spencer has
shown that, in spite of the apparent unreasonableness
of the fact, humbug and credulity are sworn
companions. The savage mystery man, who
knows what a humbug he himself is, is the first
to yield allegiance and faith to the abler humbug,
who has more tricks or bolder invention than he.
So, Lil's groundless pretensions of a week ago
did not seem in the least to prevent her from
being imposed upon by the groundless pretensions
of Scraper, much as one might have thought her
own career of imposture would have set her upon
her guard. She had caught that very fawning
method of appeal for a kind regard which had
once distinguished Schwartz, and it was obvious
that Scraper could make no claim to which she
would not be ready to give adhesion. It is in
the very nature of poetical justice that it satisfies

the emotions, and I was not displeased to see
affairs take this sudden turn, to view the hard
and despiteful heart thus humbled.

It was on a Friday that Schwartz's chase had
ended so disastrously. It was on the following
Sunday that Lil laid down the honours of command
at the feet of the new-comer. It was on
the Sunday following, the ninth day clear from
the date of the mischance, that the great event of
the seven years took place. My young acquaintance
had two or three days free of engagements,
and he spent these in watching the preparations
for the procession. He spoke French with a
fluency and purity which excited my envy, and
he spent most of his spare time among the village
people, who talked and thought and dreamed of
nothing but the procession. "Wherever he went
Scraper accompanied him, and wherever Scraper
went Lil was to be seen following in fascinated
admiration.

For a whole week the drum had known but

little rest. I never learned the purpose of the
proceeding, but every day and all day, from long
before daylight till long after dark, somebody
marched about the village and rattled unceasingly
upon the drum. It could not possibly have been
one man who did it all, for the energies of no one
man that ever lived could have been equal to the
task. Most of the time it was far away, and it
only made two daily promenades past the hotel,
but whenever I listened for it I could hear it,
beating the same unweary rataplan. Then at
intervals all day and every day, the big gun
boomed and the clarion blared until I used to
dream that I was back at Plena or the Shipka
Pass, and could not get my " copy " to London
and New York because Monsieur Dorn had filled
the Hussy Wood with Cossacks from Janenne.
It may be supposed that all this charivari was
but an evil thing for a man as much in need of
rest as I was, but I verily believe that the noise
and bustle of the preparations, though they robbed

Hie now and then of an hour of morning sleep,
were almost as useful to me as the idleness I enjoyed,
and the tranquil country air into which I
could drive or wander afoot whenever the fancy
for perfect quiet came upon me.

At last the great day dawned, and the great
event dawned earlier than the day. At five
o'clock the noise of drum and clarion began, and
the light of torches flared on the painted fronts
of houses — yellow and pink and blue — in the
quaint old village street. A little later a band
came by with shattering brass and booming drum,
and for an hour or so the whole place was in a ferment.
The cavalry came clattering into the Place,
the hoarse voice of Monsieur Dorn barked through
the orders which had by this time grown conventional,
and his squadron jingled for the last time
for seven years through the movements he had
taught them at the expense of so much time and
lung power. Then a strange foreboding sort of
quiet, an unnatural tranquillity, settled upon everything

and continued until near upon the hour often.
A long waggon drawn by four oxen excited,
by the freight it bore, a momentary curiosity, and
brought faces to doors and windows. The air
was keen to-day, and we were at the very season
of mid-winter, but in the waggon which the four
slow oxen dragged through the streets of Janenne
were a dozen lofty shrubs reaching to a height of
eight or nine feet at least, the which shrubs were
one mass of exotic-looking blossom. I discovered
later on that they were nothing more than a set
of young pines with artificial paper flowers attached
to every twig, but the effect as they went
down the wintry street in their clothing of gold
and rose and white with the live green of the fir
peeping through the wealth of bloom was quite
an astonishment in its way. These decorated
shrubs were set at the church porch, and seemed
to fill the whole of that part of the street with
colour and light.

When the procession came at last there was

one curious thing about it. Such a crowd of
people — for Janenne took part in it — that there
was scarcely anybody left to look at it. But
then the processionists had the pleasure of looking
at each other. The band came first, in blue
blouse and clean white trousers. Then came
the soldiery, a motley crew, with Monsieur Dorn
at their head; drawn sword in hand, and next to
him a personage who might laye been translated
clean from Ashley's — a gentleman in long hose,
with a flower on each shoe, and a hat of red
yelyet shaped like a bread tray, decorated with
prodigious coloured feathers, and a slashed doublet
gay with many knots of bright ribbon. Years
and years ago Janenne had a Count and a
chateau. The ruins of the chateau still kept gray
guard oyer the village street ; but there is not
even a ruin left of the old family. But in the
day when Our Lady of Lorette stayed the local
pestilence the existing Count of Janenne was
pious enough to ride in the promised procession ;

and for a century or so the magnate of the
village and its neighbourhood was never absent
from the; demonstration of thanksgiving. In a
while, however, the Counts of Janenne took to
wildish ways, and, leaving the home of their
ancestors, went away to Paris and led extravagant
lives there, gambling and drinking, and
squandering their substance in other and even
more foolish fashions, and at last there ceased to
be estates of Janenne to draw upon, or even
Counts of Janenne to draw. But before things
came to this pass the absentee Counts had always
sent a representative to join the procession to the
shrine of Our Lady of Lorette ; and it has come
about that the legend has clung in the popular
fancy even unto the present day. Somebody —
anybody — gets himself up in theatrical guise,
and rides at the head of the military forces,
between the first rank and the commander-in-chief,
as the representative of that extinct great
house. On this occasion it was a red-cheeked

shy young man, cousin to the chambermaid of
the Hotel des Postes, a peasant proprietor who
farmed, and still farms, some ten or a dozen
hectares of sour land on the road to Montcouitoia
The red-cheeked shy young man's female cousin
exchanged a red-cheeked, shame-faced, rustic grin
with him as he rode by, and the young man, in
imitation of Monsieur Dorn, made his horse
caracole, but being less versed in horsemanship
than the old gendarme, had to hold on ignominiously
by the mane in payment for his own
temerity.

Following the military came a long array of
little girls in white muslin, with sashes blue or
red. Half a dozen nuns kept watch over them,
pacing sombre in white head-dresses and black
gowns by the side of all that smiling troop of
glad hearts and childish faces. All the little
girls carried bannerets of bright colour, and all
went bareheaded, after the manner of the
district, where no woman, short of the highest

fashion, ever permits herself to wear hat or
bonnet, except when going to mass or upon a
railway journey. White childish locks, braided
and shining, red locks, brown locks, black locks,
with bright faces under all, went streaming by,
and then a solemn priest or two headed a
rambling host of lads with well-scrubbed cheeks
and clean collars, and decent raiment of church-going
Sunday black. Then came a flock of
young women in white muslin, very starched and
stiff, with blue bows and blue sashes. In front
of these two stalwart wenches bore a napping
banner, inscribed ' La Jeunesse de Janenne ' ; and
closing up the rank of Janenne's youth and
rustic beauty came half a dozen chosen damsels,
big limbed and strong, bearing on their shoulders
a huge waxen statue of Our Lady of Lorette, and
in her arms a crowned child, she herself being
crowned with glittering tinsel, and robed in a
glowing and diaphanous stuff, which only half
revealed the white satin and spangles of the

dress below it. Then a number of chubby-checked
little boys in semi ecclesiastical costume,
improvised — no doubt under clerical supervision
by careful hands at home. Each little boy
earned a fuming censer, and it was not difficult
to see that they were well pleased with themselves
and their office. After them came the
doyen in full ecclesiastical costume, a little tawdry
perhaps, for the village is but poor and with the
best heart in the world can only imitate the real
splendours from afar. Then following the doyen
(who, by the way, marched under a canopy like
the roof of an old-fashioned four-post bedstead)
came the male choir of the church, chanting a
musical service, which harmonised indifferently
with the strains of the military band in front.
Then the big gun, drawn by the two big
Flemish horses. Then Jacques, Jules, Andre,
Francois, Chariot, Pierre, Joseph, Jean, and all
the rest, in sabots, short trousers, and blue
blouses, marching bareheaded with reverent air,

and with them Julie, and Fine, and Nana, and
Adele, and other feminine relatives, all in their
Sunday best, and all devout in mien. Then, at
a little distance — the most astonishing and 
tail to all this village splendour and
devoutness — Schwartz.

Schwartz himself, but Schwartz so changed,
so lean, so woebegone, as hardly to be recognisable,
even to the eye of friendship. Of all his
diverse-raging hairs not one to assert itself, but
all plastered close with an oily sleekness by a
slimy clinging mud, the thin ribs showing plainly,
and the hinder part of the poor wretch's barrel a
mere hand-grasp. His very tail, which had used
to look like an irregular much-worn bottle-brush,
was thin and sleek like a rat's, and he tucked it
away as if he were ashamed of it. His feet
were clotted with red earth, and he walked as if
his head were a burden to him, he hung it so
mournfully and carried it so low.

My young English acquaintance, who, like

myself, had been watching the procession, had
posted himself a little farther down the road,
with Scraper near at hand. Near to him, employing
all the ingratiatory insinuating arts she
knew, and so absorbed in Scraper that she forgot
even to direct the procession, was Lil. To her,
fawning and whining in such an excess of feeble
joy as can be rarely known to dogs or man, came
the half-starved, half-drowned creature. I was
already half-way to Schwartz's rescue, with immediate
milk, to be followed by soap and water, in
my mind, but I stopped to see how Lil would
receive the returned companion of old days. It
is scarcely probable that dogs believe in ghosts,
and yet it would have been easy to fancy that
she saw in him at first some purely supernatural
apparition, she recoiled with so obvious a surprise
and terror when she first beheld him. The
wretched, propitiatory, humbly-ecstatic Schwartz
advanced, but she showed her gleaming teeth,
and growled aversion. He stopped stock-still,

and whined a little, and Lil responded furiously.
I took the returned wanderer up in both hands,
and carried him into the hotel scullery, and got
milk for him. He lapped it with tears running
down his muddy nose ; and when I had had him
washed and tucked away into an old railway rug,
beside a stove in the little room, he lay there
winking and blinking, and licked at his own
tears with an expression altogether brokenhearted.
I should have liked to have known
something of the history of his subterranean
wanderings, but that was only to be left to conjecture.
I bade him be of better cheer, and
went outside to wait for the return of the procession,
and to smoke a cigar in the open air,
and an hour later found that Schwartz had again
disappeared. This time, however, he had merely
gone home, and though for a day or two he was
quite an invalid, he was soon about the streets
again, completely rehabilitated.

And now I come to the relation of the one

tragic fact which seemed to me to make this
simple history worth writing. I hope that
nobody will regard it as an invention, or will
suppose that I am trading upon their sympathies
on false pretences.

On the day of the young Englishman's departure
I accompanied him to the railway station.
Lil came down in attendance upon Scraper, and
barked fiercely at the departing train which bore
Mm away. Schwartz followed in humble pursuit
of Lil, who, so far as I could understand affairs,
had never forgiven him for intruding himself in so
unpresentable a guise, and claiming acquaintance
whilst she was engaged in conversation with a
swell like Scraper. From that hour she had
refused to hold the slightest communion with
him, showing her teeth and growling in the
cruellest way whenever he approached her. In
spite of this, Schwartz seemed to be persuaded
that, in the absence of his rival, he still stood
a chance, and day after day he followed her

VOL. I F

with the old fawning humbleness, and day after
day she received him with the same anger and
disdain. ;

On a certain Wednesday afternoon the air
was wonderfully mild and dry. It was early in
January, but the weather was so fine that I had
not even need of an overcoat, as I sat in the
sunshine smoking and reading. I had seen
Monsieur Dorn enter the opposite house, taking
Lil with him, and Schwartz had settled himself
on the doorstep, as usual, to await her exit. I
called him to me, and he crossed over, but soon
returned and resumed his place, and sat there
waiting still. After a considerable time the door
opened, and Monsieur Dorn and Lil emerged
together. I looked up at that moment, and saw
Lil make a savage dart at her too-persistent
worshipper. Monsieur Dorn beat them apart,
but Schwartz had attempted no resistance. He
was rather badly bitten, and when I picked him
up the tears were running fast down his nose,

and he was feebly licking at them, and whining
to himself in a way which indicated the extremest
weakness of spirit. I sat down with him, and
comforted the poor - hearted creature, and he
seemed grateful, for he licked my hand repeatedly,
but he did not cease to whine and
weep.

By and by I heard, though I did not notice
it at the time, the warning whistle of the
approaching train. The station is little more
than a stone's throw from the hotel. Schwartz
made a leap, licked my face, jumped from the
bench, and ambled away. I never saw him
alive again, for, on the testimony of the signalman,
he ran down to the railway line, stretched
himself upon one of the rails, and, in spite of a
stone the man threw at him when the train
had advanced dangerously near to him, he
held his place until the wheels passed over his
body.

His remains were buried in his master's

back garden. I know that he knew full well
what he was doing when he stretched himself
upon the rail, and I know that his feeble and
affectionate heart was broken before he did
it.

YOUNG ME. BARTER'S REPENTANCE

I

Mr. Bommaney was a British merchant of the
highest rectitude and the most spotless reputation.
He traded still under the name of Bommaney,
Wake, and Co., though Waite had been long since
dead, and the Company had gone out of existence
in Ms father's time. The old offices, cramped
and inconvenient, in which the firm had begun
life eighty years before, were still good enough for
Mr. Bommaney, and they had an air of solid
respectability which newer and flashed places
lacked. The building of which they formed a part
stood in Comforter's Alley, opposite the Church
of St. Mildred, and the hum of the City's traffic

scarcely sounded in that retired and quiet
locality.

Mr. Bommaney himself was a man of sixty,
hale and hearty, with a rosy face and white
whiskers. He was a broad-shouldered man, inclining
to be portly, and he was currently accepted
as a man of an indomitable will. There
was no particular reason for the popular belief in
his determination apart from the fact that it was
a favourite boast of his that nothing ever got him
down. On all occasions and in all companies he was
wont to declare that no conceivable misfortune
could really break a man of spirit. He confessed
to a pitying sympathy for mealy-willed people
(and everybody knew that Bommaney, in spite of
his own strength of mind, was one of the kindliest
creatures in the world) ; but, whenever he met a
man in trouble, he would clip him by the shoulder,
and would say, in his own hearty fashion, ' You
must look the thing in the face, my boy. Look it in
the face. I'd never let anything break me down.'

Since his reputation for fortitude was as solid
and as old-fashioned amongst the people who
knew him as his business character itself, it
would have come as something of a shock upon
any of his friends if he could but have been seen
by them, or any credible man amongst them, on
a certain afternoon in the April of 1880. He
had locked himself in his own room, and, sitting
there in a big chair before a business-like desk,
with a great number of docketed papers in pigeon-holes,
and a disordered mass of papers strewn
before him, the determined Mr. Bommaney, the
decided Mr. Bommaney, the Mr. Bommaney whom
no misfortune could subdue, was crying, very
feebly and quietly, and was mopping his rosy
cheeks, and blowing his nose in an utter and
restraining abandonment to trouble.

There was another fact which would have
come upon his friends with an equal shock of
surprise if they could but have had it brought
home to them. The man who sat unaffectedly

crying in the big chair in helpless contemplation
of the scattered papers was a hopeless bankrupt,
and had ;seen himself sliding towards bankruptcy
for years. When men who knew him wanted business
advice, they went to him by preference, and
nobody came away empty. He knew the City
and its intricacies like a book. He knew who
was safe and who was shaky, as if by a kind of
instinct, and he knew where and when to invest,
and where and when not to invest, as few men
did. ' You can't get at me,' he would say ; for,
old-fashioned as he was, he used a little of the
new-fashioned slang to give spice and vigour to
his conversation. ' There isn't a move on the
board that I don't know.' He advised his friends
excellently, and there were perhaps half a score
of fairly well-to-do speculative people who had to
thank him, and him alone, for the comfort they
lived in and the consideration they enjoyed. He
had been wise for others all his life, and in his
own interests he had always acted like a greenhorn.

He talked loudly, he spent freely, he paid
his way, he expressed the soundest business
maxims, and was as shrewd in detail as he was
wise in generalities, and these things made a
natural reputation for him : whilst he traded for
years at the expense of his capital, and went
steadily and surely towards the bottomless gulf of
insolvency. Now he was on the very verge of it,
and tomorrow he would be in it. It lent a
feeble sting to his sufferings to know how surprised
people would be, and how completely men
would find him out.

He had not very profoundly involved other
people in his own ruin, but he had gone a little
farther than a man altogether brave, and honourable,
and clear-sighted would have ventured, and
he knew that some would suffer with him. He
might have made arrangements to go a little
farther still if he had been courageous, clear-sighted,
and dishonest, and might have held his
head up for another matter too, perhaps. . But he

had lacked the nerve for that, and had never consciously
been a rogue. He felt even now a pride
of honesty. He had been unfortunate, and
his creditors would have everything — everything.


He thanked God that Phil's mother had tied
her money on her only son, and that the boy at
least had enough to begin the world with. How
should he face Phil when he came home again ?
How should he send the news to him ? The lad
was away enjoying himself, travelling all round
the world with a wandering Baronet, who owned
a yacht and had an unappeasable taste for the
destruction of big game. He would have to surrender
his fashionable and titled acquaintance
now, poor fellow, and begin the world with
a disgraced and broken frame to be a drag
and hindrance to him. The more Mr.
Bommaney thought of these things, the more
unrestrainedly he cried ; and the more he cried,
the less he felt able or inclined to control his tears.

He wept almost silently, only an occasional
sniff betraying his emotion to his ear. He had
always held his head so high, and had been so
believed in. It was very bitter.

Whilst he was in the midst of this childish
abandonment to his grief a set of knuckles softly
and hesitatingly tapped the door from without,
and directly afterwards a hand made a tentative
respectful sort of attempt upon the handle.

1 Who's there ? ' cried Mr. Bommaney, steadying
his voice as best he could.

'A gentleman to see you, sir,' answered a
smooth voice outside.

Mr. Bommaney pushed back his chair, rose to
his feet, and retiring to a smaller room consulted
a little square looking-glass which hung upon the
wall above his washing-stand. His blue eyes
were very tearful and a little swollen, his cheeks
and nose looked as if they had been scalded.

Wait a moment,' he said aloud, and his voice
betrayed him by a break. He blushed and

trembled, thinking that Mr. Hornettt, his confidential
clerk, would know how he was breaking
down, and would speak of his want of courage
and self - command hereafter. The reflection
nerved him somewhat, and he sluiced his face
with water, making a little unnecessary noise of
splashing to tell the listener how he was engaged.
He polished his face with the towel, and, consulting
the mirror again, thought he looked a
little better. Then he re-entered his business
room, and turning the key in the lock opened the
door slightly, a mere inch or two.

Who is it ? '

1 A Mr. Brown, sir,' said the smooth voice outside.
The clerk insinuated a card through the
space between the door and door-jamb, and Mr.
Bommaney took it from his fingers without
revealing himself. He had some difficulty in
making out its inscription, for his eyes were
newly tearful, and, whilst he peered at it, a reflex
of his late emotions brought a sniffling sob again.

He was freshly ashamed at this, and said
hastily,

'Five minutes' time. I will ring when I am
ready. Ask the gentleman to wait.'

Mr. James Hornettt softly closed the door, and
stood on the landing with long lean fingers scraping
at his lantern jaws. He was a little man,
short of stature, and sparely built. His skin was
veal in complexion, and he had wiry hair of a
russet-red. Even when he was clean shaven his
fingers rasped upon his hollow cheeks with a
faint sound. His nose and chin were long and
pointed, and his manner was meek and self-effacing
even when he was alone. There was a
tinge of wonder in his face, at war with an
habitual smile, in which his eyes had no part.
1 Something wrong ? ' he said, under his breath.
He went creeping softly down the stairs. ' Something
wrong ? Mr. Bommaney in tears ? Mr.
Bommaney ! '

Could anything have happened to Mr. Phil ?

That was the only thing Mr. Hornettt could think
of as being likely to affect his employer in that way.
Now ; Mr. Hornettt had been in his present
employ for thirty years, man and boy, and he was
human. Therefore, when at the expiration of a
little more than five minutes' time Mr. Bomb
bell rang, he himself ushered the visitor
upstairs, and in place of retiring to his own pew
below stairs, lingered in a desert little apartment
rarely used, and then stole out upon the landing
and listened. He was the more prompted to this
because the visitor, who had a bucolic hearty
aspect, and was very talkative, had told him
downstairs that Mr. Bommaney and himself were
old friends and schoolfellows, and had been in
each other's confidence for years.

'I am afraid, sir,' Mr. Hornettt had said,
when the visitor first presented himself,
that Mr. Bommaney may not be able to
see you at present. He gave orders not to be
disturbed.'

1 Not see me ? ' said the visitor with a laugh.
1 I'll engage he will.' And then followed the
statement about his old acquaintanceship with
Mr. Hornettt's employer.

If there were anything to be told at all, it
seemed not unlikely that this visitor might be the
recipient of the intelligence, and Mr. Hornettt
lingered to find if haply he might overhear. He
heard nothing that enlightened him as to the
reasons for his employer's disturbance, but heard
most that passed between the two.

Bommaney had succeeded in composing himself
and in washing away the traces of his tears.
Then he had taken a stiffish dose of brandy and
water, and was something like his own man
again. He received his visitor cordially, and in
his anxiety not to seem low-spirited was a little
more boisterous than common.

I'm busy, you see,' he said, waving a hand at
the papers scattered on the desk, and keeping up
the farce of prosperous merchandise to the last,

VOL. I G

but I can spare you a minute or two, old man.
What brings you up to town ? '

'I've come here to settle said the visitor. He
was a florid man with crisp black hair with a
hint of gray in it, and he was a countryman from
head to heel. He seemed a little disposed to
flaunt his bucolics upon the town, his hat, his
necktie, his boots and gaiters, were of so countrified
a fashion, and yet he looked somehow more
of a gentleman than Bommaney.

1 Yes,' he said, ' I've come to settle.' He
rubbed his hands and laughed here, not because
there was anything humorous and amusing in his
thoughts, but out of sheer health and jollity of
nature. Bommaney, still distrustful of his own
aspect, and afraid of being observed, sat opposite
to him with bent head and fidgeted with his
papers, blindly pretending to arrange them.

1 To settle he said absently. Then, rousing
himself with an effort, ' I thought you hated
London ? '

Ah, my boy said his visitor, ' when you're
in the shafts with a whip behind you, you've got
to go where you are driven."

'Yes said Bommaney mechanically, 'that is
so. That is so.'

The visitor was laughing and rubbing his
hands again in perfect happiness and self-contentment,
and had no eye for Bommaney's abstraction.

1 Yes he said, ' it's Patty's doing. I've sold
up every stick and stone, and I've taken a house
in Gower Street. Do you know, Bommaney/ he
added, with an air and voice suddenly serious
and confidential, ' the country's going to the devil.
Land's sinking in value every year. I've been
farming at a growing loss these six years, and
rents don't come in as they used to do. I got
my chance and I took it. Lord Bellamy wanted
to join the Mount Royal and the three estates.
My little bit o' land lay between 'em, and I sold
it to him. Sold it, too, begad, as well as I could
have done half a dozen years ago.'

Then he laughed once more with great heartiness,
and unbuttoning his overcoat, groped in an
inner pocket. After a struggle, in the course of
which he grew very red in the face, he drew forth
a pocket-book of unusual dimensions, and slapped
it on the desk so vigorously that his companion
started.

'. I got a tip the other day,' he went on ; ' that
old bank at Mount Royal, Fellowes and Fellowes,
is going to crack up, my boy. There's something
very queer in the commercial atmosphere just
now, Bommaney. There are lots of old-fashioned
solid people breaking up.'

To Bommaney's uneasy fancy there was in his
visitor's voice an accent which sounded personal.

1 1 — I hope not,' he answered, somewhat

feebly, ' so much depends ' (he tried hard to

rally himself), ' so much depends upon a spirit of
commercial confidence.'

Exactly,' cried the visitor, laying hands upon
the pocket-book and opening it. f I went to the

bank and saw young Fellowes myself. " Look
here, Fellowes," I told him, " I want my daughter's
money." He stuck to it, sir ; like a dog holding
on to a bone. He growled about it, and he
whined about it, said it wasn't fair to withdraw
the money on short notice. Said I couldn't do
better with it anywhere, and at last I told him,
Look here, Fellowes, I shall begin to think by
and by there's something wrong." He went as
red as a turkey-cock, begad, and drew a note on
their London agent like a lord, and here I am
with the money. Eight thousand pounds.'

By this time he had drawn a bundle of banknotes
from the pocket-book, and now sat flicking
the edges of the notes with the tips of his
great broad fingers. Bommaney heard the crisp
music, and looked up with a momentary glance
of hunger in his eyes.

'That's Patty's little private handful,' the
visitor continued, opening the packet of notes,
and smoothing it upon his knee. ' Eighty notes

of a hundred. Pretty little handful, isn't it ?
They don't look he added, with his head reflectively
on ;one side and his eyebrows raised a little,
they don't look as they'd buy as much as they
will.'

Bommaney tried to find a commonplace word
by answer, and an inaudible something died drily
in his throat. When his companion began to
speak again, the bankrupt merchant wondered
that he made no comment on his ghastly face —
he knew his face was ghastly — or his shaking
hands. There was an intuition in his mind so
strong and clear that he trembled at its prophecy.


Patty,' said the visitor, ' will have everything
in time, and a pretty good handful, too. But
she's bent on being independent, and she wants
to have her own money in her own hands. She
pretends it's all because she wants to pay her
milliner's bills, and that kind of thing, herself;
but I know better. The fact is ' — he lowered

his voice and chuckled — ' the fact is, she doesn't
want me to know how much she spends in charity.
You look here, Bornnianey' — the merchant's
heart seemed to stand still, and then to beat so
wild an alarum that he wondered the other did
not hear it. The intuition multiplied in strength.
He heard beforehand the spoken words, the very
tones which marked them. ' You're a safe man,
you're a smart man. I suppose there isn't anybody
in London who can lay out money to more
advantage than you can. I know it's a great
favour to ask, but I think you'll do it for Patty's
sake and mine, if I do ask you. Take this, and
invest it for her. "Will you, now ? '

He stood up with the bundle of notes outstretched
in his hand. The merchant rose and
accepted it, and looked him, with a sudden curious
calm and steadiness, straight in the face.

Mr. Bommaney was alone again, and if it had not
been for the actual presence of the bundle of
bank-notes upon the table, he could well have
thought that the whole episode had been no more
than a dreadful and disturbing dream. It was
very hard, he thought complainingly, that a man
should come and put so horrible a temptation in
his way. He would not yield to it — of course
he would not yield to it. He had been an honest
and honourable man all his life long, and had
never so much as felt a monetary temptation
until now. It was humiliating to feel it now — it
was horrible to have his fingers itching for another
man's money, and his heart coveting it, and
his brain, in spite of himself, devising countless

means of use for it. It was quite unbearable to
know that the money might tide him over his
troubles and land him in prosperity again, if he
could only dare to use it, and risk engulfing it
with the lost wreckage of his own fortunes.

But no, no, no. He had never meant to use
it. His only reason for accepting it had been
that he had not found the courage to declare his
true position to his old friend and school companion.
Perhaps, he told himself (trying to
silence and cajole that inward monitor and accuser
who would not be silenced or cajoled), perhaps
if Brown had been less confident and truthful —
if he had had less faith in his old companion's
powers as a man of business — it would have
come easier to tell the truth. And how futile a
thing it was to stave off discovery for a single day !
How doubly ashamed he would have to feel after
that poor pretences responsible solidity ! If he had
only been disposed to be tempted at all — here surely
was an added reason for yielding to temptation.

Obviously the first, and, indeed, the only thing
to be done, was to bank this money in Brown's
name, and so have done with it ; and yet any
feeling of haste in that respect would seem to
imply a fear of temptation, which he was, of
course, quite resolute not to feel. He was not
going any more to run away from his own suspicion
of himself than he would have run from
another man's. So, in and out, and up and down,
contradicting himself at every turning with an
underlying surety in his mind so fast rooted and
so dreadful that he did not dare to look at it.

When the adieux were being said between the
old friends, Mr. James Hornettt had slid noiselessly
downstairs, his mind inflated by pride.
He was not proud of having played the eavesdropper,
for even in Mr. Hornettt's economy of
things, that was an act to be proud of; but he
was very proud, indeed, to be associated with a
gentleman so magnificently respected as Mr. Bomb
There were not so very many people, he

told himself, even in the City of London, which
was full of wealth and probity, into whose hands
so large a sum would be placed with so little a
sense of the necessity of precaution. He felt as
if he himself had been treated in this majestic
manner, and the feeling warmed his heart. He
bowed Mr. Brown from the office door with an
empressement which he feared a moment later
might almost have betrayed him, and he went
about his duties for the rest of the day in a mood
of unusual contentment. The earlier memory of
his employer's disturbance crossed him sometimes,
and always excited his curiosity ; but the later
feeling dominated him. He was delighted by his
association with a concern so eminently respectable
as that of Bommaney, waite, and Co.

Meanwhile Mr. Hornettt's employer, with that
dreadful rooted secret in his mind, which he did
not dare to look at, sat alone, looking with staring
eyes before him, and drumming in a regular
tune upon the topmost note of the terrible little

pile. He had locked the notes away before
Brown's departure, but they had seemed to draw
him to the safe with almost a physical compulsion,
and he had brought them out again to look
at them, to handle them, to count them, to resolve
in his own mind that he did not hanker after
them, and was honourable to the core. It was
so new a thing to be tempted, that at times his
own self-deception was made easy to him. It
did not occur to him to reflect that the need and
the means had never so presented themselves together
until now, or that his lifelong honour had
depended upon their absence.

When he had sat in silence for a while he
awoke to the fact that the interview had been
nothing but a succession of shocks to him, and
that he was bodily exhausted. He rose, and,
walking feebly to the inner room, applied himself
anew to the brandy bottle he kept there. He
had gone much too often to that deceptive solace
lately, and he knew it*; but each successive visit

carried its own excuses with it, and it had never
in any individual instance been worth while to
resist a habit which it was always easy to condemn
in the main.

The brandy enlightened him and opened new
sluices of emotion. Perhaps for the moment he
was a better man because of it. He seemed to
wake to a more determined sense of the enormity
of the temptation which lay before him. He
thought of his own son, and a shadow took him
from head to foot as, in a brandished nervous
vision, he beheld some shadowy supposititious
creature in the act of telling the tale to Phil.
The vice of drink has had the creation of many
other vices laid to its charge, but for once in the
world's history the obfuscated vision was clearer
than the natural, and Philip drunk a better man,
and a more righteous and honourable, than Philip
sober.

At bottom, Philip Bomrnaney knew himself
too well to be at all sure that this phase of feeling

would endure with him ; and in a half-conscious
dread of the return of that baser self,
whose first appearance in his history had so
affrighted him, he hurriedly attired himself for
out-of-doors, crammed the bundle of notes into an
inner pocket of his overcoat, and, after a final
appeal to the decanter, left his room with a somewhat
hysteric sense of courage and self-approval.
He had been tempted — he was ready to recognise
that the temptation was over, that he had well-nigh
succumbed to it — but he had triumphed !
He was a man again. He had been weighed in
the balances and not found wanting. There were
some tears in his eyes compounded of brandy and
nerves and affections and remorse as he hurried
into the street. Phil should never be ashamed of
his father. Old Brown, who had trusted him
like a brother, should never learn to shun and
hate him. He had to go under — the thing was
inevitable, unescapable, but he would at least go
under like a man. His heart beat to the tune of

the ' Conquering Hero,' where it might have beat
to the ' Rogue's March but for that friendly
nip of brandy and the all-covering mercies of
Heaven.

Quickly as his resolution had been taken, he
had fully arranged for the details of the task
which lay before him. With the notes he had
thrust into his pocket a little handful of business
papers involving a knotty and delicate point of
business, and he intended that the discussion of
the point they raised should act as the prelude to
the disclosure and the restitution he desired to
make. He could not, even in his new-found
heroism, and with whatever hysteric hardihood he
was prepared to meet the stroke of fate, he could
not as yet encounter Brown, and lay bare before him
the plot of the melancholy farce he had played
an hour ago. But there was an old friend of his,
and an old friend of Brown's into the bargain, a
solicitor, keen as a needle and kindly as sunshine,
one Barter, whose business chambers were in

Gable Inn, and who was of all men the man
he could confide in with least shame and best
hope of; help. He hailed a cab, and bade the
driver drive his fastest. Gable Inn lay tranquil,
the afternoon shadows already settling deeper on
the little quadrangle than on the broad and roaring
thoroughfare without. There was no light in
the windows of the rooms in which Messrs. Fellowship,
Freemantle, and Barter had done business
and received their clients fifty years ago, and in
which the sole surviving member of the firm still
maintained its old - established reputation for
honour and astuteness.

Bommaney was chilled by the silence and
darkness of the rooms, and he shivered to seethe
temptation he had conquered looming again
before him. He knocked loudly with a trembling
hand, and the noise of iron on iron went rolling and
echoing up the staircase and came back in a hollow,
lonely, sounding murmur from the rooms within.
His heart sank, and a horrible fear of himself

got hold of him. He had actually conquered,
and here was the fight to be fought over again
with almost a certainty of defeat at the end of it.
Indeed, the defeat in that bare moment of time
had grown so certain, that he was conscious of a
distinct state of disappointment when a sudden
footstep within the rooms answered ' his noisy
summons.

The door opened, and a young man stood
before him, peering at him with half-closed uncertain
eyes through the dark. He was a young
man of the fleshly school, something too stout for
his years, very pallid, and more than commonly
personable, with a fine broad forehead, fine frank
eyes, and features modelled with an engaging
regularity. "When he recognised his visitor his
pale and handsome face glittered with a sudden
smile of welcome, teeth and eyes gleaming quite
brightly, and the whole face lighting up in the
pleasantness and friendliest fashion conceivable.

This agreeable expression faded into one of
VOL. I H

almost mechanical dolor, and the personable
young man shook hands with Mr. Bommaney
sadly, and sighed as if he suddenly recalled an
idea that sighing was a duty.

Come in, Mr. Bommaney,' he said. ' Come
in, sir. I have sent home all the clerks, and
was just about to lock up for the night. To
what do I owe the pleasure of this visit ? Let
me light the gas.'

Bommaney, the door being closed behind him,
stumbled along the darkened passage after the
more assured and accustomed steps of young Mr.
Barter, and the inner office being gained, and the
gas being lighted, allowed himself to be motioned
to a chair. What with having been too much
agitated by the contemplation of his troubles to
be able to eat at all that day, and what with the
fight he had had with his temptations, and the
too frequent applications he had made to the
brandy, it happened that for the moment he was
by no means certain of his purpose. He sat fora

little while wondering rather hazily what had
brought him there. As often happens with
absent-minded people, his hands remembered
what had been required of them before his brain
began to act again, and by and by the fact that
he had unbuttoned his overcoat, and had taken a
bundle of papers from his pocket, recalled him to
his purpose.

1 1 wanted,' he said, emerging from his haze,
and holding the bundle of papers nervously in
both hands, ' I wanted to see your father upon
very special and urgent business.'

1 My father ? ' the young man answered, with
a look and accent of pained surprise. ' Do you
mean to say, sir, that you haven't heard the
news ? '

1 The news ? ' cried Bommaney, feeling blindly
as if some new misfortune threatened him.
What news ? '

My father, sir,' said young Mr. Barter, with
a certain blending of professional airs, something

of a legal impress mingled with something of the
manner of a medical man conveying mournful
intelligence to the relatives of a patient, 'my
father, sir, was struck down by an omnibus in
the street this morning. He is terribly injured,
and not expected to recover.'

1 God bless my soul ! ' Bommaney cried out.
His chin fell upon his breast, and his eyes stared
at the floor, seeing nothing. He felt like a man
upon a raft, who sees the bindings of the frail
thing break apart. Shipwrecked already, and
now the last hope gone ! He hardly knew, if he
could have asked himself the question clearly,
why he so particularly desired to see Barter. He
hardly knew what Barter could have done for
him, except to listen to his troubles and take
charge of the eight thousand pounds which
tempted him, and yet the disappointment seemed
as heavy and as hard to bear as anything he had
hitherto endured. He sat staring forlornly before
him, with tears in his eyes, and young Mr. Barter,

in much astonishment at his susceptibility
and tenderness, sat watching him. Something
slid from Bommaney's hands with a rustle, and
dropped upon the floor. Young Mr. Barter
made a mere hint or beginning of a movement,
as if he would have picked it up for him.
Bommaney made no movement at all, but stared
before him with his blue-gray eyes filling more
and more with tears, until two or three brimmed
over and trickled down his cheeks. He said,
God bless my soul ! ' once more, mechanically,
and restored what remained of his bundle of
papers to his pocket. Young Mr. Barter looked
with one swift and vivid glance from the fallen
bundle to his guest's face, then back again.
Bommaney rose from his seat, buttoned his overcoat
with awkward and lingering fingers, and put
on his hat. He was evidently unconscious of
his own tears, and made no attempt to disguise
them, or to wipe them away. He said, ' God
bless my soul ! ' a third time, and then, shaking

young Mr. Barter by the hand, murmured that
he was sorry, very sorry, and so went stupidly
away. Young Mr. Barter accompanied him to
the door, casting a strange backward glance at
the papers as he left the room, and was curiously
voluble in his dismissal of his visitor. Anything
he could do — Mr. Bommaney might rest perfectly
assured — the clerks would be back tomorrow
in any case — he would advise Mr. Bomb
of his father's condition by that night's
post — he himself was naturally most profoundly
anxious. In this wise he talked Bommaney
from the chambers, and when once he had closed
the door behind him, went back along the dark
little corridor with an unnecessarily catlike tread.
He could hardly have been other than certain
that he was alone, yet when he reached the inner
room he looked about him with a keen quick
darting suspicion, and for half a minute ignored
the fallen papers on the floor.

Dear me ! ' he said, when at length he suffered

his eves to rest upon them. ' What can
that be ? How did that come here ? '

He stooped, picked up the papers, laid them
upon his desk, and smoothed them out, making a
fold lengthways to counteract the creases into
which they had already fallen. He saw a crisp
clean Bank of England note for a hundred pounds,
and, lifting it, found another. Then he lifted
half the bundle, and, finding a note of the same
value, gave an inward gasp, and expelled his
breath slowly after it. Then he looked at the
last note of all, and sat down with the whole
bundle in his hands. His pale and fleshy
features had taken an unusual colour, and his
breathing was a good deal disturbed. A watcher
might have guessed that he was profoundly
agitated from the swift intermittent rustle the
paper made in his hands. He seemed to sit as
steady as a rock, and yet the crisp paper rustled
noisily.

Mr. Brown's bank-notes had been a fruitful

source of emotion that day already, and, in Bomb
mind at least, had raised very dreadful
doubts and perplexities. There were doubts and
perplexities in the mind of young Mr. Barter, but
they were altogether of another order. Young
Mr. Barter was perfectly aware that he was being
tempted, and felt that, in its way, the temptation
was a kind of godsend. He even said as much
in a low murmur to himself. His perplexities
related to other things than the fear of any fall
from honour. Bommaney had evidently been
very queer. Bommaney had. been horribly cut
up about something, even before he heard the
news the young solicitor had to give him. But
was he so disturbed as to be likely to forget
where he had last secured so considerable a sum
of money ? This mental inquiry naturally set
young Mr. Barter to work to discover how considerable
the sum of money actually was. He
laid the notes upon the table, and tried to wet
his thumb upon his lips. There was no moisture

there, and his mouth was as dry as touchwood.
He drank a little water, and then began to count
the notes. He made them eighty-one at first ;
and then, recounting, made them seventy-nine.
Counting them a third time, he made them
eighty.

1 Damn it all ! ' said young Mr. Barter, ' can't
I count ? I suppose the old buffer will come
back for them.' He tried a fourth time, and
confirmed his third counting. ' They'll get
stopped at the Bank,' he said. ' They'll be no
use to anybody.' He sat for a while thinking,
with his eyes half-closed, drumming out a tune
upon the table "with the tips of his fat white
fingers, then he folded the notes with great precision
and delicacy, put them into his pocket,
found his hat, overcoat, and walking-stick, and
made ready for the streets. In the quiet of these
legal chambers many chance noises from without
had from time to time been clearly audible. He
heard now a hurrying step upon the pavement of

the quadrangle, and, with a palpitation at the
heart, he moved swiftly to put out the light, and
listened The step stumbled at the entrance
to the staircase, at the foot of which the outer
door stood closed. Young Mr. Barter's heart
beat, if possible, faster than before ; and the veins
in his head so throbbed, that only the confining
rim of his hat seemed to keep his head itself
from bursting. There came an eager summons
at the door, an imperative rapping with the head
of a stout walking-stick. He set his teeth, and,
drawing back his lips with a horrible smile in
the dark, breathed noiselessly. The rapping
grew more and more imperative and urgent, and
then came a preternatural silence, with an undercurrent
of distant sound in it, and the sudden
blare of a cornet in the street, which sounded to
his nerves like the trumpet ois the herald of the
day of judgment. He heard the hurrying feet
plunge down the steps again, and cross the
quadrangle, and listened until their sound merged

into the dull noises of the London night. He
stood in the dark after this for what seemed a
long time, learning that his features twitched, and
teaching himself to control them. Then he left
his chambers with great secrecy, and broke into a
cold sweat to think, as he stood half through the
doorway, how narrowly he had escaped from
slamming the door behind him This was an act
which might have been suicidal in its stupidity ;
for to give any sign of his presence there after
that thundering summons at the door would have
been to betray himself beyond redemption. He
inserted his latch-key noiselessly, and, crouching
to escape imagined observers, drew the door gently
after him, and turned the key slowly in the lock.
As he did this he heard a footstep and a cough
together close at hand, and, turning with a start,
beheld a pale and slender man of brief stature,
who scraped his lantern jaws with apologetic
thumb and finger, and looking at him with a
startled meekness, as if he would fain propitiate

anger for a possible intrusion, sidled to the foot
of the stairs, mounted the stairway with a backward
glance and a second cough of apology, and
so disappeared.

Young Mr. Barter, with his nerves already
shaken by this small episode, walked into
the main thoroughfare and merged with the
crowd, bearing Mr. Bommaney's eight thousand
pounds with him. When he had walked for a
while he hailed a cab, and was driven home. He
had, or prided himself on having, an exceptional
eye for horseflesh, but it was not his faculty in
this direction which had led him to choose a cab
horsed by a brute of unusual symmetry and
swiftness. This was an accident, but, like other
accidents in this perplexed world, it served its
purpose. It landed him at the paternal door in
Harley Street almost at the instant at which
Bommaney arrived there in pursuit of him.

Now, although young Mr. Barter had not
calculated on meeting Bommaney so soon, and

although the meeting was naturally something of
a shock to him, he had already schooled himself
for interview and inquiry. He went a little
paler than common as he grasped his father's old
friend by the hand for the third time that evening,
and trembled ever so little as he spoke.

1 1 half expected to find you here he said.
•' I could see how moved you were by the news
of my father's illness.' The door stood open, and
the old-fashioned man-servant within had been in
the act of closing it upon Bommaney's retreating-figure
when cab number two had driven up, and
the young master of the house had alighted from it.
1 Is the news worse or better ? ' He laid both hands
upon Bommaney's arms as he put this question.

The elderly servitor, who had never had
reason given to him to believe that young Air.
Barter was above the reasonable attached to his
father, was a little surprised to see the young
man so moved. He drew the door gently after
him, and came out upon the steps.

I'm afraid, Mr. John he murmured sympathetically,
'that it's practically all over, sir. The
poor gentleman's quite unconscious, and the
doctor don't expect him to last till morning.'

Young Mr. Barter's mind was active, and
accustomed to rapid movement. He knew at
once that the old servant read the signs of disturbance
in his face and manner, and how far he
misread them. So, to insure the misreading, he
took out his handkerchief, and groaned at this
melancholy intelligence.

I ,' began Bommaney, stammering and

speaking a little thickly, ' I didn't come to ask
about your father.' Young Barter's heart at this,
though he was perfectly prepared for it, began to
beat like a sledge-hammer. ' I've had a dreadful
loss. I have called nowhere but at your office
since I left my own, and I have lost eight
thousand pounds. I am convinced that I must
have left it there.'

1 I can't think so, Mr. Bommaney,' said Barter,

with a face of innocence. ' We can go back
together, if you like, and look for it.' Bornmanev-
driver lingered for him ; the other cabman was
already jingling leisurely down the street.

1 Johnson said young Barter, addressing the
domestic, ' you hear what Mr. Bommaney says.
This is a matter of the most urgent importance,
and must be looked into at once. Tell my
mother that I have been home, and that I have
been called suddenly back on urgent business.'
Bommaney stood in a kind of stupid trance, and
the young man, taking him by the arm, had
some ado to secure his attention.

Come ! Come, sir he said ; ■ we will look
into this at once. You must not remain in
suspense about such a matter.'

They rustled together through the straw which
had been laid down upon the roadway, and had
been scattered by the feet of passers-by upon the
pavement, and, mounting the cab, drove in a
ghastly silence for a score of yards, and then,

with a clatter which made conversation difficult,
Bommaney, rousing himself at intervals, shouted
his certainty that the notes would prove to have
been left at Barter's chambers. Barter, growing
curiously inured to the circumstances of the
case, shouted back that he dared to say they
would be ; that it was very likely ; that he
really did not see where else Mr. Bommaney
could possibly have left them, furtively pressing
the notes against his breast meanwhile, and
once, at a quiet interval, when Bommaney had
sunk into his former stupor, venturing to steal
a hand to the pocket in which the stolen money
lay, caressing the edges of the notes with the
tips of his fingers.

I'm sure,' said Bommaney, as the cab pulled
up at the gate of the quadrangle, ' that we shall
find them here.' He spoke with a tremulous
uncertainty, and so obviously appealed for a
confirmation of his hope, that Barter felt constrained
to answer,

Oh, we are bound to find them

The striking of a wax vesta at the door of
the chambers, the shaky hunt for the key, the
well-known obstinacy of the lock, the opening of
the door, the fevered working of Bommaney's
finders, and the flushed eagerness of his face,
were all memorable to young Barter for many
and many a day. They entered together the
room in which their interview had taken place ;
and Barter, nursing the remnant of the flaming
vesta, lit the gas with it, and then, dropping it
on the floor, set his foot upon it, and looked at
his companion.

Where do you think you left the notes,
sir ? ' he asked. ■ Have you any idea ? I think
you took out some papers here. You wanted
to consult my father about them, I fancy,
and, if I remember, you returned them to your
pocket

Bommaney stood looking about him on the
floor, trailing the point of his walking-cane pur-vol.

i i

noiselessly hither and thither ; and it was at this
moment, seeing how confused and broken his
victim seemed, that young Mr. Barter tasted the
first flavour of safety.

I don't see anything,' he said.

Did you,' Bommaney asked him, with both
trembling hands grasping the knob of his ,
and shaking in appeal before the unsuspected
thief — ' did you lock any papers away
before you left ? '

As a matter of fact, young Barter had not
had any papers to lock away that evening after
Bommaney's departure ; but he thought the trick
worth playing, and, producing his keys, again
opened the heavy iron safe which stood against
the wall.

Yes,' he said, with an air of hopeful alacrity.
By Jove, I did ! ' He stood aside, with an
outstretched hand, and motioned Bommaney to
examine the contents of the safe. There was a
parchment there, there were half a dozen bundles

of documents tied in pink tape and docketed ; but
there were no bank-notes.

1 You know said Bommaney, with a fretful
wail, ' I must have left them here ; I couldn't
have left them anywhere else. I put it to you
—could I ? '

Barter looked at him mournfully, with raised
eyebrows. There was just a hint of expostulation
in his raised eyebrows, and in the expression of
his voice.

1 You see, sir,' he said, waving his white
hands — ' you see for yourself, there's nothing
here.'

Bommaney walked to a chair, and, sitting
down there, lifted up his voice and wept, ' I've
been an honest man, by God ! all my life long ;
and now I'm not merely ruined, but I shall betaken
for a thief.' He cried bitterly after this
outburst, with his head between his hands. His
hat fell off, and his walking-stick tumbled noisily
to the floor. Mr. Barter picked them up, and,

having set them on the table, looked at the
shaking shoulders, and listened to the ruined
man's sobs and failings. It was a pity — of
course it was a pity — but young Mr. Barter
really did not see how it was in his power to
help it.

Ox a chill spring evening the sunset over London
gave a brief radiance of colour to the dull gray
roof and smoke - stained chimneys of many
thoroughfares. Shadows thickened in the eastern
skies as if fold after fold of finest crape were
drawn over the field of watery and opalescent
light the fallen sun had left behind it. In one
great thoroughfare running east and west the
sky-line of the houses stood distinct, and bathed
in light of many colours ; whilst down below
there was a wall of shadow. Two parallel walls
of shadow rose from a shadowy level, and the
dusk had a thousand indistinguishable voices.

The shadowy lines became accented by twin
rows of flickering fire, the rear jets seen with a

blurred halo of mist round each of them, the halo
crawling feebly within itself, tormented by a
feeble wind. The long vista of pavement became
chequered like a chessboard, with patches
of light from shop windows. Gable Inn, staring
at the growing darkness with a single fiery eye,
looked like a Eip Van Winkle. It had been old
when Chaucer and the knights and ladies of
whom he sang were young ; and its hoary
stunted angles and squat chimney cowls had the
grave and impassive aspect proper to great age.
It has stood there now for over seven hundred
years hoarding a growing store of secrets. It is
roughly picturesque in every detail, and its every
chamber is a triumph of narrowness, obscurity,
and inconvenience.

In the quadrangle the shadows climbed the
sturdy walls as if they were an exhalation from
the paving-stones. The dim staircase sent down
all manner of muffled and echoing voices. Footsteps
sounded, and the clang of doors, and the

shriek of unwilling keys in rusty locks, and
the hurrying traffic of the street without,
softened by the moist atmosphere, was like
the fading echo of following feet upon the
stairs.

Lights sprang up in the basement windows,
telling of pro-tractive legal labours. Lights
twinkled in the garrets, telling of lonely study
or noisy conviviality in the coming hours of
darkness. At length one side of the quadrangle
viewed by a solitary watcher from a third floor
window of the opposing side, winked with a
hundred windows through the wet air and
deepening shadow like a blear-eyed Argus.

This watcher, lounging at his own window,
was Mr. Philip Bommaney, recently self-entitled
the ' Solitary of Gable Inn.' He was eight-and-twenty
years of age or thereabouts, a broad-shouldered,
deep - chested, manly-looking fellow,
with curling brown hair, and a face expressive of
pugnacity, good-humour, and many capacities.

He was a little weary now, after a long day
of satisfactory work. He watched the mounting
shadows, sand listened to the weird gamut of the
wind among the telegraph lines, until the outer
voices made his own dull room seem homely.
One ruddy tongue of flame from the expiring fire
in the grate played on the narrow walls and low
ceiling, and woke twinkling reflections in the
spare and battered furniture. A man's dwelling-place
is always an index to his character when
its arrangement depends upon himself; and signs
of Philip Bommaney's nature and pursuits were
visible in plenty here. There were symmetrical
rows of books on the shelves flanking the fireplace.
An orderly stack of newspapers occupied
one corner of the room, and a set of boxing-gloves
lay on top of the pile, and a pair of dumb-bells
beside it. A shaded reading-lamp stood
upon the table in the midst of a great litter of
papers. The barrels of a huge elephant gun
flashed dimly from the wall as the firelight

played upon them, and two or three lighter
weapons were ranged together lower down.

He turned from the window and lit the lamp,
and, wheeling round, held up the light to a photograph,
and studied it with a pleased face. It was
the portrait of a pretty girl, very sweetly grave,
and looking as if it could be very sweetly vivacious.
When he had looked at it for a longish
time he nodded and smiled, as if the pictured
lips had actually spoken to him. There was a
tumbler standing beside the photograph with a
bunch of hothouse flowers in it, the one bright
spot of colour in the dingy chamber. He took
this in his disengaged hand, and nodding and
smiling anew at the pretty girl's portrait, he
turned about again, and walked into a bedroom
beyond a narrow and inconvenient little window.
The strident voice of the clock over the entrance
of the old Hall, answered or anticipated from
multitudinous spires in the City far and near,
sounded as Philip entered his bedroom. He

stood and listened, counting six jarring strokes.
The bedroom was a microscopic apartment, with
as many: corners in it as any room of its size in
London, and the bed itself was a perfect triumph
of littleness, so tucked under the sloping roof, and
so surrounded by projecting corners, as to make
the entry to it or the exit from it a gymnastic
performance of considerable merit. The room
was not over-light at the best of times, the fourth
part of the space of one small window in the
sloping wall was filled by its own heavy framework,
and for half its height it was shielded by a
parapet, which had at least its uses in hiding the
occupant of the room from the too-curious observation
of those who dwelt in the upper stories of
the houses opposite. These houses opposite, compared
with Gable Inn, are of a mushroom modernness,
and yet are old enough (having begun with
a debauched and sickly constitution) to have
fallen into an almost complete decrepitude. Their
stately neighbour seems to be less grimy with the

London smoke than they are, has always been
less susceptible to outside evil influences, even of
that unescapable sort, and drives them to an
added shabbiness of senility by contrast with its
own hale old age.

The bedroom window was already open for
the admission of such fresh air as, disguised in
London blacks, the exhalations of moist spring
pavements, and the reeking odours of the cuisine
of Fleeter's Events, might choose to wander thither.
Philip, with the lamp in one hand and the
tumbler of flowers in the other, put out his head
and looked into the squalid depths below him,
and having gazed there a while absently and with
no object, drew back with a vague touch of pity
upon him for the people who dwelt in so much
squalor so near to healthy effort and reasonable
competence. He could hardly have told as much,
perhaps, but one pallid countenance, shining very
dimly at an open window, was very much answerable
for that vague touch of pity. The. face in

the darkness started away from the window ashe
looked at it, as if his own robust health and
the light that dwelt about him startled its
pinched shabbiness into solitude. He set the
tumbler of flowers upon the window-ledge, and
closing the window, made his toilet and returned
to the sitting-room. Then, having banked up
the fire, and set the matches in such a position
that he could easily find them, he blew out the
lamp, left his chambers, and ran down the tortuous
stairs. As he turned the last corner a door
clanged noisily, and the next thing of which he
was conscious was that he was struggling in the
embrace of a stranger whom he had doubled up
in an angle of the wall.

I beg your pardon,' he said gaspingly ; ' I
stumbled.'

'You did,' responded the stranger, gasping
also. ' Bather heavily. It was lucky you had
something soft to fall on.'

Philip began to make apologies. The

stranger, breathless still, but jovially polite,
begged him not to mention it. He was a tallish
young man, broad set, and a little too fleshy for
his years. He had a clean-shaven face, healthily
pallid, the whitest of teeth, and a most frank,
engaging, and contagious smile.

'Pray don't say anything more about it,' he
said in answer to Philip's reiterated apologies.
You are not hurt, I hope ? '

1 No, thanks ; but I'm afraid you are.'

I Not at all. It was sharp for a minute ; but
I am all right now. The stairs are very inconvenient,
especially to strangers.'

I I haven't even that excuse for my clumsiness,'
said Philip ; ' for I am living here.'

Indeed ; then we are neighbours, and should
know each other. Father an informal kind of
introduction, eh ? ' The stranger said this with a
mellow laugh and a flash of his white teeth. He
opened his overcoat as he spoke, and produced a
card-case, Philip catching the gleam of a gold-studded

shirt-front as he did so. ' That's my
name, John Barter ; and these are my offices.'
The outer oak, cracked and blistered to the likeness
of an ancient tar-barrel, bore an inscription,
dim with long years — 'Fellowship, Freemantle,
and Barter' — and the names were repeated on
the door-post at the entrance.

'I have no card,' said Philip, accepting the
stranger's. ' My name is Bommaney — Philip
Bommaney ; ' Mr. Barter's smiling face was unchanged,
though he gave a slight but perceptible
start at the name, and repeated it.

Do you know it ? ' asked Philip. To the
ears of his companion there was something of a
challenge in the tone. ' It is not a common
name.'

No. Not a common name. I think I have
heard it somewhere.'

They were under the archway by this time, in
the brief shelter of which the sanguine-faced, red-waistcoat
lodge-keeper was taking his nightly

constitutional. They answered the touch of the
hat with which he saluted them.

Which is your way ? ' asked Mr. Barter.

'Westward said Phil.

Mine is east said Barter, ' so we part here.
We are bound to meet again before long. Goodnight.'


Good-night, and many thanks for taking my
clumsiness in such good part.'

Barter's ready smile beamed out again. They
shook hands before parting like old acquaintances,
and Philip walked on, through the incessant noise
of Lowborn into quieter Bloomsbury Street, along
the eastern side of Bedford Square, where the
bare trees were shivering in a bath of fog, and
into Gower Street. Half way down that hideous
thoroughfare he came upon a house, one of the few
which still retain the old lamp-iron and extinguisher
before their doors, and knocking, was
admitted by a trim maid, with the smiling alacrity
due to a frequent and favoured visitor, and by

her conducted to the drawing-room, where sat a
young lady engaged in a transparent pretence of
being absorbed in a novel. The pretence vanished
as the door closed behind the handmaiden, and
the young lady jumped up and ran forward to
meet him, with such a glad welcome in her face
as answered the appeal in his own. It does not
need that we should look at her with Philip's
eyes to pronounce her charmingly pretty, or to
admire the face, at once shy and frank, with
which she nestled beside him.

I thought you were never coming,' she said.

Am I so late, then ? '

It seemed so, and now you are come, tell me
what you have been doing.'

Working, and thinking of you.'

1 You work too much, Phil.' She did her best
to ignore the second item of his day's occupation,
but the deepened flush and her avoidance of her
lover's eyes answered it more effectively than
words could have done. ' You are getting quite

pale and thin. Xo wonder, sitting all alone all
day long in those musty old chambers.'

I "Well, you see, Patty, the more I work, the
sooner I shall cease to be all alone.' The flush
deepened again, and the hand trembled in his
like a caught bird. 'And as for working too
much, I don't believe that's possible. Work
never killed anybody yet, and idleness has killed
a good many. It's better to work than sit still
and wait for briefs which never come. There's no
sensation more delightful than that of looking at
a good day's work, and thinking that every line
and word has brought me nearer to you.'

His tenderness conquered her slyness, and
she nestled closer still, looking up at him with a
whole-hearted admiration and affection. He felt
a little sad and unworthy under it, as almost any
honest fellow would have been sure to do, and yet
it was wonderfully sweet to him, and more than
reward enough for any effort.

I I wish I could help you, Phil. I wish I

VOL. 1 K

could do something for you, when you have given
up so much for me.'

Hush ! ' he said, laying his hand lightly upon
her lips. ' We made up our minds long ago that
no more was to be said about that.' He was
tender still — he could be nothing else with her
but there was a touch of sternness in his
manner, too — as if the theme pained him.

But I can't help thinking of it. It was so
noble of you, Phil.'

It was the only thing to be done — the only

thing possible. It was ' he paused for a

second, and then went on resolutely — ' it was my
father's act by which you suffered. I should
have been a scoundrel if I had done otherwise.'

1 And are you to do all ? and am I to do
nothing ? It is selfish to keep all the generosity
to yourself.'

He laughed as if he found this female paradox
a pleasant fancy, but she was not to be put off so.

If the subject pains you, as I know it does,

dear, please understand why I speak of it, I
don't want you to think I take your sacrifice as
you pretend to take it. It isn't a matter of
course, as you pretend it is ; and you may say
what you like, Phil, but it isn't a thing that
everybody would have done. Don't grudge me
my gratitude ; you did it for the love of me.'

1 1 didn't do it for the love of you,' said Phil,
laughing tenderly ; ' how often am I to tell you
that, you little mountain of obstinacy ? I did it
because it was the right thing. I don't say, mind
you, that it wasn't easier to do it for you than it
might have been for somebody I didn't know or
care for ; but that — as you will see quite clearly
if you'll bring your naturally logical mind to bear
upon it — makes the thing so much the less
creditable, provided there was any credit due toit
at all.'

The loving feminine scorn of this masculine
process of reasoning was expressed in a single
glance, and was delightful to see.

It only means waiting a little longer before I
claim you.'

The^girl would fain have asked, 'Why should
you wait when I have enough for both by your
gift ? What does it matter which of us it is who
has the money — you or I ? ' But this question
went unspoken, for obvious reasons. A woman
is tongue-tied by the countless conventionalities
of education. She must often let her thoughts
lie silent in her heart, though she burns to
express them, and find what answer she can to
questions she dare not offer. . Philip had repaired
her loss by beggaring himself. That was noble.
But now he persisted in deferring their marriage,
and had buried himself in that lofty sarcophagus
in Gable Inn, resolved only to claim her, though
she was all his own already, when he had reinstated
his fortunes by his labour. That was
noble also, perhaps, but in her own heart she
thought it a trifle foolish — say Quixotic, not to
be too severe. She would rather have seen his

ardour find a more commonplace expression. She
had a general sort of belief that whatever Philip
did was bound to be right, and yet this actual
experience rather jarred with that assumption.

They found other themes in a while, and
talked of the future and the happiness it would
bring. That Philip was going to be rich and
famous was a prime article in Patty's creed, and
he himself, though he had soberer hopes, was not
likely to miss any chance of success which labour
might bring him. He was more than modest
enough in his conception of his own powers, and
was often doubtful as to the fulfilment of the
higher ambitions which are the necessary fuel of
all artistic fires. Without those fires the chill of
modesty will fall to the frost of cowardice, and
in Art cowardice means indolence. In his
moments of exultation — and these came generally
at their strongest when he was in his sweetheart's
society — success looked easy enough. The
memory of her undoubted belief in him came

upon him often with a glow reflected from those
magnificently hopeful moments. But then at
times of : depression it grew to look no more thana
foolish unattainable dream. All young artists
have times when they are going to be great —
when the glory proper to white hairs makes a
halo round unwrinkled fronts and curls, brown or
golden. They have times when the smartest turn
of verse, the most delightful inventions of narrative,
the most exquisite contrast of colour or
mould of form their genius can compass are
stricken through and through with the horror of
commonplace. But when a man of the artistic
genus has once so far learned his own nature he
has made a great advance towards the fulfilment
of his ambitions. He has to learn that just as
the hot fit is followed by the cold the cold fit is
succeeded by the hot. He knows how intermittent
he is. He learns to mistrust his own
mistrust of himself. The periods of depression
grow less frequent, and the depression grows less

lasting. And then, just as the cold fit becomes
less chilling to the one, the fit of exultation grows
less intoxicating. The halo beams less bright —
less near.

Yet Philip, with the girl's eyes worshipping
him, and her sweet voice cooing hope and praise,
and her hands knitted on his shoulder, and her
warm breath fanning his cheek, gave himself upto
the vision, and felt his heart warm with a
world's welcome as yet far away from him.

■ The prose of life will assert itself, even to
visionary eight-ands twenty and sweet eighteen in
love with one another. On this occasion it came
as a summons to supper. The summoner was a
stout and jovial elderly gentleman, about whose
somewhat commonplace British exterior there was,
to Philip's mind, a reflection of the nimbus which
glorified Patty to his mind, for he was Patty's
father. He had been called Old Brown at school
when he was young — he had been called Old Brown
in the country, and the prefix had found him out

in town without the need for anybody to breathe
a whisper of it. He was Old Brown to his new
acquaintances in London before a month had
gone by. The name suggests a beverage which
is not unlike Old Brown himself —-being mild
and nutty to the taste as he to the mental palate
ripe and genial. He had a moist twinkle of
the eye, — the look which bespeaks the kindly
humorist, — and his slightly protruding under lip
seemed covertly to taste the flavour of unspoken
jokes. Old Brown's jokes were mainly left unspoken,
but he spent a good part of his life in
laughing without any very apparent reason for
laughter, and may have been internally the way
he looked to be.

He shook hands with Philip, and chucked
Patty under the chin with a waggish aspect, which
called an appealing blush into the girl's face.
Perhaps the blush stayed the intended quip,
but any way the old gentleman contented himself
with a beaming laugh, and led the way

to the supper table, rubbing his hands and
chuckling.

The meal was quietly jovial, and if, after it,
Old Brown was not quite so fast asleep as he
pretended to be, at least his patience gave the.
lovers the shelter they needed. He snored in
mellow murmurs from behind his bandanna, and
they sat and talked together in low tones lest
they might awaken him, until the time came for
parting.

Outside the mist had given place to a dull
persistent rain, and a peevish wind was complaining
in area and chimney cowl. Philip turned to
the street with a pleasantly haunting vision of
Patty's vivacious face outlined against the warmth
and brightness of the hall. The touch of her
goodnight kiss lingered on his lips like live
velvet, and he carried warmth and brightness
enough within him to defy all the rain that ever
rained, and all the wind that ever blew on
smoky London.

The rain had cleared the streets, and the
occasional gleam of a policeman's cape or a furtive
figure seeking the shelter of a doorway against
the drifting showers was all he saw as he bored
his way against the rising wind to the corner of
Lowborn. He was so absorbed by that fancy of
music to which his own quick tread kept time
that a shuffling step behind him rapidly drawing
nearer failed to reach his sense. But as he came
to the corner, a hand clutched his arm.

He turned, with the quick defensive gesture
natural to a man so accosted at such a time, and
faced the unexpected figure. An old man, clad
in filthy fluttering rags, stood staring at him,
with both hands stretched out. The rags shook
as much with the horrible cough that tore him as
with the cruel wind. He was a dreadful creature,
with watery eyes, and a head and moustache of
dirty gray. His long and venerable hairs
strayed loose beneath the dunghill relic which
crowned them. The rain was in his hair and

beard, and had so soaked his tattered dress that
it clung to him like the feathers of a drenched
fowl. He shook and wheezed and panted, and
gripped the air with tremulous fingers, and
through the rents in his clothing his white flesh
gleamed in the gaslight.

The look of surprise and pity which Philip
bent upon this unclean apparition was startled
into one of sudden fear and horror. In the very-instant
when these emotions struck him, they
were reflected in the other's face. The man
made a motion to run, but Philip clutched his
arm, and he stood cowering and unresisting.

1 You ! Here in London ? '

1 Phil said the spectre imploringly, ' for God's
sake help me. I didn't know it was you, when

I followed you. I thought ' his voice trailed

into silence.

1 You have come to this ? '

1 Yes, Phil ; this is what I've come to.' The
cough took him here again, and tore him so that

he was fain to lean against the shutters of a shop
near at hand.

Why do you come back here ? Are you
mad?'

I am — almost. What could I do ? I'm as
safe here as I am anywhere. Who would know
me ? or, if they did, who would hurt a wretch
like me ? I haven't slept in a bed for weeks,
Phil. I haven't eaten a morsel for three days.
For God's sake ! give me some money. I'll — I'll
go away ; I'll never trouble you again.'

1 I'll give you all I can. But you must go
away from London.'

Philip thrust his hand into his pocket and
brought up all the pocket's contents. He took
his keys and an unvalued trifle or two from the
handful, and held the rest out towards his father.
The old man shrunk from him with a terrible
appeal and shamefaced gratitude which cut the
son's heart like a knife.

1 Where can I go to ? '

'Anywhere out of London. You are not — ■
safe here. Go away. "Write to me here.' He
thrust an envelope on which his name and
address were written into the old man's dirty
trembling hand. * You must never come to seeme.
Promise me that.'

1 1 promise he said ; and, thrusting the money
and the envelope somewhere among his rags,
stood silent for a while. ' I'm afraid he said, ' I
acted very foolishly and very '

Then his voice trailed away again.

God help you ! ' said Philip with a choking
voice.

1 You'll shake hands, won't you, Phil ? ' said
the old man. Phil took the proffered hand.
It's something said Bommaney the elder, clinging
to him, ' to feel an honest man's hand again.
God bless you, Phil ! — God bless you ! '

Philip stood silent, and the old man, with
another shame-stricken glance upon him, moved
away. His son watched him for a second or two,

as he slunk, coughing and shivering, along the
gleaming pavement, and then turned and went
his own way heavily.

Bommaney, senior, discerning the welcome
beacon of a public-house, shuffled eagerly towards
it, hugging beneath his rags the money his son
had given him.

I beg your pardon, Mr. Bommaney ; if you
please, sir.' He started at the sound of a voice
which had been familiar to him for years. ' I
should like a word with you, sir ; if you please.'

James Hornettt was less changed than his old
employer, but it was evident that he too had
fallen upon evil times. For a mere second the
familiar tones of his voice were no more than
familiar to Bommaney, whose mind was confused
by long misery and hunger and sleeplessness, and
the shock of his late encounter. But when he
turned and saw Hornettt's long thumb and finger
scraping at his stubbly jaws, the gesture and the
attitude of apology brought him back to mind at
once. Hornettt's coat sleeve was torn, and showed
his arm half way down to the elbow, but revealed
no hint of linen. The collar of his frock-coat
was buttoned tightly about his neck, and there
was a sparkling metallic rime upon his cheeks

and chin and upper lip. Bommaney was ashamed
before him, and afraid of him, and only some
faint reminder of self-respect and the pride of
earlier days held him back from the impulse to
run away.

You're not afraid of me, sir ? ' said James
Hornettt. He had always smiled, and was smiling
even now. The smile was no more than a
contortion of the muscles of the face, which made
a long mirthless crease on either cheek, and left
the eyes untouched by the least light of sympathy.
It gave him a propitiatory doglike look, and
there was a hint of fawning in his attitude which
matched it perfectly and carried out the likeness.
1 You remember me, sir ? ' he went on, for Bomb
stared at him so wildly that there seemed
room for reasonable doubt on that point. ' Hornet,
sir. James Hornettt. Your faithful servant
for thirty years, sir.' Bommaney looked at him
with haggard watering eyes, and said nothing as
yet. ' It's a bit of a surprise, sir, at first, isn't

it V Hornettt went on, with his unchanging smile.
There was a good deal of hunger and even triumph
in his small soul, but they found no other outward
expression, and his attitude and voice were
as apologetic and retiring as of old. ' It was
rather a surprise to me, sir, when I recognised
you. Isn't it a little dangerous for you to be
here, Mr. Bommaney ? '

They both started, and each looked about him
at this mention of the fugitive's name.

c Hush ! ' said Bommaney. ' Don't call me by
that name. Come away from here.'

A policeman strolled along the street, with an
echoing tread, and as the two slunk past him he
turned a casual glance upon them. The glance
touched them like a galvanic shock, and they
would have run if they had had courage for such
an indiscretion.

1 What do you want with me ? ' asked Bomb
when the policeman was out of sight and
hearing ; Hornettt walking beside him, with his

VOL. I L

lean, propitiatory fingers at his chin, looked up
with hesitating meekness.

Well, you see, sir he responded, ' your fall
was mine, sir ; I was supposed ' — he coughed
behind his hand here to indicate apology for the
introduction of a theme so necessarily disagreeable
to the other's feelings — ' I was supposed,
sir, to have been in your confidence. I made
many applications for employment, and nobody
would employ me. Young Mr. Weathered, sir,
promised, personally, that if I called again, he'd
kick me down the steps.'

Bommaney groaned.

1 What do you want with me ? ' he asked
again.

They were standing by this time outside the
doors of a public-house, and the wind-driven rain
was pelting down heavily.

I thought, sir ' said Hornettt ; ' I'm very

hard pressed, sir.' The doglike, propitiatory
smile never varied. ' I was following Mr. Phil

myself, sir, in the hope that his kindness might
run to a trine.'

1 Come in said Boinmaney ; and Hornettt
eagerly accepting the invitation, they entered the
house together. There was an odour of frying in
the room, and a hissing noise proceeded from a
sort of metal caldron which stood over a row
of gas-jets on the pewter counter. A printed
legend, ' Sausage and Mashed, 3d.' was pasted on
the wooden partition at the side of the box they
entered, and on the mirror which faced them, and
displayed their own squalid misery to themselves.
A year ago the fare would have seemed uninviting
to either at his hungriest moment, but
now Bommaney called for it with a dreadful
suppressed eagerness, and, the barman serving
them with a tantalising leisure, they watched
every movement with the eyes of famine.

I've got a little place, sir, of my own whispered
Hornettt, when the pangs of hunger were
appeased, ' It's very humble, but you could put

up for the night there.' Bommaney made no
answer, but the two set out again together
through the rain, and, pausing once only for
the purchase of a flat pint bottle of whisky,
made straight for Fleeter's Rents.

All that nine hundred and ninety-nine in a
thousand of the many thousands who pass it
every day could tell you of Fleeter's Rents is that
it makes a narrow black gash in the walls of the
great thoroughfare, and that it neighbours Gable
Inn. It is slimy in its very atmosphere all
winter through, and its air in summer time is
made of dust and grit and shadow. The old
Inn elbows it disdainfully on one side, and on
the other a great modern stuccoed pile overtops
it with a parvenu insolence. It is the home
naturally of the very poor ; for no hermit or
hater of the world, however disposed to shun his
fellows, would hide in its dingy solitudes whilst
he had but a mere shilling a day for lodging and
bodily sustenance elsewhere.

Hornettt led the way up a set of narrow and
broken stairs, and having reached the uppermost
story of the house, pushed open a broken door,
which, depending from a single hinge, scratched
noisily upon the uneven flooring of the room.
His guest stood shivering in the doorway until a
match sputtered and fizzed in Hornettt's fingers.
Then, guided by that precarious light, he advanced.
Hornettt lit a candle which adhered by
its own grease to the filthy wall and had already
made a great cone of smoke with a tremulous
outline there. There was a small grate, with a
mere double-handful of shavings, chips, and coal
behind its rusty bars. Hornettt applied the
match to the shavings, and, as the fire leapt up,
the two men knelt together, coughing and choking
in the smoke, and bathing their chilled hands
in the flame. Bommaney drew the flat bottle
from a pocket hidden somewhere in his multitudinous
rags, and drank. Hornettt watched him
greedily, with hands involuntarily and unconsciously

extended. Then when he had drunk in
turn, they each shivered over the fire again,
stealing furtive glances at each other, each
mightily disconcerted when he met the other's
eye. Bommaney had aged dreadfully during his
year of hiding, and Hornettt, who had drunk his
employer's health upon his birthdays often
enough to know his age to a day, could yet
scarce believe that the dreadful spectre who knelt
beside him numbered less than fourscore years.

One question perplexed Hornettt's mind. How
came it, he asked himself over and over again,
that in the space of a mere twelvemonths a man
who started with at least eight thousand pounds
could have fallen into such a depth of poverty ?
Eight thousand pounds, if absolutely nothing
were done with it for its own increase, meant
royal living for a score of years for an unencumbered
man. Hornettt longed to satisfy his own
curiosity upon this point, and felt as if he dared
not ask the question for his life. He framed a

score of ways by which he might approach it,
with a road of retreat behind him, and at last, as
if in spite of himself, he said, with apologetic
impudence,

1 You don't seem to have made the money last
long, sir.'

'The money cried Bommaney, turning furiously
upon him. ' What money ? '

Hornettt edged away upon his knees, and his
thumb and fingers traced the creases of his smile
up and down his stubbly cheeks.

1 Do you think,' the old man demanded
passionately, ' that I took away a penny ? '

Hornettt was afraid to rise. There was such
a despair and so much fury in the other's looks
that he could do nothing but crouch at his feet
with his mean meek face turned fearfully
towards Bommaney, and his body cowering.

'You think I took that eight thousand
pounds ? ' Bommaney quavered, with a voice of
bitter disdain.

He had never in his life regretted anything
so profoundly as he had regretted his resistance
of that temptation. To have had all the blame
and shame, and to endure all the miseries a convicted
thief might earn for himself, to have been
an outcast and a pauper, only because he had
been resolute against temptation ! It is easy
enough for a man whom circumstances keep
honest to think himself honourable beyond the
chance of temptation. But misery has the virtue
of Ithuriel's spear, with a difference. As the one
touched the beast and transformed him to the
seeming of a high intelligence, so will the other
touch a seemingly impregnable armour of bright
honour, and turn it into tinder, leaving the poor
beast revealed and unprotected from his own
base natural longings. The poor Bommaney was
maddened to think he had not done what the
other's thoughts charged him with, even though
he passionately rebelled against the accusation.

1 When did you ever know me to be a rogue,

James Hornettt ? ' he asked, with an air and voice
to which his passion lent something like dignity.
1 When did you ever know me defraud a man of
a farthing ? '

' Never, sir, I'm sure Hornettt responded,
not doubting in his own mind that Bommaney

was guilty. ■ But '

But what ? ' cried Bommaney. ' My own
son, my own flesh and blood, would hardly shake
hands with me. My clerk — I took him out
of the gutter, you know that, Hornettt ! I took
you out of the gutter and made a man of you,
and lavished kindness on you. Nobody has a
minute's trust in me — nobody thinks of misfortune
or disaster. I was right to run away
and hide myself, for nobody would have believed
me if I had stayed and told the truth.'

Hornettt looked more frightened than before
after this outburst, but Bommaney read incredulity
in his face, and answered it with an added
passion.

What good would it do me to tell lies to you ?
Suppose I made you believe me, am I such a fool as
to think your pity could set me on my legs again ?'

He turned away, moved by his own wrath
and anguish, and Hornettt, rising, made himself
as small as he could in the corner beside the
grate. Bommaney, in his pitiful broken boots,
went shuffling up and down the room.

What became of the money, sir ? ' the clerk
asked with a shaky voice.

He was ready to run for his life, and he was
more than half afraid that the old man was mad
his eyes blazed so, and his voice and gestures
were so tempestuous.

It was lost,' said Bommaney. ' I lost it,
Heaven knows how. I've thought a thousand
times,' he said, through his clenched teeth, ' that
that young Barter must have had it'

Young Barter, sir ?' said Hornettt.

Then Bommaney told all he knew of the
story of his own loss, and at a certain point in

the narrative Hornettt started and made a step
forward. He remembered the night well enough
he had reason to remember it. An appointment
for the theatre that evening had led him to
call upon a brother clerk in Gable Inn, and he
had seen young Mr. Barter leaving his chambers
in what had struck him at the time as being an
odd and stealthy fashion. He had remarked it
for the moment, and had forgotten it afterwards,
as men forget a thousand things of the sort
which have no interest personal to themselves.
But now he saw young Mr. Barter's figure with
a singular distinctness, and the face turned round
in the gaslight was again as visible as it had
been at the moment. He thought he read a
meaning in it now. But for this slight confirmation
of his employer's story he would probably
have disbelieved it, but the accidental
character of the clue weighed with him, an
apparent touch of romance in it gave it a value
beyond its merits.

1 Could you tell me, sir he asked, ' exactly
what time it was when you left Mr. Barter's
office ? '

'No,' said Bommaney, suddenly weary after
his outburst of self-exculpation, ' I don't know.
It was after banking hours. It was dark ; he
had to light the gas. What if I could ? What
would that have to do with it ? '

1 Well, you see, sir,' Hornettt answered, ' I'm
not likely to forget that evening. Of all the
evenings of my life, sir, I made a call at Gable
Inn myself, sir, at Number One. If young Mr.
Barter had found the notes he wouldn't care to
face you again, and he oughtn't have answered
your knock at the door, though he might have
heard it.'

1 Any fool could tell me that,' said Bommaney
roughly. ' What do you mean ? '

I've noticed, sir,' said Hornettt, with marked
humility, as if he apologised for having said anything,
' that young Mr. Barter is a gentleman who

goes about in rather a large way, and noisy way,
sir. He's a biggish man, as it is, and to look
at him at first you'd fancy that he was bigger
than he is. He talks very loud and cheery, sir,
and he bangs things about a good deal.'

1 Well ? ' said Bommaney, irritated by these
slow preliminaries, ' what about it all ? '

He could see that his late clerk was leading
to a point of some sort, and listened with a
growing impatience.

He was leaving his rooms that night, sir,'
said Hornettt, ' as sly as a cat. I was just on
the ground-floor of Number One as he was locking
the door behind him. Locking it, don't you
see, sir,' said Hornettt, beginning to be fired by
his imagination, and speaking eagerly, ' so as not
to make a noise in pulling it to behind him. I
suppose I made some sort of a noise in going
behind him, but any way, he looked up at me —
I can see him now ! ' he cried, with a swift conviction,
' as if he was here at this very minute,

white and cowardly. That's what he was, sir.
White and cowardly, I can see him now

Bommaney grasped him by the wrist.

Do you remember the time ? ' he asked,
passing one hand confusedly through the tumbled
and disgraceful old locks of his hair. ' Do you
remember when I left the office ? Do you
remember when you left it ? '

Almost directly, sir, after you. But you
drove, sir, and I walked. I stopped, and had a
little conversation with a friend, and just a social
glass that might have kept me back five minutes,
sir. I was going to dine with Mr. Marshall (White
and Fielding's Mr. Marshall, sir) before the theatre.'

Bommaney released his wrist, and dropping
on his knees before the fire again, warmed his
hands absently and stared into the blaze.

The notes were all hundreds, James,' he said,
after a pause. ' They were stopped at the Bank,
I know, because I saw the advertisement. It
wouldn't be easy to get rid of them.'

There are ways and means, sir said Hornettt.
1 They'd have to be disposed of at a loss, of course
a heavy loss — and kept quiet for a considerable
time.'

I Have you heard of any of them coming into
circulation ? ' asked Bommaney.

I I haven't been in the way to hear of anything,
sir,' the clerk answered mournfully, ' but,' with a
sidelong look at his old employer, ' if I could only
get to look a bit respectable, I could make inquiries
in an hour. I have no doubt I could
find out, sir

'My boy believes I'm guilty, like the rest;'
said the old man, moaning and shivering and
coughing again. The passion of his protest and
the warmth of heart which Hornettt's returning
confidence had taught him had all died away,
and he was his bankrupt, disgraced, and broken
self again, old and maudlin, and stricken conscious
of his miseries.

1 Phil might help me he said shakily. ' He

could, but he won't. He's got plenty of money.
If I'd been a rogue, James Hornettt,' and there he
flashed up again, ever so little, ' I could have
robbed my own flesh and blood with safety. A
rogue would have done it. I was his sole trustee,
and I could have had nine thousand by a stroke
of the pen at any minute.'

Mr. Phil, sir,' said Hornettt. ' Mr. Phil hasn't
got much money left.'

Why not ? ' the old man asked, staring round
at him with his watery eyes.

'He paid Mr. Brown the eight thousand
in full, sir, and divided the rest, as far
as it would go, amongst the poorest of the
creditors.'

Bommaney turned back towards the fire, and
drooped there. He seemed very impassive under
this intelligence, but he was deeply moved by it
all the same. The sense of his son's high feeling
of honour gave him a keen throb of pride, and
then he thought bitterly that his own ill-luck

pursued his offspring. The loss was double. It
had disgraced and ruined him, and had robbed
his son of his inheritance.

Hornettttt,' he said, ' James Hornettttt.'

'Yes, sir.'

I was brought up the old man said, in a
muffled voice, advancing and retiring his hands
before the fire, and chafing them automatically,
f I was brought up by Christian parents. I never
did a dishonourable act in all my days. I have
been a God-fearing man and a — a steady church-goer.
I give it all up. I renounce it. I don't
believe in God. I don't believe in religion. I
don't believe in being honest. It's a — it's a
vile wicked world, Hornettt, and it's my belief
the devil rules it.'

Oh, sir,' cried Hornettt, ' you mustn't talk like
this, sir. You must excuse me speaking free, sir,
but I can't stand by and hear you talk like that.
I can't listen to it, sir — I can't really. I've never
said a disrespectful word to you, Mr. Bommaney,

vol. i M

but I really must speak out now, sir. It isn't
respectable, sir, to talk like that.'

After this there was a long silence, and Bomb
who had retouched the bottle after his
last application to it, consulted it again, and
handed it artlessly to Hornettt, without looking
at him.

Phil might,' he murmured in a while — ' he
might be brought to believe me. He's an honest
man himself, James — a very honest high-minded
man indeed. I must look where he lives,' he
murmured, seeking for the envelope his son had
given him. ' He gave me his address.'

His address, sir,' said Hornettt. ' You could
almost lay your hand on him. He lives there.
That's his window with the light in it.' Bomb
moved to the window, and followed with
his glance the direction of Hornettt's outstretched
finger. There was a window a few feet higher
than the one at which he stood, and half-hidden
from observation by a stone parapet. A shadow

obscured the light, and moved about the ceiling,
visible from below.

I saw him there to-night, sir,' said Hornettt.
1 saw his face at the window. He put a glass
of flowers outside. That's his shadow moving
about there now.'

Phil ! ' groaned the wretched father, straining
his dirty wasted hands together. ' Phil ! '

1 I'm not the figure, sir,' said Hornettt, ' to call
upon a gentleman like Mr. Phil ; nor yet are you,
sir, if you'll excuse my saying so. But if you'd
let me go, sir, and put the case to him, he might
come and see you here, sir, and you might set
yourself straight with him, sir, which would at
least,' the seedy man added, somewhat moved by
the old man's tears and trembling, ' be an advantage
to a father's heart.'

Bommaney stood in silence, looking upward.
The moving shadow settled itself upon the ceiling
in a huge silhouette, distinctly traceable.
There was no doubting it was Phil's dear head

that threw the shadow, himself invisible, so near,
so far. The foolish outcast's heart ached bitterly,
and he stretched both hands towards the shadow,
not knowing that he moved.

Shall I venture, sir ? ' asked Mr. Hornettt,
more moved than ever, and coughing to clear a
little huskiness in the throat. ' Shall I venture,
sir, to look in on Mr. Phil in the morning ? '

'Yes, go, James,' said Bommaney, sobbing
outright by this time. ' Perhaps — perhaps he
may believe me.'

under considerable pressure. Mr. Barter's fleshy
and well-formed fingers were somewhat too familiar
with the feel of cards. These fingers of his
were peculiarly dexterous to look at, and had
even an unnecessary braggadocio air of dexterity
when he was engaged in his favourite occupation.
Experienced people watched his shuffling and
dealing with great care. In Mr. Barter's frank
and engaging countenance, and in that ready
smile in which the faultless teeth shone so conspicuously,
there was no hint of danger to the
most unwary. Even the wariest, listening to his
genial mellow laughter, and seeing the jolly
shoulders shake with mirth, were inclined to
think him a loyal honest-hearted fellow. His
loud swagger, his frank rollicking gait, his 
shake of the hand, the other
hand clapped upon the shoulder, the noisy greeting,
and that unfailing smile, not merely disarmed
suspicion, but made the mere fancy of it impossibly
absurd. But young Mr. Barter had accustomed

himself to associate with people whose
experiences had forced them to be observant, and
to these the dexterous caressing fingers with
which he manipulated all instruments employed
in games of chance seemed to justify a fairly
constant watchfulness. The fingers handled the
cards as if they loved them, as if they had been
accustomed to them from the cradle. The tips
turned back a good deal, and the nails hooked a
little forward. There were little bulbs of tact at
every tip, the hands were made for a gambler,
and could by no possibility have belonged to anybody
else.

The chief ground for the young man's sorrow
may be very easily and briefly stated. The packet
which the unfortunate cruelly-tempted Bommaney
had let fall in his half-drunken abstraction on
the floor of young Mr. Barter's private room was
made up exclusively, as we know already, of notes
for one hundred pounds. Now Bank of England
notes for one hundred pounds, though valuable.

and easily enough employed in all civilised countries
when honestly come by, are only to be got
rid of when dishonestly acquired at great risk and
loss. A note for a mere five pounds may pass
through scores of hands before being stopped at
the bank. Tens, so the experienced in such matters
will tell you, are a little difficult. Twenties
are inquired into rather carefully. Fifties are
positively dangerous to handle in this way.
Hundreds are, except after great lapse of time,
almost impossible ; and as for a thousand, a man
might almost as well steal a white elephant as a
bank-note of that value, except that it will cost
him nothing for keep, unless you count the
tremor of soul and nerve, which is surely worth
something, in which a man criminally possessed
of another's property is almost certain to live.

Mr. Barter, then, had eight thousand pounds
in ready money, was liable, if discovered, to penal
servitude, and was unable to touch a farthing of
his ill-got gains. There are many men in the

world, the world's experience proves it hourly,
who set so small a price upon their self-respect,
that they will sell it for a shilling, for a drink,
for a word. But there is hardly any man so
lost to the natural human desire for self-approval
that he will actually give away his self-respect
for nothing. Now tins absurd transaction young
Mr. Barter, when he took time to think about
things, appeared to himself to have made.

He was not, and never had been, a great
reader ; he gave up his mind to pursuits which
he found more attractive than the tranquil fields
and lanes of literature. Yet he remembered, ina
dim sort of way, either that he had read somewhere
in his schoolboy days, or that a fanciful
old nurse had told him, a story of a person somewhere,
who, being possessed of a great chest of
money, went one day to look at it, and found
that his hard cash had changed to withered
leaves. Precisely such a transformation had
overtaken that eight thousand pounds, at the

moment when it had fallen from the hands of a
man who might have made an honest use of it.
The fable was, and was not, true, so far as he remembered,
and his fancy dwelt curiously about
the history. There was no possibility of turning
back the withered leaves to gold, and making
them jingle and glitter again as only one's own
ready money can jingle and glitter. But, useless
as these crisp and rustling leaves of paper were
to him, they held still all their old potentialities,
and in the hands of honest men or courageous
rascals each leaf might still transmute itself into
a hundred golden emblems of sovereignty and
power. He was neither that honest man nor
that courageous rascal, and the money grew to bea
sort of devilish tantalising fetish to him. Before
he had owned it a fortnight, he had felt a
hundred times he could have burned it out of the
exasperation of mere spite against it.

He heard, of course, of Bommaney's flight, and
of the failure of the old-established business house.

People talked about these tidings a good deal fora
time, and he himself listened to and took part
in many speculations as to Bommaney's whereabouts,
and the means he would take to get rid
of the notes and make them available for his own
purposes. He found it at first a little trying to
the nerves. There was nothing, since Bommaney
had accepted his own disgrace and run away, to
connect young Mr. Barter with the lost eight
thousand pounds, yet it took much courage, and
a considerable amount of inward spurring, to bring
himself to talk about the business. When a man
carries a secret of a quite harmless nature, it
happens often, as almost everybody knows, that
casual words and quite innocent glances startle
him with hints of understanding and participation.
What is it when the detection of the secret
involves open shame and penal servitude ? Cana
man of genuine courage be a thief? Is not
courage after all at the very bottom of all manly
honour, of all sound honesty, all true self-respect ?

How shall a thief be other than a lurking cur,
whose whole soul, such as it is, is bent to a
mean suspicion that he is suspected, a continuous
terror-stricken watchfulness, a sleeping and waking
dread of an awful hand-clap on the shoulder ?
There are constitutional differences in thieves, no
doubt, as there are in other people, but the keynote
of the dishonest man's whole thought is
fear.

When, after a day or two, young Mr. Barter
had accustomed himself to speak of Bommaney
and the lost eight thousand, and had often spoken
of them, he began to look out for suggestions that
might be useful to himself. He even led the way
at times, and speaking to solicitors and barristers
of extensive criminal experience, he asked often,
for example, how could a scoundrel get rid of such
a clumsy handful ? Why didn't the fool cash the
notes, he would ask contemptuously, before he left
town, and before he was suspected ? Everybody
knew of course that the notes had not been

presented, and their numbers were advertised in
all the daily papers. Now what could a fellow
do who had them, by Jingo ? What could he do ?
There was no way open, so far as young Mr.
Barter could see, and he was wonderfully engaging
and innocent of the world's wickeder ways ashe
talked thus with the ablest of his fellow professionals.


The fellow professionals cited cases. There
was Rosenthal, a noted receiver in his day, to
whom a dishonest clerk had sold five thousand
pounds for five hundred. Rosenthal had held
the notes for six years, and had then put them
cautiously on the Continental market. He was
an old hand, was Rosenthal, and very clever and
leary, but they had bowled him out. The clerk
was wanted on another charge, and turned Queen's
evidence against the receiver. Almost all the
stories had this kind of termination, because the
legal gentlemen whom young Mr. Barter consulted
remembered mainly cases in which they

or their friends had been engaged, or cases which
had resulted in criminal proceedings. Others
there certainly were, but they were vague and
necessarily without those guiding particulars
which he desired.

It has been already hinted that the young
man was a gambler, and it is likely that most
of the reasons which made the money seem so
welcome to him had their sources at the gaming
table. He belonged to one of those clubs which
deserve to be numbered among the blessings of
modern society — where men do not meet for
social intercourse and good-fellowship, or for
dining purposes, or for any of the common and
amiable reasons which draw men into club-life,
but simply and purely to the end that they may
win one another's money. It was a joint-stock
swindling company to which young Mr. Barter
belonged, and within its limits every man proposed
to himself to get the better of every other man
by such means as lay in his power. A pigeon

got in amongst them every now and then, of
course — came in well-feathered and went out
plucked, but for the main part the rooks pecked
hungrily at one another, and made but little of
their time and pains. The one solitary advantage
of these corporations is that they gather the
depredatory birds together, and lead them to prey
upon themselves instead of wandering abroad for
the feathering of the innocent and artless who
abound even in these days. The well-constituted
mind can hardly fail to take pleasure in the contemplation
of these resorts, where Greek meets
Greek (in the modern French sense as well as
the old heroic) — where scoundrel encounters
scoundrel, and learns that the pleasure of being
cheated is by no means so great as that of cheating.
There were people of widely ranging social
position in this curious contingent. One or two
men of title, and one or two of the highest social
or commercial respectability, lent their names for
some inconceivable reason to grace the front page

of the neatly-bound little volume of rules which
govern, or sometimes fail to govern, the conduct
of the corporation. Mr. Barter rubbed shoulders
with young men — very young men they were —
who would one day have handles to their names,
and enjoy the control of considerable estates. He
sat at the same table with men whose birth and
antecedents, like those of the immortal James,
were shrouded in a mystery. He met men of
his own position, who like himself were desperately
glad of being numbered in the same club
society with men eminent on the turf, or familiar
in the gilded saloons of the great. He liked to
think of those gilded saloons ; it might be interesting
to know what he thought they resembled
most probably a somewhat old - fashioned
earthly paradise of ormolu. He bragged indefatigably
of his club and the people whom he met
there. He dated all his private correspondence
from it, and spent hundreds of daylight hours
above the ivories and the pasteboard.

At the time of that foolish and weak-willed
Bommaney's disaster there were two or three
I.O.U.'s for sums much more considerable than
he could afford to part with in the hands of his
fellow-members. Law is a necessity to human
society. Even a band of brigands can't hang
together without it. Debt, outside the club, was
by no means a thing to be harshly spoken of, but
debt to a fellow-member was a literal millstone
round a man's neck, and would sink him out of
sight in no time.

The elder Barter had gone over to the
majority, despatched by that street accident, and
if the old man had known nothing of the young
man's courses, he had had it in his power to
make him well-to-do. But he had paid his debts
once at least, and had more than once had occasion
to grieve over the boy's handling of the firm's
money, and so had made his will entirely in his
wife's favour, leaving his son dependent upon her
good graces. The mother was disposed to be a

VOL. I N

little sterner than the father had been. Perhaps
if young Barter had dreaded her less poor Bomb
fallen notes might have been returned to
him.

But, to get on with the story, the young man's
chief creditor at the club was one Steinberg, a
gentleman whose time appeared to be absolutely
at his own disposal, though he was known by
some of his fellow-members to have an address
in Hatton Garden, and to be more or less of a
diamond merchant there. He often carried about
with him, in a pocket-book, or in neat little packages
of grocer's gay paper, borne in the waistcoat-pocket,
a collection of gems of considerable value,
and would show them to his intimates with the
insouciance of a man who was accustomed to
handling things of price. He never was without
money, made little journeys at times, which rarely
took him away from town for more than a day or
two, and was, almost always, wholly unoccupied
except for the cards.

Now young Barter had a prodigious idea of
this gentleman's astuteness. He had no particular
belief in his honesty, and he believed him,
not altogether unreasonably as the sequel proved,
to be initiated into most of the mysteries of
modern rascality. This was merely a general
notion, based upon statements made by Steinberg
himself, and supported by the opinion of his intimates.
Nobody spoke ill of Steinberg ; it was
only understood that there was no move upon the
board with which he was not familiar. Young
Barter, meeting him one evening at the club,
whilst Bommaney's disappearance was still a fresh
topic of town conversation, spoke to him about it,
with an assurance clearly begotten of practice.

'Now, look here, Steinberg,' he said, in his
open and engaging way. ' Suppose you'd nobbled
those notes, what should you do with 'em ? '

Perhaps Mr. Steinberg resented the form of
this inquiry. But be that as it may, he
responded with some tartness,

Suppose you'd nobbled them ? '

At this chance thrust young Barter turned
curiously red and white, and had some ado to
recover that open smile of his.

Hang it he said, ' you can't suppose I meant
it that way. But,' with a half-hysteric courage,
suppose you had — suppose I had — suppose anybody
had — what would he do ? You, I, anybody ? '

Mr. Steinberg sipped at his lemon squash —
he drank that inspiring liquid all the year round,
and nothing else until cards for the day were
over — and puffed at his cigar, and looking young
Barter full in the face, nodded and smiled with
an odd mingling of meaning and humour.

Put him on to me,' he said, with perfect
affability. ' I'll put him up to it.'

Rather dangerous, wouldn't it be ? ' said
Barter, showing his white teeth in a somewhat
forced and ghastly manner.

Everything's dangerous for an ass,' said
Steinberg.

I shouldn't have thought laughed Barter,
1 that that was your line.'

He spoke as jestingly as he could, but he
knew that his laugh was forced, and that the
voice in which he spoke was unlike his voice of
every day, and he wished, with the whole of his
quaking heart, that he had left the theme alone.

1 Well, no,' said Steinberg, ' I suppose you
wouldn't.' He sipped his liquor through a straw,
and blew half a dozen rings of smoke from his
lips with practised dexterity, and kept a glittering
German-jewish eye on Barter. Perhaps he
meant something by the glance, perhaps he meant
nothing. He was a rather Machiavelli and
sinister-looking personage, was Mr. Steinberg, and
there was something even in the calm expression
of those perfectly-formed rings of smoke and in
the very way in which he sipped his liquor, and
most of all in the observant glitter of his eye,
which spoke of a penetration and shrewdness
very far out of the common. More and more

young Barter wished that he had not broached
this theme with Steinberg.

He could not help it for his soul. He could
feel that his colour was coming and going with
a dreadful fluttering alternation. He quailed
before the Israelitish eye so shrewdly cocked at
him, and when in a very spasm of despair he
tried to meet it, he was so abjectly quelled by
it that he felt his face a proclamation of his
secret.

Steinberg went on sipping and smoking, and
said nothing ; but when the young scoundrel, his
companion, had somewhat recovered himself and
dared again to look at him, there was the same
shrewd and wary glint in his eyes.

Young Barter had been unhappy enough
before this, but after it the money became a
burden hateful and horrible. He met Steinberg
often, and forced himself to be noisy in his company.
In his dread of seeming low-spirited, or
ill at ease, he said things about his dead father

which he would have left unsaid, had he consulted
the little good that was left in him ; and
Steinberg seemed to watch him very closely.

Young Barter put off his creditor with promises.
He would have lots of money by and
by. That seemed credible enough in the position
of affairs, and Steinberg waited. In a while.
however, he became exigent, and declined any
longer to be satisfied with promises. One night
the unhappy rascal, playing all the more because
of his troubles, all the more wildly, and certainly
all the worse, fell back upon his I.O.U.'s.
Steinberg followed him from the club. It was
late, and the streets were very quiet.

This won't do, you know, Barter,' said Steinberg,
tapping him on the shoulder as they walked
side by side.

Begad it won't; said young Barter, doing his
best to make light of it. ' They've been cutting
into me pretty freely this past week or two.'

Well,' said Steinberg, puffing at his eternal

cigar, and looking askant at Barter under the
light of a street-lamp which they happened to be
nearing at the moment, ' what you've got to do,
you know, is to find the man who knows Mr.
Bommaney.'

The commotion which assailed Barter at this
speech was like an inward earthquake.

• What — what do you mean ? ' he panted.

That's what you've got to do,' said Steinberg
tranquilly.

Do you mean to insinuate ' Barter

began to bluster ; but the older, cooler, and more
accomplished scoundrel stopped him contemptuously.


1 You know where they are,' he said. ' Why
don't you get at 'em ? '

About noon on the following day Mr. Steinberg,
seated in a small inner chamber in Hatton
Garden, leisurely answering his sole business
correspondent of that morning, was in no way
surprised when the boy he employed to open the
door and receive visitors brought in a card bearing
the name of ' Mr. John Barter, jun.'

1 Show him in said Mr. Steinberg ; and young
Mr. Barter, hearing this in the outer room, came
in with a pale-faced and excited alacrity. The
diamond merchant dismissed the boy with a
word.

1 "Well he said, turning the tip of his cigar
upwards by a protrusion of the under lip, ' what
is it ? '

About that little matter,' said young Barter
nervously, ' we were talking of last night.'

'The little matter we were talking of last
night ? ' asked Steinberg idly, looking at him with
half-shut eyes. ' That hundred you owe me ? '

'Well, perhaps that afterwards,' said Barter
with a frightened breathless laugh in his voice.
But about the other matter first.'

The other matter ? ' Steinberg asked, in a
glazier manner than before. ' What other matter ?'
He took up his pen, dipped it in the inkstand
before him, and tracing a line or two of his
correspondent's communication with it, turned to
his own unfinished letter.

Young Barter was already sufficiently agitated,
and this curious reception made him more embarrassed
than ever.

'About that affair of Bommaney's,' he said,
feeling as if a rapid wheel had been somehow
started in his brain.

Ah ! ' said Steinberg, writing rapidly, and

speaking in a voice which seemed to indicate that
he neither understood nor cared to understand,
1 that affair of Bommaney's, eh ? '

This reception was nothing less than dreadful
to the young criminal. He had reckoned on
having his way made easy for him. Steinberg
had actually offered to become his accomplice in
crime, and had lured him to disclosure. He
could have wished that the floor would open and
let him through. He saw that he had already
exposed his hand, and began to imagine all
manner of consequences resulting from the exposure.
Not one of the consequences he foresaw
promised to be of a nature agreeable to himself,
and for the moment the hatred with which Steinberg
inspired him was of so mad a nature that
there was nothing he would not have done to him
if he had had the courage and the power.

Steinberg wrote on, shaking his fist in what
seemed to be an unusual alert, and even threatening,
manner. There was a great deal of unnecessary

motion in Steinberg's hand, and Barter,
looking at its swift and resolute movements, got
a blind sort of impression of strength out of it,
and nullified the feeling with which it inspired
him. The letter written, enveloped, addressed,
and stamped, Steinberg tossed it on one side, and
leaning back in his arm-chair, turned an uninterested
look once more upon his visitor.

1 That affair of Bommaney's/ he said. ' What
was that ? '

Mr. Barter thought this inquiry altogether too
barefaced, and responded, with a hectic flush of
courage,

1 Come, Steinberg, don't play the fool with a
fellow. You know jolly well what it was last
night.'

Mr. Steinberg's keen and impassive face underwent
no change.

1 What did I know last night ? ' he asked.

1 You know,' Barter began angrily ; and then
the hectic flush of courage died, and a dreadful

chill of fear succeeded it. What had he known ?
He had only guessed — till now. But now,
young Mr. Barter felt, to employ the expressive
ideas of his set, that he had given himself away.
Steinberg capped the question in his mind.
What did I know last night ?

You haven't come to waste your time or
mine, T suppose ? You've come to say something.
Why not say it ? '

His guest, sitting in a terrible confusion, and
feeling himself altogether betrayed and lost,
Steinberg marched to the door, and addressing the
boy in the outer room, bade him carry the letter
to the post and return no more that day. Then,
having locked the outer door, he returned and
resumed his seat.

Now, what is it ? ' he asked.

Barter, recognising the fact that his own
purpose was already exposed, made a desperate
dash.

About those notes old Bommaney was supposed

to have run away with. I think — I think,
mind you, that if there was any way of using
them, I could lay my hands upon them.'

1 1 remember,' said Steinberg, ' you said something
of the kind last night. I shouldn't advise
you to touch 'em. It's a dangerous game.
They're very worthless, and the game isn't
worth the candle.'

'Worthless ?' echoed Barter. ' They're worth
eight thousand pounds.'

'They're worth eight thousand pounds,' responded
Steinberg, ' to the man they belong to.
They're not worth eight hundred to anybody else.'

Young Mr. Barter's whole soul seemed to rise
in protest against this abominable fallacy. When
he had screwed up his courage so far as to induce
himself to accept this older and more experienced
scoundrel's partnership, he had conceived the
possibility of the partner crying out for halves.
But that he should want so enormous a share of
the spoil was quite intolerable.

1 Not worth eight hundred ? ' He could only
gasp the questioning protest.

'If I had 'em to sell Steinberg answered
calmly, flicking the waste from his cigar by a
movement of his little finger, ' I should think
eight hundred an uncommon good price for 'em.
Later on and sold at second hand they might
fetch a thousand. Later on and sold at third
hand they might fetch fifteen hundred. One can
hardly tell. Of course the value will go on
mounting with distance from the original source
of danger and with the lapse of time.'

He said all this very calmly and reflectively,
and young Barter, collecting his whirling wits as
well as he could, tried a stroke of diplomacy,
which, as he fondly hoped, would answer a double
purpose.

1 She'll never let them go for that, or for anything
like it.'

1 She won't, won't she ? ' asked Steinberg,
smiling brightly, as if the statement amused him.

Then she'll never let 'em go at all, my friend.
How did yon come to find she had 'em ? '

I I made a little bit of a discovery,' Barter
answered.

Ah ! That was it, was it,' said the elder
rascal, falling back into his utter want of interest.
1 You'll let me have that hundred.'

I I will in a day or two,' answered Barter,
arrant.

'Well, as for a day or two returned Steinberg,
rubbing his forehead with the tips of his
fingers, and looking very careless and composed,
I'm really very much afraid I can't let you have
it. It's been outstanding a goodish time, and to
tell you the truth, old man, I want it very badly.
If you'll let me have it to-night I shall be obliged
to you. I've been hit rather hard this last day
or two. Shall we make that a bargain ? Tonight
? '

I — I'm afraid,' Barter stammered, * it's no use
talking about to-night.'

'Wel,' said Steinberg, with a pitiless uninterested
suavity, ■ you know the rules.'

He drew a little book from his pocket, and
tossed it over the table to his guest.

You'll find it on page five. Eule fourteen.
It's ticked in red ink, if you'll take the trouble
to look at it.'

Barter opened the book and consulted its
pages blindly for a while, and then the mist which
seemed to obstruct brain and eyesight clearing
away, he read the pages indicated. It set forth
the principle that all moneys lost at games of
skill or chance, or upon bets made within the
limits of the club, were payable within four-and-twenty
hours. It set forth further that debts
not paid within that time might be brought under
the notice of the Committee, who were empowered
to act under Eule nine. Eule nine ordained the
public posting of the defaulter's name, his suspension
in default of payment, and, in case of
continued obduracy or poverty, his expulsion.

VOL. I O

'First and last, Steinberg said the wretched
criminal, who began to find the way of the transgressor
unreasonably hard and thorny, ' first and
last, you've had a pretty tidy handful of money
out of me.'

Well, yes said Steinberg tangibly. * Pretty
fair

His very admission of this fact made Barter's
case seem hopeless to himself. If he had browbeaten,
or blustered, if he had shown anger or
impatience, or had been querulous, there might
have seemed to exist some slenderest chance for
him. But Steinberg was so unmoved that he
seemed immovable.

You'd better persuade her he said, with a
scarcely perceptible grin. Looking at Barter, and
observing that he sat with his eyes still bent upon
the book of rules, and head dejected, he allowed
the grin to broaden. Barter, suddenly looking
up at him, saw him smiling like a gargoyle, with
a look of infinitely relishing cruelty and cunning.

You won't find her hard to persuade, I'm
sure said Steinberg. ■ Come, now, I'll talk
business to you. I'll take ten of 'em for it, and
cry quits, and I wouldn't do that for anybody buta
friend.'

The frank admission of the value of his own
friendship was plainly legible in that gargoyle
smile, and the unhappy Barter read it clearly.

Til — I'll see what I can do with her,' he
said, with a face and voice of pure misery.

Do, my boy,' said Steinberg, rising, and
swinging the key of his chambers upon his forefinger,
' see what you can do with her. I shan't
send any notification to the Committee before nine
o'clock, old chap. You can trust me for that.
You go off at once, old fellow, and see what you
can do for her.'

The fraudulent possessor of the notes felt
their burthen more than ever insupportable. He
rose, and went his way with remorse and rage
and the bitterness of baffled stratagem in his

heart. His wounded mind soared to so lofty a
height of egotism in its struggles that he positively
found the impudence to curse Bommaney
for having dropped the notes in his office. Then
he cursed himself for having taken them, and
cursed Steinberg for robbing him, and so moved
off in a condition quite pitiable to one who could
find the understanding and the heart to pity him.

Steinberg stopped behind, and smoked smilingly.
He was the successful scoundrel, and
found the transaction as sweet as the young Barter
found it bitter.

I don't think he'll have much trouble with
her,' he said to himself; and he enjoyed that
little jest so much that he caught himself smiling
at it a hundred times in the course of the afternoon
and evening.

Old Brown, who was one of the sunniest-natured
of men, went gloomy when the news of his old
friend's dreadful fall came to his ears. It does
him no more than justice to say that he mourned
Bommaney senior infinitely more than the money.
He liked to trust people, and had all his life long
been eager to find excuses for defaulters. He
could find no excuse here. The theft was barefaced,
insolent, dastardly. He puzzled over it,
and grew more cynical and bitter in his thoughts
of the world at large than he could have imagined
himself. But then, when Bommaney junior
came home, and insisted on the restoration of the
missing eight thousand from his own small fortune,
old Brown brightened up again. There was

such a thing as honesty in the world, after all.
The restoration warmed his heart anew. At first
he fought against it, and would have none of it —
the mere candid and honest offer of it was enough
for him ; but Philip was more resolute than himself,
and the stronger man won. Phil should
never have cause to repent his goodness, the old
fellow declared to himself a thousand times. He
should reap the proper reward of his own honour.
Brown admired and loved Phil out of bounds for
this little bit of natural honesty and justice. He
thought there had never been a finer fellow in
the world, and his heart warmed to him as if he
had been a son of his own. As for that rascal
of a father — and when he got so far in his
thoughts he fumed so with wrath that he dared
go no farther, and was compelled, for the sake of
his own peace, to banish the friend of his schooldays
from his mind a thousand times a week.

It was about a year later than the disgrace of
the house of Bommaney that old Brown, to his

daughter's perplexity and grief, began to show
signs of trouble almost as marked as those he had
displayed after his old friend's defection. The
old boy's newspaper no longer interested him of
a morning. He began to be lax about that morning
ride which he had once regarded as being
absolutely necessary to the preservation of health
in London. He had been impassioned with the
theatre, and had become a diligent attendant at
first-night performances. Even these ceased to
have any joy for him, and he neglected, in fine,
all his old sources of amusement. He went
about sorrowful and grumpy, expressing the dole-fullest
opinions about everything. There was
going to be war, stocks were going down, trade
was crumbling, there was no virtue in man.

Patty tried her best to coax him from these
pessimistic moods, but the old boy was not to be
persuaded. On fine evenings, when there was
nothing better to be done, he had loved greatly,
between the quiet old-fashioned tea and the quiet

old-fashioned supper, to dress for out of doors, and
with Patty on his arm to wander into Regent's
Park, and there inhale the best imitation of
country atmosphere that London could afford.
He dropped this amiable and affectionate habit,
and took to rambling out alone, coming home
late, and haggard, and not infrequently, at such
times, staring at his daughter with an aspect so
sorrowing and wretched that she knew not what
to make of him.

The girl, watching him with a constantly increasing
solicitude, could at last endure this condition
of affairs no longer. He came home one
night, leaving neither his stick nor hat in the
outer hall, and sat down in the dining-room,
muffled and great-coated, the picture of dejection.
Patty, kneeling before him, removed his hat,
smoothed his hair, and began to unbutton his
overcoat.

Papa ! ' she cried suddenly, ' what is the
matter with you ? Why are you so changed ? '

He breathed a great sigh, and laid his hand
upon her head. Then he turned his face away
from her — to hide his eyes, she fancied.

You are in trouble,' she went on. ' It is not
kind to keep it from me. Is it anything that I
have done, or anything I could do ? '

No, no, my darling,' he said softly, laying his
hand upon her head again.

Is it money, dear ? '

'No, no. It. isn't money. Don't talk about
it, my dear. Don't talk about it'

Now, papa, you make me think it very grave
indeed.'

There,' he said, rising, ' you shan't see anymore
of it, and we'll say no more about it. We'll
be gay and bright again, and we'll hope that
things will turn out for the best

The attempt to be gay and bright again resulted
in most mournful failure, and the girl grew
frightened. She had nursed her fears for many
days, and had hidden them.

Papa ! ' she said, trembling ever so little,
1 you must let me know what it is. Let us bear
it together, dear. Whatever it may be it can't
matter very much if it leaves us two together —
and '

1 Ah ! ' said old Brown, looking at her with a
pitying smile.

Is it anything ■ ? ' She stopped short,

and really found no courage to complete the
question.

My darling he answered, folding her in his
arms, and staring sadly over her shoulder. She
felt the hands that embraced her quiver, and she
knew he had understood her half-expressed query.
This frightened her so much that it gave her
boldness.

There is something the matter with Phil
she said, pushing the old man away, and holding
him at arm's length. ' Tell me what it is

My dear he answered, ' you shouldn't leap
at conclusions in that way.' But the disclaimer

was altogether too feeble to deceive her. Philip
was the mysterious cause of her father's trouble.
Her wandering, pained eyes, her parted lips, the
terror and inquiry in her face, frightened the
old man. ' No, no,' he cried, c you must not
think it too bad. I'm not sure of anything.
I don't suppose it's at all a matter of consequence.
I daresay he's an old fool. I hope
lam.'

These hints and innuendoes were about the
last thing in the world to satisfy a girl who had
been made anxious about her lover.

1 Tell me,' she commanded. ' I have a right
to know. What has happened ? ' She was no
more inclined to be jealous than girls who are in
love commonly are. She had, indeed, a native
fund of confidence, and her trust in Phil's loyalty
had been of the unquestioning sort, quite profound
and settled. Yet for a moment there rose
before her mental vision the dim picture of some
possible rival, and at the mere hint of this she

grew ashamed, and named into indignation against
herself.

Tell me she said ; ' I insist on knowing.'

'Well, my dear,' said the old man miserably
and reluctantly, 'I've been told that his
father hastened his own ruin with dice and cards.'
It was the first time he had mentioned Bomb
senior in his daughter's hearing for a
year. She looked at him with eyes still intent,
but somehow milder and less alarmed. ' Phil,'
the old boy continued, 'I'm afraid that Phil is
travelling in his father's steps.'

Phil a gambler ! ' she said, with an honest
scorn of conviction. ' I know better. What
makes you think it ? '

'There are a lot of beastly clubs at the West
End,' said the old man, beginning to struggle with
his overcoat, partly because he wished to avoid
the girl's look, and partly because the motion
was a relief to him. ' Gambling-places. Places
where men meet for no other earthly purpose

than to cheat one another. I'm as fond of a
rubber at whist as anybody ; but no honest man
would put his head into one of those holes of
infamy if he knew its character.'

1 Are you speaking of Phil, papa ? ' she asked.
Her voice was low and tremulous, and there was
almost a note of threatening in it. The gentlest
creature will fight for her own — a fact for which
some of us have reason to be grateful.

'Yes, my dear,' her father answered with a
kind of sullen sadness ; ' I'm talking about Phil.
He's a member of the vilest crowd of the whole
lot, and he's there night after night.' He dashed
his overcoat into an arm-chair with despairing
anger, and went marching up and down the room.
I saw him one night by accident as he was
going in. I knew the place. You might have
knocked me down with a feather. I've watched
him there night after night. Don't tell me I
hadn't the right to watch him. I had the right.
My little girl shan't marry a gambler. I won't

have my fortune wasted by a gambler, and my
child's heart broken. I took a room he pursued
wrathfully, ' opposite the place. I've sat there in
the dark with the window open, and caught the

d worst cold I ever had in my life watching

for him. I've seen him go in again and again.
He's a lost man, I tell you,' he cried in answer
to his daughter's look and gesture ; ' the man who
has that vice in his blood is lost ! '

He was storming loudly, for he was one of
those in whom emotion must have expression in
noise, but a sudden loud peal at the bell cut short
his harangue, and he and Patty stood in silence
to know who it might be who called so late. As
it happened, it was no other than the lost man
himself. He was shown in according to wont
and usage without previous announcement, and
entered gay and smiling, elate and tender.

As he looked from one to the other the expression
of his face changed. He moved quickly
towards Patty, and took her hands in his.

There's something the matter,' he said gently.
You're in trouble ! '

The old boy glaring at him, growled, 'wye
are and snatching up his overcoat, threw it over
his arm, and slipped his hat upon his head with a
gesture which Philip took for one of defiance. Asa
matter of fact it expressed no more than wrathful
grief, but then gesture and expression are hard
to read unless you have the key to them.

\Ye'd better have it out, Phil,' said the old
man, 'here and now. You've turned gambler,
and I've found you out.'

No,' Phil answered, with an odd smile, ' I
haven't turned gambler, I assure you. You've
heard that I've joined the Pigeon Trap ? That's
what they call it in the City. I prefer to call it
the Hawks' Roost. There are too few pigeons go
there to be plucked to justify the other title, and
I give you my word of honour, Mr. Brown, that
I'm not one of them.'

The young man's air was candid and amused.

There was an underlying gravity beneath the
smile, and for people who had believed in him as
devoutly as his two listeners it was hard to disbelieve
him now.

You've gone into the infernal hole said old
Brown, more than half abandoning suspicion, and
yet inclined to leave it growlingly, as a dog might
surrender a bone he conceived himself to have a
right to. ' What do you want there ? '

1 1 want to do a very important stroke of business
there, sir,' Philip answered. The smile quite
disappeared from his eyes at this moment, and he
looked very grimly resolute. ' I will tell you
this much,' he added, ' because you have a right
to know it. I am in pursuit of a brace of
scoundrels there. I think I've salted the tail of
one of 'em already. I believe with all my heart,
sir, that I'm going to clear my father's character,
and I would go into worse places than the Pigeon
Trap if I saw my way to doing that.'

Patty of course was clinging to him without

disguise by this time, anxious only to atone for
having given an ear to any word against him,
even for a moment. Phil put his arm about her
waist and kissed her. He had never to his
knowledge performed this act in the presence of
a third person until now, but he got through it
without embarrassment.

1 You think you can clear your father's character
? ' asked his sweetheart's father. There was
a tinge of scepticism in his voice, though he tried
to hide it.

Yes, sir said Phil, his head thrown back a
little, and his eyes gleaming. Nobody had ever
looked so handsome to Patty's fancy as he did at
that moment. ' I know already that there was
no real stain upon his honour, and I'm surprised
myself for thinking that there ever could have
been, bad as things looked. My father never
took wrongful possession of your money. He
was robbed of it, and I think I can lay my hand
upon the thief

vol. I p

There was a prodigious excitement at this
declaration, and the young man was overwhelmed
with questions. He could name no names, of
course, and give no clue, but he sketched the
story. He contented himself by describing young
Barter as Thief Number One, and he was satisfied
to describe Steinberg as Probable Thief
Number Two. He had learned, it appeared, that
Thief Number One had succeeded on his father's
death to a carefully limited partnership in a
business affair in the city. The guiding spirit in
the concerns of Thief Number One had been his
father's managing clerk. The income of Thief
Number One was strictly limited, and his actual
control over the affairs of the firm was nonexistent.
Notwithstanding these facts, the young
man was guilty of countless extravagances, and
was a reckless gambler. Within the last twelvemonths
he could hardly have paid away at the
club less than a thousand pounds. He had been
extremely hard up before the loss of the money,

and it was in his offices that the roll of bank-notes
had been lost. As for Probable Thief Number
Two, he played rook to Juniper One's pigeon.
He had a visible hold upon him ; Xurnber One
trembled before him, and did what he was bidden
to do. Xurnber Two had plenty of money, and
as shady a reputation as any man in London
who was not among the known criminal classes.
Phil's belief was that Xurnber Two was disposing
of the notes for Xurnber One, and that this
simple fact accounted for his power over him.

And I'm going to follow their track,' said
Phil, tapping the clenched knuckles of his right
hand upon the open palm of his left with a quiet
vehemence, ' until I find out everything, if I
follow it until I am gray.'

It would appear that a spider may be among
the most daring, skilful, and predatory of his
species, that he may be gifted with the most constant
watchfulness and appetite, and yet, whether
by the intrusion of an accidental walking-stick
or broom (which would assuredly seem providential
to the fly), or by stress of weather, or the
desperate activity of a victim, may have his best
laid schemes brought to nought, and his most
mathematically laid web rent to tatters. In the
entomological world a solitary interview between
fly and spider is usually fatal to the one, and
satisfactory to the other. But we of the higher
developments, who model ourselves, or are
modelled, upon the lines of myriads of remote

ancestors, and far-away relatives, have refined
upon their primitive proceedings, and have made
their simple activities complex by development.

In an absolutely primitive condition the
Steinberg spider would have drained the Barter
fly at a single orgie, and would have left him to
wither on the lines. As things were, he came back
to him with a constant gusto of appetite, tasting
him on Monday, despatching him to buzz among
his fellows until Saturday, and then tasting him
again, the Barter fly seeming for a while — for
quite a considerable time in fact — lusty and
active and able-bodied, and looking as though
this kind of thing might go on for ever without
much damage to him, and the spider himself
giving no sign of overtaxed digestive powers.

Not to run this striking and original simile
out of breath, the Barter fly endured for a round
twelve months, without showing signs of anaemia
so pronounced as to look dangerous to his constitution.
At the end of that time, however, all

the surplus blood had been drawn from his body,
and the spider had grown so keen by the habit
of constant recurrence to him that any prolonged
connection between them began to look desperate.
In plain English, the eight thousand pounds
which had once so lightly passed from the hands
of Mr. Brown to the hands of Mr. Bommaney
had now passed, with just as little profit to the
man who parted with them, from the hands of
young Barter to the hands of Steinberg.

It was just about the time when this lingering
but inevitable transaction was completed that
chance led young Barter to his encounter with
the son of the man whose belongings he had
appropriated. Everybody knows how apt newly-made
acquaintances sometimes are to renew themselves
again and again. You meet a man whom
you have never seen before, see him just long
enough to take a passing interest in him, and to
know generally who and what he is, and you run
against him on the morrow, and again on the

morrow, and so on, until in a week he has grown
as familiar to your thoughts as any other mere
acquaintance of whose identity you may have
been aware for years. This happened in the
case of Philip Bommaney and young Mr. Barter.
They entered the Inn together, or left it together,
or Philip ran upstairs or downstairs as Barter
was in the very act of leaving or entering his
chambers. Putting together a certain family
resemblance which he thought he noticed, the
identity of a rather uncommon name, and the
curious frequency of these chance encounters,
Barter found it hard to avoid the belief that his
new-made acquaintance had a rather careful eye
upon him. His nerve was a good deal shaken,
and he was by no means the man he had been.
To the unobservant stranger the frank gaiety of
his laugh was as spontaneous as ever, but then
that had never had much to do with Barter's
inward sensations. Perhaps he got the laugh
in some remote fashion from an ancestor who

really ought to have had it, and who may have
been as dull and as little laughter-loving to look
at as his successor was within. Philip rather
took to the fellow at first sight, and was slow to
suspect him, even when James Hornettt had told
his story. But the young Barter was not satisfied,
as he should have been, with playing the
part of one insect at a time. It was unwholesome
enough, one might have thought, for him to
play fly to Steinberg's spider, and yet he must
needs take to playing moth to Philip Bommaney's
candle, a light of danger to him, as he recognised
almost from the first. He was always polite to
Phil, and always stopped him for a moment's
conversation at their chance encounters. Phil,
having been inspired at least with a suspicion
that this engaging young man was responsible for
the actual disgrace which had fallen upon Bomb
senior, always bent a grave scrutiny upon
him. Barter sometimes wondered whether his
new-found acquaintance's way of looking at him

were habitual or particular, but he could never
solve that problem. To Barter's nerves the glance
of dispassionate analysis always seemed to ask —
Did you steal those notes ? and whether his mind
and nerves were at accord or no made but little
difference to him. His mind rejected the idea
of suspicion, but his nerves accepted it with
trembling. He knew perfectly well that he
could not endure the certainty of Phil Bomb
knowledge, but none the less he found
the uncertainty tantalising and painful. This is
perhaps one of the hardest things an undetected
criminal has to endure, that he lives in a world
of suspicion of his own making, where every
imagination is real and as dreadful as the
fact. In his own mind young Barter credited
himself with courage when he made overtures for
Philip's companionship. In reality he made the
overtures because he was a coward, and a braver
scoundrel would have disdained them.

Philip felt himself impelled to watch this

young man, and was not altogether displeased
that he found the opportunity thrust upon him.
Almost facing the gateway of the old Inn there
is an old-fashioned restaurant, deserted from its
hour of opening until noon, and from then
crowded inconveniently till two o'clock, deserted
again till five, and once more inconveniently
crowded till seven. Philip, having the power to
choose his own time for meals, and frequenting
this old house, sometimes met Barter in the act
of coming away from it with the dregs of the
stream of the late luncheon or diners. He fell
into the habit of going a little earlier, and Barter
would signal him to the table at which he sat, if
by rare chance there happened to be a vacant
seat at it. The young rascal's tendency lay
towards monologue, and since it was his cue to
be open-hearted, and very unsuspicious of being
suspected, he talked with much freedom of himself,
his pursuits, and his affairs. The question
which Barter's nerves were always finding in

Philip's eyes was, as a matter of fact, not often
absent from his mind. ' Now, how did you steal
those notes ? ' was the one active query of his
intelligence as he listened to Barter's candid
prattle.

It was in the course of these confidences that
Philip learned of the existence of that Pigeon
Trap of which Mr. Barter was so proud to be an
inhabitant. It was at Barter's solicitation that
he visited the place, and it was Barter who proposed
him as a member. Being a member it was
not long before he discovered the fact of Steinberg's
influence over the young solicitor. He
noticed a terrified deference in Barter's manner
towards the other, a frightened alacrity of obedience
to his suggestions. He noticed also that
Steinberg and Barter played a good deal by themselves,
and that Barter always lost.

The men of Hawks' Boost talked pretty freely
about each other in the absence of such of their
fellow clubmen as were under discussion. Barter

Was spoken of as Steinberg's Mug, Berg's Juggins,
Stein's Spoofmarker. It was generally admitted
that Stein made a good thing out of him, and
the wonder was where Barter got his money.
There was a pretty general apprehension that the
young man, at no very far future date, would
come to grief. The contemplation of this probability
affected the Monsters but little in an
emotional way, but it made them keen to see that
Mr. Barter paid up punctually, and though they
were very shy of paper acceptances from their
comrades as a general thing, they were shyer of
his than of most men's.

These things Philip Bommaney junior attentively
noted. At first the clubmen rather wondered
at him. He was in their precincts often,
and would smoke his pipe and watch whatever
game might be going with tranquil interest, but
he never played, and could not be induced to bet.
Que diable faisant-il dans cette satire ? the clubmen
wanted to know. He never told them, and

in a while they grew accustomed to him and his
ways. He continued his quiet watch upon Mr.
Barter, and included Steinberg in his field of
observation. One evening, dining at the old
restaurant, he marked Barter, melancholy and
alone. He was sitting in an attitude of apparent
dejection, tapping upon the table with a fork, and
deep sunk in what seemed to be an uncomfortable
contemplation. But when the moth saw his
candle he brightened, and fluttered over to it,

'You might come over,' said Barter, when
they had sat together until the latest of the
dining guests had gone away. ' You might come
over to my chambers and smoke a cigar if you've
nothing else to do. I don't care about going
down to the club to-night.'

The Steinberg spider was supposed to be waiting
there, coldly patient and insatiable, and
Barter dreaded him. Philip had never entered
the rooms, but they had an attraction for him.
He accepted his companion's invitation, and they

entered the chambers together. A fire lingered
in the grate, and Barter replenished it, and,
having produced a box of cigars and a bottle of
cognac, proffered refreshment to his guest. The
honest man began somewhat to recoil from himself
and from his companion. What was he
there for ? The answer was pretty evident.
There was nothing between this loud-babbling
youth and himself which could have drawn them
into even a momentary comradeship, if it had not
been for the suspicion his father's story had inspired
in him. Frankly, he was there because
he suspected the man, because he desired to watch
him, because, if he found the chance, he was willing
to set him in the dock. To smoke his
tobacco and drink his liquor in those circumstances
had undoubtedly an air of treachery. In a while
he hardened himself, and closed his ears to all
casuist pleadings, whether for or against the course
he had adopted. He would clear his father if he
could, and if there were any mere hope of doing

it, he would watch this fellow as a cat watches a
mouse, and would go on doing it until both of
them were gray.

1 By the way said Barter innocently, ' do you
never take a hand at '

His supple fingers supplied the hiatus, dealing
out an imaginary pack of cards with the
flourishing dexterity native to them.

1 That's what I'm here for, is it ? ' thought
Philip in his own mind. ' We shall see.' He
said aloud, ' Sometimes,' in an indifferent tone.

1 There's nothing worth seeing anywhere tonight,'
said young Barter. ' Suppose we try
a hand. What do you say to a game at
Napoleon ? '

Philip consented, and his host produced two
packs of cards from the business safe.

They fixed upon the points and they began to
play. The points were not those for which Mr.
Barter really cared to play ; for he was one of
those people who find no joy in cards unless they

risk more than they can afford to lose. But
little fish are sweet, and he thought he had
secured a greenhorn. As it happened, the greenhorn,
though he was but eight-and-twenty, had
travelled the world all over, and had found himself
compelled to survey mankind from China to Peru.
He was, moreover, one of those men who like to
know things, and those quietly-observant eyes of
his had taken note of the proceedings of a hundred
scoundrels in whose hands the redoubtable
Steinberg himself would have had but poor
chances. The Greek had been Philip's standing
joy, the dish best spiced to suit his intellectual
palate. He had delighted over him aboard ship,
on the monstrous dreary railway journey between
Atlantic and Pacific, in the little towns which
form the centre of scores of Texan ranches, in
hells at the Cape and in California, in the free
ports of China, and on the borders of the Bosphorus.
In point of fact he was by experience
as little fitted to be played upon by a gentleman

of young Mr. Barter's limited accomplishments as
almost any man alive.

Phil's interest in the game had grown grimly
observant in the first ten minutes. Young Mr.
Barter had a knack, when he shuffled the cards,
of slyly inclining the painted sides upwards. He
had another knack of leaving an honour at the
bottom. He made a false cut with fair dexterity
for an amateur. He could, when occasion seemed
to make it profitable, discard with a fair air of
unconsciousness. An ace dropped out of sight
a hand or two earlier, was followed by a valueless
card dropped openly. The ace was taken to
supply its place with a perfect smiling effrontery.
But Mr. Barter's favourite trick came out when
he had a weak hand. Then he smiled across at
his opponent, breathed softly the words ' six
cards,' and dropped the worthless hand on the
top of the pack, calling for a new deal. All this
Philip Bommaney watched with a complete seeming
innocence and good temper. He lost his six-vol.

I Q

pence handsomely, made no protest, and looked
unruffled.

1 You play false for sixpences, do you ? ' he
said inwardly. c I suppose a scoundrel is a
scoundrel all through, and that if you'll sell your
soul for so little, you could hardly object to driving
a bargain for a larger sum.'

He was often tempted in the course of a
quarter of an hour to try Mr. Barter with a
sudden challenge, and see what would come of it.
Surveying his companion with that placid inquiry
which Barter felt to be so excessively uncomfortable,
he came to have but a poor opinion of his
courage. He was one of those men who, even
without knowing it, take profound observations
of their fellow-creatures. The true observer of
human nature is by no means a personage who is
always on the strain after insight into character.
He is, on the contrary, pretty generally an inward-looking
man, who seems to notice little, and takes
in his surroundings as the immortal Joey Ladle

did his wine. Philip judged Barter to be a
nervous man, and supposed him, even when
strung to his bent, to have no great tenacity or
continuance of courage. He had learned more
and more to believe his father's story, though he
had perhaps too carefully guarded himself from
his own eager desire to accept it. Barter's every
action with the cards offered confirmation of the
belief that he had taken possession of the lost
notes. He was certainly a petty rascal, and
there was obviously nothing but opportunity
needed to make him bloom into a rascal on a
larger scale. So the temptation to drop the cards
upon the table, to look his companion in the face,
and to ask simply, ' How about that eight
thousand pounds ? ' grew more and more upon
him, and had to be more and more strenuously
resisted. It seemed worth while to resist it. To
begin with, if young Barter should be innocent,
the querist could evidently expect nothing else
than to be taken for a madman. To continue, if

his name and the likeness to his father had
already set the thief upon his guard, and had prepared
him for accusation, the question would only
reveal his own suspicion, and thereby weaken the
chances of discovery.

Philip combated his inward desire, but could
not quell it. There seemed a kind of intuition
in it, a lurking certainty lay hidden behind all
the doubts he saw, and pushed him forward.

By and by young Mr. Barter tripped on the
false cut, which he had hitherto executed with a
fair amateur dexterity.

'Excuse me,' said Phil, as he gathered the
spilt cards together. 'You should make the
three separate motions look like one. Do the
trick so.'

He performed the trick slowly, looking Barter
in the face, and then went through it swiftly.

That is how the thing ought to be done, Mr.
Barter,' he said, with a placidity which his companion
found singularly disquieting.

And now, that same unhappy want of self-command
which had given Steinberg so clear an
insight into his young friend's mind, fell once
more upon Barter. He tried to look wondering,
he tried to laugh. The result of that frightened
contortion of the features was nothing less than
ghastly. Unhappily for himself he knew it, and
so he grew ghastlier yet, and for the life of him
could not tell where to set his eyes.

So you're a sharper in a small way, are you,
Mr. Barter ? ' Philip inquired suavely.

1 How dare you talk to me like that ? ' the
detected rascal stammered. ' You come into a
gentleman's rooms, and lose an odd half-crown
or two '

"When he had got as far as this he ventured
to look his companion in the face, and seeing
there a very marked and readable prophecy of
unpleasant things, he backed, and in the act of
doing so, tripped, and fell into a chair. The intention
in Phil's mind became simply unconquerable.

He cast rapidly about him for an instant,
saw all the consequences of failure which might
follow if he denounced the trembling wretch at
once, and set him on his guard. And yet he
could not help doing what he did, and could not
restrain the words which rose to his lips. He
took Barter by the collar, and lifted him to his
feet with an unsuspected strength, and put the
question to him quietly.

'How many of those stolen notes has Steinberg
changed for you ? '

It was a bold thing to do, it was perhaps a
foolish thing to do, and yet it was the game.
Barter stared at him speechlessly. His lips
moved, but he said nothing. Then his jaw fell
as a dead man's jaw falls, and being released at
that instant, he dropped into the chair like a sack.

'Now the best thing for you to do,' said Phil,
sternly regarding him, ' will be to make a clean
breast of it. I have been tracking you since the
second day of our acquaintance.'

Barter groaned, with a tremulous and hollow
sound, but made no other answer.

How many of those notes are in Steinberg's
hands ? ' Phil asked.

The rascal's wits had begun to work again, if
only a little, and he could by this time have
answered if he would. But he knew that his
own cowardice, if nothing else, had given away
the game. After such a confession as his own
teiTor had made, what was the use of bluster or
pretence ? He could not guess how much was
known. He was completely cornered, and must
fight or yield. His native instinct at any
moment was ready to teach him how much discretion
was the better part of valour, and now to
fight seemed mere madness. In the very terror
of the night which thus suddenly enveloped him
he saw one gleam of hope. There was one stroke
to be made which might save him, in part at
least, from the consequences of his own misdeed.


Philip gave these reflections but little time to
grow distinct to Barter's mind.

How many of those notes ? ' he asked slowly,
emphasising almost every word by a tap of his
knuckles upon the table, ' have passed into Steinberg's
hands ? '

All,' gasped Barter ; ' every one of them ! '

That will do for the present,' said Philip, and
at that instant there came a loud summons at the
door, whereat the miserable Barter started, and
clasped his hands in renewed terror. He fancied
an officer of justice there, his arrival accurately
timed.

Philip, throwing a glance about the room, and
assuring himself that there was no means of unobserved
exit, answered the summons in person.
He had until that moment kept perfect possession
of himself except for his obedience to that
overmastering intuition, but beholding Mr. Steinberg
at the doorway he felt a great leap at his
heart, and a sudden dryness in his throat. He

examined these phenomena afterwards, and
decided in his own mind that they were assignable
to fear. He came to the belief which he
cherishes until now, that he had to screw up his
courage pretty tightly before he could face the
idea of confronting the partners in rascality together.
But here it may be observed in passing
that this kind of self-depreciation is a favourite
trick with men of unusual nerve, and is rarely
resorted to by any but the most courageous.

Steinberg recognised him by the light of the
gas-lamp.

1 Good-evenings he said, nodding. ' Barter's
here, I suppose.'

1 Sir,' said Phil, with recovered coolness, a certain
light of humour dawning in his mind, 'Mr.
Barter is within, and I have no doubt will be
very happy to see yon.'

Steinberg cast a sidelong glance at him, and
entered. Phil closed the door, and followed close
upon his heels. Barter, with his pale complexion

fallen to the tint of dead ashes, sat huddled in
the arm-chair, staring white-eyed like a frightened
madman. Steinberg stared back at him in sheer
amazement at his looks, and Phil, closing the
door, turned the key in the lock and pocketed it.

Hill ! ' cried Steinberg, turning swiftly round
at the click, ' what's this mean ? ' He measured
Philip with his eye — a very evil and wicked
eye it was — and dropped back a step or two.

What's this mean ? ' Steinberg asked again,
his quick glance darting from one to the other.

It means, sir,' said Phil, with a glad tranquillity,
'that your fellow-scoundrel, the courageous
gentleman in the arm-chair there, is in
the act of making his confession.'

Steinberg sent one savage glance at Barter, and
then dashed at him, and planting both hands within
the collar of his shirt, so banged him to and fro that
he would inevitably have done him a mischief of
a serious sort but for Phil's intervention. The
method of intervention was less tranquil than

Philip's motion up to this time had been. He
tore Steinberg from his grip of the betrayer with
a force he had no time to measure, and hurled
him across the room. He staggered at the door,
and his head coming noisily in contact with it,
he slipped down into a sitting posture with an
expression suddenly changed from ferocity to a
complete vacuity and indifference.

Now Mr. Barter, scared as he had been, and
shaken to his centre, had begun to think again,
and when he saw that Steinberg's chance in the
enemy's hands was less than nothing, that fact
formed as it were the last necessary plank for the
raft of safety he desired to construct. He got
up from his place, animated by this great idea,
and staggering to the helpless Steinberg, fell
down beside him and gripped his hands.

Tie him, Mr. Bommaney, tie him 1 ' gurgled
Barter. ■ He's been the ruin of me, curse him.
I should have been an honest man if it hadn't
been for him. It's him that led me into it, and

he's had every sixpence of the money. I've
been his tool, his miserable tool. Tie him, Mr.
Bommaney, before he comes round again. I'll
hold him for you.'

One may get good advice from the most unexpected
quarter, and whencesoever good advice
may come it is worth while to follow it. Phil
took a dandy scarf from Steinberg's own neck,
and tied him tightly, wrist to wrist. Then he
helped him to his feet, and set him in a chair.

He came here to-night,' Barter gurgled on,
with tears of sincerest penitence, ' to bleed me
again. He's got my I.O.U. for £82 he cheated
me of last week. He's had every penny of
the money. I haven't had so much as a single
farthing of it myself. I'll swear I haven't.'

1 That's your lay, is it ? ' said Steinberg, whose
scattered wits were coming back to him. ' You
shall answer for this violence in the proper quarter,
Bommaney.'

I will answer for it in the proper quarter,'

Phil replied. ' I will trouble you, Mr. Steinberg,
to come to the proper quarter now.'

1 You won't forget,' said Barter, ' that I helped
to capture him. You'll speak a word for me,
Mr. Bornmaney ? I've been that villain's victim
all along. I should never have gone wrong if it
hadn't been for him, and I've wanted to send the
money back over and over again, but he got it
into his own hands and wouldn't listen to it, and
after all I never took the money, Mr. Bommaney
I only found it. It was Steinberg kept it.
He said I should be a fool to let it go.'

AYhat sentiments of contempt and rage inspired
Mr. Steinberg's bosom at this juncture
must be imagined. He looked them all, but
verbally expressed none of them.

1 Get up,' said Phil, addressing him. Steinberg
obeyed. ' Take a seat in that corner.'
Steinberg obeyed again. ' Now you — ' to Barter,
take a place in that corner, behind the desk.'

With pleasure, Mr. Bommaney,' said Barter,

with the very greatest willingness. I desire to
make no resistance to the law. I helped to
capture the criminal. Please remember that,
Mr. Bommaney. Pray remember that.'

He took hold of a heavy ruler which happened
to be lying on the desk, and deeming that he and
the other rascal were about to be left alone
together, he showed it shakily to Steinberg, as a
hint that he was not without means of protection
against a man unarmed and bound.

Phil unlocked the door, inserted the key on
the other side, disappeared, and turned the lock
anew. The two criminals heard his footstep
sounding elate, triumphant, and threatening to
their ears as he went along the boarded floor.
They listened as the footstep crossed the square
boulders of the courtyard, and listened still until
their sound melted into the blended noises of the
outer street. A minute later the step was
heard returning, accompanied by another, solid
and terrible. They knew it, and their hearts,

low as they were already, sank at it. The door
opened and Phil reappeared, followed by a
policeman.

1 1 give these two in charge the young man
said, 'the one as the thief, the other as the
receiver of a bundle of bank-notes of the value of
eight thousand pounds, the property of my father,
Mr. Philip Bommaney, of Comforter's Alley.'

I'm quite willing to go without resistance
said Mr. Barter from behind the table. ' I assisted
in the capture, and I am ready to say anything.'

1 That's the first true word you've spoken
Steinberg snarled. c You can take this thing off
holding out his hands. ' I'll go quietly. I can
get bail in an hour.'

Don't have it taken off, Mr. Bommaney, not
if we're to travel in the same vehicle. He
threatened me while you were away. He said if
they gave him fifty years he'd kill me when he
came out again. He'll do it, because I made a
clean breast of it, didn't I, Mr. Bommaney ? I

made a clean breast of it, officer. I'm ready to
tell everything. He's ruined me, and now he
says he'll kill me because I'm ready to make a
clean breast of it.'

I choose to be taken separately, if you please.
I myself will pay the fare. I won't travel with
that cackling idiot.'

I will go with Mr. Bommaney with pleasure,'
said the penitent. ' I'll go with you with pleasure
anywhere. I'd rather go with you a great deal.'

It Twas hardly to be expected that Philip
should feel very warmly towards either of his
two companions, but of the two he disliked
Steinberg the less. And, since it seemed humane
and reasonable to choose, he chose Steinberg as
his travelling companion. The officer set Steinberg's
hat upon his head, and the quartet set out.
The sight of a man with his hands tightly bound
with a scarlet muffler gathered a momentary
little crowd at the Inn gate ; but, a pair of hansoms
being summoned, captives and captors were

speedily relieved from vulgar observation. The
station reached, it turned out that the communicative
Mr. Barter, in the exuberance of his heart,
had exposed to the officer 091 route the whereabouts
of the lost notes. He declared that to his
knowledge they rested in a safe, the position of
which he indicated, in Steinberg's Hatton Garden
office. The Inspector before whom the charge
was made deemed this intelligence worthy of
being acted on at once. The two prisoners were
searched, and Mr. Barter was so good as to point
out, among Steinberg's keys, those which were
necessary for the purposes of investigation. He
even went so far as to offer his assistance as
guide ; but this was declined with a chilliness
singularly at variance with the solicitous warmth
of the proposal.

I think, sir said the Inspector, with an
arctic disrespect which was so frozen as to be
almost respectful, ' that we can manage this
without your assistance.'

vol. 1 R

The Divisional Superintendent, being communicated
with by telephone, arrived upon the
scene. The matter in hand having been laid
before him with curt official brevity, he asked for
the keys, called to himself a constable, and was
preparing to set out, when Philip begged permission
to accompany him.

The notes, sir,' he said, ' were left in my
father's trust by a dear old friend of his. My
father himself was supposed to have made use of
them — a thing of which he was incapable. If I
can take to him the news that they are found, I
can lift a load of undeserved disgrace from the
mind of an honourable man.'

I shall be pleased to have your company,
Mr. Bommaney,' the Superintendent answered,
touched a little by the young man's earnestness.
So the three got into a four-wheeler, and bowled
away to Hatton Garden, and there made entry
into the chambers lately occupied by Mr. Steinberg.
There was no gas here, but the constable's

dark lantern showed the way. It revealed the
safe in the position the communicative criminal
had assigned to it. It revealed the notes, snugly
spread out in one crisp little heap, and arranged
with business-like precision in the order of their
numbers.

This golden spectacle once seen, Phil dashed into
the street, hailed a hansom, and drove pell-mell,
exciting the cabman who conducted him by the
promise of a double fare, to the residence of old
Brown and old Brown's daughter. There he told
the glorious news, a little broken and halting in
his speech. Patty threw her arms about him,
and cried without concealment or restraint. Old
Brown blew his nose with a suspicious frequency,
and shook his adopted son-in-law by the hand
at frequent intervals.

1 Phil he cried at last, ' where's your father ?
By God, sir, he never had any need to run away
from me, because he happened to lose a handful
of paltry money. "What had he got to do but

come and say, " Brown, it's gone ! " He hadn't
trust enough in me to think I'd believe him.
Let's get at him. Where is he ? '

The old boy tugged furiously at the bell-pull.


Send Brenner round to the stable,' he said to
the servant. ' Tell him to get the horses to, and
bring the carriage round at once. Where's your
father, Phil ? '

He's down Poplar way,' said Phil. ' Hornettt,
his old clerk, is living in the same house with
him.'

We'll go down, and rouse him up,' the old
boy said, with a moist eye and trembling hand.
Phil, my lad,' he went on, grasping the young
fellow's hand in his own, ' I'm getting to be an
old 'un. You wouldn't think it to look at me,
because, thank God, I've always known how to
take my trouble lightly, but I've seen a lot of it
in my time, and you can take my word for this
there isn't any trouble in the world that's

hardly so. bitter as for an honest man to have to
take another for a rogue.'

So it came to pass that Bommaney senior,
who after all, perhaps, hardly deserved to be
made a hero of, was plenteously bedewed with
the tears of three most honourable and high-minded
people, and was set up in their minds asa
sort of live statue of undeserved martyrdom.
They who learned the tale afterwards mourned
his weakness, and supposed him to be the victim
of a too sensitive organisation. He lives now
with a genuine halo of sanctity about him, and
seems in the minds of some to have suffered for
the sake of a great principle, quite noble, but not
quite definitely denned.

Odd things happen every clay in the world,
and pass by unrewarded. The worship of
Bommaney senior's sensibilities seems a trifle
dull when all things are considered, though one
has to be glad that an honest son can think of
him with pity mixed with admiration. But

perhaps the oddest thing of all in connection
with this story may be looked for in the shorthand
reporter's notes of the Recorder's speech at the
Old Bailey, when the accusation against Messrs.
Barter and Steinberg came to be heard.

You, Barter,' said the learned Recorder,
appear to have been drawn into this by the
influence of an intelligence stronger and abler
than your own. You appear, in a moment of
weakness, to have been led away by that stronger
intelligence from the paths of rectitude. But
you have displayed so clear a sense of the
enormity of your conduct, and have, by your
complete disclosures of the crime committed by
you and your companion, and, by your evidence
in Court to-day, shown so complete a repentance
for it, that I do not think that it would be politic
or just to lay a severe term of imprisonment upon
you. Nevertheless, the law of the land must be
justified, and I feel a pleasure in believing that
in justifying the law I am affording you an

opportunity for reflection, for the formation of
good resolutions for the future, and for a confirmation
of those better desires which I believe —
in spite of your association with this criminal
enterprise — to animate your mind.'

Now, to my fancy, this has a distinct element
of comedy in it ; but the learned Recorder
resembled some of his unlearned brethren, in
respect to the fact that he could not be expected
to know everything.

Mr. Barter thrives again, but he is even now
awaiting, with the uneasiness sensations, the liberation
of the man who betrayed him into crime.

END OF VOL. I

Printed by R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh

3 0112 052944623

OF THE
UN Diversity
Of ILLINOIS


v.2.

BY

D. Christie MUEEAY

AUTHOR OF 'Aught RACHEL,' 'THE WEAKER VESSEL,' ETC.

IX TWO VOLUMES
VOL. II

lotion

MACMILLAN AND CO.

And NEW YORK



-4?? rights reserved

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/schwartz02murr

CONTEXTS OF VOL. II

PAGE

III. Bulldog and Butterfly 1

IV. Julia and her Romeo : a Chronicle of

Castle Barfield . . . .91

BULLDOG AND BUTTERFLY

VOL. II

Castle Wakefield, Heydon Hey, and Beacon
Hargate form the three points of a triangle.
Barfield is a parish of some pretensions ; Heydon
Hey is a village ; Beacon Hargate is no more
than a hamlet. There is not much that is picturesque
in Beacon Hargate, or its neighbourhood.
The Beacon Hill itself is as little like a
hill as it well can be, and acquires what prominence
it has by virtue of the extreme flatness
of the surrounding country. A tuft of Scotch
firs upon its crest is visible from a distance of
twenty miles in some directions. A clear but
sluggish stream winds among its sedges and

water-lilies round the western side of the Beacon
Hill, and washes the edge of a garden which
belongs to the one survival of the picturesque
old times Beacon Hargate has to show.

The Oak House was built for a mansion in
the days of Queen Elizabeth, but who built it
nobody knows at this time of day, or, excepting
perhaps a hungry-minded antiquary or two,
greatly cares to know. The place had been
partly pulled down, and a good deal altered here
and there. Stables, barns, cow-sheds, and such
other outhouses as are needful to a farm had
been tacked on to it, or built near it ; and all these
appurtenances, under the mellowing hand of time
and weather, had grown congruous, insomuch
that the Oak House if stripped of them would
have looked as bare even to the unaccustomed
eye as a bird plucked of its feathers.

The house faced the stream, and turned its
back upon the Beacon with its clump of fir-trees.
It had chimneys enough for a village —

an extraordinary wealth of chimneys — twisted.
fluted, castellated, stacked together in conclave
or poised singly about the gables. The front of
the house was crossed laterally and diagonally
by great beams of black-painted oak. The windows,
which are full of diamond panes, were
low-browed, deep-sunken, long, and shallow. The
door had a porch, and this porch was covered
with creepers. In summer time climbing roses
and honeysuckle bloomed there. The garden ran
right up to the house, and touched it all round.
The fragrant sweet-william, nestling against the
walls, looked as though it were a natural fringe.
Without the faintest sense of primness, or even
of orderliness, everything had an air of being
precisely where it ought to be, and conveyed
somehow a suggestion of having been there always.
The house looked less as if it had been built than
as if it had grown, and this feeling was heightened
by the vegetable growth about it and upon
it — the clinging ivy, the green houseleek, the

purple and golden moss on the roofs and walls.
In the course of its three hundred years the Oak
House had stood long enough to be altogether
reconciled to nature, and half absorbed by it.

In 1850 — which, though it seem a long while
ago, is well within human memory — and for
many years before, the Oak House was tenanted
by a farmer who bore the name of Fellowes, a
sturdy and dogmatic personage, who was loud at
the table of the market ordinary once a week, and
for the most part silent for the rest of his life at
home. The gray mare was the better horse.
Excepting within doors at the Oak House,
Fellowes ruled the hamlet. There were no
resident gentry ; the clergyman was an absentee ;
the tiny church was used only as a 
; and Fellowes was the wealthiest and most
important personage for a mile or two. He was
a little disposed to be noisy, and to bluster in his
show of authority, and therefore fell all the more
easily captive to his wife, who had a gift for the

tranquil saying of unpleasant things which was
reckoned quite phenomenal in Beacon Hargate.
This formidable woman was ruled in turn by
her daughter Bertha.

Bertha, unless looked at through the eyes of
susceptible young manhood, would by no means
be pronounced formidable. She was country-bred
and quite rustic ; but there are refinements
of rusticity ; and for Beacon Hargate, Bertha was
a lady. She would have been a lady anywhere
according to her chances ; for she was naturally
sensitive to refining influences, and of a nature
which, remembering how strong it was, was
curiously tender.

It was May, in the year 1850 — mid-May —
and the weather was precisely what mid-may
weather ought to be, perfumed and softly fresh,
with opposing hints of gaiety and languor in it.
The birds were singing everywhere — a vocal
storm, and the sheep — who can never express
themselves as being satisfied in any weather —

bleated disconsolately from the meadows. The
clucking of fowls, the quacking of ducks, the
very occasional grunt of some contented porker
in the backward regions of the place, the stamp
of a horse's foot, and the rattle of a chain in a
manger-ring — sounds quite unmusical in themselves
— blended with the birds' singing, and the
thick humming of the bees, into an actual music
in which no note was discordant. The day was
without a cloud, and the soft light was diffused
everywhere on a skyey haze of whitish blue.

In this positively delightful weather, Bertha
stood with folded hands in the porch of the Oak
House (the floor and the far wall of the kitchen
behind her patched with gleams of red and brown
light), like the central figure of a picture framed
in live green. She was pretty enough to be
pleasant to look at ; but her charms were mainly
the growth of tranquil good temper and sound
sense. Broad brow, gray eyes, resolute little
chin, the mouth the best feature of the face, her

expression thoughtful, serene, and self-possessed,
the gray eyes a trifle inclined to dream wide-awake,
hair of no particular colour, but golden in
the sunlight. She stood leaning sideways, with
one shoulder touching the trellis-work of the
porch, and one pretty little foot crossed over the
other, her head poised sideways and nestled into
the ivy. She was looking far away, seeing
nothing, and her folded hands drooped before
her. A bridge, with a hand-rail on either side
of it, crossed the stream and led from a meadow
path to the garden. This meadow path was
hidden — partly by the garden wall, and partly
by the growth of alder and pollard at the side of
the stream — and a man came marching along it,
unobserved. Before he reached the bridge he
brought his footsteps to a sudden halt, and sent
a glance towards the porch. Seeing the girl
there, sunk in day dreams, he slipped back into
the shelter of the withies and took a good long
look at her. Twice or thrice, though his feet did

not quit the ground, he made a faint movement
to go on again, and at length, after two or three
minutes of indecision, he walked briskly to the
foot of the bridge, threw open the little gate at
the end of it, and, suffering it to fall with a
clanking noise behind him, tramped across the
hollow-resounding boards.

At this sudden break upon the rural stillness
for, in spite of the chorus of the birds and
the farmyard noises which mingled with it, the
general effect was somehow of stillness and solitude
— the girl looked round at the new-comer,
drew herself up from her lounging attitude,
placed her hands behind her and there re-folded
them, and stood waiting, with an added flush of
colour on her cheek. The new-comer strode along ina
kind of awkward resoluteness, looking straight at
the girl with a glance which appeared to embarrass
her a little, though she returned it frankly enough.

'Here I am, you see,' said the new-comer,
halting before her.

He was tallish, well-made, and of middle age.
His expression was a trifle dogged, and for a man
who came love-making he looked less prepossessing
than he himself might have wished.

Good afternoon, Mr. Thistlewood/ said the
girl, in a tone which a sensitive man might have
thought purposely defensive.

Is it yes or no to-day, Bertha ? ' asked Mr.
Castlewood.

1 It has always been no,' she answered, looking
down.

Oh he answered, ' I'm perfectly well aware
of that. It always has been no up till now, but
that's no reason why it should be no to-day.
And if it's no to-day that's no reason why it
should be no again this day three months.
Maids change their minds, my dear.'

It is a pity you should waste your time, Mr.
Thistlewood,' said Bertha, still looking down.

'As for wasting my time returned John
Thistlewood, ' that's a thing as few can charge me

with as a general rule. And in this particular
case, you see, I can't help myself. The day I see
you married Shall make up my mind to leave
you alone until such time as you might happen
to be a widow, and if that should come
to pass I should reckon myself free to come
again.'

1 It has always been no,' said Bertha. ' It is
no to-day. It will always be no.'

The words in themselves were sufficiently
decisive, and the voice, though it had something
soft and regretful in it, sounded almost as final
as the words.

1 Let's look at it a bit, my dear,' said John
Thistlewood, grasping in both hands the thick
walking-stick he carried, and pressing it firmly
against his thighs as he leaned a little forward
and looked down upon her. ' Why is it no ?
And if it's no again to-day, why is it always going
to be no ? '

I like you very well, Mr. Thistlewood,' she

answered, looking up at him, ' but I don't like
you in a marrying way, and I never shall.'

1 As for never shall,' said he, ' that remains to
be seen.'

He straightened himself as he spoke, and
releasing the walking-stick with his left hand put
the point of it softly, slowly, and strongly down
upon the gravel, tinting the ground pretty deeply
with the pressure.

Let's look at it a little further,' he added.

1 It is of no use,' the girl answered pleadingly.
It hurts us both, and it can do no good at all.'

1 Let's look at it a bit further,' he said again.
This day month you said there was nobody you'd
seen you liked better than me. Is that true
still ? '

1 It is quite true,' she answered, ' but it makes
no difference.'

That remains to be seen,' said John Thistle-wood
again. ' And as for not liking me in a
marrying way, that's a thing a maid can't be supposed

to know much of.' He waited doggedly as
if to hear her deny this, but she made no answer.
You've known me all your life, Bertha, and you
never knew anything again me.'

Never,' she said, almost eagerly.

I'm well-to-do,' he went on stolidly, but
with all his force, as if he were pushing against
a wall too heavy to be moved by any pressure
he could bring to bear against it, and yet was
resolute to have it down. ' I'm not too old to bea
reasonable match for a maid of your years.
You've had my heart this five years. I waited
two afore I spoke at all. There's a many — not
that I speak it in a bragging way — as would be
willing enough to have me.'

It's a pity you can't take a fancy to one of
them she said, with perfect simplicity and good
faith.

Perhaps it is,' answered Thistlewood, with a
dogged sigh; 'but be that as it may, I can't and
shan't. Where my fancy lies it stays. I didn't

give my heart away to take it back again. You'll
wed me yet, Bertha, and when you do you'll be
surprised to think you didn't do it long before.'

At this point the voice of a third person broke
in upon the colloquy.

That caps all ! ' said the voice. ' There's Mr.
Forbes, the Scotch gardener at my Lord Bar-field's,
tells me of a lad in his parts as prayed
the Lord for a good console of himself. That's a
prayer as you'll never find occasion proffer, John
Thistlewood.'

Maybe not, Mrs. Fellowes,' answered Thistle-wood,
addressing the owner of the voice, who
remained invisible ; ' but I wasn't speaking in a
braggart way.'

No — no,' returned the still invisible intruder.
Wast humble enough about it, doubtless.
You'd bound to tek a man's own word about his
own feelings. Who is to know 'em if he
doesn't ? '

Just so,' said Thistlewood, with great dryness.

He appeared to be little if at all disturbed
by the interruption, but Bertha was
blushing like a peony.

I sat quiet,' said the girl's mother, leisurely
walking round the door with a half-finished gray
worsted stocking depending from the knitting-needles
she carried in both hands, — ' I sat quiet
so as not to be a disturbance. It's you for making
love to a maid, I must allow, John.'

The girl ran into the house and disappeared
from view.

It's me for speaking my mind, at least,
ma'am,' returned John, with unaltered tranquil
doggedness.

Ah ! ' responded the farmer's wife ; ' you're
like a good many more of 'em ; you'd sooner not
have what you want than go the right way to get it.'

Thistlewood digested this in silence, and Mrs.
Fellowes set the knitting-needles flashing.

1 I've always fancied,' he said in a little while,
as I had your goodwill in the matter.'

You've got my goodwill, in a way, to be
sure,' said the old woman. 'You'd mek the gell
a goodish husband if her could find a fancy for
you — but the fancy's everything — don't you see,
John ? '

1 I'm not above taking advice, Mrs. Fellowes,'
said Thistlewood, digging at the gravel with his
walking-stick. ' Will you be so good as to tell
me where I'm wrong ? '

1 There's one particular as you're wrong in,'
returned Mrs. Fellowes, knitting away with a
determinedly uninteresting air, ' and, I misdoubt
me, you can't alter it.'

What's that ? ' asked Thistlewood, looking up
at her suddenly.

You're the wrong man, John.'

That remains to be seen.' he answered, with
the same dogged patience as before.

You can't win a maid's heart by going at her
as solemn as a funeral,' pursued the old woman
1 If you'd ha' begun sprightly with the gell, you

VOL. II C

might ha' had a chance with her. " La ! " says
you, " what a pretty frock you're a-wearing today
; " or " How nice you do do up your hair fora
certainty." '

I don't look on marriage as a thing to be
approached i' that fashion,' said Thistlewood.

Well,' returned the old woman, clicking her
needles with added rapidity, ' I've always said
there's no end to the folly o' men. D'ye hear
that there cuckoo ? Go and catch him wi'
shouting' at him. An' when next you're in want
of toast at tay-time, soak your bread in a pan o'
cold water.'

Thistlewood stood for a time in a rather
dogged-looking silence, sometimes glancing at the
notable woman and glancing away again. Her
eye expressed a triumph which, though purely
dialectic, was hard for a disappointed lover to
endure, even whilst he refused to recognise his
disappointment.

I should regard any such means of getting'

into a maid's good graces as being despicable,' he
said, after a while.

• Very well, my Christian friend the farmer's
wife retorted, with a laugh. ' Them as mek
bread without barm must look to spoil the
batch.'

I was niger of a flattering' turn of mind,' said
Thistlewood.

1 You niger was, John responded Mrs.
Fellowes, with an accent which implied something
beyond assent.

He flushed a little, and began to tap at his
corduroys leg with the stick he carried, at first
with a look of shamefaced discomfiture, and then
with resolution. He finished with a resounding
slap, and looked up with a light in his eyes.

I'm pretty hard to beat, ma'am he said,
■ though I say it as should not. I'm not going
to be conquered here if I can help it. And I
look to laye you and Air. Fellowes on my side,
as far as may be asked in reason. He'll find no

better husband than I should be to her, I am
sure. There's more than a wheedling' tongue
required to mek a married woman happy. I've
pretty well proved as I'm not changeable. There's
a strong arm to tek care of her. There's a
homely house with plenty in it. There's a
goodish lump at the bank, and there's nothing
heart can desire as her might not have by asking
for it.'

Well, John said the farmer's wife, clicking
her needles cheerfully, ( I've not a word to say
again the match. Win the wench and welcome.
My dancing' days is pretty nigh over, but I'll tek
the floor once more with pleasure, if you won't
be too long in mein' ready for me.'

1 There's nothing more to be done at present,
I suppose,' the lover said presently, ' and so
I'll say good-bye for this afternoon, Mrs.
Fellowes.'

With this he turned upon his heel, and,
marching sturdily down the path and across the

little bridge, disappeared behind the withies and
pollards.

The farmer's wife waited a while until he was
out of hearing, and then, without turning her
head, shrilled out ' Bertha ! ' The girl came
silently downstairs and joined her in the doorway.
The mother pursued her knitting in silence,
a faint flicker of a humorous smile touching her
face and eyes now and again. At length she
spoke, looking straight before her.

1 "Why woot'ent marry the man ? '

1 Mr. Thistlewood ? ' asked Bertha, making the
feeblest possible defence against this direct attack.

1 Ay said her mother, ' Mr. Thistlewood to be
sure. Why woot'ent marry him ? '

I like him well enough in a way,' the girl
answered ' But I don't like him that way.'

What way ? '

Why — in a marrying way said Bertha.

Pooh! ' answered the notable woman. 'What's
a maid know how she'd like a man ? '

I should have the greatest respect for him
Bertha answered, wisely avoiding the discussion
of this question, ' if he wouldn't come bothering
me to marry him.'

Ay ! ' said her mother, assenting with a
philosophic air. ' That's a wench's way. When
a man wants nothing he'll give him as much asher
can spare. But look hither, my gell ! You
listen to the words of a old experienced woman.
There's a better love comes after the wedding', if
a gell marries a worthy solid man, than ever her
knows before it. If a gell averts from a man
that's another matter. But if her can abide him
to begin with, and if he's a good man, he'll be
fond of him before her knows it.'

I should never be fond of Mr. Thistlewood,
mother,' the girl answered, flushing hotly. ' It's
of no use to speak about him.'

1 Did the man ever mek love to you at all,'
the mother asked, ' beyond coming' here and
barking', " Woolen marry me ? " '

I wish you wouldn't talk of him, mother,'
Bertha answered in a troubled voice. ' I respect
him very highly, but as for marrying him, it's out
of the question. I can't do it.'

1 Well, well,' returned her mother, ' nobody's
skin' you to do anything o' the sort. I'm trying
to find your mind about him. It's high time
'twas made up one way or other. You've come
to a marriageable age.'

c I'm very well as I am,' said Bertha, rather
hastily. ' I'm not in a hurry to be married.'

You've never been much like other tells,'
said her mother, with a dry humorous twinkle
which looked more masculine than feminine.
1 But I reckon you'll be in about as much of a
hurry as the rest on 'em be when the right man
comes.'

At this moment a whistle of peculiar volume,
mellowness, and flexibility was heard. The
whistler was trilling ' Come lasses and lads ' intones
as delightful as a blackbird's.

Is this him ? ' said the old woman, turning
upon her daughter.

Bertha blushed, and turned away. The
mother laughed. A light footstep sounded on
the echoing boards of the little bridge, and the
human blackbird, marching gaily in time to his
tune, nourished a walking-stick in salutation ashe
approached.

1 Good-afternoon, Mrs. Fellowes,' cried the
new-comer. ' Good-afternoon, Miss Fellows

They both returned his salutation, and he
stood before them smilingly, holding his stick
lightly by the middle, and swinging it hither and
thither, as if keeping time to an inward silent
tune. His feet were planted a little apart, he
carried his head well back, and his figure was
very alert and lithe. He made great use of his
lips in talking, and whatever he said seemed a
little overdone in emphasis. His expression was
eager, amiable, and sensitive, and it changed like
the complexion of water in variable weather. He

was a bit of a dandy in his way, too. His clothes
showed his slim and elastic figure to the best
advantage, and a bright-coloured neckerchief with
loose flying ends helped out a certain air of festal
rural opera which belonged to him.

I passed Thistlewood on my way here he
said, laughing brightly. ' He looked as cheerful
as a frog. Did y' ever notice what a cheerful-looking
thing a frog is ? '

He made a face ludicrously like the creature
he mentioned. The old woman laughed outright,
and Bertha smiled, though somewhat unwillingly.

■ I don't like to hear Mr. Thistlewood made
game of, Mr. Protheroe,' she said a moment
later.

1 Don't you, Miss Fellowes ? ' asked Mr.
Protheroe. ' Then it shan't be done in your
presence again.'

That means it may be done out of my
presence, I suppose,' the girl said coldly.

Xo, nor out of it,' said the young fellow,

bowing with something of a flourish, ' if it displeases
you.'

1 Come in, Lane, my lad,' said the mother,
genially. ' I've got the poultry to look after at
this hour. Bertha '11 tek care of you till I come
back again.'

Lane Protheroe bowed again with the same
gay flourish, and recovering himself from the bow
with an upward swing of the head, followed the
women-folk into the wide kitchen as if he had
been crossing the floor in a minuet. If these
airs of his had been assumed they would have
touched the ridiculous, but they were altogether
natural to him ; and what with them and his
smiling, changeful, sympathetic ways, he was a
prime favourite, and seemed to carry sunshine
into all sorts of company.

When the mother had left the kitchen the
girl seated herself considerably apart from the
visitor, and taking up a book from a dresser
beside her, began to turn over its pages, stopping

now and again to read a line or two, and rather
ostentatiously disregarding her companion. He
sat in silence, regarding her with a grave face fora
minute or thereabouts, and then, rising, crossed
the room and placed himself beside her, bending
over her, with one hand resting on the dresser. She
did not look up in answer to this movement, but
bent her head even a little more than before
above the book.

1 I'm glad to be left alone with you for a
minute, Miss Fellowes,' he began gently, and with
a faint tremor and hesitation in his voice,
1 because I've something very special and particular
to say to you.'

There he paused, and Bertha with a slight
cough, which was a trifle too casual and unembarrassed
to be real, said, 'Indeed, Mr.
Protheroe ? ' and kept her eyes upon the book.

They say a girl always knows,' he went on, 'and
if that's true you know already what I want to say.'

He paused, but if he expected any help from

her in the way either of assent or denial, he was
disappointed. He stooped a little lower and
touched her hand with a gentle timidity, but she
at once withdrew it.

You know I love you, Bertha ? You know
you're dearer to me than all the whole wide
world beside ? '

Still Bertha said nothing, but the hand that
turned the leaves of the book trembled perceptibly.


I've come to ask you if you'll be my wife,
dear ! if you'll let me make you my lifelong care
and joy, my darling ! You don't guess how much
I love you. You don't know how much your
answer means to me.'

The girl rose, and, carrying the book with her,
walked to the kitchen window and looked out
upon the garden, the river, and the fields, without
seeing anything. She was evidently agitated,
and did not find an answer easily. Lane followed
her, and when for a moment she dared to look up

at him she encountered a look so tender, anxious,
and ardent that she lowered her eves in quick
confusion. He seized her hand, and for a brief
instant she let it rest in his.

1 Speak to me,' he murmured, caressingly and
pleadingly. ' Tell me.'

1 don't understand you, Mr. Protheroe,' the
girl said pantingly.

Not understand me, dear ? ' he whispered ;
I am asking you to be my wife.'

I understand that,' she answered, drawing
herself away from him, and speaking with difficulty.
' It is you I don't understand. You —
yourself.'

1 Tell me how, darling,' he said softly.

1 You tell me,' she said, lifting a pale and
agitated face, ' that I can't guess how much my
answer means to you. But you come here
whistling and dancing, as you always come, as
if you hadn't a care upon your mind.'

Don't make that a reproach against me,

dear said he. 'Why it was just the thought of
you made me so happy.'

She looked up at him with an expression of
doubt and pain, and as their eyes met he caught
one of her hands in both his, and held it.

1 Dear Bertha ! ' he said, with a sudden
moisture in his eyes. ' There is nobody so good.
There is nobody so lovely.'

She drew away from him again, though some
sort of electric influence seemed to come out of
him, and draw her strongly to him.

I must wait,' she said. ' I — I don't know
you well enough. I don't understand you. You
are too light. You are too careless. I don't
know how far I can believe you.'

Oh ! ' he cried, ' believe me altogether, dear.
I love you with all my heart and soul ! '

She moved to the middle of the room, and
sheltered herself behind a table which stood
there.

I hardly know whether you have a heart,'

she answered then. ' You fancy you feel all you
say,' she added quickly. 'You feel it for the
minute.'

He stood at the other side of the table with
brows suddenly grown gloomy.

I shall feel it all my life,' he said. ' It's the
one thing I've ever been in earnest about. I
never thought I should feel as I do. If you like
to wait, dear, before answering me, I'll wait just
as long as ever you please.' His gloom was gone,
and he was all eagerness and vivacity again.
1 There's nothing I won't do for your asking. I'll
cure every fault I've got. I'll be everything
you'd like to have me. Try me, darling. Wait
and see. But give me only just a little bit of
hope. Don't send me away quite hungry. Tell
me you care for me just a little — not as I care
for you — I don't expect that. It doesn't stand
to reason yet awhile you should.'

There she shot one swift glance at him, averting
her gaze at once.

I won't say I don't like you,' she answered
with a candour half rustic, half characteristic of
herself. ' But I won't answer yes or no just .
yet'

'Very well, dear,' he answered tenderly.
You shall have time to know if I'm in earnest,
or if I've taken nothing more than a passing
fancy. Shall I ask you again this day six
months ? '

I won't promise you an answer then,' she
said. ' I will answer you when I am certain.'

You could care for me, then,' he urged her,
'if you were only quite sure I loved you, and
always would love you? Why, Bertha, I'd put
my hand in that fire to save you from a finger-ache.
I'd jump into the Whale there if I
thought I could make you happy by doing it.
I'd live my whole life your servant for a smile a
year.'

His eyes flashed or moistened with every
phrase, his gestures were superabundant and intense,

and his voice was genuinely tender and
impassioned.

His ardent eves and voice thrilled the girl,
and yet she doubted him. There was a fear in
her mind which she could not shake away.

People in Beacon Hargate were not rich in
opportunities for the study of the acted drama,
but Bertha had seen a play or two in the great
town hard by, and Lane looked and talked rather
too much like a stage lover to her mind. In the
unreal life behind the footlights lovers talked
with just such a fluency, just such a tender fiery
emphasis. In real life John Thistlewood came
doggedly a-wooing with a shoulder propped against
a doorpost, and had hard work to find a word
for himself. If only that one absent element of
faith could be imported into the business, Lane
Protheroe's fashion of courting was certain to be
infinitely more delightful than John Thistlewood's,
but then the absent element was almost everything.
And for poor Bertha the worst part of it

VOL. II D

seemed that she loved the man she doubted, and
could not love the man in whose affection she
held the profoundest faith. That the rough,
clumsy, and persistent courtier loved her was
one of the indisputable facts of life to her. She
knew it just as surely as she knew that she was
alive. She knew it, and the knowledge hurt her,
for she could fancy nothing less hopeful than
Thistlewood's wooing, and she was without a
spark of mere vanity.

I think it is because you say so much that
I don't feel quite able to believe it all she said.
You feel it when you talk about it, but it seems
to me as if you had to talk before you get to feel it.'

His brows bent down over gloomy eyes again,
and he folded his arms as he looked at her.
Once more poor Bertha thought of the stage
lover she had seen, and a long-drawn sigh
escaped her.

I can't think it's all quite real,' she said,
almost desperately.

You think I say too much ? ' he retorted.
It seems to me as if I said too little. It
seems to me as if there weren't any words to
speak such thoughts and feelings.'

1 Is that because you don't value the words ? '
she asked him. ■ Don't you think that if you
felt what the words do mean that they'd seem
enough for you ? '

I know I'm a good-for-nothing beggar,' he
answered, with a sudden air of weary self-loathing
and disdain. ' I know. I've got a way of
taking everything in deadly earnest for an hour
or two. But,' with a sudden swerve into the
track of self justification, ■ if that makes you
think I'm fickle and weak-willed, you're all
wrong, darling. There are some fellows — I know
plenty — who go through life like a lot of oysters.
They don't feel anything — they don't care about
anything, or anybody. But, bless your heart,
my dear, they never get doubted.'

Bertha took this for a satiric dig at the

absent Thistlewood, and spoke up for him, needlessly,
as it happened.

Still waters run deep, Mr. Protheroe.'

Some of 'em do,' responded Mr. Protheroe,
with profoundest gloom, which lightened suddenly
into a smile as bright as sunshine. ' But some
of 'em don't run at all. And some of 'em are as
shallow as any puddle you'll find along the road,
only they're so muddled you can't see to the
bottom of 'em. You can plumb 'em with your
little finger, though, if you don't mind soiling it.'

Now this innocent generalisation seemed
gratuitously offensive to the absent Thistlewood,
and chilled Bertha greatly.

That may be very true of some people,' she
responded ; ' but it isn't true of all the quiet
people in the world. And I don't think, Mr.
Protheroe, that the people who make the greatest
parade of their feelings are the people who really
have the most to speak of.'

Why, that's true, too, of some people,' returned

Protheroe ; ' but there are all sorts in the
world, dear. Some say a lot and feel a lot.
Some feel a lot and say nothing. Some say
nothing and feel nothing. It may be a fault
with me — I don't know — but when I start to
say a thing I want to say all of it. But surely
a feeling isn't less real because you don't seem
able to express it whatever words you choose

1 Where the feeling's sacred the words are
sacred Bertha objected.

'Tell me what it is you fear about me he
besought her, leaning across the table, and searching
her face with his eyes. ' You don't believe
I should have a wandering mind if you said yes,
and we should once be married ? '

She had laid the book upon the table, and
now betook herself to fingering the leaves again.

1 I've no right to pick faults in you, or give
you lessons, Mr. Protheroe.'

Oh yes, you have he answered. ' All the
right in the world. If you'll take in hand to

show me my faults, I'll take in hand to cure 'em,
so far as a man may.'

I don't think you're fickle,' said the girl
hesitatingly ; ' but I do think you're shallow, Mr.
Protheroe.'

Not a bit of it, dear,' he protested. ' I'm as
deep as Garrick. As for your still waters running
deep, it'd be a better proverb to my mind
to say deep waters run still — at times. Niagara's
deepest, folks say that have seen it. That's not
to say that I even myself with Niagara, you'll
understand, though 'tis in my nature to splash
about a good deal. But all that apart, Bertha
dear, try to make up your mind to take me as I
am, and help me to make a man o' myself.'

At this point back came the farmer's wife
with a clatter of pails in the back kitchen to
indicate her arrival in advance. Lane took his
leave with a reluctant air, going away much more
gravely than he had arrived.

Well,' said Mrs. Fellowes, drawing her knitting

from a capacious pocket and falling to work
upon it at once, ' hast sent Number Two about
his business ? '

Bertha cast an embarrassed look at her and
blushed.

1 Mother she said, ' you seem to find out
everything.'

1 Can find my way to the parish church by
daylight,' the elder woman answered with complacency.
' But you tek care, my wench, whilst
thee best thrown' all the straight sticks aside
as thee doesn't pick up a crooked 'un at the last.
Thee hast a fancy for the lad, too, that's as plain
to be seen as the Beacon.'

Oh ! ' cried Bertha, reddening again. ' I hope
not.'

For me, my gell,' said her mother. c Forme.
And it's outside my thinking' why a maid
shouldn't tek a fancy to him. A lad as is
sticky an' handsome, and as blithe as sunshine !
He's as fond as a calf into the bargain.'

She liked to hear him praised, and, womanlike,
began to depreciate him faintly.

I don't think he's very solid, mother she
said,

The elder woman smiled at the transparent
artifice, and refused to be entrapped by it.

1 No,' she answered. ' Lane's a bit of a
butterfly, I will say. And Jack Thistlewood's a
bulldog. Mek your choice betwixt 'em while
they'd there to be chose from. Which is it to
be ? Butterfly or bulldog ? '

But Bertha answered nothing.

Things may have changed of late years, but in
those days the parish churchyard was the great
meeting-place for lovers who as yet were undeclared
or unaccepted. The youth and the
maid were both there for a purpose altogether
removed from love-making — the meeting had the
advantage of being accidental and certain. It
was a tacit assignation which was almost certain
to be kept, and even the shyest of sweethearts
would dare to walk homewards together a little
of the way even in the lightest of summer
evenings.

When Sunday morning came, and the one
musical bell began to tinkle, Bertha stood before
her open bedroom window, tying her bonnet



ribbons at the glass, in the embarrassing certainty
that both her lovers would be waiting outside the
church to meet her. This certainty was the less
to be endured, because Bertha had the sincerest
desire to close with heavenly rather than with
earthly meditations on a Sunday, but she could
no more help being flustered by the thought of
Lane Protheroe, and being chilled by the anticipation
of Thistlewood's look of bulldog fidelity,
than she could help breathing. The girl's trouble
was that she could not give her heart to the man
who commanded her respect, whilst it was drawn
fluttering with all manner of electric palpitations
towards another whom she thought infinitely less
worthy.

There was nothing in the world against Lane
Protheroe in any serious sense. Nobody spoke
or thought ill of him, or had ground for ill
speaking or thinking. But it was generally conceded
that he was a butterfly kind of young
fellow, and there was a general opinion that he

wanted ballast. Rural kuinaii nature is full of
candour of a sort, and Lane was accustomed to
criticism. He took it with a bright carelessness,
and in respect to the charge of wanting ballast
was apt to answer that ballast was a necessary
thing for boats that carried no cargo. Thistle-wood
was generally admitted to be a well ballasted
personage — a man steady, resolved, serious,
entirely trustworthy.

1 John Thistlewood's word is as good as his
bond,' said one of his admirers one day in his
presence.

'John Thistlewood's word is his bond,' said
John Thistlewood, ' as any man's ought to be.'

People remembered the saying, and quoted it
as being characteristic of the man, — a man cut
roughly out of the very granite of fidelity.

Surely, thought Bertha, a girl ought to
esteem herself happy in being singled out by
such a man. The cold surface covered so steady,
so lasting a glow. And as for Lane — well, Lane's

heats seemed the merest flashes, intense enough
to heat what was near them, but by no means
enduring. There was danger that anything
which was of a nature to keep on burning might
catch fire at him, and when well lit might find
that the creating heat had gone out, or had withdrawn
itself. She knew herself, by instinct,
faithful to the core, and if once she consented to
love the man, she would have to go on doing it.
That looked likely to be terrible, and she fought
against herself continually. And she not only
tried not to love the butterfly, but had tried her
loyal hardest to love the bulldog. The last
chance of success in the second enterprise went
out finally when Thistlewood had once so far
conquered his clumsy reticence of manner as
actually to put his arm about her waist. Then
every fibre of her body cried out against him,
and she escaped him, shivering and thrilling with
a repulsion so strong that it seemed like a crime
to her. How dared she feel the touch of so

estimable a man to be so hateful ? But from
that moment the thing was settled beyond a
doubt. She could respect John Thistlewood, she
could admire the solidity and faithfulness of his
character — but, many him ? That was asking
for more than nature could agree to.

If Lane had only resembled John a little —
ah ! there was a glow of certainty called up by
that fancy which might laye been altogether
delicious had the fancy been well grounded. If
John had only been a little more like Lane ?
She was hardly so sure. Obviously, John was
not the man for this girl to warm her heart at.

The worst of it was that he would never find
or look for another girl, and his long courtship,
though it could never endear him, or even make
him tolerable as a lover, served at least to have
established a sort of claim upon her. The great
faithful heart might break if she should throw
herself away. The depth of his affection, as she
realised it for herself, could only be understood

by one capable of an equal passion. She never
guessed, or came near to guessing, that her conception
of him was the realisation of herself ; but
it is only great hearts which truly know what
great hearts can be, and her profound conception
of Thistlewood's fidelity was her own best certificate
to faithfulness.

The little musical bell went on tinkling as she
walked across the fields. It had various rates of
movement to indicate to distant worshippers the
progress of the time, and she gave a careful ear
to its warnings, so regulating her steps as only
to enter the churchyard at the last minute.

There sure enough were both John and Lane
waiting to pay their morning salutation. Happily,
to her own mind, there was time for no
more than a mere hand-shaking and a good-morning,
and she walked into the church, beautifully
tranquil to look at, though she could hardly
believe that all the congregation could not guess
with what a startled feeling her heart had begun

BULLDOG AND BUTTERFLY 4to

beat. By and by the influences of the place
and the service began to soothe her, though she
only succeeded in excluding her lovers by a conscious
process of forgetfulness which was not sofar
removed from memory as it might have been.
The Thistlewood pew was a little to the front
on her right, and the Protheroe pew a little to
her front on the left, but she kept her eyes so
studiously downcast that she got no glimpse of
either, until a strange and altogether remarkable
feeling of something missing surprised her into
looking up. Her eyes went first to the Protheroe
pew, and Lane was not there. Then in spite of
herself she listened for Thistlewood's voice in the
Responses, and not detecting it, was impelled to
look for him. He also was absent, and she
began to quake a little. "Was it possible they
had stayed outside to quarrel ? This fear would
have been sufficiently serious at any time, but on
a Sunday, during church hours, it magnified itself,
which fact is in itself enough to prove that

though the idea perturbed her she foresaw no
very terrible consequences. It would be hateful
to be quarrelled over, but both the combatants
if combatants they were to be — would respect
her too much to proceed to extremities, and
thereby make the quarrel public, and her a target
for all tongues.

John and Lane had met in the churchyard
pretty early, and whilst there were friends to
greet, and to pass the time of day with, things
went smoothly enough. But as the churchgoers
filed by ones and twos into the building, each
began to be aware of a solitude which was
peopled only by the disagreeable presence of the
other. John, ostentatiously disregardful of his
adversary, planted himself at the gate, so as to be
before him in his greeting. Lane, rather unusually
erect and martial in his walk, marched
past him into the village roadway, and there
loitered for the same intent. This tie wood, recognising
the meaning of this manoeuvre, strolled

into the roadway, and doggedly planted himself
a yard or two beyond the spot where his rival
had halted. Lane, with an air to the full as
ostentatiously and offensively disregardful as the
other's, marched past Thistlewood with half a
dozen soldierly-looking strides, and bringing himself
to an abrupt halt made a disdainful back at
him. Again Thistlewood advanced, but this time
he drew himself up a trifle behind his rival, and
laid a finger on his shoulder.

Well ? ' said Protheroe, without turning his
head.

I shall want a word with thee by and by.
my lad Thistlewood said quietly.

'Have it now,' replied Lane, settling his
shoulders jauntily.

There's time in plenty afore us,' Thistlewood
answered, regarding him with supreme disfavour.

The younger man looked straight before him
with an exasperating aspect of indifference.

When you like,' he said.

VOL, II e

Very well,' replied Thistlewood. ' In five
minutes' time from now

Church time said Lane smilingly, surveying
the landscape.

1 Best that keen set on the sermon ? ' John
inquired.

Don't know that I am replied the enemy,
rising a little on his toes, and then settling his
shoulders anew.

Five minutes' time from now.'

The jaunty airs and scornful disregard began
to warm Thistlewood's blood a little.

Canst look a man i' the face when thee
talk'st to him ? ' he asked.

Yes, bless your heart and soul alive ! ' cried
Lane, swaggering round and beaming on him.

For half a minute they looked at each other,
the one angry, resolute, and lowering, with head
bent a little forward, his glance directed upward
past his down-drawn brows, the other smiling
with seeming sweetness and gaiety.

Thistlewoocl seemed to restrain himself with
something of an effort.

1 Well talk together by and by he said, and
turning, deliberately walked back into the churchyard.


For a few seconds Lane stood glorying, but on
a sudden it occurred to him that his rival was
behaving in a more dignified manner than himself,
and this was a reflection not to be endured
without instant action. So he marched back into
the churchyard also, and left John in the foreground.
When Bertha appeared her elder lover
paid his respects first, and Lane came up afterwards,
looking, as she remembered later on, prodigiously
gloomy and resolved.

The bell had been silent for a minute, and the
curate's voice had begun to drone within the
building. The rivals were alone, and nobody was
within sight or earshot.

1 Shall we walk a pace or two, Mr. Protheroe ? '
asked John.

OBMRf

r .w^TU M II i IMHI'

Mr. Protheroe, without speaking, sauntered
out at the gate, vaulted a stile opposite, and
paused in a field pathway. Thistlewood followed,
throwing first one leg and then the other over the
rail with a sort of laboured deliberation.

Now said Lane.

We'll walk on a little bit,' answered Thistle-wood,
and there was silence for a minute or two
as they strode along the grass. Then when they
had reached the shelter of a little copse which
hid them from the whole landscape on the church
side, John said, ' Now,' in turn, and the two
halted. Each was paler than common by this
time, and Lane's eyes sparkled, whilst the other's
burned steady with resentment.

'Twixt man and man as is willing to come
to understand one another, Mr. Protheroe,' said
Thistlewood, ' a very few words suffices. I'll
have thee, nor no man else, poaching on my
manor.'

1 Well,' Lane answered, ' if ever I should

arrive at owning a manor, I'd say the same. But
I'd be sure of my title-deeds afore I took to warning
other men off the ground.'

1 Let's talk plain English said John, apparently
quite untouched by this rejoinder.

With all my heart,' said his rival, ' the
plainer the better.'

I find you very much i' my way,' Thistle-wood
began ponderously.

I don't find you a little bit in mine,' Lane
answered.

You talk to sting,' said Thistlewood, with
dull dignity. ' I want to talk so as to be understood.
I find you very much i' my way, as I
was saying, and I won't have you their.'

No ? '

No ! '

1 And how do you mean to set about getting
rid of me ? '

I've set about harder jobs than that i' my
time, lad.'

Like enough. But how do you mean to set
about this one ? '

All in good time,' said Thistlewood. ' Sha'st
find out speedily.'

Show me now said Lane.

A breach of the peace seemed imminent, but,

Afore thee and me comes to that,' the elder
answered, ' I want thee to have fair warning'. It's
unbecoming' in a man to brawl over the maid he

wants to marry I'm a man as never changed

nor halted nor turned aside from anything he set
his mind upon. I've been courting' Miss Fellowes
now this three year. It stands to reason as a
frivolity young chap like you can mek no count
of how a man feels, or of what a man 'ud do ina
like case.'

That stands to reason, does it ? '

It stands to reason,' answered Thistlewood.

I suppose it stands to reason likewise that I
am to stand to one side, and leave the road clear
after this ? '

1 It'd be the wisest tiling you ever did.'

1 "Well, now, Thistlewood, you'll please understand
that, for all so frivolous as I may be, I'm
hardly that easy to be swayed. As for who
has a right on the ground, it's a mere piece
of impudence to talk about it. That's neither
for me nor you to choose. If ever I get straight
'• Xo " I'll go, but I'll have it before I go, for
that's a man's bounden duty to himself.'

Understand thyself as been' warned away,'
said Thistlewood.

Understand thy warning as being laughed
at,' answered Lane. ' You talk plain English ?
So will I. You've got the wrong pig by the ear.
You're no better than a dog in the manger.
You've always been spoken of up till now as a
man to play fair, but now it strikes me you play
very far from fair, and cut a poor figure. As for
threats — a man who won't take a hiding when
it's offered to him — what's he good for, I should
like to know ? '

Here, as elsewhere, Mr. Protheroe was true
to nature, and spoke with striking emphasis. He
was quite red-hot with scorn at the imaginary
fellow who would not take the proffered hiding,
though a minute earlier, when he had told
Thistlewood that he had the wrong pig by the
ear, his manner had been marked by a cold and
lofty superiority.

Best warned! ' said Thistlewood, ' that's enough.'

Not half enough, nor yet a quarter,' cried
Lane, with a bellicose air, not unmixed with
swagger. ' I've taught my hands to take care of
my head, sir, and they'll be ready to do it whenever
the time occurs. But it always seemed a
bit ridiculous to me to talk about fighting beforehand.
When the fight's over there is something
to talk about.'

You seem to be in a hurry for that there
hiding,' said Thistlewood.

1 Hurry's no word for it,' the younger man
responded, with cheerful alacrity.

Very well said the elder, taking off his hat
and bestowing it carefully upon the grass, ' sha'st
have it.'

Lane, for his part, threw down his hat,
nourished his coat off, dropped it behind him,
rolled up his sleeves, and waited whilst
Thistlewood made his preparations more slowly.
Protheroe set that mellow whistle of his to work
on ' The British Grenadiers,' and his enemy
smiled grimly to think how soon he would
silence the music.

Half a minute later they were standing foot
to foot and eye to eye, the music already silenced.
It would have been difficult from the mere aspect
of the men to say on which side the advantage
lay. In height and reach they were nearly
equal, and, if Thistlewood's weight and muscle
were in his favour, Protheroe was as active as a
cat.

And here might have been recorded a bit of
history to warm the blood of such as love and

remember the old-fashioned manhood of England.
We are grown too refined and civilised nowadays
for the old rude arbitrament, and so fair play has
ceased to be the Englishman's motto in fighting,
and the English rustic shoots and stabs like the
rustic of other lands. All fighting is foolish,
more or less, but we had the manliest, friendliest,
most honourable, and least harmful way of doing
it amongst all the sons of men, and so our
Legislature killed out the * noble art ' from
amongst us, and brought us to the general ugly
level.

It was in the reign of the Tiptoe Slasher —
which, as people learned in the history of
manners will remember, was a longish time ago
when these two Britons stood up to arrange
their differences after the fashion then in vogue.
There was nobody to see fair play, and so they
saw it for themselves, as all fighting Englishmen
did when there was a code of honour to go by.
It was not a mere affair of hammer and tongs,

but very fair scientific fighting, the science vivified
by enjoyment, and full of energy, but never
forgotten for a second. The pleasure was keen
on both sides, for from the beginning of their
knowledge of each other these two had been in
antagonism, and at the last it was a real treat
to let all go and have at it.

1 1 was always a bit frivolous, as you said
just now, Mr. Thistlewood,' Lane remarked in
the first enforced pause of the combat, ' but I'd
like you to bear me witness that I stick to what
I'm at while I'm at it.'

This address was delivered pantingly, whilst
the speaker lay flat upon his back on the grass,
with his arms thrown out crosswise. Thistle-wood
disdained response, and sat with one great
shoulder propped against a dwarf oak, breathing
fast and hard. When this sign of distress had
a little abated, he arose, and said ' Time ' as if he
had been a mere cornelian in the affair, and
rather bored by it than otherwise. Lane rolled

over on to his face, rose to his hands and knees,
smiled at his adversary for a little while, as if to
give him an appetite for the business in hand,
and then got to his feet and made ready.

Now for a man to hold his own at this
particular form of fighting against an equal
adversary for a bare five minutes argues five
grand things for him, and these are chastity,
temperance, hardihood, strength, and courage. It
speaks well for these admirable qualities in both
of them that Messrs. Thistlewood and Protheroe
made a good hour of it. The advantages and
disadvantages had been so equally distributed
that by this time they were pretty nearly harmless
to each other, but each was sustained by the
hope of victory, and each would have died, and,
for the matter of that, would have gone on
dying, rather than yield the precious palm to the
other.

Now the clergyman who ministered to the
spiritual wants of Beacon Hargate was never dis-bulldog

AND BUTTERFLY 61

posed to gorge his flock with too much doctrine
at a time, and on this Sabbath had an invitation
to luncheon at a great house some four or five
miles away, and so treated his parishioners — to
the scandal of some and the joy of others — to the
shortest discourse they had ever heard from the
pulpit. By this mischance it happened that the
combatants were discovered by a silent male
advance-guard of the home-returning congregation,
who ran back — his footsteps soundless on
the grass — to spread the splendid news. Sunday
or week-day there was no more welcome
break in the monotony of life in Beacon Hargate
than that afforded by a fight. The time being
church-time, and the combatants men of respectable
position, lent piquancy to the event, of
course, as who shall say me nay ? The churchgoers,
two or three farmers, Mr. Drake, the manager
of Lord Barfield's estates at Heydon Hey, and a
handful of labourers came up, at first stealthily,
and then more boldly, and looked on at the finish.

It was plain that the fight had been severe,
but it was equally plain that the best of it was
over ; and when Farmer Fellowes interposed as
amicus curies, nobody but the two most concerned
had any especial resentment against him.

Even for them Farmer Fellowes had a crumb
of comfort.

Finish it another time, lads he said.
Where's the good o' going' on wi' it i' this
manner ? Why a child might homer the pair
on you. Get fresh an' have another turn tomorrow,
if the 'casion's worth it.'

So the fight was left undecided after all, and
the adversaries were led off to the neighbouring
brook, where they made themselves as respectable
to look at as they could before they took their
several ways. They were unsightly for a week
or two, and were close watched by their womenfolk
lest they should renew the strife.

Beacon Hargate knew perfectly well the
reason of the battle, and Bertha was mightily dis-bulldog

AND BUTTERFLY 63

painful and indignant over both her lovers, who,
to her fancy, had disgraced themselves and her.
Six days after the fight John Thistlewood's business
for once in a way, as well as his inclination,
took him to Fellowes's farm, and there Bertha
(who for very shame had not quitted the house
since Sunday) first saw the result of the fray.
The stalwart farmer's face was discoloured, and,
in places, still swollen. She saw the wicked
handiwork of Lane Protheroe, and vowed within
herself that she would see that dreadful young
man no more. She could have cried for pity of
poor Mr. Thistlewood, who had been thus shamefully
treated for the crime of being faithful in love.
If John had known it, he had at this instant
the best chance of being taken as Bertha's husband
he had ever had, or was like to find. But
he was shamefaced about the matter, as heroes
not uncommonly are with regard to their achievements,
and was disposed to think himself at an
even unusual disadvantage.

Bertha stifled in her heart whatever tender
sentiments Protheroe had inspired, and was prepared
to pass him whenever she might meet
him with such a manner as should indicate her
new opinion of him beyond chance of mistake.
Thistlewood had appeared on the Saturday, and
on the Monday the fates threw her younger lover
in her way. She discerned him from a distance,
herself unseen. His figure dipped down into the
hollow, and she could not see him again until
they met at some turning or other of the tortuous
lane. If pride had not forbidden it she
could have turned to fly homewards, but she
hardened her heart and went on until his footsteps
sounded clearly on the stony road.

Then he turned the corner, and she lifted one
glance of superb disdain which melted suddenly
under a terror-stricken pity. For this hero was
worse battered than Number One had been, and
one of those eyes, which had used to be so expressive
and eloquent, was decorated by a shade.

Oh, Lane ! ' cried the girl, clasping her hands,
and turning white with pity.

1 Did I frighten you, my dear ? ' said Lane.
It's nothing. It'll all be right in a day or
two.'

I hope so,' she answered, recovering herself,
and seizing on principle before it made away forever.
' I wish you to know that I think you have
behaved very disgracefully, and I hope you will
never speak to me again.'

Why,' said Lane, ' that's hard measure,
Bertha ; and as for behaving disgracefully — if a
man threatens to punch your head you must give
him the chance to punch it. That's man's law,
anyhow, whether it's woman's or not.'

I am sure Mr. Thistlewood is no quarreller
said Bertha, with great dignity and severity of
demeanour. ' It takes no great penetration to
guess who began it.'

There's one thing I will say for him,' returned
Lane ; ' he's a truth-telling fellow, to the best of

VOL. II • F

my belief. Ask him who began it. Hell tell
you. Not that I should take any particular
blame or shame for having begun it myself, but
since that's how you look at it, dear — why, I
should like you to be satisfied.'

'Do you think, Mr. Protheroe,' demanded
Bertha, ' that it's the way to win a girl's esteem
to brawl about her in public on a Sunday ? '

I That's what Thistlewood said,' Lane answered,
with cunning simplicity. ' " It's unbecoming,"
said he, " in a man to brawl over the maid he
wants to marry." '

I I was certain he would say so, and think so,'
returned Bertha, with a sinking of the heart.
She wanted grounds for pardoning Lane.

1 Well,' said Lane, with a retrospective air,
we talked for a while, and he was good enough
to promise me a hiding if I didn't keep out of his
way — meaning, of course, at your father's house.
I didn't seem to take it quite so meekly as he
thought I ought to, and by and by says he, " You

seem to be in a hurry for that hiding." So I
just made answer that hurry was no word for it,
and then, the pair of us being keen set, we got toit.
The day was an accident, and I daresay a
piece of forgetfulness on both our sides. But
you see, my dear, a man's just as bound to guard
his self-respect on a Sunday as on a week-day.'

1 1 have been very deeply wounded,' said
Bertha. ' I wished to respect you both, and now
I can respect neither of you. Good-morning,
Mr. Protheroe.'

Mr. Protheroe stood discomfited, and looked
mournfully after her as she walked away. When
she had disappeared round the bend of the road
he sat down upon the bank and plucked grasses
with mechanical fingers, turning the thing up
and down in his mind for an hour or thereabouts.
Suddenly he jumped to his feet and resumed his
walk, smiling with head erect, and that mellow
whistle of his rose on the air with jollity in every
note of it, for it had broken upon his mind like

sunshine to remember her first exclamation on
seeing him. He was a young man who was in
the habit of making sure of things, and he had
never in his life been surer of anything than he
felt about this. The name, the tone, the look,
meant more than a common interest in him.
She had called him ' Lane ' for the first time in
his life. She had clasped her hands, and turned
pale at the sight of him. All this meant victory
for his dearest hopes, and so he leapt to his feet,
and marched off whistling like the throstle.

Bertha pursued her way along the tortuous
bridle-path with thoughts which resembled the
way she travelled. Like the road, her fancy
seemed to turn back upon itself pretty often,
and yet in the main it held in the same direction.
Of course, fighting was a brutal business to a
girl's way of thinking, but then, when she came
really to think of it, men were strange creatures
altogether, half terribly glorious and half contemptible.
Lane had endured all these injuries
simply and merely because he loved her ! She
could have no conception of the possibilities of
masculine joy in a fight for its own sake, or of
the masculine sense of honour which compelled
the meeting of a challenge half-way. Of course

it was mightily unpleasant to be talked about,
as the heroine of such a business. The village
tongues had been busy, and would never altogether
stop wagging for the remainder of her
lifetime.

The influence of long years of respect for
Thistlewood seemed to turn her mental steps
backward now and then. That so quiet and
retired a man, and so little given to proclaiming
himself, should have made the most sacred wishes
of his heart a matter of common gossip was
understandable only on one hypothesis. His
love and his despair carried him out of himself.
That, of course, was a daring thing for any girl
to think, but then Bertha was bound to find
reasons.

Mainly, her mind was occupied in the reconstruction
of her previous belief about Lane
Protheroe. He also, it would seem, had manly
qualities in him — could stand up to be beaten in
the cause of the woman he loved. The blows

hurt her so, in the mere fancy of them, that she
more than once put up her hands to her face to
guard it. By the time she had accomplished
her errand, and was on the way back to her
father's farmhouse, she was all tenderness and
forgiveness and admiration for the newly revealed
Lane, but then, as the fates would have
it, just as she began to think of her cruelty to
him, and of the terribly low spirits into which
she must have thrown him, the familiar jocund
whistle broke upon her ears, and when she stood
still in a dreary amaze at this, she could hear
the steps of the lover, who ought to have been
altogether love-lorn, marching along in something
very like a dance in time to his own music.
What was one to think of such a man ? She
was back in a moment to her old opinion of him.
No rooted feeling in him — no solidity — nothing
to be sure of!

She made haste home, and there shut herself
in her own room and cried. Her mother walked

upstairs, and finding the girl thus mournfully
engaged, sat down tranquilly beside her and produced
her knitting. The click of the needles
had an effect of commonplace which helped to
restore Bertha to her self-possession, and in a
little time her tears ceased, and moving to the
window she stood there looking out upon the
landscape. The monotonous click of the needles
ceased, and she knew that her mother had laid
down her work in her lap and was regarding her.
She turned, with a ghost of a smile.

'You're thinking', no doubt, as you're full o'
trouble, my wench began the mother, ' and it's
no manner o' use in talking' to young folks to try
an' mek' out as a thing as pains don't hurt. But
if you can only bring 'em t' understand as it won't
hurt much by and by, you've done summit for
'em, may be. What's the trouble, wench ? Come
an' tell thy mother.'

1 It's all over now, mother,' said Bertha.

Not it,' returned Mrs. Fellowes, c nor won't

be yet a while. Doesn't one as cries for nothing,
like most tells. I was never o' that kind myself.'

Bertha would not, perhaps could not, make a
confidante even of her mother in this matter,
but Mrs. Fellowes had a remarkable faculty for
striking human averages, and she got near the
truth in her guesses.

1 There's one thing fixed and sure, my dear,'
she said, ' and that is as follows : aether you
must find a mind to wed one of 'em, or you
must pluck up a spirit and tell 'em you'll wed
neither.'

1 I have told Mr. Thistlewood that I can never
marry him,' said Bertha.

And what about Lane ? ' her mother asked
her.

I can never marry him either,' the girl
answered steadily. She had her voice under
perfect control, but her averted face and the very
lines of her figure enlightened the shrewd old
mother.

Hast told him so ? ' she asked

have told him Bertha answered, ' never to
speak to me again.'

1 Hoity, toity, deary me ! ' cried the old woman.
And what says he to that ? '

He didn't greatly seem to care said Bertha,
with a beautifully assumed air of indifference.

1 Maybe he didn't set such store by what you
told him as to tek it in earnest ? '

Oh said the girl, languidly and indifferently,
he knew I meant it.'

And didn't seem to care ? My dear, you're
talking' of Lane Protheroe ! '

He cared for a minute, perhaps Bertha said,
her assumed indifference and languor tinctured
with bitterness by this time. 'He cared for a
minute, perhaps ; just as he does about everything.
I heard him whistling an hour afterwards.'


The disguise was excellent, and might have
deceived a woman who had known her less

intimately and watched her less closely, but it
was transparent to the mother.

That's the trouble, is it ? ' said Mrs. Fellowes,
gravely betaking herself once more to her knitting.
Bertha had been crying already, and had
hard work to restrain herself. ' Look here, my
darlings the mother said, with unwonted tenderness
of tone and manner, ' if you can't read your
own mind, you must let a old experienced woman
read it for you. The lad's as the Lord made
him. What we see in any o' the men to mek a
fuss about, the Lord in His mercy only knows ;
but, to my mind, Lane's the pick o' ten thousand.
He's alive, and that's more than can be said of
many on 'em. He's a clever lad, he's well to
look at, and he's well-to-do.'

'Mother,' cried the girl, almost passionately,
her own pain wrung her so, 'he has no heart.
He cares for a thing one minute, and doesn't care
for it the next. He pretends — no, he doesn't
pretend — but he thinks he cares, and while he

thinks it I suppose he does care. But out of
sight is out of mind with him.'

Makes most o' thine own troubles, like the
rest on us said Mrs. Fellowes philosophically.
But, in a moment, philosophy made way for
motherly kindness, and, rising from her seat, she
bestowed her knitting in a roomy pocket and put
her arms about her daughter's waist. ' Art fond
of the lad all the same,' she said. ' Ah, my dear,
there's nothing' likely to be sorer than the nature
as picks flies in the things it's fond on. There's
a deal o' laughing' at them as thinks all their geese
is swans, but they're better off in the long run
than them as tees all their swans to be geese.'

Bertha said nothing, but she trembled a little
under the caress, and her mother, observing this,
released her, went back to her chair, and once
more drew forth her knitting.

I reckon,' she said, after a pause, ' as John
Thistlewood's had the spoiling of thee. There's
got to think so much o' them bulldog ways of

his'n, that nothing' less 11 be of use to any man as
comes a-courting.'

Don't talk about it any more, mother,' said
Bertha, with an air of weary want of interest.
I have said good-bye to both of them.'

And there the interview ended.

It became evident that Bertha was likely to
have a troublesome time before her. First of all
came John Thistlewood, dogged and resolute as
ever, propping himself against the chimney-piece,
flogging his gartered legs with the switch he
carried, and demanding Ay or No before his
time. Bertha determined to treat him with some
spirit.

1 You don't need me to tell you that I respect
you very highly, Mr. Thistlewood. But you
oughtn't to need me to answer your question
any more. I shall be obliged if you will be so
good as not to ask it again.'

I shall ask it,' said the dogged John, ' till
it comes to be answered one way or another.'

1 It has been answered almost often enough
to my way of thinking said Bertha.

She had never been tart with Thistlewood
until that moment, but he manifested no surprise
or emotion of any kind.

1 It never has been answered, an' never will
be till I see thee married, whether to me or
another. When that day come to pass you've
heard the last of my question."

Thus the dogged John ; and he being
disposed of for a while, came Lane. To him the
persecuted maid was a little less severe than she
had been, but she was inexorable.

If you like to come here as a friend, Mr.
Protheroe, in a few months' time, I daresay we
shall all be very glad to see you.'

1 Well said Lane, with fine irrelevance, ' as
an enemy this is a house I shall never make a
call at. But look at the matter for a minute,
my darling '

■ You must not talk to me like that.

Mr. Protheroe,' Bertha said, with great coldness.


Like what, my dear ? ' asked the ingenious
Lane.

1 Like that, Mr. Protheroe,' replied Bertha.

I think it so often, that I'm afraid I'm bound
to say it sometimes ; but, if it offends, I hope
you'll forgive me. You know you are my darling,
don't you ? You know there isn't a queen in
the world I'd even with you if every hair of her
head was hung with Koh-i-noors. " Out of the
fulness of the mouth the heart speaketh," the
Wise Man says. So, if I do let slip " my dear "
or " my darling " now and then, you'll know it's
accident, and you won't take offence at it — will
you V

This was agile but unsatisfactory.

1 Please understand me, Mr. Protheroe,' said
Bertha, with rural dignity ; ' you must not come
here again until you can come merely as a
friend

Bertha ! You can't mean it ! What have
I done ? What has changed you ? '

1 Mr Protheroe ! ' — the rural dignity made an
insulted goddess of her to Lane's fancy —
what right have you to say that I have
changed ? '

1 Why, Bertha,' he said, meekly and stricken,
Wasn't I to come in six months' time and get
an answer ? '

1 Will you oblige me by coming for your
answer in six months' time,' answered Bertha.
Good-afternoon, Mr. Protheroe.'

Bertha thought herself more cruel to herself
than to him. She knew how infinitely more
cruel she was to Thistlewood, but that was not a
thing to be avoided. She and he alike must
suffer — she in giving pain and he in bearing it.
Bertha's heart ached over Lane, and the bitterness
of it was to know that in a week or two the
butterfly nature would have ceased to care. He
was hotly in love to-day, no doubt, but he would
VOL. II G

be out of love tomorrow, maybe, and in a month
or two hotly in love again elsewhere.

On the Sunday following these interviews
dogged John was at church, and the butterfly
Protheroe also. Thistlewood looked as he always
looked, rudely healthy, and a masterpiece
of masterfulness and sullen perseverance and
resolve. Lane was pallid and miserable, and
Bertha remarking him was compelled to fall back
on the bitter consolation of her former thoughts.
He would take it heavily for a day or two, and
would then forget all about it. He cast a glance
or two in Bertha's direction, and his eyes were
full of melancholy appeal. But for her certainty
he would have moved her, for she was predisposed
to be moved, and she had hardly expected to
have had so much effect upon him. He walked
dejectedly out of church at the close of the
service, and Thistlewood half by accident
shouldered him. He took it meekly, and made

Two or three days later came a piece of news
of the sort Bertha had expected. Mr. Protheroe
was heard of as having made one of a picnic
party in the neighbourhood of Heydon Hey, and
of this party he was said to have been the life
and soul. He was reported to have paid marked
attentions to Miss Badger, daughter of a wealthy
cheesemonger in Castle Barfield High Street.
The young lady was rumoured to be possessed of
great personal attractions, and a pretty penny,
present and prospective.

Foreseen as it was, the news stung a little
when it came. Even the most butterfly-like of
lovers mishit have waited a little longer !

And yet next Sunday, when Bertha went to
church, quite resolved not to waste so much as a
glance upon him, he looked paler and more dejected
than he had done a week ago. She looked in
spite of herself — she must needs look at him, —
and it was evident that as yet the cheesemonger's
daughter had found no way to cheer him. Thistle-wood

never altered. Those strong self-contained
natures have a power upon themselves as they
have on other people. He could last for years
in solid and complete devotion — he could
apparently wait for ever — and could yet hide
from the eyes of the outer world the steady fires
which burned within him. That butterfly nature
of poor Lane's forced Thistlewood's virtues into
prominence by contrast, and the girl had them
almost constantly in her thoughts. There was
nothing — she told herself remorsefully — that
this typical piece of solidity and devotion would
not do for her. Her faith in his attachment
transcended bounds, and she felt it to be a
thousand pities that she could not love him.

It does not happen in every life-history that
this sort of profound feeling finds an opportunity
of proof, but in the story of the lives of John
Thistlewood and Lane Protheroe this thing came
to pass in such wise that he who ran might read
the natures of the men, and know them once for all.

Bulldog John had gone on doggedly courting,
and butterfly Lane had taken to seeing too much
convivial company in Heydon Hey and Castle
Barfield, and there was a fear in Bertha's mind
that if her influence had not been permanent, it
had at least started the young man on a track
likely to prove disastrous. These emotional
people, quick to feel and quick to forget, are
hardly to be dealt with without danger.

Lane's dissipations must have been graver
than even rumour gave them discredit for being.
His midnight junketings had made a ghost of
him, and to see him at any moment when he
thought himself unobserved was to wonder how
long such a mournful and broken young gentleman
could possibly rouse himself to fill the part of
King even in a rustic Bohemia.

Autumn was on the land. The corn-shocks
were standing in the stubbled fields, and the
night air was full of gossamer, which twined
itself about the faces of all wayfarers. Rural

work had gone on merrily all day, and when the
sun set silence fell, and darkness like a warm
shroud. Lights flickered a while in the village
and the farmhouse, and then went out one by
one. The moon stole over the Beacon Hill, and
looked mildly across the valley.

There was not a breath of air stirring, and
not a sound upon the night except for the placid
and continual gurgle of the stream which had no
voice at all by day. Yes. One other sound
there was, a sound as of some one moving uneasily
in a creaking chair. Creak, creak, creak.
It grew momently. Crackle, crackle, crackle.
Still it grew. A tongue like the tongue of a
snake — so light and fine and swift was it —
flashed out of a crevice, and flew back again,
flashed out again, and again withdrew. Then
the snake's body flashed out after it, and
melted on the moonlit air. Another, and another,
and another. Then a low roaring noise, and
all the windows of the basement shone out

ruby-coloured, and the moon looked bleared by
contrast.

A distant voice from the village called out
Fire ! ' There was a crash of opening windows,
a tumult of clapping doors, a storm of barking
dogs, excited voices, hurrying feet.

Old and young, male and female, robed anyhow,
ran hard towards the farmhouse, and poured
in a thunderous stream across the echoing wooden
bridge which spanned the river. The farmhouse
was a tower of flame, fantastic turrets springing
here and there. The dry timbers, centuries old,
made the best of food for fire, and the place
flamed like a tar-barrel. The screams of doomed
horses came with hideous uproar from the
stables in the rear.

The farmer and his wife, the men servants
and the maid servants, were in the garden, all
pale with fear and helpless ; but the mother tore
the night with calling on her daughter's name.

Bulldog John and his rival came last of alb

though they ran like hounds, and they crossed
the bridge and dashed through the crowd
together.

Oh, John cried the agonised mother, clutching
at him as though he were an ark of safety.
You'll save her — won't you ? God help her !
You'll save her — won't you, John ? '

One figure, black as night against the fierce
glow of the flame, dashed across the space
between the crowd and the farmhouse. It was
hardly seen, and scarce believed in by those who
thought they saw.

John,' cried the wretched mother, ' you'll
save her ! You as loved her so ! You'll save
her ! '

There is no manhood in the world that needs
to be ashamed to hang back from an enterprise
so hopeless and so terrible. The woman shrieked
and prayed — the man stood motionless with
white face and staring eyes.

Then came one wild cry from half a dozen

throats at once, and next leapt a roar that
struck the noise of the fire out of being for an
instant. For the figure, black against the fiery
glow, was back again, by some such stupendous
chance, or heaven - wrought miracle, as only
desperate valour ever wins. A figure huddled ina
blanket lay in his arms, and as he came racing
towards the crowd they fell together. They were
lifted and borne out of the circle of fierce heat
and flying sparks.

The house was left to burn, and every thought
was centred on the rescuer and the rescued. The
fresh air roused Bertha from her swoon, and at
the first opening of her eyes and the first words
she spoke the mother went as mad with joy as
she had been with terror.

1 Alive ! — alive ! Safe ! — safe ! And oh, my God !
my Christian friends, it was the Butterfly as did it!'

But it was a full month later when Lane
Protheroe asked his first question,

Where's Bertha ? '

Hush ! my dear, dear charm,' said Mrs.
Fellowes, her eyes brimful of tears. ' Lie quiet,
there's a dear.'

Where's Bertha ? '

Safe and well, love ; safe and well.'

I'm thirsty,' said the Butterfly.

He was supplied with a cooling drink, and
fell to sleep smiling, with unchanged posture. Tn
half a dozen hours he woke again.

Where's Bertha ? '

Here, dearest.'

And we leave them hand in hand, yearning
on each other through their blissful tears.

A CHRONICLE OF CASTLE Garfield)

A CHRONICLE OF CASTLE Garfield

I

In the year eighteen hundred and twenty, and
for many years before and after, Abel Reddy
farmed his own land at Perry Hall End, on the
western boundaries of Castle Barfield. He lived
at Perry Hall, a ripe-coloured old tenement of
Elizabethan design, which crowned a gentle
eminence and looked out picturesquely on all
sides from amongst its neighbouring trees. It
had a sturdier aspect in its age than it could
have worn when younger, for its strength had the
sign-manual of time upon it, and even its hoary
lichens looked as much like a prophecy as a record.

A mile away, but also within the boundaries
of Castle Barfield parish, there stood another
house upon another eminence : a house of older
date than Perry Hall, though of less pleasing and
picturesque an air. The long low building was
of a darkish stone, and had been altered and
added to so often that it had at last arrived at a
complex ugliness which was not altogether displeasing.
The materials for its structure had all
been drawn at different periods from the same
stone quarry, and the chequered look of new bits
and old bits had a hint of the chess-board. Here
Samson Mountain dwelt on his own land in the
midst of his own people.

The Mountain Farm, as it was called, and had
been called time out of mind, was separated from
the Perry Hall Farm by a very shallow and narrow
brook. The two houses were built as far
apart from each other as they could be, whilst
remaining in their own boundaries, as if the
builder of the later one had determined to set as

great a distance as he could between his neighbour
and himself. And as a matter of fact the
Keddys and the Mountains were a sort of capulet
and Montagues, and had hated each other
for generations. Samson and Abel kept up the
ancient grudge in all its ancient force. They
were of the same age within a week or two, had
studied at the same school, and had fought there :
had at one time courted the same girl, had sat
within sight of each other Sunday after Sunday
and year after year in the parish church, had
each buried father and mother in the parish
churchyard, and in the mind of each the thought
of the other rankled like a sore.

The manner of their surrendering their
common courtship was characteristic of their
common hatred. Somewhere about the beginning
of this century a certain Miss Jenny Eusker,
of Castle Barfield, was surrounded by quite a
swarm of lovers. She was pretty, she was well-to-do,
for her time and station, she was accomplished

— playing the harp (execrably), working
samplers in silk and wool with great diligence
and exactitude, and having read a prodigious
number of plays, poems, and romances. What
this lady's heart forged that her mouth did vent,
but no pretty young woman ever looked or
sounded foolish to the eyes or ears of her lovers.
Mountain and Eeddy were among her solicitors.
She liked them both, and had not quite made up
her mind as to which, if either of them, she would
choose, when suddenly the knowledge of the
other's occasional presence in her sitting-room
made the house odious to each, and they surrendered
the chase almost at the same hour.
Miss Jenny satisfied herself with a cousin of her
own, married without changing her name, had
children, was passably happy, as the world goes,
and lived to be a profoundly sentimental but inveterate
widow. Mountain and Eeddy married
girls they would not otherwise have chosen, and
were passably happy also, except when the sore

of ancient hatred was inflamed by a chance meeting
on the corn exchange or an accidental passage
of the eyes at church. They had no better
authority for hating each other than that their
fathers had hated each other before them. The
fathers had the authority of the grandfathers, and
they, that of the great-grandfather

was Saturday afternoon. There was a
bleak frost abroad, and even the waters of the
brook which divided the two farms were hard
frozen. The sun hung low in the western sky,
lustreless as a wafer, but ruddy. The fields were
powdered with thin snow, and the earth was
black by contrast with it. Now and then a shot
sounded far away, but clear and sharp, from
where the guests of my lord of Barfield were
killing time in the warren.

A labouring man, smock-frocked, billy-cocked,
gartered, and hob-nailed, was clamping down the
frozen lane, the earth ringing like iron under iron

VOL. II H

as he walked. By his side was a fair-haired lad
of nine or ten years of age, a boy of frank and
engaging countenance, carefully and even daintily
dressed, and holding up his head as if he were a
lord of the soil and knew it. The boy and the
labourer were talking, and on the frosty silence
of the fields the clear treble of the boy's speech
rang out clearly and carried far. A burly man,
• with a surly red face, who had stooped to button
a gaiter, in a meadow just beyond the brook, and
had laid down his gun beside him the while,
heard both voice and words whilst the speaker
was a hundred yards away.

But don't you think it's very wicked,
Ichabod ? '

The labourer's voice only reached the listener
in the meadow. He spoke with the Barfield
drawl, and his features, which were stiffened by
the frozen wind, were twisted into a look of
habitual waggery.

Well said he in answer to his young companion,

'maybe, Master Eichard, it might be
wicked, but it's main like nature.'

I shan't hate Joe Mountain when I'm a
man,' said the boy.

The surly man in the field, hearing these
words, looked on a sudden surlier still, and throwing
up his head with a listening air, and holding
his ankle with both hands, crouched and craned
his neck to listen.

'May'st have to change thy mind, Master
Eichard,' said the labourer.

Why should I change my mind, Ichabod ? '
asked the boy, looking up at him.

Why ? ' answered Ichabod, ' they'll never have
it said as thee wast afraid of any o' the Mountain
lot.'

1 I'm not afraid of him,' piped the engaging
young cockerel. 'We had a fight in the coppice
last holidays, and I beat him. The squire caught
us, and we were going to stop, but he made us
go on, and he saw fair. Then he made us shake

hands after. Joe Mountain wouldn't say he'd
had enough, but the squire threw up the sponge
for him. And he gave us two half-crowns
apiece, and said we were both good plucked uns.'

Ah ! ' said Ichabod, with warmth, ' he's the
right sort is the squire. And there's no sort or
kind o' sport as comes amiss to him. A gentleman
after my own heart.'

He made us shake hands and promise we'd
be friends,' said Master Eichard, ' and we're going
to be.'

Make him turn the brook back first, Master
Eichard,' said Ichabod. The two were almost at
the bridge by this time, and the listener could
hear distinctly.

1 Turn the brook back ? ' the boy asked.
What do you mean, Ichabod ? '

'Ax thy feather, when thee greatest home,'
answered Ichabod. ' He'll tell thee all the rights
on it. So fur as I can make out — and it was
the talk o' the country i' my grandfather's

daysen — it amounts to this. Look here ! ' He
and the boy arrested their steps on the bridge,
and Ichabod pointed along the frozen track of
the brook. ' Seest that hollow ten rods off ? It
was in the time o' Cromwell. Hast heard tell o'
Cromwell, I mek no doubt ? '

Oliver Cromwell,' said Master Richard. ' He
was Lord Protector of England. He fought King
Charles.'

Like enough,' said Ichabod. ' In his daysen,
many 'ears ago, there was the Eeddys here and
the Mountains there ' — indicating either house in
turn by pointing with his thumb — 'just as they
be now. The Rudely o' that day — he was thy
grandfather's grandfather as like as not —
maybe he was his grandfather for aught as I can
tell, for it's a deadly-dreadful heap o' time long
past — the Reddy o' that day went to the wars,
and foot for Cromwell. The Mountain o' that
time stopped at hum. L T p to then they'd never
been befriended as fur as I know. That's how

it's put about, anyway. But whilst the Eeddy
was away, what's the Mountain do ? '

The boy was looking at Ichabod, and Ichabod,
stooping a little to be the more impressive, was
looking at him. The surly-faced man with the
gun had hitherto been concealed by the hedge
beside which he had knelt to fasten his gaiter, and
neither of the two had suspected his presence. It
was natural, therefore, that both of them should
start a little when his voice reached them.

Well ? ' The voice was sour and surly, like
the face, and the word was rapped out sharp and
clear. Master Eichard and Ichabod turned with
one accord. ' Well ? ' says the surly man, ' what
does the Mountain do ? '

Ichabod, less discomfited by the suddenness
of the interruption than might have been expected
of him, rubbed the frozen base of his nose
with a cold forefinger and grinned. Master
Eichard looked from one to the other with a
frank and fearless interest and inquiry which

became him very prettily. The surly man
bestowed a passing scowl upon him, and turned
his angry regard again upon Ichabod.

1 Come, now,' he said, ' you backbiting, scandal-wondering
old liar ! "What does the Mountain
do ? Out with it ! '

■ Why, neither thee nor me was there at
the time, gaffer,' responded Ichabod, his frosty
features still creased with a grin. ' So neither
thee nor me can talk for certain. Can us ? '

"' I suppose,' said the surly, burly man, ' you're
going to stuff that young monkey with the old
lie about the stream being turned ? '

Ichabod made no verbal response, but continued
to rub his nose with his forefinger, and to
grin with an aspect of uncertain humour. The
surly man stooped for his gun, threw it over his
arm, and stared at Ichabod and his young companion
with eyes of hatred and disdain. Then,
having somewhat relieved his feelings by a curse
or two, he turned his back and went off with a

long, heavy, dogged-looking stride, his feet crunching
noisily through the frosty grasses.

1 It seat for me to talk about my betters, and
them as the Lord has put in authority over us,'
said Ichabod, with an expression which belied
these words of humility ; ' but I put it to thee,
Master Eichard. Dost think that old Mountain
their looks like a likeable un ? No, no. Might
as well expect cat an' dog t' agree as Eeddy and
Mountain.'

This speech was made in a carefully modulated
tone, when he and the boy were at some distance
from the surly man, who was still visible, three
or four fields away.

What was it about the brook, Ichabod ? '
asked Master Eichard.

Why,' said Ichabod, ' when that old longaway
grandfather o' thine was away a-fighting for
Cromwell, 'tis said his neighbour turned the brook
so as to bring in four-score acres o' land as ud
never have been his by right. The Eeddy o' that

day died in the wars, and his wider could mek
no head again the Mountain lot ; but her taught
her son to hate 'em and look down upon 'em, and
hated an' looked down upon is the name on 'em
from that day to this.'

But Joe Mountain didn't do it,' said Master
Eichard.

No, no,' assented Ichabod. ' But it's i' this
way. It's i' the blood. What's bred i' the bone
will come out i' the flesh. Afore thee makes
friends with young Joe Mountain, Master Eichard,
thee ax thy feather.'

Master Eichard, lapsing into silence, thought
things over.

1 Ichabod,' he said at last, * is a boy bound to
be bad if he has a bad grandfather ? '

1 Sure ! ' said Ichabod, who was not going to
be worsted in argument for want of corroborative
fact if he could help it.

Master Eichard thought things over a little
while longer, and returned to the charge.

Suppose the boy with the bad grandfather
had a good grandmother, Ichabod ? '

None of the Mountain lot ever had,' Ichabod
replied. There was no item in Ichabod's creed
more fixed than this — the Mountains of Mountain
Farm were hateful and contemptible He
had imbibed the belief with his mother's milk
and his father's counsel. His grandfather had
known it for the one cardinal certainty of nature.

Just as the serving-men of Capulet hated the
serving-men of Montague, so the oldest servants
of the Mountains hated the older servants of the
Eeddys. The men made the masters' quarrel
their own. There was a feudal spirit in the
matter, and half the fights of this outlying district
of the parish were provoked by that ancient
history of the brook. At this time of day it
mattered very little indeed if the history was
true or false, for neither proof nor disproof was
possible, and the real mischief was done past
remedy in any case.

'Are you sure our side fought for Cromwell.
Ichabod ? ' Master Richard asked, after another
long and thoughtful silence.

To be sure said Ichabod.

I don't think it can be true, then, about the
brook said the boy, : because Cromwell won, and
everybody who was on his side had their own
way. Mr. Greenfield teaches history at school,
and he says so.'

This was nothing to Ichabod, whose intellect
was not constructed for the reception of historical
evidences.

'Then ax thy feather, Master Pdchard/ he
answered ; ' he'll tell thee the rights on it.'

The boy walked on pondering, as children of
his age will do. The seniors woidd be surprised
pretty often if they could guess how deep and far
the young thoughts go, but, then, the seniors have
forgotten their own young days, or were never of
a thinking habit. Ichabod clamped along with
his mind on beer. The boy thought his own

thoughts, and each was indifferent for a while to
outer signs and sounds. But suddenly a little
girl ran round a corner of the devious lane with
a brace of young savages in pursuit. The youthful
savages had each an armful of snowballs, and
they were pelting the child with more animus
than seemed befitting. The very tightness with
which the balls were pressed seemed to say that
they were bent less on sport than mischief, and
they came whooping and dancing round the
corner with such rejoicing cruelty as only boys or
uncivilised men can feel. The little girl was
sobbing, half in distress, and half because of the
haste she had made, and Master Eichard's
juvenile soul burnt within him at the sight like
that of a knight-errant. He had read a great
deal about knights-errant for the time which had
been as yet allowed him for the pursuit of literature,
and he was by nature a boy of much fire
and gentleness, and a very sympathetic imagination.
So the big heart in the small body swelled

with pity and grew hot with valour, and, without
parley, he smote the foremost boy, who happened
to be the bigger of the two, and went headlong
into fight with him.

Ichabod followed the young master's lead
without knowing, or in the smallest degree
caring, why, and tried to seize the smaller savage,
who skilfully evaded him and ran. The little
maiden stood and trembled with clasped hands as
she looked upon the fray. Ichabod lifted his
smock-frock to get his hands into the pockets of
his corduroys, and watched with the air of an old
artist standing behind a young one.

1 You shouldn't work at it so much, Master
Eichard,' said Ichabod. ' Tek it easier, and wait
for him. That's it ! '

The combat was brief and decisive. The
youthful savage carried the heavier metal, but he
was slow with it ; but suddenly, as if to show
that he was not altogether without activity, he
turned and ran his hardest. Master Eichard,

with blue-gray eyes still glistening and hands still
clenched in the ardour of battle, turned upon the
little girl, who was some two years younger than
himself. At the sight of her he turned shy and
blushed, and the little girl turned shy and blushed
also. She looked at the ground, and then she
looked at Eichard, and then she looked at the
ground again. She was slender and delicate, and
had very beautiful soft brown eyes, and the hero
of a minute back was abashed before her.

You 'm a Mountain, saint you ? ' said Ichabod,
looking at her with disfavour. She looked shyly
at him, but did not answer. 'What's your
name ? ' he asked, stooping towards her.

1 Julia Mountain,' said the child, in a trembling
treble.

Ah ! ' said Ichabod, ' I thought so. Come
along, Master Eichard, or else we shall never get
hum again afore dark.'

Master Eichard walked away with backward
glances, shyly directed at the little girl, and the

little girl stood with her cheek inclining to her
shoulder, and the shoulder drawn up a little, as
if to shelter her, and looked after him. This exchange
went on until Ichabod and the boy had
turned the corner of the lane, when Miss Julia
Mountain ran home as fast as her small legs
would take her, and Master Eichard Rudely, with
a vision in his mind, walked alongside his companion.


'You should tek a lesson or two, Master
Eichard,' said Ichabod, 'and then thee'dst do a
heap better. I'm rusty nowadays, but I used
to love it when I was a young un.'

Master Eichard heard nothing of this or of
the advice which followed it. He enacted many
times over the small adventure of the last five
minutes, and at the end of every mental history
he traced, the little figure stood in the lane looking
shyly at him over one shoulder as he turned
the corner.

Samson Mountain went home in an ill-temper,
and, as was usual with him when in that condition,
did everything he had to do with a sulky
and noisy emphasis, bursting open doors with
unnecessary violence, slamming them with needless
force behind him, and clamping heavily from
room to room. His wife, who was submissive at
the surface, but unconquerable at bottom, knew
these signs, and accepted them with outer show
of meekness. Samson tramped into the sitting-room,
and there found his wife alone. He flung
to the door behind him with a crash which would
have been startling if it had been unexpected, and
fell heavily into a roomy arm-chair by the fireside.
Mrs. Mountain took no notice of this, but

went on placidly with her sewing. Samson threw
his heavily-booted feet noisily into the fender,
and still Mrs. Mountain went on placidly, without
so much as looking at him. Stung by this
disregard of his obvious ill-humour, Samson made
a lunge with his foot at the fire-irons, and
brought them down with a bang.

1 Law a daisy me, Samson,' said his wife
mildly. ' What's the matter with the man ? '

1 Matter ! ' growled Samson. ' It's a thing as
ud get a saint to set his back up. I was down
i' the bridge lease bare an hour ago, and who
should I see but that young imp of a Eeddy
along wi' that old viper of a Bubb. Thee
know'st the chap — that Ichabod.'

1 know him, Samson,' answered Mrs. Mountain.
' He's the most impudent of all of 'em.'

They stood atop o' the bridge,' pursued Samson,
' and I could hear 'em talking'. Th' ode rip
was tellin' the young un that outworn lie about
the brook. I'd got a shot i' the barrel, and I'd

VOL. II I

more than half a mind to ha' peppered him. I'd
ha' done it if it had been worth while.'

There's no end to their malice and uncharitableness,'
said Mrs. Mountain.

I heard the young imp say he'd foot our
Joe and licked him,' pursued Samson. ' If ever
it should come to my knowledge as a truth I'd
put Master Joe in such fettle he wouldn't sit
down for the best side a month o' Sundays.'

1 They 'm giving the child such airs said his
wife, 'it's enough to turn the bread o' life which
nourishes.'

Mrs. Mountain had an object in view, and,
after her own fashion, had held it long in view in
silence. The moment seemed to her propitious,
and she determined to approach it.

1 Young toad ! ' said Samson, rising to kick at
the coals with his heavy-heeled boot, and plunging
backward into the chair again.

To hear him talk — that fine an' mincing' —
you'd think he was one o' my lord's grandchildren

or a son o' the squire's at least said Mrs. Mountain,
approaching her theme with circuitous
caution.

1 Ay ! ' Samson assented. ' It's enough to turn
your stomach to listen to him.'

If they go on as they're going,' pursued his
wife, circling a little nearer, ' we shall live to see
fine things.'

We shall, indeed,' said Samson, a little mollified
to find his wife so unusually warm in the
quarrel ' There's no such a thing as contentment
to be found amongst 'em. They settle upto
be looked upon as gentlefolks.'

Yes ; fine things we shall live to see, no
doubt, if we don't tek care. But thanks be,
Samson, it's left in our own hands.'

What best hovering' at ? ' demanded Samson,
turning upon her with his surly red face.

1 Things ain't what they used to be when you
an' me was younger,' said Mrs. Mountain. ' The
plain ode-fashioned Barfield talk as you and me

was bred up to, Samson, ain't good enough nowadays
for the very kitchen wenches and the
labourers on the farm. Everybody's getting' that
new-fangled ! '

Barfield's good enough for me, and good
enough for mine said Samson, with sulky wrath.

It's good enough for we, to be sure, but
whether it's good enough for our is another
churning' o' butter altogether,' his wife answered.
1 It ud seem as if every generation talked different
from one another. My mother, as was a very
well-spoken woman for her day, used to call a
cup o' tay a dish o' tay, and that's a thing as
only the very ignorant ud stoop to nowadays.'
Samson growled, and wallowed discontentedly in
the big arm-chair. ' A mother's got her natural
feelings, Samson,' Mrs. Mountain continued, with
an air and tone of mildest resignation. ' I don't
scruple to allow as it'll hurt me if I should live
to see our Joe looked down upon by a Eeddy.'

Looked down upon !' cried Samson. ' Where's

the Eeddy as can count acre for acre agen us, or
guinea for guinea ? '

The Eeddys is fairly well - to - do, Samson,'
said Mrs. Mountain; 'very nigh as well-to-do
as we be.'

1 Pooh ! ' returned Samson.

1 Oh, but they be, though,' his wife insisted.
1 Pretty near. There's nothing so much between
us as'd prevent 'em from taking airs with us if
they could find out anything to do it for.'

1 If they could ! ' Samson assented. ' Abel
Eeddy was a bragger and a boaster from his
cradle days.'

1 That's where it is,' cried Mrs. Mountain, ina
tone which implied that Samson had made a
discovery of the first importance, and that this
discovery unexpectedly confirmed her own argument.
' Let 'em have the least little bit of a
chance for a brag, and where be you ? '

You might trust 'em to tek advantage on it
if they had it,' said her husband.

Of course you might said she, with warmth,
and that's why I'm fearful on it.'

Fearful o' what ? ' demanded Samson.

0' these here scornful fine-gentleman ways
as'll be a thorn in our Joe's side as long as he
lives, poor little chap, unless we put him in the
way to combat again 'em.'

Ah ! ' Samson growled, suddenly enlightened.
I see now what thee best driven' at. Now,
you tek a straight saying' from me, Mary Ann.
I'll have no fine-mouthed, false-natur'd corruption
i' my household. If the Eeddys choose to breed
up that young imp of their to drawl fine and to
talk smooth above his station — let 'em.'

1 Well, Samson,' returned Mrs. Mountain, who
knew by long experience when her husband was
malleable, ' you know best, and you're the master
here, as it's only fit and becoming' an' in the rightful
nature o' things as you should be.'

The first effect of the oil of flattery seemed to
be to harden him.

1 be, and I mean to be,' he answered, with
added surliness. ' If the speech and the clothes
and the vittles as have been good enough for me
ain't good enough for any young upstart as may
follow after me, it is a pity.'

Mary Ann kept silence and looked meek.
Samson growled and bullied a little, and wore
the airs of a dictator. By and by a serving-maid
came in and began to arrange the table for tea,
and a little later a boy and a girl stole noiselessly
into the room.

1 Joe,' said Samson sternly, ' come here ! ' The
boy approached him with evident dread. ' What's this
I hear about thee and that young villain of a Eeddy ? '

I don't know, father,' the boy answered.

1 heard him making' a boast this afternoon,'
said Samson, rolling bullying in his arm-chair,
1 as you and him had foot last holidays, and ashe
given you a hiding.'

Joe said nothing, but looked as if he expected
the experience to be repeated.

Now, what ha' you got to say to that ? ' demanded
his father.

'Why began Joe, edging back a little, 'he's
bigger nor I be, an' six months orders

'Do you mean to tell me,' cried Samson,
reaching out a hand and seizing the little fellow
by the jacket, ' do you mean to tell me as you
allowed to have enough to that young villain ? '

No Joe protested. ' That I never did. It
was the squire as parted us.'

1 You remember this said his father, shaking
him to emphasise the promise. ' If ever you
agree to tek a hiding from a Eeddy you've got
one to follow on from me. D'ye hear ? '

'Yes, father

Tek heed as well as hear. D'ye hear ? '

Yes, father

'And here's another thing, mind you. It's
brought to me as you and him shook hands and
took on to be friends with one another. Is that
trew ? ' Joe looked guilty, but made no answer.

1 Is it trew ? ' Still Joe returned no answer, and
his father changing the hand with which he held
him, for his own greater convenience, knocked
him off his feet, restored him to his balance,
knocked him off his feet again, and again settled
him. ' Now said Samson, ' is it trew ? '

The boy tried to recoil from the uplifted
threatening hand, and cried out ' Xo ! '

Now,' said Samson, rising with a grim satisfaction,
' that's a lie. There's nothing' i' the world
as I abhor from like a lie. I'll teach thee to tell
me lies. Goo into the brewus and tek thy shirt
off. March ! '

The little girl clung to her mother's skirts
crying and trembling. The mother herself was
trembling, and had turned pale.

1 Hush, hush, my pretty she said, caressing
the child, and averting her eyes from Joe.

• March ! ' said Samson, and Joe slunk out of
the room, hardening his heart as well as might
be for endurance. But when he was once out of

sight of the huge bullying figure and threatening
eye and hand, the sight of his cap lying upon a
chair in the hall supplied him with an inspiration.
He seized the cap, slipped out at the
front door, and ran.

The early winter night was falling fast by this
time. Half a dozen stars twinkled intermittently
in the black-blue waste of sky, and when the lad
paused to listen for possible sounds of pursuit
the hollow moaning of the wind and the clang of
bare wintry poles mingled with the noise of his
own suppressed breathing.

The runaway fancied himself bound (as all
British runaway boys seem bound) for sea, and
he set out without delay to walk to Liverpool.
He got as far as the brook which formed the
limit to his father's farm, and lingering before he
set foot upon the bridge, began to cry a little,
and to bemoan his chances and the dear ones left
behind. His father came in for none of Joe's
regrets. It was in the nature of things to the

boy's mind that his father should administer to
him periodical thrashing, whether he had earned
them or not. It was the one social relationship
which existed between them. It was only quite
of late that Joe had begun to discern injustice
in his father's buildings. Children take things
as they come, and to the mind of a child — in a
modified sense, of course — whatever is, is right.
That a thing exists is its own best justification.
There is no reason to seek reasons for it. But
Joe Mountain, having nearly outgrown this state
of juvenile acquiescence, had begun to make inquiry
of himself, and, as a result, had familiarised
himself with many mental pictures in which he
figured as an adventurer rich in adventures. In
his day the youth of England were less instructed
than they are now, but the immortal Defoe
existed, and Lemuel Tulliver was as real as he is
to-day. Perhaps the Board schools may have
made that great mariner a little less real than he
used to be. Joe believed in him with all his

heart, had never had the shadow of a doubt
about him, and meant to sail straight from Liverpool
to Lilliput. He would defer his voyage to
Brobdingnagia until he had grown bigger, and
should be something of a match for its inhabitants.


But it was cold, it was darkening fast, it
was past his ordinary tea-time. Liverpool and
Lilliput were far away, pretty nearly equi-distant
to the juvenile mind, and but for Samson's
shadow the tea-table would have looked alluring.
To be sure of tea, and a bed to sleep in afterwards,
it seemed almost worth while to go back
to the brew house and obey the paternal command
to take his shirt off. To do the child justice, it
was less the fear of the thrashing than the hot
sense of rebellion at unfairness which kept him
from returning. His father had beaten him into
that untrue cry of ' No,' and had meant to force
him to it, and then to beat him anew for it. Joe
knew that better than Samson, for Samson, like

the rest of us, liked to stand well with himself,
and kept self-opinion in blinkers.

Joe set foot on the bridge. He had crossed
the boundary brook hundreds of times in his
brief life, and it had generally come into his
mind, with a boyish sense of adventure, that
when he did so he was putting foot into the
enemy's country. But the feeling had never
been so strong as now. The Mountain Farm
was home, and beyond it lay the wide, wide
world, looking wide indeed, and bleak and cold.
What with hot rebellion at injustice and cold
fear of the vast and friendless expanse, Joe's
tears multiplied, and leaning his arms upon the
low coping of the bridge, with his head between
them and his nose touching the frozen stone, he
began to cry unrestrainedly.

Suddenly he heard a footstep, and it struck a
new terror into his soul. Freebooters, footpads,
kidnappers, et hoc genus omne, roamed those fields
by night, in course of nature. To the snug security

of the home fireside and bed their images came
with a delightful thrill of fear, but to be here
alone and in the midst of them was altogether
another thing. He crept crouching across the
bridge, and stowed himself into the smallest
possible compass between the end of the stonework
and the neighbouring hedgerow, and there
waited trembling. His pulses beat so fast and
made such a noise in his ears that he was ready
to take the sound of footsteps for the tread of a
whole ogreish army, when he heard a voice.
Hope on a minute, while I shift the sack.'
The sack ? It was easy — it was inevitable —
to know that the sack contained a goblin supper.
I shall be late for tea, Ichabod,' said another
voice, 'and then I shall get a blowing-up for
coming

Let him who sighs in sadness here,
Rejoice, and know a friend is near.

Joe sprang from his hiding-place, and startled
Master Eichard and Ichabod more than a little.

That thee, Dick ? '

He knew it well enough, but it was quite
delightful to be able to ask it with certainty.

Hill,' said Master Eichard, recognising his
sworn friend. ' What are you doing ? Are you
trapping anything ? '

No the hereditary enemy answered. He had
been crying, the poor little chap, until he had
been frightened into quiet, and now on a sudden
he was as brave and as glad again as ever he had
been in his life. Once more adventures loomed
ahead for the adventurous, and he shone within
and grew warm with the sweet reflux of courage
as he whispered, ' I'm running away from
home !'

Once again, the feat was glorious.

No ? ' said Master Eichard, smitten with
envy and admiration. ' Are you ? Really ?'

1 Yes,' Joe answered. ' I'm agooin' to Liverpool,
to begin wi'

This was exquisitely large and vague, and

Master Eichard began to yearn for a share in the
high enterprise upon which his friend had entered.
He had half a mind to run away from home himself,
though, to be sure, there was nothing else to
run away from. In Joe's case there was a difference.


'Where are you going to stay to-night?'
asked Master Eichard. The question sounded
practical, but at bottom it was nothing of the
sort. It was part of the romance of the thing,
and yet it threw cold water on Joe's newly-lighted
courage, and put it out again.

1 1 don't know,' said Joe, somewhat forlornly.

I say,' interjected Ichabod, ' is that young
Mountain, Master Eichard ? '

Yes,' said Master Eichard.

1 Thee know'st thy feather is again thy
speaking' to him, and his feather is again his
speaking' to thee.'

1 You mind your own business, Ichabod,' said
the young autocrat, who was a little spoiled

perhaps, and had been accustomed to have his
own way in quite a princely fashion.

1 I'm minding' it returned Ichabod. ' It's a part
o' my business to keep thee out o' mischief.'

'Ah ! ' piped Master Richard, ' you needn't
mind that part of your business to-night.'

All right,' said Ichabod, shouldering the
sack he had meanwhile balanced on the coping
of the bridge. f See as thee doesn't late for tay-time.'


With that, having discharged his conscience,
he went on again, and the two boys stayed
behind.

1 What are you running away for ? ' asked
Richard.

Why, feather said it was brought to him as
you and me had shook hands and had took on to
be friends with one another, and he told me to
go into the brewus and take my shirt off.'

Take your shirt off ? ' inquired the other.
In Joe's lifetime, short as it was, he had had

VOL. II k

opportunity to grow familiar with this fatherly
formula, but it was strange to Master Eichard.
1 What for ? '

What for ! Why, to get a hiding', to be
sure.'

Look here ! ' said Eichard, having digested
this, ' you come and stop in one of our barns.
Have you had your tea ? '

1 No,' returned Joe, ' I shouldn't ha' minded
so much if I had.'

I'll bring something out to you,' said the
protector.

So the two lads set out together, and to evade
Ichabod, struck off at a run across the fields, Joe
pantingly setting forth, in answer to his comrade's
questions, how he was going to be a sailor or a
pirate, ' or summit,' or to have a desert island
like Crusoe. Of course, it was all admirable to
both of them, and, of course, it was all a great
deal more real than the fields they ran over.

The runaway was safely deposited in a roomy

barn, and left there alone, when once again a life
of adventures began to assume a darkish complexion.
It was cold, it was anxious, it seemed
to drag interminably, and it was abominably
lonely. If it were to be all like this, even the
prospect of an occasional taking off of one's shirt
in the brew house looked less oppressive than it
had done.

The hidden Joe, bound for piracy on the high
seas, or a Crusoe's island somewhere, gave a
wonderful zest to Master Eichard's meal. But
an hour, which seemed like a year to the less
fortunate of the two, went by before a raid upon
the well-furnished larder of Perry Hall could be
effected. When the opportunity came, Master
Eichard, with no remonstrance from conscience,
laid hands upon a loaf and a dish of delicious
little cakes of fried pork fat, from which the lard
had that day been ' rendered,' and thus supplied,
stole out to his hereditary enemy and fed him.
The hereditary enemy complained of cold, and his

host groped the dark place for sacks, and, having
found them, brought them to him.

I say,' said Joe, when he had tasted the
provender, ' them's scratching. That's gay and
fine. I never had as many as I should like
afore. Mother says they're too rich, but that's
all rubbish.'

He made oily feast in the dark, with the sacks
heaped about him. With Master Richard to help
him, he began to swim in adventure, and the pair
were so fascinated and absorbed that one of the
farm-servants went bawling 'Master Richard'
about the outlying buildings for two or three
minutes before they heard him. When at last the
call reached their ears they had to wait until it
died away again before the surreptitious host dare
leave the barn, lest his being seen should draw
attention to the place.

Then Joe, who had been hunting wild beasts
of all sorts with the greatest possible gusto, began
in turn to be hunted by them. The rattlesnake,

hitherto unknown to Castle Barfield, became a
common object ; the lion and the polar bear met
on common ground in the menagerie of Joe's
imagination. Whatever poor blessings and hopes
he had, and whatever schoolboy wealth he owned,
he would have surrendered all of them to be in
the brew house of the Mountain Farm, even though
he were there to take his shirt off. But the
empty, impassable, awful night stood between
hint and any refuge, and he must need stay
where he was, and sweat with terror under his
sacks, through all the prodigious tracts of time
which lay between the evening and the morning.
He was to have been up and afoot for Liverpool
before dawn, but tired nature chose the time he
had fixed for starting to send him to sleep, and
when Master Richard stole into the barn with
intent to disperse the sacks and clear away any
sign of Joe's occupancy, he found him slumbering
soundly, with a tear-stained cheek resting on a
dirty brown hand.

There had been the wildest sort of hubbub and
disorder at the Mountain Farm all night. Mrs.
Mountain had wept and wrung her hands, and
rocking herself to and fro, had poured forth
doleful prophecy. Samson, who had begun with
bluster, had fallen into anxiety, and had himself
traced the course of the brook for a full mile by
lanthorn-light. The farm hands had been sent
abroad, and had tracked every road without result.
Of course the one place where nobody so much as
thought of making inquiry was the house of the
hereditary foe, but pretty early, in the course of
the morning, the news of Joe Mountain's disappearance,
and something of the reasons for it,
reached Perry Hall. Everybody at Perry Hall
knew already what a terrible personage Samson
Mountain was, and his behaviour on this occasion
was the theme of scathing comment.

Master Eichard was guilty at heart, but
exultant. Being a boy of lively imagination, he
took to a secrecy so profound, and became so

strikingly stealthy as to excite observation and
remark. He was watched and tracked to the
barn, and then the discovery came about as a
matter of course. The Eeddys made much of
Joe — they had no quarrel with an innocent
persecuted child — but their kindness and commiseration
were simply darts to throw at Samson.

It was noon when Eecldy put the trembling
adventurer into his trap, and with his own hands
drove him home. The two enemies met and
glowered at each other.

I've found your lad and brought him home,'
said Eeddy ; ' though I doubt it's a cruel kindness
to him.'

Samson, with all the gall in his nature burning
at his heart, lifted Joe from the trap and set
him on the ground in silence. Eeddy, in silence,
turned his horse's head, touched him with the
whip, and drove away. Joe was welcomed home
by a thrashing, which he remembers in old age.

The episode bore fruit in several ways. To

begin with, Master Joe was packed off to a distant
school, far from that to which young Reddy
was sent. But the boys found each other out in
the holidays, and became firm friends on the sly,
and Joe was so loyal and admiring that he never
ceased to talk to his one confidante of the courage,
the friendliness, the generosity, the agility, and
skill of his secret hero. The confidante was his
sister Julia, to whom the young hereditary enemy
became a synonym for whatever is lovely and of
good report. She used to look at him in church
she had little other opportunity of observing
him — and would think in her childish innocent
mind how handsome and noble he looked. He
did not speak like the Barfield boys, or look
like them, or walk like them. He was a young
prince, heir to vast estates, and a royal title in
fairyland. If story-books were few and far
between, the sentimental foolish widow, Jenny
Rusker, was a mine of narrative, and a single
fairy tale is enough to open all other fairy lore

to a child's imagination. If the little girl worshipped
the boy, he, in his turn, looked kindly
down on her. He had fought for her once at
odds of two to one, and he gave her a smile now
and then. It happened that in this wise began
the curious, half-laughable, and half-pathetic little
history which buried the hatreds of the Castle
Barfield Capulet and Montague for ever.

In this Castle Barfield version of Borneo and
Juliet the parody would have been impossible
without the aid and intervention of some sort of
Friar Laurence. He was a notability of those
parts in those days, and he was known as the
Dudley Devil. In these enlightened times he
would have been dealt with as a rogue and
vagabond, and, not to bear too hardly upon an
historical personage, whom there is nobody (even
with all our wealth of historical charity-mongers)
to whitewash, he deserved richly in his own day
the treatment he would have experienced in ours.
He discovered stolen property — when his confederates
aided him ; he put the eye on people
obnoxious to his clients, for a consideration ; he

overlooked milch cows, and they yielded blood ;
he went about in the guise of a great gray tomcat.
It was historically true in my childhood —
though, like other things, it may have ceased to
be historically true since then — that it was in
this disguise of the great gray tom-cat that he
met his death. He was fired at by a farmer, the
wounded cat crawled into the wizard's cottage,
and the demon restored to human form was
found dying later on with a gun-shot charge in
his ribs. There were people alive a dozen — nay,
half a dozen — years ago, who knew these things,
to whom it was blasphemous to dispute them.

The demon's earthly name was Eufus Smith,
and he lived ' by Dudley Wood side, where the
wind blows cold as the local ballad puts it.
His mother had dealt in the black art before
him, and was ducked to death in the Severn by
the bridge in the ancient town of Bentley. He
was a lean man, with a look of surly fear. It
is likely enough that he half expected some of

his invocations to come true one fine day or
other, with consequences painful to himself. The
old notions are dying out fast, but it used to be
said in that region that when a man talked to
himself he was talking with the universal enemy.
Eufus and his mother were great chatterers in
solitude, and what possible companion could
they have but one ?

It is not to be supposed that all the ministrations
for which the people of the country-side
relied upon Eufus were mischievous. If he had
done nothing but overlook cattle and curse crops,
and so forth, he would have been hunted out.
Some passably good people have been said, upon
occasions, to hold a candle to the devil. With a
similar diversion from general principle, Eufus
was known occasionally to perform acts of harmless
utility. He charmed away warts and corns,
he prepared love philtres, and sold lucky stones.
He foreran the societies which insure against
accident, and would guarantee whole bones for a

year or a lifetime, according to the insurer's
purse or fancy. He told fortunes by the palm
and by the cards, and was the sole proprietor
and vendor of a noted heal-all salve of magic
properties.

He and his mother had gathered together between
them a respectable handful of ghastly
trifles, which were of substantial service alike to
him and to his clients. A gentleman coming to
have his corns or warts charmed away would be
naturally assisted towards faith by the aspect of
the polecat's skeleton, the skulls of two or three
local criminals, and the shrivelled, mummified
dead things which hung about the walls or depended
head downwards from the ceiling. These
decorations apart, the wizard's home was a little
commonplace. It stood by itself in a bare hollow,
an unpicturesque and barn - like cottage, not
altogether weather-proof.

It fell upon a clay that Mrs. Jenny Busier
drove over from Castle Barfield to pay Eufus a

visit. She rode in a smart little trap, the kind
of thing employed by the better sort of rustic
tradesmen, and drove a smart little pony. She
was a motherly, foolish, good creature, who, next
to the reading of plays and romances, loved to
have children about her and to make them
happy. On this particular day she had Master
Eichard with her. She kept up her acquaintance
with both her old lovers, and was on terms of
rather coolish friendship with them. But she
adored their children, and would every now and
again make a descent on the house of one or
other of her old admirers and ravish away a
child for a day or two.

Mrs. Jenny had consoled herself elsewhere
for the loss of lovers for whom she had never
cared a halfpenny, but she had never ceased to
hold a sort of liking for both her old suitors.
Their claims had formerly been pretty evenly
balanced in her mind, and even now, when the
affair was ancient enough in all conscience to

have been naturally and quietly buried long ago,
she never met either of her quondam lovers
without some touch of old-world coquetry in her
manner. The faintest and most far-away touch
of anything she could call romance was precious
to the old woman, and having a rare good heart
of her own under all her superannuated follies,
she adored the children. Dick was her especial
favourite, as was only natural, for he was pretty
enough and regal enough with his childish airs
of petit grand seigneur to make him beloved of
most women who met him. "Women admire the
frank masterfulness of a generous and half-spoiled
boy, and Mrs. Jenny saw in the child the
prophecy of all she had thought well of in his
father, refined by the grace of childhood and by
a better breeding than the father had ever had.

So she and Dick were great allies, and there
was always cake and elderberry wine and an
occasional half-crown for him at Laburnum Cottage.
It was only natural that, so fostered.

Dick's affection for the old lady should be considerable.
She was his counsellor and confidante
from his earliest years, and the little parlour,
with its antiquated furniture and works of art in
wool, its haunting odour of pot-pourra emanating
from the big china jar upon the mantelshelf, and
its moist warm atmosphere dimly filtered through
the drooping green and gold of the laburnum
tree, whose leaves tapped incessantly against the
lozenged panes of its barred windows, was almost
as familiar in his memory in after years as the
sitting-room at home at the farm.

Dick conferred upon its kindly and garrulous
old tenant the brevet rank of ' Aunt ' Jenny, and
loved her, telling her, in open-hearted childish
fashion, his thoughts, experiences, and secrets.
Naturally, the story of the fight with the paynim
oppressors of beauty came out in his talk soon
after its occurrence, and lost nothing in the telling.
Mrs. Jenny would have found a romance
in circumstances much less easily usable to that

end than those of the scion of one house rescuing
the daughter of a rival and inimical line, and
here was material enough for foolish fancy. She
cast a prophetic eye into the future, and saw
Dick and Julia, man and maid, reuniting their
severed houses in the bonds of love, or doubly
embittering their mutual hatred and perishing —
young and lovely victims to clannish hatred and
parental rigour — like Eomeo and Juliet.

The boy's account of the fight was given as he
sat by her side in her little pony-trap in the
cheerfully frosty morning. Dick chatted gaily as
the shaggy-backed pony trotted along the resounding
road with a clatter of hoofs and a jingle of
harness, and an occasional sneeze at the frosty
air. They passed the field of battle on the road,
and Dick pointed it out. Then, as was natural.
he turned to the family feud, and retailed all he
had heard from Ichabod, supplemented by information
from other quarters and such additions of
fancy as imaginative children and savages are

VOL. II L

sure to weave about the fabric of any story which
comes in their way to make tradition generally
the trustworthy thing it is.

Mrs. Eusker was strong on the family quarrel.
A family quarrel was a great thing in her estimation,
almost as good as a family ghost, and she
gave Dick the whole history of the incident of
the brook and of many others which had grown
out of it, among them one concerning the death
of a certain Eeddy which had tragically come to
pass a year or two before his birth. The said
Eeddy had been found one November evening
stark and cold at the corner of the parson's
spinney, with an empty gun grasped in his
stiffened hand, and a whole charge of small shot
in his breast. Crowner's quest had resulted
in a verdict of death by misadventure, and
the generally received explanation was that the
young fellow's own gun had worked the mischief
by careless handling in passing through stiff
undergrowth. But a certain ne'er-do-well Mountain,

a noted striker and tosspot of the district,
had mysteriously disappeared about that date.
and had never since come within scope of Castle
Barfield knowledge. Ugly rumours had got
afloat, vague and formless, and soon to die out of
general memory. Dick listened open-mouthed to
all this, and when the narrative was concluded,
held his peace for at least two minutes.

1 She isn't wicked, is she, Aunt Jenny ? ' he
suddenly demanded.

She ? who ? ' asked Mrs. Busker in return.

1 The little girl, Julia.'

1 Wicked ? Sakes alive, whatever is the boy
talking about ? "Wicked ? 0' course not. Shea
dear good little thing as ever lived.'

Ichabod said that all the Mountains were
wicked. But I know Joe isn't — at least, not
very. He promised me a monkey and a parrot
a green parrot, when he came back from running
away. But he didn't run away, because
father found him and took him home. His

father gave him an awful thrashing. He often
thrashes him, Joe says. Father never thrashes
me. What does his father thrash him for ? '

'Mr. Mountain's a harder man than your
father, my dear. An' I fear as Joe's a bit wild,
like his father when he was a boy, and obstinit.
Their never was a obstinate man i' this earth
than Samson Mountain, I do believe, an' Joe's
got a bit on it in him.'

She's pretty said Dick, returning with
sudden childish inconsequence to the subject
uppermost in his thoughts. ' Joe isn't. Why is
it that the girls are always prettier than the
boys ? '

I used to think it was the other way about
when I was a gell,' said Aunt Jenny, with perfect
simplicity. ' But she is pretty, that's true. But
then her mother was a likely lass, an' Samson
wasn't bad lookin', if he hadn't ha' been so fierce
an' cussid. An' to think as it should be you, of
all the lads i' Barfield, as should save a Mountain.

An' a gell, too. I suppose as you'll be a setting"
up to fall in love wf her now, like Eomeo and
Juliet ? '

1 What was that ? ' asked the boy.

1 It's a play, my dear, wrote by a clever man
as has been dead ever so many 'ears, "William
Shakespeare.'

Shakespeare ? ' said Dick. ' I know. It's a
big book on one of the shelves at home, full of
poetry. But what's Eomeo and Juliet ? '

Romeo and Juliet was two lovers, as lived a
long time ago in a place called Verona. I don't
know where it is,' she added quickly, to stave oft'
the imminent question already on the boy's lips.
Somewhere abroad, wheel Bonaparte is. Juliet's
name was Capulet, an' Borneo's was Montague, an'
the Capulet and the Montagues hated each other
so as they could never meet wi'out having' a bit of
a turn-up one with another. They was as bad
as the Beddys an' the Mountains, only i' them
daysen folks allays wore swords an' daggers, so's

when they foot they mostly killed each other.
Well, one night old Capilet given a party, an*
asked all his friends, an' everybody wore masks,
so's they didn't know half the time who they was
a-talkin' tew, as was the fashion i' them times,
an' Eomeo, he goes, just for divinest, an' he puts
on a mask tew, so as they didn't know him, else
they'd ha' killed him, sure an' certain. An' their
he sees Juliet, an' she was beautiful, an' he falls
plump in love wi' her, an' she falls in love wi'
him, an' they meets o' nights, i' the moonlight,
on the window-ledge outside her room, but
they had to meet i' secret, 'cause the two families
was like cat an' dog, an' there'd ha' been awful
coin's if they'd been found out. Well, old
Capilet — that was Juliet's feather — he finds a
husband for Juliet, a nice chap enough, a count,
like Lord Barfield, only younger an' likelier. An'
Juliet, she gets welly mad, because she wants to
marry Eomeo. And then, to mek matters fuss,
Eomeo meets one o' Juliet's relations, a young

man ' named Tybalt, as hates him like poison, an'
they foot, an' Eomeo killed him. "Well, the
Capulet was powerful wi' the king as ruled in
Verona, like Joseph used to be with Pharaoh in
the Holy Land, my dear, an' Eomeo, he has to
run away an' hide himself, else perhaps they'd ha'
hung him for killing' Tybalt, though it was Tybalt
as begun the fight, so poor Juliet's left all alone.
An' her marriage day's a-getting' near, and old
Capilet, he's stuck on her rnarryin' the count, an'
the day's been named, and everything provided
for the wedclin'. Well, Romeo takes a thought,
an' goes to a friar, a kind o' priest, as was a very
book-learned man, and asks if he can help him.
And at first he says no, he can't, an' Eomeo gets
that crazed, he's going' to kill himself, but by an'
by he thinks of a plan. He gives Juliet a bottle
</ physic stuff to send her to sleep, and make her
look as if she was dead. Then her relationship
be sure to bury her i' the family vault, an' he'll
write to Eomeo to come back to Verona i' the

night-time an' take her out o' the vault, an' goo
away quiet wi' her till things have blown over,
an' they can come back again. An' Juliet takes
the physic, an' everybody thinks her dead, her
father, an' her mother, an' her old ness, an' Paris
that's the name of the gentleman as they
wanted her to marry — an' there's such a hullabaloo
an' racket as never was. An' they buried
her i' the vault, wi' all her relations, an' the old
friar thinks as it's all a-comin'' straight. But the
letter as he'd writ to Eomeo never reaches him,
an' Eomeo hears as how Juliet's really dead, and
he buys a bottle o' poison, an' comes to Juliet's
grave i' the night-time, an' there he meets Paris,
as has come to put flowers there an' pray for
Juliet's soul, known' no better and loving' her
very dear. An' him an' Eomeo fights, and
Eomeo kills him, an' opens the vault, an' go's in,
an' their's Juliet, lying' stiff an' stark, because the
physic ain't had time to work itself off yit. An'
he kisses her, an' cries over her, and then he tees

the poison, and dies. An' just as he's done it,
Juliet wakes up, and finds him dead, and she
takes his knife, an' kills herself, poor thing, an'
that's the lend on 'em.'

The old sentimentalist's eyes were moist, and
her voice choked, as she concluded her legend.
It was the first love-story Dick had ever heard,
and in pity at the beautiful narrative, which no
clumsiness of narration could altogether rob of its
pathos, he was crying too. There is no audience
like an impressionable child, and the immortal
story of love and misfortune seemed very pitiful
to his small and tender heart.

1 Why, their ! their S Dick ! It's only a story,
my dear, wrote in a book,' said Mrs. Jenny. ' It
most likely ain't true, an' if it is, it all happened
such a time ago as it's no good a-frettin' about it.
Why, wherever did you get all them warts ? '
She took one of the hands with which Dick was
rubbing his eyes. ' You should have 'em looked
tew, they quite spile your hands. I must get

Rufus Smith to have a look at 'em. You know
who we'd again' to see, don't you ? You've
heard tell o' the Dudley Devil, Dick ? '

Yes,' said Dick. ' Ichabod goes to him for
his rheumatism.'

It's only a step away. That's his cottage,
over there. We'll get him to charm the warts away.'

A hundred yards farther on Mrs. Jenny
checked the pony, and, dismounting from the
vehicle, bade Dick tie him to an elder-shoot and
follow her. They went through a gap in a
ruinous hedge, and traversed a furzy field, at the
farther side of which stood the wizard's hut, a
wretched place of a single story, with a shuttered
window and a thatched roof full of holes and
overgrown with weeds. As they approached the
door a mighty clatter was audible within, and
Mrs. Jenny held the boy's hand in a tightened
grasp, fearful of devilry. As they stood irresolute
to advance or retreat, a big cat dashed out at the
doorway with a feline imprecation, and the wizard

appeared, revengefully waving a stick, and swearing
furiously.

1 Cuss the brute,' he said, ' the civil's in her,
sure an' sartine.'

It seemed not unlikely to the onlookers, the
cat being the wizard's property, and therefore,
by all ride and prescription, his prompter and
familiar. She was not of the received colour,
however, her fur being of a rusty red. But as
she raised her back, and spat at her master's
visitors from under her clubbed tail, she looked
demoniac enough for anything. And from the
fashion in which, her anathema once launched,
she sat down and betook herself to the rearrangement
of her ruffled coat, it might have been conjectured
that it was not purely personal to them,
but that they were attacked merely as types of
the human race, whose society she and her
master had forsworn.

1 Cuss her ! ' reiterated the wizard. : Where's
her got tew ? My soul, what's this : '

He peered with a short-sighted terror-stricken
scowl on Mrs. Jenny and her charge, as if fora
moment the fancy had crossed him that his
refractory familiar had taken their shapes. His
gray lips muttered something, and his fingers
worked oddly as he took a step or two forward,
clearly outlined in the cold winter sunshine
against the black void beyond his open door.

1 Why, Eufus, what's the matter ? ' asked Mrs.
Jenny. c Don't look like that at a body.'

It's you, mum ? ' said the necromancer. A
look of relief came into his wizened face. ' I

didn't know but what it might be ' His

voice trailed off into an indistinct murmur, and
he smeared his hand heavily across his face, and
looked at it, mistrustfully, as if he rather expected
to find something else in its place. * Cuss
her ! ' he said again, looking round for the cat.

What's she done ? ' demanded Mrs. Jenny.

Done ? Ate up all my brekfus, that's what
she's done,' rejoined the wizard. The familiar

grinned with a relish of the situation so fiendishly
human that Dick clung closer to Mrs. Busker's
hand, and devoutly wished himself back in the
trap. To his childish sense the incongruity of
one gifted with demoniac powers being helpless
to prevent the depredations of Ins own domestic
animal did not appeal. As for Mrs. Jenny, she
had piously believed in witchcraft all her life, and
was quite as insensible to the absurdity as he.

1 1 want you to look at this young gentleman's
hands,' said Mrs. Paisker. ' He's got warts that
bad. I suppose you can charm 'em away for
him?'

Appealed to on a point of his art, the wizard's
air changed altogether. He assumed an aspect
of wooden majesty.

1 Why, vis,' he said. ' I think I'm equal to
that. Step inside, mum, and bring the young
gentleman with you.'

1 Couldn't you ' Mrs. Paisker hesitatingly

began, ' couldn't you do it outside ? '

The forms and ceremonies said the necromancer,
with an increase of woodenness in his
manner, ' cannot be applied out o' doors. After
you, mum.'

He ushered them into the one room of his
hut, and the cat, with her tail floating above her
like a banner, entered too, evading a kick, and
sprang upon a rotten deal shelf, which apparently
acted as both dresser and table.

Eufus closed the ruinous door, thereby intensifying
the gloom which reigned within the place.
The floor was of simple earth, unbounded, and the
air smelt of it. Here and there a fine spear of
ghostly sunlight pierced a crack in roof or wall.
By the time their eyes had become accustomed
to the gloom they saw that Eufus, on his knees
on the floor, was scratching a circle about himself
with a scrap of a broken pot, and the indistinct
rhythmic murmur of the spell he muttered
reached their ears.

The cat, perched upon the dresser, purred as

if her internal machinery were running down to
final collapse, and her contracting and dilating
eyes borrowed infernal fires from the chance ray
of sunshine in which she sat. The brute's rusty
red head, so lit, fascinated Dick, and the mingled
rhythms of her purring and the wizard's mounted
and mounted, until to his bewildered mind the
whole world seemed filled with their murmur, and
the demoniac head seemed to dilate as he gazed
at it. Suddenly, Eufus paused in his sing-song,
and the cat's purr ceased with it, as though her
share of the charm was done.

1 Come into the ring,' said Rufus. His voice
was shaky, and if there had been light enough to
see it, his face was gray with terror of his own
hocus-pocus. The cat's head had dropped out of
the line of sunlight, and she had coiled herself
up on the dresser among a disorderly litter of
crockery ware. Dick, relieved from the fascination
of her too-visible presence, obeyed the
summons, and Rufus, seating himself upon a

broken stool, took his hand in moist and quivering
fingers, and touching the warts one by one,
recommenced his mumble. It had proceeded fora
minute or so, when a crash, which, following as
it did on the dead stillness, an earthquake could
scarce have equalled, elicited a scream from Mrs.
Jenny and brought the wizard to his knees with
a yell of terror.

My blessed ! ' he cried, with clacking jaws,
1 I've done it at last ! Get thee behind me, Satan ! '

In terror-stricken earnest he believed that
the Great Personage he had passed all his life in
trying to raise had answered to his call at last.
So, though it was unquestionably a relief to him
to find that the appalling clatter had merely been
caused by his familiar's pursuit of a mouse among
the crockery, a shade of disappointment may have
followed the discovery.

Cuss her ! ' he said, for the third time that
morning, and with additional unction. ' He'll
be the death of me some day, I know her will ! '

A SUMMER sunset filled all the sky above Castle
Barfield and its encircling fields. The sun had
disappeared, leaving behind him a broad reflected
track of glory where, here and there, a star was
faintly visible. A light wind was blowing from
the hollow which sheltered the town towards the
higher land whereon the rival houses of Eeddy
and Mountain faced each other. Below, it was
already almost night, and as the wind blew the
shadow mounted, as if the wind earned it. The
rose and gold left by the departing sun faded
down the sky, and settled at the horizon into a
broad band of deep-toned fire, which, to one
facing it in ascending from the lower ground,
seemed to bind the two houses together. Some

VOL. II M

such fancy might have been in the head of Mrs.
Jenny Busker, as she went in the warm evening
air towards the little eminence on which stood
the long low-built house of Samson Mountain,
already a-twinkle with occasional lights in the
gloom, its own bulk cast against the fast-fading
band of sunset.

Mrs. Jenny, hale and vigorous yet, and still a
widow, was older by fifteen years than on the
day when she unfolded to Dick Eeddy the story
of Borneo and Juliet. Fifteen years was a good
slice out of a lifetime, even in Castle Barfield in
the first half of the century, when time slipped
by so quietly and left so little trace to mark his
flight.

She passed the gate which opened on the
public road, and entered the Mountain domain.
The air was so still that the bubble of the
boundary brook was clearly audible a hundred
yards away, with nothing to accent it but the
slow heavy flap of a late crow, winging his reluctant

flight homewards, and save for him, sky
and earth alike seemed empty of life, and delivered
wholly to the clinging peace of evening.
So that when Mrs. Jenny came to the only clump
of trees in her line of progress between the gate
and the house the little scream of surprise with
which she found herself suddenly face to face
with an unexpected human figure was justified.

Sh-heh ! ' said the figure's owner. ' Don't
you know me, Aunt Jenny ? '

Dick ! ' said Mrs. Jenny, peering at him.
So it is. You welly frightened the life out o'
me. What brings you here, of all place in the
world ? '

Can't you guess ? ' asked Dick. He was
tall and broad-shouldered now, an admirable fulfilment
of the physical promise of his boyhood,
and far overtopped Mrs. Eusker. ' It isn't for
the first time.'

1 1 feared not,' said the old woman. ' You
was allays main venturesome.'

It will be for the last, for some time, Aunt
Jenny. I leave Castle Barfield tomorrow.'

Leave Barfield ? ' cried the old woman.
Why, Dick, wheel are ye going' ? You ain't
again' to do nothing' rash, that I do hope.'

I am going to London,' said Dick, ' and I
must see Julia before I go. You must help me.
You are going to the house now, aren't you ? '

Going to London ? ' repeated Mrs. Busker,
who had no ears for the last words after that
announcement. 'What's made you so hot foot
to go to London all of a minute like ? '

It was decided to-day. My father suspects
what is going on. I feel sure of it, though he
has never said a word about it. You know he
always meant to make a doctor of me — it was
my own choice when I was quite a little fellow,
and it has always been understood. Last month
he asked me if I was of the same mind still, and
to-day he told me that my seat is taken in the
coach from Birmingham. You know my father,

Aunt Jenny, as well as I do. He has been a
very good father to me, and I would not give
him pain or trouble for the world. I could not
refuse. Indeed, it is my last chance of ever
doing anything for myself and making a home
for Julia.'

1 My dear, they'll never hear on it, neither of
'em. Samson Mountain 'd rather see his daughter
in her coffin than married to any kin of Abel
Eeddy's. Though he loves her, too, in a kind o'
way. An' your father's just as hard ; he's only
quieter with it, that's all. They'll never consent.
Never, i' this world.'

'Then we must do without their consent,
that's all. I must see Julia to-night, and you
must help me. Tell her that I am here and
must see her. Oh, Aunt Jenny, you are surely
not going to desert us now, after helping us so
often

'I'm dubious, my dear. I hope good may
come of it, but I'm dubious. I'm doubtful if I

did right in helping yon, again your father's will,
an' Mr. Mountain's, too.'

I You won't refuse to do so little, after doing
so much,' pleaded the young man. ' Why, it was
at your house that I used to meet her, when we
were children together, and you first christened
us Eomeo and Juliet.'

A name o' bad omen, my dear. I wish I
hadn't given it to you now.'

For never was a story o' more woe,
Than this o' Juliet an' her Romeo.'

I I don't believe much in omens,' said Dick.
1 But you will tell Julia that I am here, won't
you ? It's the last time, for ever so long.'

I'll tell her,' said Mrs. Eusker. ' But don't
stay here ; goo down to the Five Ash. Mr.
Mountain's gone to Burmungem, an' he'll come
across this way when he comes back. You must
tek a bit o' care, Dick, for the gell's sake.'

1 I'll take care, dear. It's good-bye this time,

Aunt. You've been very good to me always,
and I shan't forget your kindness while I'm away.
And you'll be good to Julia, too, while — while
I'm away, won't you ? '

Mrs. Eusker's objections had never had any
heart in them, and had been merely perfunctory,
and such as she conceived her age and semi-maternal
authority compelled her to make. She
was wholly given over to Dick and Julia, and all
her simple craft was for their service. She kissed
him, and cried over him, and so they parted, he
bound for the Five Ash field, and she for the
farmhouse.

'Why, lacsaday, Jenny, whatever is the
matter ? ' asked Mrs. Mountain, when her visitor
entered her sitting-room, and gave her tearstained
cheek to her old friend's embrace. Julia,
a lithe, graceful girl, rose at the query from the
other side of the little table, and came to Mrs.
Paisker's side.

1 "Why, you're crying,' continued the elder

woman. ' What is it, my dear, as has upset you
i' this wise ?

Well, my dear,' said Mrs. Eusker, wiping her
eyes and smoothing her dress, as if her grief was
done with and put away, ' it ain't a trouble as I
expects sympathy from you in.'

Mother and daughter exchanged glances.

It must be a queer sort o' trouble, then,'
said Mrs. Mountain ; ' an' you might tell me what
it is afore you say that, Mrs. Eusker, after all
these 'ears as ween snowed each other.'

Well, if you must know, I've just sin young
Eeddy, i' the road, just outside the Five Ash.'
Julia's hand was on her shoulder as she spoke,
and she felt the soft touch tremble. ' He's a-
leaving' Barfield, again' to London, for a longtime.'


Oh, that's the matter, is it ? Well, I don't
know anything' again the young man, barren' as he
is a Eeddy. An' for the matter o' that, though
o' course a woman has no choice but to stand by

the kin as her marries into, I never found much
harm in 'em, unless it is as they're a bit stuck up.
I know as you was allays fond on him, an' I
hope the young man '11 do well. I've often said
to Samson as it was all rubbing, a-keepin' up a
old quarrel like that, as keeps two decent family
at daggers drawn. Their, their, let Julia get
you a cup o' tay, an' let's talk o' something'
cheerful.'

I'll go and send it in to you,' said Julia.
She exchanged one quick glance of intelligence
with the widow as she left the room. The old
woman had done her errand, and Julia knew
where to seek her lover. She found her hat in
the hall, and slipped out by the back way, after
directing the servant to take in the required
refreshment to Mrs. Busker. It was bright
moonlight now, and as she ran lightly across the
Five Ash field in her white summer dress, Dick,
waiting in the shelter of the hedge, saw her
plainly, and advanced to meet her.

Oh, Dick, is it true ? '

He took her in his arms and kissed her before
he answered. ' Yes, dear, it's true. I am going
to London.'

1 But why so suddenly, so soon ? '

I must, dear. It is my own choice. I am
going to study, to fit myself to take my place in
the world, and to find a home for you. Be
brave, dear. It is only for a little time.'

1 It is all so sudden.'

Yes. I had hoped to stay a little longer, to
see more of you, to get used to my happiness
before I lost it. But my father suspects, I am
sure, if he does not know, and I dared not refuse.
It hurts me to go, but what can I do ? You
know the man he is. And there is only one
thing in the world that your father would help
him to do — to separate us. I must go away and
make a home for you with my own hands ; we
can expect no help from them. If we are true
to each other we shall be happy yet. Our love

may end the ridiculous family squabble which
has lasted all these generations. But it would
be madness to speak yet.'

1 It is that which makes me so unhappy,
Dick. Why am I not like other girls ? "Why
can't you come to the farm and ask my father's
leave to court me, as other girls' sweethearts do,
and as you would like to do ? I can't help feeling
that this is wrong, meeting you in secret, and
being engaged to you against my father's will,
without his knowledge.'

1 The quarrel is not of our making, Julia.
We only suffer by it. I hope we shall bring it
to an end, and teach two honest men to live
at peace together, as they ought. Why, you're
crying.'

Her tears had been running quietly for some
minutes past, but at this she began to sob unrestrainedly.
Dick comforted her in the orthodox
fashion, and in that sweet employment almost
succeeded in forgetting his own sorrow. He

drew bright pictures of the future : youth held
the palette, and hope laid on the colour. Two
or three years of partial separation — so little —
and he would have a livelihood in his hand, and
could offer her a safe asylum from parental
tyranny, and bid his own people either to accept
the situation or renounce him, as they might
choose. He was quite heroic internally about
the whole business. He felt the promise of the
coming struggle brace his nerves, and he was
more than ready for the test. Young love is
selfish at the best, and the heroic likeness of
himself doing battle with the world of London
half obliterated the pitiful figure of the poor girl,
left at home, with nothing to fill her heart
but dreams. For him, the delight of battle ; for
her, long months of weary waiting.

It was no doubt of him, but only the rooted
longing for assurance of his love, that made her
ask,

You won't forget me, Dick, in London ? '

Forget her ! His repetition of the word, his
little laugh of loving scorn, were answer enough,
though he found others, and arguments unanswerable,
to clinch them. How could he forget the
sweetest, dearest girl that ever drew the breath
of life, the prettiest and the bravest ? She spoke
treason against herself in asking such a question.
He could no more forget her in London than
Eomeo, Juliet in Mantua. She laughed a little
at his recalling the old story, from which Mrs.
Jenny had drawn so many illustrations of the
course of their love since they were children. It
recalled the old woman to their minds.

1 1 shall write to you every week, and send
the letters under cover to her,' said Dick. ' And
you may be sure that I shall find — or make —
plenty of opportunities to rim down here from
time to time. There is a coach every day to
Birmingham.'

They had been walking slowly all this time.
It was night now, the last gleam of sunset had

faded, the stars were lustrous overhead, and a
yellow moonlight flooded the surrounding country.
A long distance off, faint but clear in the dead
hush of the summer night, they heard, but did
not mark, the beat of horses' hoofs approaching
them.

I must go, Dick said Julia. ' It is late, and
they will wonder where I am. No, let me go
now, while I have the strength.'

He took her in his arms again, and her head
dropped on his shoulder, and the tears began to
run afresh. He held her close, but in that last
moment of parting could find no word of comfort,
only dumb caresses. The hoof-beats were near
at hand now, just beyond the bend of the road.
They rounded the corner, and broke on the lovers'
ears with a loud and startling suddenness. The
girl broke away, and ran through the gate into
the field with a stifled sob. Dick turned, and
walked down the road in the direction of the
approaching horseman. The moon was at the

full, and shone broadly upon his face and
figure.

Hullo ! ' cried the rider, in gruff challenge,
and pulling his horse into Dick's path, reined in.
The young man looked up and recognised Samson
Mountain. Flight would have been as useless
as ignominious, and it had never been Dick's
way out of any difficulty.

Well ? ' he asked curtly, and stood his
ground.

1 Is that my daughter ? ' demanded Mountain,
pointing with his heavy whip after the white
figure glinting across the field. ' Spake the truth
for once, though you be a Eeddy.'

'It's a habit we have,' said Dick quietly.
His calm almost surprised himself. ' Yes.'

Mountain had always been of a heavy build,
and of late years had increased enormously in
girth and weight. But his wrath at this confirmation
of his half guess stirred him so, that
before the sound of the word had well died out

IV

on the air he had dismounted, and came at the
young man with his riding-whip nourished above
his head.

'Don't do that, sir.' Dick spoke in a low
voice, though quickly; and there was something
in his tone which brought the weapon harmlessly
to the farmer's side again. ' It is your daughter.
We love each other, and she has promised to be
my wife.'

Mountain staggered, as if the words had been
a pistol bullet or a stab, and struck furiously.
Quick as was Dick's parry, he only half saved
himself, his hat spun into the road, and the whip
whistled within an inch of his ear. He made a
step back, and stopped a second furious stroke.
The whip broke in the old man's hand, and he
flung the remaining fragment from him with a
curse.

1 1 can't strike you, sir,' said Dick. ' You're
her father.' Mountain's choking breath filled in
the pause, and Dick went on : ' You know well

enough there's not another man in England I'd
take that from.'

You're a coward, like all your tribe,' said
Mountain.

Not at all, I assure you, sir said Dick calmly.
If you like to send anybody else with that
message, I'll talk to him. Let us talk sensibly.
What harm have I ever done you ? Or my
father either ? Why should two honest families
keep up this ridiculous story, which ought to
have been buried ages back ? Why not let bygones
be bygones ? I love your daughter. I
am a young man yet, sir, with my way to make
in the world, and I am going away to London
to study. I met your daughter to-night to say
good-bye to her, and if you had not come I
should have gone away and said nothing until
I could come and claim her, with a home
worthy of her to take her to. But since you
know, I speak now. We love each other, and
intend to marry.'

VOL. II N

Oh ! ' said Mountain. He had gone all on
a sudden as cool as Dick, and nothing but his
stertorous breathing hinted of the rage which
filled him. ' That's it, is it ? Then, if you're
finished, hear me. I ain't got the gift o' the gab
as free as you, but I can mek plain my meaning',
perhaps. I'd rather see her alain' their' (he
pointed with a trembling hand at the ground
between them) ; * I'd rather lay her there, dead
afore my eyes, an' screw her in her coffin afterwards,
than you or any o' your kin should as
much as look at her, wi' my goodwill. And
now you've got your answer, Mr. Fair an' Fine.
Remember it, an' look out for yourself. For, by
the Lord ! ' he went on, with a solemn malignity
doubly terrible in a man whose passion was
ordinarily so violent, ' if ever I ketch you round
my house again, I'll put a bullet atween thy ribs
as sure as my name's Samson Mountain.'

With this, he took his horse by the bridle,
and passed through the gate, leaving the young

man to his own reflections. He took the beast
to the stable, delivered him into the care of a
servant, and made straight for the parlour, where
his wife and Mrs. Busker were seated at an early
supper.

1 You're back early, Sam,' said the former,
rising to draw an additional chair to the table.
Wilt have some tay, or shall Lisa draw you a
jug o' beer ? '

Samson returned no answer, either to this or
to Mrs. Busker's greeting.

■ Law a mussy, what ails the man ? ' asked
Mrs. Mountain, as Samson stood looking round
the room. She had never seen such an expression
on her husband's face before. The skin was
livid under its rude bronze, and his lips twitched
strangely.

Cheer's that wench of our ? ' he asked,
after a second glance round the room. Mrs.
Busker's heart jumped, and she held on tight to
the arm-pieces of her chair.

Julia ? ' said Mrs. Mountain. ' Her's about
the house, I reckon.'

Call her here said Samson ; and his wife
wondering, but not daring to question, went to
the door of the sitting-room and screamed ' Julia!'
A servant girl came running downstairs at the
call, and said that Miss Julia did not feel welland
had gone to bed.

Patch her down said Samson from the
sitting-room, and the girl, on receipt of a confirmatory
nod from Mrs. Mountain, went upstairs
again. Samson took a chair and sat with his
head bent forward and his arms folded, staring at
the paper ornaments in the grate.

1 Samson ! ' said his wife appealingly, ' don't
sheer a body i' thinning. Whatever is the matter ? '

Hold thy chat said Samson. ' There's know
soon enough and the trio sat in silence until
Julia entered the room. She was pale, and there
were traces of tears on her cheeks, and Samson,
as he glanced at her askance from under his

heavy eyebrows before he rose, saw that she was
struggling to repress some strong emotion. She
advanced to kiss him, but he repelled her — not
roughly — with his heavy hand upon her shoulder.

1 You wanted to see me, father,' she asked,
trembling.

I sent for you.'

Mrs. Eusker was in a state of pitiable excitement,
if anybody had had the leisure to notice
her.

1 Their's somewhat happened to-day as it's fit
an' right as yo' should know. I met ode Eay-
would to-day i' th' Exchange, an' he tone me
somewhat as I'd long suspected, about his son Tom.
I reckon you know what it was.'

Julia knew well enough. Tom Eaybould was
a young farmer, a year or two older than herself.
She had known him all her life, and he had been
a schoolfellow and chosen chum of her brother's.
He had shown unmistakable signs of affection for
her, but had never spoken. He was a good fellow,

according to common report, and she had a good
deal of liking and respect for him, and a little
pity, being a good girl, and no coquette.

1 1 see thee understands,' said Samson. ' I
told th' ode man as he might look on it as settled,
an' Tom 11 be here tomorrow. He's a likely
lad, an' he'll have all the Bush Farm when his
father goes, as must be afore long, i' the course
o' nature. The two farms '11 goo very well in a
ring fence. Their's no particular hurry, as I
know on, an' we'll ha' the wedding' next wik, or
the wik after.'

The girl's breast was labouring cruelly, in
spite of the hand that strove to still it.

1 Father ! ' she said. ' You don't mean it ! '

Eh ? ' said Samson. ' I generally mean what
I say, my wench. I should ha' thou as you'd ha'
known that by this time.'

He stopped there, for Julia, but for her
mother's arm, would have fallen.

You great oaf !' cried Mrs. Mountain, irritated

for once into open rebellion. ' Oh, it's like
a man, the stupid hulking' creature as they are,
to come an' frighten the life out of a poor maid
i' that style.'

Their, their ! ' said Samson, with the same
heavy and threatening tranquillity he had borne
throughout the interview. ' Tek her upstairs.'

He sat down again, and without another word
filled and lit his churchwarden, and stared through
the smoke-wreaths at the grate.

She got home and went to bed, and passed an
interminable night in tossing to and fro, and
bewailing the untoward fate of the two children.
Dawn came at last, though it had seemed as if it
never would break again, and, for the first time for
many a year, the first gleam of sunlight saw her
dressed and downstairs. She felt feverous and
ill, and having brewed for herself a huge jorum
of tansy tea, sat down over this inspiring
beverage, and tried to pull her scattered wits
together and think out some way of untangling
the skein of difficulty with which she had to deal.
The danger was pressing, and if she had been
herself the poor lovesick girl who lay a mile away,
stifling her sobs lest they should reach her
father's ears, and vainly calling on her lover's name,
she would scarcely have been more miserable.

One thing was clear. Dick must be warned,
and his journey to London postponed by some
device. He might lie hidden for a day or two
in Birmingham, and Julia be smuggled there and

secretly married. It was no time for half
measures, and whatever was done should be done
quickly and decisively. At this idea, at once
romantic and practical, Mrs. Jenny's spirits revived.

Samson '11 disown Julia, I know. Her '11
never see a penny o' his money. An' I doubt
as Abel Eeddy '11 do the same wi' Dick. He's
just as hard and bitter as th' other, only quieter
wi' it. Well, they shan't want while I'm alive,
nor after my death neither, and Dick ud make
his own way with nobody's help. I'll write to
him, and find somebody to take the letter. I
won't go myself, at this hour o' the day.'

She concocted a letter and sealed it, and putting
on her bonnet sallied out to find a messenger.
Fate was so far propitious that scarce a hundred
yards from her door she met Ichabod Bubb,
bound for his morning's work at Perry Hall
Farm. Ichabod was bent and gnarled and
twisted now, stiff in all his joints and slow of
movement, but his quaint visage bore the same

look of uncertain and rather wistful humour
which had marked it in earlier times.

1 Morning, mum he said ; with a stiff-necked
nod at Mrs. Jenny.

1 Good-morning', Mr. Bubb/ said the old lady.
Ichabod beamed at this sudden and unexpected
ceremonial of title, and straightened his back.

You'd afoot early, mum.'

• Why, yes. But it's such a beautiful morning
; it's a shame to lie abed a time like this.'

1 So many folks, so many ways o' thinking
said the ancient one ; ' not as it's a sin as I
often commits, neither, 'cos why, I don't get
the chance.'

1 I've got a bit o' business as I want done,
Mr. Bubb,' said Mrs. Busker, ' if ye don't mind
earning' a shilling.'

1 Why,' returned Ichabod, ' I don't know as
I've got any, not to say rested, objection to
making' a shilling.'

• You're going' to the farm ? ' Ichabod nodded.

Then I want you to take this note to Mr.
Eichard. But mind, you must get it to him private.
Nobody else must know. D'you understand ? '

I'm all their, missus responded Ichabod.

Then there's the note, an' there's the shilling'.
An' if you're back in two hours you shall have a
pint o' beer.' Ichabod took the note and the
shilling, and clattered off with a ludicrous show
of despatch, and the old lady returned to her
sitting-room to await the result of his message.
It came in less than the appointed time, and disappointed
her terribly. Ichabod had ascertained
that Dick had started half an hour before his
arrival at the farm for Birmingham, and would
only return tomorrow night to sleep and take
away his luggage on the following morning.

And you come to me wi' a message like
that, y' ode gone-off!' said the exasperated old
woman. ' You might ha' caught him up i' the
time as you've wasted coming' back here.'

1 Caught him up,' said Ichabod, with a glance

at his legs. ' Is, likely, like a cow might ketch
a racehorse. I'm a gay fine figure, missus, to
ketch up the best walker i' the country-side.'

Mrs. Jenny was a woman, and therefore to
offer her reason as an antidote to unreasoning
anger was merely to heap fuel on flame.

1 Ah : ' she said, reasonably enraged with the
whole masculine half of her species, ' you're like
the rest on 'em.'

Then I'm sorry for the rest on 'em,' said
Ichabod, ( whoever they may be.' Here Mrs.
Jenny shut the door upon him, leaving him in
the street, and retired to her sitting-room. But
with beer to be gained by boldness, Ichabod
was leonine in courage. He knocked, and the
summons brought the old lady-to the door again.
Ichabod spoke no word, but writhed his twisted
features into a grin which expressed at once
humorous deprecation and expectancy, and rubbed
the back of his veiny hand across his bristly
lips.

Go round to the brewus,' said Mrs. Jenny ;
you'll find the maid there. It's all you're fit
for, ye guzzle' old idiot

Ichabod retired, elate.

Her tongue's a stinger ; but, Lord bless thee,
Ichabod, her bark's a long sight worse than her
bite. An' her beer's main good.'

Mrs. Jenny, meanwhile, retired to the sitting-room,
and there sat immersed in gloom. Things
looked black for her young proteges, and fate was
against them. With that curious interest in
familiar trifles which comes with any fit of hopelessness
or despondency, she sat looking at the
furniture of the room and the pictures which
decorated the walls. Among these latter was a
work of her own hands, her masterpiece, a reproduction
in coloured wool of a German engraving
of the last scene of Borneo and Juliet. There
was a pea-green Capulet paralytically embracing
a sky-blue Montague in the foreground, with a
dissolving view of impossibly-constructed servitors

of both houses and the County Paris, with six
strongly accented bridges to his nose and a
worsted tear upon his cheek, in the background.
Under this production was worked in white,
upon a black ground, the legend which lira
Eusker mournfully repeated as she gazed on it —

For never was a story of more woe,
Than this of Juliet and her Romeo ' ;

and as she spoke the words an inspiration flashed
into her mind. She had her plan.

The new-born idea so possessed her that she
could not sit or rest. It drove her out, as the
gad-fly drove Io, to devious wanderings in the
neighbouring lanes, and as she walked and walked,
finding some little ease in the unusual and incessant
exercise, she drew nearer and nearer to
the Mountain Farm. As she paused on a little
eminence and looked towards it, the distant
church bell struck clear across the intervening
fields, proclaiming nine o'clock.

Thank the Lord said the old woman. ' I
can go now. I dussent go too early. They might
suspect.'

She made straight for the house, and found
Mrs. Mountain alone. Samson was afield, and
in answer to Mrs. Busker's inquiries regarding
Julia, Mrs. Mountain tearfully informed her that
the poor girl was too ill to come downstairs, and
had not eaten a crumb of the tempting breakfast
prepared and sent to her room for her. Mrs.
Mountain was voluble in condemnation of her
husband's lack of wit in his announcement of
the matrimonial scheme he had formed for the
girl, and Mrs. Jenny was fluent and honest in
sympathy. Might she see the girl ? Julia was
fond of her, and her counsels might bring some
comfort. Mrs. Mountain yielded a ready assent,
and the old lady went up to the girl's room, and
entering on the languid summons which followed
her knock, saw Julia seated at the window, listless,
dejected, and tearful. The tears flowed even

more freely at the sight of her, and the girl
sobbed on her old friend's breast in full abandonment
to the first great grief of her life.

1 My dear,' said Mrs. Jenny, when this gush
of sorrow was over, ' take a bit o' heart. Things
is rarely as bad as they seem ; an' there's help
at hand always if we only know where to look
for it.'

There was more meaning, to Julia's thinking,
in the tone in which this commonplace
condolence was delivered than in the words
themselves. Mrs. Kusker's manner was big
with mystery.

Now, my darling', I know you'd a brave gal.
and can act according' when there's raison for it.
I've got a plan as '11 save you yet, if only you've
got the courage.'

Julia's clasped hands and eager look encouraged
her to proceed.

My dear, you remember Romeo and Juliet ?
You remember how Juliet got the sleeping' draught

YOL. II o

an' took it ? ' Julia's look was one of wonder,
pure and simple, now. ' That's my plan, my
dear, an' the Dudley Devil can do it for us, if
only you'll ha' the courage to tek it. Not as I
mean as you need be buried afore Dick comes
to you We shouldn't go as far as that. But
I'll get the stuff, an' it'll send you to sleep, an'
they'll think as you're dead, an' then I'll tell 'em
how you an' Dick loved each other so's you
couldn't bear to part wi' him, an' the fear of it's
killed you. That'll soften their hard hearts, my
dear. Old Eeddy knows all about it — that's
why he's sending' Dick away to London, an' I'll
get him fetched back to see the last o' you, an'
I'll mek your father an' his father shake hands,
an' then you'll come to, an' after that what can
they do but marry you to Dick, an' forget all
that rubbing about the brook, an' live in peace
together, as decent folk should do. 5

Julia's reception of this brilliant scheme,
which Mrs. Eusker developed with a volubility

which left no opportunity for detailed objection,
was to fall back in her chair and begin to cry
anew at the sheer hopeless absurdity of it.

What's the matter wi' the wench ? ' demanded
Mrs. Eusker, almost sternly. ' Come, come,' she
continued, her brief anger fading at the sight of
Julia's distress, ' have a bit o' spirit. Now, will
you try it ? Spake the word, an' I'll goo to the
Devil this minute.'

This wholesale self-abandonment in the cause
of love produced no effect on Julia, except to
frighten her. Mrs. Eusker argued and reasoned,
but finding her fears too obdurate to be moved
by any such means, left the house in dudgeon,
whereat poor Julia only cried the more. But
Mrs. Eusker's confidence in her plan was unshaken,
and her persistency unchecked. She
would save the silly girl against her will, since it
must be so, and half an hour after she had crossed
the Mountain threshold she was in her trap, en
route for the dwelling of the wizard.

She found that celebrity alone, and opened
fire on him at once.

Eufus, I want thy help, an' I'm willing' to pay
fur it.' The necromancer's fishy eye brightened.
Things were going poorly with him, the rising
generation followed newer lights evident in his
earlier days, and his visitors were mostly of Mrs.
Busker's age, and were getting fewer day by day.

My skill's at your service, ma'am, such as it
is he answered, with gravity.

' I want somewhat as 'd send a body to sleep —
mek 'em sleep for a long time, wi'out hurting' 'em.
Can you do it ? '

Why, yis ; I could do that much, I think.'
His tone and manner intimated vaguely how
much more he could have done, and his disappointment
at the facility of his task. ' But,'
he added prudently, ' it's a job as ain't s' easy as
you might fancy.'

Mrs. Kusker laid a sovereign on the table.

Wilt do it for that ? ' she asked.

The wizard stole a look at her. She was
obviously very much in earnest.

The ingredients,' he said, ' is hard to find,
and harder to mix in doo proportions.'

1 1 must have it now, and at once,' said Mrs.
Rusker.

That,' said Rufus, ' ain't possible.' Mrs.
Jenny laid a second piece of gold beside the first,
It's a dangerous bisness, missus,' he went on.
Their's newfangled laws about. 'Twas only last
wik as that young upstart, Doctor Hodges, comes
an' threatens me with persecution as a rogue an'
vagabond, a-obtainin' money under false sentences
for practising' my lawful an' necessary art. Why,
it ain't so long since I cured his mother o' the
rheumatiz, as is more nor he can dew, wi' all
his drugs an' the pestle an' mortar o'er his door.'

1 You ought to know as you're safe wi' me,
Rufus,' said Mrs. Rusker. ' Who should I tell ?
Why, I should tell o' myself tew, at that rate ;
an' is that likely ? '

It's dangerous, missus repeated the wizard.

c Well, if yo' won't, I must try them as wull,'
said Mrs. Jenny, rising and taking up the
coins.

I didn't say as I wouldn't,' returned Rufus.
Their's no call to be so uppish. But if I tek a
chance like that I expect to be paid for it.'

1 Two pound ud mek it with your while to do
more than that.'

I'll dew it,' said the wizard. f Give us the
money ? '

'Cheer's the stuff?'

Why, it ain't made yet. D'you think as I
can perjure a precious essence like that all of a
minute ? '

Then mek it, an' I'll gie you the money.'

1 Gi' me a pound in advance, an' I'll bring it
to you.' And on that understanding the bargain
was made, and the time fixed for the delivery of
the potion. The intervening time was filled in
by the astute wizard journeying to a neighbouring

town and procuring from a chemist a sleeping
draught, which he paid for out of Mrs.
Busker's sovereign. He turned up at Laburnum
Cottage at the stipulated hour, handed over the
draught (having previously washed off the chemist's
label), received his second sovereign, and departed.
Mrs. Rusker, with the fateful bottle in the
bosom of her dress, betook herself again to
Mountain Farm. Her unfeigned interest in the
patient, and the intimacy she had so long enjoyed
with the whole family, made the house almost as
free to her as was her own, and when she took
possession of Julia in the capacity of nurse she
was made welcome, and the poor girl's other
attendants hoped much from her ministration.
Julia was undoubtedly very ill, so ill that even
Samson Mountain forbore to force her to descend
to the parlour in which Mr. Tom Eaybould
nervously awaited her coming, and where, on
Samson's return from his daughter's chamber, the
pair sat and drank their beer together in miserable

silence, broken by spasmodic attempts at
conversation regarding crops and politics. The
doctor had been called in, and, knowing nothing
of the grief which was the poor girl's only ailment,
had been too puzzled by the symptoms of
her malady to be of any great service. She was
feverish, excited, with a furred tongue and a hot
skin. He had prescribed a mild tonic and departed.
Mrs. Jenny, intent on the execution of
her plan, gained solitary charge of her patient by
telling Mrs. Mountain that her attendance on
her daughter had already told upon her, and
advising a few hours' rest.

1 1 don't feel very well,' Mrs. Mountain confessed.
' Not a wink o' sleep have I had ever
since Samson came home last night. Nor him
neither, for the matter o' that, though he tried to
cesare me by snoring', whenever I spoke to him ;
an' as for any sympathy — well, you know him
aforetime, Jenny — I might as well talk to that
their poker.'

Then Jenny was fluent in condolence, and at
last got the old lady out of the room.

When did you take your medicine last, my
dear ? ' she asked the patient. ' Ain't it time as
you had another drop ? '

It doesn't do me any good,' said the patient
fretfully. She knew better herself what was
wrong with her than anybody else could guess,
and only longed passionately to be alone and
free to think and cry over her lost love and
broken hopes.

1 Why, my dear, you've only took one dose yit,'
said Machiavel. ■ You must give it time. I'll
pour you out another.' Her back was towards the
patient as she clattered about among the glasses
on the table with a shaking hand. She poured
out the wizard's potion, the phial clinking against
the edge of the glass like a Castanet, and her
heart beating so that she almost feared Julia
would hear it. The girl at first pettishly refused
the draught, but Mrs. Jenny, in her guilty

agitation, made short work of her objections, and
poured it down her throat almost by main
force.

Maids must do as their elders bid 'em she
said, as she returned the glass to its place.

It doesn't taste the same,' moaned the
patient.

You're like all th' other sick folk I ever
nursed. As full o' fancies as you can stick,' said
Mrs. Jenny. ' Lie quiet, and try an' go to
sleep.'

The girl lay silent, and Mrs. Jenny, more
than half wishing the whole business had never
been begun, sat and listened to her breathing.
She stirred and sighed once or twice, but after
a while lay so utterly still that the old lady
ventured to approach the bed. Julia's face was
almost as white as her pillow, and her breath was
so light that it hardly stirred the coverlet above
her bosom.

It's a-workin,' said Mrs. Eusker.

Mrs. Jenny's simple faith in the talents of Eufus
Smith underwent a severe trial during the ensuing
night. She had left Julia still sleeping, and
the memory of the last glance she had bestowed
upon the white face in the light of the carefully-shaded
candle haunted her all night, and roused
a foreboding too dismal to be expressed, or even
formulated in definite thought. The matchmaker
lay and trembled all night at that terrible
idea, and again the pale-faced dawn visited a
sleepless pillow, and found her haggard with
anxiety and lack of sleep. Juliet's query to the
Friar had been, ' What if the potion should not
work ? ' but Mrs. Jenny's terrified inquiry of her
own soul was, ' What if it had worked too well ?

What if it had killed Julia in very deed ? It
was too horrible to happen, Mrs. Jenny said to
herself. Too horrible to think of. But, if it had
happened, she would have nothing else to think
of all her life, and the fancy drove her nearly
mad.

She was dressed and afoot even earlier than
on the preceding morning. She crept out and
encircled the Mountain Farm in a radius of a
mile or thereabouts, looking anxiously towards
it at every step, as if its silent walls might
speak comfort or confirm her fears, even at that
distance. The house looked peaceful enough
amid its surrounding trees under the tranquilly
broadening light of dawn, but Mrs. Eusker knew
how ghastly white the face of the poor child she
loved as her own might look in that roseate glow.
Presently a thin line of smoke curled from a
chimney on the noiseless air. The farm was
waking to its daily round of life. A burly figure
on horseback came towards her as she stood on a

little eminence. She waited long enough to
identify Samson Mountain, and hid among the
ferns and bushes until the horse's hoof-beats had
clattered swiftly by on the stony road below her,
and faded in the distance.

Time crept on, slow but inexorable. She
longed, as she had never longed before for anything,
for the courage to go to the farmhouse and
ask tidings of Julia. But her fear was greater
than her longing, and she roamed at random in a
circle, never losing sight of the house, but not
daring to approach it or be seen from its windows.
She dreaded what might be the news to
greet her there. She feared her own face, with
its haggard lines of sleeplessness and anxious
watching. At last, from the very depths of her
misery, she plucked the heart of despairing hope,
and made for the farm. The farm labourers and
country folk she met stared after her. Even
their bovine understandings were troubled by her
scared face. She scarcely saw them, or anything

but the farmhouse, which drew her now with an
influence as strong as its repulsion had been an
hour ago. She entered the house by the back
door, and made straight for the sitting-room.
Mrs. Mountain was there, arranging a tray, on
which were tea and jam and other homely
luxuries. She wore her ordinary look of placid
contentment, and at the sight of her quiet face
Mrs. Eusker dropped panting, with a vague un-formulated
feeling of relief, into a chair.

Sakes alive ! Whatever is the matter ? '
demanded Mrs. Mountain.

Julia ! ' panted the visitor. ' How's Julia ? '
Why,' said Mrs. Mountain, ' how should her be ? '
f Is she awake yet ? ' asked Mrs. Jenny, more
calmly.

No. Her was sleeping' when I seed her, just
for a minute, a hour ago. I'm just going' upstairs
wi' some breakfast for her. Well, I declare, yo
look as pale as a ghost. What's the matter with
you?'

Oh, I've passed a miserable night said
Mrs. Jenny, in unconscious quotation from her
favourite poet. ' I couldn't sleep a-thinking o'
Julia

Well, then, you do look poorly,' said her
hostess, with all her motherly heart warmed by
this solicitude for her daughter. 'Why, their's
no cause to fret i' that way. To be sure, Samson
might ha' snowed better than to blunder such a
thing as that right out, but, then, he's a man,
and that'd account for almost anything. Married
life might teach 'em better, you'd think, and yet
after nigh on forty year on it he knows no more
about women folk than any bachelor i' Barfield.
Their, tek your bonnet off, an' I'll gi' ye a cup o'
tay, an' then you can goo upstairs wi' me and seethe
wench.'

Mrs. Jenny gratefully accepted the preferred
tea, and, having drunk it, much to her inward
refreshment, accompanied Mrs. Mountain upstairs.
As the latter had said, the girl was sleeping still,

and Mrs. Rusker saw that her position had not
changed by a hair's breadth. She lay like a
carven statue, her face marble white in the clear
morning light.

■ I'm almost doubtful about waken' her,' said
her mother. ' Their's no doubt as Samson given
her a shock, an' sleep's good for her. But
her's had welly fifteen hours of it now, if she's
been asleep all the time. Julia, my love,'
she said softly, almost in the sleeper's ear.
My sakes, how pale her is. Jenny ! come
here ! '

They both bent above her. Mrs. Rusker's
heart was beating like a muffled drum, and
seemed, to her own ears, to fill the house
with its pulsation.

Julia ! ' said Mrs. Mountain again, in a louder
voice, and shook the girl with a tremulous hand,
Julia ! '

The white eyelids did not even stir.

My blessed ! Julia ! Don't sheer a body i'

this way ! ' She shook the girl again. ' Jenny !
whatever's come to the silly wench ? '

Mrs. Jenny was more frightened, and with
better reason, than her companion. Julia's
marble pallor, and the awful stillness of her form
the keenest glance could not detect a quiver
in the face or a heave of the bosom — almost
stilled that exigent pulse within her own breast
with a sudden anguish of despair.

1 Oh, Jenny, she's a-dyin' ! '

Mrs. Mountain's scream rang through the
house, and startled every soul within it, except
that marble figure on the bed. Hurried steps
came up the stairs, the heavy tread of a man, the
light patter of women's feet, and the room filled
as if by magic.

Fetch a doctor,' screamed Mrs. Jenny ;
Julia's a-dyin' ! '

Samson Mountain stood for one moment with
his hands aloft and his eyes glaring at his
daughter. Then he dropped with a sobbing groan

VOL. II p

into a chair, with his head in his hands. There
was a general scream from the women. One,
more serviceable than the rest, called from the
window to a gaping yokel below in the yard, and
bade him ride for help. Her face and voice froze
him for a moment, but he caught the words ' Miss
Julia and two minutes after he was astride a
broad-backed plough-horse, making for the distant
village.

Samson Mountain sat with his face hidden
and spoke no word ; at the sight of him his
wife's face had turned to sudden rage, and she
stood over him like a ruffled hen, and clacked
commination of masculine imbecility, intermixed
with wild plaints for her child. Julia slept
through the tumult as she had slept through the
calm, and Mrs. Jenny, kneeling beside her with
her face in the bedclothes, moaned love and penitent
despair. Samson raised his head at last, and
looked with a dazed stare first at his daughter
and then at his wife, and left the room without a

word, pursued by a hailstorm of reproach. He
went into the yard and pottered aimlessly about,
looking old and broken on a sudden. The sound
of horse's hoofs roused him ; it was the rustic
messenger returning.

Where's the doctor ? ' demanded Samson.

1 Gone to Heydon Hey. What am I to
dew ? '

Follow him an' fetch him back. Hast not
gumption enough to know that ? ' asked Samson
wearily. The man started again, and Samson
began once more his purposeless wanderings
about the yard. He had no sense of time or
place, only a leaden weight on heart and limb,
which in all his life he had never known before.
He leaned his elbows on the fence of the fold
yard, and became conscious of a running figure
which neared him rapidly. He watched it
stupidly, and it was within twenty yards of him
before he recognised it. Dick Eeddy, dust and
mud to the collar, hatless, and panting.

Julia ! ' he gasped. ' Tell me, is it true ? '

1 Julia's dying said Samson. ' My God ! ' he
cried, with sudden passion, as if his own voice
had unlocked the sealed fountain of his grief,
my little gell's a-dyin' ! '

Mr. Mountain,' said Dick, ' I love her, you
know I love her. Let me see her.' His
voice, broken with fatigue and emotion, his
streaming eyes, his outstretched hands, all
pleaded with his words.

It's all one who sees her now,' said Samson,
and leaned his elbows on the fence again. Dick
took the despairing speech for a permission, and
entered the house. At the bottom of the stairs,
in the otherwise deserted hall, he met Mrs.
Jenny, a very moving statue of terror.

Dick,' she said, clutching the young man by
the arm, ' I can't bear it any longer. Come inhere
wi' me.' She pulled him into a side room,
and sitting down, abandoned herself to weeping,
wringing her hands, and moaning.

1 can't bear it any longer,' she repeated.
I must tell somebody, an' I'll tell you. It's all
my wicked cruel fault.'

The old woman was so crazed with her secret
that she would have spoken in the shadow of
the gibbet. Smilingly and incoherently, with
many breaks for tears and protestations and self-accusation,
she told her story.

1 I've killed her, Dick. But it was for your
sake and hers as I done it. I reckon they'll
hang me, an' it'll serve me right.' She besought
him not to betray her, and, in the same breath,
announced her intention to surrender herself
at once to the parish constable ; and, indeed,
between fear and remorse and sorrow for the
hopeless love she had striven to befriend, was
nearly mad. Dick heard her with such amazement
as may be best imagined, and suddenly,
with a cry that rang in her ears for many a long
day afterwards, ran from her and scaled the stairs
to Julia's room, led thither by the sound of Mrs.

Mountain's weeping. The old woman stared, as
well she might, at the intrusion, with a wonder
which for a moment conquered sorrow. He went
straight to the bed, and leaned over the stark
figure upon it.

She's not dead yet,' he said, more to himself
than to the grief stricken mother. Mrs.
Mountain heard the words, and clutched his
arm. He turned to her. 'Trust me,' he said,
'and I'll save her.' The wild hope in the
mother's eyes was terrible to see. ' I love
her,' said Dick. ' You will trust me ? Do
as I bid you, and you shall have Julia back
in an hour.'

Samson Mountain meanwhile wandered in the
same purposeless fashion about the farm, and
held dumb converse with himself. He was a
rough man, something of a brute — a good deal of
an animal — but animals have their affections,
and he loved Julia as well as it was in his nature

to love anything. It was ingrained in him by
nature and by years of unquestioned domination
to bully and browbeat all defenceless people ; but
Julia, the most defenceless of his surroundings,
had been treated always with a lighter hand.
Childlike, she had taken advantage of her immunity
in many little ways, and though Samson
had never forborne to bluster at her girlish insubordination,
he rather liked it than not, and
relished his daughter's independence and spirit.
Julia was the only creature in the household who
dared to hold her own against him. He was
proud of her beauty and what he called her
turning,' and, more or less grumblingly, petted
her a good deal, and would have spoiled her had
she been of spoilable material. But till this
heavy blow fell he had never sounded the depths
of his own affection for her. The suddenness of
the blow stunned and bewildered him. He
remembered his words to Dick during their
stormy interview in the road, when he had said

that he would rather see Julia dead than married
to him. Had Providence taken him at his word ?
He did not say it, he did not even think it consciously,
but he would have submitted to almost
any conceivable indignity at the hands of Abel
Eeddy himself, to have felt his daughter's arms
about his neck again. Little incidents of Julia's
past life were fresh and vivid in his memory. He
had forgotten many of them, years ago, but they
sprang up in his mind now, like things of yesterday.

He had wandered back to the front of the
house, and sat upon the rustic bench beside the
porch, with his elbows propped upon his knees,
and his eyes hidden in his shaking hands, when a
voice fell on his ear.

Neighbour ! '

He raised his head. Abel Eeddy stood before
him. With something of the old instinct of
hatred he had believed to be unconquerable he
rose and straightened himself before the hereditary
enemy.

'Neighbour said Neddy again. The word
-was pacific, but Mountain's blurred eyes, dim
with pain and dazzled by the sunlight, could not
see the pity in his old enemy's face, and he
waited doggedly. ' It's come to my ears as you're
i' sore trouble. So am I. Your trouble's mine,
though not so great for me as it is for you. I
was wi' Dick when he heard o' your daughter's
danger, an' what I'd suspected a long time I
know now to be the truth. I did my best to
keep 'em apart — it was that as Dick was
going to London for. It seemed to behove me
to come to you and offer you my hand i'
your affliction. I take shame to myself
that I didn't mek an effort to end our
quarrel long ago. "We're getting' on in life, Mr.
Mountain, and we've got th' excuse o' hotblood
no longer.'

Therewith he held out his hand, and Samson,
with hanging head, took it with a growl,
which might have been anathema or blessing.

And as the lifelong enemies stood so
linked, a window was suddenly opened above,
and Mrs. Mountain's voice screamed to her
husband,

Samson ! Hers alive ! Her's awake ! '
Both men looked up, and beheld an unexpected
picture framed by the open window, Dick
violently embraced by Mrs. Mountain, and
submitting to the furious assault with obvious
good-will.

'When the liquor's out, why clink the 
? ' The story of Julia and her Romeo,
like all other stories, had found its end, and
merged a little later into the history of
Mr. and Mrs. Eichard Eedcly. The family
feud was buried, and Samson and Abel made
very passable grandfathers and dwelt in
peace one with another. Dick never told
a living soul, not even Julia herself, of
the stratagem by which Mrs. Jenny had

succeeded in uniting them, and Mrs. Jenny, by
complete reticence on the subject, disproved the
time - worn calumny which declares woman's
inability to keep a secret.

THE END

Printed by R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh.

■11 „

3 0112 052944631
