<^:^'^:,t;j

s^Hi

■1

m

:^.

1^

ll E) RAR.Y

OF THE

University

or ILLINOIS




V.I

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana:Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/Jieartsnovel01murr

Each in Three Volumes.

HEART AND SCIENCE. By Wilkie Collins.
THE CAPTAINS' ROOM. By Walter Besant.
DUST. By Julian Hawthorne.
THE GOLDEN SHAFT. By Charles Gibbon.
OF HIGH DEGREE. By Charles Gibbon.
GIDEON FLEYCE. By Henry W. Lucy.
REGIMENTAL LEGENDS. By J. S. Winter.
WOMEN ARE STRANGE. By F. W. Robinson.
THE HANDS OF JUSTICE. By F. W. Robinson.
Self-condemned. By Mrs. Alfred Hunt.

PORT SALVATION ; or, The Evangelist. By
Alphonse Daudet. Translated by C. H. Meltzer. 2 vols,
post 8vo.

CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

A NOVEL

BY

DAVID CHRISTIE MURRAY

AUTHOR OF
Joseph COAT ' * A LIFE's ATONEMENT ' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[All rights reserved]

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

^

o

(^

TO

THE COUSINHOOD OF THE OASIS

IN MEMORY OF MANY HAPPY TIMES
AND MANY ACTS OF FRIENDSHIP



A FOX who had lost his tail set forth before his
fellows the advantages he had accidentally discovered,
and advised that the fox family should
go tailless. It is not recorded that he made
converts.

An American writer of fiction has offered
to his fellow craftsmen and the world his
opinion that * all the stories have been told
If this gentleman cannot invent a story, it is
probable enough that the mental attitude he
chooses to take is something of a comfort to
him. But his compeers are not Hkely to accept
the method he offers.

VOL. I. a

In one way the statement that ' all the
stories have been told ' is a feeble truism. In
another it is a silly falsehood. It is just as
obviously true on the one hand, and just as
obviously foolish on the other, at this hour, as
it was before the foundation-stone of English
literature was laid.

English fiction, even in this day of small
things, scarcely needs to be defended against
the complacent insolences of this writer, whose
literary example will only be followed by those
who are confronted with a Hobson's choice.
We are rather at a barren epoch now, and
readers are compelled to endure a good deal of
commonplace. Our one great living writer
is old and seems inclined to rest upon his
laurels, but there are new men coming who
tv^ll bring new powers, and will even, in the

teeth of our American friend, invent new
stories. There are some of us ahead at work
who are quite resolved that when we can no
longer create a story we will cease to write.

After that bright day which saw Thackeray
and Dickens and Eliot and Reade and Lytton
all shining together, we endure a natural night
of comparative dulness. Yet the reading
public may forgive an English writer of fiction
(whose claims are small but who loves his craft
with all his heart) if he refuses to accept without
protest the critical conclusions which affirm
that the craft is dead. Those conclusions have
been discussed with absurd gravity by people
who ought to have known better than to accept
them seriously. If a new departure in fiction
is to be made at all, let it lead us to the
sovereign passions which are immortal in man,

and not to the frivolous speculations in science
and theology and human nature which are only
the mental fashion of an hour. Paint the age
by all means, and paint it truly, but do not
appraise yourself as an artist whilst you can
give us nothing but photographs. And if you
are to be a fictionist at all, make up your mind
at once that invention is a faculty essential to
the pursuit of this most difficult of the arts.

D. C. M.

CHAPTEE I.

A YOUNG man attired in the height of the
fashion of 1870 was no very strange figure in
the Strand on any evening of that year ; and
Tom Carroll, though splendidly bedizened,
excited no unusual admiration or regard. A
handsome young Briton, with a gay, honest
face and friendly eyes — at first sight a likeable
lad — he was pleasant enough to look at, ashe
walked, head well up and eyes smiling,
prosperous and contented with the world, and
evidently disposed to be on kindly terra withall
men. It was in the dusk of a summer
VOL. I. B

evening, and the spire of St. Clements' Danes
was backed by a celestial golden fleece, which
no Londoner regarded. Corners and by-places
were beginning to be filled with shadows ; and
the street gas-lamps and the lights in the shop-windows
had a sort of twilight brightness. At
such times you may walk about in a shabby
suit of clothes, if you will ; and Tom Carroll,
running: full against Antonio Baretti, an old
acquaintance of his, beheld at first no change
in him.

This Antonio Baretti was an Italian and au
artist, and only a little while ago he had begun
to be a person of some note. Even if he chose
to go shabby, that might be one of the affectations
of successful genius. But Baretti was
not yet so eminently successful that he could
afford to cut a man like Tom Carroll, whose
social position was indisputable, whose pockets
were full of money, and whose life was spent
in the pursuit of all the arts at once, and in

companionship ^vith wealthy and titled people,
who relied upon his judgment in the matter
of plays, pictures, and music. For Tom was a
dilettante of the most agreeable and popular
type, and a i^evsona grata in all manner of high
places. It was more than a little odd, therefore,
that Baretti should make an evident effort
to avoid him ; and it was all the more singular
because the two youngsters had been rather
enthusiastic than otherwise over each other's
achievements. They were good fellows, both,
into the bargain.

Wliy, Baretti,' said Tom, stretching forth
a hand and laying hold of him by the lappet of
the coat, ' won't you speak to a fellow ? '

'I — I beg your pardon,' said the little

Italian ; ' I was in a hurry and did not '

His voice trailed away, and he left the sentence
unfinished.

You're not well,' said the young Englishman,
reaching out a second hand and laying it
bon

the other shoulder. The artist, with an
outward gesture of both hands, seemed at once
to deprecate inquiry and to indicate his own
condition. The velvet coat was threadbare and
crumpled. The little man's linen was unpleasantly
yellow and much disarranged. His
face was pallid, and his chin and cheeks were
stubbly. 'You re not well, Baretti. AVhat's the
matter ? '

I am not well of late,' said the shabby
artist ; ' but how are you ? And how are all the
little people — the opera, and the sonata, and the
gavotte? And how is the landscapes Well?*

Come and dine somewhere,' returned Tom.
The other repeated that outward gesture of the
hands. ' Come and dine. I want to have a
talk with you. Where have you been hiding
yourself? '

'I have not been in hiding,' said Baretti,
with an undeceive pretence of gaiety. Tom
Carroll, with a hand on each of the little

man's shoulders, looked him up and down. A
button was missing from the shabby velvet
jacket, and the loose threads from which it
had escaped hung down untidily. The patent
father boots were cracked and broken.

Tell me the truth,' said Tom, rocking him
lightly to and fro. ' Come home with me to
my chambers, and tell me the truth about
yourself.'

Baretti blushed fiercely, and then turned
white. His lips began to tremble, and when
he stole a look at his companion there was a
gleam of tears in his black Italian eyes.

I will go with you,' he said huskily, * and
I will tell you everything.*

Very well,' said Tom, feigning a somewhat
rollicking tone. ' Come along.*

He took Baretti's arm and they walked
westward together, not saying much by the
way. The Italian was thankful for the
gathering darkness, being conscious that his

companion's splendour made his own dismal
aspect far more noticeable than before. The
young Englishman was in his glory, for here
was genius out at elbows and altogether do'.vn
upon its luck, and he the happy deliverer
of it, and the man appointed by Fate to set
it on its feet again and establish its goings.
There was no better-hearted youngster in
London than Tom Carroll ; and if he exulted a
little at the chance of doing such a service,
he was none the less sorry for the other's misfortunes,
whatever they might turn out to be.
His heart warmed over Baretti as they walked
along together, and he felt more friendly to
him than he had ever done before. To be
five-ands twenty, and to have a good heart, and
a full purse, and a friend in need of you — is
there a better way to happiness ?

When the pair came to No. 20, Montague
Gardens, Tom Carroll admitted himself by a
latch-key, and led the way upstairs into a

comfortably furnished apartment, where shaded
lamps and handsome curtains gave things a
well-to-do and homelike look.

Sit down, Baretti,' said Tom, pushing the
other gently by the shoulders. Baretti' s lips
were trembling more and more, and his eyes
were so dim that he dared not raise them
to Tom's face. ' So bad as that, old chap ? '
said the youngster gently.

Suddenly, to Carroll's terror and amazement,
the little man wrenched himself free,
and throwing himself upon his knees beside an
arm-chair, burst into hysteric tears and sobs.
The Englishman stood awkwardly in the middle
of the room, not knowing what to do or say in
such a case, and, therefore — being wise without
knowing it — doing and saying nothing. Ina
while Baretti composed himself, and, still
kneeling there, began to wipe his eyes with a
woful handkerchief. The host recovered himself
a little also, and bustled about noisily in

the next room, lighting candles on the mantelshelf
and dressing-table.

Here, I say, Baretti,' he called, when the
sobs had all ceased, ' you'll want a wash before
dinner. I'm going down to order dinner now,
and if you want anything, I've put out a lot of
things on the bed.'

Then he withdrew by another door, and
whistled ostentatiously on the landing to show
that he was outside. This young man was a
Briton, though an artist, and tears would
have seemed a shame to him in almost any
circumstances. When Baretti had first broken
out crying, Tom would have been glad for the
floor to open, and he suffered acutely from a
reflex shame. Half an hour had gone by
before he returned to the room, and then
Baretti was standing before the fireplace, not
altogether at his ease, but clean and clean-shaven,
and in white linen, and looking vastly
improved all over. In these altered circumstances

hu Alas a Handsome little man. His
eyes were full of feeling and intelligence, and
as beautifully soft and bright as a dog's ; his
coal-black hair tumbled picturesquely about
his head in handsome, disorderly profusion ;
his hands were white and shapely ; his figure
was well set, and his face well-featured and
attractive.

Dinner 's coming up in a minute, Baretti,*
said Tom, for the mere sake of saying something.


Carroll,' said the artist, stretching out both
hands to him.

What is it ? ' asked Tom, taking them in
his own. ' You're in trouble of some sort.
Tell me what it is. If I can help you, I'll doit.
Now, what is it ? '

A tap at the door announced the advent of
the maid, and the young Englishman dropped
his friend's hands in some embarrassment.

You shall tell me after dinner,' he said,

when the girl had retired ; ' she will be interrupting
us every minute until then.

The Italian assenting, the two sat down in
silence. Dinner was served, and the guest
attacked his soup like a man who meant
business ; but he pushed the fish away scarce
tasted, and recoiled from the tempting cutlet
which followed.

No appetite ? ' said Tom.

Too much,' returned Baretti, with a poor
attempt at a laugh. Tom nodded gravely,
with a sympathetic glance at his guest, and
on the girl's next appearance bade her clear
away.

Now, what is it ? ' asked the Englishman,
when they were secure against further interruption.
The manner of the question was
engaging, and expressive of a hearty wish to
be of service. ' What is it ? Tell me as
much as } ou can, and let us see what we can
do. What is it ? '

I am broken,' said Baretti, with a tremulous
lip — ' absolutely and completely broken —
without a roof — without a shilling — a lost
man!'

Without a roof ? ' the other asked, in
amazed pity.

I have lain upon the benches in St. James's
Park these four nights,' the little Italian
answered. ' I have eaten nothing until now
for four days.'

Tom, with a great show of righteous wrath,
began to walk up and down the room, and to
upbraid his companion, using much strong
language, with a view to the disguise of his
own emotion, after the British fashion.

You thundering little idiot ! Hang it all,
Baretti ! Not to tell me ! You knew where I
lived all the time. I take it unkindly of you
I take it infernally ill of you, Baretti ! '

I was broken,' urged the little artist in
extenuation. ' I did not know what to do.'

Then, by George, sir cried Tom, ' you
ought to have known ! Here have I been
going about just as jolly as ever, and I feel
like a criminal now I know about it. You
know very well, Baretti,' with a mightily
injured look, ' that. I have more money than I
know what to do with. You know very well
that you had only to ask me to have whatever
you stood in need of. And, by gad!
instead of coming up like a friend, and giving
me the pleasure of helping you, you slink off
and starve in St. James's Park. I tell you what
it is, Baretti, I think it was unfriendly —
confoundedly unfriendly ! '

'I beg your pardon,' said Baretti, in
quaint contrition.

Tell me all about it,' Tom returned, being
in a condition to trust himself by this time.
That is — tell me what you can ; and what I
can I'll do.'

I would have come to you rather than to

anybody,' said the little Italian, with out-reaching
hands and moist eyes ; ' but I was
broken at heart, and I did not care — no ; not
for anything.'

Tell me,' said Tom.

Did you know the Count Parabola ? '
asked Baretti, turning upon his host with
sudden passion.

That hook-nosed, green-skinned ruffian,
with the black moustache and the bald head ? '
demanded Tom. ' I knew him as well as I
wanted to.'

We thought him honourable and wealthy,*
cried Baretti, beginning his story with a fiery
gesture of disdain.

I didn't,' interjected Carroll, drily. 'What
about him? '

'Iv.ill tell you what about him,' said the
artist, declaiming with such gesture as only an
Italian uses. ' The Count is a villain, a hound,
a cur — a personage sunk in the depths of

infamy ! He came to me three months ago,
when my picture was but newly hung at
Burlington House, and he asked that I would
lend him four hundred pounds. I laughed.
I told him that when I had four hundred
shillings I looked at myself as at a Rothschild.
He also laughed. It was but an affair of a
week, of a day, two days, three days ; but he
was unknown here to the English bankers.
Would I back a bill for him ? He knew so
well no other countryman in London. Would
I so far assist him ? Then when his funds
came would I sell him my beautiful picture at
the Academy ? Would I paint more beautiful
pictures for his Villa della Luna? Will you
credit me, I was so much a fool that I
believed him ? Gran Dio, Carroll ! I believed
him ! Whom the gods would destroy they first
make mad ; and I believed him. But when
we came to the money-lender, he did not care
for my name. He would have a bill of sale.

That was the name. Do you know it ? No.
A bill of sale upon the poor little things in
my studio, and a claim upon my picture at
Burlington House. I agreed to everything
gladly. The Count had the money, and in a
week I missed him. Then comes one friend
and another. " My dear Baretti," they say, " is
it true that you have helped the Count ? He
is gone ; he is flown ; he owes everybody
money ; he does always so ; he is an adventurer
professed." '

I could have told you that much at the
first and only sight of his ugly face I ever had,'
said Tom.

Under a blow so crushing,' resumed
Baretti, ' what do I do ? I sit still in my
studio, deserted of my fancies. I try to paint.
I have forgotten that a black and a white make
gray. I am helpless. By-and-by — about a
month ago — the money-lender's people come,
and sell everything. My picture sells at the

Academy, and they take the money for it.
There is over and above a little handful of
shillings, and that they give me. That goes,
and I am a lost man.'

He ended with quivering hips, moved anew
by the narration of his own wrongs and
sufferings, and dropped dejectedly into an
arm-chair that stood near.

And, of course,' said Tom, ' you've never
heard of the Count again ? '

The little artist sat like a statue of despondency,
with his arms hanging helplessly at his
side ; but at this query he sprang to his feet,
and answered with wild gesticulation : —

The Count ? Ho is flown to his own
Phlegethon ! '

'Best place for him,' said Tom, quietly.
Let him stop there.'

Willingly,' answered Baretti, with a bitter
laugh, and dropped back into the arm-chair.

Cheer up, old fellow,' said Carroll, patting

him on the shoulder. ' It's all over now.
There's a stunning north light to the room
overhead, and it will make a capital studio. I
know it isn't engaged, and I'll just run downstairs
and take it now. The bedroom at the
back is thoroughly comfortable, and the place
will suit 3'ou to a hair. We'll lay in whatever
you want tomorrow ; and you'll soon find out
again that black and white are not the only
things to make a gray. You don't mind
staying alone for five minutes ? Cigars and
wine,' pushing a box and a decanter forward
on the table. ' Make yourself comfortable.
Back in five minutes.'

There was a glow in Tom's heart as he ran
downstairs to chaffer with the landlady about
a set of rooms for Baretti. He approved of
himself, and felt that he was a good sort of
fellow. By-and-by he returned beaming.

I've taken the rooms, Baretti. Come and
have a look at them.'

VOL. I. c

The artist arose and followed him upstairs,
moving like a man in a dream. Tom chattered
gaily, pointing out the loftiness of the windows,
and showing how the light could be arranged
by moving the shutters, which had been cut
across, by order of some former occupant,
an artist. Next he marched Baretti into the
bedroom, and dwelt at length upon its advantages,
talking rather at random, lest the
Italian should thank him.

And now,' he said, on regaining his own
rooms, ' you'll want money for your purchases
tomorrow. It will be better not to run into
debt to begin with. Suppose I give you a
cheque at once ? ' He sat down to write
it out, still chattering the while. A ring
was heard, and shortly afterwards a tap
sounded on the room - door. ' Come in,'
cried Tom, slipping his cheque-book into a
drawer.

Mr. Mark, sir,' said the maid, opening the

door, and she retiring, the personage announced
as Mr. Mark entered. He was not unlike the
regular occupant of the room at first sight, buta
second glance showed so many differences
that it began to be surprising that any likeness
had appeared between them. The most
marked of these differences was in expression.
Tom's face was full of light and gaiety. He
looked frankly at all men, with a not unpleasing
confidence in their approval of him, and pretty
generally with a full approval in his own eyes.
He was but a youngster yet, and was unaffectedly
fond of people. He liked almost
everybody ; and that cheerful mood of mind
was written on his good-looking countenance
in letters of brightness. His visitor, though a
handsomer man than Tom, had his personal
beauties strongly discounted by an unprepossessing
look of suspicion and dislike. It
was likely, you might have thought, that he
had but a poor opinion of men and women at
c 2

large — possibly a poor opinion of himself in
some directions.

How are you ? ' cried Tom, heartily,
rising to meet him. 'I didn't know you were
in town. This is my friend Baretti, Mark. I
dare say you remember his picture at the
Academy this year. This is my cousin Mark,
Baretti— Mark Carroll.'

Cousin Mark's glance took in the broken
boots, the frayed shabbiness of the velvet coat
every sign of poverty the artist's dilapidated
dress displayed. He bowed stiffly, and Baretti
answered with a sense of discomfort and shamefacedness.


I wouldn't have come to-night,' said Mark,
^ had I known you were engaged. Shall you
be in at twelve tomorrow ? '

Yes,' said Tom. ' Anything particular ? '

Father particular,' answered Mark.

Baretti will excuse us,' said Tom, brightly.
Come into the bedroom.'

The little artist bowed frigidly as the newcomer
passed him. Mark disregarded the
salute.

I'm in something of a hole, Tom he said,
closing the bedroom door behind him. ' I
want fifty pounds. Can you let me have it ? '

When do you want it ? ' Tom inquired.

To-morrow, at twelve.'

To-morrow ! ' Tom echoed, with a rather

dismal face. ' I'm a little ' He cleared in a

second. ' Come at three instead of twelve, and
I'll have it ready for you.'

All right,' said Cousin Mark, rather ungraciously.
' I'll be here. I say, who's that
fellow ? ' He nodded backwards towards the
sitting-room.

You've heard of Baretti,' said Tom.
Rising artist. One of the most promising
young painters in London.'

One would guess as much to look at him,'
said Mark, with a smile. His smile was less

agreeable than his habitual expression, and
when that is the case, it generally augurs ill of
a man.

Oh,' said Tom, deceptively, ' that sort of
man is often careless about appearances.'

I suppose,' said Mark, ' he's on my errand.
Came to borrow money, didn't he ? '

I asked him here to dinner,' Tom answered.
He's a capital fellow — one of the best fellows
in the world.'

Everybody is " one of the best fellows in
the world " with you,' said Mark, smiling again.
I am one of the best fellows in the world
myself.'

Why, so you are,' Tom answered, laughing
; ' I am another. Come in and have a talk
with Baretti. You'll find him a charming
fellow, I assure you.'

No,' said Mark ; ' I won't stay to-night.
At three tomorrow. Good-night ! '

The two young men came back into the

sitting-room, and shook hands. Baretti's head
had dropped forward as he sat in the big armchair
near the fire, and his regular breathing
betrayed the fact that he had fallen asleep.
Tom laid a hand upon his shoulder to awake
him, and the artist, sleepily opening his eyes,
stared at him for a second or two without
recognition, and, rising, took two or three steps
forward, before he was fairly awake.

I beg your pardon,' he stammered ; ' I am
over-fatigued.'

Mark nodded with his own smile, and
gently pulled Tom from the room.

Has that rising artist,' he whispered
behind his hand, as they paused upon the
landing — ' has that rising artist ever obeyed the
policeman's " Move on, there ? " He looked
rather like it.'

Pooh ! ' said Tom, in a disconcerted way.
Three o'clock tomorrow. Good-night, Mark ! '

I am ashamed to have fallen asleep,' said

Baretti, when his host re-entered the room ;
but I am very tired.*

Of course you are,' said Tom, reopening
the drawer in which he had placed the cheque.

That,' he went on, pushing the paper into
Baretti's hand, ' will set you going again, and
leave you a little margin.'

The broken artist looked from the cheque
to Tom, and from Tom to the cheque, like one
amazed; and before the Englishman knew it
the Italian was at his feet, clasping both his
hands, and pouring out an incoherent torrent
of thanksgiving.

Nonsense, man ! ' cried Tom, half angrily.

Get up, and don't make a fool of yourself.
You would have done as much for me if the
cases had been reversed.'

'No,' cried the painter, springing to his
feet and confronting his benefactor with outstretched
hands and flashing eyes, ' I would not
have done so much for you. But now

Am I a fiend to say that I should like to see
you iu misery, in want, in disgrace, in despair,
that I might die to comfort you ? '

Bosh ! ' said the young Briton, with an air
of shame. ' I'm not going to fall into disgrace
and misery to oblige anybody. If you do want
to oblige me, Baretti, you can do it easily.'

How ? ' cried the little man, with a iier}^
gesture of interrogation, as if he would have
rent his friend to pieces. ' Tell me.'

Forget the Count, and set to work again.'

I shall find my chance,' said Baretti, with
an aspect of almost tragic gloom. 'You will
want me some day. I shall not die until I
have repaid you.'

Why, man alive,' said Carroll, with feigned
impatience, ' you've only to set to work to be
able to pay me in a month ! '

To pay you what ? ' demanded the little
man. ' The handful of money that you lend
me ? Yes. But the hope you gave me when

I despaired ? The faith I had lost in human
nature P The life I should have thrown away
to-night?'

You never meant that, Baretti ? ' Tom
demanded, gi-avery. The painter's eyes fell,
and his head drooped.

Yes,' he said, stonily ; ' I meant it. And
but for you,' he cried, with new fire in his eyes
and his voice, ' I should have done it. Carroll,
I am yours — your friend, your brother, your
servant, your slave ! '

All right, old man,' said Carroll, shaking
hands with him. ' Say no more about it.'

Good,' said Baretti. ' I will say no more.
But it is true, and I mean it.'

It was good acting if he did not mean it.
His eyes gleamed like black fire, and his lips
quivered. When the two had parted, Tom
reflected on the events of the night, and said
to himself, not without satisfaction : —

I ought to have made a friend.'

CHAPTEE II.

There is a school of philosophers according to
whose tenets it is easy to be philosophical.
The aspirant to wisdom learns that there is
little to be done but to set the basest construction
on all human motives, and to believe and
prophesy the worst in regard to all human
actions. This royal road to philosophy has
been pursued by notable people, and the man
who travels by it is sure of certain obvious
advantages. The clock that stands still tells
the truth twice a-day, and the mental attitude
which never varies will find itself justified upon
occasion. It is an axiom with the acrid school
that if you do a man a service he will hate
you; and, Hke many other axioms of many

Other schools, it is true in some cases and false
in others.

A man who takes another out of the streets
of London and shelters him ; who takes him
out of despair and brings him home to hope
again ; who takes him from the dread of au
ignominious finish to life and gives him new
chances of fame and fortune, does what few
men have a chance to do, and may fairly be
said to have deserved gratitude. Tom had
done an undoubted good turn to Baretti, but
he had not looked for so volcanic a thanksgiving
as the little man offered in return.
Gratitude was not a sentiment but a passion
with this hot little Italian. His benefactor
filled his thoughts as a dearly-beloved mistress
might have done. He deified him as young
men in love deify their sweethearts. Tom
Carroll was the noblest, the most generous, the
handsomest, and the ablest man in the world
to Antonio Baretti. For weeks after the artist's

recovery from despair there were minutes when
he laid down his brushes because he could not
see his canvas for the moisture in his eyes, ashe
thought of the magnificent tender goodness
of til is best of friends and patrons.

My Lord Bellamy — a neighbour of Thomas
Carroll the elder, in the country — had given
Baretti a commission (of course through Tom's
intercession), and Baretti was at work on a
canvas measuring six feet by four, painting
with prodigious ardour to the sound of Tom's
violin, which came soaring from the room
below. Thin cascades of scales, sonorous
cascades of scales, sometimes a tune which
made Baretti long to dance, and sometimes a
plaintive air which made the emotional little
fellow long to cry — these sounds arose almost
continually, for some six or seven hours a day.

Be witness for me,' the youngster would
sometimes say to Baretti, quoting Mrs.
Browning : —

Be witness for me — with no amateur's
Irreverent haste and busy idleness
I wrought for art.'

And then, being newly inspired, he would go
back to his fiddling and saw sparks of light
and laughter, or long sweet sighs of musical
anguish, from the fiddle-strings.

You may believe that these were happy
days for the rehabilitated artist. Such halcyon
visions of fame as ardent young painters
have were with him often, and were always
sweetened by his gratitude, and his resolve to
show it and prove it to the world at large.
He had promises within him of such a brotherhood
in art as the world had never seen.
Carroll could afford to work and wait for pure
art's sake, and would be hailed some day as a
great composer, and the king of fiddlers, and
Baretti himself was going to vault straightway
into fame by the painting of this one picture.
And when they were both great men, and the

painter was in the very ripeness and zenith of
his day, lie would go down to Tom's country
mansion and enrich its walls, as mortal walls
were never enriched before, with colour and
sweet form. And they would be friends forever,
with no possibility of a Wrinkle on the
face of the young cherub of friendship who
smiled so dearly now. A good little fellow,
with a fine exaggerative heart and temperament,
hopeful of gratitude, and love, and
hope, and an ambition nine-tenths unselfish !

Master Tom, though not quite the paragon
bis southern 'protege believed him, was worthier
of this unstinted admiration than often happens,
and being himself of a generous, open nature,
and having done the Italian so brotherly a
turn, he was of course immensely fond of him
and interested in his successes. So these two
lads of five-and-twenty loved and admired each
other loyally — the Englishman with a shy sentiment
and a purposely roughened outside to it,

and the Italian with a downright openness of
declaration which embarrassed while it pleased.
The artistic enthusiasm of the one spurred that
of the other, and they slaved away with ardour
at their respective pursuits. Tom saw much less
of the fashionable world in these days than he
had been used to see, and, with the constant
labour to which he gave himself, made real
progress in his difficult art.

Cousin Mark was a frequent visitor at Tom's
chambers, where he smoked Tom's savannahs
and drank Tom's claret, whilst he listened with
his own cynical grin to Baretti's encomiums on
Tom and Tom's encomiums on Baretti. The
painter was not merely rescued from seediness
of apparel, but being provided with the wherewithal
by his moneyed friend, had blossomed
into outrageous sartorial gaieties which somehow
seemed to suit him. Tom had lent him in alla
hundred and fifty pounds, and since Baretti
was to receive three hundred for his picture, he

bore the weight of his money debt with
patience. He wore a velvet sacque to paint in,
and was generally to be seen indoors in a
gorgeous smoking-cap, and slippers in the hues
of sunrise dyed. Certain valuable meerschaum
pipes, which had been confided to the care of
mine uncle (to whose door the artist had found
the mournful road a month before), were in his
own possession again, and one of these always
gave a fitting finish, to the picture he presented.

Cousin Mark was not burdened with more
money than he knew what to do with. His
uncle — Thomas Carroll the elder — was not
disposed to be over and above liberal, and
Mark's profession of barrister was so far
unremunerative to him. Cousin Tom, on the
contrary, had plenty of money, having inherited
a few loose thousands from his mother, and
being in receipt of a comfortable additional
allowance from his father. Tom's position
from Mark's point of view was enviable.

VOL. I. D

There are two or three sorts of envy, only-one
of the kids being criminaL But — not to
beat about the bush — Cousin Mark's envy of
Tom Carroll had a little of the criminal tinge
in it. Mark had carefully trained himself into
the belief that human goodness was a sham,
and that nothing was done by anybody without
an eye to the quid ^jro quo. Uncle Thomas
gave him an allowance. Good. He flattered
uncle Thomas, and believed himself expected
to do so. Cousin Tom was ridiculously generous.
Well, money was cheap with cousin Tom,
and to that absurd order of mind it was worth
money to be called a good fellow, and to surround
oneself with sycophants. Mark begged
from the father and borrowed from the son,
and was properly sycophantic, with an undercurrent
of cynical humour in his service, and
an affectation of manly bluntness which more
than redeemed him in his own eyes.

Now, Mark had a mania for getting at the

bottom of things, and from the first hour when
he had seen his cousin and Baretti together
their connection had puzzled hmi a little.
CalHng; one cveninsf he found Baretti alone and,
quite unnecessarily, began to pump him.

It's rather odd, Signor Baretti,' said Mark,
that you and I should never have met until a
fortnight ago, since Tom and you are such
friends.'

Ah ! ' said the Italian, with a bright and
tender smile. ' We are old acquaintances, but
the friendship is a new one. The friendship
began the night you first met me here.'

And, eager to exalt his idol, the painter
began to tell the story. He reiterated with
profuse Italian action the history of the Count's
wickedness, and he pourtrayed his own misery
and despair. He acted the part of Tom Carroll in
the Strand, the compassionate, the generous, the
good : he enacted his own part at that memorable
interview also, sparing in his description
J) 2

no breach in his boots or tinge of yellow on
his frayed shirt-collar. He brought his hero
and himself into the very room in which he
told the moving story. He cast himself anew
upon his knees and buried his head in the armchair
in illustration of his own abandonment to
sorrow. He sprang to his feet and spoke out
of his chest in imitation of the admirable
rescuer's cheery manner. There were tears in
his lambent soft eyes as he lauded his preserver
and swore fidelity to him.

London is pretty thickly provided with
human contrasts, but it would not have been
easy to find two young fellows wider apart in
thought and feeling in all London's limits than
the man who told and the man who heard this
story. Mark listened with interest, and was
even not without admiration. He admitted
that — in the Italian style of art — Baretti's was
a very fine performance. He thought that he
had never seen the cynic's definition of gratitude

SO well illustrated. To say that he doubted
the genuineness of Baretti's protestations would
be to do Mark an injustice. He was certain
in his own mind that the little man was a liar
and a pretender — like other people. Only, he
hed and pretended better than the ruck, being
an artist and having command over what were
called the emotions.

To Baretti such an injustice as Mark did
him would have seemed impossible, even if he
could have been brought to understand the
mental condition which created it. Not to
have been grateful would have been prodigious,
and all his southern soul was given to his
preserver.

Where the carcass is,' said Mark to himself,
'there will the vultures be gathered
together. If there were plenty for both I
suppose no two would waste time in pecking at
each other. But this Italian vulture is a big-beaked
fellow — a fellow with an appetite. A

hundred and fifty is a good-sized first mouthful ;
and a mere flap of the wings won't scare that
harpy. I must dig him in the ribs and pretty
keenly. The British bird was only just in time,
a fortnight ago, to secure a morsel one-third
the size of the foreign bird's mouthful.'

Whilst he entertained these reflections Mark
was pleasantly conscious of his own cynical
humour and his own cynical candour. Carious
how, if you show any man his face in the glass,
he is not displeased with it. Execrable singers
chant for their own amusement, and like their
own voices. It is conceivable that the skunk
esteems his own odour highly, and would have
a poor opinion of eau-de-cologne. And, quite
as a matter of course, cousin Mark thought his
own mental attitude admirable. If he had the
penetration to see through Baretti's humbug, he
had also the honesty to admit the truth about
himself. And it would not be true of him to
say that he began to hate the little painter.

Active sentiments of any kind did not come
to him easily, and life, though a warfare, was
to be gone through with no more passion than
was necessary. There are men who would
skewer you if you could not otherwise be got
out of their way, and if it were safe to do it,
without mercy, and without rage — just at the
bidding of a cold hunger for yom share of
things — and Mark Carroll was of them.

It is one of the vulgares errors in the
world that men are unhappy in proportion to
the narrowness of their sympathies. The
garter s conscience is the cat-o'-nine-tails.

When Mark came to look at it fairly and
squarely, he saw how difficult, if not impossible,
it would be to separate the two friends.
He tested Tom and found him full of the
most ridiculous belief in the genuineness of
Baretti. Mark did not doubt that Tom laid
the flattering unction to his own soul in all
sincerity.

My cousin Tom,' said Mark to himself,
is fool enough for anything.'

But in due time Baretti's picture was
finished and paid for, and, before its transfer
to my Lord Bellamy's country seat, was on
view at one of the Pall Mall galleries. It
made some noise in the world of art and
brought a commission or two.

On the day on which Baretti received his
cheque it happened that Mark and Tom sat
together in the latter's room. Enter the
painter in his dark purple velvet, his smoking
cap and slippers — a study in colour.

Good-day, Mr. Mark Carroll ! ' cried the
little man, with a beaming countenance.
Good-day, Mr. Tom Carroll ! ' He fluttered
the fortunate piece of paper in one hand and
executed a fantastic 'pas seul. ' That,' he said,
clapping the document on the table and
bringing down both palms upon it resonantly,
is the cheque of my Lord Bellamy for three

hundred sterling pounds. Aha ! It is addressed
to Antonio Baretti, Esquire, and Antonio
Baretti, Esquire, has written his famous name
of European celebrity upon the back of it.
Observe, Mr. Mark Carroll — until the famous
name was written upon its back that document
was without value. By inscribing the famous
name I create three hundred sterling; English
pounds ! I venerate myself like a cashier of
the Bank of England. More. I pay my debts,
and I kiss the hands of the best of men, my
preserver.'

Before Tom had guessed what he was
about, the painter was actually on his knees
putting his words into action. The young
Englishman blushed, and upset his chair in
his haste to be out of gratitude's way. Mark
looked on, smiling, with a smile that characterised
the pair.

Humbug and idiot ! ' said Mark's smile.
Though Tom had run out of Baretti's way he

looked at the little painter with gratified
affection, plainly to be read through all his
embarrassment. And in the fiery Italian's
dark eyes there Alas a visible moisture.

You be bio wed ! ' said Tom, making a
feeble shot at humors, and trying lamely to
disguise his own pleasure. ' Who asked you
for the money ? '

Not you,' said Baretti, with a happy and
affectionate laugh. ' I^ot you by a word or a
look. He lends,' he cried, turning to Mark,
with the magnificence of Maecenas, and he waits
for repayment like Patience upon a pedestal.'

He does,' cried Mark, his smile expanding.
If he can't see through this,' thought Mark,
the beggar's too blear-eyed to see through
anything.'

Eubbish ! ' said Tom. ' I'm very glad you
have the money, Baretti, very glad. Pay me
when you like.'

'I like to pay you now,' said Baretti.

• Not — believe me ! — not that it is a burden to
owe you money ' (Mark grinned outright at
this touch of artful simplicity), ' but because to
pay you is yet the greatest pleasure I have ever
known.' Tom looked at Mark, and Baretti
caught the glance. ' Your cousin,' he cried,
is no stranger to this business. He knows
what you lent me, and Why you lent it.' Tom
looked at him with reproach in his eyes. ' I
could not help telling him,' said the artist
beseechingly.

I ought to have told you, Tom, how affectionately
Mr. Baretti spoke of you,' said Mark,
with commendable gravity. The acting on
both sides was really diverting to Mark, who
believed in Tom's annoyance just as much as in
Baretti's gratitude.

Eubbish ! ' said Tom, again.

Sit down, Carroll,' cried Baretti, ' and write
me a cheque for one hundred and fifty pounds.'

Tom, with a little air of lingering unwillingness,

obeyed, and Baretti, having acquitted
his debt, executed a second fantastic joys seuL

Will they take so small a sum as this at
the bank ? ' he demanded by-and-by. ' Then
let us go and put it in straightway. Come !
I will make myself fit for out-of-doors in a
minute.'

He darted away, returning presently attired
in a velvet shooting-coat and a wide awake hat,
and drawing on, with loving care and precision,
a pair of lavender-coloured kid gloves.
He wore white gaiters over his little patent-feathered
feet, and carried a natty little cane-stick
under his arm.

Mark, having no especial business on his
hands, accompanied Baretti and his cousin.
Before they had gone a hundred yards they
saw, in a quiet street opening off Montague
Gardens, two people walking placidly towards
them. The one was a stoutish, broad-shouldered
young man, with a swarthy fat face, beady

eyes, and a jetty moustache. On cheeks and
chin he was blue with close shaving, and it
was a hundred pounds to a penny, at first
sight, that he was an operatic tenor and an
Italian. The other was a gloriously caparisoned
young woman, a pronounced brunette,
with large, languishing black eyes, and extremely
ripe, red lips, and a languishing gait,
which was yet elastic. Her figure was inclined,
but only inclined, to embonpoint and Mark,
who thought himself something of a connoisseur
in female beauty, pronounced her a fine
woman on the spot. Baretti beholding the
approaching pair, who walked arm-in-arm with
a tender leaning towards each other, broke
away from his companions and made a dash
at the swarthy fat man, whom he hailed in
voluble Italian and kissed vehemently on both
cheeks, standing on tiptoe to do it. Next, with
much ceremony, he saluted the lady, and the
swarthy man was heard to murmur —

Signora Mali.'

This,' said Baretti, turning to Tom and
Mark, ' is my famous countryman — like myself,
of Naples — Signor Malfi. II Maestro
Thomas Carroll,' addressing the Italian.

Eubbish ! ' said Tom, for the third time
that morning, but he bowed to the swarthy
Italian and the radiant vomits woman, whilst
Baretti introduced cousin Mark. Cousin
Mark, finding the stranger's stock of English
extremely limited, addressed him in Italian
(of which tongue he was complete master),
thanking him, with many courteous flourishes,
for the delight which he (the swarthy, fat
man) had given Mark at Milan, and Naples,
and in London. Signor Malfi took all this
like a man who was used to it, but he was
nevertheless pleased to find an Englishman
to whom it was no trouble to talk, and he set
out at once in the open street with a vivacious
history of the villanies of one Cordial, a

miserable ^vretcli who presumed to consider
himself a rival. All this was Italian to Tom,
who was relieved when he saw Baretti shaking
hands with the tenor and preparing to leave
him. But there was still a little delay. The
wickedness of the rival tenor had made some
explanations necessary to a provincial theatrical
manager then in town, and Signor Malfi begged
Baretti to accompany him and translate.

Signor Baretti,' said Mark, in the operatic
tenor's own tongue, ' is a busy man just now,
and I am an idle one. I am entirely at your
service.'

You of the family of Carroll,' said the
painter, ' are all alike. Generous and obliging
to a fault.'

Mark smiled in answer. The Signora
Malfi was a singularly fine woman, and Mark
had nothing to do. And, besides, the briefless
barrister was one of those men who always
find it worth while to know theatric and

operatic people. One got stalls in that way
at times, and to a man who is bound to be
seen in the world, and who has no great
resources of his owen, that sort of thing is
worth angling for. The singer was not unwilling
to accept Mark's good offices, and Mark
insisted on proffering them with almost overwhelming
politeness. So it befell that Baretti
and Tom went one way, whilst Mark and his
new acquaintances went another in pursuit
of the theatrical manager. The signora's face
and figure, and the signora's conversation, had
so many attractions for Mark that, when the
manager had been visited and the singer's
honour — on which he appeared to set some
value — had been cleared, he consented to dine
with his obliged friends, and accompanied
them to a restaurant in Prince's Street, where
garlic was the staple of half the dishes, and
the Chianti was excellent.

Here were other gentlemen with stoutish,

broad-shouldered figures, swarthy fat faces,
beady eyes and jetty moustaches, who were
also blue with close shaving on cheeks and
chin. With most of these Signor Malfi was
on easy terms, and they shouted from their
different parts of the room, and gesticulated
at each other with amiable ferocity across the
little oblong tables on which the meal was
served. The signora was the only person
of the gentler sex there present, and Mark
observed an absence of restraint in conversation
which argued the lady of an indulgent
turn.

After dinner the company drank coffee,
clustered at one table, and smoked cigars,
called Virginian, priced at twopence and
measuring nine inches in length ; and finally
three or four of the swarthy fat men started
with Signor Malfi and the lady for their
apartments, Mark keeping them company
still. All the men pausing in the middle of

VOL. I. E

Ardour Street to shout together, in the
absurd belief that they were discussing something,
Mark politely offered his arm to the
signora, and at an easy pace walked on.

CHAPTEE III.

Thomas Carroll the elder was a justice of trie
peace, and chairman of the guardians of the
poor. He owned half a village and some two
thousand acres of land in a Mid-England
county.

To be a landowner is not, of itself, to be
uncommon. A justice of the peace is not
necessarily higher than the angels. There
are chairmen of boards of guardians, even,
who will never set the Thames on fire. But
to be Thomas Carroll was, in the very nature
of things, to be a remarkable man.

When people differed from ]VIr. Carroll, as
they sometimes did, he displayed surprise and
pity. In politics he was a Tory, and it was a

E 2

^'~^7iR9T<

habit of his to say that he could only conceive
of a Eadical as a fool or a knave. In either
case he knew how to tolerate. A large nature
is always lenient.

To have bought him at his own price and
sold him in open market would have broken
the Bank of England. In his affable way he
condescended to everybody, and was mightily
proud of having so little pride. As befitted
his sense of his own majesty he was tall and
portly. He was bald to the crown, and he
came out in photographs as a man with a lofty
forehead. His iron-gray hair was crisp and
ciu-led, his cheeks were rosy, his hands were
large, and very plump and white. In dress he
was a trifle old-fashioned, and he wore but one
jewel, a big rose-diamond, which gave opportunities
for the display of his handsome fingers.

Trench House, his residence, dominated
Overhill and looked down upon it from a turfy,
well timbered slope which faced southward — a

big, squat building in mellow red brick, not
very picturesque, but looking homelike and
dignified in the midst of its trees and lawns
and gardens. Within easy view of its front
windows there stood (and for that matter still
stands) a gray old farmhouse, which was
tenanted by a yeoman whose forbears had once
owned the land about it. These people had
fallen bit by bit from their prosperous estate,
and had parted bit by bit with their possessions,
and now for a generation or two they
had farmed the land more or less unsuccessfully.
One Michael Moore, the first of the
family of whom any record had been kept,
had been an Ironside. His sword and his iron
head-pot were preserved in a high state of
polish and glitter above the mantle-shelf. One
George Moore had served two years in the
county jail as a physical-force Chartist, and his
memory was also cherished. The existent
Michael Moore was proud of these bright spots

in the family bead-roll, and was an uncompromising
Eadical. In the struggle for the repeal
of the Corn Laws the existent Michael had
made his name a stench in the nostrils of supporters
of the agricultural interest, and had
been looked upon as an Achan in the agricultural
camp. He had had painted across the
front of the farmhouse (so that his Tory landlord
might read the legend whenever he looked
out of window), ' Peace, Retrenchment, and
Reform,' and the letters were dimly traceable
even now. Perhaps if Michael had devoted
himself to farming with the ardour he threw
into politics he might have prospered.

On a certain misty autumn afternoon Mr.
Carroll, mounted on a handsome hack, jogged
comfortably along the road which led from
Trench House to the farm, and sighted a little
crowd about the building. Remembering suddenly
the occasion of this gathering, he would
fain have turned back again, but he knew that

he must have been observed already, and so
held on. The crowd was made up of the
people of the village, with here and there a
stranger, and standing in a waggon in front of
the house with a table before him was a man
in a white hat, who held forth noisily.

Any advance on twelve ten ? Twelve
ten ! A high-class heifer, sire and dam both
known! Really, gentlemen, really! Thirteen?
Thank you, Mr. Jones. Thirteen ! Any advance
on thirteen ? '

The last link between the Moores and their
old homestead was broken, and they were

prongs away.

As Mr. Carroll, with raised hat in answer
to many salutations from the farmyard, was
jogging by, there came from the yard-gate a
man with a florid complexion and white hair.

So you've come to see the last of us, eh,
Squire ? You'll be easier in your mind when
we're gone, no doubt.'

I am afraid the village will not be sorry
to lose you, Moore,' returned the landlord.
But you will have the goodness to remember
that this is none of my doing.' He waved his
hand towards the yard, from which they were
hidden by the corner of the building. ' I can
but feel that I have been forbearing as a landlord,
not merely in the matter of rent, but in
respect also to the farm, which has considerably
deteriorated in value of late years.'

Well, Squire,' returned the other, ' you've
little enough to grumble over. As to the rent,
you'll have it to the uttermost farthing ; and as
to the farm, it's been treated better than it
deserves. It's a sour, poor land, and always
was, and always will be. But I don't want to
have any bad blood between you and me.'

My good fellow ' began Mr. Carroll,

with a tolerant wave of his hand, and a smile
of tranquil amusement.

Whatever I've said again' you has been

said as a public duty, and not again' you as a
man pursued the farmer.

'You do me some injustice, Moore,' said
Mr. Carroll, with his tranquil smile. ' I don't
know what you have said ; I don't care at all
what you have said. I am sorry to destroy
any dream you may have cherished, but it is a
fact that you have never troubled me, except
by your mismanagement of the land.'

I know you're tough enough in the hide,'
said the farmer, ' but I thought I might have
pricked you once or twice. I don't think
you're a bad sort at bottom, though you'll find
out more than you know about the land when
you begin to farm it, as I'm told you're going
to. But I'm going away, and I want to do it
friend-like. I've got nothing again' you, Squire,
barring politics, and I'm not averse to shaking
hands, if so be that you are willing.'

'Very well, my good fellow,' said the
Squire, leaning downwards and proffering two

fingers of his right hand. The other two were
needed to hold the gold-headed riding whip.

I don't want two fingers, Squire,' said the
outgoing tenant. ' I want a hand, if I have
anything.'

Very well, my good fellow, very well,' said
Mr. Carroll again, smiling outright this time.
I wish you well, Moore, and if you desire to
give my good wishes effect, you will drop those
foolish political notions of yours and give your
time and your thoughts to business. A man in
your station has no business with politics.'

All right, Squire,' said the farmer. ' IVe
said already you're not a bad sort at bottom,
and I'm glad there's no ill-blood between us.
Good-bye ! '

Shall I see you again ? ' asked Mr. Carroll,
with twinkling eyes and his clean-shaven lips
twitching. Mr. Carroll was fond of musing on
the subject of human egotism, and Moore's
display tickled him rarely.

No,' said the farmer. ' Woolley is lawyer
as well as auctioneer, and he's got a full list of
my debts. He'll pay 'em all ; the rent among
'em. So this is good-bye in earnest.'

Good-bye, Moore, good-bye ! And take
my advice about the politics.'

With that the Squire rode away, still calmly
amused. Tt was noticeable that most men's
estimates of Mr. Carroll tickled him. Almost
everybody, with the exception of people of the
lowest class, spoke to him as they spoke to anybody
else ! He had frequent cause to smile at
human insolence, but to have been ruffled by it
would have been too absurd. He jogged along
in a splendid placid contentment until the railway
station was in sight. At some expense
to himself and some inconvenience to the village,
he had insisted that the railway line
should not approach his house too closely.
It was a branch line and a small adair, which
so far paid no dividend, and Mr. Carroll had

become a large shareholder in it in order to save
his property from desecration. A train was
puffing along, lazily enough, the steam ascending
on the heavy autumn air in straight columns
and lingering about the fields. At the station
door was the solitary fly the village boasted,
and standing near, apparently giving directions
to the driver about a heap of luggage, was
Thomas Carroll the younger, in company with
a small man who looked like a foreigner. Mr.
Carroll put up his gold-rimmed double-eyeglass
to be sure of his son's identity, and rode
forward.

How do you do, Tom ? How do you
do ? I had not expected you until tomorrow.'


I said the twenty-second,' answered Tom.

And this,' said Mr. Carroll, ' is the twenty-first.
I had ordered Baker to meet you herewith
the carriage. The same unmethodical
Tom as ever.'

'I ^vonclered nobody was here,' said Tom
with a laugh. ' Father, this is Signor Baretti.
My father, Baretti.'

Mr. Carroll bowed in good-humoured condescension.


The — the artist? ' he asked, putting up the
gold-rimmed glasses.

Yes,' said Tom. ' You remember his picture
at the Academy ? Saturn after his fall —
with a line from Keats, " Deep in the shady
sadness of a vale." '

Deep in the shady sadness of her veil,' said
Mr. Carroll. ' Of course. I remember distinctly.
You are welcome to Overhill, Mr. —
er '

'Baretti,' said Tom.

You are welcome to Overhill, Mr. Baretti,'
said Tom's father, ' and welcome to Trench
House. I am superior,' he added, with a
charming smile and a reassuring wave of the
right hand, ' to the absurd prejudices which

j animate so many members of my own class
J with regard to yours.'

Baretti bowed with commendable gravity,
but there was a twinkle in his handsome Italian
eyes which seemed to bespeak an inward sentiment
of mirth.

I thank you, sir,' he said, breaking silence
for the first time.

I am probably right in presuming,' said
Mr. Carroll, with cheerful affability, ' that Mr.
Baretti is not a native of this country ? Ah,
Signor Baretti ! Of course — of course ! An
Italian, Signor Baretti ? '

I am an Italian, sir,' returned the painter.

I know nothing more absurd than national

prejudices,' said Mr. Carroll, genially. 'An

Italian is as welcome at Trench House, Signor

Baretti, as an Englishman. A man of large

/ nature is cosmopolitan.'

Baretti bowed again, not feeling called upon
to say anything. Tom hid his embarrassment

among the luggage, and Lis father, with an expression
of the pleasure it would give him to
meet Tom's friend at dinner, rode on again.

Take these things up to the house,' said
Tom to the driver of the flj. ' We'll walk,
Baretti.' The painter cheerfully assenting, they
went on together. In a while Carroll tui-ned
upon his companion with a laugh half shy and
half sly. ' Well, Baretti. Isn't he pretty nearly
as good as I told you he would be ? '

I do not like,' said Baretti gravely, '' that a
son should speak lightly of a father.'

'No, no,' cried the young Englishman,
with a blush. ' He's a splendid old fellow, is
my governor. I never knew a better man.
But he is a little pompous. That's his only
fault. He's a trifle pompous.'

He is a little pompous,' Baretti assented
with much gravity.

But you mustn't be offended by him,' said
Tom.

I shall not be offended by him,' returned
Baretti, with a look of almost canine affection
at his companion.

I wanted to walk,' said Tom, not without
something of an air of haste to be rid of the
subject, ' so that I might show you some of
those ready-made pictures I spoke of. There I
That old farmhouse is one of them, though this
is an unfortunate day for looking at it, because
the mist shuts out the distance. This is the
real point of view, over the stile here. It's a
little muddy, but a landscape painter in search
of subjects won't mind that, I dare say.'

The landscape painter in search of subjects
seemed to hang back a little. It was not the
mud which made him linger, as Tom discovered
when he turned. A girl with a graceful figure
and attired like a lady came walking in the
direction of the stile, most unaffectedly crying
as she walked.

Dear me. Miss Moore,' cried Tom, vaulting

into the field and approaching, hat in hand,
you are in distress.'

The girl, in answer to this obvious statement,
looked up and blushed and started, then
paled and looked down again.

I was saying good-bye to the old place,
Mr. Carroll,' she answered, simply. * I didn't
know that anyone was near.'

Are you going away ? ' asked Tom. ' We
shall all be sorry to lose you.'

Yes,' the girl answered, suppressing a fresh
burst of tears. ' Everything was sold to-day,
and we leave to-night.'

God bless my soul ! ' said Tom, fatuously.

The farm has not been paying for a longtime,'
the girl went on, ' and father resolved to
sell everything and go to London.'

To London ? ' asked Tom in amazement.
What on earth is a farmer going to do in
London ? I beg your pardon, I didn't mean to
be impertinent, but all this is such news to me.

VOL. I. F

He means to start a dairy there,' the girl
explained. ' Won't you go in, Mr. Carroll ?
He will be glad to see you.'

She mounted the stile without Tom's
assistance, and pulling down her veil led the
way to the house. Baretti had walked on a
little, and Tom in passing asked to be excused
for a minute. The farmer, with an unconcerned,
if not a very cheerful look, sat by the
fireside smoking. The room and the walls
where bare, and the chamber wore a wretched
and dismantled aspect.

How d'ye do, Mister Thomas .^ ' said the
smoker, rising with a hearty greeting. ' Sit
down, sir — sit down. There's nothing but the
chimney-settle to sit on, for we re clearing out
to-day, but you won't mind that, I know.'

'But what does it all mean? ' asked Tom.
Isn't it very sudden ? '

Sudden ! ' said the farmer, with a grim
laugh. ' It began in Az day.' He looked upward

to the spot on which the CromweUiau
soldier's sword and head-piece had been used
to honor. ' He owned the land, and he was the
first that ever raised money on a foot of it.
And, saving your presence, we've been going
to the devil ever since, at greater or lesser
speed, and — here we are.' He waved, a
hand to indicate the bare walls and floor, and
laughed again. ' But at last, Mister Thomas,
I've shook that four-hundred-acre incubus off
the family shoulders, and I feel my own man
again. The missis takes on at going, and so
does Azubah, but I've done the right thing, and
though it's a bit of a wrench when all's said,
I'm glad I've done it.'

Then there has been no quarrel with my
father ? ' Tom asked.

Your father ! ' said the farmer, with a

much more cheerful laugh. 'I don't believe

the Old Enemy himself could quarrel with your

father, sir. He'd no more dream of quarrelling

p 2

with me than I should of harbouring a deadly
spite again a mouse. He's too lofty for it. I
put it to him this afternoon, scarce an hour
ago : " There's no ill-blood betwixt us, Squire?"
says I. Why, I saw him laughing at me, at
the bare idea of my having the cheek to think
I was big enough for him to think about.'

Come, come, Moore,' said Tom, in a tone
of remonstrance.

Oh, that's your duty, sir, and I'll say no
more ! ' returned the farmer. ' And I'm glad to
know you come in time to see the last of us.
The two houses, so they do say, foot on different
sides in Cromwell's time, but we've been
good friends and neighbours since, and I'm
pleased to part at peace. Well, sir, here's the
cart at the door, and we've got the train to
catch. It's a short welcome for the last time,
Mister Thomas, but it'll always be a good one
so long as there is a roof tree over Michael
Moore's head. So, good-bye, sir, and God bless

you ! ' He shook hands with Tom, wringing
his hand harder than he knew, and bustled to
the foot of the stairs. ' Here's Jack ready with
the cart, missis, and Mister Thomas is here to
say good-bye.'

The farmer's daughter stood in the middle
of the dismantled room, and Tom Carroll, looking
at her, felt grieved for her. He had played
with her when he was a child, and he had
known her all his life.

I am sorry you are going,' he said ; ' very
sorry.' He held out his hand, and she laid hers
in it languidly. He felt a little awkward and
clumsy at this, for he had meant a farewell
shake-hands, and the girl's fingers gave no sign
of a responsive grip. So he stood feeling foolish
enough for perhaps ten seconds, and that,
though not a long time in most circumstances,
is more than long enough to feel foolish in
with any degree of comfort. In spite of his
discomfiture, however — and he was always shy

with women — she could not help looking at his
old playmate, and it came into his mind with
something of a shock — what a pretty girl she
was ! ISTot in the conventional way, perhaps,
but what splendid soft brown eyes, what a
sensitive mouth, how graceful a figure, what a
pretty curve in the neck and shoulders, while
the sad head drooped and the brown eyes
looked up tearful and artless like a child's !
Yet the girl was eighteen if she were a day, and
old enough to have known better than to look
at a young man in a fashion so embarrassing if
only she had thought about it. It was sufficiently
evident that she thought of nothing
just then except the sorrow of going and parting,
unless it were, perhaps, the altogether
unacknowledged and unconscious comfort of
having her hand in a friend's, and that friend a
man.

Whatever embarrassment the situation held
was on Tom's side only, for Tom was conscious,

and the girl was not. A step and a voice at
the door promised relief, but in effect made
matters serious.

Azubah,' cried a young lady, entering
suddenly, ' how dare you try to go away like
this without letting me know of it ? ' The newcomer
kissed the girl exuberantly, and made a
sweeping curtsey to Tom, who blushed fierily
and fidgeted with his hands and feet. It was
noticeable that until the entrance of this new
figure the farmer's daughter had worn a look
of pretty refinement and delicacy ; but in the
radiance of the new-comer, and by contrast
with her exquisite finery, the girl's prettiness
dwindled into plainness, her refinement
took an immediate rusticity, and her dress
looked poor. Nobody would have said that
the new-comer was over-dressed, but everything
she wore was rich and fashionable, and
she herself had the art of wearing clothes to
perfection, and she moved and looked like a

princess — like a princess in a tale, that is, and
not absolutely like the real thing, which is
sometimes (treasonable as it may sound to say
it) dowdy.

I wrote to you, Miss Lordship,' said the
farmer's daughter, ' and sent the letter to the
post an hour ago.'

You are a wicked girl,' returned Miss
Lording, kissing her again vehemently. 'And
as for you, Mr. Moore,' turning to the farmer,
I think you most unkind to allow Azubah to
go away without saying good-bye to me.'

'Now come, Miss Lording,' said Moore, with
a jocose and waggish air, ' you ought to know
better than to say that. You know what sort
of a life you lead your father, a-riding roughshod
over all his orders, and I know what sort
of life my girl leads me. When I'm as dead as
paternal authority is, I shall be ripe for
burying.'

'Here is another criminal,' Miss Lording

said, turning severely towards Tom. ' You
might have told me, Mr. Carroll.'

Like yourself. Miss Lording,' said Tom, ' I
only learned the news this afternoon. I have
just arrived from town.'

Where are you going, Azubah ? ' asked
the young lady.

We're all going up to London, miss,' said
the farmer, ' and Azubah will doubtless write
to say, when we're settled, where we are. But
here's the missis, and the cart's waiting, and it's
good-bye all round.'

He shook hands with overdone bustle, and
flourished his hat at the door behind his departing
wife and daughter, leaving his guests behind
him. Perhaps in spite of the gaiety of his
manner he was aware of something in his eyes
which might have told how the old farmer felt
on uprooting himself from the soil on which his
yeoman ancestors had grown and flourished.
The latest comer followed, holding up her skirts

from the dusty floor and the bedraggled yard ;
and Tom, hat in hand, went after. The farmer
bustled the women into the dog-cart, mounted
in turn, took the reins, and drove off. His wife
and daughter, who faced backward on the old
place they were leaving, began to cry, and to
wave pocket-handkerchiefs in token of farewell.
Miss Lording and Tom responded, and when
the cart had passed the corner of the lane the
lady turned to her carriage, which stood at the
farmyard gate, in charge of an old coachman of
extremely grave and responsible aspect. In
place of ascending, as Tom expected, she turned
back again.

I am sorry,' she said, ' to have interrupted
your leave-taking, Mr. Carroll, but,' lie added,
with a shrug of the shoulders and a dazzling
smile, ' the door was open, and it was not my
fault.'

'Don't mock me always,' Tom besought
her, miserably.

She laughed outright and clapped her
hands.

'You looked deliciously sentimental, Mr.
Carroll. Is that a friend of yours? Who is
he ? He looks odd and attractive, and as if he
were somebody.'

My friend Baretti, the artist,' said Tom.

Baretti ! ' she answered. ' Was it he who
painted Saturn ? " Deep in the shady sadness
of a vale." Oh, Tom, I am sorry I teased
you ! And you always do know such nice
people. Bring him here.'

Tom bowed delightedly, and ran after
Baretti.

I want to introduce you to Miss Lording,
Baretti,' he said when he came up with him.
She wants to know you. Your Academy picture
impressed her greatly.'

They returned together, and the little artist
being presented, the queenly young lady said
many pleasant things to him, and finally drove

away, leaving the two young men standing in
the lane with the mist closing about them, and
feeling very much as if a summer sun had suddenly
vanished from the skies, carrying all his
warmth and brightness with him.

Carroll,' said the painter a minute later, in
his vehement Italian way, ' I have beheld my
ideal of all feminine grace and beauty. What
splendour ! what grace ! what charm ! '

Yes,' said Tom, in an oddly grudging way.
She's very pretty, isn't she ? '

Gran Dio I ' cried the painter, casting his
arms wildly upwards. ' He professes to have a
soul, and he calls that vision of beauty — very
pretty ! '

CHAPTEE IV.

Mr. C.iRROLL the elder and Mr. Carroll the
younger sat together that evening after dinner.
Baretti had retired ostensibly to write letters,
but really with no other object than to leave
father and son alone to talk over any matters
they might have in mind after a separation of
a month or two.

And what are you doing with yourself
in London, Tom ? ' asked the father, sipping at
his wine.

'Fiddling,' said Tom, lightly, 'painting,
writing.'

Things have changed since my day,' said
Mr. Carroll, not without a tinge of sorrow in
his tones. ' The occupations of which you

speak are now the recognised relaxations of a
gentleman. I suppose the change is a part of
that progress of which we hear so much, and
though I am far from admiring it, I can see it
is far beyond individual control. You belong
to your new generation and I belong to my
old one, and we shall not convince each other.'
He sighed complacently, and drawing a gold
snuff-box from his pocket, tapped it, opened
it, closed it again, and put it back without
using it. This was a habit with him. It
probably comforted him with some old-world
notions of a time when gentlemen had distinctive
little customs of their own, which had not
descended to the lower classes. ' There are
some practices,' he resumed, ' which are likely
to be conserved even in these days of social
decadence. And — apropos,' he added with a
smile, 'when do you think of getting married?'
Somewhat to the elder man's surprise the
younger one blushed at this query.

I'm glad you've mentioned that subject,
father,' said Tom with a smiling embarrassment.


Aha ! ' said Mr. Carroll with stately
geniality. ' Who is the lady ? '

'Well,' said Tom, blushing more deeply,
I have seen a good deal of her m town, and
we have known each other a long time, and —
it's Miss Lording. I haven't said a word about
it until now, but '

You think you understand each other ? '
asked the whither.

No,' cried Tom. ' I don't think lie dislikes
me — but *

Miss Lording,' said Mr. Carroll, producing
the gold snuff-box again and going once more
through his pretence of preparation. ' Miss
Lording is a young lady who would ornament
any sphere and do credit to any household.
She is handsome, well-bred, well-connected,
and well to do.' Tom's diffidence did not

extend itself to his father, and the elder man's
estimate of Miss Lording as his son's future
wife was in a second loftier than any opinion
of her he had previously held. When anything
or person became in any way an appanage
to the splendours of Thomas Carroll the
elder, it was beautified at once by the halo
which to his own eyes always dwelt upon him.
I am growing a little tired,' he continued, ' of
my duties as justice of the peace, and when you
are married and settled down I shall be glad to
see you succeeding to your father's functions.
I have fulfilled that duty now for a quarter of
a century, not altogether without credit.'

I am glad to have your approval,' said
Tom, bashfully. It was difficult as yet to talk
even to his father on such a matter.

Your mention of that topic leads me,' said
Mr. Carroll, ' to a subject of some importance
which affects myself When I asked you to
bring down your artistic friend, I did so with

a purpose. You spoke very highly of him,
and I am told that in regard to such matters
your judgment is to be trusted. When a
gentleman undertakes a public duty he does
not look for a reward, but it is possible that
either by length of service or by the exercise
of an unusual ability he may secure some
recognition. I have received a letter signed
on behalf of my colleagues on the Bench by
Lord Bellamy. In that letter I am informed
that at a recent meeting of the county justices
it was unanimously resolved — unanimously
resolved — to invite me to sit for my portrait
to any artist of my choice. It is proposed to
preserve the picture,' he added with composed
magnificence, 'in the Shire Hall itself. The
act, as you will observe, is spontaneous, and I
will not disguise the fact that it is of a nature
calculated to gratify me.'

Assuredly,' said Tom ; ' a very high compliment
indeed.' He was not quite as well

VOL. I. G

pleased with the news as if it had come at
another moment.

Your friend Baretti is thoroughly competent
to the task ? ' inquired Mr. Carroll.

Competent ! ' cried Tom. And he began
to praise Baretti much beyond his merits,
which were great. His father being willing,
the enthusiast ran to his friend's room and
brought him downstairs. Baretti began at once
to regard Mr. Carroll with a critical and observant
eye, and to move about him so as to
get various views of him, insomuch that the
subject began to think the artist disrespectful.

I have never found time to devote myself
to the study of the fine arts,' said Mr. Carroll,
by-and-by, ' although I am not one of those
who regard a knowledge of the minutiae of
those pursuits as being unworthy of a gentleman.
But my interest, although it has found
but a casual expression, has been consistent,
and I have often thought that when one calls

to mind the gratification it affords to future
generations to look upon the lineaments of
one who has been esteemed in his day and
generation, one is tempted to invest the
portrait-painter with an almost factitious importance,
and to identify him with his theme.'

Yes,' said Tom, with a laugh, ' one may
say more than that sometimes. Look at that
glorious collection of portraits of old nobodies
at the Musee Plan tin. I dare say somebody
knows their histories, but if Rubens hadn't
painted them nobody would have cared to
know whether they had lived or died.' He
had said all this in one eager burst, before he
had time to think that it was not quite
complimentary to his father. 'You must do
your best to immortalise my father, Baretti,'
he added, uncomfortably.

This view of the case was new to Mr.
Carroll, but it was his habit to ignore things
which seemed to work against his own cong
2

mentions of himself. He looked at Tom with
an allowing smile, but gave no further expression
to his thoughts. People frequently-had
opinions of that sort, and it was scarcely
worth while to interrupt them. He put the
finger-tips of both hands together, and addressed
Baretti, as if unconscious of the interruption.

It is unfortunate that our hist of reliable
portraits of eminent men is so small. We
have, for instance, no reliable representation
of the greatest of English poets. And when
one reflects that it was within the power of
any inconsiderable number of inconsiderable
people to offer to him such a requisition as
that of which I am the honoured recipient,
one is the more regretful and the more surprised.'
Mr. Carroll warmed with this theme,
and continued : ' What would we give for a
portrait of King Solomon, a reliable likeness
of Alexander, of Bruce, or of Alfred the
Great ? ' Nobody offering to appraise the

value of these lost blessings, he paused awhile,
and then, rising from his seat, unlocked a
drawer and took from it Lord Bellamy's letter.
He put up his gold eye-glasses and read it
through, holding it at arm's-length ; then, folding
it, he resumed his seat, and, tapping the
paper against the eye-glasses, and gazing
serenely at the fire, he said, ' I shall certainly
accede to the request of my fellow-justices.*

The talk drifted, and no further allusion
was made to Tom's matrimonial prospects.
The young fellow, who was not much of an
egotist, and never very disposed to be exigent
about his own affairs, felt yet a little hurt at
the fashion in which his father had shelved the
theme. An only son's marriage might have
seemed, he thought, at least as interesting as
even the flattering request of the county
justices. Tom went to bed a little depressed
and disheartened, but the topic near his heart
found a renewal next morning.

Breakfast was just over. Mr. Carroll was
reading the ' Times.' Tom was standing at the
fire, and Baretti was in another room, setting
up an easel and generally preparing for the
beginning of the new commission, when a
knock sounded on the door of the breakfast-room.
Tom called, ' Come in,' and a servant
entered, bearing a card upon a salver.

'Show Mr. Lording this way, Johnson,*
said Mr. Carroll. ' Your arrival is auspicious,
Lording.'

I am glad to hear it,' said the new-comer.
He threw back a pair of broad shoulders and
showed a set of white teeth as he laughed.
'Polly saw Master Tom yesterday, and I've
just come round to see him. How's London,
Tom ? And how's the magnum opus the
Opera? And why is my arrival auspicious,
Carroll? Eh?'

There was nothing surprisingly comic in
this speech, but the speaker laughed so heartily

after it that lie might have uttered the happiest
of ions mots and been less pleased.

Sit down,' said Mr. Carroll, ' and I will tell
you.'

Gad ! ' said the visitor, sitting down, ' you
look as solemn as if Calcraft wouldn't act, and
they wanted me to play the part of sheriff
in good earnest ! What's the matter ? '

It's scarcely so terrible as that,' said Tom,
who felt sure of the father, at least, whatever
the daughter's opinions might prove to be.

The fact is. Lording,' said Mr. Carroll,
addressing himself to his visitor with a ponderous
gravity, ' Tom and I were last night discussing
a matter of the utmost moment to his
welfare. I had asked him — without any expectation
of a definite answer — whether he
had as yet any ideas upon the marriage
question. To my surprise, he mentioned your
daughter.'

Eh ? ' said the old gentleman. ' Why,

she's a baby ! And you're no more than a
boy, Tom ! '

I am five-and-twenty,' said Tom defensively.


Then, by Jove ! ' said Lording, ' she's
more than nineteen, for you weren't six when
she was born. Gad, how time flies! eh,
Carroll?'

Mr. Carroll regarded his guest with an eye
which seemed to convey a tolerant rebuke to
flippancy.

I should have approached you with more
ceremony ' he began.

Ceremony be hanged ! ' cried Lording.
I never was more surprised in my life. But
if Tom wants the girl to marry him he must
ask her. And if she will, she must ; and if
she won't, it's of no use to ask me to do anything.
And I wish you luck, my lad, and I
hope, if the little girl says yes, that you'll be
happy.'

'The match would meet with your goodwill
? ' inquired Mr. Carroll.

Seriously,' said the guest, with a visage
suddenly grown solemn, ' I am pleased and
proud.' He laughed a second later. 'What
sort of luck you may have — atom, my lad —
I can't even guess. But I dare say, you rascal,
you know all about that already. Eh ? '

Indeed, sir ! ' Tom began in tones of
protest.

'You don't?' cried Miss Lording's father.
Gad, sir, your old dad and I knew our way
about a little better than you youngsters seem
to do. Didn't we, Carroll .^ ' He threw back
his square grey head and his big shoulders,
and laughed prodigiously, and made a motion
to dig Mr. Carroll in the ribs.

I am happy,' said that gentleman, evading
Lording's fingers, and speaking with much
gravity of manner, ' that the proposal meets
with your approval.'

Well,' said the guest, beaming, ' it's a
matter for Polly to settle, I suppose, and if she
says yes, I don't see who's to prevent it.'

There was a knock at the door. ' Come in,'
cried Tom. 'My friend Baretti, Mr. Lording.'

Good Lord ! ' cried the old gentleman,
with another great laugh. ' Ahsit omen I Ahsit
omen I Glad to meet you, Mr. Baretti. My
daughter spoke of having met you with my
friend Tom here, and I promised myself the
pleasure of making your acquaintance. I'm
a plain countryman, Mr. Baretti, of the old
school. I don't know much about art, but I
have the sense to reverence, even where I
haven't the brains to understand. My daughter
is a judge of that sort of thing, and speaks of
you in such terms, sir, that I am proud to meet
you.'

He kept the artist's hand in his during the
whole of this address, and when he had
finished he laughed with much heartiness,

though what (except his own high spirits) he
had to laugh at what was not obvious.

Mr. Baretti/ said the master of the house,
has been so good as to consent to paint my
portrait.'

I did not know said the ItaHan, ' that
you were engaged. I came to say that I was
ready.'

You don't mind my looking on ? ' asked
Lording, with belike eagerness. ' I've never
seen anybody painting except my daughter.
I suppose, now,' he asked, ' you paint in oils,
don't you ? '

In this case,' said the artist, ' yes.'

Is this the picture for the Shire Hall ? '
asked Lording.

'The picture for the Shire Hall,' assented
Mr. Carroll, with tranquil majesty. ' The
present,' he added, ' is the only time at our
disposal. We will begin now, Mr. Baretti, if
you please.'

Mr. Carroll, being marshalled by his three
attendants to the room assigned, was set in a
proper light, and being bidden to turn his
head a little in such a way, and to lower his
chin a little in such a way, to fold his hands
in such a manner, and to settle his shoulders
in such another manner, was a spectacle the
like of which, for lordly condescension and
regal obedience, is not often to be seen. The
little Italian prowled around him with stealthy
step and watchful eye, taking note of his
proportions and his lines, and looked so much
at the moment like some velvet beast of prey
about to spring that Mr. Carroll experienced
uncomfortable sensations.

Is not the canvas rather small ? ' inquired
the sitter.

'All the portraits in the Shire Hall are
kit-cats,' answered Tom. ' This is the same
size.'

Kit-cats ! ' said Mr. Carroll, as if he tasted

the word and disapproved of its flavour ; ' what
is meant by kit-cats ? '

Sit still, if you please cried the painter.
Now,' a moment later, ' you can move as
much as you like.'

The sitter was silent, if only from sheer
amazement. A minute or two later he
laughed.

You gentlemen of the brush,' he said,
'have something of a loyal way with you
when at work.'

My sitters have told me that before,' said
Baretti. The rebuke passed over his head.
Mr. Carroll began to dislike the little man and
his ways.

Lording looked on with great interest whilst
Baretti painted, and Tom bore himself as well
as he could, though he felt a little sore at the
neglect of his affairs. In about two hours'
time Baretti, who painted with great rapidity,
had upon the canvas a foggy semblance of his

sitter s form and features, with a sort of mud
halo about the head.

That will do for to-day,' he said, throwing
down his brushes and stretching himself. * The
fire is out.'

Mr. Carroll rose solemnly and inspected
the work. *Do you detect a likeness, Lording? '
he asked doubtfully.

It's wonderful,' said Lording, ' really wonderful
! ' He turned to Baretti with almost
an air of reverence : ' My girl paints very
pretty in water-colours,' he said, ' but I never
saw anyone paint in oils before. It's really
very remarkable — very remarkable ! '

You set me at liberty for the rest of the
day, Mr. Baretti ? ' demanded Mr. Carroll stiffly.

Yes,' said the little painter, languidly ;
while the fire is alight I work. When it goes
out I have done. I could not do anything
more to-day even at a portrait.'

Why men at a portrait ? ' asked Lording.

Oh,' said the Httle man, lighting a cigar,
a portrait is not often so — what is your word ?
so demanding ? — no — that will not do — a
portrait does not often draw you on like a
picture of your own choosing. You can put
it away without sorrow, and you can work at
it without joy.'

This as relating to portraits in general
might be true enough, but jMr. Carroll began
to have the meanest opinion of the painter's
intellect.

Well,' cried Lording, with another of his
great laughs at the end of the statement, * I've
a ride before me, and something to do when
I get home. Eh, Tom ? Ha-ha-ha ! You
come over this afternoon, Tom, will you?
Eh ? Ha-ha-ha-ha ! Good-morning, Tom !
Good-morning, Carroll ! Good-morning, Mr.
Baretti ! I'm very proud to have made your
acquaintance, sir. See you this afternoon,
Tom. Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha ! '

He went out in a storm of merriment and
Mr. Carroll retired with him, leaving Tom and
Baretti together. Tom, with a flutter at his
breast, went out of the room to avoid the
necessity for talking, and the painter sat still
for a time and smoked. But by-and-by he
displaced the canvas from which Mr. Carroll's
ghostly presentment stared at him, and set
upon the easel a small panel on which he
began to sketch with a bit of charcoal, touching
here and there with such a wandering
hand than an onlooker might have been
puzzled to guess the meaning of the lines.
But in a few minutes these lines all began to
grow together, and in a few minutes more they
resulted in a beautiful feminine face. The
artist having regarded it attentively took up
a duster, rubbed out the drawing, and began
again. This time the beautiful feminine face
came out as Miss Mary Lording's undoubted
image, and the painter, resuming his seat,

smoked tranquilly as lie regarded it with half-slight,
meditative eyes.

About five milites later a step sounded in
the corridor, and a hand was laid upon the
handle of the door. The painter rose and
rubbed the beautiful feminine face from the
panel, almost with a feeling of detected guilt.
He would have been troubled to guess why he
had destroyed the drawing, and perhaps still
more troubled to say why he felt guilty, but
the face had been haunting him oddly ever
since he had seen it, and was present in his
mind ^vith a curiously irresistible demand to be
reproduced in visible form.

The intruder was the master of the house,
and he, after one questioning look about the
room, bowed in silence and retired. Baretti
listened to his footsteps as they travelled
towards Tom's chamber, which was in the
same corridor, and then began to sketch anew.
The same face came out upon the panel, and

VOL. I. II

once more he dusted it away, and this time
with a look of resolution, as if he had done
with the theme ; he put away the panel and
set up the damp-gleaming ghostly presentation
of his host again. Then he walked restlessly
about the room, and next sat down at the table
and began to sketch the view from the window
; but his thoughts strayed off, and, before
he knew it, there was a pretty hat in outline on
the paper, and below the hat a charming face
with an escaping curl or two upon the forehead
Mary Lording to the life again. He tore the
paper with an exclamation of impatience and
Jest the room.

Now this might mean a good deal or it
might mean nothing — nothing, that is, but an
artistic fancy and an artistic preoccupation.
Ardent young artists are wont to be haunted
by shapes of beauty, and Baretti was likelier
to be impressed by form and colour than
another man. But artists are a good deal

hardened, too, in the matter of feminine
charms, which, in their case, strike the eye
with singular vividness, but leave the heart
untouched ; and if a painter fell in love withall
the owners of the beautiful faces that dwell
in his memory and ask to be painted, he would
have his hands full. Yet the little Italian
went about perturbed in spirit, and thought
more of Mary Lor ding's face than was good
for him.

Tom left him alone after luncheon, with no
explanation of his errand, and Baretti made
more sketches of random themes. The face
crept into them all, and at last he resigned
himself to the pleasure it gave him. His hand
became so familiar with it, and his memory
preserved it go clearly, that he drew it in all
the varying expressions he had seen upon it
until he began to long to give it colour, and
yielded to the longing. Before twilight fell he
had painted a delicate little picture in water

2

colour, slight, but very true and fine, and after
staring at this until he could see it no longer,
he put it away in his portmanteau and burned
all the pencil sketches he had made.

CHAPTER Y.

Papa Lording, riding home in the brisk air
and sunlight, turned over in his mind the
proposal young Carroll had made for his
daughter's hand. He vas a bluff and hearty-man
of a type common amongst English
country gentlemen ; had a rare good heart, a
magnificent digestion, and as much mental
polish as the fibre of which he was made would
carry. He sucked marrow of mirth and
laughter out of things at which most people
do not even smile, and this was not because he
was a humorist, but because his nature was of
that downright sunlit sort which is probably
only to be found among Englishmen. He had
not the remotest idea as he rode that he was

going to be involved in a love story at all out
of the common. Here was a handsome young
fellow, well connected and well-to-do, who had
taken a liking in the ordinary fashion to a
charming young woman of nineteen, also well
connected and well-to-do. The pair would
probably be married, and papa Lording would
very well have liked, in the manner of his own
earlier day, to have danced at the wedding.

The old gentleman confessed to himself, ashe
had confessed to the suitor an hour or two
before, that he was without voice in the
matter. His daughter drove him, and if it
were only with a peacock's feather for whip,
and a thread of silk for rein, he was none the
less bound to go the way she wanted.

At the sound of hoof-beats in the avenue,
Miss Lording ran from the room in which she
sat into the hall, and there awaited her father.
Rival charms are rarely so equally balanced
that some girl or other has not the right to be

called the belle of her part of the country, or
the beauty of her county. Miss Lording had
that right, and was probably aware of it. She
was undeniably English in style (the loveliest
style, as I make bold to believe, in the world) ;
she had lovely eyes, a face of charming contour
and expression, a wealth of hair of fine
texture and glossy hue (her own), and a figure-neither
too ripe nor too fragile, too tall nor too
dumpy. Her vivacity of spirit lit up those
beautiful eyes with a constant variety of expression,
and set that charming figure ina
constantly varied and delicately graduated
series of postures, so that she avoided all
seeming of monotony without running into
that opposing sin of jerkiness which is the
snare of many lively young ladies, who,
without it, might be charming.

Her father, having dismounted, surrendered
his horse 'and ran up the stone steps which led
to the hall. His genial British face and genial

British heart were alike aglow, and alike a
little tenderer than common. There was not
much romance in the good old gentleman's
nature, but the love stories of the young sometimes
awaken memories in the minds of the
middle-aged, and he had been thinking on his
ride, with unwonted warmth and gentleness, of
the days of his own youth, when he himself
went a-courting. So the kiss which commonly
celebrated his return from an absence of whatever
brevity was multiplied into three, one for
the dimple on each ripe cheek, and one for the
charming lips between them.

Polly,' said the old gentleman, with twinkling
eyes, ' I have brought a little present
for you.'

Yes ! ' said the young lady, 'what is it? '
Her father, with one arm round her waist, led
her to the room she had quitted a moment
before, and there turning round faced her
squarely. ' What is the matter, papa ? ' she

asked. ' Why do you look at me so
oddly?'

Well,' said papa, ' the present I have to
offer you (and it isn't mine) is an article Which
is supposed by good judges to be worth a great
deal. I have seen such a thing described in
print as a perfect mine of jewels. I've been
told that it's a sort of talisman to make a good
girl happy all her life long, provided that she
doesn't lose it. I've actually known one or
two cases in which it has really done as much.
But, all the same, I'm not quite certain whether
you'll care to have it.'

You mustn't be a ridiculous old gentleman,'
said his daughter. ' What is it, dear ? '

Perhaps in a general way she guessed the
nature of the proffered gift, for she blushed
slightly.

It's a young man's heart, my daring,' said
the old fellow, ' warranted sound and whole,
and rising live-and-twenty.'

Miss Lording began to take a close and
serious interest in the pattern of papa's watch-chain.


Has the young man a tongue as well asa
heart, papa ? ' she asked. ' And should I
know his face if I saw it ? '

You'll see it this afternoon,' said the old
gentleman, ' and then you can judge for yourself

Am I to say " Yes" or " No" at once ? ' she
asked, looking up at him saucily. ' Or may I
wait until I see the heart's owner ? '

You had better wait,' he said, patting her
cheeks affectionately. His voice was husky at
that moment, for he saw quite suddenly a
house that looked most mournful and empty,
and himself going about it, solitary. The girl
answered to his thoughts.

Send the young man's heart back again,
papa. It is no honest gift, but a bait.'

Don't you ask to know whose it is ? ' he
demanded.

Young men don't give their hearts away
for nothing,' said Miss Lording, still busy with
her father's watch-chain. ' The young man
has designs, and I have penetration enough to
guess them. Send the wicked present back
again, papa. I am happy without it.'

Don't you ask to know whose it is ? ' he
asked again.

Sto,' she said, in a tone of mighty indifference,
and wound the watch-chain about
one of her white fingers with an air of
elaborate interest.

Very well, my dear,' said the old boy
with a sigh. 'If it isn't to-day it will be
tomorrow. The poor lad will be here this
afternoon to take his present back again — a
little cracked, I'm afraid.'

Who is it, papa ? ' she asked.

I thought you didn't want to know, you
rogue ! ' cried her father with a laugh.

'But I have a right to know, sir, if I

choose,' she answered, with a pretty mock
defiance.

It's young Carroll,' said her father. ' I
shall have to give you away to somebody some
day, and I could part with you to him as
willingly as to anybody.' The girl was blushing,
and even trembling a little, by this time.
But if it's settled, and you won't have anything
to say to him ' Some slight change

in her posture, something in the droop of the
head, perhaps, or something in the nervous
action of the fingers toying with the watch-chain,
stopped him. ' Is it '' Yes " or " No," my
dear ? ' he asked, putting an arm about her neck.

I don't know, papa,' murmured the young
lady.

Well, well,' said the old gentleman, ' think
it over, my dear, and decide for your own
happiness.' He kissed her and left her a little
sadly, feeling somewhat like a criminal whose
repeal has been granted and snatched away

again. ' These youngsters,' lie said to liiniself,
with half a sigh and half a laugh, ' come gaily
enough to steal an old man's treasure. But
Tom's a good lad — a o-ood lad.'

Girls are known to be quick at sounding
the affections of young people of the opposite
sex when the affections concern themselves, and
it is likely that Miss Lording was not very
surprised at hearing Tom Carroll's name at the
end of her father's little parable. There was
nothing to dislike in the young man. He was
tall and straight, and handsome and well-bred.
He was reputed for a good-hearted fellow, and
he was popular with all sorts and conditions of
men. It would not be difficult to like him
very much.

Now, this is not the language of ardent
passion, but (Juliet and all manner of poetic
precedents to the contrary notwithstanding)
ardent passion is not altogether a pretty thing
in a young woman to begin with. There are

plenty of exceptions, of course, but the ordinary
marriageable love of the ordinary marriageable
young Englishwoman begins with liking and
goes on in tranquil growth, finding deep root
without the influence of storm, and learning to
flourish, fair and calm and broad, in a tolerably
equable temperature.

Whether his daughter were as yet in love
with Tom Carroll or not, whether she simply
liked him, or had already passed over the
boundary line between liking and loving, was
a problem too delicate for a man of papa
Fording's blunt discernment to solve. But he
felt pretty sure that the girl would say ' Yes '
to Tom's question, and he was lonely in
anticipation. The time seemed to drag with
him until the lover came. Tom Carroll's heart
beat higher than usual as he rode along the
trim avenue, and surrendered his horse at the
door. The old boy received him with more
than common cordiality.

I know nothing about it, Tom,' he said,
but you have my best wishes. I don't
authorise you to tell her so. mind, for she
must make her own choice quite freely.'

'I understand you perfectly, sir,' said the
youngster, a little proudly. ' I don't think I
should care to marry any woman, however
dearly — however highly I might esteem her,
unless she took me of her own free will.'

Quite right, Tom,' said the other ; ' a very
proper spirit. But don't you think you'd
rather — have it over ? '

Why, yes, sii',' said Tom, with a dry little
laugh, ' I should like to know.'

Come this way,' said Lording, and Tom
followed into a small, cheerfully-furnished
sitting-room, in which Mary sat alone, making
busy pretence of doing something with a
needle. ' Tom has ridden over, my dear,'
said her father, with a most transparent
pretence of having nothing on his mind.

'Hidden over to have a look at us. I'll just

leave

and-leave

him here for a minute whilst I go

He had nc excuse ready, and therefore
slid away without one, leaving the young
people together.

Have you deserted your friend, Signor
Baretti, Mr. Carroll ? ' asked the young lady.

'Yes,' said Tom, hurriedly plunging m
medias res. 'I have come over with a very
special object. I do not know whether your
father has spoken of it.'

A special object ? ' said the young lady,
surveying her labours with a head set sideways,
and an air of exasperating want of interest in
his communication.

I can't hope to tell you how n'luch in
earnest I am,' said Tom, ' or how much depends
to me upon this interview' He paused and
looked at her. She was surveying her needlework
again with eyes of elaborate innocence,

and he felt discouraged. ' I am here he went
on desperately, ' to ask you to be my wife.'

Miss Lording bent over the elegant trifle
upon lier lap and gave it a yet closer scrutiny.
Tom waited, and she said nothing. The silence
began to grow extremely awkward. Some
young men in an enterprise of this kind are
easily abashed, and Tom Carroll was one of
them. The longer the silence continued the
harder it was to break it, and he felt cold and
miserable.

Have you no answer for me ? ' he said at
last.

I don't know,' said the young lady demurely,
' until — I am asked.'

Tom Carroll marched across the little room,
planted a chair by her side, and sat down in it
with an air of resolve.

Will you ? ' he asked in a whisper — ^ will
you be my wife ? '

Don't you think, Mr. Carroll,' she answered,

VCL. I. I

picking up the bit of needlework to examine
it more closely, ' don't you think that this is a
little — precipitate ? '

Why,' cried Tom, ' we have known each
other all our lives ! *

'I have not had any experience in such
matters,' said the young lady, 'but I have
always understood that there were preliminaries
to a question of that sort.'

'Oh,' said the youngster, 'don't jest with
me. Miss Lording ! Don't laugh at me ! It is
death to me if it is sport to you.' He took the
needlework trifle from her and possessed himself
of her hands. ' Tell me,' he murmured.

What ? ' demanded the disingenuous young
woman, with averted countenance.

Tell me you love me.'

For shame, Mr. Carroll, to ask a poor girl
to s;:y such things!'

Will you be my wife ? ' said Tom, growing
bold' r every moment.

I don't know,' she answered.

You don't know how I love you,' said the
courtier, with a hand in each of his.

No,' she said, ' that is true. I have never
been told.'

'Shall I tell you?' said he.

Thank you,' she answered, with infinite
dry demureness, ' I should like to hear it very
much.'

I can't,' said Tom. ' There are no words
for it. I love you with all my heart and soul
but that seems to say nothing. I think,'
he went on, blushing and stammering, ' that
you are the most beautiful woman in the
world.'

That is very nice of you,' said Miss
Lording, tranquilly. She was so exasperating
that, though he never knew how it came about,
Tom took her in his arms and kissed her over
and over again. Perhaps that was the true
way with her, and in any case (even if it were
I 2

not that masterly method of wooing that won
her) it was then that she was won.

For shame, Mr. Carroll ! ' she cried, with
face and neck and ears all rosy with blushes ;
'it is well to have a giant's strength, but
tyrannous to use it like a giant. Let me go.'

Not until you promise,' cried the lover.
Will you be my wife ? '

'If you insist upon it,' said the young
lady. ' But a promise under compulsion is no
promise.'

Tom released her, and dropped upon one
knee before her like a wooer of old days.

Will you promise now ? ' She bent over
him with mirth and tenderness.

Do you wish it very much ? ' she asked.

With all my soul,' he answered, taking her
hands again. ' Will you promise ? '

You will be good ? ' she demanded.

As gold,' said the young man.

Then release me.' He dropped her hands,

still kneeling before lier, and she took a step
backward. ' I promise,' she said, and, whisking
the door open, she skimmed from the room
like a swallow, leaving her lover with hands
that grasped at air. But the young fellow
rose with a glad heart and went in search of
his divinity's father.

What news, Tom ? ' the old fellow asked.

She accepts me, sir,' said Tom, blushing,
but she has run away.'

No compunction in your heart, Tom ? '
said the father, shaking hands with him. 'No
remorse for robbing an old fellow of his only
treasure, and leaving him lonely ? Eh ? '

You set a bad example, sir, some thirty
years ago,' said Tom. Lording exploded in
one of his great ringing laughs, but there were
tears in his eyes all the same which were not
altogether born of laughter.

She's a good girl, Tom,' he said, ' though
I say it. A good girl. And if she's as good

a wife as she is a daughter, you'll have a
treasure. But one word, my lad. You
mustn't run away with her yet awhile. I
must have time to get used to it, and to think
it over. Now, Tom, you've done your business
— ride away, and tell your father. Yes ;
I turn you out of doors, like a wicked father
in a novel. Go away, lad, and tell the old
fellow to get ready to lose his son, whilst the
other old fellow gets ready to lose his daughter.
You'll see her tomorrow. She wants to see
your friend painting, and I promise to bring
her over. Good-afternoon, lad, and God bless
you ! '

Tom went unwillingly, but he went.
Pleasant thoughts were his companions ashe
rode homewards. Arrived, he told his
father of the prosperity of his suit, and
submitted to a lengthy dissertation on the
responsibilities of married life. After dinner
he sat with Baretti in the room set apart as a

temporary studio, and listened pleased to the
little man's animated chatter. There was a
fire at one end of the room, and the Italian
stood rubbing his hands over it, cigar in mouth,
and basking in the cheerful glow.

This is better than St. James's Park,
Carroll,' he said at last. Tom's outer ear
caught this statement, but his mind was deaf
to its meaning. He was thinking of Mary,
and he answered mechanically —

Yes. I suppose it is more comfortable.'

Ah, my friend,' said Baretti, who was
liable to be run away with whenever he
mounted this theme, ' it was not that I was
hungry, and had no food. It was not that I
was cold, and had no fire. But it is terrible
to despair, and I despaired when I met you.
There is nothing I have in the world, there is
nothing I ever shall have which I do not owe,
and shall not owe to you.'

Look here, Baretti,' said Tom ; ' once for

all, I won't have it. It was a bargain between
us that that time should be forgotten.'

It shall be forgotten,' cried Baretti, fierily,
when I grow to be a hound and a scoundrel.
It shall be forgotten when I lie and rot in my
dishonourable grave. But not an hour before.
And I have no way to repay you. You want
for nothing. There is nothing I can do for
you.'

Stupidest of men !' said Tom ; 'you have
repaid what I lent you, and there is an end
of it.'

What did you lend me ? ' cried the artist,
flinging his cigar into the fire. ' A handful of
dirty money which you did not want, and
which was nothing to you because you did not
want it? And what beside? Nothing but
hope when I despaired ; nothing but my belief
in men, which I had lost ; nothing but my
power to work, which had left me ! If I am
happy, and can hope again, I owe it to you.

If I reach to fame and prosperity, as I shall,
the fiime and prosperity are yours by right, not
mine. And you want for nothing, and I can
pay you nothing.'

He declaimed every word of this harangue
with vivid passion and superabundant gesture.
There were tears in his dark eyes when he
closed, and he fawned upon Tom almost as an
affectionate dog might have done.

What shall I do for you ? How shall I
pay you ? If you shall come to me one day
and say : '' For my service surrender everything
— Fame, Ambition, Hope, whatever is
dearest to your heart," do you think I would
not do it? You made me, and you own
me.'

All this is madness,' answered Tom.
You don't know how it hurts me to hear you
talk like that. I^Tow, my dear good fellow,
don't say any more.'

I know,' said Baretti, with a curious darkness

clouding his face as he spoke, ' but you
may hive to prove me.'

'Now. there you are on a wrong tack
again,' said Tom. ' I don't doubt you. I only
say that you exaggerate to the highest degree
of absurdity a very simple service. If your
own idiotic, Quixotic pride had not been in
your way, a thousand men would have done as
much for you.'

Aha ! ' cried the little painter, with outstretched
hands, 'but where were the nine
hundred and ninety-nine? It was you who
did it, and you cannot escape from it ; and I
will be grateful, if you were to kill me for it.
I have never,' he added, with a ludicrously
sudden return to the tones of commonplace,
I have never admired that stohdity of character
on which you English pride yourselves.
Ariosto's fable is true. God found one day a
lump of gold, and he wrapt it in lead and cast
it upon the earth, and that was the English

people. And you have been ashamed of the
gold, and proud to show the wretched lead
ever since.' He was in a great heat of scorn
by this time, and flung the moral of his fable
at Tom's head as if it had been a challenge to
mortal combat. But in another second he had
veered to his old manner. ' Why cannot I do
anything for you P '

Well, look here, old man,' said Tom, with
something like an inspiration, ' since I am such
a burthen to your soul, you shall do something
for me. Something I shall value so highly
that even you, seeing how I prize it, shall
admit that we are quits.'

I do not think that,' said Baretti ; ' but
tell me what it is.' There was such a look
upon him as Curtis, his countryman, might
have worn when he leapt into the gulf.

It's nothing mad-brained or heroical,' said
Tom, with an embarrassed laugh. ' I want
you to paint a portrait — that's all.'

Yours ? ' demanded Baretti eagerly.

No, not mine,' said Tom.

'Whose?'

The young fellow returned no direct
answer to this question. He asked in turn:
'You don't know why I went out this afternoon
? '

No,' said Baretti, with a wondering look
at him.

I went out,' said Tom, making a pretence
of lighting his cigar, ' for the express purpose
of making — a proposal of marriage.'

And you made it ? ' cried the painter,
taking him by both arms.

I made it,' said Tom.

And the lady said " Yes," ' cried the little
Italian. ' And it is her portrait that I am to
paint. Thank you! Thank you! That is
kind indeed ! '

'Yes,' said Tom, thawing somewhat at his
companion's fire. 'I want a portrait of the

only woman I ever cared for, painted by the
hand of the dearest friend I have in the
world.'

Ah ! ' said Baretti, vehemently. ' Do you
mean that ? Do you mean. that ? '

Yes,' said Tom, ' I mean it.' And in all
real honesty he had long since begun to love
the little man to whom he had done such a
service.

It shall be,' said the painter, with a beaming
face, ' the dearest pleasure of my life, and
I will paint as I have never painted before. I
will paint like Murillo, like Raphael, like
Titian — I will paint like the master of them
all.' He went striding up and down the room,
and then, suddenly pausing, seized Carroll by
both hands. ' I am forgetting. My dear Carroll,
with all my heart and soul I congratulate
you. I wish you happiness and long life.
Do I know the lady ? '

You have seen her,' said Tom, laughing

and blushing and shaking hands. ' You saw
her yesterday, and I introduced you to her.'

Some new emotion knocked at the painter's
heart, a sensation never felt before, swift and
keen and painful. Carroll, in his pleasant
embarrassment, was not looking at him, and the
change in his face passed unnoticed. Baretti
dragged his hands away from Tom's grasp and
walked the length of the room.

What men you are, you English ! ' he said,
in a tone so curious that it struck the other
strangely. ' You said she was a pretty girl.'
He laughed, and Tom thought the laugh an odd
one. ' A young man is in love. He is not a
common young man, but an artist, and he has
written music that makes me believe he has a
soul. And one day, meeting the goddess of his
dreams, he can turn to a friend who loves him,
and say she is a pretty girl. You are beyond
me. I give you up. I have no understanding
for you.' Then he flashed back into his own

fiery and enthusiastic tones. ' But I will paint
her portrait — the beautiful English girl, in the
freshness and the grace of her young womanhood,
With the face of a kind angel and the
figure of a queen. Ah ! I will paint a
picture.'

I thought it would please you,' said Tom,
simply.

I congratulated you when I did not know,'
said Baretti. ' Give me your hands again.
Both hands. So. I know now, and I congratulate
you again with all my heart and
soul.'

Tom, laughing and blushing again, shook
hands once more, and the theme dropped.
The friends parted early, and the painter in his
own room took out the work of the afternoon
from his portmanteau, and after looking at it
fixedly for a long time, set the edge of the
paper to the light of his candle, and burned it
slowly into ashes.

Carroll lie said softly, in his own tongue,
there is no slave in the world who belongs to
a master as I belong to you. You made me,
and you own me. I am all yours, now, and
till I die.'

CHAPTEE VI.

Mr. Carroll the elder was not a man to put any
light he might have under a bushel, and finding
out by-and-by that it was a creditable sort of
thing (or was so esteemed by those who surrounded
him) to have an artist of Baretti's
capacity on his premises, he took to showing
him a good deal. Mr. Carroll's world heard as
much as enough of Mr. Carroll's portrait, and
the painter sometimes worked with a little court
of county admirers round him. He became
extremely popular with the county ladies, and
might have had his head turned if he had
chosen to believe one twentieth part of the
flattering things they told him.

There are some spiritual maladies which

VOL. I. K

can only be cured by being absolutely un-meddled
with and left out of thought. Grief
and hate and unauthorised love all belong to
this species, and a man or woman who tries
continually to discover how far the malady is
abated or increased is out of the way to a cure.
To examine the passion is to feed its egotistical
wish to be examined and thought about, and so
to nurse its growth. Every passion is in itself
supremely selfish and exigent, and there are
few that cannot be starved into subjection by
the mere coldness of neglect. Poor Baretti
awoke to the conclusion that he was near to
envying and hating his friend, and with all the
desire in the world to escape from that terrible
precipice of wickedness, he. could not resist the
temptation to hover about it, to ask himself
how near he was — how much nearer he might
go without falling over ; how much longer
he could stay at the edge before the heart-vertigo
he dreaded should prompt him to

throw himself headlong. To drop simile and
get back to plain dealing, he examined
himself continually to see whether or not he
were in love with his friend's sweetheart,
and found (as a natural consequence) answers
within himself which became more and more
dangerous to his peace.

Human nature is so hopelessly complex and
contradictory that it is even possible that, but
for Tom Carroll's attachment to Mary, and the
painter's passionate desire to be faithful to his
friend, Baretti might never have seriously fallen
in love with her. He began to dread himself
and to fear an admiration which, but for his
fear of it, might have ended as a score of others
had done before it. He did not begin to hate
his friend, for so much wickedness could not
find room in a heart so filled by simplicity and
loyalty, but he did begin passionately to love
his friend's affianced lover. The thing was
always in his mind, and he began to be very

unhappy, and to be so afraid of loving that by
mere force of contemplation he loved. He was
wounded to begin with, and under constantly
inquisitorial fingers the scratch festered and
grew mortal. At last, there is the truth of the
whole matter, and conveyed in a simile, after
all.

Baretti's portrait of his host was pronounced
a fine work, alike by people who knew and people
who did not know what they were talking
about, and Mary Lording, who had seen the
little man at work, and was more enthusiastic
about his powers than anybody — being guided
in that direction by her sweetheart's opinion,
and going far beyond her leader, after woman's
recognised fashion — was charmed at the idea
of having her portrait painted by so gifted a
personage. The painter himself, in the contemplation
of the task before him, began to
wade in dangerous waters, and in a little while
got washed off his feet altogether and was

abandoned to the tide, on which he sometimes
drifted deliciously, but oftener deliriously, and
oftener still in poignant misery of spirit.

On a lovely autumn day, bright and dry,
and keen with the breath of approaching
winter, the accepted lover and his friend set out
together on foot in the direction of Lording's
house. Baretti's painting tools had been sent
on beforehand, but there had been some little
uncertainty about the day on which the first
sitting should be given, and it was not quite a
sure thing that the lady would be ready to
receive them. Arrived at the house, they
learned that she was somewhere in the grounds,
and Tom, being not merely an accepted lover
but an habitue of the place since boyhood,
went out in search of her, taking his
friend with him. The grounds of Lording's
mansion were varied and extensive, and what
with laurel walks, rhododendron walks, and
walks sunken from the surrounding level to

secure shelter in winter and shade in summer,
there was ample opportunity for a game at
hide-and-seek. In the eagerness of the chase
Tom took the lead, and he was twenty yards in
front of Baretti and at the end of a fine avenue
of beeches, when he turned, and smilingly
beckoned the painter on. The latter quickened
his pace, and was just in time to see the smile
of recognition and welcome which lit up
Mary's face at the sight of her lover.

On the left side of the avenue, approached
by a meandering path between two great trees,
lay a secluded little dell. This dell, being
sheltered by the high foliage of the near trees,
had kept for the most part a look of almost
summer greenness, and the fiery hand of autumn
had only kindled here and there a leaf.
The moss which paved the place was a mere
carpet of live emerald, and interlacing boughs
above the lady's head made a sort of natural
archway. This was the only hour of the day

at this season at which the sun-rays could
pierce the higher leafage, and the whole place
was beautifully dappled with light and shadow.
At the end of the vista revealed by the opening
boughs lay a patch of richly cultured garden,
bright with colour ; and nearer at hand, just
where the arched foliage ended and the garden
began, was a little fountain, whose one lithe and
quivering jet sparkled in the sunlight, much asa
gay melody sparkles on happy ears.

But the most charming feature of this
charming spot was, of course, the girl who
stood in it, smiling and radiant, like the day.
Female loveliness is no doubt lovely in a cotton
print, but when delicate fabrics of exquisite
colour have gone through the hands of an
artist who knows his business, in days when
fashion gives him a chance to be graceful, they
can give beauty an extra charm. The dress
she wore was simple enough to look at, but it;
became her almost subtly. She had been

gathering flowers and ferns, and carried them
in a basket in her gauntleted hands.

There is no disputing in matters of taste,
and there are no doubt thousands of men who,
allowing the girl to have been beautiful, would
have gone by without recognising their ideal.
It was enough for Tom that she was his, and
it was more than enough for Baretti that she
was his also.

Can you give us a sitting ? ' asked Tom
gaily. ' Baretti is here and ready.'

*I am here without doubt,' said Baretti,
but I am not ready.*

No ? ' asked Tom, turning upon him ; ' why
not?'

I want this,' said Baretti sombrely, ' to bea
picture as well as a portrait. And I cannot
begin at once as if I were painting a house.
Can I paint here to-day. Miss Lording ? ' he
asked, ' or shall I carry my things back to
Trench House?'

'There is a room in complete readiness
said Mary, with a half-puzzled look from Tom
to the painter, ' but I thought you said that
you did not want to begin to-day.'

I do not want you to sit to-day,' said the
painter brusquely. ' I want to sketch. I have
an idea. Can I go ? '

Certainly,' said the girl. Tom possessed
himself of the basket, and they walked to the
house together. Baretti did not speak until
he found himself in the room set apart for
him.

I want to be alone, if you please,' he said
then, and began to push his easel about the
room, and to raise and lower the blinds. ' I
do not wish to be disturbed until I have done
what is in my mind. It is now eleven o'clock,
and I can work till half-past four. I shall have
done by then.' He was very gloomy and
quiet about all this, and Mary smiled at his
exaggerated earnestness. Tom stayed a minute

or two to chaff his friend, but, meeting with
no response, he left the room and took away
Mary with him.

Being alone, the painter shut and locked
the door, and taking a small mounted canvas,
set it on the easel, and began to work. For
half an hour his face of gloom grew darker
and darker, and then his changeful nature set
him on a new tack, and he began to work
smilingly. Then in a while he was gloomy
once more, but he worked all the time like a
man possessed by an idea. It was not long
before the idea began to declare itself. By
swift and sure degrees there grew upon the
canvas the figure of a girl who stood in a little
green-floored dell, embraced by surrounding
boughs and bearing in her gloved hands a
basket of tangled ferns and flowers. The
distant garden began to smile in the sun, and
the green flooring of the dell to dapple with
light and shadow.

There was a knock at the door and Tom
Carroll's voice was heard outside.

May I come in ? '

No said the painter, without turning his
head or pausing at his work.

The bell has sounded for luncheon.'

I am not hungry,' said Baretti ; ' I shall
not come to luncheon. Leave me alone.'

Tom retired, and the painter worked away.
The face was merely indicated, and might have
belonged to anybody or nobody, but the rest
of the sketch had already something of a look
of finish. Baretti lit a cigar and rested for a
time, rising now and then to add a touch of
colour here and there. When his cigar was
smoked through, he cast the stump into the
grate and went on again. Not a bristle touched
the canvas without definite intent, and he
worked with prodigious rapidity and certainty,
but with no hurry. The tints grew true, the
eyes and lips began to smile, there came into

the face beneath the magic kisses of the brush
the glance of recognition and welcome he had
seen four hours ago ; the very figure looked as
though it were about to move and to step from
the canvas.

The artist looked at his watch, laid down
his tools, and lit another cigar, pacing up and
down the room as he smoked. Next, he sat
and stared at his work from under gloomy
brows, until he detected a fault somewhere and
rose to amend it, and finding something else
too lightly indicated, put in a masterly stroke
or two of finish, and by these means became
spurred into labour once again. The light was
already growing dangerous to paint by when
he finally laid down his palette and brushes
and rang the bell.

'Tell your mistress and Mr. Carroll that
I am ready,' he said to the servant who answered
this summons. The man retired obediently,
and a minute or two later Mary and

her lover and papa Lording were heard laughing
merrily together upon the stairs. Baretti
stood back from his picture and stared at it
solemnly, with his hands in the pockets of his
velvet jacket and his head drooping slightly
forward, and in that attitude they found him.

Man of ^vhims,' said Tom, ' what is it ?
Mary ! Mr. Lording ! Come here ! Baretti,
you are a worker of miracles I '

The three stood before the work in amazement
and admiration. Its effects were necessarily
broad, but there was no hint of coarseness
in its handing, and the colours were like
nature's own. A rival painter might have
discounted admiration a little, but there was
no rival painter there, and the trio broke into
unmeasured praises. The painter, with his
head still drooping forward and his hands in
his jacket-pockets, accepted then enthusiasm
with an air of almost melodramatic crloom.
He was genuinely unhappy now — more self-distrustful

than ever, with more reason. He
defined Lording's invitation to dinner, and, in
spite of pressure, went away alone to lock himself
in his bedroom at Trench House, and brood
over his own astonishing wickedness and the
charms of his dearest friend's affianced wife.

Baretti,' said Tom, as he sat at table with
Mary and her father, 'is a man of genius,
and, as everybody knows, men of genius have
moods. I suppose he had worked everything
out of himself in that splendid inspiration, and
felt fit for nothing afterwards. Small wonder
if he did.'

His companions took that view of the case
also, and not even the girl, as yet, began to
suspect the truth. But, meantime, the little
man was exceedingly bitter with himself, and
yet, for his soul, he could not resist the ever-returning
vision of the girl's face and figure.
Though he turned it out of mental doors a
thousand times, it came back again, beautiful,

smiling, unconscious. And he had vowed
eternal faith and friendship to the man who
had saved him, and who had an unassailable
claim on all this loveliness. He tried to
soothe himself by the casuistry natural to Ms
position. He could love without wishing to
possess, but his heart cried out in indignation
against that folly. It went through him like a
knife when he thought of her in Tom's arms,
and fancied Tom's kisses on her lips. At least,
he could love and be quiet ; but again, at that
thought, the future seemed to rise before him
like a blank wall. And the more he chafed
and argued, the more his fiery longing grew,
till his southern blood, hot enough by nature,
reached almost to boiling point, and he saw
how dangerous he was growing. You may
guess from what you know already that resolution
was not his strong point. No resolute
man would have gone-under as he did on such
poor compulsion, and if there was anything

save him now it must be something outside
himself.

'After all,' he said, ' to die of thirst in the
desert whilst you watch your friend's only glass
of water is a hard thing no doubt, but it is not
stealing the water.'

He sought whatever safeguard he could
think of. Amongst them was the difference
between Miss Lording's position and his own.
Love her as much as he chose, even if she had
been free, she would not have looked at him.
Then, in face of that reflection, he began to
dream of fame and fortune, and he saw himself
as a new Titian, the acknowledged king of art
in his own day, living in a house like a palace,
and surrounded by social courtiers. But of all
possible safeguards he felt that there was none
like his friendship, and, though his inward
panegyrics on Tom Carroll were more forced
and less natural than they had used to be, he
had recourse to them and magnified Tom's

service, and signified his own chances without
that splendid friend and helper, until he began
to experience a dawning sense of security.
How could he be faithless to such a friend,
even in fancy — even in a dream ?

It was pretty late at night when Tom
knocked at Baretti's door. The painter admitted
him, and shook hands in silence. Tom
was quite radiant and full of high spirits, and
he must needs rally the small man of genius
about his moods.

What a droll fellow you are, Baretti !
To-day, deeper sunk than plummet ever
sounded ; tomorrow soaring sky-high, and
breaking your sublime head against the stars.
But that's the penalty you pay for being a man
of genius, and an Italian. Come into my den,
my lion, and have a quiet smoke and a talk.'

'Very well,' said Baretti, with a more
lowering face than ever; and having replenished
his fire, and blown out the candles

VOL. I. L

upon the mantelshelf, he followed. Tom's
room was bright with firelight and lamplight,
and its gay owner, talking voluble nothings,
bustled about it, drawing curtains and pushing
chairs near the fire. Talking still, he explored
on his hands and knees the lower shelves of a
locker, and arose with an aspect almost tragic.

Not a spot of liquor in the ship ! ' he said.
Wait a bit, whilst I go and look up Johnson.
The governor's in bed, and I don't want to
ring.'

Baretti nodded, and setting his arms on the
mantelpiece, between the lamps that burned
softly at either end, stared drearily at his own
features in the mirror, without consciously
seeing them. Tom Carroll was away so long
that the little man forgot him.

So,' he said to himself, ' this is the end of
my pretences of gratitude.' It looked inexpressibly
dark and ugly to him as he faced it
in his own mind. 'No, no, no. They shall

not end in this way.' As lie moved with his
Italian swiftness of gesture in answer to the
movement of his soul, the motion was reflected
in the mirror and drew his eye to the duplicate
of his own figure there. He looked at it
darkly for a minute, and shook a menacing
finger at it. ' You ! ' he said fierily and disdainfully.
' You ! ' The reflection shook back
at him a finger as threatening and as disdainful
as his own. ' I tell you,' he said, ' that you
shall not moan about this, that you shall not
admit to your own heart that it lives, that you
shall carry it away and bury it, deep, deep,
deep — do you hear ? ' The mockery of his
features in the glass faced him and seemed to
answer him. ' I shall have trouble with you,'
he went on, apostrophising the reflection.
'You will mock me and storm back at me
when I storm. You cannot be happy? You?
Then it remains, my poor foolish friend, to be
unhappy, and still to be a man. And you
L 2

shall be as unhappy as you choose, but you
shall not have one memory of a thought to
curse you for having proved unfaithful.'

Tom's foot kicked gently at the door, and
Baretti, answering to the summons, admitted
his friend, who bore a bottle in either hand
and one under each arm.

Practising for the stage ? ' asked Tom,
laughingly.

'No,' said Baretti, turning lightly round.
But I never shall be rid of my Italian accent

There is not much that is un-english in
your accent,' answered Tom, setting down his
bottles; 'but your action is altogether alien.
You dart about like a parched pea in a pan.
We English stand solid and lumpish while we
speak. Now " speak a piece" as the Yankees
say, and I will drill you. Something English.'

Danish will do,' said the painter, with no
responsive smile, and he declaimed with his
arms hanging at his sides, and his whole figure

stiffly set. ' Give me the man that is not
passion's slave, and I will hold him in my
heart of hearts — '

But here on a sudden he cast his arms
wildly in the air and made a rush at the impassive
Tom, crying — ' as I do thee ! '

Something too much of this said Tom,
completing the line, and shaking Baretti's hands
away from his with a gesture that had nothing
unfriendly in it. ' This is less English than
ever. We must train you by duller methods.
Let us try the prosiest of prose to begin with.
Repeat me one of Euclid's axioms.'

A straight line,' said Baretti, marking the
straight line in the air with a rapid forefinger,
is the shortest road between two points.' And
out stretched both forefingers at the end of the
imaginary line, to illustrate the position of the
points.

You are hopeless,' said Tom, laughing.
'A man who gesticulates over Euclid will

gesticulate over anything — over everything. I
wonder,' lie added with sudden seriousness,
whether you southern people feel as keenly as
you seem to feel. It seems to an Englishman
you don't mind my saying this, Baretti, do
you? — that the Italian manner indicates —
indicates — what's the word ? Not insincerity ? '

No,' cried the painter, almost fiercely, ' not
that.'

'No,' said Tom, holding out a hand to
beseech quiet, ' not that, but a certain brevity
of duration in sincerity. A flash and over. An
intense appreciation of anything and everything
whilst it lasts. Your passions, fancies, likings,
rages, are all like lightning. You live by lightning,
with the flash always coming and going.'

Baretti shook his head.

'There is steady fire enough in an
Italian's heart,' he answered, with a sombre
nod, ' to warm your hands at. I will give you
another reason for the flashes you speak of. If

you have a dull, steady, slow-burning fire, and
you throw any trifle into it, any bit of stick or
straw, you have a little flame which rises and
dies. But you do not say that the fire is out,
though it looks dull by contrast, when your
wretched little bit of stick is finished. Human
nature is human nature all the world over, only
you show your emotions like an oyster, and I
like a — like a '

Grasshopper,' suggested Tom.

'That Avill do,' said Baretti, with perfect
gravity. ' He is a sunny little creature who
loves warm weather, and he moves briskly and
he sings, though his tunes are all very like
one another.'

And yours are not,' answered Tom, ' for
you are Variety's Epitome.'

There is no deep-rooted distrust of Italy
in all this, is there, Carroll ? ' asked the painter,
with a pretence of badinage. ' What am I ? A
butterfly little fellow, eh ? Fluttering, hovering

here, there, no staying, no resting, no stamina
inside to make me want to rest and stay.'

No, no,' said Tom ; ' I don't read you so
badly.'

You do not think that I coukl not make
my mind up to do a painful thing, which would
take a long time, and be painful all the while ? '

No,' said Tom, lightly enough ; ' why
should?'

I do not want an answer of that sort,' said
the artist, with a fiery sweep of his right arm.
Do you believe of me that, for the sake of
principle, or for the sake of a friend — for you,
for instance — I would do something hard to do .^
That it is in me to do it ? In a word, that I ama
man of principle, and not an insect of
impulse ? '

Granted,' cried Tom, in some surprise at
his companion's heat. ' Granted every word.'

You mean that ? '

I mean that.'

From your soul ? ' demanded the Italian,
vehemently.

I believe it honestly,' answered the Briton,
with genial stolidity.

It will be better for me, and for you,'
answered Baretti, ' that you do believe it.'

I'm very glad to hear it,' said Tom, lightly.
Whisky or Burgundy, old man ? ' Baretti
cast at him a glance of rage and threw up his
hands.

Oh, you English ! you English ! ' Tom
lashed. Baretti was so much in earnest about
trifles that Tom took nine-tenths of his talk
with a cent, per cent, dilution. In his inmost
heart he thought an Englishman the only solid
and responsible creature in the world.

Carroll,' said Baretti, ' I am uncomfortable.
I am in want of something, and I think
it is music. Play something to me.'

All right,' said Tom. ' The governor's
bedroom is on the other side of the house,

luckily, and I shan't disturb him.' Tom took
up his violin and began to play.

Stop,' cried Baretti, two or three minutes
later ; ' I am out of tune. Your loveliest
melodies caterwaul to me. I do not care for
Mozart any more than if I were a Carib. Put
it away, or play to yourself, if you weill, and I
will say good-night. Good-night, Carroll,
good-night.' Tom tried to dissuade him from
going, but he stood with both hands outstretched
for a farewell, and a strange smile on
his face. The player laid down his instrument
and took both the outstretched hands in his,
shook them, and dropped them gaily. The
artist went without another word, and having
locked the door of his own room and stirred
the smouldering fire, he relit his candles, and,
with his elbows spread abroad upon the mantelpiece,
fell to staring at his own reflection. He
had stood for a long time, when he murmured
to himself: —

'Not one base word of Carthage on thy
soul ! ' Then he suddenly blew out the candles,
so that but for the glow of the fire the room
was dark. ' Good-night,' he said softly, ' goodnight,
Carroll. Best man and dearest friend,
good-night. It is not the dog you fed who
will bite you. It is not the heart you gave its
only hope to that will envy you.'

He sank into a chair beside the fire, and
watched the glow until it faded and died.
Grey ashes were sprinkled, slowly, slowly, on
the heads of faces in the fire, and glowing
features crumbled one by one until all had gone
the way to dusty death, and he was staring
blindly at the darkness.

CHAPTEE VII.

Next morning, when Mr. Carroll and Tom and
Baretti were at breakfast together, Master Tom,
who had a considerable little pile of letters
before him, opened one of them, and, suddenly
rising from his seat, began to caper about the
room and to sing and snap his fingers.

Thomas,' said Mr. Carroll, with a voice of
displeasure, ' pray compose yourself.'

Head that,' said Tom, throwing the letter
on the table and stooping to right his fallen
chair. ' Isn't that magnificent ? '

Mr. Carroll, with his gold-rimmed double
eye-glasses on the bridge of his nose and his
head thrown back a little, read the letter which
had so delighted his son.

This pleases you ? ' he asked, when he had
gone through it. He held the glasses in one
hand, and the note in the other, and tapped
them together lightly as he spoke. ' This
pleases you ? '

Certainly,' said Tom, whose face was
already much less radiant ; ' it is the greatest
honour I could have hoped for.'

'M-m,' said Mr. Carroll, putting up the
glasses once more, 'I should scarcely have
construed it so. You will answer the — ah —
the gentleman who writes this in the affirmative?'


Why, my dear father,' said Tom, in a
little dismay, ' I never was so proud in my life.
It's a letter from Hoffmannn, Baretti,' he went
on, turning to his friend. ' They're going to
play my " Dream of Venice " at Hoffmannn's
Wednesday Concerts, and Hoffmannn wants to
know if I will conduct in person.'

It is a splendid opportunity,' said Baretti.

'It is a high honour. I congratulate you,
Carroll, with my whole heart.'

Mr. Carroll drew out his snuff-box, tapped
it twice or thrice, and put it back again.

Very well, Tom,' he said, handing back
the note again ; ' I trust that I can rely upon
you to do nothing which will endanger my
respect. You belong to your world and I to
mine, and I suppose we shall not convince each
other.'

There are to be two rehearsals,' said Tom,
who was so checked in the full flow of his
spirits by his father's manner that he was fain
to hide his embarrassment by a pretended
perusal of the letter, ' and Hoffmannn wants
me to be present at them. The first is in a
week's time. Shall you begin the portrait
to-day, Baretti ? '

Yes,' said Baretti, ' to-day. You will
come with me ? ' Tom assented, and the two
finished breakfast in silence. Mr. Carroll

betook himself to the library, carrying his
letters with him, and before the two young
fellows left the house they heard him ride
away to attend some meeting of the justices in
the neighbouring town.

I'll tell you what it is, Baretti,' said Tommy
father's a sort of survival. He is a man
of the old school, and he is slow to imbibe the
modern feeling about art. You know how
new that feeling is in England ? ' He was
obviously afraid lest Baretti should feel in his
own person the lash of Mr. Carroll's scorn of
the artistic classes. The little man nodded
back at him, with a singular smile, wonderfully
affectionate and gentle.

Yes,' he replied, quietly, ' it is hard to
surrender the opinions of a lifetime.' He
spoke with so little of his common vivacity
that Tom noticed it, even in the midst of the
preoccupation of his own annoyance. They
were in the lane together on the way to Beech

Tree Hall, and the artist was walking with his
eyes upon the ground.

What is the matter, Baretti ? ' asked Tom,
with a hand on his friend's shoulder. ' You
are changed.'

I will tell you the plain truth,' said the
artist, pausing in his walk. 'You must not
laugh at me,' he went on, looking upwards,
with a blush, ' but I am home-sick. It is three
years since I last saw my native Naples, and
then I stayed but for a week. There is nobody
left,' he continued, sadly, ' but the place is
there, and I must see it again and live in my
own air for a time.'

That's natural enough,' said Tom. ' When
do you want to go ? '

I shall finish this portrait,' answered
Baretti, ' and then I shall go away at once.'

You won't stay long .^ ' Tom asked.

I cannot tell,' replied Baretti, ' but I will
promise one thing. If you will let me know

when you are going to be married, I will come
back in time.'

A bargain,' said Tom gaily.

A bargain,' echoed the painter. ' Very
well.' A fortnight in the poisoned sunshine of
her presence and then blank darkness. In all
ages young men and young women have found
love's dream look thus real and thus lifelike.

Tom told his good news to his sweetheart
and her father, and found ready sympathy and
congratulation.

But Tom, my lad,' said Lording, drawing
him on one side, ' what's going to become of
the portrait ? You won't take Baretti with
you ? When you are gone he'll be lonely.
Let him come over here. I'll ask two or three
people to come down and stay whilst he's here.
Eh?'

This promised to be something of a relief
to Tom, who, now that he came to think of it,
saw clearly enough that Baretti would hardly

VOL. I. M

be comfortable if left to the sole society of
Carroll senior. So the Fates arranged between
them that Antonio Baretti should be proved.
He had no excuse for declining, and his
perturbation on being asked was taken to
express no more than a little shyness. He was
so afraid of the real cause of his unwillingness
being guessed that he made next to no
resistance, and before work was begun that
morning the thing was settled. On the day
before Tom's departure for London, Baretti
was to take up his abode at Lording's house,
and stay there until the portrait was finished.
Then everybody was to go up together to
witness Tom's triumph at the concert — for, of
course, nobody thought success doubtful — and
Baretti, after the concert, was to start for his
native Naples.

Miss Lording had an easy time of it, and
Baretti scarcely called upon her. He was not
morose, as he had been on the previous day.

but his manner was subdued and softened.
Mary felt herself surrounded by a novel and
pleasing atmosphere. The smell of Baretti's
paints was an ingredient in it, but that was
inevitable and easily endured, and it was surely
nice to have awakened an artist's artistic
enthusiasm, as she knew she had awakened
those of the Italian, and to have her affianced
lover there to pet or tease as she would — ^by
signs so slight as not to be detectable by two
of the quartet present. Lording was proud of
his daughter and proud of Tom, and proud of
Baretti, and was generally in high feather.
For Baretti this morning there was a sort of
luxury in resignation. He had complete faith
in his renunciation of the night before. There
was no more need for resolution, and he had
simply to be passive and to let time drift him
along as rapidly as might be until he could go
away and begin to forget.

There was a piano in the room, and Tom

M 2

sat down to it now and again and played a
snatch of music. Lording watched the work
of painting with a childlike interest, and Mary-moved
about gaily in the long and frequent
intervals of liberty the artist accorded her.
Once or twice she came so near to Baretti in
her innocent ignorance, and stood watching the
work so close behind him, that although no
portion of her dress so much as touched him,
her nearness was like an embrace, under which
every sense of his frame and every faculty of
his mind seemed to swoon. When she posed
for him, sometimes gravely and sometimes
overrunning with gaiety, and he met the
stedfast unconscious look of her lovely eyes, or
saw the laughter of a young and innocent
nature there, and the gladness of a beautiful
harmless vanity, he felt as if he were sinking
into some lovely perfumed dream to die. And
all the while he went on working with a
singular consciousness of power over his

materials and his theme. Niagara was three
weeks off, and the passage along the Rapids
was endurable. The position was not a new
one.

The most admirable and becoming arrangements
are made by consent of society at large
for the prevention of unaccompanied meetings
between young men and young women, notwithstanding
which young men and young
women continue to meet without the society
of their elders, to plan marriages of which
those elders would righteously disapprove, and
generally to conduct themselves as their elders
did before them, and would again if they were
young again. But since her mother's death
none of those arrangements had been in force
in the case of Mary Lording, and she had
known and enjoyed a freedom to which most
girls of her age and station are strangers. It
followed in her case — though naturally enough
it might not follow in all cases — that she

looked on young men with a sort of sense
of brotherhood and camaraderie, that she was
not in the least afraid of them or abashed
before them. It was true enough that they
made love sometimes, and that (except in one
special case) had always been disagreeable.
Now of course nobody would dare to make
love to her, and freedom was made freer than
ever by that reflection. She would have
associated herself quite fearlessly with any
nice young fellow of reasonable position and
antecedents, who happened to come to her
knowledge by any of the recognised roads,
and in Baretti's case she was prepossessed in
half a dozen different ways. He was her
lover's dearest friend — he was a young man
(in Tom's belief, and therefore in hers also) of
the most transcendent genius — he was handsome
and charming and a foreigner — and — he
had given very signal proof of enthusiasm about
her portrait. Now, if you and I believed that

a o'reat artist was enthusiastic in his desire to
commemorate our charming faces and figures,
we should naturally have a good opinion of
that artist's discernment, and should feel
friendly towards him.

A profound melancholy laid its hand upon
the artist when he was not at work, and this
helped to make him interesting. He took
interest in nothing that did not concern his art,
except by fits, Avhen he broke into vivid
momentary enthusiasm and flashed back again
into gloom. He avoided all society when he was
able, and though he strove to do it naturally and
as if it were always the result of accident, the
girl saw that he specially avoided her. This
piqued her, and set her with a woman's love of
conquest, to vanquish his shyness and his desire
for loneliness. So there came to be added to
the little man's torments a dreadful sweet fear
which brought temptation in its train. He was
not a vain man, over and above the common,

but it came into his heart one day to ask if the
girl were drifting towards him as he had
drifted towards her. If that were so he felt
himself doomed, and there was an awful
throb of joy at the fear.

If his melancholy had been at all of the
stage sort, Mary would have been one of the
first young women in the world to laugh at him.
But it was so real, so obviously unaffected, and
so little obtrusive, that it not only piqued her
into a desire to overcome the shyness which
sprang from it, but extorted some pity from
her as well.

Had Tom Carroll guessed what he was
leaving behind him he might have declined
Herr Hoffmannn's flattering offer. To leave the
only woman who had ever breathed a word of
love to him (for they had got so far by this
time at odd moments), and the dearest friend
in the world in her society, could scarcely

seem unsafe to so generous and candida
nature. And, indeed, it does sometimes
happen that a man's best friends do not betray
him, and that a sweetheart is true. He went
off with a light heart, and nine-tenths of his
ambition seemed already realised in fancy.
To hive ' a mere country gentleman's life, with
no interest outside that narrow sphere, had
seemed ignoble to him from his boyhood, and
this one chance seemed to open up to him the
whole world of art ambition, and with the
forerunning enthusiasm which belongs to ardent
young men of talent he felt like a Gounod or a
Yerdi already.

The great Herr Hoffmannn received him
politely, for a wonder, and the rehearsals
passed away without memorable incident.
Cousin Mark called at 20 Montague Gardens,
and made himself agreeable in his own way.

I have found a new profession,' said Mark.

It pays just as well as the old one. Nothing
a-year, and pay your own expenses.'

Profitable,' said Tom lounging in his own
arm-chair at the fireside.

Isn't it ? ' said Mark, with his own cheerful
and amiable smile. ' I am teaching the
charming Signora to talk English.' '

What charming Signora ? ' Tom demanded.
The memory of Signor Malfi and
his mate had long since left him. Mark recalled
him to the circumstance of their chance
encounter.

I find it useful to know them,' said Mark,
with his customary candour. 'A poor devil
like me has to fish for profitable acquaintances.
You were born with a golden spoon in your
mouth, and I don't suppose you ever knew
what it was to want a fiver in your life. By
God ! Tom, I believe that of all the hard-up
men in London, I am king and captain.'

Well,' said Tom, with a rather fatuous

good-nature, ' you know where to come to.'
Mark laughed.

I shan't leave you till I've drained you
dry,' he said. ' I shall never pay you even if
I am able, for I am by nature an ungrateful
dog, and gratitude has always seemed to me,
to tell you the honest truth, the most absurd
and misguided of all human sentiments. But
if you will oblige me with a tenner '

Tom laughed responsive, and obliged him
on the spot.

If ever anybody asks you for a testimonial
to character,' said Tom, ' don't offer it yourself.
Send him to me.'

My dear fellow,' returned Mark, still
smiling, ' that sort of thing pays. If you proclaim
yourself virtuous nobody believes you.
Everybody knows that all men are liars and
nobody believes anybody. Now I tell the
truth about myself, and nobody believes me'

Xow, you know, Mark,' said Tom, who was

amused by all this, ' that's not a pretty
sentiment.'

Don't come to me for pretty sentiments,'
Mark answered. ' I am the only man I ever
knew who wasn't either a liar or a fool. Now,
you don't like to own it, but you know that
ninety-nine parts in a hundred of all the talk
about virtue and honour and public spirit is
pure and unadulterated humbug. When you
want to hear the truth about a man, go to his
enemies. They'll tell you how degraded his
motives are. If you want the truth about
Gladstone read the high Tory journals. If you
want the truth about Disraeli read the low
Eadical papers.'

Somebody says,' Tom responded, ' that the
only way to understand a man is to love him.'

'What a rule for a British jury with a
knotty case of murder ! No, no. The true
rule of life is to think every man guilty until
he proves himself innocent. Then you can

admire his selfishness of fence and distrust him
all the more.'

At this Tom fairly broke ito laughter, and
Mark, with his hand stretched out towards his
wine-glass and his cigar half-way from his lips,
laughed back at him quite gaily.

I've got what I want,' said Mark, emptying
his glass and rising, ' and now I'll go. I have
to give the charming Signora her English
lesson this afternoon. Do you feel inclined fora
walk ? '

Yes,' said Tom, and in a minute or two,
well coated, the cousins were in the crisp,
wintry open air.

Tom thought little enough of Mark's rhodomontade.
It was Mark's habit to profess
cynicism, and the easy-going youngster, his
cousin, with his kindly thoughts about all
people, and his amiable heart, would have
found it difficult to believe that any man really
cared to regulate his life by such a creed. But

siicli conscience as Mark had was soothed by
the candour of his own discourse, though he
admitted that even whilst he spoke the truth he
expected nobody to believe him.

It was not a very honest exposition of his
own character after all, but if, with the plain
truth staring them in the face, people refused
to believe in it, was that Mark's fault ?

I don't know,' said Mark, as they walked,
whether I am or not a particularly brilliant
teacher, but if I am not I have an especially
brilliant pupil. You remember when we met
that woman? She didn't know a score of
English words, upon my honour, and now she
can understand a lot that's said to her, and she
chatters away in a surprising manner. Come
in with me and hear her. She's amusing.'

No, thank you,' said Tom.

You will, though,' answered Mark, ' and
I'll tell you why. Malfi has got all the tenor
music of Hoffmannn's new opera. He's a slow,

poor sort of creature, and it takes him a month
to learn a tune. The charming Signora plays
with one finger — for he doesn't know a note,
and she's not much better — and they hammer
it out in that way between them. He has
learned half a dozen of the airs now, and sings
them decently. He'll be grateful if a swell
pianist like yourself will give him a turn, and
I'm sure you'll like the music'

I'll go for that,' said Tom, ' though I
wouldn't for the broken English.'

The charming Signora,' pursued Mark,
has learned English enough already, under my
tuition, to venture on taking English music
pupils.'

And she plays with one finger ? ' said Tom.

Oh, that's my playful way of putting it.
She's a bad enough pianiste, but not quite so bad
as that. I wrote an advertisement for her a
week ago, for pupils, and sent it to the Times!

When they reached the house in which

Signor Malfi had apartments the piano was in full
swing, and a powerful soprano voice was screaming
a bravura. The powerful soprano left off in
the middle, and the accompaniment reverting
to the beginning, another voice took up the
air.

1^0, no, no, no, no ! ' the Signora's voice was
heard crying. ' Like sis,' and the powerful
voice began to scream again.

Here's a pupil,' said Mark, ' the first fruits
of the advertisement, no doubt.' The pupil
began to sing again, and Tom held up a finger
to ask for silence. There was a look of perplexity
on his face. ' What's the matter ? '
asked his cousin.

That's odd,' said Tom. ' I'll bet anything
I know that voice.' They were within the house,
and waiting for the operatic tenor in the next
room to that in which the lesson was being
given. ' I'm sure of the voice,' said Tom,
I can't be mistaken.'

Whose is it ? ' Mark demanded, but at
that instant the Signer entered.

We are indebted to you, Signor Carroll,'
said he to Mark. ' The advertisement has already
secured a pupil, an English miss. It
was a good thought, and it will occupy Catherine
in my absence. I have engagements in Paris
and Vienna, but she has not, and will remain
here. There is a voice ! ' The screaming
soprano was turned on again. ' For volume
and compass it is unrivalled in Europe. Yet
the managers will not engage her.'

The singer was disposed to be voluble on
this matter, and he talked until Tom (knowing
nothing of the language in which the
conversation was conducted) strolled to the
window, and, staring out on the street, fell
into a day-dream. He was startled from it
by the sudden slamming of the street-door,
and a second later he saw a familiar figure
the figure of a girl whose skirts were
VOL. I. N

blowing picturesquely in the wind, and who
bore a roll of music in her hand.

Look here, Mark,' he cried. ' Isn't that
little Azubah Moore ? You know ! The little
girl at the farm at home ? We used to play
^vith her when we were lads together.'

By Jove, it is ! ' cried Mark, as the girl
turned for a moment to face the wind and
rearrange her dress.

'That is Caterina's pupil,' said the Italian,
making an easy shot at the purport of their
talk. ' She will never sing. She has not the
volume or the compass.'

What does he say ? ' asked Tom, and
Mark translated. ' That's a matter of opinion,'
said Tom, nodding his head sagely, ' and all
the same, I'd sooner hear her than that railway
whistle in the next room. What on
earth made a singer marry a woman with a
voice like that?'

Marry ? ' cried Mark, smilingly. ' He's no

more married than I am. Bono giorno,
Sigiiora Malfi,' said Mark, as the lady entered,
and he advanced to meet her with outstretched
hands.

CHAPTEE VIII.

The time of Baretti's stay was coming to an
end, and the portrait was all but finished.
Tom was back in the country and was over
every day to look at the growing beauties of
the picture, not being unmindful in the meantime
of the charms of the picture's original.
If there might have been found in all broad
England a happy man, that man was Tom
Carroll. As he rode or walked between his
fathers house and Lording's on those bright
mornings and bracing nights, his heart welled
over with joy, and he carolled in the lonely
lanes like a throstle. A good heart, a good
digestion, lots of money, ambitions opening,
a sweetheart beautiful and kind, and the

dearest friend man ever had in the world
what more misjht he desire ?

And all the while love and friendship
were fighting in Baretti's heart, and making
wild work of it there. The little man was
sensitive of honour, and all his interest
desires and the secret hopes he tried to ignore
were dishonourable.

Mary knew of his approaching departure
from England, and sometimes spoke of it,
not knowing the pain she gave him. Baretti
was at work on the last Monday morning
of his stay, and he was touching and retouching
the ripened beauties of his picture
with a lingering hand and a heart disposed
to linger. From the canvas, the work of
his own hands smiled upon him with how
perfect a beauty ! What is old Fairfax's
verse ?

Her hand, her foot, her vesture's hem.
Muse, touch not for polluting them
All that is hers is clear, pure, holy.

His brush kissed her shoe upon the canvas
as his hips would have felt it too bold todo
in fact. The best worship he could offer
her seemed to soil her, for not only his love
but his friendship made her sacred. A double
passion made her doubly inaccessible, even
to his thoughts, and yet his thoughts were
rebels to his will and would assail her. And
she sat there the while, chatting and smiling,
stooping to the friendliest intimacy, and holding
him miles and miles away.

Mr. Carroll tells me,' she said, ' that you
have no friends left in Naples.'

None,' he answered.

And yet you suffer from home-sickness ?
Do you love the place so much ? ' He shook
his head and answered without looking at her.

I have a double reason for going. But
the reason I have given is light beside the
reason I have not given.' She did not answer
to this enigma, but looked at him with inquiring

interest. ' A duty calls me there.
I can say nothing of it, except that it is
a duty, and a hard one. But in this Avorld
one does not always what is pleasant. Fate
brings you nasty mixtures and does not
care for your wry faces.'

]^o,' she said assenting. His sadness
and his resignation touched her, and her tone
was caught from his.

There is a friend of mine,' he went on,
mixing a delicate tint upon his palette, and
keeping his glance resolutely fixed upon it,
who did me a great service. I made a
promise to him in return. He does not
know of it yet, but I know that it is a
thing of life and death to him that I should
keep my promise now. I lose nothing by
it, but there are circumstances which make
it hard to keep.'

He had thought when he began that he
could trust himself to say so much and no

more, but a sudden terror fell upon him
lest he should betray his secret. He stopped
abruptly, and began to paint almost blindfold.
There was silence for a minute or two,
and then he discovered that his work was
going wrong, and busied himself in restoring
it.

I must not pry into your secrets, Mr.
Baretti,' she said, after this pause, ' but it
is easy to see that you do not like the task
you are taking upon yourself. Are you quite
sure that duty calls you to it ? '

My way is plain,' he answered. In an
Englishman his manner might have looked
a little over-dramatic here, but it was so
evidently real in him that it passed for pure
nature, as it was. ' I am bound by every
tie of honour and friendship.' He began to
feel a glow of strength and hope even as he
spoke. ' And if I were what a man should
be, I should not even feel a regret at doing

it. When I am in my right mind I shall
be glad that I have done it. It will be very
disagreeable to do, and I am like a child
who is offered medicine. That is all.'

Your friend does not know yet that he
needs your services ? ' she asked. If Mary
Lording had only known it, she herself was
going on a dangerous road. Her accepted
lover, whom she had known all her life, and
for whom she had a most sincere and tender
friendship, had never interested her as Baretti
did. But she had no time just now to stop
and analyse.

He will not know,' said the painter, turning
his face upon her. She read a look of exaltation
there which it was impossible for any man
to have feigned. The flashing eyes and handsome
face were transfigured by that emotion
of friendship and the strength of soul by which
he repelled temptation. ' He would only know
that he had needed me and that I had broken

faith if I did not keep my word. And he is a
friend so true, with a heart so honest and kind,
that when I think that I have been afraid to bea
little uncomfortable when I do my duty, I
am ashamed — ashamed.'

She had never seen him in such a mood
before. Whatever the duty he had set himself
might be, it was plain enough that it entailed
more than a little discomfort, and his single-heartiness
roused her to a momentary flush
of enthusiasm.

'We shall all be sorry to lose you, Mr.
Baretti,' she said, ' but not one of your friends
will ask you to linger when you have such an
errand.' And she held out her hand like a
queen. Baretti dropped his brush, accepted
the proffered hand, and bowed above it. She
shook hands frankly like a man, and returned
to her seat. Baretti picked up the fallen brush,
and went on working, but she saw suddenly
that he was as pale as death, and somehow,

whether by instinct or by chance, she read his
fable through and through, not as if by a guess,
but as if by the light of absolute certainty.

She was conscious enough of her beauty,
and Alas little to be blamed upon that score,
for, apart from the innocent vanity which leads
young people to think well of their own
attractions, she had had hers so dinned into her
ears by lovers who languished and lovers who
stormed and lovers who wrote verses, and
needy fortune-hunters who wanted money
and had no objection to taking a pretty wife
with a fortune, that she had more than the
ordinary excuses for a knowledge of her
charms. But she was a girl with a healthy
mind, and a heart that had room in it for much
more than the joy of being admired. Her first
conscious mental act was to repel the fancy,
but the fancy proved, sudden as it was, a fixed
belief, and would not be repelled. Then a
pang of pity and sorrow touched her heart,

and then — was lie sorry ? For whom ? For
Tom — for Baretti — for herself? For a moment
she felt as a swimmer feels when he floats unsuspectingly
into a sudden, powerful eddy, and
finds himself rolled helplessly over and over.

She had never doubted her affection for
Tom Carroll, the steady growth of years of
intimacy and pleasant intercourse. It was not
the hove she had read of in plays and books,
and she had set down plays and books in her
own mind as exaggerative if not false. That she
could love a man whom she had not known
for more than two months was palpably preposterous
and unnatural. That she could be
false to her dear old friend and newly-affianced
lover even in a thought was a things too absurd
to need to be refuted. Each of these mental
postulates stood unshakable, and yet — she satin
sudden terror of herself. If the man loved

her ? She dared not face the result of that

inquiry.

Baretti, with only self-possession enough
left to know that he must still disguise himself,
turned away from the picture, and began to
scrape the colour from his palette. Mary
arose, and, trying to speak naturally, asked : —

'You can do without me for the present,
Mr. Baretti ? ' Her voice sounded strangely
unsympathetic and cold, alike on her own ears
and on his.

Thank you — yes,' he answered hoarsely ;
and not daring to commit herself to more words
she withdrew. ' I have betrayed myself,' said
Baretti, miserably. And then such a new
foolish battle began within him as you may
picture to yourself by the aid either of imagination
or experience. First, he rejoiced to think
that at least she knew he worshipped her, and
then he was ashamed of his rejoicing. Then,
at least, his sufferings were known, and then
new shame rushed at him for that base hope.
But at last, and after no very prolonged spell at

this old and unprofitable exercise, he resolved :
'I will finish the picture and go, and in the
meantime I will keep out of her way.' So he
hardened his heart, and in spite of his pitiable
state, he set to work again. Storms of noble
shame and ignoble joy swept through him, and
there were moments when he could neither
think of his work nor see it, but he held on
resolutely in the main. There was so little todo
that but for his love for the theme and his
loyalty to his friend he could well have borne
to leave it undone, and two or three hours of
resolute labour saw him to the close. The
luncheon-bell rang, and he disregarded it.
Lording came up in person to look after him.
Too busy to come downstairs, Baretti ? '
I shall have finished in half an hour,' he
answered ; ' I cannot leave it now.' Lording,
who had quite a superstitious reverence for his
guest's genius and its various urgencies, went
out on tiptoe, and excused Baretti to his guests

He lead to excuse his daughter also, for she
sent word that she was troubled by a headache,
and kept her room till dinner-time, though
Tom came over in the afternoon with only an
hour to spare, and rode away disappointed.
He drove over again in the evening, and found
her languid and unlike herself, but he was
better pleased that evening, in spite of the
lover-like fears that assailed him, than he had
ever been before in her society ; for she seemed
to cling to him, and was so sweet and kind,
and withal seemed for once so dependent on
him that he went home in a state of blissful
worship and security. It was natural, but
more than a little pitiful. The poor girl wanted
to make up to him for a second's infidelity, not
daring to guess that the whole course of her
life had changed, and the poor lad went away
flattered and enraptured until he scarce felt
mortal, and had no faintest notion that he had
seen the last flicker of love's little flame. In

two hearts friendship and honour struggled
against a passion that has vanquished both a
million times. But though love had conquered
one, the other had not yet capitulated, and
even in Baretti's case honour and friendship
were pilot and steersman, though passion commanded
the craft. And between them they
played their captain false right staunchly, and
the little man went his way sore but resolute.

Baretti's unfortunate parable had been set
forth on a Monday ; the concert at which Tom's
work was to be played was one of a Wednesday's
series ; and on Tuesday from the two
houses of Carroll and Lording there was an
exodus. Thomas Carroll the elder, much as he
objected to Tom's appearance, was not insensible
to the flattering notice taken of the event
by the local county people, and notably by my
Lord Bellamy, who was an enthusiastic musical
amateur, and he had consented to go up to
London and listen to the performance. Lording

and Mary vere also going, though the girl
now began to feel exceedingly guilty and unhappy.


My dear said the old fellow, addressing his
daughter an hour or two before the time fixed
for departure, ' I want you to do me a favour

She asked him somewhat uninterested
what it might be, and he, with a face of mystery,
drew from his waistcoat pocket a tiny morocco
case no bigger than a pill-box. This being
opened revealed a ring with a splendid diamond
set in it.

This is for Signor Baretti,' said Lording,
with a sly laugh. ' He painted that picture for
Tom, you know, and of course we can't let a
thing like that go unrecognised. Heaven only
knows what it's worth ! I'm sure I don't. A
thousand pounds, perhaps. Now, I want you
to give him this ring from me, and to ask him
to wear it as a memento of his visit and his
kindness.'

VOL. I. O

Papa said the girl, with a look of wounded
indignation, ' how can you ask me to do such a
thing ? No, dear ; no.'

Bless my soul ! ' cried the old gentleman,
where's the impropriety? Never mind. There,
there. Never mind. I'll give it him myself.
Will you come with me ? '

She assented lingeringly, and Lording, too
dull of perception to notice her manner, led the
way to the room Baretti had used as a studio.
The artist was putting up his brushes, and after
the manner of lovers, was making inward protestations
above the senseless things that had
been associated with his passion. He would
keep them till he died, and they should never
touch canvas any more, having once been glorified
by such a theme. But, indeed, as some of
us remember well enough, the slightest things
i^row sacred to a lover.

Signor Baretti,' said Lording, in his bluff,
hearty way, ' I've something here which I want

you to be good enough to accept as a little
memorial of your visit here. I hope you'll
wear this for my sake, and that you'll think of
us sometimes when you look at it. It's not
much of a gift compared with the beautiful work
you're leaving behind you, but it's just a little
souvenir of my daughter and myself, and we
shall both be very pleased if you'll accept it.'

The painter looked and felt embarrassed.
Compared with his host he was a very poor
man indeed, and the gift looked like a
payment.

Pray take it, Mr. Baretti,' said Mary.

I am very sensible of your kindness,' said
Baretti. ' I will never part with it.' He was
so obviously affected, though Lording had no
guess as to the real reason of his discomposure,
that the old gentleman himself found it necessary
to blow his nose, being, as he was, exceedingly
susceptible to all sorts of friendly
emotion.



Nice-hearted little fellow he is, to be sure,*
he said to his daughter a minute or two later,
Takes to people like a dog, doesn't he ? '

It was scarcely the commendation Mary
would have chosen had she been in a mood to
commend him, but she said nothing, and went
away to superintend her maid's preparations for
the journey.

When the journey came it was a dull one.
Mr. Carroll had a pompous disapproval of its
object, and smiled superior above the age
which permitted a gentleman to play such
tricks with his position. Baretti and Mary
were silent, and Tom was crushed by his father.
The talk devolving chiefly on Lording, that excellent
old fellow kept things going for awhile,
and at last went to sleep over his Times. The
painter left them at the London terminus, and
Avent to his chambers, taking his belongings
with him, hoping to breathe freely once again
and knowing his hope futile. The quartet went

to au hotel, and awaited the event which had
brought them all to town.

In spite of the energetic applause of Lording
and Baretti the ' Dream of Venice ' achieved
but a qualified success, and fell a little flat
upon the audience. On the morning after the
performance Mr. Carroll scanned the critiques
in the daily papers, and was confirmed in his
opinion that the pursuit of artistic honours was
unworthy of a gentleman. Nobody had ever
dared to make quite so free with the name of
Carroll as these anonymous and irresponsible
reviewers. None of them were warm and some
were frigid. ' If this young composer,' said the
Censor, ' desires to prosper in his profession,
and to secure the public ear, he must,' &:c., &c.

Thomas,' said Mr. Carroll, with a pitying
smile, ' read this, and tell me if a pursuit in
which your position is so liable to be misunderstood
is a pursuit to be adopted by my son ? '

Now Tom, although he was as good-natured

a young fellow and as submissive to paternal
authority as need be, was a little sore
that morning about several things. To begin
with, faint applause is as bad as downright
damnation to an ardent seeker of the arts, and
Tom had seen himself in fancy on the way to
Fame's pinnacle when the great Hoffmannn
condescended to produce his work. The disappointment
was hard to bear. He had tasted
the last of his sweetheart's sweetness, for the
girl was beginning to be sore distraught in her
own mind, and seemed almost apathetic about
the whole matter, deeply as it concerned him.
Baretti had his own troubles to think about, and
sincere as his friendship was, and genuine his
belief in Tom's genius, his praise had sounded
forced and unreal. And so in his soreness
Tom answered his father disrespectfully for
the first time in this history or out of it.

'Position!' cried Tom. 'Good heavens,
sir, what is my position ? ' Mr. Carroll sighed

and smiled, with pitying eyebrows raised

again.

It has been the object of my life,' said Mr.
Carroll, neither in sorrow nor in anger, but
with a resigned allowance for his son's aberrations,
'it has been the object of my life to
instil into you a proper understanding of that
position. The age is tending downwards, Tom,
and I am not so wanting in perspicuity that 1
cannot see it, or that I cannot allow for the
effect it has upon your conduct. But I am not
eager to see my son foremost in the race for
degradation.'

Degradation ! ' cried Tom hotly.

'Degradation was the word I used,' said
Mr. Carroll, with unusual severity of manner.
I will thank you not to echo my observations
in a tone which I can only characterise as
dishonouring to yourself and me.'

Will you kindly tell me what I have done,
sir?' asked Tom. There was a little of the

old man's obstinacy and vanity in him, tliougli
his better qualities obscured them.

My dear Tom,' said his father, waving his
large white hands expressively. ' My dear Tom.'
He went with great deliberation through his
usual snuff-box pantomime, and even got sofar
as to raise the lid. He closed it with a
snap and restored it to his waistcoat-pocket.
Think the thing over, Tom,' he said, with the
nod of a man who is prepared to give another
a chance. ' I am not without faith in you'
natural good-sense, and it is possible that last
night's fiasco may have taught you something.'

Fiasco ! ' said Tom.

'I repeat the word,' said his father.
When a gentleman stoops to such a proceeding
as yours of yesterday, nothing can atone
for it but the outstripping of all competitors.'

Forgive me, sir,' returned Tom, ' if I close
a discussion conducted in such terms.' He
left the room in a great heat, and that was the

beginning of a quarrel between father and son
which left a certain estrangement, even when
the outer breach was healed.

The youngster was flinging out of the hotel
when he met Baretti.

'I have come to say good-bye to your
father and to Mr. Lording,' said the artist.
Tom turned back with him and led the way
to Lording's private sitting-room. Mary was
sitting with her father, and bade Baretti a
collected good-bye, and her manner, remembering
how close they had been together for the
last month and more, was more cool than
courteous. The ordeal was a severe one for
Baretti, but he had schooled himself to go with
it, and he gave no sign which anybody but the
girl could read. Mr. Carroll that evening
returned to Trench House, and Lording and
Mary also left London. Nobody felt in very
high spirits, and even Lording was dashed by
Tom's success destine.

It was evening when the disappointed
musician returned to his own chambers in
Montague Gardens. He sat moodily by the
fire for an hour, and heard Baretti packing
overhead. By-and-by, remembering how sad
and woebegone the little man seemed at leaving
England, in spite of his home-sickness, Tom's
good heart began to warm again. He would
go and cheer his friend a little. His slippered
feet made no noise upon the stair, and Baretti's
door was ajar. He pushed it wide, and entering,
stood amazed and solicitous. The painter,
in his velvet sacque and his gay slippers, was
kneeling at a great arm-chair with his head
buried in the cushion, and his whole frame was
shaking with sobs, though he gave scarcely a
sound. Tom backed out, gently drew the
door to its old position, and went silently downstairs.


'He has some trouble of which I know
nothing,' said Tom to himself. And as the

thought crossed him, the painter rose from his
knees in the room above. He had been kneeling
over Mary Lording's picture, the first sketch
for the portrait, and the beautiful face
glimmered uncertainly through the tears which
had fallen from his eyes upon it. There are
more ways of being strong than one, and
Baretti's was the weak way. The weak,
unwise, little fellow kissed the picture and
locked it away in one of his portmanteaus.
He was never cut out for a hero, and it was
hard to run away from the delight of her
presence. But if he were not true to Tom
Carroll, friendship was a farce, and there was
no such thing as honour in the world.

CHAPTER IX.

Tom,' said Mark, comfortably lolling in
Tom's most comfortable arm-chair, and smoking
one of Tom's cigars, 'why don't you learn
Italian ? It has always been a wonder to me
that you never went in for it.'

I ought to know it,' said Tom. ' Everybody
who goes for music ought to know
Italian.'

Then why not learn it? ' asked Mark.

'Oh, I don't know,' said Tom, with a
disgusted look. ' Such a lot of trouble.' ,

Nonsense,' said Mark, ' a mere distraction.
I'll tell you how to do it pleasantly. Come
and sit at the Signora's lessons. You'll help
her English and she your Italian.'

Well, I don't altogether care,' Tom
answered, after a little pause, ' I don't altogether
care about mixing with people of that
sort. Unmarried ladies who reside with
married men who live apart from their wives
are not much in ray line.'

Pooh ! ' said Mark. ' My dear Tom, the
maxims you cherish would have served admirably
for your grandmother to work on samplers.
There never where any wicked ages and there
never were any moral ages in spite of all the
les historians tell. There have been ages when
what is called Vice — which would do very well
for Virtue if it changed its name — has been
hidden, ages in which it has been published,
and ages in which it has been condoned. This
is an age in which it is condoned. Pardon me,
my dear Tom,' continued Mark, with his own
characteristic smile, ' if I seem to assume a
clerical tone with you. You are very young for
your years, Tom. Your heart is fresh and ingenuous,

and your memory is faith to the
traditions of the past. You remember your
copy-book morals. And what the deuce, my
dear fellow,' cried Mark, rising to his feet, and
taking his cousin by the shoulders, ' what the
deuce have we to play at age for ! Crabbed
age and youth cannot live together. Shake off
dull care and come with me. A young eye
beneath a grey eyebrow is a prettier thing thana
grey head on young shoulders. And, all
nonsense apart, old fellow, you'll do me a good
turn. I am the sort of man who, all nonsense
apart, generally wants somebody to do him a
good turn.'

How ? ' said Tom. You had only to put
it to this foolish young fellow that you needed
a good turn and he was at your service
instanter.

Well,' returned Mark, ' I'm not gainer
than my neighbours. It's no tribute to good
looks, for ugly men have as good fortune as

handsome men, and sometimes better. It's no
tribute to my wit, for the dear creatures absolutely
prefer to fall in love with fools. It says
nothing for my moral character. I'm not
proud about it. It's a confounded nuisance in
point of fact, and I'm simply unable to help it.
The Signora, Tom, has taken it into her Italian
head to fall in love with her English master,
and I'm a little bit afraid of her. I thought
you might like to learn Italian, and I thought
that while you did so I might secure a little
immunity from danger. You see, I can't give
up the lessons very well until I have fulfilled
my promise. It doesn't matter. If I get an
Italian dagger between my ribs, you'll see me
decently buried, won't you ? '

I don't mind coming,' said Tom, ' though
the idea of having you to chaperon is a little
droll, isn't it ? When are you going next ? '

This afternoon,' returned Mark, ' if you
can come. But not otherwise, for a thousand

pounds. She lias wonderful eyes, Tom,
and when she plants her elbow on the
table and drops her chin into the palm of
her hand and languishes at me for half a
minute at a time in the middle of the verb
To Love," it's a little dangerous. Confess
it?'

I don't know,' said Tom. The Signora's
bold black eyes had no charm for Tom. There
was only one woman in the world for him.

You would know,' said Mark, laughing,
if you tried it.'

*I'm not so sure of that, either,' Tom
responded. ' I don't think I'm very susceptible
to that sort of thing.'

I am,' said Mark, laughing again. ' But
you'll come, won't you ? '

'Oh, I'll come,' said Tom. ' But where's
the Signor all this time? Why doesn't he
look after the lady ? '

Well, he's a curious fellow,' answered

Mark. ' He's not jealous on the surface. He
goes about and takes his own liberty a good
deal and leaves her to take hers. But if he
had a thought that things were going wrong,
he's the sort of man to be on the spot with
bowl and dagger in a minute. I'm glad you've
promised to come, though there are only ten
lessons more on the programme. By that
time you'll have warmed to the work, and I'll
go on with you at any times you like to mention
until you've finished. It's a pretty
tongue.

I like the language — that soft bastard Latin,
That melts like kisses from a female mouth." '

And Mark began to spout Italian verses. Tom
listened, tranquilly amused.

You pretend to be a cynic, Mark,' he
said ; ' and yet you're crammed with innocent
enthusiasms.'

Am I not ? ' cried Mark, with his own
smile. ' What a complex creature the human

VOL. I. p

animal is, isn't he, Tom ? Come, we'll lunch
somewhere together and then drop down
stream to the Signora's.'

Tom was not altogether at his ease, but
after all, the thing was a trifle, and Mark was
very right in the main. Nobody seemed to
think so much of one's associates now as they
had used to do. The idea of having Mark to
take care of tickled him a good deal, and he
was pretty sure that some companionship
seemed necessary or Mark would not have
asked for it.

If I were a humbug,' said Mark, after
luncheon, ' I should draw out my purse and
make a lingering pretence of paying the bill.
I should then discover that I had left my last
five-pound note at home. JSTot being a humbug
I confess my poverty. IIow devilish nice it
must be to have money always ! Were you
ever in want of a sovereign, Tom ? '

Many a time when I was at school,' said
Tom ; ' but not since.'

Lucky dog ! ' cried Mark. * Pay up, old
man, and we'll make a start. I won't smoke
restaurant cigars whilst you have one of those
Principales in your case. Thanks.'

The two cousins strolled calmly in the
bright winter afternoon to the residence of
Signor Malfi, and there went through the
Italian-English lesson. The whole affair was
severely business-like until the end, and the
Signora made no eyes at Mark. But when
they were preparing to go the lady suddenly
addressed Mark in her own tongue.

Your companion,' she said, suavely, ' will
not understand one word of what I am saying ? *

Xot a word,' responded Mark. ' You
may be quite sure of that, if you speak rapidly.'

Then why did you bring him here ? ' she
demanded. ' The poor, slow, stupid innocent ! '

'Will you allow me to explain another
time ? ' asked Mark. ' I have very good
reasons.'

p 2

You will be there to-night ? ' said the
Signora.

Without fail,' Mark answered. ' You have
been angry all the afternoon without cause.
But I like you best when you are angry.
Anger becomes you. There is nothing that
does not become you, and you make darkness
fair.'

You are a mocker,' cried the lady, gaily.
Go now, but do not bring the stupid innocent
any more. Good-bye.' She turned to
Tom and addressed him in her liquid, pretty,
broken English. ' It is pleasure to see you
here, sir. 1 hope you will come often with
Mistare Carroll.'

Tom shook hands and protested he was
very happy, with little more sincerity than
the Signora herself displayed.

What had she to say to you in Italian ? '
he asked, when they were clear of the house.

Well, to tell the truth,' said Mark, turning

a smiling face upon him, ' she asked me
not to bring you again, presumably because
you interfered with her love-making. But you
won't desert an old chum on that account,
will you ? '

Oh,' said Tom, disgustedly, ' cut the lessons
altogether. Bother the woman, with her
painted eyes and her painted eyebrows and
her confounded patchouli ! '

'My dear Tom,' returned Mark, taking his
cousin's arm and speaking in a serious tone,
you know me well. You know that I make
no pretence to be a moral fellow, and that
I'm not given to atone for sins I am inclined
to by damning those I have no mind to. Very
well. I have made a faithful promise here,
and in return for that promise — which was
made before I saw any danger in it — have
received certain favours. Small things, all of
them — boxes at the theatres and that sort
of thing — but something to a poor man like

me. I have accepted these and I have made
a promise. Now, I'm not a particular fellow,
but I must keep a promise. Leave me a rag
of virtue, Tom ! '

'You are welcome to all you have,' Tom
answered, lightly, ' but get the thing over as
soon as you can, and then drop it. I wish
you'd find some other victim than myself.'

See me through it, Tom,' said Mark,
almost appealingly ; ' your virtue in this instance
is its owen reward. She is really a very
cultivated woman, though I cannot guess how
she and Malfi came together, and she hasa
beautiful accent. And it's thoroughly worth
your while to learn.'

Tom assented, much against his will. His
objections to the charming Signora were unforced
and genuine. The lad was in love,
and Love taught him to nurse a lofty ideal
of all feminine worth. He thought of Mary
Lording's innocent though imperious beauty,

and lie unconsciously set beside her this flaring,
painted Southern woman — a tea-rose beside an
overblown holly-hock. And Tom was one
of those young men — rarer nowadays than
they should be — who find in purity a woman's
crowning charm, and see in Virtue a something
so sweet and majestic that it brings them almost
to their knees.

With him, to think of Mary was pretty
generally to think of his own unworthiness of
so much grace and goodness, and now that
his failure had humbled him without overmuch
dispiriting him, to think of his unworthiness
was immediately to resolve on being worthy.
There seemed at such times only one way of
deserving her. She sat side by side with his
art, and if he could but once climb so high as
to clasp the knees of his Goddess of Music,
he were high enough to touch the hem of his
sweetheart's vestal garment also. In such a
mood he went home and locked himself in for

study. Midnight found him slaving away at
a chorus of revellers for the opening of the
second act of his opera, and he was on fire
with his theme and could hear the voices pealing,
and the trumpets snarling, and the noise
of fiddle and flute and hautboy and the rest,
all dashing onward in one sparkling cataract
of sound.

Cousin Mark that evening grilled a chopin
his own chambers, opened a small bottle
of claret, and took his frugal dinner alone.
Then he made a cup of coffee, lit a cigar, and
surrendered himself awhile to pleasant meditation.
The cigar being finished, he cleared
away, placing the soiled table utensils in readiness
for the morning laundress, and having
banked up the fire, assumed his hat and coat.
He was standing in the hah with his finger on
the key of the gaslight there, when a faint
tap sounded at the outer door. He stepped
forward on tiptoe and made a reconnaissance

through an almost imperceptible sit cunningly
cut through the door at the deepest sinking of
the panel. There were duns in the world,
as Mark (being not merely a poor man but
averse to parting with money when he had it)
knew to the cost of comfort. This was a late
hour for a common business dun, but there
were plenty of people whom he would rather
avoid meeting than meet.

The stairs and the landing were but dimly
lighted, and he could not make out much of
his visitor until, after tapping a second time,
the figure retired a little to look up at the gaslit
fanlight above his door. Then he knew it ; and
opening the door, stood hat in hand before the
Signora.

'Material* he said, raising his eyebrows
with a singular smile. 'This is indiscreet, is
it not?'

It matters little,' she answered, ' whether
I am discreet or not. Let me in, Marco.'

Certainly he said, ' if you wish it. But
remember I have never asked this of you

I know it,' she answered, as she passed
him. ' I am cold. You have a fire, have you
not ? '

There is a fire in the sitting-room,' he
said, closing the outer door and waving her
along the hall. She entered the room and he
followed.

Marco,' she said, reproachfully, ' I had
expected a little warmer welcome.'

My love,' he answered, ' I am so surprised
to see you here ! What shall I do to show
how glad I am to see you ? Pray sit down
whilst I stir the fire. We shall have a fine
blaze presently. Now, let me take off your
cloak.'

No,' she said, coldly, ' I can help myself.'
She escaped from his too solicitous attention,
and removing her hat, stood to arrange her
hair before the mantelpiece mirror. Then

with a single motion she shppecl from her
cloak and threw it over a chair.

There are more ideals than one in the
world, and in spite of Tom Carroll's cordial
distaste for her, the Signora was undoubtedly
a fine woman in her way. A subdued light
was favourable to her, and the o^aslio;ht was
low. The fire began to flicker a little, and
to light up her cheek, and her ripe lips and
bright eyes, and to lay sudden flashes of gold-colour
on the lights of the coal-black hair.
Mark was something of a connoisseur in female
charms, as has been said already, and he
thought the Signora had never looked to so
much advantage since he had known her. He
was too much of an artist in his own way
to desire to spoil the colouring of the picture.

'Do you find this half-light pleasant?' he
asked. ' Pray sit down. I think nothing
more charming than firelight.'

Yes,' she answered, ' I have heard of that

as one of your English tastes. But, Marco,
do not let us talk of trivialities. I am in need
of sympathy. I am unhappy, Marco, unhappy,
most unhappy.'

Tell me your sorrows,' said Mark, in
his softest voice. He really spoke Italian
amazingly well for an Englishman, and his
voice was round and musical. She was still
unseated, and he approached her.

Can I trust you ? ' she asked. ' Say
nothing. I have had experience enough of
vows, and I know what they mean. Let me
look at you. Let me see your face whilst I
speak to you.'

She moved suddenly, and turned the gas
to its full heiiJ^ht.

'A moment, my dearest,' said Mark, turning
the lights down a little. ' I am a poor
man, and cannot afford to crack even a gas-globe
wantonly. Now I am ready for inspection.
Do you think I look honest ? '

His voice had something of reproach in it
and his 'face was serious, though he bubbled
with mirth beneath his mask of earnestness.
'If you knew how much better you look ina
more subdued light, my dear,' he said to
himself, ' you might spare your face an ordeal.
You don't need to rouge, but Tom was right,
and the eyes and eyebrows are a little assisted
by art.' He wore a tender and appealing look
whilst he thought thus, and stood with his hands
reaching a little forward, as if to say, 'Look
your fill. There is nothing but honesty here.'

Marco,' she said, ' you look honest : and
you have sworn over and over again that you
love me.'

Love you ! ' he answered ; ' I Worship the
ground you tread upon ! '

Odd,' said the real Mark Carroll, lauo-hinor
under his mask. ' They don't believe it, and
yet they like to be told so. Human nature
loves to be humbuc^ored.'

I think,' she said, ' I think I can believe
you.'

Behave me ? ' cried Mark, ' I am simple
honesty itself! '

An Israelite indeed,' added the inward
Mark, ' in whom there is no guile.'

Tito's jealousy and harshness grow beyond
control and beyond endurance. But I have
no friends and no money, and I am in a
foreign land, and you know what lies before
me if I leave him. Can I trust you to be
kind and good to me always? No, Marco,
no ! I shall be plain and middle-aged very
soon, and then I shall have no charm for you.'

Mark turned abruptly to hide the smile
which would crease his lips and sparkle in
his eyes in spite of all his efforts. He carried
off the effect of that abrupt avoidance of her
glance by pacing with an angry-looking jerk in
his step once up and down the room.

There is no faith in a woman's heart,'

he said, when again he stood before her.
None.'

Marco,' said the Signora, plaintively, ' I
would willingly have faith in something.
I would willingly believe that love is not
altogether a vision, a dream, a mockery.'

Xow the amazing part of the business
was that this Italian young person (who had
seen a good deal of the very worst side of the
world, and had learned to be wise, and had
been taught over and over again the folly of
staking gold against counters) was absolutely
in earnest. It was all good fun to Mark, of
course. If a pretty woman chose to throw
herself at Mark's head he was not the man
to say her nay. The dear creatures had
strange ways, and above, all things in the
world they loved to be humbugged. Well ;
he had no objection to giving them their own
way so long as it cost nothing but a little
play-acting.

Caterina,' he said, ' if I were a wealthy
man — if I could offer you a home befitting
your own divine charms — would you scrutinise
my motives in this way ? But because I am
poor you doubt me.'

Will you let me share your poverty,
Marco ? ' she asked, passionately. ' I could
be good with you. I could be at peace
again. I would be true to you. I would work
for you. I do not want fine clothes. I do
not want fine rooms. I can do without all
those things. I only want a little love, Marco,
a little kindness, a little peace. And since I
have known what love is, Tito is hateful to me.'

She swept her gloved hand across her eyes,
aid Mark stole an arm about her waist. Upto
now the Signora had furnished very good
sport to Mark, but here the game had turned
to bay, and, he himself seemed likely to be
hunted.

Mia caressing,' said Mark, tenderly, ' you

know I love you. A passion like mine is not
to be doubted. No woman ever lived who
would not recognise a tenderness so devoted.
You know it. Your own heart tells you that I
love you. But you propose a thing impossible
at least for the present. Let us meet when
we may. Let us extract what moments of
sweetness from the bitter hours we can.'

You love me,' she cried, ' and yet you bid
me go back to Tito! No, no, Marco. That
is not the love I want. I want peace, Marco —
peace and rest — the peace and rest you
promised me. Not that.'

We must wait for that,' said Mark, soothingly.
' I am so poor, Caterina, that I can
scarcely provide for myself, and if I accepted
the generous offer of your foolish heart we
should both starve together.'

If I go back to Tito,' she flashed at him,
suddenly, 'I stay with him for ever. I hate
him, and my life is all a lie with him, but I

VOL. I. Q

will not live a double lie. Oh, I hate all
the world — myself — and you, because I love
you so

Let her have her head,' said Mark, with
inward quiet, though he feigned to be perturbed
and pretended to soothe her. 'She'll
race herself out of breath in a little while.
We've had thunder and lightning enough,' he
went on, with a change of simile, ' here comes
the rain. In half an hour we shall have
clear skies again.'

If it had been possible to sit down in
shelter, and to smoke whilst the tempest raged,
Mark felt that the situation would have been
passable. But it was a decided nuisance to
have to make love to a crying woman whose
eyes were actually growing smeary whilst she
wept.

She doesn't guess what a face she's
making,' said Mark. ' But I shall at least
have the advantage of seeing her au naturel

when the paint is all gone. It can't last long
at this rate.' And all the while he was soothing
her and patting her hand, and making
the most chivalrous love in the world.

No, Marco,' she said at length, ' you do
not love me. You do not care to be alone
with me.'

Caterina ! ' said Mark, upbraidingly.

No,' she said, ' you do not, or why should
you have brought that stupid innocent this
afternoon. If it had not been for him I
should not have been angry, and then I
should not have quarrelled with Tito, and then
I should not have come here to scold and cry.
Why did you bring him ? '

Caterina,' said Mark, * listen to me and

be reasonable. Tito is growing jealous., and

I brought my cousin as a blind. I am not

very much of a coward, but if Signer Malfi

is to be hanged at all I prefer that he should

be hanged for killing somebody else.'

q2

Do you think Tito guesses that you love
me ? ' she asked.

'I know it,' he answered, scarcely able
to suppress a smile. The swarthy Signor's
jealousy was a little more urgent than Mark's
affection. Mark knew that, and he had a
keen sense of humour.

'Marco,' cried the Signora, 'he is dangerous.'


As the words left her lips there came a
loud knocking at the door, and she sprang to
her feet with a suppressed scream.

Be quiet,' said Mark, calmly. He kicked
off his shoes and crept out to reconnoitre, and
when he came back he was a trifle pale.
Tito ! ' he said in a whisper, and the Signora
looked about her like one in deadly terror.
You are safe enough,' said Mark, seizing herby
the shoulders and shaking her pretty sharply
to bring her to herself. ' Come this way.
Step lightly. Take off your shoes. Now take

them in your hand. This way.' He himself
seized her hat and cloak, and stepping like a
ghost, led the way into the hall. The main
door opened upon a double set of chambers,
one of which was empty and unlet. Mark,
who liked to know things, had found that one
of his keys fitted the lock, and being as cool
as a cucumber in this somewhat awkward
strait (directly the first shock was over), he
called this fact to mind and utilised it. There
was another loud knocking at the outer door
as Mark stooped to apply his key. He took
advantage of the noise to move quickly, and
thrusting the Sis-nora into the cold darkness of
the next hall, he closed the door, whipped back
into his own room on tiptoe, pulled on his
slippers, threw off his overcoat, hastily disordered
his hair before the mirror, and walked
out to meet his visitor.

He opened the door, and casting both
arms in the air, yawned portentously.

Is that you, Malfi ? ' lie asked in a sleepy
voice. ' Ugh ! How cold it is. Come in. I
am glad to see you. One gets diabolically dull
of an evening sitting all alone, and I must
have fallen asleep. I heard a knocking and
dreamed that I was at the siege of Sevastopol.'

CHAPTER X.

The swarthy fat man looked hard at Mark
and listened to his speech without reply.
His breathing was thick and heavy, though
Mark had given him ample time to recover
from any bodily distress the mounting of the
stairs may have caused him. The barrister
cast his arms abroad afresh and yawned as
if he would fall in pieces, and the singer
still stared hard at him without a word.

Come in,' said Mark, with admirable
calmness. ' Don't stand there in the cold.'

Signor Malfi without a word walked in
and Mark closed the door behind him.

Is there anything the matter ? ' asked
Mark, appearing suddenly to notice the singular

pallor which lay on the singer's dark
skin, and the remarkable expression of his
eyes. Malfi looked round the room deliberately
and his stertorous breathing sounded
noisily distinct in the silence of the place.
Why man,' cried Mark, ' you look as if you
had seen a ghost.'

Signor Malfi surveyed him darkly for a
moment, and still without a word took up a
candlestick which stood upon the mantel-shelf,
and set it upon the table. Mark saw that his
hand shook slightly as he drew a case of vesta
from his pocket, and striking one of the
matches, held its flame to the wick of the
candle. As a matter of course Mark knew
what was going to happen, but he was not
such a fool as not to be downright amazed by
the Italian's proceedings.

My dear Malfi,' said Mark, in well-acted
wonder and commiseration, 'what is the
matter ? What can I do for you ? '

Sio^iior Main threw the vesta into the fire,
took up the candlestick, and walked into the
hall, Mark following. The singer having
examined the fastenings of the door, shot the
two bolts, which had almost rusted into the
sockets with long disuse.

Are you mad ? ' said Mark, seizing him by
the shoulder. ' Speak. Tell me what is the
matter, and what you want ? '

I shall find what I want,' said Signer
Malfi, opening his lips for the first time, and
nodding at the barrister with a wicked look.

The Signora heard the shriek of the rusty
bolts, heard Mark's questions and Malfi's
answer, and scarcely dared to breathe as she
listened, crouching behind the door.

Come, now,' said Mark, with the air of a
man who is beginning to find it hard to keep
his temper. ' What do you want? If my
opinion is worth anything you want a strait-waistcoat.'


Come with me,' said Malfi, looking at him
with half-closed eyes. ' I will show you what
I want.'

He walked back along the hall, and
stooping at the sitting-room door found a
key in the lock. He closed the door and
turned the key, and then, light in hand,
made for the little kitchen where the laundress
left her work undone as a matter of daily
routine.

You madman ! ' cried Mark. ' Standstill.'
He swung the Italian round and looked
at him with searching inquiry. ' Tell me what
you want,' he said, slowly and deliberately, as
if to carry understanding to a mind not easily
apprehensive of ideas. ' Tell me what you
want, or I shall have to call for the police and
see you taken care of. You must know that
you are not acting like a man who is in
possession of his faculties. Now,' gently and
coaxingly, ' what do you want ? '

Bah ! ' said Malfi, with a sudden flash of
light in his sickly, half-closed eyes. ' Do not
play With me. Let me go. Oh, yes, yes, yes,
yes, yes ! Your eyes are made to look honest
enough, but I can see the lie behind them.
Let me go.'

What do you want ? ' asked Mark. ' What
do you mean by walking into my apartments
in this way ? Tell me. I will endure no more
of this folly

'My good friend,' returned Signor Malfi,
with a very singular smile, ' you will endure me
until I have made my search and have found
what I want. When that is done I will go,
but not before.'

Mark cast his hands abroad in a sort of
resigned desperation.

Very well,' he said. ' You must have
your way, I suppose. What do you want to
look for ? Where do you expect to find it ?
Go on and have done with it. Mad ! ' said

Mark in an inward-sounding voice. Mad !
quite mad ! '

You are a very good actor,' said Signor
Malfi, nodding at him. Something of the look
of certainty the Italian's face had hitherto
worn faded from it as Mark returned his gaze.
With nearly all men the assumption of a
facial expression begets an answering inward
emotion. The genuine pretender is more
easily affected in this way than another, and
Mark had now so long been looking amazement
at his visitor that he almost bes^an to
feel it. He only waved his hands in answer as
if to say that this obvious madman must be
borne with and humoured for a moment.

Malfi pushed by him with a look of
Renewed decision, and Mark followed, interrupting
him no more, but standing resignedly
by. The Italian's search was
complete enough, but it led to nothing. He
prowled over the whole place, candlestick in

hand, and the owner of the chambers, having
lit a cigarette by this time, followed him with
an aspect of resigned boredom, as of one who
had given up wonder.

Now will you tell me what you wanted ? '
he asked.

Where have you hidden her ? ' demanded
Malfi, with an ugly coolness.

Oh,' said Mark, ' there is a lady in the
case ! My good sir, I am not so honoured or
so blest as to have a lady in these poor rooms
of mine just now. Pray complete your search
if you are still unconvinced. Take your time,
and do not allow me to stand at all in your
way.'

So saying he sat down in the arm-chair,
threw himself comfortably back into it and
crossed his legs.

Where have you hidden her ? ' asked
Malfi again, with the same threatening quietude
of manner.

' My good friend,' said Mark. ' My rooms
are perfectly open to you, and you may look
through them until you are satisfied. As a
mere affair of detail, I should like to know of
whom you are in search. Do I know the
lady'

This once,' said Malfi, ' you have baffled
me. But you have not changed my mind, and
what I knew before I came here I know still.
I shall go now '

Thank you, sir,' said Mark, sweetly.

But before I go I will tell you that I am
not a man to be played with. If I killed you
here in England they would hang me, and I
do not want to be hanged. You will do me a
favour, therefore, if you will keep out of my
way.'

You do yourself less than justice,'
answered Mark, with his sinister smile. Easily
as he seemed to take it all, he watched the
Italian as a cat a mouse, and stretching

out a lazy hand to a little drawer in his
writing desk, he drew out a toy revolver.
Signor Malfi,' he said playing with the pistol
as he spoke, * I should be a fool if I pretended
not to understand you clearly. I should not
be a man of honour if I treated you simply
with the contempt your conduct deserves, and
left you to the misery of your own mad fancies.
It is likely enough that you will not believe
me, but I declare — not for your sake but for
hers — that I am innocent of any design against
your domestic peace — that I esteem your wife
too highly to approach her with any other
sentiments than those of respect and friendship.'


Yes,' said Malfi. ' It is not difficult to lie.'
He moved towards the door, speaking loudly.
And if she is within reach of my voice, as I
believe she is, she will know, as you know,
that I am a dangerous man to cross.

You are an amusing vagabond,' said Mark

lightly, as he rose to follow hin. ' Gooch-night.
If I am troubled by you in future I shall apply
to the police — not for protection — but for
delivery from a nuisance. On the other hand,
Signor, you may rely upon me to trouble your
domestic bliss no further. May I ask you
to draw back the bolts ? Thank you. Goodnight.
Allow me to turn up the gas a little.
You may find the stairs dark, and I would not
willingly disappoint your friend the hangman.
Good-night.'

To all this Signor Malfi answered not
one word, and Mark, closing the door behind
him, set his eye to the narrow crevice at
the top of the lower panel and watched his
burly figure as he went downstairs. Then,
after a little pause, he drew out his keys,
and stealthily and silently unlocked the door
of the next set of rooms. The Signor, Mark
reflected, might still be listening. He was
out of sight and hearing after the first turn

ill the stone staircase, and Mark was disposed
to be wary after what had happened.

Caterina slipped towards him out of the
darkness like a ghost. She was paled with
cold as well as fear, and when she opened
her lips to speak, Mark laid a finger on his
own and motioned her in silence to the
sittings-room.

He is gone ? ' she asked in a terror-stricken
whisper as she crouched above the
fire.

He is gone,' Mark answered, slipping
back the toy revolver into its drawer and
seating himself calmly.

Marco,' she said, ' he is dangerous.
What shall I do ? How dare I return to
him ? He knows that I am here.'

He thinks so,' said Mark tranquilly,
lighting a new cigarette at the fire of the
old one.

Marco,' said the Signora, turning on her

VOL. I. R

knees before him, ' you are very cold tome.'
Mark shrugged his shoulders and
smoked. ' Give me a kind word, Marco,
after all this danger for your sake.'

My dear child,' said Mark quietly, ' love-making
is a very pretty pastime, without
doubt. But in this case I scarcely care for
it. I was never of a romantic turn of mind,
and as I grow older I grow more matter
of fact. I care more for peace and a quiet
mind than I used to do.'

The Signora, still kneeling before him,
glanced at his face keenly with a miserably
hungry look growing upon her own. This
cynical and heartless young man had somehow
reached to what heart she had. After
all, it does come to most people at one time
or another to pin a heart to somebody, to
:set soul and faith and purpose all on someone
creature. And sooner or later, except
to the very happiest (and the truest) the

golden dream grows grey, and faith is seen
misplaced — your* kohinoors and emeralds
of Kandahar are profitless pebbles and
beads of glass, and you break your
heart or turn stupid according to your
nature. Take the world round and it is
probable enough that love is a vice of the
blood, and a permission of the will much
oftener than the romanist cares to fancy.
And yet love reigns, and is king of all
the passions still, and will be till the whole
world's summers have deceased.

It was never profitable to tell some sort
of stories, which are now happily, by growth
of civilisation, taste, and heart, grown quite
unprintable in England. It would serve
no purpose worth serving to tell the story
of the Signora Caterina Malfi here. It had
been in the main an evil story, though, as
it affected her until now, not by any means
a sad one, and all through most unwomanly

womanly. Probably, until she met Mark
Carroll she had never known that she had
a heart at all, and he was but a poor god
before whom to throw it when she found
it. But you must allow sincerity of worship
in the blindest idolater. Have there been no
raptures of uplifted spirits before the ugly and
foolish gods of India, and Egypt, and Great
Britain ?

A pure life is much for a man. For a
woman it is almost everything. It would be
but a poor service to Caterina and her like
if her historian should paint her as having
a love as worthy to bestow as another woman
might offer. And yet it was all she
had, and the first she had known of goodness
and purity. Everything is comparative,
and in this case the purity of womanly passion
was all the more amazing by contrast with
previous old experiences.

Is love-making no more than a pastime.

Marco ?' she asked. She had been terribly
frightened, but a great fear will fly before
a greater. Nothing the swarthy Signor could
do could hurt her like a doubt of Mark.
Mark shrugged his shoulders and went on
smoking. ' Is love no more than a pastime,
Marco,' she asked again, ' with you and
me ? '

My child,' said he, placidly dispelling
a little cloud of smoke by a wave of his
hand, ' the play is played out. We will
close the box and put up the puppets. You
don't know Thackeray, do you ? ' he asked
in English, with an attempt at a smile.

The play is played out ? ' .she asked.
Marco, you do not mean you do not love
me? That we '

Love,' said Mark, ' is a charming word,
and in its way a charming thing. But it
has a tender and delicate life, and often
dies early. In plain Italian, my good Caterina,

I am not going to run the chance of finding
an Italian dagger in my ribs to oblige any
lady, however charming she may be.'

Well,' she said, with wonderful quiet,
tell me everything. Say all you have to
say.'

There's a sensible girl,' said Mark. ' We
go our ways, my dear, that's all: you yours,
I mine. As for love, I have loved a time
or two before this, and shall love again. And
so I fancy have you, and so will you again.'

He expected tears and protestations, in
accordance with the history of old days. He
had seen that sort of thing before, and disliked
it excessively because it bored him.
But Caterina only rose to her feet and confronted
him silently.

You have some little toilette to make,' said
Mark, pointing to the boots and hat and mantle,
which all lay together in a disorderly heap upon
the carpet. ' Whilst you make it I will see if

the coast is clear. I am not altogether certain
but that our mutual friend is waiting round the
corner with a carving-knife in readiness for
both of us.'

She said not a word, and he pulled on his
shoes and overcoat, took his hat and gloves
from the table, and with a word to say that he
would return in a moment, left her. She
heard the door close, and listened to his step
until it grew inaudible, but lie never moved
until he came back again.

He has resigned the chase, Caterina,' said
he as he re-entered. ' I am afraid he will be
unamiable when you meet, but you have had
Experience of him long ago, and you will know
how to manage him. Not ready yet .^ Do not
allow me to disturb you. I am in no haste.'

You mean all this .^ ' she asked slowly and
quietly. ' You can cast me off like this .^ You
could swear for a month or two that you love
me, and could take all I had left to give, and

then throw me away because you are afraid to
hold me ? '

'I thought I had explained it all quite
clearly,' said Mark.

You could look so like truth,' she said,
and yet be such a liar.'

My good Caterina,' he answered, ' you and
I, who know the world, are wise enough by this
time, and experienced enough to understand
each other.'

You swore,' she said, ' that you loved me.'

And you that you loved me,' said Mark.
And we agreed to believe each other.'

And you never loved me ? '

My dear,' he cried, ' you are a very charming
and accomplished woman. Even without
beauty your understanding would make you
irresistible. Even without wit your beauty would
conquer anything with a heart inside it. I recognised
your intellect and I did homage to your
beauty. I do both still. But I am something of

a philosopher, Caterina, and I am apt to weigh
the vahie of a thing to me before I pay a price
for it.'

And love is not worth the price ? You
are afraid of Tito ? '

I am not afraid of anybody,' he answered

with the same calm and flippant tone. ' But I

am not a fool. At least,' he added with a laugh,

' I am not fool enough to pay so much for '

So little ? ' she asked, filling up the pause.

Precisely,' he responded. ' Although for
gallantry's sake I searched for a prettier
phrase.'

You mean,' she said, ' that I am and have
been no more to you than any other woman
you may find .^ That I have been a month's
toy to you, and nothing more ? '

My child,' said Mark a little fretfully,
I don't want to say a lot of things that are
unconventional, and — true ; unless you force
me. AVe have played out our play very

pleasantly, and I am heartily sorry that the
curtain falls so soon. But I — you know — I
am a battered old man of the world, as young
as I look, and you have had experiences. Let
us do justice to ourselves and to each other.
Let us recognise the hand of the inevitable,
and part in peace.'

Marco,' she said, ' it will be bitter to have
to hate you ? '

Then why try to do it ? ' he asked. ' I
don't hate you because I have to part from
you, and you have as good a reason for leaving
me as I have for leaving you.'

And I have loved you ! ' she said, with
such a bitterness and intensity in her quiet
tones that he began to be half afraid of her,
and to think her made of some other metal
than he had fancied. ' You ! I have lived all
these years in the world without loving anybody,
and I must needs love you at the end
of it all. Ah, well, Marco ! I am going now,

and you may think that you have done with
me. You thought Tito dangerous, you poor
coward, because a woman said so. You will
find me more dangerous than Tito.'

Mark laughed softly and took another
cigarette. Passion does not always show itself
in romantic ways, and the Signora sat calmly
down and drew on her discarded boots,
arranged her hair before the glass, tied on
her hat, and adjusted her mantle and her
gloves, all in the most business-like qulBliide.

I thought I had found a man at last,'
she said then, facing round upon lira, ' and
I gave him all the heart I had to give. I
would have loved you like a dog. I would
have let you beat me and starve me for a word
of love a year.'

My dear,' said Mark, ' you prepare the
way for your antithesis most eloquently. You
are going to say that you hate me now, as well
as you ever loved me, are you not ? '

I am going to say,' she cried, ' that I will
repay you.'

'For what?' asked Mark. 'You have
really cost me very little.'

I will repay you,' she said again. ' I will
repay you. And now let me go, if you please.
I cannot kill you here, but I will bide my time.'

I am reprieved for awhile, then,' Mark
answered, reading the way to the door. ' Goodbye,
Caterina. I am really very sorry to have
to say it, but when you come to think, you will
see how much wiser it is for both. Good-bye.'

You ! ' she cried, flashing suddenly upon
him with a vivid and terrible passion in her
face and voice. ' You ! To have thrown a
heart away on you ! '

An error, Caterina ! ' Mark answered, ' a
fatal error.'

Yes,' she said, with sudden quiet, ' a fatal
error. Let me pass. Good-night.'

He stood awhile to watch her as she went

slowly down the stairs. She was undeniably a
line woman, and lie was sorry enough to lose her.

Like most of those southern women,' he
said ; ' she has a bit of the tiger in her. I
wonder, Mark, if your unworthy person excited
any real passion in her — there is such a thing
unless all men and books do lie, and most of
them do — or whether she wanted a little bit of
play-acting at the finish. I hope at least,' he
concluded with a laugh, ' that she won't carry
melodrama into action. I shall be out of the
frying-pan into the fire indeed if I have a
pair of daggers waiting for me instead of one.'

This prospect so tickled him that whilst he
washed his hands and face and dressed for the
streets, he chuckled half a dozen times about
it. The Signora with a resolute step marched
westward in the meantime, and the Signor,
standing in the shadow of Temple Bar, saw her
emerge from the Temple archway, and followed
in her footsteps.

CHAPTER XI.

It is not easy to believe that there were m any-better
men in the world than Mr. Anthony
Bethesda. It is certain that there were few
indeed whose outer man bore so plain a sign
of inward virtue. He had a large and well-formed
body, plump but not corpulent ; a
large and well-formed head, and large and well-formed
features. He was not in holy orders,
but he looked as though no other hne of life
were appropriate to him, and he wore black
clothes of the usual low church clerical or
dissenting-ministerial cut. His white tie was
large and spotless. His fat hands caressed one
another, and his face was an index to his heart.
It was rarely to be seen without a smile upon

it — a smile humble and benevolent — a smile
which said distinctly ' God forgive me,' and in
the self-same curve of lip and eyed, 'The
Lord bless you my Christian brother.'

This good man worshipped at a large,
square-built chapel in the south of London,
and was by all accounted a shining light and a
model of the Christian virtues.

Taking his walks abroad one London
autumn morning;, Mr. Bethesda saw in the near
neighbourhood of his favourite chapel a big
van discharging furniture at the door of a little
house. A florid, grey-haired man of country
aspect was superintending the unloading, and
a middle-aged woman of decent middle-class
exterior was assisting a very pretty girl in the
porterage of light articles from the big van to
the little house. Mr. Bethesda paused a
moment to look on with an aspect of benevolent
interest. No man need search his mind for
apologies on the ground that he finds it pleasant

to look at youth and beauty, and Mr. Bethesda
was a widower and old enough to be the girl's
father. At that hour of the day this outlying
London street was very quiet. From half-past
seven to half-past eight in the morning it was
always lively enough, except on Sundays, and
brisk enough again from six to seven in the
evening, for at those times the tide of clerks
and shorten ebbed and flowed. At other
hours the policeman, the baker, the costermonger,
the postman, and the muslin-man came
alone to break the stillness of a desert solitude.
Apart from those who were personally
concerned ivith the big van, Mr. Bethesda was
the only creature in the street, and he was
therefore noticeable. The pretty girl, with her
hair escaping somewhat from its confining net,
a flush of clear colour on her face, and a
pleased excitement in her eyes, was emerging
from the doorway, when she caught the goodman's
smile. Her face clouded curiously, and

turning abruptly, she withdrew into the house.
mr. Bethesda lingered for a moment longer.
He had more than a fatherly eye for a nice-looking
girl, had Mr. Bethesda, and perhaps
the young woman might return. Whilst he
stood there the two men in charge of the van
lugged to the mouth of it, with infinite trouble,
a great old-fashioned wardrobe of black oak,
and attempted to lower it to the ground. The
weight was too much for them, and they called
for help. The grey, florid man emerged from
the house and lent a pair of hands.

It is a Christian duty to help a neighbour,'
said Mr. Bethesda, advancing.

So I have heard,' replied the florid man
drily, with an odd, distrustful side way look at
him.

Allow me,' said the good man, either not
observing or disregarding the other's manner.

Nobody objected to his assistance, and he
lifted as strongly as the rest. The pretty girl

VOL. I. S

was visible at the end of the passage, and it
was evident that she took a keen interest in
this proceeding. It is curious to notice how
little will interest people who have not seen
much of the world.

The ponderous old oak wardrobe was a fair
weight even for four men to carry, and Mr.
Bethesda was red in the face as he tottered at
his own corner. Suddenly there was a trip,
a stagger, and a cry. The grey-haired, florid
man was down upon his back on the stone
pavement ; the man who had shared the load at
that end was on his knees, and the weight had
fallen with a sickening crash upon the prostrate
iio^ure.

'Father!' shrieked the girl, running
forward. The man made no response. They
moved the weight from his body and bore him
indoors, but not before that part of the street
was crowded with people who had suddenly
sprung from nowhere. Mr. Bethesda entered

with the two men of the van, but he seemed
as helpless as the rest, and could do nothing
but gape and stare with fatuous ' Dear me's I '
Somebody ran for a doctor, and brought him
elbowing his way through the crowd. A
policeman, sprung from nowhere like the rest,
stationed himself at the door and kept off
intruders.

Ladies,' said the doctor to the distracted
girl and no less distracted mother, ' I must ask
you to retire for the moment. You can be of
use, perhaps,' turning to Mr. Bethesda. ' Officer
close that door, and drive those fools away.
Now.'

The women waited in the hall outside the
closed door, wrinorino; their hands or holding
to each other, and the minutes crawled like
hours. When at last the doctor confronted
them he was grave and had little to say. The
injured man was still unconscious. It would
be best to take him to the hospital. He would
8 2

receive completer attention there than elsewhere.


Both the wife and daughter fought against
this and would hear nothing of it. What could
be done was done, and Mrs. Moore and her
daughter Azubah sat down to watch the
mainstay of the house, to see if haply he could
ever be so patched again as to prop their
humble roof tree any more.

This was Michael Moore's London homecoming,
and to be brief about a mournful
business, the outcome of it was that the
hale farmer was crippled for life, and Mr.
Anthony Bethesda became the household
guide, philosopher, and friend.

The farmer mended slowly, and his wife
and daughter had deceptive hopes of him, but
he never got further towards health and
strength than to sit in a Bath-chair to be
wheeled about the streets on sunny afternoons.
Now sickness, more than any other form of

domestic extravagance, makes inroads upon the
purse, and the four or five hundred pounds the
farmer had saved out of the wreck of his
affairs began to melt with terrible rapidity.
When the Bath-chair was bought and the
doctors were paid the two women sat down
above the scanty accounts and looked at each
other with foreboding faces.

'Zubah,' said the mother, beginning to cry
and to embrace her daughter, 'what can we
do ? What can we do ? ' The girl offered no
answer. ' We can just manage to live for a
year, perhaps, and there's your father can
never do a hand's turn again, and what can we
do at the end of it ? I'm afraid as you'll have
to go out to service, my dear, though I never
looked forwards to any of ours coming down so
low as that. Miss Lording 'ud give you a
place to be her maid, 'Zubah, and that 'ud be
something off our shoulders.' Still the girl
made no response. ' I'm* afraid, 'Zubah, as

your pride '11 never let you do that till you're
forced to it.'

My pride will not stand in my way,
mother,' said Azubah, quietly, ' but I cannot
help you and father by going into service.
What are you to do when the year is over ? '

'Perhaps Squire Carroll 'ud help us,' said
the poor woman,

Mother,' said the girl, ' haven't you heard
father say over and over again that he
wouldn't accept a favour at Mr. Carroll's
hands ? We must help ourselves.'

And now,' said Mrs. Moore, ' my own
child's a-turning contrary.'

No, no, dear,' answered her daughter,
in a tone half-soothing and half-authoritative.
We must be honourable, and we must
support ourselves. I shall find something todo
in less than a year which will keep us all.'

Lord o' mercy ! ' cried the mother, ' what
can you do to keep us all ? '

• I have done something akeucly, mother,'
said Azubah. ' Not much, but something — a
beginning. There is a paid choir at St. John's
Church, and I saw an advertisement for a
soprano — a treble, you know — and I answered
it yesterday morning, and the curate heard me
sing. He has the management of the choir,
and he engaged me. It's not much, but
twelve pounds a year is better than nothing
at all, and it may lead to other things. There
will be church concerts, and if I sing at them
I am to have a guinea each time. I didn't tell
you before,, dear, because I wanted to surprise
you.'

'My dear,' said the mother, 'you'll never
ha' the courage to sing afore a churchill of
folks.'

Oh, yes,' answered Azubah, tranquilly.
It was very unpleasant to have to sing to
a stranger yesterday. But the more people
there are to sing to, the easier it is. And,

mother, another reason why I didn't tell you
was that I wanted the first quarter's money to
pay for singing lessons.'

My dear, my dear ! ' cried the mother,
'we can't afford no such toying with Providence.
We want to keep every penny we can
get;

Mother,' said the girl, ' you remember
young Mr. Carroll ? '

Surely.'

'You know how much he knew about
music, and he always told me that if I liked
to practise I should make a singer. I must
try.'

Your uncle Joshua had a lovely countertenor
in his day,' said Mrs. Moore, who was a
readily hopeful and easily desponding woman, '
an' your grandmother used to sing fribble in
the old church at Overhill so as you could hear
her all over the building'. The voice is a gift,
and it runs in families. That's a thing as has

been lyell understood always. A voice is a
gift as runs in families.'

Mother,' said the girl, anxiously, ' I feel so
sure of being able to do something in that way
for father and yourself, and there is so little
time to be lost. I could go on improving all
the time if you could let me have a little
money to pay for lessons now instead of
waiting a quarter of a year. I can pay you
back again. There will be concerts at the
church schools, and if I sing well they may
lead to people asking me to sing at others. I
will work hard, dear : I will indeed.'

The mother shook her head, but the denial
was feeble, and her easily hopeful soul began
to conjure up visions of her daughter as a
great lady — almost like Jenny Lind, who was
the one singer of note she had ever heard of.

Here is an advertisement,' said the girl,
passing a rapid finger over the columns of a
newspaper ; ' the advertisement of an Italian

lady, Signora — Signora — oh, here it is, Signora
Malfi. Italians are always the best teachers,
and Signora Malfi's terms are only ^^o, shillings
for a lesson of an hour.'

Lord o' mercy I ' cried the good woman a
second time, ' five shillings for an hour's squalling
! Does she think folks are made o'
money ? '

But the daughter was the stronger, and
the stronger won, as usual. Mr. Anthony
Bethesda, who brought his Christian smile
into the house with him before the settlement
was half an hour old, was consulted on the
question.

I had not known it was so bad as this,
dear friends,' said Mr. Bethesda ; ' I would
that I had known it earlier. There is a friend
who keeps an office for registration in the City,
and I would willingly have applied to him.
There are temptations in the life upon which
our sister proposes to embark.'

It was a pity, but Aziibah could not be
brought to endure Mr. Bethesda, and whilst
he was talking she left the room. The girl
was eager and enthusiastic, disposed to do
everything she set about at once, and mightily
scornful of the advice of people she did not
like. Her heart was her judgment, and that,
perhaps, was something of a pity also. Where
she loved, she trusted the loved one's opinion
there had never been anybody quite so wise
as her father — where she disliked, the wisdom
of Solomon would have looked unwise. If Mr.
Bethesda thought ill of her scheme the fact was
almost a recommendation to it. It was at least
an incentive to go on with it.

Azubah marched straight out of the house
with the Signora Malfi's address in her purse,
and very little else there. By dint of patient
inquiry and one or two omnibus changes, she
reached the* Signora's residence, saw the lady,
made terms, and actually took lesson Number

One at once. The Sigiiora took the five
shillings, and allowed her to carry away the
bravura to study between lessons. It was then
that Tom and Mark had seen her.

Whether the Italian young woman taught
the English girl much that was of service to
her is an open question, but the pupil worked
devotedly, and made great progress. She was
surprised at first to find that Mr. Bethesda
had business at the West-end of London, but
by-and-by she became used to seeing him, and
even to accepting his casual escort home.
There was not a doubt that Mr. Bethesda was a
very good man, but it happens often in this
topsy-turvy world that the naughty people are
lovable, whilst the good are not, and somehow
the girl and Mr. Bethesda made little progress
towards friendship. Now, the Signora, who
was not good, got on much better with Azubah,
and began to take quite a motherly sort of
interest in her, when, without warning of any

sort, the musical student, calling at Signor
Malfi's lodgings with intent to take the customary
lesson, learned that the Signora had
disappeared — had left England said the landlady.


Azubah being one of those young women
who do things enthusiastically or not at all,
had been full of day-dreams on her journey.
But for those day-dreams it is pretty certain
that she would never have struggled at all, for
it was her truest nature to lie still to dream.
They drew her on, however — pictures of full
houses listening and murmurs of full-handed
plaudits, years away as yet, and pictures of
mother and father happily provided for and
beyond the reach of care. The refusal at Signor
Malfi's door quite froze the genial current of
her soul, and the step which had been elastic in
ascending went down the steps slow and leaden,
and took her dispiritedly to the corner of the
street.

Miss Moore,' said a voice there, and Azubah
looking up, saw the Signora. ' They told you I
was gone away ? ' she asked.

Yes,' said the girl in amazement.

I have quarrelled,' said the Signora, ' with
my husband. It will all be soon over, and I
am not angry any more. He is angry yet. He
is, like Italians, hot and jealous. I knew you
would come, and I did not want you to be disappointed,
and I had not your address. Therefore
I came, and I am glad I saw you.^

Azubah was instantaneously certain that the
Signora had been shamefully wronged. She
was very glad to meet the swarthy lady, and
shook hands with her warmly. What wretches
men were, to be sure !

I dare not let Tito see me now,' said
the Signora. ' I am living half a mile away.
If you will come to me I will give you your
lessons.'

She would go certainly and help to defy

Tito and all his works. Five shillings a week
was not much, but it was something, and she
at least could be loyal to a woman in distress.
The Signora was voluble in broken English on
the way, and the girl's heart warmed at the
recital of her wrongs.

I will go upon the stage,' said Caterina
in a while, ' and there I can keep myself. A
lady can keep always herself upon the stage.'

They were in the new rooms by this time,
in a house in the neighbourhood of Publico.
The furniture, which had been extremely
pretentious and gaudy, was dirty and dilapidated
now. A white velvet hearth rug with
broidered roses on it was turned up at the
corners, and its flowers were frayed, and its
whiteness was lost in innumerable stains of
footsteps, ink, and wine. The mantel-shelf was
clothed in ruby velvet, but the pile was mangy,
and rubbed threadbare at the edges of the
shelf as if by lounging shoulders. A man of

the world would have known and read the
signs of the place at a glance — but what was a
girl of eighteen, country bred, to guess about
them ?

But you cannot play in English,' said
Azubah, in answer to Caterina's last speech.

I shall sing,' said Caterina. She flung the
piano open and began a vocal storm, shrieking
through trills and melodies with amazing
volume and shrillness. Azubah had never been
at all inclined up to now to lay bare her hopes
and desires to anybody, but there was that in
the Signora's apparent helplessness and her
loneliness, and most of all in her ambitions,
which prompted the girl for the first time in
her life to make a confidante. So when the
shrieking melodies and trills were done with,
she spoke and told her own story,

'You will sing well,' cried the Signora,
when you have had more lessons. It is not
harder for two than it is for one. We will

learn duets and sing them at the concerts
together. You are white, and pale, and
sorrowful, you little English flower,' she said,
kissing Azubah, emphatically, ' and now it is
plain the reason why. And you are good, and
that is why I like you.'

A week earlier the girl would have resented
Caterina's caresses almost as much as those of a
man, but now the Signora was in trouble and
Azubah's heart warmed to her. Besides, this
promise seemed to open up a way to her
ambitions. The whole afternoon was spent in
practice, and when the five shillings came to be
paid, the Italian woman took them lingeringly
as though she would fain refuse them.

When Azubah paid her next visit a little
fat man with a bald head, ruddy lips, and beady
eyes sat in the Signora's sitting-room listening
to her as she sang.

'This is my lady friend,' said the Signora,
bouncing from the piano when her song was

VOL. I. T

done, and embracing Azubah vehemently.
This, my child, is Mistare Moss ; he is of the
how do you say, Mistare Moss ? '

The Megatherium,' said Mr. Moss, turning
the m's into b's.

'It is very good place to sing at,' said
Caterina, ' is it not, Mistare Moss ? '

It is one of the best in London,' said Mr.
Moss, noisily. ' It's not so long established as
some of 'em, but what we want there is genuine
talent. We're open to give genuine talent a
start in almost any direction.'

Let my lady friend sing,' said the Signora,
'then we will sing a duetto together.' She
turned to Azubah, ' Let Mr. Moss hear you.'

Azubah took off her gloves and sat down at
the piano with a beating heart. What did
she knows The Megatherium Concert Hall
was quite outside her experiences, and the
gentleman said it was one of the best places to
m\^y at in London. Through him might lie

the avenue to fortune. Her fingers touched
the keys firmly and lightly. The piano had
seen its best days certainly, but it was fairly in
tune, and its voice gave her new confidence.
She began to sing 'As pants the hart for
cooling streams when heated in the chase.'
The Signora listened doubtfully and glanced at
Mr. Moss.

Very dice, miss,' said Mr. Moss. ' Very
dice indeed, but not the Begatheriub style.
We don't go id for religious busie there. Trjr
again. Subthig lighter if you please — subthig
operatic'

Azubah's more familiar music was mostly
antiquated, and after the Signora she was
afraid to try the something operatic. Her
own mellow and liquid-sounding tones fell on
the ear with double sweetness after the shrill
notes of Caterina 's voice, but she did not guess
that, and was afraid of being overmatched. So
she chose Barnett's old-fashioned * Else, gentle

T 2

Moon and sang it so well that Mr. Moss
applauded softly.

'Yes, miss,' he said, 'that will do. Try
again. A ballad is the sort of thing to suit
you, I fancy. Try a ballad.' She tried a
ballad. ' Not quite the stage style,' said Mr.
Moss. 'A little broader and then you'll do.
A beetle broader. Well, ladies, I shall have no
objection to give you an opportunity. You can
have a week begiddig on Monday text, two
turns a-piece. Tied, if you suit us, we can talk
about terra afterwards. The opening,' he continued,
' is valuable, of course, but we don't ask
for anything in the way of premium. We
give you a chance od your merits.'

Whether Mr. Moss were a gentleman or
not Azubah could not tell. He was not in the
least like Squire Carroll, or his son Tom, or the
Vicar, or the Curate at Overhill, or Mr.
Lording, the father of her old patroness and
friend. He wore a prodigious deal of jewellery

and lie was not particularly clean about the
hands ; but little as the girl knew, she had
heard that artists were often untidy. Mr. Moss
no doubt mixed much with artists even if he
himself were not of the brotherhood, and
perhaps he had caught their manners and
customs. And how fortunate she herself was
to have found such a chance so soon ! If she
succeeded — oh, if she only could succeed !
Father and mother need never want for anything?.
Her fortune was made and theirs
along with it. The Signora was confident of
taking the world by storm now that she had at
last secured an opportunity for making her
voice heard. Opera managers all over Europe
had been blind to the treasure they had
thrown away. Whatever faults Tito had, he
could sing and he knew what singing should be.
Tito had always been indignant at the blindness
of the managers.

Arrangements Avere completed with busi-

ness-like brevity, and Azubali found herself
pledged to sing nightly for a week before an
audience of whom she knew nothing. The
Signora had earned the right to kiss her and
to be friendly with her, having secured her
this unexampled piece of good fortune. But the
girl's head was turning and her heart was beating
with it all as she went home that evening.

You oughtn't to be going out at night
alone, my dear,' said her mother anxiously,
when she heard the news. ' And yet your
father isn't in a case to be left for an hour.'

'Signora Malfi is going as well,' said
Azubah. ' I shall be quite safe with her.'

Signora Malfi,' sounded grandly on the
unsophisticated country woman's ears, and Mrs.
Moore knew already that Signor Malfi was
or had been a singer at Her Majesty's Opera,
and naturally set him down as being somehow
on the Royal staff*, and more or less intimately
associated with the Queen herself. So that

the association of her daughter with these
high personages was altogether a thing to be
thankful for. Not that she thought much of
foreigners as a rule, but Her Majesty's
foreigners Avere necessarily superior to the
crowd.

The girl had little difficulty with her
mother, who was more proud than anxious,
but she had many tremors in her own behalf.
The wished-for, dreaded night came at last,
and lie hastened to the Signora's rooms, thereto
dress by appointment. Caterina, with bare
arms and shoulders glittering with powder,
stood aghast at the plainness of her protege's
attire ; but it was too late to change it, even
if Azubah had had the wardrobe of a princess —
which she had not.

The Signora, with all her finery carefully
shawled, led the way and called a four-wheeler,
and the two were driven to the Megatherium
stage-door. Mr. Moss's duties happening to

have called him there at that moment, he
received them.

Good evening, ladies. Glad to see you.
You can have a dressing-room between you tomorrow.
I'll see to it. Come this way.'

It was all unaccustomed and strange to
Azubah, who began to feel curiously nervous
and elevated by turns. The dust, the dirt, the
bare plastered walls, the slips of scenery,
lines of rope, coils of gas tubing, the olla
podrida of stage, odds and ends made an unpleasant
impression upon her. She had never
so much as read a description of the view behind
the scenes, and had expected something like a
vestry at church or a school committee-room to
wait in. There was the sound of a big band
from the front, and in the frowsy green-room a
man and a woman in grotesque attire and
painted faces awaited their call. In a minute
the tones of the band softened down and a
raucous voice began to sing. The voice and

the tune were things to shudder at, but the
words were undistinguishable. After frequent
repetition of the air the voice ceased, a great
noise of applause was heard, and a young man
put in his head at the doorway and nodded
familiarly at the grotesquely-dressed couple.
This young man was in evening dress, and his
lower man looked passable, but he wore a
fiery-red wig and his face was painted in
exaggerated semblance of a drunkard's.

See you at Bobbos's, shan't I ? ' he asked.
I've sent the office to Bill and Judy. Ta-tar.'

Altogether, except for the near neighbourhood
of the band, it was extremely unlike an
evening concert, and Azubah was puzzled and
dispirited.

The Deutchers ! ' cried a small boy,
thrusting his ragged head under the young
man's arm. The grotesquely-dressed people
passed out and the band began again. The
Deutchers appeared to score a great success, for

they returned twice to the stage, amid resounding
plaudits. Again Azubah heard the voices,
and was inclined to think but little of the vocal
powers of the singers at the Megatherium.
Was it at all the place Mr. Moss had represented
it as being ?

Snore Catherine ! ' cried the ragged-headed
boy when the Deutchers had completed
their third ditty. The Signora arose and
slipped her shawl from her gleaming shoulders.
As she passed through the doorway another
figure or two appeared — one lady in tights and
a remarkably short dress, and another in appropriate
concert costume. Azubah listened for
her friend's voice and heard it shriller and
higher and louder than ever, ringing through
the place to the accompaniment of a piano.
There was a noise of applause at the close of
her song, and she swept radiant to the door
of the green-room, nodded, and swept back
again. She sang a second time, and the

applause was louder than before. Then, after
a long interval, during which the band played
the same air over and over again monotonously,
to the sole accompaniment so far as Azubah's
ears could tell her of an irregular thumping
upon the platform, the ragged-headed boy
made another appearance.

Mam'selle Mora,' said the boy.

Go,' said Caterina, pushing her gently.
That is you. Here is your first song. Why
do you shake so ? Go. I will go with you.'

There were other people in the room
again, and the Signora spoke in a whisper.
Azubah obeyed her, and almost before she
knew it found herself upon a stage with a row
of foothghts in front which, for the first
moment or two, obscured the hall beyond.
She heard a piano playing the overture to 'Else,
gentle Moon,' and in due time she began to
sing. At the end of the first verse a man
rapped vigorously with a hammer upon a table,

and there was a faint scattered sound of
applause about the hall. Then her sight came
to her, and she saw a crowded auditors, in
which men sat smoking and drinking. It was
not what she had looked to find, and she felt
debased and degraded, but at least she would
not break down before all these people. She
took up the air at the due time, and sang again
as she had never dared to sing before. The
place seemed so vast to her that she dared, for
the first time in her life, to give her voice full
scope. She disdained the people, and she
hated herself for being there. She would not
strain her power by a thread's breadth to please
them, but the freedom of the long and lofty
hall invited her, and, half to her own amazement,
her voice filled it with sound. The
applause at the end of the second verse was
considerable, and in spite of her disdain and
disappointment at the place and people, she
was conscious of a sense of elation as she

walked from the stage with no answering salute.
It was by pure accident that she went off on
the right side, and met the Signora in the flies.

'Mademoiselle Mora will appear again,'
said a loud voice, and the tapping on the table
began again.

Your music,' whispered the Signora,
thrusting? one roll into her hand and taking
away the other. ' Go. They are ready for
you.'

She walked proudly back with the music
clenched tightly in her gloved hand. She had
been tricked into coming here, though she
scarcely knew whom to blame ; yet, being
here, she would not fail. The pianist began
'The Banks of Allan Water,' and she sang
the llrst verse with conscious power. But as
she opened her lips for the second she saw
directly beneath and before her a face familiar
from childhood, and this so froze her that the
musician had to try back again. The face she

had seen was Mark Carroll's, and her eyes
roving helplessly from his recognising gaze
encountered another glance — Tom Carrots
this time. It would have been bitter enough
to have been seen there by anybody who knew
her when Michael Moore had held his head
high in the world, but to be met there by him,
and to be hopeless of telling him by what an
error she came there, seemed for the moment a
thing too shameful to be borne. The pianist
was nearing the note once more, and she
nerved herself to the task and struggled through
the son^y. She knew that she was sintrinor

O CO

badly, that she was out of time and tune, and
she was prepared for the ominous silence which
met her at the close.

'You'll do better tomorrow,' said Mr.
Moss, kindly enough, as she quitted the stage.

I think it right to tell you, sir,' she
answered quietly, ' that I shall not be here tomorrow.
Signora Malfi,' flashing round upon

her with widening eyes and clenched hands,
how dared you bring me to a place like this ? '

Moore was a very proud fellow,' Tom was
saying to his cousin. ' He would never have
allowed the girl to appear in a place like this
unless something had happened to him. I
must hunt him up.'

Oh,' said Mark, carelessly, ' I suppose the
Signora brought her here. She doesn't sing
badly. It's a bit of an adventure, though, to
find two lady acquaintances on the Megatherium
stage in one evening. Malfi has
kicked the charming Caterina out, I suppose,'
he added to himself. ' That is my fault, and
does me an honour of which I am hardly worthy.
It's a very appropriate line of life for her, and
shell do well at it. These dunderheads fancy
she can sing. The little girl's worth fifty of
her. Mark, I think you must look up the
playmate of your childhood. She's growing
absolutely pretty.'

CHAPTER XII.

When Mark turned after these reflections his
cousin Tom had disappeared.

He'll be back to see Leone,' said Mark,
and thought no more about it. Mademoiselle
Leone (otherwise Mrs. Warehouse) was attracting
all London, more or less, by her mid-air
somersault in full flight from one trapeze bar
to another, and Tom and Mark were there to
see her. The performance came on, and indue
time was over, and Tom had not returned.
In point of fact, Tom had found other business.
He was always a bit of a Quixote, and the
sight of his old playfellow on a music-hall
stage seemed to speak so plainly of some sort
of misfortune that he went out at once to

find out what the misfortune was, and, if it
might be, to alleviate it.

'You can't go in, sir,' said the keeper of
the stage-door, with inflexible aspect.

Take in my card to Miss Moore,' said
Tom, and at a half crown presented with the
card the door-keeper grew suddenly flexible,
quid obeyed. Tom followed in his footsteps,
and by-and-by came upon a scene of quarrel,
in which the persons concerned were the
Sign or a and Mr. Moss.

You cad say what you like,' cried Mr.
Moss, ' it's all the same to me. It's the principle
of the this I go for. The yug woman's billed
for a week, ad she'll have to appear for a week.
She ain't lady particular catch neither, but I'm
going to stick to the bargain.'

Azubah, with an extremely white face, was
trying to get past Mr. Moss, and Mr. Moss by
much adroit dodging frustrated her at every
move.

VOL. I. U •

Allow the lady to pass, if you please
said Tom, in a tone a shade too decided to
sound civil to a stranger. Mr. Moss regarded
him angrily, and demanded to know who he
was and how he came there. These inquiries
were presented with more than necessary
emphasis, and accompanied by some grossness
of expression which where part of Mr.
Moss's common conversational stock-in-trade.
They sounded horrible to the gentleman, used
as they were in the presence of women
Stand aside,' cried Tom. ' Allow me, Miss-moore.'
His command to Mr. Moss was enforced
by a strong but quiet hand ; the girl
took the protecting arm and clung to it, and
she and Tom moved together towards the
stairs which led to the street-door. The
manager in a fury declared that the intruder
should repent this, and roared for a policeman.
Then running forward, he stood half-way down
the stairs to intercept Tom's exit, and a most

unfortunate thing happened. Mr. Moss standing
there bellowing blasphemy and blocking
the way so incensed Tom Carroll that he took
him by the collar and swung him down such
of the stairs as still remained to be traversed.

At this Tom was seized from behind, and
a dreadful hubbub arose, Mr. Moss holding
his nose and cursing through it, the Signora
shrieking from the top of the stairs, and the
whole available talent of the Megatherium
Concert Hall swelling the chorus which accompanied
this duet. In the middle of it all
somebody brought a policeman, and the noise
redoubled, and somehow, when Tom had
tendered his card, they all surged out together
into the street, Azubah still clinging to her
too-impetuous protector's arm, frightened and
white, but for all that self-possessed and silent.

The card was not enough. It was evident,
said the policeman, that a serious assault had
been committed, and the gentleman must come
F 2

to the station. On this own authority the
policeman could not let the gentleman go.

Things began to look exceedingly unpleasant
for Tom, but having got himself into
the position, he bore it as well as he could,
demanded a cab, which was brought with
difficulty through the crowd, saw Azubah into
it, paid the cabman his fare beforehand, and
then finding another hansom for himself and
the policeman, submitted to be driven to the
station, leaving Mr. Moss to follow. The
district police-office being very near at hand,
he had the satisfaction of being followed by a
score or two of the onlookers.

Mr. Moss appeared with his nose bleeding,
and his charge against Tom was that he had
forced his way through the stage-door, and
had there, without provocation, grievously
assaulted him — Mr. Moss. To this Tom
answered coldly and contemptuously with a
statement of the facts, and again proffered his

card. The inspector regretted that he could
not accept that as a sufficient guarantee of the
gentleman's identity, and offered an alternative
suggestion. Mr. Carroll might either go home,
accompanied by a policeman, who would be
instructed to ascertain the accuracy or non-accuracy
of his professed address, or he might
send for a friend who would become surety
for his appearance on the morrow.

All this was more and more unpleasant to
a sensitive youngster who had gone out to
relieve distress and had met with so poor a
reward for good intentions, and Tom was
naturally indignant at it. But he made shift
to control himself and to write a brief note
to his cousin Mark, whom he described so
particularly to the officer that that functionary
had no difficulty in finding him at the place at
which Tom had left him. He glanced at the
note and rose tranquilly.

What is the matter ? ' he asked, on reaching

the street. The official told the story as he
knew it. * Nonsense,' said Mark decisively.
Mr. Carroll is one of the best tempered and
gentlest fellows in the world. He must have
received great provocation.'

Mr. Mark Carroll, of Pump Court, Temple,
barrister-at-law, having identified his cousin,
and having become surety for his appearance,
Tom was released, and went on his way
much perturbed. Mark accompanied him
home, and they talked the matter over on the
way.

You'll get a solicitor to instruct me, as a
matter of form,' said Mark, ' and I'll defend the
case. All these fellows are servants of Mr.
Moss, and they'll lie of course till they're black
in the face. Your only witnesses are the two
women. I shall have a chance of airing my
Italian with the Signora.'

He laughed at that fancy. It was certainly
an odd chance which would throw them together

in a police-court as barrister and witness.
Tom broke in on the current of his thoughts.

You don't suppose, Mark, that I am going
to drag that poor little girl's name into an
affair like this?'

Good gracious ! ' cried Mark. ' Why not ?
She is your principal witness. Moss's men will
all swear Avhat Moss wants them to swear — that's
human nature. The poor* devils have to live
one way or another, and a little perjury is all
in the day's work when it's wanted. Your
case is this. Being a person of known benevolence
' — there Mark smiled his own pleasant
smile — ' and observing on the stage of the
Megatheriimi a young lady whose parents were
once prosperous tenants on your father's estate
(a very good point that father's estate),
you arrive at the natural conclusion that her
parents are either lost or have fallen into financial
difficulties. With that warm-hearted impulsiveness
which is known to be your chief

characteristic, you go round to the back of the
stage to see if you can be of service. You
find the young lady being horribly bullied by
the manager, why and wherefore we at present
know not, and you interfere mildly for her
protection. You admit that for the lady's protection
you laid your hand upon Mr. Moss.
Mr. Moss unfortunately fell downstairs.'

No,' said Tom ; ' I threw him downstairs,
and he deserved it. If I had broken his neck
I should have had no pity for him.'

That would have been manslaughter,' said
Mark, smilingly. ' And, of coarse, you threw
him downstairs, and no doubt he deserved it.
But it is the rule to admit nothing in these cases.'

'I shall tell the truth,' said Tom hotly.
I'll have none of your confounded legal lies.'

Tell the truth and shame the devil, eh ?
Well, that's a proverb, and there's some of the
wisdom of our ancestors in it no doubt. " Tell
the truth and go to the devil " would do for a

revised edition. Leave the case to me, Tom.
My conscience is a little tougher than your own.'

You want to drag Miss Moore's name into
it ? ' asked Tom, who was not by any means
in his usual state of placid good temper.

My dear fellow,' cried Mark, ' you can't do
without it.'

But I can do without it,' cried Tom, in
great heat, ' and I ivill do without it. What
does it matter to me ? People whose opinion
I value know that I am no brawler, and the
people whose opinion I don't value can think
what they please.'

My dear fellow,' began Mark again, but
Tom stopped him.

I won't hear any more about it, Mark. I
shall go down tomorrow, and what happens
will happen. But I will have no lies told or
suggested in my behalf, and I won't have the
name of poor Moore's daughter dragged into the
affair at all.'

You seem tender about poor Moore's
daughter,' said Mark, with an open sneer. He
thought he had never heard of anything so
downright foolish as the viev/ Tom took of this
business.

I am tender about Moore's daughter,'
answered Tom, coldly. ' I hope I should be
tender about the daughter of any old friend in
such a matter.'

Well, now,' said Mark, ' if Miss Moore is
to be left out what brought you there at all ?
It's a case of wanton and purposeless intrusion
at once.'

Tom, seeing how untenable his position was
against any reasonable assault, naturally held
to it all the more doggedly.

Well, Tom,' said his cousin, 'you know
how much I like you, but I'm bound to tell you
that in this case you are acting like an ass.'

And you,' Tom answered, ' advise me to
act like a cad and a coward.'

Mark sliriio'fyed his shoulders, and was
silent. It was evident that Tom was not in a
mood to be reasoned with, and if in this case
he chose to act like a fool, one man, at least,
had done his duty and had warned him. Mark
had no inclination to be a martyr in the case,
as he would be if he offended Tom too far by
his interference. Tom was too valuable a friend
to be offended lightly, and if he would not be
helped out of this awkward scrape he must
get out of it by himself as best he could. So
the two cousins parted for the night somewhat
coolly.

On the morrow they met at the police-office,
where, by Mark's interference, one discomfort
was spared to the most prominent criminal of
the day, and Tom was allowed to take a seat
at the table in place of appearing in the
dock. Mark had done more than this beforehand.
He had met the presiding magistrate
once or twice, and had taken advantage of that

fact to call upon him early in the morning and
to relate his cousin's case.

My cousin, sir,' said Mark, ' is the most
Quixotic fool alive. There is a most perfect
defence to the case, and he will not use it. He
has no earthly reason to consider the girl,
except that she is the daughter of an old
tenant of his father's.'

I must go by the evidence, Mr. Carroll,'
said the magistrate. ' I can't allow myself to
be affected by an ex parte statement.'

God forbid ! ' cried Mark, piously. ' My
only object in calling upon you was to explain
the case for my cousin's benefit with you
personally, and not in your capacity as magistrate.
You are an old acquaintance of his
father's, and if any questions are asked and you
are able to say on my authority that a complete
defence existed, but was not brought forward
from motives of exaggerated delicacy '

I can refer the inquirers to Mr. Mark

Carroll,' said the magistrate, and there the
conversation ended.

It came to pass, in consequence of Mark's
manoeuvre, that the magistrate handled Tom
gently, and the result was that the misdemeanour
was fined iQw pounds, Which was
paid at once, and as a matter of course. And
if the affair could have ended there it would
have passed off* lightly enough. But everybody
knows what a hungry interest attaches
to matters theatrical in the public mind, and
the Megatherium, though not exactly a theatre,
was next door to it. The one reporter who
sat in this particular court, and was paid twopence
a line by the daily papers, not for what
he wrote, but for what they published, hailed the
case as a God-send, and took a keen verbatim
note, manifold it in long-hand, and sent it to
every journal in the metropolis. The bills of
the evening papers made a special line of the
case, and the morning papers headed it,

Unprovoked Assault.' The Mirror had an
indignant article on the shameless indulgence
displayed by the magistrate towards the ruffianly
defendant, who, without being able to plead even
the ordinary excuse of drunkenness, had forced
his way into a scene of peaceful business, and
without rhyme or reason assaulted the manager
of the Megatherium in the execution of his duty.

The Mirror being a Tory journal of the
highest and driest sort, was naturally on
Mr. Carroll's breakfast-table every morning.
In its columns Mr. Carroll read the dreadful
story, and whilst he sat in a condition of horrified
amazement, Lording, who was an earlier
riser and had seen the news at breakfast an
hour before, came bursting in impetuously.

This is all some horrible mistake,' he said,
seeing at a glance that Mr. Carroll had read
the news. ' Some scoundrel has taken a respectable
name. I want you to wire to Tom
and demand the truth about the matter.'

I shall go up to town immediately,' said
Mr. Carroll, ruffling with injured majesty. It
would have been bad enough for any father to
read such a record of a son, but he suffered
in proportion to his pride, and that being
abnormal, so were his pains.

I will come with you,' answered Lording.
Mary knows nothing about the matter, and I
have burned the daily papers. If you'll let me
write a note here and send one of your men over
with it, he can take my horse and leave him.'

Certainly,' said Mr. Carroll. He bore the
misery of the news firmly and like a man.

Lording wrote a-brief note to his daughter,
saying that important business called him upto
London, and asking that a portmanteau
might he sent on to him. He added that
Mr. Carroll accompanied him, and that put it
into the girl's head at once that something had
happened to Tom. She sent a note by the
groom who drove back her father's messenger.

demanding to know if anything were the
matter. Lording, thinking the deceit justifiable,
scrawled a hasty line to say that there was
nothing on earth to be alarmed at ; and he had,
indeed, quite persuaded himself that somebody
had been impersonating Tom Carroll. There •
was nothing; easier than to offer a card that
belonged to somebody else in an affair of that
sort, and Tom had always been so much a
gentleman that it was impossible to think of him
as being thus suddenly transformed into a rowdy.

The two elders had no heart for talk as
they travelled to London, and a more and
more unpleasant dread lest the thing should
prove true after all began to settle down on
both of them.

I'll tell you what, Carroll,' said Lording,
at Eustcn, ' I won't interfere with sour talk with
the lad. It will be better for you and him to
have it out together. I'll go and see Mark.
The two are always together, and he's bound

to know soraetliiiig about it. If he doesn't I
shall follow you to Tom's place, for I can't
stand the suspense and I must know the truth.'

As you will,' said Mr. Carroll frozen, and
they parted on their separate ways.

Lording found Mark at home.

What's all this in the papers about Tom ? '
he cried. ' Do you know anything about it ?
Is it true ? '

Well,' Mark answered, ' it is and it isn't.'

Hang it all, man ! ' cried Lording, ' don't
offer me riddles. What is it ? Tel me what
you know'

Well,' said Mark, ' there's a lady in the
case, and Tom has some high-flown notions
about its being dishonourable to put her in
the witness-box to clear him.'

A lady in the case ? ' said Lording, blankly.
Confound him ! And confound you, too !
Can't you tell a plain tale, and be hanged to
you?'

VOL. I. X

Thus adjured, Mark told the story as he
knew it, and Lording breathed freely.

It's abominably unpleasant, and all that, of
course,' said the good old boy. ' But we who
know the lad can trust him, eh, Mark ? He's in
the right, is Tom, quite in the right. And what
on earth can be the matter with poor Moore tolet
his girl get into a place like that? My
daughter's quite savage at the girl not writing
to her. She's sent three letters and not had a
line in answer. I say Mark, there must have
been a good deal of hard swearing against
Tom. Eh?'

About half a dozen of the witnesses went
for flat perjury, according to Tom's story,'
answered Mark. ' I told him what an ass he
was not to have a defence. I could have made
those fellows contradict each other a thousand
times over. But Tom's a Quixote.'

'I like him the better for it,' said Lording.
As honest-hearted and truthful a lad as

breathes. A fine, high-minded, honourable
lad, by gad, sir ! And all the same, its abominably
unpleasant to have these things said of one
and not to be able to deny them.'

Nothing that happened to other people
affected Mark greatly, as a rule, but for once
a circumstance outside his own interests almost
cost him his temper.

I'm glad for Tom's sake that you approve
of him,' he said. ' Personally — if my opinion's
of any value — I think him the most unmitigated
ass in Europe. Look at the pain he
gives you,' cried Mark, not because he cared
for that, but to make good his argument.
Look at the pain he gives his father I And
all for a girl for whom he has no business to
care a farthing.'

I suppose,' said Lording, ' he cares no
more for her than he has a right to care for
her.'

That's his concern,' said Mark, ill-temp
2

pertly. ' You had better ask him.' Lording
was not a thin-skinned man, and Mark knew
when brusquerie of manner was harmless to
himself, and when it was likely to be harmful.
To the people from whom he expected nothing,
he could afford to be impolite if it suited him.
He was a little sore about this matter of
Tom's also, because he had calculated on being
employed for the defence, and might very
easily have borrowed a fifty on the strength
of it, for of course he could not dream of
accepting a fee from this cousin for such a
service.

Lording looked serious for a moment, but
whatever fancy assailed him, he dismissed it.

Your uncle is in town,' he said, ' and has
gone to see Tom. Perhaps we had better
walk up and help to smooth things.'

Mark acceded, and the two drove to Montague
Gardens together. There they found
father and son at decided loggerheads, the

elder in a cold rage, and the younger in a
hot one.

I have never given you the right to doubt
my word,' Tom was saying loudly as they
entered, ' I never told you a lie in my life,
and I claim you' credence for my version of
the story as a right.'

And I demand that if your tale be true,
sir,' his father answered him, 'you prosecute
those low fellows for perjury, and clear your
name of the stain which rests upon it.' The
old man was naturally indignant. There is
pretty generally some right on both sides ina
real quarrel between people who have cared
for each other. ' It is an insult personal to
myself,' said Mr. Carroll, swelling himself
anew now that he had an audience, ' that such
an imputation should rest upon my son.'
Tom was very near yielding. After all, was
Miss Moore's privacy in a matter like this to
be set against his father's peace of mind? He

had not thought about this side of the question
until now, and it moved him a good deal.
But Mr. Carroll could not let well alone, and
unfortunately he went on, 'Whom am I to
believe, the six or seven sworn witnesses in
the case who appeared, sir, in the light of day,
or the person who was incriminated by their
evidence, and who declines to take steps for
the clearance of his character ? Declines,' said
Mr. Carroll, with a white face turned towards his
only son, ' on a pretence so flimsy and absurd
that I can but look upon it as a subterfuge.'

Van I to understand,' asked Tom, with a
rather wicked-sounding repression in his voice,
that you refuse to accept my word upon this
matter ? '

Unless you substantiate it, certainly,'
said Mr. Carroll, loftily. ' The story as you
relate it is sufficiently dishonouring to me,
but until you establish it I must prefer to
believe the other and the worse.'

'That is very unfortunate for both of us,'
said Tom, quietly. After that wild horses
would not have drawn him to an exculpation
of himself.

Tom,' cried Lording, ' you mustn't leave
your father in this way. Carroll, be reasonable.'


The youngster had gathered up hat and
stick and gloves, and was making for the door.

'My dear uncle,' cried Mark, ' forgive me if
I suggest that you are both a little heated at
this moment. I am sure Tom's story is the
true one.'

If Tom and his father quarrelled, half
Mark's income stood in peril.

'What do you know about the matter,
Mark ? ' inquired Mr. Carroll.

I have Tom's word,' said Mark. His uncle
turned away with a mere wave of the hand,
and as he turned he faced Tom, who felt his
father's gesture almost unbearably insulting.

My father cannot accept my word,' he
said, controlling himself to outer quiet. ' That
is very unhappy for us both, but my fault by
no means.'

You shan't go,' cried Lording with an oath,
stepping in between Tom and the door.

/ will go,' said Mr. Carroll, taking up his
hat. ' Nephew Mark — may I ask that you will
give me your arm P Shall I see you before you
leave town, Lording ? Good-day, sir,' turning
to his son, ' and good-bye.'

You shan't go either,' cried Lording again,
setting his back against the door.

Sir ! ' said Mr. Carroll, with pompous
passion, ' stand aside. I can manage my family
affairs without extraneous assistance. I disown
that fellow. He is no son of mine any longer.
I repudiate all claims he may make upon me.'

Go your way,' said Lording, puffing and
blowing with rage at the other's tone towards
him, ' you pompous idiot, go your way. But

mark my words, you'll be sorry for this to the
day of your death.'

Mr. Carroll, with his white face suddenly
grown scarlet, stood waiting for Mark's arm.
Mark, with an apologetic glance at Tom and
Lording, offered it, and the two marched out
of the room and down the stairs together.
The two who were left behind stood agaze at
each other, listening to the creak of Carroll's
footsteps on the stairs, to the jar of bolt and
chain as the door opened, and the crash with
which it closed behind him.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

I.OXI.OX : I'EI>TED BT

SPCTTISIIVOODE A>D CO., NEW-6TUKET BQUABB

AHD PAaLIAMEJfT STIiEBT

rmy^^^isii^mM

/ft-J

^k»

ism

»a

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

30112 052944458

■i^Si:,:-

:"g:]

,5"^*'

mSf %J 'H-f^f^!

i

m

OF THE

UN Diversity

Of ILLINOIS



M964H



J *

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/heartsnovel02murr

II.

Each in Three Volumes.

HEART AND SCIENCE.' By Wilkie Collins.
THE CAPTAINS' ROOM. By Walter Besant.
DUST. By Julian Hawthorne.
THE GOLDEN SHAFT. By Charles Gibbon.
OF HIGH DEGREE. By Charles Gibbon.
GIDEON FLEYCE. By Henry W. Lucy.
REGIMENTAL LEGENDS. By J. S. Winter.
WOMEN ARE STRANGE. By F. W. Robinson.
THE HANDS OF JUSTICE. By F. W. Robinson.
Self-condemned. By Mrs. Alfred Hunt.

PORT SALVATION; or, The Evangelist. By
Alphonse Daudet. Translated by C. H. Melted. 2 vols,
post 8vo.

CHATTO S: WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

A NOVEL

BY

DAVID Christie MURRAY

author of
'Joseph's coat' a life's atonement' etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



sall rights reserved]

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

HEAR T S.

CHAPTEE xrir.

0:sCE iu the street, Mr. Carroll began to compose
himself, and in a few minutes withdrew
his arm from Mark's, and walked along without
assistance. Mark looked at him now and then,
when he thought his glance likely to be observed,
with an air of respectful commiseration.

I am not familiar with this part of London,'
said Mr. Carroll, in a little while, ' and I wish
to rest for a time before I return.'

You would like to drive to an hotel, sir .? '
asked Mark. ' Shall I call a hansom ? '

Mr. Carroll signifying assent, Mark called

VOL. II. B

a hansom, and they were driven together to a
highly respectable bni; old-fashioned hotel, where
the elder commanded a private room. His
nephew accompanied him, preserving a respectful
silence. Mark's clever brains were swimming
with ideas. How was all this going to
turn out ? Barring himself and Tom, the head
of the family had scarcely kith or kin, and if
the breach between father and son were to be
lasting, it was almost certain to prove a magnificent
thing for him.

He's as pig-headed and obstinate as he
knows how to be,' thought Mark, as he stood
near the object of his reflections with a deferential
air, ' but I think I know how to manage
him.'

You have not yet taken luncheon, Mark ? '
asked Mr. Carroll. It was his study always to
be as little disturbed as possible, and though
the interview with his son had greatly shukon
him, he was not going to show more than he

could help. His only child had disgraced himself
beyond recovery, and he had cast him off
and was prepared to play the Spartan over him.

Mark, on the other hand, was disposed to
think that a little mental disturbance would
seem becoming in himself under the circumstances.
If it were only from sympathy with
his uncle, his appetite surely ought to be a little
feeble.

I don't care for luncheon, sir,' said Mark.

Pray order for two,' returned Mr. Carroll,
and Mark obeyed him. ' A little soup and a
bird, or something of that kind, Mark,' said
the elder, as the waiter entered the room, ' I
leave it to you. Show me to a bedroom,
waiter, in the first instance, and call me when
luncheon is ready.'

The waiter obeyed, and returned to Mark
to receive instructions. The young man having
despatched him, walked up and down the room,
and pausing before the mirror, smiled at his

B 2

own reflection there. As yet nothing had
happened which might not be smoothed over,
but yet he thought it extremely unlikely that
it should be.

There is no such pig-headed fool in Europe
as my uncle,' said Mark, pleasantly, to himself.
He's an absolute revelation of the possibilities
of human egotism. The common curse of
mankind is his in great revenue. I don't think
he ever had a worshipper at the Trench House
shrine so far, and I fancy, I fancy that he'd
like one. Infidels bow the knee at times,' he
went on with a chuckle, ' and I can seem to
worship. Tom never had the knack of it, and
yet he believed in the elder donkey.'

This clever young man saw rose-coloured
prospects in the near distance. To do him
justice he would have tried to oust Tom years
ai^o if it had occurred to him that there had
been any reasonable chance of success and no
reasonable chance of detection. He was a

young man in whom one sentiment ruled, and
one only — a keen desire that Mark Carroll
should be in all realisable ways prosperous and
happy. Had he moved in savage circles of the
lower order he would have found his life-philosophy
pretty universally accepted, and asa
necessity would have had to fight for it.
As it was he was perfectly aware that there
were people who affected to believe that such
a philosophy was shameful. He knew well
enough that these people had disciples so foolish
as really to believe in a creed of unselfishness.
He had eyes and ears ; he read books and
walked about in the world ; he was cleverer
than nineteen men out of any twenty he encountered,
and he knew it; and he believed
with his whole soul that Folly's most prodigious
birth might be found in the Sermon on the
Mount. In deference to King Humbug, the
world's one genuine potentate, he kept these
sentiments to himself. Other people pretend

to think them shameful, and Mark was ready
to pretend in all cases where pretence was
useful.

When luncheon was ready and Mr. Carroll
came down to it, Mark took care that his appetite,
usually in good working order, should be
deranged by the emotions of the morning, and
he ate but little. It would be easy to make up
for abstinence later on, and he looked at his
imcle with reverential sympathy. The elder
was not in a mood to eat much, and the
luncheon was but ill-used between them.

Nephew Mark,' said Mr. Carroll, when the
almost untasted meal had been cleared away,
I have something of importance to say to you.
I do not speak in heat of temper, but after full
and complete deliberation. You know what
disappointment I have suffered at your cousin's
hands, and you have seen that I could vindicate
the position in which it has pleased Providence
to place me. It is necessary for once to allude

to til at topic. I beg that it may never again
be spoken of in my presence.' Mark bowed in
reverent, sympathetic silence. ' At my decease
the estate and the position it carries with it
naturally descend to you.' He was looking at
Mark as he said this, and the young man was looking
at him. It was Mark's triumph when that
difficult interview was ended that not even his
eyes had shown at this juncture a sign of joy.
I do not claim,' Mr. Carroll went on, ' that
your conduct should be regulated by any
standard of mine, but I have it in my power
to do again what I have done to-day. I am
the custodian of the family honour, and I will
be faithful to my trust. That is all I need say.
I demand nothing more of you than the
preservation of that honour — unbroken and
unsoiled.'

Now, much as Mark had expected from
the quarrel between Tom and his father, he had
not counted on having it placed in his hands

SO soon, and his uncle's speech was something
of a shock to him. But, in deference to the
laws promulgated by King Humbug, he felt
that some sort of unavailing protest in his
cousin's interest was necessary and befitting.

You ask me, sir,' he began therefore, ' to
act in all things as becomes a gentleman ? ' Mr.
Carroll inclined his head.

That is all I ask of you,' he answered.
You offer me a position and a fortune to
which I could never have dared to aspire.'
Mr. Carroll inclined his head again. ' If I risk
the loss of your favour at the first moment of
its bestowal, you may be sure that the motives
which animate me are strong indeed. If I ask

you to reconsider your determination '

You ask an impossibility,' returned his
uncle. ' Let me hear no more of this. Your
interference in this matter will result in consequences
unpleasant to us both. I am not blind
to the creditable nature of your motives,

Mark ; but I cannot tolerate interference in this
matter.'

Mark bowed in silence and looked as disappointed
as he could. He had done what the
Absurdities demanded of him, and had pretended
to be ready to sacrifice his own interests
for another man's benefit. As if anybody
had ever really wanted to do that ! The two
egotists sat in silence for a time, each filled
with himself. The elder was naturally a good
deal incensed at Tom, and it was evident that
Tom was altogether in the wrong, and that
his father was blameless in the whole affair.
Mr. Carroll had always been blameless. That
was one of his characteristics. In his most
dispassionate survey of his own career he
could not find a single peg on which to hang
one thought of self-reproach. He had never
been at fault in judgment, never at fault in
conduct. It seemed outside the pale of possibility
that he could be so. As a consequence

of this self-approval came sweet peace. It
seemed a sort of added credit to him to have
been tried in this way, and to have come out
of the ordeal so magnificently. Sparta nor
Some had ever held a father who could have
behaved better in the circumstances, and have
cut off his own flesh with a more tranquil calm.
The world would know it — his world — and
would approve his action, as it had always
done and been compelled to do by the very
nature of things.

When you can feel yourself at liberty,
Mark,' said Mr. Carroll, after this pause, ' I
shall be glad to see you at Trench House. I
do not purpose to myself to appropriate your
time and attention, but it will be fitting that,
you should be seen there occasionally, and that
by a gradual adoption of county duties you
should prepare yourself for your future position.'

The old ass talks as if I Avere going to
be an emperor,' said Mark to himself. A man

with a sense of humour was likely enough to
find in Mr. Carroll a continual feast.

I cannot attempt to disguise from you,
sk,' said Mark, respectfully, ' that my professional
occupations are of the most shadowy
nature. I go the ordinary rounds, but I have
nothing to do, and never have had. I find it
too hard to stoop, as many of my competitors
in the race do daily, to fish for intimacy with
solicitors.'

Mr. Carroll approved of this sentiment
highly, as Mark knew he would.

You will find your legal training of great
value on the Bench,' he answered ; ' otherwise
you may count yourself independent of it.
There is nothing ungentlemanly or unbecoming
to your future place in society in the position
of a barrister, but I should wish you to be
independent of your profession, and shall make
you such an allowance as will be worthy of my
own wealth and status.'

What with his sense of humour, and his
triumph at the turn his affairs had taken, Mark
could have laughed aloud, but he repressed
himself. He only thanked his uncle with
becoming gravity and humility.

It shall be my study, sir,' he said, ' to be
worthy of the confidence you repose in me.'
The elder accepted this promise and the thanks
which preceded it by an inclination of the
head.

'I had not known,' he said by-and-by,
but that I might spend a night in town, and
my portmanteau lies at the cloak-room at the
Euston Station. I shall be obliged if you will
accompany me and see it into the van, properly
labelled.'

With pleasure,' answered Mark. ' So I
am to be a sort of upper flunkey or body-servant,
am I ? ' he said to himself. ' Well, the
wages are worth it, and I can't expect to get
everything for nothing.'

When the time came he accompanied the
head of the house to the railway-station, and
saw him comfortably disposed. Mark's manner
had never been so suave and amiable and
respectful. Mr. Carroll did not actually think
about it, but he felt that he was being treated
in a proper way, and that this nephew was a
young man of sense and feeling.

I shall be glad to see you at Trench House
in a week's time, Mark,' said the elder, when
they were about to part. ' Can you make it
convenient to be there this day week ? '

Certainly, sir,' answered Mark.

Make arrangements to stay for a week, if
that be possible,' said Mr. Carroll.

The train started, and Mark paced along
the platform and into the street, smiling, with
his eyes upon the ground. What a stroke of
fortune !

How little we can guess what is goings to
happen ! ' thought he exultingly. ' Why should

not Providence take care of me as well as of
other men ? I never looked for it. I thought
I was going to be a poor devil all my life, and
the truth is the better by comparison. There's
little danger of that dour old numskull turning
round in favour of Tom. There is nothing so
obstinate, so unreasonable, and so fixed in its
own belief in its own wisdom as a fool; possibly
because there is a lurking notion underneath
that he really is a fool, or would confess that
he once had been if he changed his mind. Oh
my prophetic soul, mine uncle ! how happy we
shall be together ! How I shall tickle your
foibles and how you will tickle mine, to be
sure ! Yours being to be flattered as a monument
of wisdom, and mine to walk in Poole's
attire and silver hae to spare.'

He walked home to his chambers in high
spirits, nd surrendered himself to his day-dreams.
Day-dreams were not much in Mark's
line as a rule, but for once he felt that he had

a right to them. He had scarcely sat there for
half-an-hour when he heard a step upon the
stair, and by-and-by a knock at the door. By
force of habit he reconnoitred in his usual way,
but even as he did so he thought with a splendid
flush of triumph that all need for that sort
of discomfort would soon be over. His visitor
was no other than Lording, and Mark admitted
him with a sort of grieved alacrity.

^ This is a miserable business, Mark,' said
the old boy, ' a miserable business.'

It is indeed,' said Mark. With Lording,
Mark's concern had a sort of petulance and impatience
in it, and his manner was most artistically
differentiated from that he had worn in
Mr. Carroll's presence. ' Tom's a splendid fellow,
one of the finest fellows in the world, and
my uncle is the best man I ever knew, but
they're father and son, and they've one characteristic
in common. There's no shaking either
of them. I've been talking to my uncle, but

he won't listen. Now, I'll be absolutely candid
with you, Lording, because I know I can trust
you. You were a friend of my father's, and
you're a friend of my uncle's, and a friend of
Tom's. My uncle has told me this afternoon
that he means absolutely to disinherit Tom and
to set me in his place. I'm as poor as a rat —
my profession never brought me a farthing — and
I'm naturally as willing as most men to be
well-to-do, but I can't tolerate a proceeding so
unnatural. For heaven's sake, don't tell my
uncle that I told you this. I know he offended
you shamefully this morning, but you'll forget
that for Tom's sake, won't you ? '

Certainly, certainly,' said Lording. ' You're
a good lad, Mark. There is no reason why
your uncle shouldn't do something handsome
for you. The estate '11 stand it ; but it's absurd
to talk of disinheriting Tom. The lad has
done nothing to deserve it, and it's really too
absurd

Of course it is,' said Mark, with petulant
heartiness. ' But if the breach isn't healed
somehow my uncle will do it. Tom acted very
stupidly this morning.'

The old man was more at fault than he
was,' cried Lording, who was a staunch partisan.
' Toi was Quixotic and no worse, and
by gad ! ' the old boy broke out, ' that's a fault
on the right side in a lad's character. I shall
give your uncle a piece of my mind, Mark. I
don't care a hang about what he said to me
this morning. Old friendships between reasonable
people are not broken in a minute. Ita
poor, bladder sort of liking that can be
pricked into nothing by a hasty word, eh,
Mark ? '

If my uncle once makes this arrangement
in my favour,' said Mark, ** he'll be immovable.
Anything that is to be done must be
done at once.'

Certainly, certainly,' said Lording again.

VOL. II. c

You are acting very handsomely, Mark, and
your conduct ought to be worth a thousand or
two to you when Tom comes to his owen.
Though I know very well that that doesn't
weigh with you. But money's a useful thing,
Mark, a very useful thing.'

So people tell me,' said Mark, with a
laugh.

Any immediate pressure, Mark ? ' asked
Lording. ' A hundred any good to you for a
month or two, or a year or two, eh ? ' Mark
laughed again and threw up the palms of his
hands.

I mustn't borrow,' he answered genially.
A man who has no prospect of paying may
just as well steal as borrow.'

You may be Lord Chancellor one of these
days,' said Lording. 'And between friends,
Mark — between friends.'

Mark allowed the old boy to pull out his
cheque-book.

You are forewarned, Mr. Lording,' he said,
with another laugh. ' If you insist on lending
you can't expect a man so poor as I am to say
*' Xo " to you.'

There you are, Mark,' said Lording, in
quite a comfortable glow of friendship. ' I
shall get down by the next train, and see your
uncle in the morning, and we'll get through
this confounded business somehow. And look
here, Mark — you've acted well in this affair.
Honour is honour, and all that, I know, but
human nature's human nature too, and it isn't
every man who would do his best to throw over
such a fortune.'

Don't tell my uncle you know anything
from me,' said Mark. ' I can't afford to anger
him. And don't lose any time.'

"- No, no,' said Lording. ' I'll keep dark
about you, Mark, and I'll be at him in the
ling.'

There's another blunder-headed old idiot,
c 2

said Mark to himself, as he watched Lording's
figure down the stairs. ' Go at him in the
morning by all means, whilst his wrath is nice
and hot. The proud fool hasn't forgotten the
peppery fool's speech of this morning. Lord,
it's a world of fools, and I am the only sensible
man seen this last fortnight. Come along,' said
Mark, apostrophized the cheque and waving it
gaily in the air. ' I shall have time to cash
you before the bank closes, but not a minute
more.'

The young man was as usual in low water,
and had scarce seen his way to the visit to
Trench House without this unexpected generous
loan. A much prouder man than Mark
might have accepted the loan from Lording
without offence to his own pride. He was nota
happy young fellow as a rule, but with a
hundred pounds in his pocket, and a fortune in
the near distance, he knew how to be lighthearted
for an evening. He sat down that

evening to an admirable dinner, and drank a
bottle of rare old Burgundy. Then be dropped
in nt one of the theatres, and being blessed
Avitli a good digestion, was ready for an
oyster supper after the performance, and that
being over he went comfortably home and
slept.

Lording, full of the most benevolent intentions,
called at Trench House next morning,
and bustled heartily into Mr. Carroll's library,
with his right hand outstretched in greeting.
Mr. Carroll took it frigidly enough and waved
his visitor to a seat.

To what am I indebted for the honour of
your visit, Mr. Lording ? ' he asked, icily.

Come, come, Carroll,' said the other, ' don't
let a hasty word sever a thirty years' friendship
between neighbours. I spoke hastily yesterday,
and if T spoke offensively I'm very sorry for it.'

Pj;!y let no more be said,' answered the
other.

That's right,' said Lording. ' And now,
look here, Carroll, what about this affair of
Tom's ? ' Mr. Carroll raised his eyebrows, and
looked a frozen inquiry at his guest. ' What
can an old friend do to mediate between you ? '

You were present at our interview yesterday,'
said Mr. Carroll, loftily, ' and you were
a witness to the manner of our parting. Xo
mediation is necessary between us. We have
done with each other.'

Good heavens, Carroll, you can't mean
it ! ' cried Lording. ' It's barbarous — barbarous
absolutely barbarous. What in the name
of wonder has the lad done ? I had the story
from his cousin Mark, and there was nothing
unbecoming to a gentleman in it from first to
last — a bit Quixotic perhaps, a little ridiculously
tender about the girl's reputation, but hang it
all, Carroll ! '

Mr. Carroll's Arctic solemnity froze the
good old fellow into silence.

If there is any other topic in the world,'
said this Woman father, ' upon which you choose
to speak to me, I shall be glad to listen to you.'
Curious, he thought, how meddlesome people
were.

You mean to throw Tom over ? ' asked
Lording, in anger and amazement.

Mr. Lording,' answered the Woman father,
I do not care to talk upon this theme.'

'But I do,' shouted Lording, in his big,
hearty voice. 'And, what's more, I have a
right to talk about it. The lad's engaged to
be married to my daughter, and I'm not going
to have any undeserved stigma cast on him if
I can help it. Don't stare at me as if I were
a seven-legged horse or a spotted lady. Damn
your airs, sir ! I stand on my rights.'

Sir,' said Mr. Carroll, more frozen than
ever, if that were possible, ' I can foresee no
beneficial result from this interview. You are
already fully informed with respect to my intentions,

and I midst beg you to regard them as
beings fixed and final.'

You mean to throw Tom over ? ' asked
Lording again.

I have already expressed my meaning fully
and completely,' returned the other.

Lording broke out with a curse.

You heartless blackguard ! I'll post you !
Mark my words, I'll post you from one end of
the county to the other. And, by gad, sir !
if you throw the lad over, I'll take him in hand.
I've got enough for the pair of 'em, and they
shall marry as soon as they like, and live down
here and be an eyesore to you.'

Mr. Carroll rang the bell with no change
in the iciness of his demeanour. Lording, in
his rage, turned upon the man who answered
the summons.

I'll begin here,' he cried, with an apoplectic
face. He seized the man by the shoulders.
Do you see that fellow there .^ He's the

greatest scoundrel unhung. Do you guess
what he's done ? Sent off his only son into the
world because he behaved like a gentleman.
I'll stop the very labourers in the fields and tell
'em of it.'

The door ! ' thundered the master of the
house, all his icy contempt giving way to sudden
anger.

I'll go when I like and how I like,' cried
Lording, shaking his riding-whip in Carroll's
face. He had never been a great stickler for
dignity, and by this time he had very little left.

The door ! ' cried Mr. Carroll again, tugging
madly at the bell-pull until it suddenly
came down in his hands. Three or four servants,
male and female, ran in alarm to answer
this remarkable summons, and stood huddled
at the door of the room.

You barbarous scoundrel ! ' shouted Lording,
who could scarcely speak for rage. ' I'll
post you everywhere, and I'll fight the lad's

cause against you while I've a breath in my
body. There's a villain for you ! ' he stammered
at the amazed and frightened servants.
Turns his only son out of house and home
for nothing ! '

Remove this madman ! ' said Mr. Carroll,
with some return to calmness. ' Do you hear ? *

At this the enraged old man made at him
with his riding-whip, but the butler, who was
a lusty fellow with no want of courage, stepped
between.

Can't stand by and see that, sir,' he said
quietly. Then the others took courage and
flocked into the room. The butler led the
contingent, with remonstrances and prayers to
Lording, and, advancing slowly, backed him
out of the house, he still raging and threatening
and cursing. He was mounted and more
than half way home before he recovered himself.
All on a sudden he groaned and pulled
up his horse smartly.

Well,' he cried disconsolately, ' I'm a
pretty sort of old fool to undertake to mediate
for a poor lad. The fat's in the fire now
beyond a doubt.'

It did not indeed seem likely that his interview
with Tom's father had greatly advanced
Tom's cause. The story reached Mark's ears
through the butler, who was not indisposed to
be on friendly terms with the new heir, though
he regretted the fate of the old one. The new
heir listened to it all with a serious and even
au aggrieved expression.

Poor old fellow ! ' he said. ' He loved
Tom dearly. He meant well, Johnson, but it
was not the right way to take.'

He went away sorrowful to look at, but
when he reached the solitude of his own room
he laughed until his sides ached and the tears
were 1:1 his eyes.

A world of fools ! ' said Mark. ' A world
of fools ! '

CHAPTEE Xii.

It was plain to Mary Lording that her father
was disturbed ; but he would confess nothing
as yet, in spite of all her coaxing. Something
within herself held her back from the plain
question she wished to ask, and she avoided
the mention of Tom's name. Baretti was faraway,
and she never heard of him except
through her affianced lover's letters. What
with novels and plays, one gets a little tired
of this eternal theme of love, and the powers
of the passion are so much insisted on that one
grows into a sort of tacit unbelief in them. Yet
the stories of its prowess are true after all, and
it makes a full half of the real joys of the world
and a full half of the world's real sorrow. It

was not agreeable to the girl to confess to
herself that the scattered mentions of Baretti
in Tom Carroll's letters made them welcome to
her, and that lie read and re-read the letters
for the sake of them. She meant to be honest
all along, and she did battle with her own
interest in the painter, and despised and hated
herself twenty times a day because the interest
mastered her. But she was going to marry
Tom Carroll, and to be a true and loyal wife
to him. To a purely-bred girl, loyalty meant
loyalty in thought simply, because active disloyalty,
if her own mind had hinted at it — as
it never could, untempted — would have looked
most monstrously impossible.

She was not so happy as she once had been,
but she looked for happiness after her marriage,
and was disposed to dive into matrimony headlong,
because it seemed as if it were the only
state in which she coidd forget her unfortunate
interest in Baretti.

I have had a stupid quarrel with a stupid
friend of mine, my dear,' said her father at
last, in answer to her coaxing ; ' and I am
stupid enough to be annoyed by it. That's
all, my darling. Eun away and leave a disagreeable
old man to himself.' She kissed him
obediently and went away, and he noticed, not
for the first time, that she was scarcely as
sprightly as she had used to be. ' Leaving
girlhood behind her, and growing into a
woman, poor thing ! ' said the father, glancing
after her. ' All young things frisk about jolly,
and all old ones grow slow and sadden down
a bit.'

That was a very unusual sort of reflection
for Lording ; but recent circumstances had
somewhat depressed him. His daughter passed
from his thoughts after a little time, and he
concentrated himself on Tom and that unfortunate
youngster's affairs. It was clear enough
now that the elder Carroll had meant what he

had said to Tom in London, but it was on
Lording's conscience that he himself might
have been partially responsible for the father's
bitter conclusion.

If I had left him alone,' he thought at
times, * he might have repented.' But then
he would break out with new anathema against
his neighbour. ' Not he ! The bowelless scoundrel
! The pompous, stuck-up, heartless prig ! '

Lording had many misgivings about Tom's
acceptance of the offer he meant to make him.
The youngster was proud, and it was a hundred
to one that he would be too high-minded to
live as a dependent on the bounty of his father-in-law
; and yet the old fellow determined to
try him. For one thing (apart from his love
for his daughter, and his friendship for Tom,
and his resolve to make them happy if he
could), this plan was the only one he could
think of which really bade fair to carry bitterness
to the elder Carroll's soul.

It's of no use to try to do a thing like this
by letter,' he said to himself. ' I must go upto
town and see the lad.'

He despatched a telegram asking if Tom
could meet him at a certain hour on the
morrow, and, receiving an affirmative answer,
he sought his daughter and told her that
business called him back to London for a day.

Take me with you, papa,' said Mary. ' It
is dull to be left behind in this way.'
' I needn't start until tomorrow,' responded
Lording, though he itched to go at once ; ' and
you can send over for one or two of the Harold
girls. They'll keep you company.'

You are worrying about something,' she
said, ' and I want to be with you.'

My daring,' her father answered, ' you
will be more dull and unhappy in a London
hotel than you would be at home, and I can't
take you about with me. I'm not in any sort
of trouble or distress. I am only angry with

a man I used to think well of, and he has
turned out to have a bad heart, my dear. And
now I won't tell you any more about it until
it's all smoothed out again, as well as it ever
can be.'

It was almost the first time in his life that
he had denied her anything, and it was easily
to be seen that he was resolved, and was not
to be shaken. She elected to remain alone
whilst he went to London, and she stayed
behind in some anxiety. Tom was in waiting
when Lording drove up to Number Twenty
Montague Gardens.

Have you heard from your father, Tom ? '
asked Lording, after a hasty greeting.

I had a letter this morning,' said Tom,
and I am glad you are here.' The youngster
was much disturbed, and spoke with a faltering
voice, which not all his resolution could keep
steady. ' My father tells me,' he went on,
that he has given instructions for the making

VOL. II. D

of a new will, which shall set my cousin Mark
in my place. If I thought I had done anything
to deserve this '

Lording got up and shook hands with him .
Nothing in the world, lad,' he answered
heartily. ' Nothing in the world.'

I can't think T have,' said the youngster,
sadly. ' But there it is, sir ; and I know my
father well. It is no more likely that he will
change than it is that I should ask him to do
so. And, of course, that's impossible.'

Quite, quite, quite,' cried Lording. ' But
now, Tom, how about Mary ? We're not going
to have any ridiculous, nonsensical scruples at
her expense, are we ? '

I don't understand you, sir,' answered
Tom.

'Well, now, look here,' said the old boy,
taking Tom's hand anew and speaking with
bluff sincerity of voice and manner. ' Mary's
a downright stood, honest girl, though I say so.

I know her well enoiigli to be sure of one
thing, and that is, that she'd never say " Yes "
to a man she didn't care for. Now, your father
can do what he likes with his money, but he
can't do what he likes with my little girl. She's
got enough for both, Tom ; and I wouldn't
have any little fancy of hers baulked in this
way, let alone a thing like this. Now, you
will get married at once, like a sensible lad,
won't you.^ And we'll just contrive to rub
along without the Trench House estate as well
as we can ; eh, Tom ? '

You are very good, sir,' said Tom, looking
away from Lording to hide his eyes, which
were moist at the other's generosity and friendship.
« But '

'But me no buts,' cried Lording. 'Act
like a sensible, generous lad, who sets money
at its true value.'

No, sir,' said Tom, firmly and miserably.
I can't be a pauper even on your bounty.

D 2

It's very good. It's like you. But I can't
do it.'

Now, come,' said Lording, in pretended
anger. 'You're not going to throw my girl
over, are you ? '

If Mary will wait for me a little time,'
Tom answered, ' I will try to do something to
make a place in the world which will be worth
her taking. But it's unfair to ask it, and she
mi: St take back her freedom.'

I thought better of you, Tom,' said the
elder, ' than to throw your sweetheart over
like that.'

Don't make it too hard for me, sir,' Tom
besought him. It was hard to lose his love,
but it seemed as hard to say how hard it was.
His own delicacy and the very fervour of his
passion held him from proclaiming it. 'The
best thing Miss Lording can do, sir, will be to
force me. I hope she will be able to do it
easily.'

His loyal heart did strive after that bitter
hope, though vainly.

Now, do you mean to tell me,' said Lording,
drawing his most pointed arrow to the
head and letting it fly, ' do you mean to tell
me that if Mary had lost her last penny you'd
have thrown her over ? What's sauce for the
goose is sauce for the gander, Tom ! and you'll
have to come to reason. Why, man alive, if
you like to work, there's no reason why you
shouldn't become a distinguished man and have
us all proud of you ! '

Well, sir,' answered Tom, with an unsuccessful
smile, 'let me try. If I can bring
anvthincf I shall be contented.'

Very well,' cried the other, thinking he saw
his bent, ' fame's as good as money, and a great
deal better. Work, lad, work ! You've got it in
you — fetch it out. Take a year, and stick to it.
I'll lay my head to a brass farthing you make a
mark in that time. Come, that's a bargain.'

I have thought it all over, su,' said Tom,
and I know how I ought to act. To begin
with, 1 can't have any pretensions to a claim
upon Miss Lording. I can't ask her to wait
for me or to expect anything from me. I must
give her back her freedom, and it must be
complete and uncontrolled, and not in anyway
a pretence. But if, in spite of that, I
should be able in a year or two to come back
and say to you, " I am getting on a little in
the world, and am in the way to earn a little
money and to make something of a name'* I
might take my chance again with her like any
other man. I'm not heart-broken, sir, and I'm
not going to be. If she cares for me as I do
for her, she'll wait for me, and we shall be
married in the end ; because no man's scruples
could justify him in spoiling a woman's life. If
she doesn't, she will have her liberty, and will
recognise the change in my position, and will
learn to care for somebody else.'

Have you got the right to j^iit a woman
in that position, Tom ? ' asked Lording — ' To
make her claim you ? '

If I ever feel that I have done anything,
I can make my appeal to you,' Tom answered.
I've told you everything, sir. I've told you of
some poor hopes of mine which ten to one will
come to nothing, but they must influence nobody
except myself. I'm obliged to hold them,
for I don't think I could do without them.'
Throughout this interview the younger man's
voice had been kept, with evident difficulty, at
a dead level of monotony ; but there it broke
so eloquently that Lording's eyes tingled with
tears. He winked both eyes together and blew
his nose with violence.

Answer me one question, Tom,' he said, a
second or two later. ' This isn't a time for
choosing phrases and that sort of thing, and so
I'll put it plain and straight. Do you love my
daughter ? ' Now that is not an easy thing for

some sorts of men to talk about, and Tom
Carroll was peculiarly sensitive. But he answered,
though with difficulty : —

I don't think that any man ever loved a
woman more dearly.'

Very well. Do you think One more

question — Do you think that she loves you ? '
That was a matter still harder to talk about ;
but he answered again : —

I believe so.'

Then I'll have no melodramatic nonsense
imported into my domestic affairs,' cried Lording
; ' and the match will go on just the same
as ever.'

Does Miss Lording know the news ? ' Tom
asked. He had not dared to put the question
until now.

'No,' said the old boy. 'I kept it from
her until the tangle should be straightened.*
If Lording had come as her emissary, there
would have been a temptation in it, though

even then Tom was resolved that there was
iiothiog for it but to give her back her freedom
whilst he dared the world.

Let me write to her,' he said. ' It is the
only way. I will give her back her freedom
'

And if she refuses it ? ' asked Lording.

I will beg her to wait a year. Oh ! ' he
cried out suddenly, ' don't you see how hard
it is for me to do my duty ? '

Tom,' said the senior, ' you're a good deal
of a Quixote and a bit of an ass, and altogether
a right-down good fellow. I shall stick to you,
and my little girl will stick to you, and this
affair will stir you up and make you work, and
we shall all be happy and comfortable together.
And when Lra gone you'll be well
enough off for any reasonable creature. But
confound the money ! I did think you lead a
soul above that sort of thing, and I'm a bit
disappointed in you. Why, in the name of all

that's reasonable, couldn't you get married and
go on working? There, there. Never mind.
You're a fine-natured, honourable lad, Tom — a
bit of an ass, but a fine lad, and I'm as pleased
with you as if you were a prince and had a
million. I'm not a fool,' cried the old boy,
except in places, and I don't pretend to think
meanly about money ; but I think more of my
little girl than I do of all the money in the
world. You're the man she chose, and I suppose
she wants you, or she wouldn't have said
Yes " to you ; and by gad, sir, what my
little girl wants she has as a general thing, and
that you'll find out when you're married.'

But it was hard work to swim against the
tide. Tom was not to be moved j must then by
any sally of mirth, real or pretended, and
Lording's jolly for once had hardly the look
of the real thing, oi the tone of it.

I must write to her,' said Tom. ' You
will take my letter ? ' There was a comfortless

feel about the thought of its delivery by the
post.

Certainly,' said Lording. 'But before
you Avrite it, think of what you owe to Mary
as well as of what you owe to yourself Don't
let any overgrown sense of honour make you
cruel or selfish, Tom.'

That was rather an out-of-the-way bit of
analysis for Lording, but he was not the first
man in whom heart has stood in stead of brains.
Tom wrote his letter, and the'^old^fellow went
away the while and spent a weary hour or two
in wandering about the streets. His mission
had failed in its main [purpose, though it had
not been totally unproductive of result. The
youngster, as he wrote, was not hopeless. He
was himself of so loyal and^[honest a nature
that it came natural to believe that after all
that had happened Mary would hold to him
and be true. He had never been worthy of
her, and never could be ; but he would do

something in a year — the opera was near its
completion — to achieve fame and to look less
unworthy than he had always seemed. His
letter was not a long one, but it took a longtime
to YNTite, and when Lording came back
again it was but just finished. Haifa quire of
blotted and crumpled sheets lay in the wastepaper
basket at his side, and the lover emptied
them into the fire almost as his sweetheart's
father entered.

And now, Tom,' said Lording, when he
had taken the letter and put it away in his
pocket-book, ' how about immediate resources ?
What are you going to do ? You must let me
help you there.'

I don't need it,' said Tom. ' The money
my mother left me brings in nearly two hundred
and fifty a year. I can live on that, and
I will, until I can manage to do something to
increase it.'

Very well,' said Lording. ' It's little

enough, but you can do with it, no doubt.
And what are your plans ? '

Well,' said Tom, blushing fierily, ' there's
an opera nearly finished, and I do really believe
there's something in it, and that it can be
placed. Hoffmannn has looked at it, and thinks
very well of it.'

He got out the score and began to turn it
over on the table, and Lording looked at it
reverentially. Whatever pertained to creative
art was wonderful to Lording, and Tom, encouraged
by his simple admiration, went to
the piano and played the opening chorus.
When Tom Carroll played anything that moved
him, his face would grow pale and its expression
on a sudden curiously mobile and
changeful, his breathing vroidd become a little
hard, and there were a score of other signs of
artistic emotion under artistic control about
him. It was rather the observation of these
sinus and the abandonment and vigour with

which the composer played than the music
itself which touched the hearer, but he thought
he had never heard anything so splendid, and
he said so.

What an idiot the lad's father is, to be
sure ! ' he said to himself, as he sat and watched
rather than listened. ' All his own stuiST, begad ;
and what splendid stuff it is too ! ' He could
but think how proud he would have been had
Fate given him such a son, and he sat and
admired him until he felt all fatherly. And
Tom played himself into enthusiasm too, for it
is so easy to believe in one's own work in the
days of youth and hope and self-conceit. A
middle-aged man who is greatly enamoured of
his own work is perhaps not likely to be good
for much, but a lad who is not at times in love
with the product of his own brains is certain to
be good for nothing. Tom played the finale of
the first act, and heard in it a hundred things
the listener could not know — the soaring

soprano and the high-warning tenor, and the
wail of fiddles, and the long-drawn, snoring
groan of the 'cells, and the bird-Uke notes of
the flutes — and the white, sinewy hands grasped
the keys with greater and greater exigence of
power, until the chamber rang with the rich
thunder, and Tom, as he struck the final chord,
turned on Lording with such a face of triumph
and passion that the old fellow leapt to his feet,
clapped his hands, and shouted ' Bravo ! * withall
his heart.

If a lad like that couldn't get on, what was
the good of the world at all ?

This interlude did the composer a prodigious
deal of good also, insomuch that he
began to feel almost grateful to his father for
having been unjustly angry with him, and
having thrown him to struggle with the world.
He would make even that hard and cruel father
proud of him and glad to recall his false estimate
of him. When he and Lordinor had

parted, he went back to his work, and played
the opera through from start to finish as a
whet to the artistic appetite. And what a performance
he enjoyed, to be sure! Airs tongues
syllable the hereto, and the orchestra of
fancy was perfect at a single rehearsal An
hour after midnight he went to bed too tired
to sleep, and flmcy made him a free gift of all
lie had lost, and multiplied it tenfold vrith fame
and domestic bliss.

But, before she went to bed, Mary's father
had carried this letter to her, and had told her
all the story. She was awakened already to
the fact til at there was in the world a stronger
love than she had thought strong enough to
marry on, but if ever it could have been possible
to find a time when she would have been
willing to leave her lover, it would certainly
not be when he was in trouble and distress, and
had most need of all that was left to him. The
lovers had been close enough together by this

time for the girl to learn that the young man
loved her with all his heart, and that she was
more than anything and everything else in the
world to hin. She was not the less pledged to
Tom because he was in trouble. Father, if
anything, she was the more bound to him. To
that effect she wrote, expressing herself all the
more warmly because she found it necessary to
contradict the longings which went out after
freedom. Her letter made Tom perfectly
happy, and kept him at work until the opera
was finished, and inspired him so that his music
caught a touch of love's brightness.

A few days later Mark took up wdiat turned
out to be a permanent residence at Trench
House. The Lodgings and he saw but little of
each other, for Mr. Carroll was so mightily incensed
that he never forgave his neighbour to
the day of his death, and resigned his Commission
of the Peace rather than meet him. But
now and again they met, and Mary, who had

VOL. II. E

at first been inclined to dislike Mark because
he had profited by Tom's misfortune, learned to
think better of him. The end of the hunting
season was approaching, and Mary and her
father rode to the meet and there encountered
Mark. Lording shook hands with him cordially,
though the girl greeted him with the chilliest
little bow in the world. But the new heir to
the Trench House estate had good reasons for
standing well with his neighbours, and, not
being easily abashed, he refrained from following
the hounds that day, and attached himself
to Miss Lording, in spite of the broad hints
her manner gave him to be gone.

May I speak a word to you. Miss Lording?'
said Mark, as they rode homeward together,
and Lording jogged on behind in company with
a fellow magistrate encountered on the road.
Her manner gave him no encouragement, but
he took her cold silence for consent, and spoke
his word. ' In your own mind, Miss Lording,'

he began, ' you are doing me a very serious

wrong.

Indeed ? ' she answered curtly.

You are, indeed,' said Mark. ' You dome
the wrong to believe that I took the place
I hold with the intent to keep it permanently.
You think me scoundrel enough to accept this
position at my cousin's expense.' She looked
at him strangely — incredulously Mark thought.
You will see by-and-by that I am here as my
cousin's friend,' he went on, ' and that I only
serve the place of what in Parliament is called
a w^armhig-pan. You distrust me ; you do me
the injustice to believe that I would accept the
position that my uncle offers me ; and as a consequence
you dislike me. I don't like to be
disliked by the Queen of the County, and I
don't like to be misjudged. It's a very agreeable
little holiday for a poor man like me, if it
weren't for Tom's discomfort in the meantime,
but he knows from me that I am doing all I

E 2

can to straighten matters, and that I shall resign
in his favour as soon as I have brought my
uncle round.'

There was an air of jolly candour about
Mark as he said all this Which made the girl
condone even the phrase about the Queen of
the County, which (as may be admitted) was
not in the very best taste. No young man can
be perfect all round, and Mark's courtships,
numerous as they were, had one and all been
directed at ladies who liked their compliments
unaltered — neat, as they say of spirits. The
girl more than half believed him, and, since he
could do so much for Tom if he were so
minded, it was scarcely wise, in Tom's behalf,
to be at daggers drawn with him.

Confess it,' said Mark. ' You thought so
ill of me?'

I believed you human, Mr. Carroll,' she
responded, with a spice of satire in her tone.

I hope so,' Mark answered. ' Will you let

me tell you one thing, Miss Lording ? For a
man bred as I Alas, I've been horribly poor.
My profession never brought me a penny, and
if it hadn't been for Tom I don't know what I
should have done. Financially, I've always
been a lame dog, and Tom has always been
helping me over the stile at the expense of Ms
own pocket. I remember those things. Miss
Lording, and I'm not the man to do him an ill
turn in answer to all the good turns he has
done for me.'

Mr. Carroll,' said the girl, quite vanquished,
I am very sorry to have misjudged you.' She
held out her hand, and Mark reached across
his saddle and accepted it with the air of a
courtier before a queen.

In the glow of her partisanship for Tom she
felt almost certain of herself. Baretti was away,
and at times she prayed that she might never
see him again. And sometimes the warmth
and tenderness of her feeling for Tom so carried

lier away that she would wonder at her interest
in his friend, and the unknown and curious longing
which possessed her when she thought of him.
But even when it was that very warmth and
tenderness for Tom which brought Baretti into
her mind, she would fall into a delicious day-dream
about the artist, from which she would
awake with terror.

As for Mark, he had for the time at least
justified his position. He took to writing little
notes to Miss Lording in a cousinly, confidential
way, reporting the softened feelings which
seemed to be making way in Mr. Carroll's
breast, and in a little while the girl began to
look on him with friendly eyes, helped by her
father's constant belief in him.

Why,' the old fellow would say, ' he fought
his hardest at the time in Tom's behalf, when
he knew perfectly well what was going to
happen. He begged me to come down and
mediate with that pig-headed fellow, his uncle.

to prevent him from disinheriting Tom. A
very fie, unselfish, good-hearted lad is Mark.
A bit of a Quixote, like his cousin, but that's a
family trait.'

Mark, confident in his own astuteness,
played this game of his without fear of detection.
It was a habit of his to talk aloud or
half aloud when in solitude.

" The goat shall bear upon him all their
iniquities to a land not inhabited," ' said Mark,
smilingly, as he walked in the grounds of
Trench House one morning. He had met the
Lodgings an hour earlier, and they had been
beautifully friendly with him. ' All these nice
people would be ready enough to lay their own

faults on me and drive me out if I seem

pretty safely settled in the pasture now. If
anybody is injured by my being here it's the
girl who is going to marry Tom, and if she
speaks well of me it's a high testimonial. What
a nice girl she is ! So charmingly unworldly !

How faithfully she holds on to Tom in his
poverty ! And how sure she is that in a month
or two he'll be as well off as ever ! . . . Tommy
boy, I'm afraid you'll have to turn out quite
a bad sort of fellow. I remember, for instance,
that you made a single visit to the house of one
Signor Malfi — a single visit, Tom, and there was
such a rumpus between husband and wife that
they separated. But we can do much better than
that for you with a little thinking. I'm afraid
your interest in Miss Moore was equivocal, Tom
equivocal. I'm afraid — I'm afraid it's likely
to turn out so ; and there's Scripture for it,
Tom. " The goat shall bear upon him all their
iniquities to a land not inhabited." I shall have
to be desperately sorry, but I'm afraid it will
be a Christian duty, therefore unavoidable. Sofar
as my experience serves me, a Christian
duty — therefore unavoidable — is generally
beastly nasty for one side, and pleasantly profitable
for the other.'

It was characteristic of Mark that at this
time he spoke of his cousin with great freedom
to almost anybody who would listen to him, and
that he always used the most eulogistic terms.

My uncle will come round,' he would say
laughingly. ' He's one of the best fellows in
the world, and I can see him melting daily.
Tom's a splendid fellow, and it's a pity to see
such a father and son at locjcrerheads even for a
moment. I shan't lose by their reconciliation ;
for the simple reason that I never had any
claim on the property, and never could have.
And if I bring them together, I have a claim
on the gratitude of both of them.' Mark's
bonhomie would be irresistible whilst he talked
in this fashion, and his candour was wonderfully
inviting. ' It's a very good thing for a poor
dog like me, because it makes Tom my friend
for life when I've smoothed over his difficulties
for him. What an ill wind it is that blows
good to nobody.'

The general impression about Mark Carroll
was that he was a good-natured, rather easygoing
fellow, who was nobody's enemy — not
even his own.

When I perform my Christian duty,' he
would say sometimes, ' what a dangerous witness
I shall be.'

CHAPTEE XV.

There are many shabby streets on the Surrey
side of the water, and many grades of shabbiness
amongst them. Streets sunk into complete
poverty and hardship, but bearing some trace
of better times upon them ; streets born into
poverty and hardship, simply bred from their
beginning, but fighting hard to look genteel;
streets where decent window curtains and the
bit of worthless coral under a glass shade in
the window make just such a protest against
their abject surroundings as the mended gloves,
the suspiciously shiny hat, and the patched
boots of the ratepayers within — a protest altogether
inefficient and mournful ; streets more
desert than Sahara, as desolate in the sunshine

as the Bog of Allan in the rain ; streets on
which to enter is to be depressed. Cemeteries
for live people ^vith no flowers to make
them bright. Miles of mean sarcophagi on
end.

In one such street, the type of many, the
houses are built of a dirty wish yellowish brick,
and the line runs on for nearly half a mile in a
staring monotony of hopeless ugliness. Frostbitten
parlours lie behind the dwarfed railings
of cabined areas, and the little curio of the resident
stands plumb in the centre of the mean
window ; a hit of coral, a set of Indian chessmen,
wounded, with the white Queen missing;
a waxen apple of an unhealthy saffron tinge,
with a hectic dash of rouge on each cheek ; a
looking-glass pond six inches wide with a dirty
lily on it. Always, at the top of the glass
shade, there is a dejected circle of crotchet-work,
which goes to prove that the owners of
the frost-bitten parlours are not so harried by

the cares of life but that they can find time todo
something useless.

The houses in this street are so aggravating
alike that these trophies are memorable
to the wayfarer. A hand of white biscuit china
holding a prettily shaped cup, in which rested
a bouquet of real flowers, ought to have been
noticeable to any passer by. Perhaps it Alas
that which stopped Tom Carroll's footsteps at
the door.

His hand was raised towards the black
varnished knocker — gluey even in the wintertime,
and always indisposed to fulfil its functions
— when the door was opened for him, and
a bright face offered him a shy, unspoken welcome.
The girl's figure — for the shy, bright
face was a girl's — was tall, and lithe, and full ;
she was not exactly pretty, but was perhaps
better than pretty ; her eyes were beyond doubt
beautiful (a soft, warm brown in colour), and
her lips had that mobile and sensitive look

wych almost everybody has known to make a
plain face charming.

'Good morning, Miss Moore said Tom.
I trust your father is better.'

I ' I think he is — a little,' answered the girl,
holding the door at its widest, and squeezing
herself against the wall of the narrow passage
to make room for the visitor to get by. ' He
is downstairs, Mr. Carroll. It is the warmest
room in the house.'

Tom found his way down a breakneck flight
of steps, of a width befitting a doll's mansion,
and a depth altogether disproportionate. The
girl followed with a lighter and more accustomed
foot, and passing by him, threw open
the door which led into the family vault, or
front kitchen. There, in a stuffed arm-chair
by the fire, sat the elder Carroll's late tenant,
wizened in feature and stiff-set in expression.

You are better, Moore ? ' Tom asked, bending
over him.

No,' said the farmer in a wasted voice.
'Nor never shall be. Better? Where's the
chance of bettering a case like mine ? '

Father, dear,' said Azubah, ' you mustn't
be despondent

Mustn't I ? ' he asked, turning his unnaturally
bright eyes upon her. ' Why not ? '

Come, father,' said the girl, seating herself
by him, and stroking a thin hand, ' you are not
always like this.'

No,' he answered, with a contortion of the
stiffened features which would have been a
smile if he could. ' The best of men are not
always wise. There's one cure for my disease
churchyard mould — churchyard mould ! '

Tom thought this likely enough to be true,
but it is not easy to sit by and acquiesce in that
sort of prescription. ' Come, come, Moore,'
said the young man, a little feebly.

God bless my soul, sir,' said the farmer, in
that thin and husky voice of his, ' there's a bit

of sense left in the world yet, if I'm the only
owner of it. I can't be cured, and I've got to
be endured. There, there, Zubah, take it easy.
But never ask me if I'm better again. Mister
Thomas, for that sets my back up. When
I'm better, bury me ; it'll be all I shall befit
for.'

It was so unpleasant to sit by and listen to
this without being able to contradict it that
Tom broke in at once with the object of his
visit.

What about this dairy, Moore ? Mrs.
Moore knows all about the quality of the
things, and you might have a showman.'

The farmer, with his withered hands clasping
his shrunken knees, stared at the fire for a
time without answering.

It's like you to make the offer, sir, and I
won't say no to it. I haven't got the right to
say no to it. You must let us pay you interest
on the money till we can pay back the

principal, if the thing prospers — and I don't see
why it shouldn't.

Very well,' said Tom, ' that's a bargain.*
He had promised himself this delight before
his father's displeasure had fallen upon him. It
took five hundred pounds from his resources,
but he had not felt the pinch of impecuniosity
as yet, and had no fear of it. It is the burnt
child that dreads the fire.

The missis has been up to the place,' said
the farmer, ' and Bethesda's been with her.
They think that — stock and goodwill together
it's worth the money. You don't know
Bethesda, Mr. Thomas ? He's a little over-pious
for my taste, is Bethesda, but I think he
means well, and he's a keenest man of business.'


At this moment the sticky little black
knocker on the front door came into reluctant
action, and Azubah, ascending to answer the
summons, returned in a moment with Mr.

TOL. II. F

Bethesda behind her. Tom had not been
greatly noticing the girl whilst he and the
father had been talking, but he had a general
sense of her presence in the room, and that
general sense had been agreeable. There are
people who diffuse an atmosphere of sympathy,
and thus put all in their presence at ease and
make them natural. Azubah was one of these
people, but when Tom looked at her as she
came marching into the room, With Mr. Bethesda's
l^irge person and holy smile in her
train, he found a sudden contradiction in her
look. She was decidedly not sympathetic any
longer, but on a sudden had become quite hard
and frozen.

My friend ! ' said Mr. Bethesda, advancing
to the invalid and taking one thin hand between
his own fat palms. ' My Christian
brother ! '

My Christian friend ! ' returned the farmer,
with an unmoved face. He followed Mr. Bethesda's

portly form with an observant, glittering
eye. That gentleman bowed to Tom, and
smiled his humble and beneficent smile at him.
This is Mr. Carroll, Bethesda,' said the farmer,
the gentleman who is so good as to advance
me the money for that little business.' Mr.
Bethesda smiled at Tom again, as if to reward
him for his kindness. 'This is my Christian
friend Bethesda, Mr. Thomas. I was speaking
of him when he knocked, and saying he was a
trifle over-pious for my taste, but a keenest
man of business, and I think he means well.'

Our friend is a caustic humorist,' said Mr.
Bethesda to Tom ; ' a caustic humorist is our
friend.'

I was telling Mr. Carroll,' said the farmer,
with a waste-sounding cough or two behind his
hand, ' that you'd seen the place and looked it
over, and that you think it'll be a good investment.'


'With care and prudence, an admirable
p2

investment,' returned Mr. Bethesda. ' The
shop is well-appointed and respectably situated.
There is no rival establishment in the neighbourhood.
You have seen the establishment,
also, I believe, Miss Moore ? ' Azubah inclined
her head ever so Httle and looked harder than
before. ' A thriving neighbourhood,' said
Mr. Bethesda, 'and a connection likely to increase.'


Well, Mr. Thomas,' said the farmer, ' you
see that you have put us in a fair way to keep
our feet again. I shall be a drag on the place
for a time, but I can't last for ever, thank God,
and when I am gone they'll do very well, I
have no doubt.'

Father,' cried the girl in a pained voice,
*you must not talk like that.'

Well, well, my dear,' said her father ;
well, well.'

We do not live by bread alone,' said Mr.
Bethesda. ' The family affections are precious.'

He turned to Azubali as if to ask her sympathy
for this observation, but the girl purposely
avoided his glance, and Mr. Bethesda's
smile sat somewhat forlornly upon his features.

Is the new place far from here ? ' asked
Tom, more for the sake of breaking in upon
the talk than for the sake of the question.

You haven't seen it ? ' asked the farmer.
Take Mr. Carroll round and show it him,
Azubah, if he'd like to see it. A bit of a walk
will do you good. You'll give me my game of
chess, Bethesda. Get the board, Azubah.'

Mr. Bethesda's assent to the proposal for a
game at chess was given readily enough, and
he sat down to the table and arranged the
men, whilst the girl ran upstairs to dress for
out of doors.

Who is Mr. Bethesda ? ' asked Tom, when
he and the girl were in the street.

He is Mr. Bethesda,' she answered. He
whole manner had changed, and she was her

genial, sympathetic self again. ' " I do not like
thee, Dr. Fell." '

I thought as much,' said Tom. ' He
doesn't look a bad sort of fellow, though.'

He is a very good man, I believe,' answered
Azubah, ' and he has been very kind to father,
but '

« Exactly ! ' said Tom. ' A common case
enough.' They walked in silence for a minute.

I have never told you, Mr. Carroll,' said
the girl suddenly, ' how you came to see meat
that dreadful place. I can't bear that you
should think I went there knowingly. It was
Signora Malfi who took me there, and I don't
think that even she quite knew what sort of
place it was.'

'Miss Moore,' said Tom, 'I don't think
Signora Malfi is the sort of person for a young
girl to know.'

Indeed ! ' she answered, a little coldly.

Indeed ! ' said Tom, gently affirmative.

It is not like you, Mr. Carroll,' said Azu-
bah, with the air of one who speaks more in
sorrow than in anger, though with a little tinge
of anger too, ' it is not like you to speak ill of
a poor woman who is deserted by her husband.'

Deserted? ' asked Tom. ' I knew nothing
of that.'

Yes,' said the girl. ' She told me all the
story. Her husband was jealous of an English
gentleman who gave her English lessons, and
he actually turned her out of doors.'

This set Tom thinking, and kept him silent
and inattentive whilst Azubah defended the
Signora. Mark, then, had been right in his
belief about the lady, and she had been in love
with him. It was well, anyway, that Mark
was not to blame, and that he had a good
conscience in the matter ; for Tom's ideal of
virtue was lofty, and to most young men of
the world in his era would have looked absurd.
He came out of his reverie to hear Azubah

talking of the Signora still, and saying what a
brave struggle she had made.

She goes on singing at that place ? ' he
asked. ' The Megatherium ? '

What else can she do ? ' answered the girl
defensively. ' She must make a living. There
is no harm in singing there ; though I couldn't
bear to do it.'

I didn't mean to blame her,' Tom answered.
' She makes an honest living there,
and the artistic demands of her audience are
not beyond her powers.'

'Don't you think she's an artist, Mr.
Carroll?'

Tom laughed as he looked round at her,
and shook his head.

No,' he answered. ' Whatever else she is,
she is not an artist.' Azubah looked depressed
at this verdict. There was no going beyond
Mr. Carroll's judgment in the matter of music.
'About yourself. Miss Moore,' said Tom, a

moment later, ' if you would study you could
sing.'

I hope to be able to study now,' she
answered, thinking of the bettered prospects
of her father's household. To think of those
prospects was naturally to think of the man
who had given them, and who now walked at
her side. The shy, grateful, upward glance she
cast at him expressed much, but he missed it.

It is worth trying,' said Tom. ' For its
own sake in the first place, of course, and for
the pleasure it enables you to give to others.
But there are solid advantages to be gained.'

I wish I had been born a boy,' she said
suddenly, in answer to the ambitions these
words aroused in her mind. She blushed fierily
a second later at her own vehemence.

You want to go out and fight the world ? '
asked Tom. After the Megatherium experience
that was an easy guess.

I should like to,' she answered, blushing

still. ' I should like to be able to do something
besides pricking my fingers with needlework.'

It is a sort of duty to do whatever you
have a power to do,' said Tom. 'That's rather
a loosely constructed aphorism, by the way,' he
added, with a laugh. ' I mean, of course,
provided it be virtuous," as the clergyman
said to the antiquary's sister.'

She was not so shy with him as she would
have been with any other young man of his
years. They had known each other ever since
she could remember, and he had never made
her feel the difference which existed in their
social position. She had always known the
difference, but it had never come home to her
disagreeably. And he was not merely her old
companion, but he was both an artist and a
man. He knew the world, and the world of
art within it, and he could sympathise with her
if she laid bare before him her own hopes, and
he could tell her how far they bade fair to be

realised. She burned with all this, and her
desire struggled with her shyness, until at last
it won, and she spoke, though with a good
deal of tremor.

'Do you think, Mr. Carroll, that I could
ever be an artist ? '

A musician ? Yes. Certainly.'

Do you think that if I worked hard I
could make money, by-and-by, as a singer ? '

Yes,' he said again ; ' certainly.' He did
not quite like the question about money. He
himself had never felt the want of it ; and he
said in a grave way : ' An ambition is not likely
to lead you far beyond itself, Miss Moore. You
must have a loftier aim than that if you wish
to be an artist.'

Yes,' she said simply ; ' but I am obliged
to think of money too. I should like to do
something for father, and I should like to take
the heavier cares off mother's shoulders. That
is why I asked about money.'

That is quite right,' he answered. ' You
will cost them something in the first instance,
and it is only just that you should wish to
repay it. You were taking lessons from Signora
Malfi, were you not ? You must choose a
better instructor. It will not be difficult to
find one. Will you leave the choice in my
hands ? '

She assented gratefully, and the impracticable
young man laid another burden upon
himself at once. Moore would never be able
to pay the terms of the teacher of music to
whom Tom intended that the girl should go ;
but he could make a private arrangement, and
so save the farmer's pocket and his pride at
the same time. It would only be a hundred
or two, and he could save it in other ways, and
besides that there was the opera, now nearly
finished, and ready to be placed. Nobody as
yet knew what an El Dorado the performance
of that great work might lead to.

The teacher of Tom's choice was not the
man whose name stood highest in London,
but, in Tom's opinion, he was far and away the
best, and it was likely that the young man's
judgment was not greatly at fault. By special
arrangement the teacher's terms were so subdued
that the farmer was able to pay them,
and Tom made up the difference.

The Moores knew nothing of his fall from
fortune, though it is probable that he would
have told them of it candidly enough had it
come about in another way, and if they had
'not been in want of his assistance. And he
himself was not fully persuaded that his father
was immovable. Mark's letters, for one thing,
were always cheering, and if they were to be
believed his father was beginning to recognise
the injustice with which he had acted. Tom
could not fail to see how handsome and manly
it was in Mark to try to throw himself out
of the saddle in his behalf, and he felt extremely

kind and grateful towards his cousin. A virtue
which in himself would have seemed downright
commonplace and inevitable was admirable
in another in his eyes. This is not often the
case with people, but then Tom Carroll was
abnormally generous and sympathetic, looking
much more at another man's side of a case than
at his own, and seeing his own interests signified
and another man's interest magnified, everywhere
and always. That was not the practice
of worldly wisdom, and, in short, he was a
young man born to be choused, hoodwinked,
and borrowed from. The houses and borrowers
mistook him for a fool, naturally enough,
but then human estimates of human qualities
and motives were made to differ from the beginning.


The opera, being finished, was submitted
to various authorities, and Tom Carroll began
to know something of the spurns that patient
merit of the unworthy takes. Nobody openly

insulted him, but he saw his own work passed
over for work which he knew to be inferior,
only it had known names attached to it, and
failed without imperilling the judgment of
managers. The thing that galled hun most
was that publishers and critics and managers
would let the score lie for a month together
untouched, and then, on being reminded of
its existence, would send it back with the seals
unbroken. He was an impetuous young man,
and at last, and after not so very long a time
either, he came to an impetuous resolution.
He would take a theatre on his own hook,
bring out the opera in English as it stood, score
a magnificent success — ' cela va sans dire ^ to
youthful genius, confident of itself — and shame
all these sleepy and unalienable wretches,
who had missed their share of the glory. Also
he would coin a pile of money, and rejoice in
the sight of their cupidity from his own Tom
Tiddler's Ground, whilst he picked up gold

and silver which their itching fingers could not
reach. He took nobody's advice about this
step, and let nobody know of it.

To begin with, he examined his funds and
found himself with a trifle over seven thousand
pounds in hand. What might it take to bring
out an opera in really befitting style? Two
thousand pounds ? He decided on that as
being ample, sold his consols, and set the result
to his own private account at the bank. Next
he issued an advertisement, ' Wanted, the services
of a competent and experienced theatrical
manager.' This, appearing in the ' Era,' drew
on him a very snow-storm of correspondence,
addressed to Alpha, of such and such a number,
in Ely Place. He sat over the letters for days,
bewildered by an embarrassment of choice. It
appeared beyond belief that there were or ever
had been such a number of theatrical managers
in England as he found to answer his advertisement.
But there were only a few amongst

the mass who gave reliable and definite in -
formation about themselves and their antecedents,
and having gradually winnowed these
from the others, he sat down to weigh and
consider their respective probabilities. After
deep cogitation he selected one A.B. as being
the most promising, and wrote to the said
A.B. requesting an interview. A.B. had for
six years managed the Oberon and for five the
Garrick. His record at each of these popular
houses was unimpeachable and open to inquiry.
He had for the past six or seven years retired
from active labors but private speculations
had proved unfortunate, and he was willing to
enter the ring again. Thus A.B., who wrote
in a large hand, and a somewhat ponderous
and polysyllabic style. Rectitude, business
capacity, and misfortune in private speculation
seemed, taken in conjunction, to promise
well to Tom Carroll. The meeting was appointed
to take place at Tom s own chambers,

VOL. II. G

on a certain Monday, at mid-day, and the
young fellow sat alone expectant. A ring at
the bell apprised him of the probable arrival
of his visitor ; a knock at the door announced
the visitor nearer.

Come in,' cried Tom.

'A gentleman to see you, sir,' said the
maid, ' by appointment.'

And to Tom Carroll's wonder he beheld
the portly form and the amiable smile of Mr.
Anthony Bethesda.

Good morning, Mr. Carroll,' said Mr.
Bethesda, beaming humility and benevolence.
I received your letter, and though I did not
know but that the name might be that of
another gentleman, I half fancied that it might
prove that you had some knowledge of me.'

Mr. Bethesda's garments were still decidedly
clerical in cut, but his white necktie had been
set aside in favour of a black stock, and he
looked like a bishop in a mild disguise.

I should not have thought that theatrical
management had been at all in your line, Mr.
Bethesda,' said Tom, recovering a little from
his siu-prise.

'I began life upon the boards,' returned
Mr. Bethesda, ' and until the year '63 I remained
in active connection with stage life.
My record is remembered yet, I have reason
to believe, and if you will take the trouble to
refer to the gentlemen whose names I have
given, they will speak of me favourably.'

Yes ? ' said Tom, and demanded his terms.
Mr. Bethesda gave them, and they seemed
moderate enough.

'Whether I should be so fortunate as to
meet your approbation or not, Mr. Carroll,'
said the applicant, ' I should like to ask one
favour of you, if I may. May I rely upon you
not to mention this application — at present at
least — to any person you may happen to know
in the immediate neighbourhood of my pi-sent
& 2

residence. I know the prejudice which exists

amongst the breath amongst religious people

as a mass against the theatrical profession, and
1 might damage my own usefulness if my return
or intended return to my old line of life
were known.'

I have to concern myself with nothing,
Mr. Bethesda,' said Tom, ' but your fitness for
the position you ask for. If you have any
private confidences, I shall respect them. I
want a first-rate theatrical manager, and I must
have one.'

I was said to be a first-rate manager in
my day,' said Mr. Bethesda, meekly, 'and I
have forgotten nothing. Except the profanity
which once seemed necessary to the due fulfilment
of a manager's duties.'

Well, Mr. Bethesda,' said Tom, ' I shall
make inquiries in the direction your letter
points me to, and I'll let you know within the
week.'

Mr. Bethesda withdrew, and Tom set about
bis inquiries that afternoon.

Bethesda ? ' said the manager of the
Oberon. ' Bethesda ? Oh, yes ! I knew
Bethesda. Competent ? Either. Smart man
was Bethesda — very smart indeed. Honest
and reliable ? We-ell, I should think so. Sever
heard anything against him. Left everything
here in apple-pie order. Gave perfect satisfaction.
Mr. Bethesda coming back to business,
sir? A decided acquisition, I should say, to
any house in London.'

So far good. Future inquiries confirmed
this favourable verdict, and Mr. Bethesda was
engaged.

Now, my first step, Mr. Bethesda,' said
Tom, ' will be to rent a theatre.'

I have made inquiries already,' said the
new manager. ' The Garrick is in the market.
Went two thousand.'

Tom Carroll whistled, but a moment's

reflection reassured him. It would be ridiculous
to include the year's rent of a theatre in your
estimate for bringing out a work. You must
have a theatre to begin with.

First-rate house,' said Mr. Bethesda. ' Enjoys
a good reputation, and is in fair repair.
Has an admirable situation also. Shall I see
about it ? '

Yes,' said Tom, with a little inward chill,
you'd better see about it.'

And what are we going to produce, sir ? '
asked Mr. Bethesda.

Opera,' said Tom.

Bougie ? ' asked Mr. Bethesda.

No. Serious opera.'

Italian ? ' asked Mr. Bethesda again.

No. English.'

It was Mr. Bethesda's turn to whistle.

CHAPTER Xii.

In four or five weeks' time the piece running
at the Garrick dried up for want of audiences,
and Tom entered upon his lease. Mr. Bethesda
placed cunning paragraphs here and there, and
did his best to excite public interest in the new
fortunes of the house. The lessee and the
manager held many lengthy consultations as to
the artistes to be engaged, and Tom was for
having everybody of the best to be got for love
or money ; but he paled a little at the terms
people asked. He began to see in a fortnight
or thereabouts that he was risking nearly everything,
and that a failure would break him.
This discovery, after depressing him for a little
time, awoke all his energies, and he worked and

schemed all the day and half the night. It was
impossible to get together such a body of performers
as he wished for without considerable
delay, but before eight weeks had gone by
since Mr. Bethesda's engagement, the band was
in rehearsal daily, and Tom was conducting in
person.

At the second or third rehearsal, Mr.
Bethesda entered with a card between his
thumb and finger. He waited for a pause, and
then handed the bit of pasteboard to his employer.


'I was unwilling to disturb you, sir,' he
said, ' but the gentleman was so certain that
you would admit him '

Where is he? ' cried Tom, throwing down
his baton. In another minute he was in the
corridor of the house, shaking hauds with
Baretti. ' My dear old fellow ! How glad I
am to see you ! Why dicit you let me know
of your coming ? Come in, come in.'

Baretti came in, after shaking hands half a
dozen times.

I reached London this morning,' he said,
and they told me at the old place where I
should find you. What are you doing? Is
your opera accepted ? '

Yes,' said Tom, gaily. In spite of his
anxieties he could be gay again at the sight of
his friend. ' The opera is accepted by the
lessee of the Garrick Theatre, Mr. Thomas
Carroll.'

You have taken the house ? ' asked Baretti,
and Tom nodded in response. ' Let me listen
to the rehearsal. I must not interrupt your
work. Go on.'

Tom resumed the baton and the work went
on again, the little artist beating time with his
hand and nodding his head to the music, as he
stood in the dusk behind. The composer was
ready to dismiss the band earlier than usual,
for he was eager to talk with Baretti, but the

new arrival would not hear of this, and the
customary day's work was gone through.
When the two friends at last quitted the theatre
and reached the clearer light of open day, Tom
saw how pale Baretti was, and noticed a look
of pain and trouble in his face.

I have not been well,' the painter answered
to his inquiries, ' and I have been uncomfortable.
There is nobody at Naples. It was sad
to be there, Carroll. The old friends are dead,
or they have wandered away, or they are
changed, and Naples is no place for me any
longer.'

Have you been working too hard ? ' asked
Tom. ' You look as if you had.'

Perhaps I have,' said Baretti. ' I have had
nothing but work to occupy me, and I have
felt restless when away from it.'

Tom took the little man home, and they
spent the whole afternoon in talk.

The scenery goes for something,' said the

painter, as they sat smoking together. ' Have
you made arrangements for it ? '

I have left all that to the manager,' Tom
answered. ' It is in hand, I know, but I don't
know who has it.'

You must let me paint one scene, at least,'
said Baretti, decisively ; ' I must have a finger
in the pie.'

So you shall, old fellow,' cried the other,
and they began to talk business, Tom laying
down the lines of the opera, and Baretti hastening,
pencil in hand, and sketching as he listened.

The artist had not spoken of Mary, though
she was uppermost in his thoughts, but he
began to glide towards the mention of her
name.

Your father,' he said, as he stooped over
his drawing, ' is he well ? '

I believe so,' answered Tom.

And all the people at Overhill ? '

They are all well according to the latest

advices,' said Tom, trying to speak carelessly.
He could not as yet bring himself to tell of the
separation which had taken place.

I had expected to hear of your marriage
before this,' said Baretti, quietly.

That is deferred for a time,' said Tom.

Deferred ? ' asked Baretti, without looking
up. ' There is nothing the matter ? '

Well, there is,' Tom answered, reluctantly.
I am not on very good terms with my father
just at present.'

He disapproves of your having taken the
theatre ? '

No,' said Tom. ' He doesn't know of it.
It's another matter. I'd rather not talk about
it now, Baretti, if you don't mind.'

'I beg your pardon,' said the little man.
The marriage deferred? What might that
mean .? That devil of Egotism, who les in wait
for every man, sprang out at him, and assailed
him. Was there a straw of hope to cling to

after all ? But Baretti, in the dreary and lonesome
days which had gone by since his departure
from England, had slain that demon too
often to be conquered by him now, and he put
the tempting thought away from him. Only
he felt that if he had guessed at any hitch,
or the possibility of anj^ hitch in Tom Carroll's
love affairs, he would have stayed away from
England still.

The upper rooms being still vacant, Baretti
took them again and worked there as of yore.
When he first met Carroll on his return he had
noticed no change in him, but with intimate
intercourse there came times when the youngster
was off* his guard and let his careworn face
peep out from beneath the mask of cheerfulness
he habitually wore. And the more careworn
and anxious Tom looked, the oftener, and
with the more force, Baretti's demon of egotistic
hope assailed him, until the painter felt
wretched with his own temptations, and

ashamed of his own baseness, though he fought
them like a hero. He would sit over his cigar
in his friend's room of a night, watching Tom's
thoughtful and anxious countenance with a
look which his own self-accusations made
tenderer and more watchful than it would
otherwise have been, and once or twice the
new lessee caught this fixed gaze, and seemed to
read a sort of reproach in it. If he were sure
of anything in the world he was sure of Baretti's
friendship, and so honest a devotion merited
confidence. And besides that — setting his own
delicacy apart — he wanted sympathy, and he
was beginning to be sadly in need of hope, and
he knew that Baretti would have both for him
in plenty. So at last he told the story.

He met the little man's brooding, watchful
glance so full one night, and his own glance
recognised so completely the anxiety and
friendship of it, that Baretti arose and laid both
hands upon his shoulders.

Carroll,' he said, ' I do not ask you for
any confidence you do not care to givCj but
you are in trouble. Can I help you? Anyway
? You can ask me nothing that I will not
at least try to do. You know that ? '

It was in answer to this appeal that the
story came out. There was a terrible temptation
to Baretti's selfish hopes in it, but he
listened quietly and fought his demon, and
gave Tom in full measure all the sympathy and
all the prophecy of ultimate success he stood in
need of.

'Lording was right,' cried the painter,
marching up and down the room in his old
way. ' The money cannot be allowed to make
a difference . And you are right also. Justify
your own aspirations. Work ! This is no
world for idle people. Sweet are the uses of
adversity, which, like the toad, ugly and
venomous, wears yet a precious jewel in his
head. It is not natural to think that your

father will always be wrong, and you will be
all the better for having been thrown for a time
upon your own resources. You will be a great
man, Carroll. I tell you so, and I know what
music should be. You have a spark of the fire
Prometheus stole.'

I shall work,' said Tom, a little shamefaced
as usual, at Baretti's enthusiasm. His
friends at least believed in him, and everybody
knows what a help that is in any sort of doubtful
enterprise.

You will work,' said Baretti, ' and you
will prosper. England is in need of some man
to come to the front in music. When the right
man comes she will answer.'

Yes,' said Tom, ' when the right man
comes ! '

Work ! ' cried the painter, again turning
upon him vehemently, ' Believe yourself the
right man, and do justice to the conviction. I
never paint a picture which does not seem

whilst I paint it the most excellent and beautiful
in the world. I can see its faults a week
after, but if it had faults whilst I worked at it I
could do nothing. Believe in yourself It is
the only way to greatness.'

Tom broke out laughing, and at that Baretti
laughed also.

But there is something in what I say, after
all,' said the little man, with extreme gravity, a
moment later.

At this juncture the maid tapped at the
door, and, being invited to enter, asked for Mr.
Baretti.

A gentleman to see you, sir,' said the maid.
I went to your own room, sir, but I thought
you might be here.'

Baretti took the card from the salver the
maid carried.

'Ask the gentleman to walk up to my
rooms,' he said. 'This is my friend, Malfi,'
turning to Tom. ' You remember meeting

VOL. II. H

him once with me ? I will bring him down
by-and-by, and we will have a little music'

Now Tom was not particularly anxious to
meet Signor Malfi after what had happened
with respect to cousin Mark, but he had no
such active objections to him that he could
bring himself to forbid him his rooms. He
could at a future time give Baretti a hint of
what had happened, and Malfi would not be
likely to come again. The painter went upstairs
to meet his friend, and Tom lit his pipe
and sat down to his score. Even now that the
opera was in full rehearsal he could scarcely
keep his fingers oiF it.

Baretti was lighting the gas when Signor
Malfi presented himself. He kissed the artist
on both cheeks, and the artist kissed him on
both cheeks, and then they sat down and began
to chatter animatedly about trifles.

And how is Madame ? ' asked Baretti in a
minute oi two. The siiif^er stretched out a

hand against him, as if to push that theme
away.

What is the matter ? ' asked the other in
surprise.

I have dismissed her,' said Malfi, darkly.
She played me false. I have never thought
of blaming you for it, but you began it.'

I began it ? ' cried Baretti, in amazement.

You met me with Caterina one day in the
streets,' explained the singer. ' There were
two Englishmen in your company. One of them
spoke Italian.'

Malfi,' said the painter, ' they are both as
honourable and open as the day.'

Signor Malfi 's loud laugh of scorn at this
declaration was not pleasant to listen to, nor
was his face pleasant to look at when he
laughed.

If you suspect either of them, you wrong
yourself,' said Baretti.

He used to visit her, I tell you,' cried the

H 2

operatic tenor, leaping to his feet, and declaiming
with prodigious gesture, ' under pretence of
teaching her his own accursed language. I
hired an attic on the other side of the street,
and watched them through my glasses for hours
together, and saw them kissing one another. I
tracked her one night to his rooms, and though
he had hidden her somewhere when I followed
her, I knew that she was there. He came out
when I had gone to see if I where altogether out
of the way, and in a little while she left his
rooms alone. I followed her home and told
her what I knew. It was a wonder I did not
kill her then and there.' If he had been half
as enraged then as the telling of the story made
him, it looked a wonder still. His swarthy face
had taken an ugly tint of whitish-green, and
his heavy lips were pallid, and so dry that at
times he had to moisten them with his tongue.
I told her what I knew, and she proclaimed it
all antedated me.'

Baretti sat silent.

'I bade her go,' pursued Malfi, 'and I
threatened him. I told her that he should not
live to boast of his conquest. Then this came
out — that my visit to his rooms, whilst she was
there, had so frightened him that he had cast
her off. " You may leave him to me," said
Caterina. She will kill him,' he continued, with
a rejoicing smile, ' and then the law will hang
her, and I shall have a safe revenge upon them
both.'

This reflection appeared to soothe him. He
smoothed all his ruffled feathers at once, and,
sitting down, ita cigar and smoked it, with the
rejoicing smile now broadening and now fading
in his eyes. Baretti had been ready with a
question, which was stopped by this last statement.
He had been about to ask how it was
that the Signora had not run to her lover when
Malfi sent her packing, but the query was
answered beforehand, and he sat silent. The

singer also kept silence for a while, and, being
left to himself, gradually assumed his ordinary
aspect and manner ; and they talked about
indifferent things indifferently for half-an-hour,
when Malfi rose to go. Baretti saw him out,
and on his return to his own room was waylaid
by Carroll.

You didn't bring Malfi down, after all,'
said Tom. ' To tell you the truth, I'm glad of it.
I don't want to meet him. There has been some
disturbance between him and my cousin Mark.'

You knew of that ? ' asked Baretti.

'Yes,' said Tom. 'It seems that Malfi
wasn't married to that woman whom he called
his wife. Mark gave her lessons in English,
and lie took such a fancy to him that he got
afraid of her and asked me to go and sit at the
lessons to keep clear of scandal. I went once,
and no more. But the lessons seem to have
come to an abrupt termination ; Malfi got
jealous, and the woman left him.'

Lie-was not his wife?' said Baretti. 'I
did not know that.' Tom's account of the
matter threw a new light upon it, and he was
puzzled as to the true colour and dimensions of
the whole affair.

Has Malfi said anything to you about it ? '
inquired Tom.

Yes,' said Baretti, and began to tell Malfi's
story.

I tell you exactly how it is,' said Tom,
when the painter had finished. ' The woman
pestered Mark, as was fairly well proved by his
asking me to go with him — she hunted him up
at his chambers — this jealous Malfi fellow follows
her — Mark to avoid a row hides her, and
tells her afterwards that she must bother him
no more. It's as plain as a pikestaff.'

Baretti said nothing and seemed to acquiesce
in Tom's view of the case, but the whole thing
set him thinking. He was not by nature of a
very suspicious turn of mind, and he had been

well disposed to Mark Carroll, but the idea had
got fixed in him somehow or other that Mark
had been making a caspar of his unsuspecting
cousin. Baretti's life had not been what Tom's
had been, and to an Italian youngster Mark's,
affected prudery looked affected. And having
regard to Mark's present position in relation to
Tom's affairs, the painter began to think that
any attempt to hoodwink the said Tom would
speak poorly for Mark's bona fides. Baretti
would have thought Httle enough of an intrigue
until he fell in love — but he would have
managed it by himself, and would not have
tried to drag into it another who was innocent
of it. If Mark had acted as he guessed, Mark
was not to be trusted. Everything was vague
enough just now, but there was ground for
suspicion, and Baretti was uneasy in his friend's
behalf.

His uneasiness led him to ask after a little
time for a look at Mark's letters, and they more

than half converted him, they were so hearty in
their tone, and recognised so plainly the impossible
motive of the elder Carroll's wishes. ' In
the meantime,' wrote Mark, ' I am, of course,
in clover, and if it were not for a sense of your
anxieties I should be comfortable. But there
is nothing to be feared at the finish, and you
have, in your mother's fortune, enough to live
on for a dozen years in comfort, even if your
father's mistaken animosity could last so long.
But he is melting day by day, and though a
constant advocacy would be injudicious with a
man of his determined temper, I put in a word
when I can, and it is easy to see that in a little
while he will begi)i to show symptoms of relenting.
Don't answer me, for I dare not have it
known that I am in correspondence with you.
And I rely upon you not to offend your father
with me either now or hereafter by any proclamation
of the part I played. I am too
poor to dare to offend him.' This all seemed

honest enough, and it was hard in the face of
it to retain suspicion, but Baretti was still a
little uncertain, and would fain have kept a
watch on Mark if he had seen the way to do

It had appeared upon inquiry that there was
ample room for Baretti's efforts towards the fitting
production of Tom's opera, and the devoted
one spent a week or two in hard work at the
designing of scenes and in superintending their
execution. The acute Bethesda circulated new
paragraphs respecting this. The celebrated artist
had been specially retained to design the scenery
and dresses. Baretti's recent pictures had
brought his name a good deal to the front,
and the announcement was not without its
value.

Tom wrote to Lording that the great work
would appear at a given date, and the old boy
took Mary up to town to hear and see it. The
furniture in the town-house was stripped of its

brown-holland grave-clothes — for why should
the young people be kept apart more than need
be? — and Tom, of course, was free of the
house and went and came as he pleased. Lording
took to haunting the theatre, and was
amazingly proud to meet singers in the actual
pursuit of their vocation behind scenes. Mr.
Bethesda was publicly announced as Lessee
and manager, and Lording had no idea of
Tom's venture in the business. The youngster
was sorry for the deception, but Lording knew
his financial position so well that Tom foresaw
a quarrel, or something very like it, if the truth
should be revealed. The elder would have
been sure to want to share the risk, and Tom
had fully determined that nobody else should
endanger a penny. He lived in alternate hope
and dread. Success meant everything he
wished for. Failure meant the complete extinguishment
of his hopes, except in the improbable
contingency of his father's relenting. The

young man's hopes and fears were in proportion
to the reality of affairs, and his face looked
worried and anxious.

But no hopes and fears can stop or hasten
the course of the days, and the great night
,took its own time in coming. The house was
crammed in all the better parts, but the gallery
was sparsely peopled. Nobody took notice of
that significant fact except Mr. Bethesda.
Tom conducted in person on this first night,
and Lording and Mary had a private box
almost immediately above him. Baretti sat in
the stalls, and saw them when he came in.
They saw him also, and he was constrained to
acknowledge their presence, though he would
rather have passed unobserved. The thought
of Mary's nearness disturbed him, so that he
heard nothing of the music for the first half-hour,
and scarcely noticed the burst of applause
which greeted his own stage picture when the
curtain rose. Mary's thoughts about Baretti

were contradictory. She had been longing to
see him, and her heart's only food had been to
hear of him for months past, and now that he
was back again she was angry that he was thereto
disturb her loyalty to Tom, and to close her
ears to Tom's opera.

The subject of the work was the story of
Godiva and Tom was his own poet and playwright,
a fact which did not tell greatly in the
opera's favour, perhaps. Yet the first performance
went well ; the principal performers were called
and recalled, one or two movements were redemanded,
and at the close the composer received
what it is the fashion to call an ovation.

Vir. Bethesda displayed a chastened joy, and
Tom ran round to the box in which his goddess
sat, and was there congratulated. The girl was
going to marry him, and be loyal to him, and
the very treason of her own heart made her
anxious to be warm and kindly to the lover who
had suffered so undeserving. She thought with

a flush of pride that she would have a man for a
husband, and not a male clothes horse, as ninety-nine
out of every hundred of the society men
she met seemed to be. For she despised the
young men of average intellect, who made it a
point to veil what wits they had, and she
admired with all her heart the men of brains
who wrote books and music, and painted pictures
and guided the destinies of States. You
gave her more delight if you took her where
she could change a word with a statesman, a
popular writer, or a member of the Forty than
she could extract out of a score of dances, though
she liked dancing well enough too, and was not
indisposed to receive the admiration she met ina
ball-room. To-night the whole world present
had done homage to her husband who was to
be, and the pride and joy in Tom's face was
reflected in her own.

Baretti, who had been delayed in leaving
the house by the slow stream that crawled idly

out of stalls and balconies, could not refrain
from one look in the direction of Lording's box.
He knew where Tom had run to after his final
bow, and he saw the glance almost of exultation
with which the lovely woman held out
both hands to welcome him. Lording and
Tom, as the fates would have it, caught Baretti
looking, and they both beckoned him so plainly
that he could not pretend to have missed the
invitation, and reluctantly made his way round
to them. Mary schooled herself to receive him,
and there was nothing in her manner or in his
to indicate the tremor each felt at the other's
presence.

The painter was pale and sad, but he
brightened and warmed over his friend's
success.

I told you, Carroll,' he said, ^ that there
was a need for some man to come to the frontin
music. And I told you that England would
listen when he came.'

We shall see,' Tom answered, brightly.
He was as happy as he had ever been. The
fortune this father had taken from him so
wrongfully might be restored or kept for cousin
Mark. He cared nothing for it. With-he
experience of that night behind him, he felt
that he could carve his own way to fortune,
and had no need of extraneous help. He was
glad that for a time he had been thrown upon
himself.

You will excuse me now,' he said. ' I
must not forget my company. I must run
round and thank Moselle. He sang magnificently.
So did Madame Ravine. I must say
a word to them. May I call for half-an-hour
later on ? Then, no good-byes at present.
Will you come, Baretti ? '

He ran down to the green-room, followed
by his friend, and the singers there gathered
applauded as he entered. Mr. Bethesda was
opening champagne for the baptism of Success,

and Tom clinked glasses with a score of people.
Everybody congratulated everybody, and the
scene was particularly gay and animated.

If we go on like this, Bethesda,' said Tom,
as he drew on his gloves and buttoned his overcoat
to go, when all this exuberance was over
and the room was cleared — ' If we go on like
this, Bethesda, we shall make our fortunes.'

Well, no, sir,' returned Bethesda ; ' we
shan't quite do that, but the thing is evidently
going to be much less costly than I feared.'

You thought we should lose money on
it,' said Tom, lightly.

Well, sir,' said Bethesda, with his humble
and compassionate smile, ' that's inevitable, of
course, where the house won't hold enough for
the nightly expenses.'

Tom Carroll fairly glared at the smiling
manager until his smile faded, and he stood
rubbing his hands with an aspect altogether
rueful.

VOL. II. I

Is that the case here ? ' Tom demanded,
after pausing half a minute.

I thought that was clearly understood, sir,'
said Bethesda. ' I laid the figures before you
clearly. There has never been such a company
got together before in a house like this, and
after this night's reception the thing is safe to go
for a while. But if you cram the house every
night, we're just five pounds under the sum of
our working expenses. Taking to-night as
representative, the loss would be fifteen pounds.
The gallery was almost empty.'

Call it a loss of a hundred pounds a week,
Baretti,' said the successful composer, turning
blankly on his friend. ' I can't afford to go on
long at that rate.'

Call it two hundred a week, sir,' said
Bethesda, mildly. ' It will be nearer that than
the other.'

Then we shan't make our fortunes after
all, Bethesda,' said Tom, recovering himself.
Good-night. Come along, Baretti.'

CHAPTEE XVII.

The Signora Caterina was walking along the
Strand in a melancholy and despondent mood.
She was not so well dressed as it had been
her custom to be, not nearly so well dressed as
she liked to be. Her finery was naturally all
the worse for having been fine, and its showy
colours gave signs of having been cleaned too
often. Bronzed boots, grey at the toes, soiled
lavender gloves mended, a plush coat or mantle
creased and threadbare, and a hundred other
signs of poverty and decay were noticeable
about her. These broad indications of late
outrageous finery and present poverty, taken*
in conjunction with the Signora's silly habit of
disfiguring her eyes and eyebrows, gave her an
I 2

aspect which was worse than she deserved to
wear, though it has been admitted already that
she was not a model woman. But there are
grades in everything, and she looked many
grades lower than she had fallen, or was likely
to fall.

She held her head well up, and walked
with a certain pride and defiance in her aspect,
which made her shabby finery the more remarkable.
Men stared at her broadly, women
with sidelong glances of aversion drew away
from her if she paused at a shop window, and,
proud as she looked, the tears were near her
eyes pretty often. She was by no means a
tearful young woman as a rule, but there are
physical conditions which make room for the
play of the more mournful emotions. One of
these conditions may be brought about by
hunger, and the Signora was hungry. The
sensation until a day or two ago had been unknown
to her. There are millions of people in

the world who have never been hungry in
their lives, and she had been amongst them.
She had thought herself hungry often enough,
and had always owned a fine, healthy appetite,
which had made the dinner-hour a pleasant
lime, so long as it brought dinner with it.
But now she knew what hunger meant, and its
cruel, yearning nausea burned her, and bit at
her, and sickened her, until she could have
snarled like a wild animal at the unattainable
tempting things to eat displayed in the shop
windows.

She had no purpose in being abroad, but it
happened that wide London was the only home
she owned just then. The Megatherium engagement
had long ago come to an end, and
no renewal had followed it, nor had any other
opening presented itself. She owned the clothes
she stood in, and nothing more. Landladies
have to live, like other people, and non-paying
tenants admit the necessity for their own eviction,

except in Ireland. To have been well-fed
and well-dressed, and in a way courted and
admired, made this destitution and despair the
bitterer. There was one man whom she had
to thank for it all, and he was the only creature
who had ever given her a thought of purity
since she had been a little child, though the
purity awoke somehow in her own heart, the
gift of her own awakened nature, and not his
gift at all. There was a way out of hunger
even now, and if she had never seen Mark
Carroll she would have taken it. People talk
of virtue as if it were a fixed quantity ; and
that, of course, is sad nonsense. This young-woman
had been reared in a moral slum, and
the surroundings into which she was born
looked natural to her. Yet when a door
opened and she beheld a room swept and
garnished she had native virtue enough to like
the look of it and to long to dwell there. The
pictures which garnished that figurative apartment

might not be to your taste or to mine,
but then you are a connoisseur in virtue, and
your trained eye would detect the false colour
and the bad drawing, whilst hers looked with
worship on the artistic daub. It was Mark
Carroll who had seemed to open that door for
her, and what she had to give she gave him in
reward. It was certainly he who had tried to
throw her back into the natal slum, and certainly
he who had shut the door in her face,
and in proportion as she could have loved him
she hated him. The pangs of hunger, the
averted glances of women, and the garments
drawn aside were all added to Mark Carroll's
score, and she was helpless to repay him.
Bitter hunger, bitter hate, scorn, despair, self-pity
— the Signora's shabby plush mantle covered
them all, and her black eyes sometimes failed
to cover one or two of them.

To be miserable and homeless and unemployed
leads — amongst other things — to a

singular interest in trifles, and the Signora
stopped to regard countless objects she had
never before cared to look at. With other
matters of equal importance to her she looked
curiously at the theatrical bills in the windows
of Strand public-houses, or at the doors of the
theatres themselves. Her knowledge of English
was by this time considerable, and she could
read with some approach to comfort. One
announcement (which attracted her attention
neither more nor less than a dozen others she
had seen already and had stood to read) set
forth that the magnificently successful English
opera ' Godiva ' would be repeated until further
notice. A smaller bill beside it ran thus :
Garrick Theatre. Sole Lessee and Manager
Mr. Bethesda. Godiva, written and composed
by Thomas Carroll, Esq.'

She read no further, but stood and stared at
the name. That was the man of whose kindness
and generosity Baretti had spoken to Tito,

and lie was the stupid innocent whom Mark
had broil o-ht to Tito's chambers on his hist visit
there. There were not likely to be two
Thomas Carroll who were composers, and
she had heard the one she knew of pLay
superbly, and had heard all about him from
Baretti. It was perfectly clear that this was
Mark's cousin, and his printed name hit her
almost as Mark's own would have done.

Whilst she stood looking at the placard
somebody touched her in passing, and she om
turning round saw Tom Carroll with his hat
raised in apology. The placard was at the
main entrance to the theatre.

She saw that at first sight he did not recognise
her, but she called up as much of a
smile as she could, and held out her hand.

Good day, Mistare Carroll.'

Tom was chivalrous, and, in some ways,
weak-hearted. He could not resist the proffered
hand, though he took it reluctantly. Some

men might have thought the woman's recognition
insolent, but he was not amongst them.

Can you speak a word to me ? ' she asked,
holding his hand.

Two or three people in the street turned to
look at them. The painted woman, with her
gorgeous finery all faded and dirty and threadbare,
holding the young swell's hand in broad
daylight, and looking at him with appealing
eyes — the young swell shamefaced at the recognition
— the story was plain to anybody who
saw the picture.

Come inside,' said Tom, waving his freehand
towards the entrance to the theatre.

Fashionable people do occasionally walk
eastward along the Strand, and Lording, who
made no pretence of being fashionable, passed
on the other side at that moment. He naturally
looked over at the theatre at which Tom's
opera was running, and he saw in the doorway
what was to be seen. It looked for all the

world as if Tom had been seized by the
woman, and were drawing her indoors to
escape observation. Lording walked on and
tried to think no more about it, but it rankled
in his mind.

What can I do for you ? ' Tom asked the
Signora, when they were once behind the
swinging-doors.

She had scarcely meant to appeal to him at
all, but her own case was desperate, and perhaps
he could give her a chance.

I have lose my latest place,' she answered.
I have nothing to do three months. I am
quite poor. Will you let me sing in your
opera to earn a littel money ? You shave hear
me sing.'

I am sorry,' Tom began, and he saw that
the woman's face fell woefully. The eager,
beseeching light faded from her eyes, and the
young man had already noticed how fallen
away from her old state she was. ' I'm afraid

there's no vacancy.' He was losing money
every day, and drawing nearer and nearer to
the great gulf of poverty. The opera was
running at a heavy loss, though to the uninitiated
it looked like a success ; and it was
only being allowed to run at all lest its immediate
withdrawal should blight his future chances
with the managerial world. He could ill afford
to offer an asylum to anybody just now, and
he disliked this woman and had a prejudice
against her, a prejudice sufficiently justifiable
and reasonable. ' I am very sorry,' he said
again.

Xow the Signora had never had to stoop to
sue before. Only that very morning her landlady
had refused longer to harbour her, and in
her pride and anger she had disdained to plead
for a day's reprieve. There is something in
the confession of suffering which seems to
render it for the moment less bearable, and her
own words, ' I am quite poor,' meant so much

for her, and touched her with such a spasm of
pity for herself that at this refusal she began to
cry.

If I can help you in any other way,' said
Tom, drawing out that too ready purse of his.

'No, no, no,' she cried, waving her hand
af]jainst it. ' I will work if I can.' Her English
carried her no further. Her emotion tied her
tongue.

Come this way,' said the yielding composer.
' I'll see if we can find room for you.'
She followed him, drying her eyes and striving
to subdue herself to quiet. She despised herself
for yielding so, and rebelled against the
fortune which had driven her to this appeal.
But she was starving, and that for a healthy
woman is not a slight thing, and she had a
reason for keeping alive as long as she could.
Her physical hunger for food was not much
stronger than the hunger her heart felt for
revenge. How the revenge was ever to come

about she could not guess, but if she could
compass it, she would have it, by hook or
crook, and at whatever sacrifice.

Wait here, if you please,' said Tom, offering
her a chair in a room opening off the
auditorium. She took a seat and composed
herself, and then, sighting a looking-glass, went
to it and arranged her tawdry ribbons to the
best advantage, and wiped the smeary paint
from her eyelids as well as she could, whilst
Tom went in search of the manager and found
him.

Can we make room for another soprano,
Bethesda ? ' he began. ' I know we don't
want one, but another wont matter much.'

That is for your consideration, sir,' replied
Bethesda. 'The expenses are already
heavy.'

I know,' said Tom, taking off his hat to
rub his hair, and staring at Bethesda with a
vexed countenance. ' I know. But this is a

woman who — Hang it all ! We can make
room, I suppose ? '

Certainly, sir, certainly, if you wish it,'
said the manager. He knew nothing of Tom's
concerns. When he had heard the Moores
speak of him it had been in connection with
that dairy business, and he had been represented
as a man of wealth and as having a
wealthy father. Mrs. Moore's view of the
elder Carroll's possessions was exaggerated,
and Bethesda had caught it. And besides, a
poor man could scarcely afford such a whim
as to take a theatre for the performance of an
opera which no business-like manager would
look at. Tom's work was in one respect like
Shakespeare's, the smallest part needed an
artist to play it, and his stage was full. Busi-
ness-like managers are not fond of pieces in
which there are many people to play leading
parts. In Tom's day one star and a bundle of
sticks did for most of the London houses.

Well, you'd better see to her,' said Tom ;
I don't want to be bothered with her again.'
Mr. Bethesda looked vaguely sympathetic.
She's in want of money, I know, and when
you've agreed on the terms you'd better give
her a fortnight's salary in advance, or something
of that sort.'

'Very good, sir,' returned Mr. Bethesda,
and Tom sat down whilst the manager went to
confer with Caterina. When Bethesda, returning,
announced her engagement and departure,
he left the house and went about the business
her appeal had interrupted. His own extravagances
began to make him discontented with
himself, and he knew that he was sinking fast
enough without them. And yet how could he
have denied the miserable woman when he
saw her tears and all the signs of poverty she
bore? Nothing short of the practical experience
of a relieving officer could have
hardened his heart, or closed his hand whilst

there was anything to give in it. Yet his
charities began to Avorry him, as Httle sins
worry a tender conscience, and there were
moments when the financial outlook was almost
desperate.

He was not going quite madly with his
opera, and he and Baretti had talked over the
question of its continuance pretty thoroughly.
His plan was to run it as long as he dared, and
in the meanwhile to set to work at a second,
which upon completion should be produced on
another lessee's responsibility. All the critics
were in his favour, and after this success of
his, he would be treated with more consideration
than he had been. He was a good deal
mixed with theatrical people now, and everybody
was extremely amiable with him. Men
who knew about stage affairs were cognisant
of his real position at the Garrick, though he
never guessed it, and amongst them were some
who were willing to pick up a few of the

VOL. II. K

crumbs which fell from the rich man's table.
]Not a few envied Bethesda, and that good man
spoke of his patron as a sort of Croesus. A
moneyed amateur is likely to be popular in
theatrical circles, and Tom's amiability, his
goodness of heart, his ready sympathy and
open hand, made him more than a common
favourite. When he remembered how friendly
everybody was in this new world, he forgot the
rapid wasting of his little fortune, and with
everybody's good word secured beforehand his
future triumphs looked certain. Cousin Mark
would have known better, for a man who encounters
every other man as a pretender will
be right sometimes.

Talking of cousin Mark — the new heir to
Trench House found Trench House a little
dull, and the keenest sense of humour in the
world, backed by the most relishing sense of
triumph, could not stave off a feeling of occasional
weariness in the society of Mr. Carroll.

It was a great relief to Mark, therefore, when
his uncle one day suggested that a week or
two in town niio-jit be a change for him. He
threw a certain graceful air of reluctance into
the little speech in which he accepted the holiday,
and he executed a dance in the privacy of
his bedchamber at the prospect of liberty.
There was certain legal business to be done in
town, and Mark's professional knowledge
would be useful in it, so thought Mr. Carroll.
Mark fancied he could trust his professional
knowledge to drag out the proposed fortnight
into a month, and he set out in subdued high
spirits. From the first day of his adoption of
this admirable nephew, Mr. Carroll had bestowed
an allowance upon him, and until now
Mark had had no chance to spend a penny. Asa
consequence he was better provided than he
had ever been in his life before, and since he
had been really hard-up in his time, the possession
of money ajQTorded him a joy which is out
K 2

of the reach of a man who has never felt
poverty. Mark had given np his chambers,
and the meagre furniture had been sold at a
variation, so that now he went to a Jermyn
Street hotel and bestowed himself comfortably.


The London papers appeared daily on Mr.
Carroll's breakfast table, and Mark knew all
about Tom's opera and its success. He had
seen the advertisements, and had read the criticisms,
and he had little doubt that his uncle had
done the same, though Tom's name was never
mentioned between them. Mark had no objection
to his cousin's well-doing so long as it did
not interfere with his own, and, as a matter of
fact, the more Tom throve the less likely was
his father to be stirred by any sentiment of
pity, and the less likely was Tom to be a tax
upon his cousin.

I never cared much for opera,' said Mark
to himself 'But the papers say that the

ballet is a good thing. I'll go and have a look
at it.'

So a night or two after his arrival in town
Mark made one of a fairly filled house to hear
Godiva.' For a wonder he was in time for
the opening chorus, and there in the centre of
the stage semicircle was the Signora Caterina.
Mr. Bethesda had not been slow to observe
the young woman's personal advantages, and
her place was prominent. It was undeniable
that she helped the stage picture, whilst as a
chorus singer she was useful.

Tom,' said Mark, inwardly, ' you are indiscreet.
You make that Christian duty of
mine almost too easy.'

Mark seemed pretty safe in the saddle by
this time, but he thought the girths might bear
a little tightening.

He cared little for the opera, and fell to
reading the bill of the play.

Eh ? ' he thought suddenly. ' Bethesda ?

Mr. Anthony Bethesda ? How many Anthony
Bethesda are there in the world ? Not many
I should say. ^' Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr.
Anthony Bethesda." Curious.'

The ballet came on just then — a quaint old
English morris-dance, not at all to the young
man's taste. He preferred the can-can, though
even that had lost its novelty ; and after watching
the figures on the stage for an uninterested five
minutes he took his overcoat from the attendant
and strolled into the vestibule of the house.

Bethesda,' he was thinking still. ' Not at
all a common name. The man himself.' Mr.
Bethesda in person in the vestibule. ' I should
know that Christian smile amongst a thousand.
How d'ye do, Bethesda ? '

How do you do, sir .^ ' said Mr. Bethesda,
with a somewhat blank expression.

How's the little business over the water,
Bethesda ? ' asked Mark, jauntily. ' And the
brethren ? How are the brethren ? '

For God's sake ' said Betliesda, in a

whisper. Mark laughed.

All right,' he said lightly. ' Where can
we go and be quiet for a minute or two ? I
want to speak to you.'

Come into my room, sir,' said Mr. Bethesda,
and Mark followed his lead.

What brings you here, old man ^ ' he
asked, familiarly. Mr. Bethesda had taken the
precaution to lock the door, and he looked
frightened as he faced his visitor. ' Made
your pile, eh ? Is the new dodge paying ? '

Well, I can't say it is, sir,' returned
Bethesda, whose plump and roseate countenance
looked almost meagre on a sudden. 'I'm as
poor as Job, I am indeed. I am only a salaried
servant here.'

Mark had taken a seat upon the table, and
there dangled his legs at ease, looking at the
manager with a waggish eye of mastery. At
this declaration he stretched out his walking

cane and tapped a line in the play bill on the
door.

Sole lessee, Bethesda. Sole lessee. There
it is in black and white.'

A mere form, sir, I assure you. I'm as
poor as Job. I have nothing but my salary to
depend upon.'

Pooh ! ' said Mark. ' I have inherited a
large fortune, Bethesda, and I don't want to
blackmail you any more. Come, you can
trust me. If the house isn't yours, whose is it ? '

It is taken in my name, sir, but as a matter
of fact it's rented by a person of the name of
Carroll, who took it to bring out his own
opera.'

A person of the name of Carroll, eh ? '
said Mark, smilingly. 'He seems to have
mounted it pretty well. Cost a fairish penny,
didn't it, Bethesda ? '

It is very richly mounted,' said Mr. Bethesda,
who seemed ill at ease.

Is it paying ? '

No,' said the manager, shaking his head
mournfully. 'Losing. At least a hundred
and fifty pounds a week.'

Bad for the person of the name of Carroll,
eh ? ' asked Mark.

'Wealthy men have whims, sir,' returned
Bethesda. ' He can afford it.'

Ah ! ' said Mark, who wore throughout
this interview a curious air of enjoyment, which
contrasted strongly with the other's evident
discomfort. ' That makes a difference, doesn't
it? And how is the little business over the
water ? '

Gone to pieces,' said Bethesda mournfully.
The biggest coup I ever went for was the
last, and it smashed me. It was beautifully
done, beautifully, and somebody must have
turned informer. There were seven boilers,'
sinking his voice to a whisper, and looking
round, as if he feared another listener, ' seven

boilers laid on the quay for live or six weeks
for everybody to get used to the look of them.
Then they were got aboard and sent down for
repair.'

Sent down ? ' said Mark. ' Sent down
where ? '

'Down North generally,' returned Bethesda,
with a feeble smile. ' The departure was admirably
timed, sir, and the boilers were landed
at Cardiff, made over to a safe hand there.
They nailed him, however, and it burst both of
us. I knew I could rely upon him, and he
was honourable to the end. Five years is a
light sentence, of course, but some men would
have turned Queen's Evidence.'

What was it ? ' asked Mark, smilingly.

Mr. Bethesda went through a little pantomime
expressive of the smoking of a cigar:, and
blew an imaginary whiff.

'The best Havana to be had for love or
money. The low trade never paid.'

I suppose not. And that burst you, did
it?'

Like a bubble, sir returned Mr. Bethesda.
I suppose that altogether I wasn't less than
^-^^ thousand pounds out of pocket by it. But
the problem of long interest and short risk has
never been satisfactorily solved, and never will
be. If you could rely upon everybody's honesty
now.'

It's a pity you can't do that, Bethesda,
isn't it? said Mark, smilingly. 'And so the
person by the name of Carroll is losing a hundred
and fifty pounds a week, is he ? By the
way, Bethesda, who's that handsome foreign-looking
woman in the chorus ? '

Signora Caterina, sir ? ' asked Bethesda,
with a look of relief. ' Is that the lady you
mean ? '

She stands back in the centre of the stage
in the first chorus. I thought her rather handsome.
Actio is she ? '

That is Signora Caterina,' said Mr. Bethesda.
'Mr. Carroll introduced her here, sir.
I don't know anything about her.'

A private affair of Mr. Carroll's, perhaps ? '
asked Mark.

'Well, no, sir, I don't think so. It may-have
been in the past, but it isn't now, I'm
certain. No. That isn't his line, I should say,
sir. I confess that at first I thought it might
be, for he asked me to get the prettiest girls I
could, but he's never so much as looked at one
of them.'

'How did he come to bring the lady
here ? '

I haven't a notion, really,' replied Bethesda.
' She was awfully shabby — awfully
shabby when she came. He gave her a fortnight's
wages in advance.'

Mark nodded smilingly, and looked as if
about to put another question, when a knock
came to the door, and a second later the handle

was tried. Bethesda ran to the door and
unlocked it.

Hill ! ' cried Tom Carroll, entering, and
looking with amazement from one to the other.
Why, Mark, what brings you here ? '

I ran up to town to see you,' said Mark,
with perfect self-possession. ' I met Bethesda
in the vestibule, and he and I have been having
a little talk together. We are old acquaintances.
Bethesda is the only client I ever had.'

'And how are you?' cried Tom, shaking
hands heartily. It may seem 'singular, but he
had no malice for Mark. Such a supposition
would have seemed singular indeed to Mark
himself. He had thought the matter over pretty
often, and he admitted that if their fortunes had
been reversed, he would have poisoned Tom
if that could have been managed safely. Anybody
would, said Mark. It came natural.

He answered Tom's salute with perfect
responsiveness.

You'd better see to that latch, by the
way, Bethesda,' said he, with a laugh. * If
Mr. Carroll had caught you locked in with
one of those pretty girls you have here, he
wouldn't believe you'd done it because the
latch wouldn't act, and you only wanted to
keep the wind out.'

What's the matter with the latch ? ' asked
Tom, trying the handle of the door. ' It's all
right now.'

It wasn't a minute ago,' said Mark, easily.

Who would have thought of your knowing
Bethesda,' said Tom, brightly. ' What a
little world it is, after all ! Why, Bethesda
it was only yesterday that you told me you
had never met anybody of the name of Carroll,
and you and my cousin Mark are closeted here
like old chums.'

Mr. Bethesda gave an odd little look at
Mark Carroll.

I had forgotten the gentleman, sir,' he

answered, ' until he did me the honour of reminding
me of our old connection this evening,
sir.'

Come and have a talk, Tom,' said Mark,
thrusting an arm through his cousin's. ' Goodnight,
Bethesda.'

Good night, sir,' said Bethesda, and stood
staring at the doorway through which the two
had passed. ' He's a beautiful liar,' he said, a
minute later, as he closed the door. 'Very
ready and natural. Carroll ? Mark Carroll ?
Now what did lie want an alas for F '

CHAPTEE XVIII.

Tom felt, as he and his cousin walked together
after leaving the theatre, that Mark's manner
had never seemed half so agreeable or befitting.
He did not think this, but he felt it warmly.
There was no shyness about Mark, as there
would have been about some men in the circumstances,
and there was no pretence of there
being nothing the matter.

Tom,' said Mark, ' I want to have a serious
talk with you. I want to ask you to answer
one question I shall put to you.'

I will if I can,' said Tom, not guessing what
the question might be.

Then,' began Mark, stopping short in the
street and facing his cousin with a serious brow,

is there anything between yourself and your
father which is not known to me ? Anything
more than that row at the Megatherium ? '

Nothing that I know of,' Tom answered.
Why ? '

I am obliged to move slowly,' said Mark,
taking his cousin's arm again, and walking with
thoughtful eyes upon the pavement. ' I dare
not appeal to him too often, but I want to see
you reconciled, and I mention you when I dare.
But lately he has dropped a hint or two of your
having offended him in other ways.'

In what other ways ? ' asked Tom, a little
angrily.

Well, you see,' said Mark, musingly, ' he
doesn't speak straight out, and I don't want to
make him angry by questioning ; but so far as
I can gather, he has a notion that you've been
living in rather an immoral way up here.'

Who ? ' cried Tom, coming to a standstill,
a? How?'

VOL II. L

My dear fellow,' said Mark, in a propitiatory
way, ' don't fly out at me. I am only trying
to get at the bottom of the thing. Don't be
offended if I go on. Has there ever been or is
there now any entanglement between you
and ? Come, Tom, I'm not a Joseph myself,
and I never professed to be. Is there a
lady in the case at all, or has there been ? '

You might have answered any charge of
that sort,' returned Tom, ' out of your knowledge
of me.'

If there is such a charge, there is no truth
in it ? '

Not an atom,' said Tom, quietly enough.

Have you made an enemy ? ' asked Mark.
^ Is there anybody with a grudge against you ? '

Not a soul I know of.'

Tom,' said Mark, suddenly, after a pause,
don't you think you ought to write to the
governor and make some approach to him ?
Don't answer yet. Don't you think you might

make allowance for Iii, and even humiliate
yourself a little for his sake ? '

Mark,' said Tom, in answer, in a voice
which showed how moved he was, 'if my father
had been a poor man I would have gone to him
next day, and would have told him that I had
not done well in risking his peace of mind to save
Miss Moore an inconvenience. But he is a rich
man, Mark, and he was as much in the wrong
as I was. If he had not refused to believe me,
I would have proved my case, since he demanded
it. He had a right to demand it, but
he had no right to think me a liar. That is a
right I never yet gave to any man.'

Without an advance from you,' said Mark,
a reconciliation does not look hopeful. He is
beginning to think all manner of evil things
about you.'

It's a great pity,' said Tom with a sigh,
but it can't be helped.' He thought of the
difference the last few months had made in his
L 2

position and prospects, and his heart sank at it ;
but there came the natural revulsion of defiance,
and this extended itself to his father. ' He
must do what he will and think what he will.
I must fight my own way in the world. I
should be happy in his good opinion ; but,
much as I value it, I prefer my own, and I
will not lose that at least.'
.Mark sighed audibly.

There's a pair of you,' he said. ' Irreconcilable
both.' To this his cousin returned no
answer, and they walked on quietly for a hundred
yards or so. ' Tom,' began Mark again, ' I
give you my word of honour that I feel my own
position keenly. Perhaps T am a bit cowardly
about myself for one thing. You know how
helpless I am in the world. I'm like a child.
I never earned a penny in my life.'

You had a client once,' said Tom.

Yes,' said Mark, fortunately recalling his
statement about Bethesda. ' I earned a ten-pound

note once ; but it came to the same
thing — I never got it. I am dependent on your
lather, and since my own governor died, I always
have been. Well, you know, you and I have
both looked forward to his doing something forme
finally, and now he's in such a mood that if
I pushed your case too far he'd send me packing
after you, and found a hospital. Now that
would be good neither for me nor you, and it
wouldn't be comfortable for him. And all the
time I am in a stile position. I am ill thought
of in many quarters where I would rather
stand well, because people say what a cold-blooded
thing it is for a fellow to accept a
position which holds father and son apart. They
don't know what I am trying to do, and would
hardly believe me if I told them. Now, can't
you make me your mediator ? Can't I say we
met, and that you spoke kindly of him and all
that sort of thing, and expressed your sorrow
for having troubled him ? '

I can do nothing, and say nothing that
does not lay me open to suspicion,' answered
Tom. ' You may tell him what I have said
already, if you like. Does he seem to feel the
thing much, Mark ? '

'He doesn't show a great deal,' Mark
answered, ' but then you know his way.'

Yes, Tom admitted, he knew his father's
way. The future was beginning to look blank
to Tom ; his money failure in connection with
the opera tormented him, and his ideas seemed
to have run dry, so that he made no progress to
speak of with opera number two. His troubles
were closing fast upon him, and all the lesser
troubles he endured drove him towards one
much greater. His love affair looked especially
hopeless, and that was the one thing he could
least endure not to hope about. It seemed as
if to take his hope of that were to take all, and
the more he thought of it the less possible it
seemed to marry and become a pensioner on

Lording's bounty. It is probable enough that,
like many other people, he made most of his
own troubles for himself, but home-made troubles
are no more savoury than those of foreign manufacture,
and the lad's mild gorge rose at them.

I say,' quoth Mark, rather suddenly, ' is
that your own speculation, Tom — that theatre?'

Yes,' said Tom, with no great sprightliness
of tone.

Is it paying ? '

Losing fast.'

Shall you drop it ? '

I dare not — at least not just yet.'

It seems to me, Tom, that unless your
governor relents, you are in a bad way.'

A very bad way indeed, Mark ; but not
so bad a way that it may not be mended.'

'You must let me say something to. your
father. Give me a message to him.'

'No. You are a good fellow, Mark, but
that affair must take its course. I can't beg

for a right as a favour. I didn't deserve to
be thrown over, and I can't ask to be taken
back again.'

This talk brought them to Tom's door.
Mark declined to enter just then.

Think it over, Tom. I've said what I
wanted to say. Think it over. I'll call tomorrow
at mid-day, if that will suit you. Goodnight,
old man.'

He wrung Tom's hand hard and walked
away hurriedly.

He's a good fellow, is Mark,' said Tom to
himself, standing on the doorstep and looking
after his cousin's retreating figure. ' A good
fellow.'

An odd thing,' said Mark, falling into a
saunter as he turned the corner into that street
in which he had first met the charming Signora.
'A curious thing, how being in the fashion
makes one fond of the fashion. Since I took
to having respectable motives it is wonderful to

notice flint a hold they've taken on nie. I
shall eiid in believing myself like the rest of
them. We're poor creatures — all frail alike,'
concluded Mark, with a laugh to himself. ' All
frail alike.'

As he walked down the street thinking, he
passed a solitary passenger, who looked keenly
at him and quickened his step a little, as if to
keep pace with him for a moment and make
sure of him. This solitary passenger was
Signor Malfi.

You are still in London, my friend,* said
the Signor silently, when he was sure of him.
Let me see where you live.'

He followed, but not for any great distance,
for at the end of the street a voice he knew
hailed Mark Carroll by name, and the Signor
crossed the street in the darkness to avoid his
countryman, Baretti.

You are back in London ? ' said Baretti.
Have you seen your cousin .^ '

'I have just left him,' returned Mark.
You have some influence with him. Beg him
to follow my advice. It is the only way to a
reconciliation with his father.'

What is your advice .^ ' asked Baretti.

That he should seek the reconciliation
returned Mark. ' That he should make the
first advances.'

'Do you think the advances likely to be
accepted ? ' asked Baretti.

I think it well worth while to try. I've
told Tom so, but he's pig-headed.'

I am anxious to serve him if I can,' said
the painter. ' Shall I walk with you whilst
you tell me what to do ? '

Mark accepted this offer, and the two went
on together arm in arm. Signor Malfi, who had
been standing in the darkness fifty yards
farther down the street, walked leisurely until
they passed him, and then followed.

You have met my uncle and have seen

enough of bim to know how unlikely it is that
any advance should come from him. He is a
man of prodigious firmness — not to say obstinacy
but one of the kindest-hearted men in the
world. Tom must pocket his pride and make
submission.' Baretti nodded here and there as
Mark talked, and the disinterested cousin grew
warm with his theme.

'Take no notice of the thing now,' said
Baretti, breaking in on the current of Mark's
speech. ' But do you know why you are being
followed ? '

Followed ? ' asked Mark, quietly. ' What
do you mean ? Why should I be followed.'

There is a friend of mine behind us,' said
the painter, ' who has a grievance against you.
He was behind you when I met you, but
thinking that I did not see him, he crossed
the road and waited. Now he is coming on
again.'

A friend of yours who has a grudge

against me ? ' asked Mark. ' And who may
that be?'

Count twenty paces beyond the next
lamp,' said Baretti. ' Then turn, and you will
have him in the light.'

So said, so done. Mark knew well enough
of whom Baretti spoke, and was not surprised
at being followed, though the sensation he experienced
was far from being comfortable. He
and Baretti wheeled round suddenly at the
point agreed upon, and Signor Malfi came to a
dead stop for a second or so, and then walked
on towards them. Mark stood on the alert,
waiting for what might happen. He had not
long to wait, for Malfi cut right at his face with
the walking-cane he carried. Mark warded the
blow with his own cane, but before he could
return it, Baretti had got in between them,
and for a minute or two the painter and the
singer made a great hubbub with expostulation
on the one side and execration on the other.

Mark kept quiet and watched, cool and wary.
To have a quarrel with Signor Malfi would not
suit him at all, for he was severely moral at
Trend 1 House, and enjoyed a reputation for
another and more genial sort of morality — unstarched,
but unmatched — in its neighbourhood
; and the revelations which might come
of a fracas with the popular tenor would
militate against his reputation. On the other
side, Mal cared little for the prospect of a bout
at fisticuffs, and repented his flush of passion
already. So with both unwilling to fight, the
promised battle was postponed, but the assailant
cursed from behind Baretti with Italian fluency,
aud let out all the story. This was, of course,
unpleasant for Mark, who had tried to make
something of a cat's paw of his cousin in this
matter, and who knew that the story would go
from Baretti to Tom. Even such a fool as
Tom might scarcely like to have been used asa
blind in such an affair, and for the present it

was 'part of Mark's plan that Tom should think
Well of him.

'I have no appetite for a street brawl,' said
Mark, in English, ' and the man is mad with
groundless jealousy.'

-•'' What does he say?' cried Malfi. with an
energetic pretence of a desire to get past
Baretti. Baretti, still keeping between him
and Mark, translated, and the singer broke outwith
a new tirade. One foot-passenger paused
long enough to hear all three speaking Italian,
and, being in his own way a humorist, cried
Go it, Frenchy ! ' in a highly-exhilarated way.

We shall have a crowd here in a moment,'
said Mark, in an undertone, to Baretti. ' I
shall walk on until I meet a policeman, and if
your friend follows me I shall give him in
charge.'

So saying, he turned his back upon the
two, and marched along, indifferent enough to
outer seeming, but carrying his heart in his ears.

'You call yourself my friend,' said Malfi,
hotly, ' and you consort with that dog.'

I consort with that dog for a purpose,'
said Baretti, ' and I still call myself yoiu- Mend.
I must not lose him now. Let me follow him.
Come to me tomorrow. What can you gain
by a disturbance in the streets ? I may help
you to right your wrong in a way you do not
dream of. Come to me tomorrow.'

Malfi made no answer, but he allowed
Baretti to follow Mark, and only stood still to
watch the two retreating figures until the night
swallowed both of them. Then he shook his stick
in the air, spat on the pavement, and went his
way. The painter came up with Mark at a run,
and Mark, having assured himself that it was
Baretti, and not Malfi, who pursued him, sauntered
slowly to be the more readily overtaken.

Thank you,' he said, when Baretti came
alongside, ' I am very much obliged. About
Tom, Sign or Baretti ; mil you uy and persuade

him to make some approaches to his
father?'

I will advise him for the best,' said Bare ti.
'It is a pity that so excellent a son and so
kind a father should be divorced from each
other.'

Isn't it ? ' said Mark, with an assent almost
tender in its fervour.

It is a pity, too,' observed Baretti, ' that
my poor friend Malfi should be divided from his
wife by so groundless a suspicion. So far as
you are concerned she is innocent ? '

'The man's a madman, pure and simple,'
said Mark, tranquilly. 'I think the woman
took a fancy to me, but that wasn't my fault.
Ask my cousin Tom. He'll tell you that I
asked him to sit out an Italian lesson I was
giving her, to prevent her from making eyes at
me.' It was not easy to suspect so perfect a
tactician.

This is not the first I have heard of it,'

said Baretti, who also knew how to be candid.
Malfi told me the whole story. He said then
what he repeated to^iiight, that he had tracked
her to your chambers.'

She was fool enough to come there,' Mark
returned. 'That was not my affair either.
Whilst she was there Malfi turned up, and I
hid her. Alien he had gone away, I told her
I couldn't stand that sort of nonsense, and that
if it occurred again, I should have to take unpleasant
measures. You read the English poets,
Mr. Baretti, and you remember the line '' Hell
has no fury Hke a woman scorned." The
beautiful Signora Malfi is the best illustration
of that statement I have yet encountered. I'm
not a Joseph myself,' said Mark, for the second
time that day. ' But in this case I'm a martyr.'

Mark's candour was his best weapon, but
he could not quite kill Baretti's doubts of him.

You disliked the woman ? ' the painter
asked. ' That is why you wished your cousin

VOL. II. M

to go with you when you gave her the lesson
you speak of ? '

Well, not exactly that,' said Mark, with a
light-hearted laugh. 'But the game didn't
seem worth the candle, and besides that, Malfi
was a friend in a sort of a way, and there is
honour, you know, even amongst gentlemen.'

Baretti walked thoughtfully on and said
nothing. The man made no pretence to be
better than he was, and his easy cynicism made
him ten times more readily believable than any
moral profession could have done. And yet
Baretti was not easy in his mind about him,
and to doubt him on one point was to doubt
him on all. Half unconsciously he did doubt
him on all points, and he began to have vague
ideas that it was here if ever that his chance
of being useful to Tom Carroll would arise.
As if there were not real dragons enough about
his friend's path already, he was in the mood
to create fancy dragons ibr the pleasure of

killing them, and circumstances had given
Mark so much influence over his cousin's life
that Baretti was nine-tenths jealous of him.
Now that he had come to think of it, he
was persuaded that he had never heartily
liked Mark Carroll from the first, and a spice
of that discontent which Mark confessed
would have been natural in Tom began to
flavour Baretti's fancies. What guarantee
in the world was there that Mark should
play fair with Tom? And what would the
world think fairer play than to let things
take their course ? But if Mark allowed events
to run on unguided it was likely that he and
not Tom would inherit the Trench House
estates. It began to be unbelievable, as Baretti
considered these things, that any man would
take the trouble to shake his own standing-ground
unless he had a very strong reason for
it — some passion of honour, or gratitude, or
love. Now, not to be unduly suspicious, it did

M 2

not seem likely that Mark Carroll was a man
to nurse so fine a sense of honour as his present
pretensions claimed for him, and, so far as the
painter knew, he had no great call either to
love or to gratitude.

Baretti had spoken all these half-proved
fancies about Mark in his last words to Malfi,
when he had said that he might help to right his
countryman's wrongs in a way the other did
not dream of. If Mark were pretending to
serve Tom's interest while he played against
him, there were not many revenges to which
Baretti would not have thought it dignified to
stoop.

You are naturally anxious about your
cousin,' he said at last, 'and I am naturally
anxious about my countryman. Whilst you
try to reconcile father and son, I must try to
reconcile husband and wife. Do you know that
the lady is singing in your cousin's opera ? '

Yes,' said Mark, since there was nothing

to be got by ignorance. ' I saw her there this

evening.

Did you speak to her ? '

No. I only saw her on the stage. Why
the deuce should I speak to her ? '

People are very stupid,' said Baretti, leaving
Mark's query unanswered. ' They quarrel
without cause, and they give themselves and
their friends a great deal of needless trouble.
I will speak to your cousin, Mr. Carroll, and I
will do my best for him. Good night.'

^ Good night,' said Mark, in a voice which
responded sympathetically to the weariness in
Baretti's. ' It's a poor world, Mr. Baretti, and
one's best resource is not to care for it very
much.' He gripped the Italian's hand, said
Good night ' again, and walked towards his
hotel. That unexpected disturbance with Malfi
had been got out of well enough, and Mark
was grateful to his own good fortune. But to
have that sort of thing happening at odd times

would be unpleasant, if at last the coward's
passion did not make him dangerous. Mark
was certain of Malfi's cowardice, but counted
on no immunity from danger on that score ; for
he had had opportunities of studying the dirty
side of human nature in the assize courts, and
ho knew of what base metal homicides are
made.

But, apart from fears so tragic — and Mark
was no coward — to have a man of that sort
about, ready at any time to knock one's respectability
to pieces was eminently undesirable,
and yet to be rid of him seemed impossible.
He could be dodged and evaded at times, no
doubt, but then there was no certainty as to
the time or place of his appearance.

Mark's cogitation on this matter bore fruit.
It is noticeable that people out of one country
neighbourhood often use the same town hotel,
and would think it rather an unfitting thing to
go to any other. It happened that Mark

met in the Jermyu Street house taro country
youngsters with whom he lead acquaintance at
Overhill, and in his OAvn bright, open-hearted
way he fell talking about his cousin Tom. Of
course all the county knew of the quarrel
between father and sod, and there was no
breach of family confidence in speaking of it.

He's as obstinate,' said Mark, good-humoured,
' as a donkey, and he won't even ask his
governor to come round. He's going the pace,
too, up here, I can tell you. He's a thundering
clever fellow, mind you, and you should go and
hear that opera of his — the music's magnificent.
But,' continued Mark, with the laugh of a man
who makes allowances, ' he has kicked over the
traces fairly now, and everybody who knows
his game is a little sorry for it. They say
Byron kept a harem, but it wasn't in London,
and he didn't hire a stage to show his beautiful
Circassians to the British public. Of course,
that sort of thing is no man's business but his

own, but I'm very sorry for it. Don't you
fellows breathe a word of this down at home.
You won't, will you ? It would ruin him with
the old fellow for ever and ever.'

Of course, the young men promised the
most profound discretion.

He got me into a bit of a mess a night or
two ago,' said Mark, laughing genially. ' There's
an Italian fellow, a tenor at the opera — Tom's
a good deal mixed up with the opera people —
and this fellow's wife took a fancy to Tom, and
made a dead set at him. She's singing in
Godiva " now, and has run away from her
husband and attached herself to my charming
cousin's fortunes. It's a bit awkward for me,
for the operatic tenor had me pointed out as
the man, and came at me with a thick stick.
I don't suppose that Tom took any share in
that business. He wouldn't let another fellow
into a scrape of that kind knowingly But if
Tom's wild oat harvest answers to his sowing,

I can prophesy a devil of a crop for him.
Now, for heaven's sake, don't you fellows speak
a word of this at home. I know I can trust
your honour, or I wouldn't have spoken.'

They promised faithfully, and went away to
trust other people's honour, as Mark knew they
would.

CHAPTEE XIX.

Malfi did not call upon Baretti on the morrow.
Perhaps he thought little of his countryman's
promise of vengeance, and perhaps he was
somewhat ashamed of his own ignominious
bluster. But when he did call, the artist had
something to say which interested him. Mark
Carroll was a very clever young man, beyond
a doubt, but even he was unable to count
beforehand upon everything. He had naturally
counted on his latest story reaching Lording's
ears in one form or another, but he had not
counted on the mode of Lording's reception of
it. It set the old boy off as a spark starts a
rocket, and he went at Tom to know the truth
or falsehood of it, without an hour's delay. He

found him in a dressing-gown, with a cigar in
his mouth, a glass of brandy and soda on the
table before him, and a disorderly litter of
musical manuscripts all about the room. Now
Lordincf could not tell of his own intuition that
Tom had been at work all night, and the lad's
worn aspect and the brandy and soda taken in
conjunction looked bad to the old fellow's
eyes.

Tom held out his hand, but, to his consternation,
Lording declined to take it, and set
himself firmly upon the hearth rug, with his hat
in one hand and his walking-stick in the other.

Tom Carroll,' said the old boy, ' I never
do anything by halves, and I won't shake hands
by halves. I won't condemn you unheard, and
you shall have your say fairly and fully.
What's the meaning of these scandals about
you and the women at your theatre ? '

What scandals, sir ? ' asked Tom.

All sorts of scandals, sir ! ' cried Lording.

Do you mean to say you don't know of
them ? '

I have never heard of any,' Tom returned.

'By gad, sir! ' said Lording, ' they say the
place is a harem, and that you're the sultan of
it. Orgies ! I don't know what all.'

Lao says so ? ' asked Tom, beginning to
look dangerous.

It's a matter of general talk,' said Lording.
'The county's ringing with it.'

The youngster heaved a great sigh and
threw his hands abroad.

So far as I know,' he replied, ' the house
is as orderly as any in London. I believe
it is.'

His momentary anger faded. He was out
of spirits, and broken with overwork and
anxieties and continuous heartache, and he
scarcely cared just then for anything.

You believe it is ? ' said Lording, half in
grief and half in rage. ' I don't want an answer

like that. What do you know about this?
Come, Tom, my lad, I've loved you like a son,
and we stand in such a position that I've a
right to ask you.'

The whole thing is a wicked invention,'
Tom answered, drearily. ' Though why anybody
should go about to invent a story of that
sort against me, I can't guess.'

Nor I either,' said Lording. ' Tom, you
must let me get to the bottom of this. I must
be able to contradict it, and I must be able to
trace it to its source.'

Will you pursue your inquiries unhampered
by me, sir?' asked Tom. 'Will you
make inquiries at the theatre, or cause inquiries
to be made ? I am a little tired of being suspected,
and lied about, and disbelieved. By
heaven ! ' he cried, suddenly, ' I would be
ashamed to ask a man of the truth or falsehood
of a lie so palpable if I had known him
a hundredth part as well as you know me.'

Tom,' said Lording, ' I am not to blame.
I have a duty to perform — and so have you,
for that matter. If these shameless charges
are made against you, you must fight them.
People are putting two and two together.
They say your father had fuller reasons for
throwing you over than were ever given to
anybody.'

My father behaved to me, sir,' said Tom,
coldly, ' as no father had a right to behave to
a son. All the rights are not on the father's
side, and all the duties on the son's. If people
are saying that, it is his business to contradict
it, not mine.'

Yes, yes, Tom,' said Lording ; ' your
business as well as his. You must avoid the
appearance of evil.'

Into what appearance of evil have I
fallen ? ' Tom demanded.

My lad,' said Lording, who exercised
wonderful patience, all things considered, ' you

fall into a terrible appearance of evil if you
refuse to contradict things like these

They will die of themselves,' said Tom.
I shall never die of them.'

Well,' said Lording, with something of an
effort, ' you'll tell me on your honour that there
isn't one word of truth in this scandal, and I'll
believe you against the world.'

Thank you,' said Tom. ' On my honour
as a gentleman there is not one word of truth
in it.'

Very well,' said Lording ; ' the libel's done
with — dead so far as I'm concerned. Now,
who invented it ? Who set it going ? Is there
anybody who has a grudge against you ? '

Tom shook his head. ' Not a soul I know of.'

You made a mistake before in refusing to
defend yourself,' said Lording, who was doing
his hardest to be loyal. ' You must track this
down, Tom. You must hunt it down. You
must clear yourself. And until you've done

that, Tom — I don't feel happy in saying it,
my lad — but until you've done it, I think you'd
better not '

I understand you,' said Tom, not without
a little bitterness.

Don't think me harsh, or unfriendly, Tom,'
said Lording, taking up the walking-stick and
hat which he had only just laid down. 'I
can't help it. I'm very sorry, indeed; very
sorry.'

You have your duty to do, sir, said the
youngster, as manfully as he could.

'And you have yours,' returned Lording.
Track the scandal down.'

Li the natural anger of his heart, Tom
made a rejoinder for which he was sorry many
a time afterwards.

I have opportunities,' he said* ' My friends
give me plenty of elbow-room.'

Tom Carroll,' said the old boy, with a
paler face, ' you have no right to say that sort

of thing to me. I'm not the man to charge
with giving a friend elbow-room when he's in
trouble. I have accepted your word, and I
believe this thing to be an abominable scandal.
But it lies on you to clear yourself. All the
help I can give you, you shall have ; but I
can't have a stain brought into the house my
daughter lives in. Clear yourself. You can
do it.'

How ? ' asked Tom, with unwonted passion.
' Where am I to bring my charge ?
Give me the name of the man who told you
the story ? '

The story's in the air,' said Lording. * It's
at every club in London, more or less. There's
scarcely a house in which it isn't talked about.'

And I am to fight this impalpable libel ?
Not I ! ' he cried, in a heat of anger and
despite. ' I will tell you this, sir — there never
was a man against whom this shameful charge
would have been less true. You tell me you

VOL. II. N

believe my word ; but you don't believe me.
You ask me to defend myself. I will defend
myself when I am charged, but not before.
How can I defend myself against the blackguards
who throw the mud of their own hearts
at me in the dark ? Defence ! What defence
has a man in such a case, except in the contempt
he feels for his assailants ? '

This speech was a little incoherent ; but
then righteous anger is just as likely to be
incoherent as unrighteous anger, and when
Tom let himself loose he began to feel well-nigh
mad with rage and grief. That he of
all men shoukl be charged with wallowing in
that hog-pen of sensual nastiness ! The thought
half choked him. One cruel and false estimate
of him had robbed him and his love, and now
a lie as wicked as was ever coined was circulating
from hand to hand with his figure stamped
on it as a beast's, to make him odious in all
good men's eyes.

If you have any pretensions to my daughter's
hand,' said Lording, 'your own hands
must be clean ; and they must not only be
clean, but men must know that they are clean.
You can go out and track the story if you like.
Almost anybody will tell it to you, or a part of
it. I'm only just and fair to my own child —
not cruel or unreasonable with you. Before
you come to us again set yourself straight
about this matter.'

We had better say goodbye at once, sir,'
Tom answered. ' There can be no service ni
delay.'

Very well,' said \\\q old fellow, sorrowfully.
He had no doubt that Tom was maligned,
or he tried to believe that he had none, and he
was grieved to the heart at the whole business.
But his soul revolted at the thought of Mary's
name being coupled with such a story, and he
could do no other than he had done. ' Clear
yourself and come to me again,' he said, at the

N 2

door, *and you'll find me what I've always
been.'

Thank you,' said Tom, coldly.

Tom,' said Lording, turning for a last
efibrt, ' this lofty way of yours brought about
the quarrel with your father. People who
know you will accept your word, perhaps ;
but your friends have a right to ask more of
you than a bare denial. You haven't the right
to grieve us all in this way.' He paused, but
received no answer. ' Think it over, my lad.'
said Lording, in a voice which began to be
untrustworthy, ' and you'll see things as I do.
Goodbye, my lad. There's no malice or disbelief
in my mind, but I can't help myself.
Goodbye, Tom.'

Good day, sir,' said Tom, as coldly as
before ; and Lording, with a wistful look, went
out.

Tom sat down at the table and began to
push about the disorderly manuscripts upon it,

but he could not distinguish one sheet from
another, and in a while he arose and walked
with irregular and disordered steps about the
room. The tears of rage and shame and misery-were
hot in his eyes, but he fought them back
aud would not yield to them.

Whilst he was still in this unhappy state,
Baretti came down in his velvet sacque, and
his gay cap and slippers. His face beamed,
and he entered the room with a fantastic step.

Carroll,' he began, ' I have an inspiration.
It is on canvas already. Come and look at it.*
Then he caught sight of Tom's wild face and
ran towards him. ' What is the matter ? You
are ill. What is it? Sit down, Carroll, sit
down.'

Damn the whole base world ! ' cried Tom,
flinging himself out of Baretii's hands. ' Curse
the foul-hearted, foul-mouthed hounds that
fill it ! '

'Carroll,' cried the painter, 'what is it?*

He had never seen his friend enraged before,
and the youngster's aspect, commonly so bland
and gentle, was frightfully altered now. His
voice was hoarse with passion, his face was
deadly pale and hard, and his eyes glared like
a madman's. He was nearer the boundary line
between madness and sanity at that moment
than any man can go with safety. He felt it,
and trembled for himself, and the tremor
saved him. He leashed himself by one tremendous
effort, and sat down in a quiet more
terrible than his momentary violence. Baretti,
alarmed by his aspect and the wildness of his
words, and fearing to disturb him anew, kept
silence for a time. Then he ventured once
more to lay a hand upon his friend's shoulder,
and said once more, in a voice as gentle as a
woman's, ' Carroll — my friend — dearest of my
friends — what is it ? '

Tom dropped his face into his hands, and a
scalding tear or two had way in spite of him.

He looked up with the moisture still glistening
in his wild eyes.

Go now, Baretti,' he said, with a great
effort. ' Come in half an hour. I can't talk
now.' He waved Baretti away with a gesture
of such mingled entreaty and command that
the painter sneeringly retired, and went slowly
up the stairs to his own room. Tom could
hear Mm pacing to and fro, and, sore and bitter
as he was, he found some comfort in his friend's
nearness, and the certainty of his sympathy.
In a minute or two at the most he began to
recover his lost mastery of himself, and having
bathed and dressed, he sat down to await
Baretti. When the little man came he saw the
change in his friend's appearance and augured
well of it, and Tom justified the augury, for he
broke down no more, but told the story of
Lording's visit with a calm almost judicial.
Baretti, indeed, displayed the more emotion of
the two, though he was careful — in the memory

of Tom's late outbreak — to repress himself for
his friend's sake.

There was a struggle in Baretti's heart the
rage of which would not be easy to exaggerate
in words. For if gratitude were a passion with
him, his love for his friend's sweetheart none
the less fought for unrivalled domination, and
the hopes and joys that sprang up anew within
him at this story were terrible in the fierce
light of his own scorn and hatred of them, and
the passion of his self-contempt. The manhood
in him won the day, as it had done
before, but the conflict left him shaken and
hysterical.

My cousin Mark,' said Tom, when he had
told the story, ' gave me an inkling of some
such charge against me.'

Your cousin Mark,' said Baretti, with
curious quiet, ' is a very astute person, and he
plays his game very well.'

What does this mean,' inquired Tom.

It means,' says Baretti, ' that I suspect
your cousin Mark to be the man who sets this
story afoot. Listen, Carroll. Whose turn will
this tale serve? Your cousin Mark's! Who
is the one man in all the world who finds it
to his interest to throw a cloud about your
character? Your cousin Mark! Now listen.
Speak if you like when I have done. Is it a
common characteristic of mankind to be so
self-sacrificing as to throw over a fortune like
your father's for a scruple of honour ? Would
not most men throw over the scruple for the
fortune ? And has not this fine cousin Mark
of yours protested a Httle overmuch ? And did
you ever know him as a self-sacrificing man ? '

He never had a chance to be,' said Tom ;
he was always hard-up, poor Mark. You're
wrong, Baretti. Mark's too open for such
a dastardly course as that, but he always
pretended to be a cynic, and some people
believed him

I have reason for distrusting him,' said
Baretti. ' He was trying to make a stalking
horse of you in that affair of Malfi's. You
believe his innocence in that ? I know
him to be guilty. Signora Malfi confessed
her perfidy to her husband, and defied
Mm;

He was not her husband,' said Tom.

Of that I know nothing,' said Baretti,
coolly. ' And it is not material to the case.
My argument is that he proclaimed his innocence
to you, and that he was guilty, and that
he used you and meant to use you as a screen.
And I maintain that a man of whom that is
true will stop at nothing. What ? He abused
your confidence and friendship to profit by
them in an intrigue, and he will not abuse them
to gain a fortune ? Carroll, the truth is as
plain as the sun that shines in heaven. You
told me that you found him locked in with
Bethesda at the theatre ' — Baretti was ready to

take anything to throw at Mark — ' What did
that mean ? '

Tom, on the other side, was willing to attack
the weaker portions of Baretti's argument, and
to leave the stronger parts untouched. A boar
or tiger when wounded will charge at anything,
but a gentleman is another sort of animal, and
he was no more disposed to be suspicious of
cousin Mark now than he would have been if
this base libel had never hurt him.

It meant nothing,' he answered. ' They
locked the door because the ordinary latch
didn't act. That was all.' These side suspicions
weakened Baretti's case instead of
strengthening it. It is always a good rule in
criminal proceedings to charge no more than
you can prove.

At this instant their talk found an unexpected
diversion. They had already heard a
ling at the front door, but had scarcely noticed
it, and now, with a hurried knock, and no

waiting for a response, in burst Lording, with
a red face and panting breath, waving a newspaper
in his hand.

Have you told Mr. Baretti about this
matter ? ' he asked. Tcm nodded a surprised
assent. ' Then I can speak at once. You asked
cn^ just now what you were to fight. Fight
that.' And he flung the newspaper on the
table. ' It's a low rag, I know, but you can
wipe your hands on it as well as if it were the
'' Times " itself

Tom took up the journal and looked at it.
He knew it at a glance, for its name was commonly
cried by hawkers about the streets, and
he had heard it spoken of once or twice at the
clubs and elsewhere as a sort of journalistic
sewer. Civilisation, amongst other curious
matter, has given us this particular joy. The
liberty of the press is a glorious thing, and with
a great price bought our ancestors this freedom,
but in this mixed world no blessing is unmixed.

You may buy now-a-days the pure milk of the
word, or, ' turkey stuffed with truffles gay,' if
the dish suit you, and you may have either
served in gold and silver, but the human porker
likes his cabbage-stalk served in a gutter, and
he gets it, seasoned to taste.

There was no difficulty in finding the paragraph
Lording had come to show, for the old
boy had marked it round with a quill pen in
something of a triumphant rage, if the look of
the heavy lines could be trusted. Tom read it
with a sense of rising indignation and disgust.
It was written with 'a high pretence of moral
tone, and that was only natural, for the British
porker, unlike his French brother, prefers an
almost religious seasoning with his garbage. A
moral tone can make even cabbage-stalks respectable,
and they eat the better for respectability,
delicious as they are without it.

You'll fight that ? ' asked Lording, still
breathing hard with haste.

Yes,' said Tom, with a pugnacious look
which was strange to him. ' I think I'll fight
it. I am much obliged to you for bringing it.'

This brings the thing to a head, you
see,' said Lording, ' and I am glad I chanced
upon it.'

So am I,' said Tom. ' Heartily glad.'

'You'd better come to my lawyer,' said
Lording. ' This isn't in his line, but he'll tellus
the best man to go to, and we must begin at
once.'

They walked out and took a cab together,
leaving Baretti at home. Li less than half an
hour they were closeted together with a shrewd
criminal lawyer, and in ten minutes he knew as
much of the case as he wanted to know at that
stage.

We prove publication to begin with,' said
the lawyer, 'and will do that at once.' He
rang his bell. ' Go to that address, Mr. Wilder,
and purchase a copy of-the Way of the

World." You may point out this paragraph,
and may say that a libel suit will be based
upon it.'

The clerk retired, and with another word
or two the lawyer bowed out his visitors, and
was deep in a fresh case in five minutes. Lording,
having begun to fight on Tom's side, was
disposed to go with him heart and soul, but
there was one thing which weighed against the
youngster. He spoke of it at last, though with
reluctance.

'Tom,' he said, as they walked towards
Montague Gardens together, ' I want to ask a
question. I passed by the Garrick Theatre the
other morning; — it's a week or two a^o now —
and I saw a young woman hanging on to you
in the street at the main entrance. I didn't
like the look of it, and it made me readier to
receive these stories than I should have been if
I hadn't seen it. Now tell me, what was it ? '

I would rather not tell you yet,' said Tom,

to Lording's indignation, but the old boy's feelings
were a little calmed by what followed.
She is singing at the Garrick, and her name is
Signora Malfi. If you will ask Baretti about
her, he can tell you something, and I will fill
in the rest.'

Mark's scheme, ably as it had been built
up, began to look shaky. Baretti told his story
in answer to Lording's inquiry, and did more.
He let loose his suspicions of Mark Carroll, and
a seed or two of them fell in Lording's mind
and took growth there. It was not easy for an
open and generous nature like Lording's to give
nutriment to a belief in a villany so shameless
in any man he had familiarly known. He
struggled against his conviction, if but feebly.

No, no, Mr. Baretti, Mark isn't so bad as
that. He wanted to put Tom straight with his
father. He begged me to go down to him
at once and mediate with him. I went down,'
said Lording, rubbing his head with a rueful

look, ' and, like an old fool, I had a row with
him, and made things worse than ever.'

Mr. Mark Carroll is a very astute young
man indeed,' said Baretti, with a smile which
was not altogether pretty to look at.

Why,' cried Lording, glaring at him, ' do
you think he sent me down on purpose to have
a row with his uncle ? '

Mr. Carroll,' said the painter, ' is the last
man in the world with whose domestic concerns
I should be inclined to meddle. His son and
his friend will forgive me if I say that Mr.
Carroll's sense of this own dignity is a little
exaggerated. Mr. Lording will forgive me if I
say that his own warm temper and impetuous
good-heartiness make him the last man in the
^vorld to send to Mr. Carroll on such a message
at such a moment. And Mr. Mark may or
may not forgive me if I say that he reckoned
on that, and played his game with the cunning
I gave him credit for.'

VOL. n.

Pooh ! ' said Lording, feebly ; but he was
evidently confounded by Baretti's suspicion
and had no heart to make a fight against it.

Mr. Mark Carroll's anxiety to be rid of
his uncle's fortune is a little too pressing to vnj
mind,' said the painter.

Everybody knows how easy it is to believe
a thing by mere dint of talking about it, and by
this time Baretti was confident of the truth of
his suspicions, and saw the ground more and
more plainly at his feet, and felt his steps more
certain every minute. Lording began to share
his doubts, and even Tom's belief in Mark was
somewhat shaken.

I'll tell you what I'll do,' said Lording, at
last. ' I'll go and see Mark, and have a talk
with lira about it.'

And get angry with him in ^\^q minutes,'
said Baretti, with a laugh, to make the thing
less biting, ' and tell him the truth about himself,
and put him on his guard. Forgive me,
Mr. Lording. Let nie go.'

I am a little hot-tempered, I'm afraid,'
said Lording, sorrowfully. ' I fly out at things.
I'm not fit to meddle with these matters, but if I
promise that I'll hold my tongue will you take
m« with you, and let. me judge him for myself? '

Baretti could scarcely refuse this, and in
effect they set out for Mark's hotel, and found
the young man there in a state of warm indignation
at the libellous paragraph, which had
been put into his hand by a friend.

Tom will prosecute for libel ? ' he asked.

He has taken proceedings already,' said
Baretti.

Eight ! ' cried Mark, warmly, ' I wish I
were free to act for him, but my fear of losing
my influence over his father ties my hands,
and I can't do it. Will he institute a criminal
prosecution, or go for damages ? It's not of
much use to go for damages, though, against a
rag like that,' scornfully indicating the journal,
which lay upon the table of his room.
o2

Lording looked at Baretti meaningly.
Everything seemed open and above board about
Mark. It was scarcely believable that a man
could speak as he did and not mean it.

How does Tom take it ? ' Mark asked. ' I
was going up to see him when you called. I
leave town tomorrow, and he ought to be
assured at once of the confidence and sympathy
of all his friends. There ought to be a cat-o'-nine-tails
for that sort of fellow,' waving his
hand again towards the journal. There was
some truth in Mark's anger at the newspaper
The libellous paragraph gave Tom a chance to
come forward with a contradiction so complete
that it might excite even his father's sympathy
for the undeserved shames he had endured.
The filthy scandal-mongers ! ' cried Mark,
aloud, with an air of rage. ' The babbling
idiots ! ' he added, inwardly. ' How could I
reckon on their stepping in to spoil my game ? '
Well,' said Lording, when Mark had run

upstairs to this bedroom for hat and gloves,
what do 3'ou think of him ? Doesn't he look
honest enough ? '

'He plays well,' said Baretti. 'Wait and

see.'

CHAPTER XX.

The preliminary proceedings made Tom Carroll
famous. They did more. They filled the
Garrick Theatre night after night with an
audience eager to see the ladies who were the
subject of so engaging a scandal. If the lessee's
arrangements had been less extravagantly made
« Godiva ' might have been vv^orth money to
him ; but as things were, the inevitable, unavoidable
loss went on, delayed or hastened by
fluctuations, but continuous. Tom and Baretti
had talked the thing thoroughly over, and had
come to the conclusion that to attempt to
lessen the expenses by discharging the famous
artists who performed in the opera and engaging
less famous and less able singers in

their place would be suicidal. To spend now
and to go on spending in reason so long as the
public cared to fill the house seemed wise to
both of them, because Tom would have it that
all the money thus thrown broadcast was seed
for the future, and Baretti was kej^t in ignorance
of the amount of his resources.

I have my mother's fortune,' Tom would
say, without a thought of deceiving Baretti
as to its magnitude. The painter never
guessed how slender his friend's resources were
growing.

Godiva ' had already achieved a success
large enough to impose Tom upon the ignorant
public, but those who were behind the scenes
theatrical critics, actors and singers, and
professional musicians all over London, managers,
theatrical agents, and publishers of music
were perfectly aware of the truth. The truth
did nobody any harm — but as they supposed
Tom Carroll to be a man of great wealth,

some of them thought of a fool and his money,
and the rapid partition which is said to be
effected between them.

Tom would willingly have stopped the
work and closed the theatre long before the
great libel case came on, but he felt how
disastrous a step that might be to him. He
could foresee the construction the other side
would put upon it, and in fancy he could see
an eminent pleader of name unknown pounding
an assize-court table, and informing the court
that the alleged libel had had the effect of
closing a house in which such infamy was
practised — that the witnesses had been purposely
scattered by the complainant to prevent
prejudice to his own case — that it was easily to
be proved, and would be proved before that
charge was disposed of, that the receipts at the
house had never been higher than they were
at the time at which the doors of the house
were closed — and so-forth and so-forth. And

SO ' Godiva ' ran, and the law's delays kept the
libel case hanging on, and the great gulf of
poverty came nearer and nearer, and no man
guessed it, except the man who was to plunge
into it, and who saw no way to avoid it.

The fiime Tom Carroll got out of the proceedings
in the libel case was not of the sort
after which he thirsted, and when the actual
trial of the case came on he was subjected to
great discomforts. Bowder, Q.C., was engaged
for the other side, and made it extremely unpleasant
for the complainant.

'Now, Mr. Carroll,' said Bowder, Q.C.,
hitching his gown at him when he got him in
the box, ' I believe you are a man of spotless
moral character.'

Thank you, sir,' said Tom, who was cooler
than he had expected to be.

Pray don't accept that as my conclusion,
Mr. Carroll,' said Bowder, who could be facetious
'I may entertain a different opinion.'

Now this seemed a little unwarrantably
insolent, and Tom let out a facer in return.

.Naturally,' lie said. ' You are paid to
entertain a different opinion.'

I will leave you, sir,' said the notable
criminal barrister, with an air of dignity,
'- to reflect upon the good taste of that observation
at your leisure. But now, Mr. Carroll,
the standpoint you take is that you come
into court to prefer this charge as a man of
spotless moral character .^ Come. That is so,
I fancy ? '

The standpoint I take is that the article
complained of is false and scandalous,' said Tom.

And that you are a man of spotless moral
character ? '

That is a claim few men might care to
prefer,' said Tom.

You don't care to put it forward in your
own case ? ' asked Bowder, Q.C.

'Do you? ' returned the complainant.

The case was interesting, and the court
was fulL There were two or three barristers
present who had nothing on their hands, and
who knew ]mr. Bowder and his ways. The
defendant's counter-query tickled these gentlemen
so that they led the court on to laughter,
and for half a second the notable barrister was
disconcerted. But this game of fence was old
to him. and he knew better than to lose his
temper.

You mistake the situation, Mr. Carroll,' he
said, ^\'ith suave humour. ' It is you who are
under cross-examination, and not I. Perhaps
we may be allowed to put the matter in this
way : Without actually being a man of spotless
moral character, you like to be thought so.'

Kindly proceed to your examination, if
you please,' answered the complainant. ' You
can't mend a bad case by intellectual horseplay.'


You remind me of my duty to my clients,'

said Bowder, still suavely humorous, though a
certain wickedness underlay the suavity. ' I
am obliged to you. Did you ever stand in the
dock of a police-court, Mr. Carroll ? '

Never.'

Upon your oath .^ '

Upon my oath.'

Mr. Bowder's attendant satellite pulled him
by the gown, and whispered. Bowder stooped
to listen, and arose smiling.

At least, Mr. Carroll, you have been in the
hands of the police ? '

I have,' said Tom, quietly.

And this is not your first appearance in a
court of justice ? '

'No.'

I think you did not make the other appearance
to which I allude as a witness, but asa
prisoner ? '

I appeared as the defendant in a case of
assault.'

Don't you think you might have been a
little more ingenuous at first, Mr. Carroll ? '
asked the able Bowder. 'You did not appear
in the dock ? Where did you appear? '

I had a seat in the body of the court,'
Tom answered, feeling anything but comfortable.
The apparent quibble in his answer
troubled him. ' Perhaps the court will allow
me to explain. I have no desire to evade this
examination. A categorical question was put
to me, and I answered it ; but I have no wish
to fence about trifles.'

You think a charge of wanton and unprovoked
assault a trifle, Mr. Carroll ? ' asked
Bowder. No man at the bar (and this is one
of the blots upon our legal system which can
scarcely be scraped away) is expected to be
fair to an adverse witness.

Permit me,' said the complainant, ' to
throw myself upon your merciful consideration.'
This he said satirically, and it was well enough,

but before it was fairly spoken he lost his
temper for a second or two, and added, ' I
neither said nor meant that, sir, and you know
it.' He was not accustomed to be badgered in
this way, and it cost him all he knew to restrain
his anger. Anger gave him no advantage,
and, recognising that fact, he prepared to control
himself anew.

Very well, Mr. Carroll,' said the barrister
jauntily. 'We will come to matters of fact.
You have been in the hands of the police, and
you have appeared before a magistrate. Was
the charge against you dismissed ? '

It was held to be proved,' Tom answered
and I was fined twenty pounds.'

I am obliged to you for your candour,
Mr. Carroll,' said the Q.C, benevolently malicious.
' You were fined twenty pounds. And
do you read the newspapers ? '

Occasionally,' Tom answered, seeing what
was coming.

Are you acquainted with a publication
called " The Mirror " P '

'I know that there is such a journal.'

You know there is such a journal. Now,
since you are in a candid mood for the moment,
you may, perhaps, admit that you saw an
article in that journal relating to yourself. I
can assist you if your memory fails you. It
appeared on the day following your appearance
at the police-court. Did you see it ? '

I saw it.'

I believe it spoke of your rowdy and
disgraceful conduct ? '

• It condemned me in the strongest terms.
I cannot call its terms to mind.'

It condemned you in the strongest terms.
Thank you. Do you happen to remember
that it spoke of the leniency of the Bench as
having probably been extorted by your wealth
and social position ? '

I remember that.'

And that it expressed very strongly an
opinion that your offence would more fittingly
have been punished by imprisonment than by
fine.'

I remember that also.'

I presume, Mr. Carroll, that you expected
these questions ? '

I expected them. Certainly.'

And that the prospect did not encourage
you to pose as a man of spotless moral
character ? '

Cold silence.

'Well, Mr. Carroll,' pursued the practised
tormentor, ' that is a point upon which you are
naturally sensitive, and upon which I will not
press you.' The people in the court thought
this amusing and laughed at it. ' But now, sir,
will you be so obliging as to tell us what
domestic event followed upon your appearance
at the police-court.'

Be more explicit, if you please.'

I believe you maintain your innocence of
that charge of which we have just spoken.'

Emphatically.'

'Do your friends accept your disclaimer?
Is it, or is it not, a fact that your father instantly
cast you off, and that he still refuses to speak
to you ? '

It is true that I am not on terms of friendship
with my father.'

And is it true that the breach arose out of
you: rowdy and disgraceful conduct.'

That is certainly untrue.'

That it arose out of the assault and battery
upon the person of Mr. Moss.'

It arose chiefly, as I believe,' Tom answered,
' from my father's anger at the publicity
that case had received.'

Did he decline to receive your account of
the case ? '

Unhappily, he did.'

I can sympathise with your regret,' said

VOL. II. p

Bowder, and this time the laughter was hearty.
It was not the fault of the laughers that they
could not know how lofty a nature which was
thus tortured. ' Now I will ask you another
question, if you please, Mr. Carroll. I see by
the public advertisements that Mr. Bethesda is
the nominal lessee of the Garrick theatre.
Who is the real lessee ? '

I am the actual lessee.'

And Mr. Bethesda, persistently announced
as the lessee, " the sole lessee," never was the
lessee at all ? '

Quite so.'

Does a representation of that sort fit with
your notions of spotless honour, Mr. Carroll ? '

It is a common practice,' Tom answered.

And a most convenient one, no doubt,'
said Bowder, in a sort of virtuous triumph over
vice exposed. ' I will not detain you much
longer, sir. The taking of the theatre was a
purely commercial speculation ? '

Not purely commercial.'

Xot purely commercial ? ' cried Bowder.
You have been kind enough to admit so much
that, by-and-by, you may oblige us by admitting
everything. What other element '

• I took the Garrick Theatre chiefly for the
purpose of laying my own work before the
public'

And as a commercial speculation ? '
sand,' Tom answered, ' as a commercial

speculation.'

Now, will you be good enough to tell us

whether it has ever succeeded as a commercial

speculation ? '

• It has not succeeded.'

Have you, or have you not, lost money
from the first ? '

I have lost money from the first.'
Is it, or is it not, a fact within your knowledge
that the house will not hold enough to
pay the working expenses ? '

p 2

That fact was brought to my knowledge
shortly after the opening of the theatre.'

And you held on to your precious commercial
speculation ? '

I had reasons for continuing it.'

We shall get at them by-and-by,' said
Bowder.

Then followed a long series of questions
about Miss This and Miss That, to every one of
which Tom could give a direct and honest
negative. Beat about as he would, Bowder
could fasten no admission on him here, but
the young fellow already stood dangerously
prejudiced. The judge knew how to estimate
a good deal of what had gone on already, but
the jury and some of the listeners thought the
nominal leadership of Bethesda and the reckless
financing of the house looked as black against
the complainant as his admissions about the
assault and the ' Mirror.'

But many of the performers in ' Godiva '

were people of repute, and they came up one
after another to give a blank denial to the
allegations of the libel. Nothing Bowder, Q.C.,
could do could shake these witnesses, and to
any candid mind it was as clear as day that
the morality of the Garrick was a little higher
than that of most theatres, instead of being a
great deal lower. In his address to the jury,
Bowder, Q.C., was very crushing with the
complainant. ' You saw, gentlemen, how he
shuffled and equivocated and prevaricated in
that box before you.' Bowder was so indignant
at this that the jury really thought they
had seen it, and shared the eminent pleader's
indignation at it. Then the great man was
mightily sarcastic over the commercial speculation,
and having already dragged the real
figures out of Bethesda, he demanded to know
if any man in whom there dwelt one scintilla
of intelligence was asked to believe that
there was not some sinister purpose behind

a profusion so prodigal as that of the complainant.
But he was at his best in dealing
with the assault case. Here he rose to heights
of moral indignation so sublime, and drew
picts-es of the wreck of domestic hopes in
the Carroll family so touching, that the jury
were ready to acquit the defendants on the
spot. The judge set all this right, however, ashe
generally can do, and the intelligent dozen
of men gradually sobered under the judicial
shower of fact and reason. On the evening of
the third day of the trial they retired, and, after
considering for some half-hour, brought in a
verdict of Guilty against the Editor. The
judge, with a necessary word or two about
the liberty of the Press and the sanctity of
private character, sentenced him to twelvemonths'
imprisonment, and the great libel
case was at an end, and Tom Carroll's character
had had the black so rubbed into it that nothing
could get it altogether clear again. People

know very Avell that where there is smoke there
is fire, and very few thought Tom well out of
the case.

It is an old aphorism that you have only to
throw plenty of mud to make sure of it sticking,
and a good deal of the mud which had been
thrown at Tom seemed still to the public eye
to hold fast to him below his legal whitewashing.
The case came as a sort of godsend to the
newspapers, which happened otherwise to be
dull that week, and it was reported at great
length, a special staff being employed by each
of the leading journals. There was not a man
in England whose affairs were more relentlessly
canvassed whilst the trial lasted and for a few
days afterwards.

Now all this was gall and wormwood to
Mary Lording, who heard a great deal more
about it than Tom himself. Ladies found a
curious fascination in the case, and spoke with
a shuddering joy of that horrid Mr. Carroll

whom they used to think so nice and who had
turned out to be so very, very dreadful. Some
spoke in ignorance, and some in spite, and
some in condolence, and the girl bore it, since
it had to be borne. She refused absolutely and
entirely to believe one word of evil against the
man she had known from his boyhood and her
own infancy, and had never known anything
but a gentleman. She scorned and hated the
calumnies which surrounded him, and she
scorned and hated those who believed in them.
She was not Tom's lover, but she was his honest
friend and staunch partisan. And she would
have been his lover too, with all these troubles
behind him to push him into her arms, if it
had not been for her own heart's memories
of Baretti.

As for Tom, his position was extremely
difficult. He was on the verge of bankruptcy,
and the promises he had made to himself were
unfulfilled. He felt himself soiled by the

infirmities which had been brought so near him,
and, innocent as he was, he felt vile in his own
eyes when he thought of Mary. How could a
pure-minded woman bear to think of associating
herself for life with a man who had been the
centre of such a story ?

This sort of exaggerated fineness of sentiment,
as everybody knows, can have the edge
taken off it by close and constant intercourse,
but Tom stayed away from Lording's house,
and gave himself no chance. His growing
poverty gave him a more genuine reason for
absence than his morbid delicacy provided, and
everything he had to do at this time seemed to
proclaim him a failure.

When the trial was over the last reason for
keeping up the run of the opera at the Garrick
had disappeared. The people knew he was a
failure, and that he had thrown away five or
six thousand pounds in the attempt to make
himself look like a success.

Advertise the last six nights, Bethesda,' he
said, to his manager.

There are no arrangements for anything to
follow ? ' said Bethesda, half questioningly.

No,' said Tom. ' I think I have had
about enough of theatrical enterprise. Do you
think we can relet the house ? '
f ' I should say there is every chance of it
said Bethesda. ' Every chance.'

Very well,' said Tom. ' Send out the
posters '' Last six nights of the enormous musical
failure, ' Godiva.' " I shall be glad to have
done with it.'

Mr. Bethesda, looking after the retreating
figure of his patron, smiled humility and
benevolence.

He can afford it, poor young gentleman,'
said Mr. Bethesda, inwardly. ' It's a pity, but
the blow is not likely to prove fatal to him. I
have not done badly in his company, though I
expected to do better. A young gentleman

with a good deal of money and no knowledge
of business is sometimes a very awkward sort
of customer to deal with, but Mr. Carroll has
been a pearl among employers.'

Since Tom would not call on Lording, the
old fellow called on Tom, without any decided
idea of what he meant to say to him. He
began to talk about the finish of the trial, and jf
after expressing his exultation at the punishment
which had been inflicted upon the libeller,
he found Tom so irresponsive that it was difficult
to go on.

Tom,' said the old boy, suddenly, ' treat
me fairly. Tell me about your plans. What
are you going to do ? '

I shall do as best I can, sir,' Tom answered.
I can make a living, I dare say.'

Make a living ? ' cried Lording, savagely.
Why don't you behave like a sensible
fellow ? '

Tom knew what his companion meant, but

he returned no answer. He was all but bankrupt,
and the whole world knew of the failure
which had so long been bolstered up by money,
and blazoned as a success in all the journals.
And though he had gained his case against the
scandal which had assailed him, he knew very
well that there were scores of people who
thought him soiled by it. It was in Lording's
mind that Tom ought somehow to be penitent
and ashamed of himself and generally docile,
and, in fact, the two men were, in a word, at
once depressed and irritable.

I'm not going to throw myself at the head
of any man who doesn't want me,' said Lording.
I've stuck by you all the time, and I'd stick
by you now if you'd let me. But since you
won't, I'm going. When you come to your
senses, I shall be glad to see you.'

Very well, sir,' said Tom, sadly and
bitterly. There was no open quarrel, for there
was no ground for an open quarrel between

them, but Lording rose and Avent his way. It
was not this fault, he told himself. He was not
the man to desert another in extremity. But
he could go no further than he had gone, and
it was shameful to keep on throwing his
daughter at the head of a man who would not
take her. But he was not happy, and he felt
as if, after all, he had acted shabbily. This is
not a sentiment calculated to improve the temper,
and by the time he reached home he was
in a state of hot wrath against himself and Tom.
Mary saw his disturbance and asked its cause.

I've been trying to bring that young fool
to reason,' he said, rather unfairly. ' He's like
a bear with a sore head. I can't get a word
out of him, and I'm not going to fling my child
at the head of any man who doesn't choose to
take her.'

Papa,' said the girl, bending over him and
caressing him, 'remember how tried he has
been and how unfortunate.'

She felt that she, at least, should be
true to him in spite of everything, and she
went away to write a hopeful letter to him.
If only it had been possible to make him
happy without marrying him. She tried to
write the hopeful letter, and the words that
came to her pen were on one sheet so icy and
on another so over-warm that she could make
nothing of the task, and after a dozen efforts
gave it up. If she could have written ' I love
you, and if you leave me you will break my
heart,' the whole thing would naturally have
ended and determined then and there. But
she could not write it truly, and she could not
bring herself to feign it. And all the time her
heart was more With Baretti than with Tom,
and she had her own unhappiness, and the best
of human hearts are selfish in misery.

The letter went unwritten. She would
leave it to events to untangle themselves.

CHAPTER XXI.

About a fortnight after the closing of the
Garrick Theatre Azubah Moore received an
amazing statement from her teacher of singing.
For the future his terms would be multiplied
by eight.

But surely,' she said, ' that is a very extraordinary
increase.'

As a matter of fact,' said the teacher, ' it
is not an increase at all. I ask for no more
than I have always received — for no more than
the payment of my ordinary terms.'

She answered that she did not understand,
and her look of bewilderment was too natural
to be feigned.

The difference,' he said, ' has hitherto

been paid, but I cannot reckon upon it any-longer.'


Has been paid ? ' she asked, in angry
amazement. ' By whom ? '

By Mr. Carroll,' returned the teacher.

By Mr. Carroll ' she repeated. She could
scarcely be angry at that, for it was to him
that she and her father and mother had consented
to owe everything. In spite of the
daily papers, she was ignorant of the great
libel case, and she knew nothing of Tom's
losses, or of that family quarrel which had been
made public all the world over.

'By Mr. Carroll,' said the teacher again.
I had supposed you knew of it ; but it was no
concern of mine. But now. Miss Moore, that
Mr. Carroll is no longer in a position to keep
up his share of the payments, I must ask for a

revision of our contract, or ' He made a

motion with his hands as if he tossed something
away.

Mr. Carroll is no longer in a position
to pay you ? ' asked the girl. She was
not thinking of herself at all. ' What has
happened ? '

I'm afraid,' said the teacher, ' that he is
ruined. Haven't you seen the papers? Mr.
Carroll has been a good deal before the public
lately.'

She could only answer, ' Ruined ! ' The
thing seemed incredible.

I'm afraid so,' said the teacher. ' If you
like, Miss Moore, to enter into an arrangement
with me to make over a share of your professional
earnings for the first two years, I
shall think it worth while to superintend your
studies without present payment, and even to
devote to you some special care and attention.
Otherwise I shall be compelled to ask for my
ordinary terms.'

She heard this, but had no understanding
for it.

VOL. II. Q

Can you tell me,' she asked, ' how Mr.
Carroll was ruined ? '

He seems to have lost a good deal of
money in his theatrical enterprise, and to have
quarrelled with his father. I know no more
about it ; but he is said to be completely
broken. Will you think over my proposal.
Miss Moore, and give me your conclusions
on it?'

Will you write to me ? ' she answered. ' I
cannot tell you what I may do.'

He promised, and she left him and walked
away, feeling quite dazed and staggered. She
was but a girl, with a very limited knowledge
of the world and its chances of rise and fall. It
seemed as amazing to be told that Mr. Carroll
was ruined as it would be to the average citizen
to learn for certain that the Prince of Wales
Was reduced to the shelter of the workhouse in
his native parish. He had always seemed so
fir above distress, so bright, so gay, so grand

a signor altogether, that lie had been like the
creature of another sphere to her. And now
lie ' was said to be completely broken.' What
might that mean ? Shabbily dressed, ill-shod,
ill-lodged, ill-fed ? Forlorn and sad-visaged,
and in grief? She could picture him thus to
herself, wild as the vision seemed.

She was country-bred and a staunch walker,
and now, having her usual musical hour to
spare, she went home on foot, thinking all the
way. Latterly, since her father's accident, she
had been accustomed to act and think for
herself, and it was not in her mind as yet to
tell anybody of the change in her own fortunes
which Tom Carroll's fall had brought about.
That indeed troubled her very little by comparison
with his misfortunes. She was so full
of him that when she reached home and found
him sitting, genial and unchanged, in the shop
which he himself had provided as a resource
for the family, she had scarcely the presence of

q2

mind to greet him with a mere good day and a
shake of the hand.

He was sitting at the counter talking to
Mrs. Moore, with a glass of milk and one of
the crisp little dairy loaves before him.

'What excellent bread you have, to be
sure, Mrs. Moore,' he said, smilingly, ' and what
charming country milk. You ought to do a
great trade here.'

'We're doing wonderful, thank God, sir,'
answered Mrs. Moore, in a flutter of pleasure.
And I don't think as if Moore only had his
health, poor thing, sir, we should ever ha' been
better off in wer lives.'

I'm heartily glad to hear it,' he answered,
munching away at the bread and sipping at the
milk. ' Beautiful bread this is, to be sure. And
what a sauce an appetite is, Mrs. Moore. I
haven't had a meal of bread and milk since
I was quite a baby.'

No, sir, I suppose not,' said Mrs. Moore.

The girl stood by with her roll of music in
her hands and watched him. Unchanged ?
No. That had seemed true in the first revulsion
of reality from the dreadful fancies she
had had of him; but now she could see the
trace of trouble on his brow and in his eyes.
He was very pale, too, and when he was
silent a look of suffering would settle upon his
face. In a little while he arose and went
away with a hearty shake hands for each of
them.

'I can't stay until Moore awakes, Mrs.
Moore ; but you'll give him my respects, and
tell him I called, won't you ? '

Azubah ran upstairs and watched him
furtively from her own window as he went
down the street, swinging his cane in a fashion
which looked gay and light-hearted enough, if
it had not been for her memory of those new
fines upon his face and the look of trouble in
his eyes. Whilst she watched him his cane

ceased to swing, this gait changed, he seemed
somehow to droop in his walk, and as he
turned out of sight the poise of his head, and
indeed the attitude of his whole figure, looked
not only thoughtful but despondent.

Azubah was one of those who act upon
impulse, and who analyse the impulse afterwards
or not at all. What impulse moved her
when she ran downstairs and followed Tom
Carroll she would have been puzzled to say,
then or afterwards. It was certainly not
curiosity. There was sympathy in it ; but
sympathy was not all. She had fluttered out
into the streets, and, turning the corner Tom
had turned before her, had caught sight of the
retreating figure before any questions of her
own purpose arose in her mind. Then she
awoke on a sudden to a shamefaced feeling of
obtrusive impertinence, and retreated with both
cheeks on fire, but not before she had observed
anew the drooping, melancholy gait into which

Tom Carroll had fallen, a gait which expressed
despondency and irresolution as plainly as the
words on a printed page.

There are prodigious numbers of people in
the world who have learned almost all they
know of human nature from novels and the
stage. In life a man is not under the necessity
of making his emotions understood by the
denizens of a distant gallery, and nature plays
more subtly than art ; so subtly that it is only
one in a possible ten thousand of spectators
who may guess at what this sign or that expresses.
To walk four or five miles through
daylight London is to be exposed to the glances
of many thousands, and yet— unless you purposely
publish them — to keep your own emotions
secret. It is probable that nobody but Azubah
saw more than a meditative slowness in Tom's
walk that afternoon ; but she read, or seemed
to read, something very like despair in it.

She thought of him sadly that afternoon

and evening. Nobody could tell into what
depths of poverty she and her father and
mother might have fallen if it had not been
for his kindness, and now he himself was in
distress. They could pay him back by-and-by
what he had lent them ; but she knew enough
of their differing spheres to tell that the sum
which had made her father and mother fairly
prosperous would be of little service to him.
There are country gentlemen in England richer
than the owner of Trench House ; but she had
not been bred to think so, and she exaggerated
Tom's fall because she exaggerated his former
splendours. Yet they must strain every nerve
to repay him now, little as it would be to him,
and she herself owed him a private debt which
she would be quit of in one way or another.
The splendid, generous, kingly youngster, heir-apparent
to the throne of Overhill, the lightest-hearted,
freest-handed, and most friendly among
men, and now ' said to be completely broken.'

The girl's tender and unworldly heart filled
with a dangerous pity.

She dreamed in her broken sleep that night
that he was in rags and starving, and she
brooded unhappily over the dream next day.
And sitting next morning in the little room
behind the shop, still brooding over an idle
needle, she saw the object of her thoughts
enter at the doorway, and, being alone for the
moment, she was forced to go in and meet
him.

Good morning, Miss Moore,' he said, with
something of an embarrassed air, which she
could read plainly enough, but was at a loss to
account for. ' I have business in this part of
London just now, and I am becoming quite
a frequent visitor. How is your father today?'


He will be glad to see you,' said Azubah.
Will you come in and see him ? '

Tom assented, and the girl led the way.

The old farmer with his wasted face and keen
eyes sat in an arm-chair smoking.

'Go and look after the shop, Zubah/ he
said, when he and Tom had shaken hands.
Mr. Carroll will take care of me for a minute
or two.' The girl obeyed. ' And so, Mr.
Thomas,' said Moore, when she had gone,
our Christian friend has cleaned you out,
has he .? '

This query rather staggered the visitor, and
for half a minute he returned no answer.

It was my own fault entirely, Moore,' he
said, at last. ' If by our Christian friend you
mean Bethesda '

I mean Bethesda,' said Moore, nodding.

I think he acted very fairly and honestly
all along.'

Very likely,' said the farmer, ' very likely
Spilt milk, Mr. Thomas, is a foolish thing to
cry over. I'm a dairyman now, and that proverb
seems appropriate. But I was never

sorrier for anything than I was to read that
story in the papers. Neither Zubah nor the
Missis ever look at the papers, so far as I know ;
but I tore the leaf out and used it bit by bit
for pipe lights, lest they should see it. It
wasn't pretty reading, for a young woman in
particular.'

No,' Tom concurred. ' It wasn't pretty
reading.'

I've heard say, Mr. Thomas,' said the
farmer, ' as your mother left you eight thousand
pound. Now, if what the papers reported is
true — I haven't seen our Christian friend lately,
and so I haven't had a chance to ask him about
it — if what the papers reported is true, there
isn't a great deal of it left.'

No,' said Tom ; ' there isn't much W it
left, Moore. There is very little of it left.'

'And you've split with the old Squire?'
Tom returned no answer. ' It isn't pleasant to
talk about it, Mr. Thomas,' pursued the farmer,

'and I'm not talking out of idle curiosity.
You've split with the old Squire ? '

'My father and I have quarrelled,' said
Tom.

'Well, that's no wonder,' returned the
other. ' And what are you going to do .^ You
haven't been brought up to do anything.'

It was not easy for Tom Carroll to say that
he was hawking musical manuscripts from door
to door amongst the London publishers. He
tried to answer lightly.

I will tell you my plans by-and-by. I
have no fears about myself. I have a living at
the ends of my fingers, Moore.'

'And the old Squire's taken up with Mr.
Mark, has he ? ' said the farmer. ' I can manage
to hold a pen by this time, and when I read
that case in the papers I wrote to Wilkins and
asked him to send me a line or two about
the business. He tells me Mr. Mark prophesies
everywhere that you'll come to your

own again, and says he's nothing but a
warming-pan.'

Yes,' said Tom ; ' Mark has been sanguine
all along.'

I'll bet he has,' returned Moore, with a dry
laugh. Tom looked at him inquiringly. Here
again there was an evident suspicion of Mark.

What do you mean by that, Moore ? '

Mean ? ' said the farmer, in his cracking
Voice. ' That he has been sanguine all along.
What the dickens else should he be ? He was
as poor as a church mouse before the Squire
took to him, and now" it looks as if he'd come
in for a pretty penny. Sanguine ? I should
think he was.'

Then you don't believe that my cousin
Mark is doing his best to bring about a reconciliation
between my father and myself? ' asked
Tom. There had been a time, not long ago,
when he would have scorned to speak of these
things or to Hasten to them ; but that time had

gone by, . and his childlike trust in all men had
been sorely shaken.

I never set up to be a Solomon,' said the
farmer ; ' but I should never have been such a
fool as to believe that of Mr. Mark, Mr. Thomas.
About you, now, I might have believed it ; for
you're one of those saints by nature that the
world calls fools, and you'd wait an hour in the
rain any day to help the lame dog that bit you
over a stile. But Mr. Mark ? No, no. That's
too ridiculous.'

Well,' said Tom, with a dreary look,
there are a good many millions of men in the
world who have to make their living, and if I
am to be one of them I can scarcely think it a
misfortune. And, whatever my cousin Mark
is doing now, he had nothing to do with the
quarrel between my father and me.'

'Mr. Thomas,' said the farmer, seriously,
leaning forward as far as his damaged back
would allow him, and tapping his visitor's hand

with the waxed end of his long pipe. ' Take
my tip, sir. Don't rely on a word Mr. Mark
may say for you. It will never be said. I've
known him since he was that high, and I've
reckoned him up pretty completely. I shouldn't
wonder if he'd set that nasty story abroad about
you. He's the only man in the world, it seems
to me, who has to gain by damaging you, and
it comes natural to suspect him.'

Either,' said Tom, ' my cousin Mark is the
most patent rascal in the world, or he and I
are targets for the whole world's scandal. But
I have learned my lesson, Moore. I have been
too much maligned myself to be ready to listen
to scandal about other people.'

Very well,' said the farmer. ' If Mr.
Mark's a true man I'll eat him. I've known
him man and boy this five and twenty years.
He's too honest and open and above-board
for my taste, is Mr. Mark, sir. You've been a
true friend to me and mine. Let me do you

a good turn. Leave off trusting Mr. Mark.
Play on your own hand. The old Squire's a
bit hard, and as up-stuck as a hop-pole ; but
he's as honest as the day. If he guessed Mr.
Mark's game as I do, he'd be off with him in
an hour.'

Where's the motive ? ' cried Tom. ' Why
should he want to injure me ? I am out of his
way already.'

But you ain't beyond calling back again
into his way,' said Moore, ' and he means to
drive you.'

It was sufficiently unnatural if it were true,
and yet in one way it was natural enough.
Tom's heart was tuned to suspicion by Baretti,
and if he really began to suspect he felt that
he would be dangerous. It is not easy for any
man to hold possession of himself when he has
been robbed of love, good fame, and fortune ;
and the youngster was not the Tom Carroll of
old days.

Say no more,' he said, waving his hand
against the farmer. ' I can't afford to believe
it. If I knew for certain that your suspicions
were true, I couldn't trust myself. And I am
ill-tempered and vile-hearted enough to believe
them. Give me a glass of milk, Moore, there's
a good fellow, and I'll get back home.'

Strike that gong on the table, sir,' said
the farmer ; and, Tom obeying this injunction,
Azubah came into the room.

Do you want anything, father ? '

Mr. Thomas would like a glass of milk,
my dear,' said the farmer.

And, Miss Moore,' said Tom, ' if you
wouldn't mind taking the trouble to bring me
one of those crisp little rolls, I should be much
obliged. I think there's something unusual
in the air down here that gives one a most
extraordinary appetite.'

He was so poor a pretender, and so unused
to lying even in the mildest way, that he

VOL. II. R

boggled over this simple sentence, and the
farmer looked at him with more than his come
mon keenness. First he glanced at his fingers
and looked at the rings there, and next his gaze
went to the visitor's watch-chain.

'Be so good as to tell me the time, Mr.
Thomas,' he said, when the girl had gone.
Tom drew out a handsome watch and answered
him. The farmer laboriously set his own to
the time indicated, and Azubah returned with
the roll and the milk. Her father made a
faint and scarcely perceptible motion with his
head and those supernaturally bright eyes of
his. She caught the gesture and retired again.
Mr. Thomas,' he said, when they were once
more alone, ' I'm ashamed to ask you, after all
the favours you've done me, but can you make
it convenient to lend me a five-pound note
-until tomorrow. I'll post it first thing in the
morning without fail.'

Tm very sorry,' said Tom ; ' I haven't

got it with me. I can send you one this
evening.'

'Never mind, sir, thank you,' said the
farmer. 'It's not a pressing thing. I must
wait until to-morrow

No, no,' said Tom ; ' you shall have it.'

It's very good of you, Mr. Thomas,' returned
the farmer, falling back in his arm-chair
with a singular air of relief. ' It's only a
matter of four and twenty hoiu-s with me at
the outside. The shops doing splendidly, and
I don't know that ever we were better off than
we are now. We shall be paying our debt to
you, Mr. Thomas, almost directly.'

Thank you,' said Tom. ' Make it convenient
to yourself, Moore.'

Take another roll, sir,' said the farmer,
It's a goodish step up to your part of the
town, and I reckon it's an hour or two from
your dinner-hour yet, isn't it .? You can easy
spoil your dinner by going too long without it.'
R 2

Thanks,' said Tom ; ' I'll take another.
What charming butter you have here. And
the bread is excellent.'

Hunger's a fine sauce, Mr. Thomas,' said
the farmer, and, looking keenly at his guest, he
saw a disconcerted look upon his face, and half
a blush that overspread its pallor. Tom called
for his second roll, and despatched it together
with another glass of milk ; and the two were
silent.

'I'll go now, Moore,' he said, rising, and
whisking away imaginary crumbs with his silk
handkerchief. ' I have business to do. You
shall have that to-night. I'll send a commissionaire
with it.'

Thank you kindly, Mr. Thomas,' said the
other, shaking the proffered hand. His eyes
lost the keenness which had commonly belonged
to them since his disaster, and their
shrewd suspicion melted almost into tears.
God bless you ! ' he said, as he dropped Tom's

hand. ' I don't believe a better man ever
broke bread.'

Tom laughed uneasily, and with a farewell
wave of the hand was gone. The farmer sat
with bent head for a minute or two, and then,
suddenly smiting the table with his clenched
hand, he half rose in his chair and fell back ina
spasm of pain.

No good to anybody,' he muttered. ' If
I'd got ten thousand pounds I'd give a thousand
of it to be able to follow him and put the other
nine thousand in his hands. The pride of the
place ! The pride of the place ! As handsome
a lad as you'll see in a summer's day, and as
good as you'll find in a year's journey ! '

Tom Carroll walked so slowly from South
London to West London that it was dark long
before his arrival there. He went irresolutely,
and angered at one or two corners, looking
about him with a furtive air which became
him ill indeed. Once or twice he seemed to

form a sudden resolve, and hurried on decidedly
; but Ms step slackened again, and
again he lingered at corners, or stared in at
jewellers' shop windows. At last he went
hurriedly into a by-street, and almost ran
through a darkened doorway, canning against
an ill-dressed, slatternly woman who bore a
large parcel in her arms.

For two or three minutes a figure had
dogged him at a little distance. It waited now
in the shadow of the by-street, and when he
emerged from the darkened doorway followed
him. He was like a man who had committed
a crime and feared detection, glancing suspiciously
right and left as he went ; but
he never looked behind, and never saw the
shadow in his rear. At his own doorway the
shadow caught him and laid a hand upon
him.

Oh ! ' he said, starting as he turned. ' Is
that you, Baretti ? '

Yes,' said Baretti ; ' it is I.'
■ Tom began to talk of nothings as they
walked upstairs, but Baretti spoke not a word
until the two turned into Tom's sitting-room.
There he silently lit the gas and closed the
door, and then turned upon his friend. Tom,
looking at him, saw that his face was grey and
that his eyes were full of tears.

Carroll,' said the little man, with a shaky,
husky voice, ' it was here — in this room — that
I told you all my troubles, and you relieved
them. You were rich and prosperous, and I
was poor and broken. We were not quite
friends in those days— almost strangers ; and
you were angry that I had not spoken of my
troubles sooner. And now, when you saved
my life, and gave me hope again and made
a man of me, and we are brothers in heart
and soul — you can be poor, and you can let
me be rich and prosperous and never speak a
word. Is it friendly, Carroll ? Is it just tome

? Ah, Carroll, you love your pride better
than you love your friend ! '

Why, Baretti, old fellow,' cried Tom,
lamely, ' what's all this about ? '

You do not care for me,' said the painter,
or you would not pretend like this, Carroll
He paused for an instant, and, advancing, took
Tom's hands in both his. 'I have been behind
you this last half-hour. You have come to
your last pound, and you have found my old
miserable refuge. No, no, no! Why should
you be ashamed or angry that I know it ? '

Tom walked doggedly into the next room,
and the little man followed him. His voice
was altogether broken when he spoke again.

It is unjust, Carroll ; it is unjust.' Tom
stretched out a reluctant hand towards him
backwards, and Baretti clasped it.

Don't make me break down, old fellow,*
the youngster said, with a half-hysterical laugh.
I've been through a good deal of worry lately,

but I should like to keep a stiff upper lip
through it all.'

But two slight meals of bread and milk in
four days do not furnish the best diet in the
world for a man's nerves to be steady on under
pressure of this sort, and, with Baretti's tears
upon his hand, the hapless lad turned, and
casting his free arm upon the mantelshelf,
dropped his head upon it and cried outright.
And bitterly as his own tears shamed him,
there was no shame in them, for it was not
his unhappiness that made them flow, nor any
cowardly pity for himself, but the sacred hand
of sympathy that broke their fountain's stubborn
seal.

CHAPTEE XXII.

In his native county Tom Carroll had by this
time something of a Bluebeard reputation, and
he became an almost proverbial illustration of
what a young man might become by laying
himself out to be wicked. To have cleared
himself publicly of the charge publicly brought
against him went for nothing. Young Mr.
Carroll's conduct, it was generally admitted,
must have been a terrible blow to his father,
and a great deal of sympathy was expended on
the elder Carrots woes. Mark's chastened
grief over his cousin's fall from the heights of
virtue was noticeable and worthy of notice, and
the mild hopes Mark nourished for Tom's final

reformation were supposed to do credit to his
better nature.

The soil of human intelligence would seem
to favour the growth of fallacies, but to be
virtuous is not necessarily to be happy, and to
be wicked is not necessarily to be unhappy.
Conscience, popularly supposed to be a sentry, is
so untrustworthy that he will go to sleep on
guard unless you watch him keenly ; so that he
is most active (like other troublesome functionaries)
when least needed. To speak of conscience
assailing some men, except in deathbed
fears or like cases, is to talk nonsense. It
has long been a cant of criticism that this or
that villain of fiction is made credible by
humanising touches, and we are told that there
are no men who have not some redeeming virtue
Shakespeare thought otherwise, and drew one
or two wholesale villains who had no good
points about them, but he had no concern with
humanitarian crotchets, and was satisfied to

paint men as he saw them. It is a far cry from
the intellectual and social level of ago to that
of Bill Sides, but higher than either, and lower
than either, and in all the countless grades between,
there are men who share their spirit.

It is not in the least to be supposed that
Mark Carroll was unhappy because he was a
very finished rascal. If he bit the kind hand
that had often fed him, he knew all about
gratitude and had exercised it so long as it had
been useful to him, and his conscience (if he
had a conscience) approved his action. If he
lied for his own advancement, he did it cleverly,
and his lies passed for truth, and success was
satisfying. To have been a stupid scoundrel
would have been criminal, but to be a clever
one carried credit with it, and not blame. It
was the shameless saying of a great man that a
blunder was worse than a crime. Mark carried
that creed further, and in his philosophy the
only possible crime was a blunder.

He lived in clover at Trench House — was
flush of money and had crowds of friends. In
the house Tom's name was never mentioned,
but outside he heard it often, and his attitude
towards his cousin was always beautiful.

No, no, no,' Mark would say when people
expressed their sentiments about Tom. ' Even
the General Enemy is admitted to be less black
than he's painted. And, hang it all ! people
talk as if a young fellow never kicked over the
traces before. And, come now, I put it to you
Don't you think that Tom came out of that
libel case very well, all things considered ? I'll
tell you what it is. Taking it altogether, I
think my cousin Tom has been confoundedly
ill-used. Lots of fellows have done the same
thing in hot youth, and have settled down into
respectable church-going citizens afterwards ;
and the chances are ten thousand to one that
Tom will do it, if he only gets the chance, poor
fellow. But just because he's run a bit wild

everybody's down on him like a hammer, and
I'm sorry for him — downright sorry, by gad, I
am!'

It is a curious provision of nature which fits
every animal to his surroundings. The arctic
bear grows white, the grasshopper is of the
colour of the field, fish take the tint of their
river bottom, and a persistent har comes to
believe in himself.

It may be noticed that Mark's conversational
style had adapted itself or been adapted
to that role of genial allowance which he
played. Without actually sinking to the level
of unsuspicious stupidity it had fallen from its
habitual height of cynical cleverness, and there
was a something half bucolic in his very
manner. Of course he knew at bottom exactly
what a pretender he was, but he had reached
the persistent liar's bourne of vague belief for
all that, and had touches of indignation and
pity when he pretended to have them. Without

something of the imaginative and self-prop
active power of an actor or a poet it is impossible
to be a good liar. The simulation of the
emotions awakens — not precisely the emotions
themselves, perhaps, but — an artistic, thin
reflex of them, and this it was which glowed
in the bosom of cousin Mark, and gave his
speeches an air of reality when he talked of
Tom. But when Mr. Irving leaves the stage,
though he has probably suffered all the woes
of the Prince of Denmark, and has broken ' the
recorders ' with some approach to real passion,
he has no grudge against Eosencrantz and
Guildenstem, and nurses no special brotherly
affection for Horatio. The woes, so keenly felt
that you and I have thrilled at them, are
packed away with the wardrobe of the tragic
prince, and the great actor sups — if he takes
supper — and blissfully forgets them all.

Mark used to watch within himself the
workings of this singular natural process, and

used to extract amusement and philosophical
edification from it ; but to be unhappy about
his own conduct, so long as it prospered, never
entered his mind.

But whilst he went on in growing ease of
mind and constant bodily comfort there was
trouble brewing for him in a quarter he had
forgotten to think about. The charming Signora
was once more out of employment.

It was characteristic of the Signora that she
felt Mark's desertion less bitterly and hated him
less intensely for it when she was prosperous
than whilst she was poor. As a matter of fact,
thousands of women have committed murder
on precisely the Signora's provocation, and
there were many times when she felt murderous
: times at which she would actually have
put an end to Mark if he had been in her way.
At these moments she would not have paused
to think of results, but she thought about them
afterwards, when the fit of rage had passed, and

told herself philosophically that the game was
not worth the candle. Only — if she could but
catch him on the hip — if she could but see her
way to a vengeance that would not be too

dangerous to herself His violent death

at her hands would leave a ghost behind, and
that would be too much to dare.

The Garrick was closed, and no new opening
declared itself. Whilst her engagement had
lasted she had a little more money than she
needed, and what was over and above her
wants she saved. For a week or two she made
applications hopefully, whenever she saw a
chance, and then for a week or two despondingly.
She was most sliding back into that
condition from which Tom Carroll had rescued
her ; and all her hope deferred, and all the
rebuffs she met, and all the misery she dreaded,
went naturally to swell Mark's account and to
feed the flame of her hatred for him. If anything
had occurred to make her independent of

VOL. II. s

the world, she would still have gone on hating-him,
but less fiercely. She might in a year or
two have sunk into a mere contempt for him ;
but care coming, and hunger looking near, she
set them all down to him, and her hate burned
hotly against him.

She had invested a good deal of her small
salary in what Mr. Wemmick called ' portable
property,' and now she began to find her way
to the pawnbroker's, poor thing !

If we reserved all our pity for those who-are
pleasant and good, we should have to
restrict our sympathies terribly.

In these straits, and before she reached
them, she had often thought of applying to Mr.
Bethesda, who might, for all she knev/, be
ready to start, or preparing to start, another
theatrical enterprise. But she did not like
Ix. Bethesda. She had not been bred to bea
squeamish woman, but she had — as every
(ly has — her own moral code, and Mr.

Bethesda fell short of it. She had had experience
of Mr. Bethesda behind the scenes, and
that good man's affections for the sex at large
had sickened her. Beggars, however, cannot
be choosers, and at last she sought the residence
of the late manager of the Garrick. That
gentleman's influence with the Brethren had
fallen away from a variety of causes, amongst
them being the establishment (by Bethesda)
of a Bible class for ladies of the ballet. No
man can escape calumny, and the Brethren had
cut Mr. Bethesda from their communion.

The Signora walked all the way from her
lodgings to Mr. Bethesda's house, and rang the
good man's bell. The good man himself
answered to her summons and gave her a
fatherly welcome. He had a rare eye for a good-looking
woman, and his tastes were catholic.

Tell me, sare,' said the Signora, ' is ze
Garrick again to be open ? '

I can't say,' returned Mr. Bethesda. ' If

I could find the money I should like to take
the house myself. You are looking for an
engagement, my dear ? '

I am looking for engagement,' said the
Signora.

Well, my dear,' said Mr. Bethesda, smiHng
and fatherlike, ' a handsome young lady like
you should find that very easy.'

It is not easy,' said the Signora, smiling
also. ' Can you tell me where to go ? ' If she
had any hope of getting anything from Mr.
Bethesda, she knew better than to try to get it
by wearing a sad face m his presence.

Pray sit down,' said Mr. Bethesda, ' and
let us talk things over.' He placed a chair for
the Signora and set another at the side of it.
She took her seat and he took his. ' It is to
be regretted,' he said, ' that Mr. Carroll's enterprise
at the Garrick broke down so soon.' He
took the Signora's unresisting hand. ' Much to
be regretted.'

'Very niiicb,' said the Sigiiora, in her pretty
foreign English.

But poor Mr. Carroll,' continued Bethesda,
slowly and distinctly, so that the lady should
understand him and not get tired of his gossip
too quickly, ' was very extravagant, and is quite
ruined, I am sorry to say.'

Poor young man,' said the lady, her fingers
itching to smack Mr. Bethesda's smile.

'Poor young man, indeed,' said Mr. Bethesda.
' I suppose you knew him very well ? '
The Signora shook her head. ' No ? ' asked
Bethesda, smiling again. ' You came to the
theatre like an old friend.'

I knew him,' said the Signora, ' a beetle.
Very beetle. I had seen him two cree times.'

Was that all, indeed ? ' asked the late
manager, still holding her hand and bending
forward as he spoke. ' May I ask where you
saw him — how you came to know him ? '

He come to my husband house,' said the

Signora. ' My husband was the great tenor,
Signor Malfi. He would come to my husband
house with Mr. Marco Carroll. Do you know
Mr. Marco?'

The Signora was the picture of innocence.
She was apparently unaware of Mr. Bethesda's
possession of her hand, or it might have been
an everyday thing to talk in that attitude ; and
her mention of Mark was made in the most
indifferent manner in the world, though she was
aware of a little inward tremor as she made it.
The tremor in degree was not unlike that a
maiden experiences when she thinks of her
lover in love's early days. In kind it bore a
resemblance, for extremes meet, and hate and
love are not always perfect opposites.

Slightly,' said Bethesda, edging his chair a
little nearer. ' Poor Mr. Carroll's fortune has
all fallen into Mr. Mark's hands.'

Ah ! ' said the Signora. ' How ? '

Mr. Bethesda related what he knew, and in

the course of this narrative got his chair nearer
still and set an arm about the Signora's waist.
The lady, anxious to hear all, made no objection
to his overtures, though her fingers tingled more
than ever.

And is Mr. Mark,' she said, catching at the
English form of the name with difficulty. ' Is
Mr. Mark a very good young man .^ ' Bethesda
had just told her for what Tom had been dismissed
by his father.

I believe,' said Bethesda, ' that Mr. Mark
is a very good young man indeed. Mr. Mark
is quite a guileless person, so I am informed.'

And is Mr. Carroll so very good also ? '
asked the Signora.

Oh,' said Bethesda, smilingly, ' Mr. Carroll
is quite a stern, unappeasable, Woman-father sort
of person.' The Signora did not understand
all this, but she caught the tone, and nodded
with an answering smile. Bethesda, who was
in a lover-like posture by this time, thought

the smile an odd one, and felt disconcerted
by it.

And,' said the Signora, still smiling, ' if
Mr. Carroll heard bad things of Mr. Mark he
would send him away also ? '

I should think so,' said Bethesda.

Oh, dear me,' said the Signora, in her
pretty foreign manner. ' What a hard work to
be for ever so good young man. Where does
he live, this good young man. The old one, is
he very rich l! '

Very ! ' said Bethesda.

Where does he live ? ' asked the Signora,
again.

Mr. Bethesda told her what lie kncAV, and
made tender play with his hands in the meantime,
squeezing the Signora's hand and waist.
She might have been a lay figure, she took all
this so quietly ; but when he had spoken she
arose and disengaged herself.

I shall go now,' she said. ' If you

hear of anything, will you let uie know,
sare ? '

Mi Bethesda, protesting that he would,
advanced with the obvious intention of kissing
the Signora. Her previous acquiescence in the
good man's tender approaches might have
encouraged one much more bashful than Bethesda,
and it was a surprise to him when, as he
smilingly proffered his salute, the Signora
slapped his face. It was not the encouraging
sort of box on the ear with which some ladies
beckon on their lovers, but laid on with a quick
and heavy hand. The wooer was so staggered
by it, mentally, and for a few seconds his head
rang so, that he let the lady go without a word
in answer to her cool ' Good day.'

When he followed the Signora was already
in the street. She smiled and nodded at him
across her shoulder, and went her way, leaving
the good man in a state of some depression and
bewilderment. She, on the other hand, wore

an expression altogether different from that
with which she had approached Mr. Bethesda's '
house. Her head was erect, her step elastic,
her eyes smiled, and there was a fine glow of
colour on her southern cheek. For she saw
clear before her what she had longed for now
for many and many a weary day, and she
marched to it as a hungry man walks to a well-finished
table. If the elder Carroll had dismissed
his only son on grounds so slight, he
would be scarcely likely to have mercy on a
nephew against whom she could prove so much.
She would go down and denounce Mark and
rejoice in his ruin. It would be cheaper than
killing him (that was altogether too feared a
joy for her to snatch at — she had thought of it
too long), and it would be a vengeance more
complete and lasting. With all her hunger of
hate for Mark she had a sense of justice too.
To her mind, naturally enough, Mark was the
greatest villain in the world, and she could

conceive of nothing worthy to be matched with
■ his perfidy. The Signora was a simple-minded
person, and did not bother herself with intellectual
subtleties of any sort, or she might have
called to mind the fact that if anybody else had
suffered by it she would have thought Mark's
perfidy a trifle. But your toothache is always
worse (to you) than mine ; and I am never so
persuaded of the solemnity of the problem presented
for solution by the criminal classes as I
am when I discover that my pocket has been
picked. That which is nearest touches us most,
and our own affairs are generally closer to us
than those of other people.

It never occurred to her how easily Mark
might turn her attack, or how hard it might be
to get into places in which her denunciation of
him would serve her turn. She walked on full
of hate and hope, thinking of her monetary
resources and planning to sell this and the
other lately acquired bit of finery, to make a

purse for the journey. Beyond her revenge
lier thoughts did not carry her, and this alone
might have seemed to make her dangerous if
Mark had known of it. For without one conscious
thought about the matter she was burning
her boats, and if Mark could parry the one
attack she had in mind that momentary success
would make things worse for him.

The Signora's walk had given her an appetite,
which she was disposed to fight for
economy's sake. She was dreadfully thirsty
also, and the sight of a dairy shop, exquisitely
clean and neat in its arrangements, was pleasant
to her. A glass of milk would at once assuage
thirst and fortify her system, whilst it would
only cost a penny. So the Signora entered,
and found herself face to face with Azubah
Moore, who was tranquilly stitching away nth
a book in her lap behind the white-scoured
counter, with its clean glasses and glittering
measures.

My dear ! ' said the Signora, in pleased
amazement, ' Iioav do you do ? '

Azubali, Avitli no very exuberant professions
of delight, arose and shook hands with her.
The Signora began to question and to chatter
in her foreign lively way, and liquid foreign
English, Had Azubah taken a place here ?
Had she determined to sing no more ? How
had she been doing, and what had she been
doing since the Signora had last seen her?
Azubah answered quietly that this was her
father's shop, that she was still studying music,
and that she was very well indeed. The Italian
woman got her glass of milk, and sat down at
the counter to talk. She had tried to befriend
Azubah, and that for one thing made
her feel friendly ; and in the time of her beginning
of distress Azubah had been sympathetic.
Altogether the Signora was delighted at this
encounter, and for the moment she forgot her
hatred, and her heart rested. She chatted

about her troubles, and told how poor she had
been when she obtained an engagement at the
Garrick, and how kindly the lessee had behaved
to her. It was natural that she should be pleased
to boast an acquaintance with the lessee, whom
she had known in her better days before Tito
went mad and mistrusted her.

He is ruin, now,' said the Signora, ' and I
am sorry. He was never wise, but he was
good and nice. It was sad for him that he
should ever go to the Magatherium that night
you sang there.'

Why ? ' asked Azubah.

The whole truth, or very nearly the whole
truth came out. The Signora had told the tale
pretty often already to her fellow chorus-singers
at the Garrick since the beginning of the libel
proceedings, and the renewed allusion to the
leading article in the ' Mirror.' But Azubah
had never seen the ' Mirror,' and had never
heard a word of Mr. Moss's action for assault

until this moment. She had many and many a
time thought of Tom Carroll as he had stepped
in between that terrible little Hebrew and herself,
and had remembered how noble he had
looked, and with what strength and courage he
had acted. Tom himself had never been proud of
having thrown Mr. Moss downstairs, but Azubah
had looked on the deed with reverent admiration,
and had never dreamed that such awful consequences
could grow out of it. She began to
feel as if she personally were responsible for the
ruin which had fallen upon Tom Carroll, and
so much worship and gratitude and pity filled
her heart that it felt like to break. She clasped
her hands and cried out more than half-unconsciously
—

Mr. Mark was there ! Oh, why couldn't
he tell his uncle how it happened ? He would
know everything.'

Ah, my dear,' said the Signora, nodding
her head three or four times, 'Mr. Mark is

going to have the fortune. He will do anything
but good to his cousin.'

Oh, I am sure you are wrong,' cried the
girl. 'I have known him since I was quite a
little child.'

I have known him, too,' said the Signora.
I know many things of him. He is badman,
my dear. There is no man more bad in
England. I know. I know. I know.'

How do you know ? ' asked Azubah. ' How
can you know ? '

My business ! ' said the Signora, smiling.
I know.' She nodded her head again, two or
three times, in a curiously threatening way,
which the girl was altogether at a loss to
understand. ' He is very happy now, Mistare
Mark. Very well. Wait. A week. Not
more than a week.'

With this she laid a penny upon the
counter, which the girl pushed back again. The
Signora was not above economy at this time,

and returned the coin to her purse with
another nod and a strange smile. She kissed
Mary across the counter, and said ' Goodbye,'
and walked off towards her vengeance. When
you love or hate, the Avhole world is naturally
full of the object of your thoughts, and it did
not at all surprise her to find two people on
one day who made Mark the theme of their
talk.

Azubah, sitting with idle hands from which
her work had fallen, thought over the revelation
the Signora had brought her. Unstinted
admiration and profound pity were in her heart,
and when a girl begins to lavish these two upon
a young man, it is easy to guess on what road
she is travelling. Azubah had not far to
travel, but she was a stranger to the road, and
did not recognise the bourne that lay before
her.

VOL. II.

CHAPTEE XXIII.

Moore received the five-pound note lie had
asked for and sent back another in exchange
for it. It soothed him to get it, for he had
guessed the truth about Tom's financial position,
and now he was sure that his guesses had been
mistaken, or had, at least, flown further than
the mark.

Tom, of course, if he had had the choice,
would rather have died than have broken down
as he did in Baretti's presence, but his breakdown
did him good after all. Lording seemed
fairly estranged now. Mary sent him no
message of hope ; he was ruined and everybody
knew it ; he had even got bread this last
two days by a subterfuge of which — though

it was not very shameful — he felt ashamed.
Bethesda found a curious difficulty in realising
the properties at the Garrick, which might at
least have staved off starvation for a month or
two. They had cost two or three thousand
pounds, and were worth something still, and
the unexpired lease of the theatre was supposed
to be worth a thousand, yet he could not
touch a penny piece. But it was Baretti's
friendship, and not these things, grievous
as they were, which broke the youngster's
self-restraint and gave him the blessed relief
of tears.

He was less ashamed of himself than he
would have been if he had cried in the presence
of an Englishman, and Baretti saw nothing
shameful in the whole matter, but wiped his
own eyes unaffectedly, and without a 113^ attempt
at the disguise of his emotions, i'm pushed
him from the room, and being iilone, pulled"
himself together and cleared av\i. the traces
T 2

of his tears. Then, with a guilty air, half
hang-dog and half defiant, he rejoined the little
Italian and began to smoke moodily.

Carroll,' said the painter, ' let us talk of
your affairs.' Tom puffed away with an expression
almost sullen. ' You weill finish opera
number two ? '

I don't know,' said Tom, ' I think I shall
go and fiddle in the streets. I suppose one
could make a living that way, if it is worth
while making a living at all. I'm not quite
sure that it is.'

My troubles were less than yours,' said
Baretti, ' but it was you who taught me how
to live them down. You will teach yourself
the same lesson. You are too proud to let any
man say that you gave up the fight because it
went against you.'

Tom smoked on and gave no sign of having

"heard this, but it was put in just the right way

to touch him, and when Baretti had kept

silence for a minute or two the young fellow
rose and shook himself.

Nobody shall say I threw up the sponge,'
he said, doggedly. 'No, I'll fight till I go
under, for good and all.'

I know that,' said Baretti. ' It is your
nature. You cannot help fighting in such a
case. Let us lay the plan of the campaign.
In the first place, Carroll,' the painter rose to
say this, and, with his old gesture, laid both
hands on his friend's shoulders and looked up
into his face, his own lambent eyes gleam
with affection and appeal — ' In the first place,
Carroll, there is to be no more of to-night's
work as long as there is a pound at the bank
belonging to either of us.'

I can't be dependent upon you, Baretti,'
returned Tom.

No,' said Baretti, ' you love your pride
better than you love me. Between friends
there is no giving and taking — everything is in

common. Understand, Carroll. Whatever is
mine is yours, and if you do not take it at your
need we are not friends any longer, and you
are a humbug and a pretender and no true
man and honest gentleman. If you refuse me
I swear to heaven I will draw every penny I
have and throw it in the Thames, and never
speak to you again.'

Tom laughed at this singular resolution, ina
forced and unreal way, but he took the two
hands Baretti stretched out and shook them
both.

Very well,' he said, ' we won't put you to
such extremities as that. I can make a having
and there is something to come out of the fire
yet. And perhaps in the end even my father
may come to reason.'

He will never come to reason whilst your
cousin Mark is at Trench House,' said Baretti*^
I speak in kindness, Carroll. Cherish no
delusive hopes. In the pursuit of art there is

a future before you, but you must not demoralise
yourself by fancies which are doomed
beforehand to disappointment. Mark is your
enemy, Carroll.'

Don't talk of my cousin Mark in that
way,' said Tom. ' I am getting a little tired
of these charges against my cousin Mark. I
never knew an honest fellow in my life, and
I've suffered something from scandal on my
own side, and I won't listen to it

Well,' said Baretti, ' there are plenty of
assurances of Mark's friendship in his own
handwriting in that writing-desk of yours, and
you have come to a time when you may very
fairly try them. Then suppose you see your
cousin Mark and put him to the test. He will
not part with a penny for your sake.'

I shan't ask him,' said Tom, shortly*

At the bottom of your heart you know
him as well as I do,' cried Baretti.

A little better,' Tom answered.

You dare not ask him,' said the painter,
with his hands abroad. ' You dread lest he
should prove a villain.'

I know perfectly well,' said Tom, ' that he
would prove nothing of the sort.'

He knows of your losses by the newspapers,'
said Baretti, declaiming indignantly,
and does he write from the home he usurps
to offer you a helping hand ? Why does he
pretend to be advancing your cause ? ' he
demanded, with a sudden coldness of voice,
and eyes half closed. ' Because he is plotting
behind your back, and wishes not to be suspected.
Who set that libel about ? Who but
your cousin Mark ? Carroll — I am indignant
at your infatuation.'

Baretti,' said Tom, moved by several contradictory
emotions which he did not care just
then to analyse, ' I will disprove this foolish
charge of yours, before I begin to be ass enough
to believe in it. I will go dovv^n and see Mark

and tell him what a hole I am in, and you
shall see how he will act.' After all Tom
would rather borrow of Mark, with whom he
had been like a brother all his life, than even
of Baretti, and Mark in point of fact owed him
a good few hundreds, and would only be repaying
a little out of his abundance. That
was one reflection. Another, which was in flat
contradiction to it, was that he would like to
be sure of cousin Mark, and in a certain case
to have it out with him ; and yet another was
that he had it in his power to clear Mark's
character from an aspersion even viler than
any that had been cast upon his own.

He sat down and wrote a brief note to
Mark, telling him that two days later he would
be at the King's Arms Hotel in the county
town, and would be greatly obliged if Mark
would meet him there. There could surely be
no shame in asking Mark, to whom he had
lent so much, to restore a little of it, and yet

the impracticable, impractical young man
blushed as he wrote, and had more than half a
mind to throw the note into the fire. Wishing
it unwritten, and feeling sore with himself for
having at last taken up Baretti's challenge, he
walked out with the painter and dropped his
letter into a postal pillar, and then returning,
pencilled a few hues to Moore, enclosed the
promised five pounds with them in ^n envelope,
found a commissionaire, despatched him, and
went to supper.

He thought it curious, now that he had
money to sup elsewhere, that he could find the
heart to order the meal at home again. He
had paid two months' rent in advance to oblige
his landlady long ago, and had always kept in
advance afterwards — after his own business
fashion, which was to pay everybody twice
over if possible — and he had not felt afraid to
occupy the rooms for a week or two, but he
had not been able to find courage to order so

much as a breakfast since his pockets were
emptied. But now he began to be a little
hopeful again. Mark would let him have fifty
pounds at least, and he would make that last
him for three or four months by dint of strict
economy. In the meantime Bethesda could be
pricked into action, and the theatrical properties
and the lease must go at a sacrifice. Then he
would be out of harm's way, and could at least
dine every afternoon, whilst he wrote opera
number two, or took to playing at concerts, or
gave lessons, or prepared to hold body and
soul together in some way. It did not seem
very well worth while to hold body and soul
together under the conditions, apart from the
fighting instinct in him.

On the following evening he took train to
the county town, and got as far as Birmingham
without adventure. At the railway station
there an odd thing happened, for he ran full
against Signor Malfi, who was walking along

the platform at a great pace talking volubly in
his native language to a bearded friend. Tom's
wonder at his presence there was dissipated by
the sight of a placard on which was blazoned
in red and black letters the words ' Theatre
Royal. Italian Opera.' Beyond a doubt the
Signor was there in a professional capacity.
The Englishman looked absently after him, and
noticed something peculiar in his gait — a swift,
sidelong motion of the body, and a certain set
carriage of the head — as if the Signor were
anxious for what he Alas saying to be heard,
and at the same time anxious to keep an eye on
some person in front. The bearded man got
into the train, Malfi shook hands with him at
the window, and Tom forgot all about them.
His own affairs were enough for him to think
about just then.

He passed a restless night, and on the morrow
he got up and awaited Mark. Mark did not
appear, having other fish to fry at this juncture.

The village of Overliill was a little startled
and surprised by the .sudden appearance in its
midst of a nameless young woman, gorgeously
apparelled and of evident foreign extraction.
She did not seem to know anybody in the
place, and did not seem to have any business
there. So far as she spoke English at all, she
spoke it fluently (though accent and idiom
were alike foreign enough to be remarkable in
so small a place as Overhill), but the speech of
the natives seemed altogether incomprehensible
to her. The people at the inn had at first
been inclined to refuse her sleeping room, for
she had no luggage, but she had smilingly set
down a sovereign as guarantee for her own
good intentions.

The foreign lady discovered that Trench
House was the residence of Mr. Carroll. She
ascertained also, in spite of the conversational
difficulties which beset her, that Mr. Carroll's
nephew, Mr. Mark, was at this time staying at

Overhill, and she manifested a good deal of
interest in the house and grounds. On the
evening of her arrival she entered the private
grounds of Trench House — the lodge-gates
being open and unguarded — and sat for half
an hour on a rustic bench which commanded
a view of the illuminated windows of the
dining-room. There were two people at table,
an elderly man and a young one, and a butler,
rather sturdier and broader shouldered than
his tribe commonly are, stood at the sideboard,
or occasionally moved about the room in the
discharge of his functions. So far as the
foreign young person could observe, the
younger man was exceedingly deferential to the
elder. When she had sat out her half-hour or
thereabouts, she arose and walked back down
the gravel drive, and through the lodge-gates,
still unnoticed, and returned to the village
inn.

Naturally, all her points were canvassed

that evening in the bar-room, and the stationmaster,
who happened to be present, contributed
to the discussion the fact that a bearded
person who spoke imperfect English had arrived
by the same train, had watched the foreign
lady into the little omnibus of the inn with
obvious interest, had despatched a curiously
worded telegram, and after lingering on the
station platform for a couple of hours had
gone back again without the transaction of any
business whatever. The telegram had been
written in Italian, and had contained two
words only. The station-master, making a
shot at the meaning of the first word, supposed
the lady's name to be Ella, but declined on
professional grounds to reveal the nature of
the message. He was pretty sure, however,
that the bearded person's sole business was to
watch the lady and to see where she alighted.
He was the more confirmed in this belief by
the fact that the bearded person had arrived

at Overhill without a ticket from the county
town, and had paid the fare on arrival.

Not to be unbearably mysterious, the
foreign lady was no other than the charming
Signora, and the bearded person was actually
a friend of Malfi's engaged in the same company,
but out of the cast for that particular day.

When Signor Malfi got down to Birmingham
he knew vaguely that he was nearer Mr. Mark
Carroll's abiding place than he had been when
in London. Hate is just as good as love for
keeping the object of it before the mind's eye,
and there scarcely passed an hour in which
Signor Malfi did not think of Mark Carroll.
It did him good, however, and greatly soothed
him to believe that Caterina could be trusted
to pay off the score which had been raised by
her own infidelity. His supposed propinquity
to Mark's abiding place brought Mark into
mind more than ever, and a sudden sight of the
Signora on a railway platform had given him

a new and a terrible notion. The Signora looked
prosperous, yet had no baggage with her, as
she would have had had she been far from
home. She was smiling when he had seen her,
and had seemed in quite a festal humour, and
the Signor's idea was that she and Mark were
simply under shelter together somewhere in
the neighbourhood. If that were so he had
been more than commonly well fooled, and he
was disposed to be more than commonly hurt
by the fancy. Caterina's threats against Mark
had sounded real enough, and he had believed
in them. It might have been reasonable to
believe in them now. and to suppose that the
fair Signora was on the way to execute them,
but Malfi's mind was poisoned by jealousy, and
he was not in the mood to think of what was
or was not reasonable.

He received his friend's message and he
panted to be able to follow. It never crossed him
to think that Caterina had gone down for venn

II. U

glance. It only occurred to him that he had
been doubly and trebly fooled. He looked forward
with a shaky, terrible delight to the hour
when he would be able to get away from the
duties which held him and denounce and curse
them both. His programme went no further. But
though he was on pleasure bent, he had a frugal
mind, and he did not care to risk the loss of his
engagement. He stayed out the morning rehearsal,
therefore, and being out of the cast for the
evening, he took the mid-day train for Overhill.
Mark got Tom's letter, and laughed over it
to himself. He put a ten-pound note in his
purse, and arranged to split his little all with
his cousin. Mr. Carroll the elder had opened
a banking account for him and treated him in
all respects as he had treated Tom aforetime,
but Mark did not see his way to a mention of
that circumstance. He told his uncle that he
was going into town to see after a gun which
had suffered some trifling mishap and had been
repaired.

I am in need of exercise,' said Mr, Carroll
the elder. *• I will walk with you to the railway
station.'

Mark bustled about in an affectionate, half-reverential
bonhomie, and got the elder man's
hat and walking-stick. Mr. Carroll the elder
liked that sort of service, and was pleased ; but
Mark took it as a matter of course to open
doors for him and the like, as if he had been a
marquis of the old regime and Mark a sort of
privileged upper servant.

The two set out together, and it hit Mark
like a hammer to see the Signora walking
calmly along the one street of the village as if
she had lived in the place all her life. She
smiled when she saw Mark and recognised him
by a mere drooping of her eyelids, which she
made to act in place of a nod. The ready
gentleman was for the space of one heart beat
as white as marble, and for the space of another
or so he blushed like the red, red rose. His
Tj 2

foot tripped, once only, and he walked on as
calm to outward appearance as before. The
lady saw these signs and smiled again. She
was going to crush him and ruin him, but she
was not so poor an amateur in revenge as todo
it all at once. She followed him slowly
and at ease, accommodating her pace to the
solemn, ponderous, and somewhat gouty step
of the elder gentleman. She recognised him
also, and she had noticed anew the deferential
character of Mark's manner towards him. She
either read in the elder's face or translated into
it out of her own hopes a certain inflexible,
dogmatic look, which argued well for her
scheme, she thought. So she walked behind
her victim, well pleased, and he glancing round
casually saw her smile and cursed her, and
went on talking in his own charming way for
his uncle's pleasure.

It befell that Mr. Carroll found himself a
little fatigued before much more than half the

walk to the railway station was accomplished.
It had been at his own command and expense
that the line was carried so far from Trench
House, and he was willing to suffer for it, but
to-day he had no need to go so far. "When he
parted from Mark he passed the Signora, and
for all his grandeur and stateliness he could
not avoid looking at her, once for curiosity,
and once for a curious, extorted kind of admiration.
She quite realised the elder Carroll's
idea of a fine woman, and when he had fairly
passed her he arranged his gold-rimmed eyeglasses
and turned for another glance at her.
It discomfited him curiously to find that she
had tiu-ned to look at him and that Mark had
at the same moment turned to look at her.
What business had she to look at him ? and
what business had Mark to look at strange and
foreign young women ? He walked with added
dignity after this.

Mark rejoiced that his uncle had left him.

because he had now a free field in which to
tackle this young woman. What did she want ?
To extort money ? Or to ruin an old and
faithless lover? Or was she here by some
curious chance and not by intention ? He resolved
to know, and that right early.

When he was persuaded that Mr. Carroll
was fully out of sight he took a divergent
course and strolled through a field or two.
Then, lighting a cigar, he sat down upon a stile
and awaited the Signora's coming. To his
immense disgust she passed the first stile over
which he had climbed, giving him a sweeping
curtsey as she went.

Damn the woman,' said Mark. ' She
thinks I am afraid of her, and wants to play
cat and mouse does she ? Very well, my lady.
I suppose I'd better have it over.'

He arose and walked briskly back into the
road, and there was the Signora placidly
strolling ahead of him. He followed, and came

up with her easily. The road was quite clear
and there was no great fear of being observed
in her company.

My charming Caterina,' he said, in her
own lanjxuaire, as he came to her. 'It is a
pleasant surprise to see you here.'

Is it not ? ' she asked him, without turning
her head.

It is, indeed.'

'I am so glad to please you,' said the
Signora, smiling. 'You know that I made
you a promise quite a long time ago. I am
here to keep it. I have heard what a very
good man your uncle is. I have heard that he
is so very good that he could not even tolerate
the poor, stupid innocent your cousin. I am
here to tell him what a good young man you are,
and to help to ^^ you in your place, dear friend.'

'Thank you, my Caterina,' said Mark,
suavely. ' Shall I tell you something you do
not guess ? '

If you please,' said Caterina, smiling still.

'You are the cast-off mistress of my cousin,
and your object here is to extort money from
me by threats. The first policeman we meet
will see you out of the village to oblige me,
and to avoid scandal he will do it quietly.'

She stood still in the road to look at him,
and there was no vestige of her late smile in
her eyes.

You see, Caterina,' said Mark, ' that it is
scarcely worth while to play with me.'

I suppose,' she said, quietly, and in a sort
ot wonder at him, ' that you have told lies
about your cousin all along.'

Assuredly,' said Mark. ' I shall tell lies
about you if you make it necessary, and I shall
be believed. That is the way of the world.
Your injured innocence remains uncredited,
poor Caterina, and my practised villany once
more succeeds.'

Marco,' said the Signora, ' you misunderstand.

I told you that I was dangerous. You
do not know how dangerous I am.'

It was only within the last minute or two
that she herself had begun to guess that.

My good child said Mark, ' I am not in
the least afraid of you, and I am not Likely to
be. I thought it well to see you at once and
have the thing over. You sang in my cousin's
theatre, and everybody down here is willing to
believe anything of him. I am very sorry that
he has sunk so low as to send you here to
extort money from me for his own necessities,
but if I am forced to say so I shall say so, and
there is an end. I shall be believed. Nobody
will understand what you try to say in answer,
and if they did understand you, nobody would
believe you.'

She felt foiled and desperate. There was a
diabolical reason in this cool villany which
staggered her. Why should people believe
her ? And how should they understand her ?

Marco,' she said, quickening her pace to
keep up with him, for he had begun to walk
on as if the conference had ended, ' Marco, you
will drive me to kill you if I cannot be revenged
in another way. Take your choice.'

If you are not gone in two hours said
Mark, tranquilly, ' I shall report your threats
to the police and shall order your removal.
Silly child. I don't want to hurt you, but I
won't have you in my way.'

She walked on after him downcast and
lowering in look.

I cannot go away,' she said, after a
while, in a tone which seemed to Mark's ears to
admit that she was vanquished, ' I have not
money enough to go back with.'

Well, as for that,' said Mark, ' I am not
so hard that I will not help you.' He thought
of the ten pound note in his purse, but Mark
never liked to part with money, and there was
a partial claim upon that already. ' You may

stay till evening. A train leaves at eight
o'clock. Do you see that little copse? Do
you see the white road across the fields, which
leads from it to the railway station .^ Meet me
there — near the great tree at the edge — do you
see it ? — and I will give you enough to carry you
back. For once I will deal mercifully with you,
but if you come again I will do that which will
make you sorry till you che. Good day, Caterina.'

He walked on slowly, and she turned as if
broken, and when he looked after her she was
crawling along dispiritedly with hanging head .
Had he known her thoughts he would have
been less satisfied.

For all his outer coolness he had been so
absorbed in speech with her that he had
neither seen nor heard the departure of the
train, though the warning bell and whistle had
sounded clearly, and the train had gone
steaming over the winding rails through halt
a mile of open country.

Too late, Mr. Mark,' said the station-master.
That's a fine lassie yonder, sir, if you'll excuse
me saying so. There's nobody down here,
though, so it seems, that talks her lingo. I
suppose you understand those outlandish
tongues, having travelled, sir?'

Mark had been seen then in the act of
asking with her. Well, his lie was ready.

'You can hold your tongue, can't you,
Leggatt ? ' he said, looking round in a confidential,
secret way. ' You've heard of my
poor cousin's doings up in town. That's one
of the painted trollops that sang at his theatre,
and she's down here on the look-out for him,
poor beggar. I've promised her a pound or
two to go away quietly and not to bother
him.'

Poor Mr. Thomas,' said the station-master.
He used to seem as good a sort as ever broke
bread. Heave brought his pigs to a baddish
market, now, though, haven't he ? '

Mark assented sorrowfully, and walked
away. Perhaps it would be as well not to
leave Overhill to-day. The Signora might
recover audacity in his absence. The went back
and explained that he had missed the train
and he stayed indoors all day.

Tom, meanwhile, waited and waited. There
was no answer to his letter, and it appeared
as if no notice were to be taken of it. Towards
evening his suspicions of cousin Mark jpegan to
side with Baretti's, and he incontinently took
train to Overhill. He would make no disturbance
there, but he would have the truth
out of Mark at least.

As he alighted from the train the stationmaster
saw him and saluted. The village
people knew him, of course, and most of them
sheered off from him, though one or two hats
were raised.

'Can I speak to you just a second, Mr.
Thomas ? ' said the station-master. * I wouldn't

be seen up village to-night if I was you, if
you'll excuse me, sir. There's that foreign
young person, sir, down here, sir, and I gather
from Mr. Mark that there'll be a row if she
sees you.'

CHAPTEE XXIV.

Tom looked With a changeful countenance at
the station-master.

What do you mean by saying that you
gather that from my cousin .^ ' he asked, after
a pause which was remarkable for its length
and for the indications of emotion in Tom's
face whilst his silence lasted. ' Tell me what
you gather from my cousin Mark.'

Well, sir,' returned the station-master
defensively, 'I spoke in friendship, sir, and I
trust there'll be no ill-will because I dared to
mention it. Mr. Mark deposes that the foreign
person is looking for you, sir, and he seems to
think that if she sees you the fat will be in the
fire.'

Why ? ' asked Tom, briefly.

Well, sir,' said the man, with a laugh,
awkward and embarrassed, ' that's for you to
say.'

I want to understand this, if you please,
Leggatt,' said Tom, grasping his stout walking-cane
with both hands, and speaking with some
difficulty and slowness. ' What has my cousin
told you ? '

Well, sir,' returned the station-master, ' in
round English, he told me nothing that he
ought to be ashamed of. I don't know about
your share in the matter.'

What did he tell you? ' asked Tom, again.

Well, sir,' said the man, with a touch of
virtuous indignation, ' he did say that the
young woman was one of the trollops that
Overhill's heard too much of. I'm sorry I took
the trouble to speak about the matter, sir.
She's in the village, if you like to face her.'

It's curious, Leggatt,' said Tom, ' how easy

it seems for everybody to believe evil of a man.
I must see this young lady, and find out who

she is at least. Tell me one thing. Has

Never mind. Good day, Leggatt.'

Tom swung out of the station, and the
master watched him as he walked towards the
village. The lad was reckless by this time.
Mark's desertion of him seemed definite enough,
and though Tom coidd not as yet grasp the
details of the new situation, it was plain that
his cousin was maligning him, and plain that
Baretti's suspicions had all along been well
founded. Tom thought of the old days when
he had been prosperous, and had stretched out
a free hand to Mark. He remembered the
countless favours he had done him, and the
affection he had always felt for him, and every
memory made Mark's villany the blacker.

I shall kill him if I see him now,' he said
to himself, and slackening his pace he began to
walk indeterminately.

VOL. II. X

Even at this time the habit of his whole
life and the bent of his whole nature asserted
themselves, and he began to seek explanations
and to cling to excuses for Mark. It was not
altogether impossible that Mark's faith in him
had been destroyed by the constant rumours
about him. Other people had fallen away from
him, and Mark need after all have been guilty
of no such wilful crime as Tom's thoughts imputed
to him. Mark and Tom were such old
sailing companions. Almost anything seemed
more credible than that Mark should have deliberately
cut the ties of countless favours, of
friendship, and of blood, to leave the cousinly
craft adrift. That he should fire into it began
to seem hardly believable at all.

If I find it all true,' said Tom to himself,
a hundred times. Then he would grasp his
stout walking-stick more tightly, and his nerves
would tingle, and his cheeks flush and eyes
glitter. 'Mark's like the rest of them, and

can't keep this faith in an old friend against
scandal.' That reflection was only sorrowful,
and carried no rage with it like the other.
And sorrowful as it was it had a little comfort
in it. You would rather your friend should
wrongfully suspect you of evil than that he
should deliberately turn traitor.

Now came still evening on, and Tom Carroll
was yet walking indeterminately about the
fields and lanes. He was half disposed to go
back and leave Mark alone, and half disposed
to walk boldly up to the house of his birth and
demand to see Mark there and have it out,
when chance, which decides for so many of us,
decided for him. Cousin Mark heaved insight,
tranquilly smoking a cigar and twirling a
walking-cane. Tom rose from the stile on
which for the last minute* or two he had been
sitting, and went forward to meet him. Mark
caught sight of him as he rose, and for a second
the ready young's man foot lingered on the

X 2

road, and his swift faculty of invention struck
out all round in search for any impromptu
weapon of defence.

My dear fellow,' he said, hastening forward,
and taking Tom by the hand, ' don't you think
you re acting somewhat precipitately in coming
here ? '

It may turn out that I am a little late
rather than a little precipitate,' Tom answered.
Mark's hand thrown towards him in vigorous
welcome had mechanically drawn his own to
meet it, but Mark felt no answering pressure
to his own honest grip.

What do you mean, Tom ? ' he asked.
There was a tone of wounded friendship in his
voice.

Let me ask you one or two questions,*
Tom said, quietly, though his voice shook.

Willingly, my dear fellow,' answered
Mark. ' Shall we walk the while .? '

He put an arm through his cousin's and

made a forward step, but Tom stood stock still.
Mark permitted no change to reach his face,
though his companion's presence there was
more than annoying, and in a moment might
be dangerous. They were within twenty yards
of the Signora's try sting-place, and within a
few minutes of her time.

I want to ask you, to begin with,' said
Tom, huskily and slowly, ' if you have lost all
your faith in the professions of innocence I
have made to you ? '

What a question ! ' said Mark, turning his
face upon him in surprise. 'Good God, my
dear fellow. No. A thousand times No.'

He made another movement to step forward
and again Tom stood immobile and
irresponsive.

'You believe,' said Tom, speaking more
huskily than before, and withdrawing his arm
from Mark's so that he might stand squarely in
front of him. ' You believe now, as you have

always professed to believe, that I have been
maligned P '

I don't merely believe it, Tom,' said Mark,
I know it.'

Then,' asked Tom, laying a sudden hand
upon the lappet of Mark's coat, ' why do you
spread the scandal ? '

I spread the scandal ? ' said the other, with
an air of indignant amazement and remonstrance.
' What absurdity is this ? '

Leggatt, the station-master,' said Tom,
with a tightening grip upon Mark's coat,
gathers from my cousin Mark that one of the
young women of whom Overhill has heard too
much in connection with my name is down
here to look after me.'

Leggatt,' said Mark, ' is a drunken liar.'

Thank you,' said Tom. ' Come and tell
him so in my presence, Mark.'

Mark reached out both hands quietly, and
took Tom pretty firmly by the shoulders.

I shan't do that, Tom.'

Why not ? ' Tom demanded.

I can't afford to lose the confidence of the
village people.' The hand upon the lappet of
Mark's coat so far relaxed that Mark by the
mere act of sliding his hands from Tom's
shoulders to his arms removed it. The two
were standing face to face, and were looking in
each other's eyes. Tom's face was flushed,
and Mark's was white, but the white face was
the steadier of the two.

Do you mean,' said Tom, ' that you cannot
deny it in his presence ? '

Quite right, Tom,' answered Mark, entwining
his gloved fingers firmly in the sleeves of
his cousin's coat. ' You have found me out, as
there was always a chance of your doing, and
things have gone on so well with me that I
don't much care. My footing is pretty safe
now, and nothing you can say or do can shake
me. But if I give one of the villagers the

chance to say I am a liar, I pull down my
own stronghold.' Tom stood quite still, breathing
hard and slow, and looked Mark in the
eyes. Mark looked back at him and spoke like
a victor to an enemy. ' It was likely enough
that you would have to know one day or other.
You know now, and I suppose we declare open
warfare.'

Mark's grip on his cousin's sleeve was firm
and hard, and he waited with wary eye and
every muscle ready. He could guess partly at
the rage and wonder and contemp which
chased each other in Tom's mind and were
faintly mirrored in his face.

You infamous scoundrel,' cried Tom.
You villain.' Mark looked at him steadfastly,
and Tom, making a backward movement of
aversion and disdain, found himself pinioned in
his cousin s grasp. ^ Let me go,' he cried. ' You
infamous hound.'

Mark, with his eyes steadfastly fixed on

Tom's, released him. There was no threat of
immediate personal violence in the manner of
the man whom he had wronged, and to Mark
that was satisfactory. He knew the emotions
to be complex things, and he had expected that
Tom would find his chief solace in contempt, orin
what he supposed to be contempt — a mental
condition founded chiefly — according to Mark's
analysis — on hate and envy.

I begin to know now said Tom, who
might have been the detected villain of the two,
he looked so disturbed by contrast with the
other. ' I have heard you describe yourself
often enough. But I never thought that a man
could be such a dastard.' Mark held him with
a glittering eye and kept silent. ' You think
you have won ? You think you are safely
seated ? ' Not a word from Mark, not a sign.
Only that persistent, unchanging, watchful
glance, cool and wary and wicked. 'An
honest man's contempt is too slight a weapon

to pierce that callous hide of yours ? You
hound

When the blow came Mark was ready for
it. Tom's stick lashed out straight at his face,
and Mark parried, like the skilful player he
was. But Tom's rage, which might have
wreaked itself in one stroke, if the one stroke
had taken effect, carried him beyond all restraint
when he found it intercepted, and casting
away his stick he hurled himself bodily
upon Mark, and took him by the throat. As
quick as lightning Mark crooked him by the
heel and fell upon him.

Don't fight like a wild beast, my good
fellow,' said Mark, regaining his feet. ' I don't
want to hurt you, and you can't hurt me. I
could kill you in five minutes, and if you have
a grain of sense left you know that.' J

Tom rose a little dazed and staggered. The
evening was closing rapidly, but there was still
light enough for a man to see to fight by, and

he rushed at Mark once more, but only to be
met by a crashing smack half on the jaw and
half on the neck. This brought him to his
hands and knees sick and dizzy and trembling,
and for a moment he could not rise.

'You can see,' said Mark, ' what an infernal
fool you are. I don't want to hurt you, but I
can't stand still and be mauled, and if you will
have it you will have it. I always knew you
were a fool,' he added, coolly, with air and
voice of contemptuous expostulation, ' but, hang
it all, can't you see what an ass you're making
of yourself now ? It's natural enough that you
should want to give me a hiding, I dare say ;
but Well, if you will, you will.'

Tom was up again and making for him once
more. Mark could just see his gleaming eyes
in the dusk, and wondered if his own shone so.
The whole affair was eminently distasteful no
doubt, but he was quite quiet about it. It began
to be clear that Tom meant to go on trying

as long as lie had the power to make an effort,
and the conflict, one-sided as it was, promised
to last some time. By-and-by there would bethe
Signora as a witness to it, and that odd
sense of fun which Mark owned made him
laugh at the fancy that the lady might take the
aggressor's side.

That would import a new interest,' said
Mark, silently and to himself. Tom saw the
laugh in his cousin's face (for Mark faced the
waning light) and somehow the sudden deep
hatred born of the other's cynicism and villany
seem to cool him. Mark boxed splendidly, and
Tom was but a poor opponent for him, though
he was not altogether ignorant, and was altogether
fearless. There was one idea alone in
his mind, he was bent on thrashing Mark. In
fine, he was dangerous ; for science, though it
goes for much, is not everything in an encounter
with the weapons of nature, and the clumsiest
duffer may get one in by chance. Tom came

up warily this time, and for a minute or nearly
neither had an advantage worth naming. Then
Tom landed with that unskilful right of his,
delivered in direct defiance of art and rule, but
telling heavily. Mark's counter was smart
but ineffective, and Tom, seeing his chance,
followed with the left, put in the right again
with the whole weight of his body behind it,
and stood over the prostrate Mark, somewhat
to his own amazement, victor for the
moment.

Thrice is he armed that hath his quarrel
just, and it may be admitted that if ever a man
had the right to thrash another, Mark had conferred
such a right upon his cousin. Mark's
confidence was shaken, and as he rose he said
to himself, ' I may have to take a hiding after
all.' Tom, standing by for the renewal of hostilities,
said to /a'mself, ' I shall win.' Mark was
no coward, but he did not scorn punishment as
Tom did, and that went a long way towards

balancing the difference in skill, since the least
skilful had begun to prove the doctrine of
chances. It was getting dark, too, and that
helped to equalise matters. In boxing you
want to see your friend's eye, just as you do
in fencing, and there is a curious instinct
wakened by practice, which tells you exactly
which feature the eye has chosen, and you have
telegraphed to you with u]ifaihng accuracy the
point of time at which the advancing and retiring
left will shoot straight from the shoulder.
I write for the ignorant. The learned know
these things.

Genuine scorn of pain or disfigurement
began to tell. The stern yearning for a just
revenge was stronger than the mere instinct of
self-defence, and Tom's constitutional stamina
was greater than his cousin's. Mark, being
knocked clean off his legs for the third time,
declined to get up again. He was a young
man in whom there was no faculty for shame,

and he was getting the worst of it under these
unfavourable conditions.

I have had enough,' said Mark.

I have not,' said Tom, grimly. ' Stand
up.'

I tell you I've had enough,' Mark replied,
with excusable asperity.

Stand up,' said Tom, again, ' or I'll cane
the life out of you.'

Mark stood up, desperate, and prepared to
renew the conflict.

How long .^ ' he asked. ' How long do
you mean to carry on this business ? '

Till one of us kills the other,' said Tom.

The sincerity of this declaration was undoubtable,
and Mark felt a chill as he looked
at the prospect. This mild, long-suffering fool
of a cousin of his had an animal strain in him
after all, and could be stirred up to a real
vengeance. Mark began to fight this time with
the energy of desperation, but the steel was

taken out of him already, and in two or three
minutes he was down once more.

Stand up,' said Tom, again. Mark made
no answer, and Tom, whose foot touched his
discarded cane at this moment, stooped and
picked up the weapon.

Fair play,' cried Mark, struggling to his
feet.

You mistake the situation, Mark,' said
Tom, with a bitter coolness which had a passion
of rage within it. ' This is not a conflict
according to the laws of the prize-ring. It is
an execution. Come, sir.'

To deal briefly with a subject which can
have but little charm to the tender-hearted,
Tom Carroll held his hand when the walking-cane
broke in pieces, but not before. At first
Mark took it fighting, but for the last minute'
or two he was on his knees, and only the
cousinly hand upon his collar kept him from
falling in a huddled heap upon the turf. When

at length Tom threw away the stump of the
cane and released his hold, Mark dropped like
a limp towel.

Now I have had enough,' said Tom, not
altogether unreasonably.

He found his hat, threw the overcoat he
had discarded at the second or third round
over his arm, and went away, leaving Mark
still coiled up on the turf, moaning, and for the
moment half unconscious. When Mark arose
he cursed with a subdued intensity which was
not unworthy of the situation. He had not
merely been royally thrashed, so thrashed that
he could scarcely stand or crawl, but he had
been thrashed by a man much less able than
himself, and the reflection was galling. Still,
his sense of the fitness of things was not wholly
disturbed. He saw that, from Tom's point of
view, the night's work looked natural.

Tom, meanwhile, having discharged his
mission, walked towards the railway station.

VOL. II. Y

In this world things are so ordered that no joy
is permanent, no happiness stable. For the
first two or three hundred yards the gladness
of battle abode with him, but then a shade of
compunction began to steal over his heart. He
told himself that Mark had deserved all he had
got, and more, but he was naturally of a merciful
turn, and, except in the heat of passion,
could have hurt no human creature, however
obnoxious and hateful. The sense of compunction
was not strong enough to mount
into repentance, but it dashed his vengeful
pleasure.

I have no right to be pleased,' said Tom,
as he walked. 'The work was dirty, though
necessary and just ; and no man lias a right to
extract pleasure out of such a business.'

Yet he missed the exhilarating glow of revenge
accomplished ; and, by the time of his
arrival at the station, he was depressed and
almost miserable. The little first class waiting-room

there lead a mirror on the wall, and
catching sight of this own reflection within it lie
started with surprise. A cut on the forehead,
with dry blood barked about it, looked terrible.
His nose and upper lip were of abnormal size,
his shirt was open at the collar, his necktie was
wildly disarranged, and there were two or three
buttons missing' from his waistcoat. He lead
scarcely felt his own damages until now ; out
of sight was out of mind ; but he began to be
conscious of sundry aches and pains, and he
found that he could scarcely raise his right
hand to his head. That fact Alas, of course,
traceable to the vigorous employment of mi-accustomed
muscles, and was in itself a testimony
to the completeness of the castigation
inflicted upon cousin Mark.

Tom walked to the station-master's private
door, and knocked there.

Can you let me have a wash, Leo'<?att ? '
he demanded, when the man appeared.

Certainly, sir,' said Leggatt, with polite
deference. ' Come in, sir.'

When Tom walked into the light the man
literally jmnped.

God bless my soul, sir he cried, ' you're
covered with blood.'

I don't think there's much the matter,'
said Tom, quietly. ' When is the next train ? '
Due in five minutes, sir,' said Leggatt,
staring at him. ' Have you been having a
fight, sir, or what ? You're awfully knocked
about, sir.'

That reminds me,' said Tom, with apparent
calmness. ' When you can find time you had
better take the porter with you, and walk upto
Marston's Spinney. I think you will find
my cousin there. He wants looking after.'

The station-master paused in the act of
pouring water in a basin, and asked :

You've had a row with Mr. Mark, sir ? '

Yes,' said Tom. ' We have quarrelled,

and I have given him a thrashing. I think he
deserved it. But he wants looking after, I
fancy, and perhaps you had better see to it.
If any inquiries should be made after me
you can say that I have gone straight up to
town.'

I hope you've done no mischief, sir,' said
the station-master.

He will be all right in a week or two,'
said Tom, calmly. 'A little soap, if you please.
Thank you.'

The station-master, with distracted visage,
stood by whilst the young man washed, and he
saw that both hands and the cuffs of his shirt
were caked with blood. Tom borrowed a hairbrush
when he had washed, and in a minute or
two looked half respectable again. The warning
bell rang outside and the two came upon
the platform together.

Goodbye, Leggatt,' said Tom, as he
stepped into the carriage. It was the last train

for the night, and he was the sole passenger
from the little Overhill terminus. ' There's
half a sovereign for you. Look after my
cousin, if you please. I think it likely that
you will find him just at this end of the
Spinney. If not, you may make inquiry about
him and see if he has got home.'

The engine and its three coaches steamed
away, and the station-master was left agape on
the platform. A minute or two had elapsed
before he spoke to the porter, who was preparing
to go home, and bade him get a light. The
two went together to the place Indicated and
searched about until they found a patch of
trampled grass, evidently the scene of battle.
There had been rain within a fe-vv hours, the
soft turf had easily torn away, and scores of
little patches of bare earth were shown by the
light of the lantern.

Mr. Mark has got up and quitted,' said the
porter, swinging the light to and fro ; ' but

there's been a pretty tidy conflict by the look
of things.'

'Hush!' said the station-master. 'Listen.
Whafs that ? '

There was a heavy groan from near at
hand, and the men, hearing it plainly, stood
still and trembled.

There's been a bad night's work here, I'm
afraid,' said the chief. ' A man ain't battered
about in fair fight till he cries like that.'

Here he is,' cried the porter, after waving
his lantern to and fro a<j[ain. In another
moment the' stood above Mark Carroll's prostrate
figure. He lay all abroad, with his iixce
upwards, and his chin pointed to the sky. His
arms and legs were flung helplessly into the
form of the letter X, and at intervals of
thirty seconds or thereabouts he groaned terribly.
If the two searchers had advanced in
silence they must have heard him long ago.
Whilst they looked the station-master suddenly

dropped upon his knees so that his face came
into the circle of Hight. His shaky forefinger
almost touched a something white which stuck
out from the breast of the recumbent figure.
The porter dropped upon his knees on the
other side, and the two glared at each other.

Stabbed ! ' gasped one, and the other
answered in the same word like a husky echo.

The white object was the ivory handle of a
dagger, and the blade was buried in Mark
Carroll's body.

For Heaven's sake,' said the porter, ' don't
touch it. I've heard tell it's certain death,
unless you're a doctor. Shall I run for Doctor
Morton ? '

No,' cried the station-master, rising and
recoiling in a single motion. ' Stay here. I'll

go'

He sped across the fields, and the porter
knelt trembling on the grass, whilst the
wounded man beside him groaned at intervals

which felt like hours. After an awful time
came lights and voices, and figures moved
about the field as if in the uncertain horror of
a dream. The doctor came with the little
crowd of people who had been summoned to
assist, and in a while the wounded man was
taken up and borne home amidst dreadful
whispered guesses, and the lights and the
frightened faces passed away.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LOyOOS : FEINTED BY

8POTTI8WOODB AND CO., NE\V-8TEEET Squab

AHO Parliament Street

VOL. IL

^

,: S*

Mti

%m^^

^«-«^ V'

mil

'M

im

0'

';ii!;:;t'

;:!^!nS,V-

OF THE

UN IVLR City

or ILLINOIS




V.3

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/heartsnovel03nnurr

III.

Each in Three Volumes.

HEART AND SCIENCE. By Wilkie Collins.
THE CAPTAINS' ROOM. By Walter Besant.
DUST. By Julian Hawthorne.
THE GOLDEN SHAFT. By Charles Gibbon.
OF HIGH DEGREE. By Charles Gibbon.
GIDEON FLEYCE. By Henry W. Lucy.
REGIMENTAL LEGENDS. By J. S. Winter.
WOMEN ARE STRANGE. By F. W. Robinson.
THE HANDS OF JUSTICE. By F. W. Robinson.
Self-condemned. By Mrs. Alfred Hunt.

PORT SALVATION; or, The Evangelist. By
Alphonse Daudet. Translated by C. H. Meltzer. 2 vols,
post 8vo.

CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

A NOVEL

BY

DAVID CHRISTIE MURRAY

author of
Joseph's coat ' ' a life's atonement ' etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[All rights reserved]

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

v,3

HEARTS.

CHAPTEE XXy.

When the charming Signora left Mark she
walked back to the village inn and retired to
her own room. At first as she walked her
drooping gait deceived Mark, and so long ashe
looked after her it gave him good reason to
believe her vanquished. But before long she
began to walk swiftly and her form became
more upright, whilst the expression of her face
underwent a singular and terrible change. At
the house door before she entered it she sighted
one of the yokels of Overhill, and became conscious
of her own aspect. As well as she

VOL. III. B

could she smoothed her features, and as she
came near she made a shift to assume a smile,
which in spite of the best intentions looked
forced and a little ghastly. But the yokel,
being a yokel, was not good at the reading of
facial expression, and only knew that a remarkably
line woman had gone by smiling. Speaking
about her over his next pint, the loafer
observed that she did seem a good-watered un
enough, but when she had passed him her
features unscrewed themselves unseen and her
look was openly terrible once more. She took
off her bonnet and smoothed her hair before-the
little meagre square of mirror on the table
by the window, and for a time regarded her
reflection steadily, whilst her bosom heaved
with a motion at once slow and tempestuous,
and her hands were clenched tightly.

In a while she sat down, and for an hour
or more she was almost as still as a statue
except for that slow, long-drawn and laboured

breath, and an occasional movement of the
hands. The fact was that this charming creature
was meditating no less a thing than murder,
and the deed looked as awful to her as it could
look to anybody. Half her soul clamoured for
it, and half her soul dreaded it and feared the
consequences. Not the consequences which
would follow by the penal law, but the slow
punishment of her own heart and nerves — the
carrying about of a murdered man's ghost with
her, in the bright day and the still watches of
the night. She knew that her most terrible
punishment would be to escape detection, and
her thoughts prophesied to her with frightful
clearness. She could see herself going about
with that shadovv^y companion (invisible to all
eyes but her own), she could see herself tossing
through long nights of secret horror with the
image of the murdered man standing vaguely
against the curtain of the darkness. Her
thoughts went further, and she could see the

black, shining readiest of the river, and the gas-lamps
on either side growing closer and closer
as they receded, until they became a fine hne
of light in the distance, and through the night a
woman, driven by a shadowy horror in her
rear, and dragged by whispering voices from
the stream, walking with reluctant feet towards
the refuge of death. She saw these things and
they thrilled her with fears, but she knew that
neither they nor anything surmountable by hate
or cunning would stay her hand a moment.

He had foiled her in a vengeance at once
cheaper and more satisfactory than this would
be, and he must pay the penalty. Father than
he should win she was ready to dare and suffer
anything. She had set her heart upon his ruin,
and had made sure of it and gloated over it
beforehand. She lead held the cup to her own
hips and had maddened herself with thu-st to
drink it until the temptation of the draught
was irresistible. Then at the moment when



her lips had touched the bin, Mark's hand,
stronger and longer in reach than she had
fancied, had taken the cup from her grasp and
tossed it away. Perhaps had Mark foreseen
what was coming, he would rather have been
ruined outright at once, but he did not know
how desperate her thirst had grown, or what
length she would go to slake it.

The time went by as slowly as it travels ina
night of fever, when every hour drags itself
into insupportable years, and she sat like a
monument of patient hate. Through her open
window she could hear the church clock strike
the quarters and the hours, after pauses that
seemed incredible, and these were the only
sounds she cared to hear, or took note of, until
a voice suddenly struck upon her ear and
brought her to her feet.

This voice was a man's, and it spoke a few
words of very foreign-sounding English.

Tito ! ' she said to herself in a wondering

whisper, and stepping like a cat, lie advanced
and knelt by the open window to listen. He
was asking merely for something to eat and
drink, bnt he did it so lamely that the country
wits of the landlord were sorely tried to understand
him. In one respect at least Signor
Malfi was a model of the operatic tenor. He
had lived long in many countries and had never
mastered any language but his own or tried to
master any. In London, Vienna, Brussels, St.
Petersburg, New York, or what not, he ate
polenta and drank asti spumanti or inferno in
an Italian restaurant, and wheresoever he went
he had but one theme, the audacity of all other
operatic tenors whatsoever in pretending to
sing. Even his native vocabulary was limited,
and the man was stupid and ignorant and a
mountain of egotism.

He had one faculty which in intentness
approached the confines of the heroic, and
would have passed them had he not been a

coward. He could hate. Li a bitter, long-lived,
slovz-burniiig way Its faculty in this
direction surpassed that of the Signora, and
jealousy heaped coals upon his fire and poured
oil upon it. He had followed the Signora to
this out-of-the-way place, inspired by hate of
Mark and jealousy of her, and he had learned
already that Mark Carroll lived in the village,
and had had Trench House pointed out to him.
Mark Carroll was not at first recognisable in
the village ears as Marco Carol, but by dint of
perseverance the Signor had conquered this
obstacle and had learned what he wished to
learn. Now murder, if the thing were to be
accomplished safely, presented no such terrors
to his mind as it did to the Signora's, and it
was significant of the quality of his hatred that
he could eat and drink even whilst it burned
its bitterest within. There was nothing clearer
in the whole world to his limited intellect than
the certainty that Mark and Caterina were

again together, and that her pretence of hatred
against Mark had been simply a cunning blind.
The Signor, in spite of his presence there, and
his hate and jealousy, set an exaggerated value
upon his neck, and yet in spite of that he
carried a stiletto with him. If chance should
occur — a safe chance — it would be hard to
miss it, and aggravating to think of it afterwards.
Less than a safe chance he did not feel
disposed to take, but he went about (with the
usual astonishing ignorance and stupidity of
men who contemplate the crime round which
he was hovering) to make himself noticeable,
and to stamp it on the memories of people that
a stranger who could scarce speak English, and
who in an English village was remarkable ina
hundred ways, had been asking about Mark
Carroll.

He sat in the front room of the inn looking
on the one street of the village, and there, being
really hungry and thirsty, he ate bread and

cheese, and drank small beer, though he made
wry faces over them. Then he tried to question
his host, who tried hard to understand him and
failed. The Signora, who had her window
closed, and her bedroom door open by this
time, heard him and understood him well
enough. The Signor wished to know whether
he was aware of the existence of a foreign
young woman in those parts ; and the landlord,
without in the least understanding him,
proposed to answer this question straight and
to the point, by bringing down the Signora
herself to translate for him. The landlord
firmly believed that all foreigners were
Frenchmen, and that all foreign tongues were
French.

He mounted the stairs and rapped at the
Signora's door. At the first sound of his step
upon the stair she had silently fixed the latch
and retired.

Excuse me, miss,' said he, when she had

opened the door again, ' there's a Frenchman
downstairs, as I can't make a word of. Would
you, now, just have the goodness to walk down
and pass a word with him ? '

The Signora shook her head, and the landlord,
having tried in vain to persuade her,
retired and rejoined Signor Malfi.

There is a young woman upstairs,' said he,
as talks your lingo, and can't scarcely speak
any other, but she ain't the sort to help nobody,
it seems. Their's Mister Mark, now — Mister
Mark Carroll — as have travelled in foreign
parts, and maybe he oughtn't mind taking the
pains to speak to you, but there's nobody else
in the village, unless it's Parson, and him I ain't
sure about.'

This address passed by the Signor like the
idle wind which he regarded not. He did not
even catch his enemy's name, for the landlord
made it Mark Carl, as nearly as phonography
can do him justice.

Tank you, sare,' said the Signer. ' Ow
moche ? '

This the landlord understood, and answered
with his fingers. The Signor, having settled
his little bill, lit a cigar, asked for brandy, and
having by this time exhausted his English, sat
quietly sipping and smoking. The Signora had
opened her door again and listened, waiting for
him to go. After what seemed a long time he
got up and went away with a huono giorno to
the host. Caterina began to breathe more
freely. It was evident that Malfi was hunting
her for some purpose of his own, and she was
indisposed to lose her one immediate chance
of vengeance. She peered at him through the
rough curtains of imitation lace, and saw him
sauntering down the road. Perhaps he had
given up the hunt, with whatever purpose it
had been started. She resumed her bonnet
and went downstairs to look after him. The
freedom of the open air began to invite her, and

lie had felt half stifled in her chamber. When
the Signora walked round the first bend in the
straggling village street she waited for a minute
only, and then, gathering her mantle about her
more closely, walked briskly in the opposite
direction to that which Malfi had taken. Once
out of the village she made a detour by the
fields, and then began to approach the copse at
the end of which Mark had arranged for the
evening interview. Reflecting that it would not
be wise with such a deed as she had in view to
be seen too much in that immediate neighbourhood,
she turned back suddenly and discovered
the Signor at a little distance. She knew at
once, as if by instinct, that he had been dogging
her steps, and determined to face him at once
and to have his business over. Malfi, on his part,
seeing that she walked to meet him, stood stock
still, with his black eyes blazing and his skin a
dirtyish olive grey. Her eyes were aflame too,
and her bosom heaved faster than common.

Well,' she said, facing him boldly, ' what
do you want with me ? '

You are like all women,' he answered,
with all the courage he could summon. ' You
are a har and a pretender. But I have found
you out at last, and I am bent upon revenge.'

So am I,' she answered.

You blinded me once,' he said, moistening
his dry lips with his tongue, ' but you will
blind me no more. I was a fool to believe
you, but you acted well.'

You were always a fool, Tito,' she said
contemptuously, ' and you have undergone no
change. You are not safe here, for I am
desperate, and you will do wisely to go away.'

Not until I have killed him or you,' said
the Signor Malfi.

The Signora laughed at him, and the Signor
did not indeed look especially formidable on
the outside at that moment. His eyes had lost
half their fire, and he looked hither and thither

rather than face her steady glance. The woman
frightened him, and he began to wish that he
lead let her alone, though he found himself
compelled to brag and bully a little before he
went.

Now the lady herself had been ready
enough to threaten Mark before she had
meant any real mischief against him, and
whilst she was only enraged against him, in a
general sort of way. But now the reticence
which often accompanies real hate (just as it
accompanies the rival passion) stepped in
between herself and any proclamation of her
intent.

You ! ' she said scornfully. ' You are too
much a coward to kill anybody. Why are you
here ? Are you jealous of me, you poor fool ?
What do you want ? '

Blood ! ' said Tito, with a melodramatic
snarl. He had seen a good deal of melodrama
in his time, and he knew what ought to be

effective on the sort of stage he lead most
]patronised in youth. But he was beginning to
feel a want of earnestness in the part lie
played — the woman's eyes daunted him, and
she had altogether the stronger spirit — so that
the dramatic monosyllable and the snarl excited
nothing but an angry ridicule in the Signora's
mind.

She smiled and waved him away, and there
was an expression in her smile so terrible that
he recoiled a little before the sweeping wave of
her hand and arm.

Go,' she said. ' I have business to-night,
and I will not have my footsteps followed. If
I see you again — I am in a mood to be
dangerous — I shall very probably kill you.'

Go ? ' he dared to say. ' And leave you
to meet him ? '

Ape and ass ! ' she bm^st out, advancing
against him with outstretched hands. ' Do I
look like a woman on a love errand? Go

before I do you a mischief.' She recovered
herself from this burst of passion, and turning
walked away. After traversing a dozen yards
or so, she stopped with this warning — ' If you
follow me I will kill you.'

The time for her encounter with Mark was
growing near, and though she had no great
opinion of the Signor's courage, and believed
she had fairly frightened him, there was still a
chance that he might follow her. The deed
she had set her mind on would endure no
witnesses, and for the misleading of a possible
spy she marched straight past the place of
assignation, along the narrow road which led
through the copse, and straight on by the fields
until she struck the highway to the north of the
village. For a time she had disdained to look
about her, fancying that Malfi might still have
kept her within sight, but now she prospected
and the landscape was clear of him. She was
strange to the country, but she had kept her

bearings well, and now, ]breaking through a
weak place in the hedge, she began to make
her way back to the trysting-place. She had
scarce retraced a quarter of a mile when she
heard a footstep in the road on the other side
of the hedge, and peering through the boughs,
she became aware that the Signor had mustered
courage enough to follow. Whether it was
at this instant his courage failed him she could
not determine, but his steps grew suddenly
irresolute and then ceased, so that he stood
within five or six yards of her staring at the
ground, and after a second's consideration
turned on his heel and slowly walked back
again. Caterina allowed him to get a start
and then followed, keeping to lier own side
of the hedge, accommodating her pace to
his, and walking in stealthy silence.

By-and-by a hedge barred her way, and
she walked along it seeking a place at which it
could be got through. The hour of appoint-vol.

III. C

ment sounded clear and mellow across the
fields at this moment. If she were right in
her reckoning, she should have been within
two or three minutes' walk of the copse, but
the height of the mound on which the hedge
grew prevented even a glimpse of the country
beyond. She found a gap at last and
clambered up to it, and there, in the beginning
of the twilight, she saw, a single field
ahead of her, Tom Carroll sitting upon a stile.
She saw him rise and she saw his cousin Mark
come forward to meet him. She stood with a
branch in either hand and watched. Neither
of them cast a glance that way, and she felt
safe from any but the closest observation,
standing as she did at one side of the gap, withall
the body of the flowering hedge between
her and the cousins. But all the petty obstacles
that came in between her and that draught of
vengeance for which her whole soul thirsted set
her heart beating and her nerves quivering

with the unsatisfied desire of hate. She
watched and waited with savage impatience,
but it was not long before she began to be so
interested that even hate was content for a few
minutes with watching. She was too far away
to hear the words they spoke, but the gestures
were eloquent enough to supply her with a clue
to the character of the conversation, and shew
as not in the least surprised when she saw
Tom's stick lash out at Mark's face. Then her
soul was in her eyes as she watched the combat.
More than once she felt inclined to dash out,
and by one stroke put an end to it, but when
the tide of battle turned and Tom began to
win, she rejoiced and withheld herself, and
watched, and exulted.

The sole witness of the royal thrashing
which terminated the scene between Tom and
Mark was not aware that she was being
watched in turn, but Malfi was staring at her
through the boughs of the hedge in the lane,

c 2

So far as he dared he would find out what she
was doing. Once or twice a voice from the
fields reached him, and once or twice the
sound of blows. His ears were exceptionally
quick, and he was almost sure that one of
those voices was Mark Carroll's.

He had watched for a long time, and the
Signora had stood upon the bank motionless
meanwhile. A firm and heavy footstep had
sounded on the road and had started him from
his watch, but it had faded out of hearing, and
when he went back to the break in the hedge
Caterina was still standing there. Two or
three minutes later she had melted through
the boughs against which she stood (or seemed
so to melt, for the evening shades were pretty
dense by this time), and after a pause he
moved cautiously along on tiptoe until he
found a practicable place, and broke silently
into the field. Teaching the place on which
the Signora had been perched, he peered

stealthily over the mound, and in a second
or two he made out her figure and the figure
of a man in the dusky shadow of the copse.

He strained his eyes, but could make out
nothing with surety, but his suspicions helped
him to something very like a certain belief in
the man's identity. Caterina and the man were
talking, but, sharp as his ears were, he could
make out nothing of their speech. The merest
murmur reached him. Hate began to stir in
him so strongly that it lent him courage, and
he ran crouching back to the road, and then,
still crouching, to the copse. Through this he
crawled like a cat, so silently that his progress
was scarcely audible to himself, and therefore
with great slowness. Now at least he could
find out the terms on which Caterina and Mark
Carroll met.

The Signora had waited at her post of
observation until she had seen Mark rise first
to his knees and then to his feet. She saw him

walk to the stile and lay his hands upon it to
steady himself, and then she emerged from her
cover and crossed the field. When she came
up to him he was breaking hard, with now and
then a moan.

Good evening, Marco,' she said quietly,

I am afraid you are not well.'

Mark tiu-ned his eyes upon her, and groaned
a curse. The Signora smiled a ghastly smile,
and Mark, straightening himself with a prodigious
effort, turned and made a step or two
away from her. She intercepted him, and
they stood face to face again.

If you have come here,' said Mark, in a
groaning voice which he could scarcely manage,

in the hope of getting anything out of me,
you have your pains for your trouble, and you
can go back again.'

He stood there before her feeble and helpless,
and the stiletto was in her right hand
beneath her mantle ready for use. She hated

Idm well enough, and half wondered that she
did not strike the blow. He had spoken in
English, but she answered him in Italian.

You lied to me long ago, and you determine
to end as you began.'

You and that cousin of mine,' said

Mark, pantingly, ' come too pat together not
to know of each other, I fancy.' Such a
thrashing as Mark had endured does not
tend to clear the wits, but he might have
known how baseless that guess was in reality.
That doesn't matter,' groaned Mark, ' I shall
live to pay him, and as for you, you can goto
the Devil. I've done with you. Go ! '

'Where can I go?' she asked. She was
determined on the deed, and yet she had loved
him once, and if she could have drawn a sign
of pity from him, perhaps she might have
stayed her hand. She said in her thoughts
that he should condemn himself by his own
mouth. ' How can I go ? '

You cau go where you like and how you
like,' said Mark. ' Let me get by, and be
damned to you ! '

If he had tried to harden her heart to the
awful task she had set herself, he could scarcely
have succeeded better. But she would test him
-yet. She knew he must wound her to the very
quick before she could bear to strike him.
Though she meant murder all along, she
wanted it to feel like justice.

You remember all the oaths you swore tome
? ' she asked him. He waited to pass her,
and stood in a sullen rage, with all the flesh of
his back and arms burning and stinging, and
his very bones aching within him. 'You
remember how you swore, come Veal or woe,
that you would care for me ? You remember
all the arts you used ? '

There was a little crackle in the undergrowth
behind him, but neither of them noticed it.

Arts ? ' said Mark. ' Let me get by and

put an end to this. There were precious few
arts needed to catch a bird of your feather, my
lady.'

Yet }'0u thought it worth your while to
rise them,' answered Caterina, making one step
forward.

Mark broke out with a curse. ' Let me

get by, or If I lay my hands on you,

you'll remember it. Let me get by.' She
faced him without moving hand or foot. ' Let
me pass,' said Mark, 'or I'll throttle you I
never laid my hands on a whore yet, but '

He was do^vn with a husky yell, and across
his prostrate body Tito Malfi and Caterina
were glaring at each other.

CHAPTEE XXVI.

When Mark Carroll recovered consciousness he
was in bed in his own room in his uncle's
house, a nurse was standing at a table, and the
face of the chief medico of the county town
was bending over him. The wounded man
remembered in a flash everything that had
happened. He tried to speak, and could not
make a sound, but the doctor saw his pale lips
move and bent his head to listen. Mark,
seeing this, tried again, and just managed to
whisper —

Am I going to die ? '

'You must not agitate yourself, Mr.
Carroll,' said the doctor. Mark's lips formed
the words over again. ' Everything,' said the

doctor, * depends upon your own courage and
quiet.'

Most medical men have a way of pooh-cooling
the dread of death in a patient, but
this particular man had religious scruples
which may not have made him a better
doctor, but were matters of stem conscience
with him. Mark lay still, comprehending the
gravity of the situation. He was too weak for
much resolution, but he had made up his
mind then and there that he would not die if he
had any voice in the matter. A man who can
find strength to make up his mind upon that
question rarely dies, but days passed by before
it could be said that Mark was out of danger.

In the meantime Tom had got back to
to\vn, burning and occasionally flaming with
anger. To have thrashed Mark was no relief
to him. He did not desire to thrash him again,
but recognised the uselessness of revenge as
an anodyne in such a case as this. Perhaps

Mark's villany was phenomenal — at all events
his cousin thought it so, and he could never
think of it without thinking also of the benefits
which he had heaped on Mark in the days of
his own prosperity.

He had reached London by a train which left
the county town after midnight, and his disordered
condition escaped notice at Montague
Gardens ; but when Baretti saw him next day
he had a fine black eye, and his mouth was
ludicrously puffed on one side. The knuckles
of his left hand were so cut about that he had
to wear a glove to conceal the wounds. The
painter noticed all these things silently, and
waited for Tom to begin his story.

You were right, Baretti,' said the youngster
at length. ' I don't care to talk about it. I
taxed him — something came out down there —
and I taxed him with it all. He made no
pretence of an excuse, but admitted everything
at once. We had a fight, and I thrashed him

as long as I could lift my arm. Now let us
forget him.'

That was more easily said than done,
though, in spite of the volcanic rage which
sometimes rose within him, he spoke no more
of cousin Mark. The black eye and swollen
lip kept him prisoner for some days, and he
neglected the daily papers as a rule, otherwise
he might have heard curious news. The daily
papers throughout England, from the Times
to the Mudpool Evening Echo, informed each
its section of the public that Mr. Mark Carroll,
of Trench House, Overhill, had been found
lying in one of his uncle's fields within three
hundred yards of his uncle's gates, with signs
of terrible violence upon his person, and an
ivory-handled dagger of curious design stuck
in his breast. Hopes were entertained of the
unfortunate gentleman's recovery, and the
police had a definite clue to the perpetrator
of the crime. In these circumstances it might

seem curious that no arrest was made, but
after the first day or so the injured gentleman
was himself responsible for that fact.

Being supposed by his medical men to be
strong enough to be questioned as to the perpetrator
of the deed, Mark answered nothing
but this—

Tell me when I am out of danger.'
The doctors looked gravely at each other
and avoided Mr. Carroll's eye. The whole
village of Overhill was absolutely certain as
to the personality of the criminal,, but by
common tacit consent the old man was left
to his own guesses. Where his suspicions
were cast no man knew for certain, but his
plump features wizened, and his rosy cheeks
grew white, his proud head drooped, and he
walked with a piteous uncertainty for so
pompous and lofty a man. Now and then
an unconscious groan would escape him, and
whilst Mark's fate was uncertain he scarcely

ate or drank or slept. All this might grow-out
of concern for his nephew, but most people
fancied that a breath of the popular suspicion
had touched him.

Number Twenty Montague Crescent was
watched night and day, and the police kept
a hand above Tom Carroll ready to sweep
down on him at any moment. At last the
moment came.

Cousin Mark had always been inclined to
laugh at the popular cant about conscience,
and death-bed repentance had always seemed
to his firm and logical mind cowardly and
useless. If there where a Deity at all — and
Mark took leave to have a doubt upon that
question — it mast be extremely difficult to
hoodwink Him, and He would scarcely think
the better of a villain for adding cowardice to
his hist of vices. Whilst in full possession of
health and strength the young man had been
a downright atheist, on the grounds of reason

and common sense, but now there intruded
upon Its mind a chilly dread. Suppose he had
been wrong after all ? This mental condition
is common enough in the circumstances, and
many divines have built argument upon it.
The existence of the fact proves itself and
nothing more, and Mark's mind, weakened as
lie was, was quick to see the fallacy of the
theologian's trick. ' I am afraid,' said Mark
to himself. ' Well ? What does that prove ?
That I am afraid.' But for all that he lay fora
day or two and faced the one awful mystery
which all men have to face in turn. The
great insoluble, terrible problem stared at
him, and he at it, and in spite of his stout
unbelief he trembled. For he had a crime in
his mind compared with which the peccadilloes
of which he had been guilty seemed as nothing,
and at this time he quailed before the promptings
of his own vengeance. If he had died he
would have gone to the grave in silence, with

Ms lips sealed by a fear which he strove in
vain to deride as a superstition. But when at
the end of five weary days and nights the
doctors gave him the assurance that his life
was no longer in danger, his courage came
back to him. Even then when they renewed
their questions, he answered : —

I am not strong enough to speak about
it yet. Give me a day or two to grow strong
in.'

They urged that in the meantime the criminal
might escape, but he only shook his
head with a wry smile and declined a verbal
answer. So they were compelled to let him
alone and to bide his time. In the end he
confided in the local doctor.

Is anybody suspected ? ' he asked, when
the niu"se had been turned out of the room and
the door had been locked.

Yes,' said the doctor. ' There is a very
general suspicion.'

VOL. III. D

If I had died instead of recovering as I
have done,' said Mark, ' it would have been a
hanging matter, I suppose ? '

In all probability,' the doctor answered.

That,' said Mark, ' was why I held my
tongue. But, now, I don't think that any
mawkish personal consideration ought to
operate. Society must be protected.' Talking,
even now, was a business of some difficulty,
and he had to make frequent pauses. .
Tell me who is suspected.'

Your unfortunate cousin,' said the surgeon.

Ah ! ' said Mark, with a sigh. ' Is there
any evidence against him ? '

The surgeon told the common talk, based
on Leggatt's narrative, and swollen a little
from its first dimensions.

Poor Tom ! ' said Mark. ' I never thought
his evil passions would have carried him sofar.
He stabbed his best friend, old fellow,
in more senses than one when he stabbed me.

I couldn't lie here and think of his going to
the gallows over it, and so I thought it best to
be quiet. It's an awful scandal. Can't we
keep it dark after all ? My poor old uncle ! —
one of the finest fellows in the world ! — it will
break his heart. Break the news to him
gently, Morton. Does he suspect already ? '

We fear so,' said the doctor. What a
man this Mark Carroll was — the surgeon
thought. Lying in the face of death for days-and
only planning to shield his murderous
assailant by silence and to protect the honour
of the family. Even now he thought more of
his uncle than himself. When Mr. Morton,
general practitioner, left Trench House, he
eulogised Mark's conduct right and left, and
people began to think of him as a quite angelic
young man.

But before the doctor left he spoke with
Mr. Carroll.

I have had an interview with your nephew

D 2

he began. ' I am happy to tell you that he is
in a fair way to complete recovery. Most
happily the blade missed the vital organs.'

I am glad to know that, sir,' said Mr.
Carroll. 'Extremely glad to know that.' The
surgeon lingered for a time without saying
anything, and the master of the house looked
up at him. ' Have you anything to add to
that communication ? '

I have to perform a task of great difficulty,
sir,' said the surgeon, tremulously. It
falls to the lot of a doctor to break bad news
oftener, perhaps, than to the lot of any other
man in the world, but Mr. Morton was not
old, and his present task was unlike any in
his experience, and looked dreadful. 'You*
nephew has confided to me the secret he has
kept since the night of the attempt upon his
life. He has requested me to '

You may speak out plainly, sir,' said
Carroll, drawing himself to his old height

and looking the surgeon in the face. ' In a.
word — he accuses — whom ? '

Your son, sir,' answered the surgeon.
Mr. Carroll inclined his head in stern self-government
and assent.

I was not unprepared for such a revelation,'
he answered. His feats-es twitched and
quivered, and everything in the room was grey
to him as if a "sudden fog had spread about
him, but he stood upright and took the blow
like a man. He had given up loving Tom a
long time ago. It had been a long time since
he had loved anybody, but his family pride,
like his personal pride, had been prodigious.
The certainty which now followed on suspicion
crushed that pride, and crushed him with
it ; but he was resolute to conceal his anguish,
and to play the Spartan. People had always
had a right to admire him and wonder at him.
They should have it still.

He unlocked a private drawer and took

from it a paper, upon which lie wrote the day
of the month. It was a printed form, otherwise
filled in already at the blank places, and
he read the whole tliincf through whilst the
surgeon stood looking on in amazement at his
stoicism. Carroll held a quill pen in his hand,
and this went hovering above the lines as he
read them. The hand looked steady, but the
quivering plume told how tense the nerves
were, and by what an effort the palsied shaking
was suppressed. When the wretched father
had read through the document, he took up
an unneeded piece of blotting-paper and
dabbed at the words he had Written a minute
or two before, though they were as dry as
the rest.

'I shall do my duty, sir,' he said, turning
round upon his companion. The doctor saw
that his eyes were bloodshot, though a minute
or two before they had been clear. ' This is
a warrant for the apprehension of Thomas

Carroll on a charge of attempted murder.
Cutting and wounding with intent to do bodily
harm, is the legal phrase employed. I shall
do my duty. Oblige me by ringing the bell,
if you please, sir.'

The surgeon obeyed without moving his
eyes from Carroll's face.

I shall do my duty,' said the miserable
man again. He spoke like an automaton. A
servant appearing in answer to the summons,
he tiu-ned his bloodshot eyes upon him, and
with the same unnatural voice and manner
said, ' Tell John Hard to get the dogcart
ready, and then come to me.' The
man bowed and disappeared. ' I shall do my
duty.'

He folded the warrant and put it in an
envelope, the paper rustling noisily in the
silence of the room. In answer to a tap at
the door he cried, ' Come in,' and the servant
re-entered. ' Well? ' inquired his master.

You told me to come to you, sir, when I
had given Hard your orders.'

I told you to send Hard to me,' returned
Mr. Carroll, with frosty majesty, ' when he
had got the dog-cart ready.'

I beg your pardon, sir.' The servant
retired again, closing the door noiselessly.

'I shall do my duty,' said the master of
the house for the fifth time. The persistent
utterance of this phrase alarmed the surgeon as
much as the bloodshot eyes, the swollen veins
in the temples, and the palsied rustling of the
paper in a hand that looked as steady as a
rock. ' Pray direct this envelope for me, Mr.
Morton,' said Carroll, after a pause. ' Mr.
Superintendent Lewis, Police Station, Frock.'

The surgeon with a shaky hand wrote down
the address dictated, and for a minute or two
there was silence. It seemed a long time
before the groom came to take the letter.

Drive with this to Frock with all possible

speed,' said Mr. Carroll. The groom took
it and withdrew. ' I have done my duty,' said
the wretched man, and at that moment the
doctor ran forward and caught him in his arms.

There Alas no necessity for alarming the
house, and the surgeon's nerves were tranquil
and his brain cool again now that he had work
to do. Bodily agony — bodily trouble of any
sort — was a thing he had ceased to be afraid
of, but the mental pain he had inflicted was
more than he could easily endure to look at.
He took off the patient's stiff and old-fashioned
satin stock, opened his collar, laid his head
back, and sprinkled his face with cold water.
It was perhaps as well for Mr. Carroll that he
had fainted. A little more of that pretended
stoicism, and it might have ended in apoplexy,
for he had a tendency that way.

He came round in time and sat up weak
and quivering. An hour went by before the
surgeon thought it safe to leave him, and then

the news of Mark's declaration went throiigli
the village like wdlcl-fire.

Mark himself had had plenty of time to
weigh the pros and cons, before he decided
upon this final lie of his. There were many
cogent reasons in its favour. For one thing;,
Tom had given him* such a thrashing as mortal
man rarely receives, and Mark wanted revenge
for it. Again, to mention the Signora would
be to provoke inquiry as to his past relations
with that young person, and to have her
arrested would be to publish in an assize coiu-t
a statement about himself which would infallibly
ruin him with his uncle. He would
have liked to be revenged upon the Signora
also, but that could wait. One thing at a time.
He could pay Tom for that tremendous hiding
with which his bones yet ached, and at the same
move he could get rid of him as a rival for
the Trench House estates at once and for ever.

Whilst he had the fear of death before his

eyes, be could not find courage for this
supreme rascality, but now that he was safe,
he could survey it calmly and quietly enough.
The prospect of such a vengeance as he planned
would have excited some people, and have retarded
recovery. Mark took it tranquilly. It
soothed him to think of it, and he began to
mend rapidly.

]Mr. Superintendent Lewis, happening to be
within when John Hard arrived with Mr.
Carroll's missive, opened it at once, cast his
eye over it, put it in his pocket-book, instructed
his wife to pack his portmanteau, and set out by
the next train for London. He arrived therein
the early evening, announced himself at
Scotland Yard, and in company with a town
officer, drove in a four-wheeled cab to
Montague Gardens. The cabman, pursuant
to instructions, pulled up at Number Twenty,
and the two alighted. Mr. Superintendent
Lewis rang the bell.

Does Mr. Carroll live here, my dear ? '

The two officers were in plain clothes, and
the girl fired up at the address.

Don't my dear me, if you please,' she said.
What do you want with Mr. Carroll ? What
name ? '

Mr. Superintendent Lewis walked in. The
London officer followed, closing the door behind
him.

Sorry to bring unpleasant news,' said the
superintendent. ' We are officers of the law,
my dear, and I have a warrant for Mr. Carroll's
apprehension.'

Stuff and nonsense ! ' cried the girl, trembling.
There was not a creature in the house
by whom Tom Carroll was not beloved.

Here's my authority,' said the official,
calmly. ' Show us up, there's a good girl, and
let us have it over.*

The girl held on to the stair-rail for a
moment, and then, rallying her forces, led

the way. She indicated the door, and the
superintendent tapped at it. Tom Carroll's
voice called ' Come in,' and the two men
entered. Tom and Baretti were sitting on
opposite sides of the fire.

Mr. Carroll ? ' said the superintendent,
looking inquiringly from one to the other.

Well ? ' asked Tom, rising.

It is my duty to arrest you, sir,' said the
officer, ' on a charge of maliciously wounding
with intent. I hope you'll come quietly.'

Maliciously ' wounding ? ' cried Tom.
Maliciously wounding whom ? '

Mr. Mark Carroll, of Trench House, Over-hill,
on the evening of the twenty-ninth ult.,'
responded the officer. ' My name's Lewis —
Superintendent Lewis, of Frock. This
gentleman is from Scotland Yard.' Tom and
Baretti were staring at each other. ' I should
advise you to say nothing at present,' added
the officer, in obedience to instructions for such

cases made and provided. ' You may make
any statement you like, but it is my duty to
tell you that anything you say will be taken
down and used against you on your trial.'

Maliciously wounding ? ' said Tom again.
They can't define that 2.^ maliciously wounding.'

Well, I don't know, sir,' returned the
superintendent, using a toothpick with great
sang froid, but keeping a careful eye upon his
man. ' Six inches of cold steel into him.'

What ? ' cried the prisoner, with face and
voice of horror and amazement.

Found at nine ten on the evening of the
twenty-ninth ult.,' said the officer, quietly, ' at
the edge of Marston's Spinney, at Overhill,
with the blade of an ivory-handled dagger
sticking in him.'

Who accuses me ? ' asked Tom,

I don't rightly know,' returned the superintendent,
'but I suppose it's the gentleman
himself.'

Carroll,' cried Baretti, ' you are innocent.
Tell me you are innocent.'

Yes,' said Tom. ' I am innocent.'

I hope you'll prove it so at the proper
quarter,' said Mr. Lewis, tranquilly polite. ' I
must trouble you to come, sir, if you please.
You'll want to take a few things with you,
perhaps. I dare say the young woman we saw
outside could pack you a handbag or something
of that kind.'

I will do it,' said Baretti, and he went into
the next room with his head whirling. Was
Tom guilty ? It would be miserable if he
were, but to Baretti's mind by no means unnatural.
The painter was as tender-hearted a
little man as any in the world, but he would
have dreaded the temptation of standing before
Mark Carroll with a dagger ready to his own
hand. He had seen Tom enraged once, and
he remembered now how his nature had
seemed to change with the passion of his

anger. The officer from Scotland Yard looked
in to hurry the process of packing, and found
Baretti sitting on the edge of the bed, the picture
of bewilderment and misery.

I'll give the gentleman a helping hand
he said to his confrere, and then, advancing,
Come, come, sir,' he added to Baretti, ' this
won't do no good. Point out to me what to
take, and I'll put the things up.'

Baretti half mechanically threw open a
wardrobe and began to lay out linen and
underclothing. Next he found a small portmanteau,
and the official began to pack the
things neatly into it.

You will want your dressing-case, Carroll ? '
asked Baretti, through the open door-way.

Yes,' said Tom, mechanically.

Baretti produced it, and the man looked
into it, and shook his head at the razors.

All right,' he said, fastening the case with
a snap, ' they'll take care of 'em at the station.

That all, sir? Come along.' He carried the
things into the next room, and set them down
in an arm-chair.

Carroll,' cried the painter, darting at his
friend and seizing him by both arms, ' can you
recall everything that took place that night?
Are you sure of everything ? '

Yes,' said Tom, ' I am sure of everything.'

And you used no weapon ? '

I broke my walking-stick over him,' cried
Tom, with some of the old rage rising in his
cheek and glittering in his eye, ' but I used no
other weapon.'

He harmed another man as much as you,
or nearly,' said Baretti. ' Carroll ! I see Malfi's
hand in this.'

I would say no more if I were in your
place, sir,' said the superintendent. ' Time's
precious, too, and I must ask you to come
along.'

May I come with you ? ' asked Baretti.

VOL. III. E

'That's as you like,' returned the officer.
But you can do no good, so far as I see.'

Baretti's mention of Malfi had set Tom
thinking.

'Baretti,' he said suddenly, 'the Signora
was there that day. Trace her, if you can.
My hands are tied. I can do nothing. I amin
deep waters, Baretti. Help me.'

I would lay down my life for you,' said
Baretti. ' Fear nothing, Carroll. I will be
cunning in your cause, and strong and untiring.
I told you that one day I would repay
you. By God's help, Carroll, I will pay you
now.'

The two wrung each other hard by both
hands, and the superintendent stepped between
them with a something that clattered a little
and glittered in the lamplight.

Is that necessary ? ' asked Tom. ' I will
go quietly.'

Very well, sir,' said the officer, ' I'm

willing to make things as pleasant as I cause
He signed to Baretti. ' Do you mind carrying
those things down, sir ? You'll find a four-wheeler
at the door. Now, sir,' to Tom, ' if
you'll allow this gentleman your arm I'll take
the other.'

Baretti took up his wide awake hat and pui
it on, then took up the portmanteau and the
dressing-case and walked downstairs. The
maid, the landlady, and her husband were
standing beneath the lamp in the hall. The
girl opened the door for him and whispered ashe
passed.

Is it true, sir ? Is Mr. Carroll arrested ? '
He nodded gloomily and passed on. A
moment later the two officers with their captive
arm-in-arm between them came somewhat
clumsily down the stairs, which were not quite
wide enough for a procession so arranged.
The landlady burst into tears at the sight, and
wrung her hands. She knew of Tom's none

E 2

>^v°'

\V

V^^

^ON^

•^^

mary misfortunes, at least in part, by this
time.

Oh ! Mr. Carroll, sir, what is it ? If it's
money, sir, here's Walker ready, sir, if it's a
bill of sale on the very furniture.'

That's extremely good of you ma'am,*
said the superintendent, 'but it isn't money.
Let us get away, ma'am, if you please.'

The two hurried Tom into the cab, and
Baretti followed. Not a word was spoken by
the way, but at the police station the friends
were parted.

Trace Signora Malfi,' were Tom's last
words to him.

Carroll,' cried the painter, ' I will leave no
stone unturned. Good-bye. Be brave.' Tom
went quietly away with a policeman in his
rear, and Baretti walked into the street. ' I
will save you,' he said. ' I will save you.
Best of friends, best of men, unhappiest, I will
save you.'

CHAPTEE XXVII.

The Signora was back in London, and had
brought with her the ghost she dreaded. All
day long and all night long she struck the
blow over again, and Mark's husky shriek answered
it, his body fell at her feet, and Malfi
glared into her eyes across it. The blow, the
cry, the fall, the glance followed each other
without pause or break, whether she were in
the streets amongst the grinding noises of the
town or in her own chamber with all sounds
locked out. Whether she read, sewed, walked,
ate, slept, it was all one. She struck the blow,
Mark shrieked and dropped, and she was
staring at Malfi. It had all been done in
three seconds, and every three seconds did it

over again. She was not sorry, she was not
afraid, or softened, but the burthen of this
continued iteration was tremendous, and scarcely
to be borne. The constant series of recurring
images and sound did not shut out thought,
or in any way beyond its awful grating on
the nerves unfit her for the common uses of
life.

Malfi fled and she followed him. He would
have distanced her and got clear away, but
for a heavy tumble in the first score yards.
When she came up with him he was half dead
with terror until he saw that her hands were
empty, and even then he knelt quaking in the
grass, with his clasped hands quivering before
him.

Get up, coward ! ' she said disdainfully.
Are you jealous now .^ '

You have killed him,' gasped Signor Malfi.

Hold your tongue,' said the Signora. ' You
are no safer than I am. I swear that if you

do not help me away I will charge you with
the crime. You came prepared to kill him.
You threatened him in my hearing. Give me
what money you have and let me go.'

He shook before her and implored her incoherently
whilst he fumbled in his pockets.
It was perfectly true that he had thought himself
ripe for murder, but then he had never
looked at it. To have stood by, to have seen
the blow and heard the yell that answered it,
and then to have caught those eyes with
murder in them suddenly fixed on his — all
this was experience, and his ideas of himself
under such conditions had been merely theoretical
hitherto. The Signora's threat terrified
him, and he knew her now as being capable of
anything.

Let me keep a little to get away with,'
he implored her, holding out in one shaky
hand a purse and a handful of jingling silver
in the other. Caterina took the purse.

We are safest apart she said. ' Take
your way, and I will take mine.'

With that she turned and walked swiftly
away, and it was at that moment she began
to strike the blow and hear the cry again. She
found a road and followed it, hiding once or
twice at the sound of footsteps. At the end
of five miles she found a railway station and
took train for London. She had an hour or
two to wait in the county town, and the train
which carried Tom Carroll bore her also. At
the terminus she saw him alight, and she
lingered until he had gone lest she should be
seen and recognised. She took a room in an
Italian coffee-house, and lived there for days.
Signer Malfi's purse was well stocked, and she
was provided for for many weeks to come.

Tom Carroll never saw the daily papers, but
the Signora began to spell them through with
great eagerness on the morning of her return
to town. On the first day the journal was

dumb on the matter in ^vhich she was interested.
On the morning of the second day
she learned that Mr. Mark Carroll, nephew of
Mr. Thomas Carroll, J.P., of Trench House,
Overhill, had been stabbed and lay in a precarious
condition. She learned also that the
police had a clue, and this, since she was
naturally ignorant of the ways of British police
and British journals, alarmed her as it would
have alarmed no practised criminal. She half
decided on flight, but lay still, partly through
fear of the danger of running away. Every
morning she spelled through her daily paper
imtil she found the thing she looked for, and
at last she learned that her victkn was on the
way to recovery, and had accused his cousin,
who was under arrest for attempted murder.
This presented no puzzle to the Signora, who
had had so much experience of the yearning
for revenge that she could understand its
operations in other people. She recognised a

sort of mastery of generalship in the manoeuvre.
Mark would crush his cousin that way, and
would seat himself more firmly than ever on his
throne at Overhill, and he would get besides a
full revenge for the thrashing Tom had given
him. He despised her for the meantime, and
could afibrd to forego one revenge to feed
upon another. She would rather that he had
turned and struck at her. She had loved him,
she had hated him, she had tried to kill
him. In answer he ignored her, and that was
tenfold more hateful than an revenge he could
have taken.

She was not sorry that he was alive. When
you hate as the Signora hated, you create an
unbearable blank in life by removing the
object of your passion. She had him still to
hate, and that was something. To have killed
him every day would have been a regal pleasure,
but you cannot have you: cake and eat
it, often. For once she had tasted vengeance,

and it was in her power to taste it again. How
to get at it ?

Her own instinct told her, but she feared
the road. Samson (though the Signora knew
nothing of that history) crushed himself to
kill his enemies. Her rage led her that way,
but as yet it was hardly strong enough, and
the time was not yet ripe. She would wait
and see.

She lay close, therefore, and every day she
spelled through her copy of the morning paper
until at last she lighted on the thing she sought.
Tom Carroll had undergone his first examination,
had denied the charge, and had been remanded
without bail. When the Signora could not
understand a word, she asked the people at her
lodging-house and had it explained, a course
which made it manifest that she took strong
interest either in general or particular police
proceedings. Perhaps it was not an uncommon
symptom there, but nobody seemed greatly to

notice it. The days went on, and Mr. Mark
Carroll was sufficiently recovered from the
effects of the murderous attack made upon him
by the defendant to appear in court, where he
swore that it was his cousin's hand and no
other which struck the blow. The Signora
read, though she attached no significance to
the statement, that Mr. Lording was in court.
The prisoner was defended, but called no Witnesses.
The testimony of the prosecutor remained
unshaken : the prisoner was formally
committed to take his trial, and bail was refused.
Mark was on his way to a perfect
triumph. The Signora was on the way to vengeance,
but at every step she counted the cost
and trembled. None the less she was on the
way.

Baretti was not idle all this time, but his
hands were tied, and he could do nothing that
seemed to be of use. He went down to Over-hill
and made inquiries in person, and thereby

discovered that two people answering to the
description of Signor Malfi and the Signora had
been in the village on the day of the attack.
He engaged privately the services of the police,
and set one or two active men to look for Tito
and Caterina, and, in that way, spent a good
deal of money to no purpose. When the
authorities allowed of it he saw Tom Carroll
and tried to cheer him, but he found that work
too heavy for his own foreboding heart. The
passion of his love and gratitude for his preserver
had come back in full tide upon him,
and whilst these troublous times endured Tom
was of more value to him even than his
love.

I will be loyal,' he would say to himself at
times. ' I will be loyal. I will be loyal.' It
was not his fault that the devil tempted him
with visions of Tom Carroll's last chance of
Mary's love destroyed. The temptation only
made him loathe himself. It never shook him

for a single instant ; its baseness was too open
and too palpable.

The time of the trial drew near, and he
had as yet done nothing of real service to
his friend. He was abroad in the streets
of London, wandering miserably in the early
night time, when the lamps were newly lighted
and the town was like a dream. He had
walked for some hours, not caring in what
direction his unguided footsteps led him, and
standing suddenly still to look about him,
he found that he had walked beyond his own
knowledge, and was in a part of the city which
was strange to him. A figure fluttered across
the street out of shadow into light, and swiftly
out of light into shadow again. It came dimly
to his mind that this had happened once or
twice before, but he was in a condition altogether
dreamlike, and many sleepless nights
had combined with his anxieties to drug intelligence.
It did not seem worth while to ask

his way. He was likely enough to come on a
place he knew by-and-by, or if he did not, he
was in no hurry to get home, and a hansom
cab was always to be found. His unconscious
footsteps took him on again, and a singular
half-consciousness grew upon him (as it grows
upon us in our dreams) that something near at
hand was following and tracking him. This
fancy developing quite suddenly into a fear,
he turned short round, and a figure fluttered
into the dark" behind him, but not before an
almost certain recognition had set his heart
beating. He ran in the direction of the flying
figure, and now every nerve in his body was
alert. It amazed him when the fugitive stopped
suddenly and faced him beneath a gas-lamp.
He paused before her panting (not with the
chase, for that was too brief to have put him
out of breath), and seized the Signora by both
wrists. She made no effort to remove his hold,
but stood panting back at him, though he

knew that (when he had time to think about it
afterwards) more from the look upon her face
than any other sign he noticed.

We have met at last,' she said, in her own
language. ' I have followed you many times
in the street, but I have not dared to speak
to you. We have met at last, and I must tell
you.' There she looked first downwards at
the hands that held her, and then at her
captor's face, with a glance of strange inquiry.
Why do you hold me ? '

I charge you,' said Baretti, in a voice so
husky that he could scarcely make himself
heard, ' I charge you with the attempted
murder of Mark Carroll.'

The lids of her great black eyes drew
together, and she looked at him through half-closed
lashes. ' You do not charge me,' she
said, and then in a second, with a gesture of
both hands which freed them from Baretti's
grasp, ' I charge myself. I am my own

accuser.' Her eyes flashed wide again as she
spoke, and her bosom rose with a single
tempestuous heave. ' Come,' she said, ' where
I can talk with you. I have followed you for
days to tell you, but I could never find the
courage until now.'

Come to the nearest police-station,' said
Baretti, quietly.

No,' she answered, with a noticeable
smile. 'Not there. Why need you grudge
me a few words ? Can I outrun you even if
I were to try ? The first policeman we pass
would take your word against me. I can do
better for you, better for your friend, and
better for myself if you will follow my way.
Take me to some place where I can talk with
you.'

The city street was empty, and so silent in
its deserted state that the tread ^A a policeman
in one of the roads which led out of it
was heard distinctly.

VOL. III. F

Walk on before me,' said Baretti.

'I beg of you. I pray of you,' she answered,
' that you will hear me first. I cannot
bargain with you, because any policeman will
take your word against me. Do not refuse me''

1 will hear you,' said Baretti. ' Walk on
before me.'

She walked on without a word, and the
painter followed a yard or two behind. They
came in a while to streets which at that
hour were more frequented, and by-and-by a
hansom crawled in sight. Baretti hailed it,
the Signora at his signal entered, and the
cabman, having received instructions, drove ta
Montague Gardens. Not a word was exchanged
until the cab drew up, when Baretti
took Caterina by the arm to secure her.

You are wasting trouble,' she said then.
How can I run away ? I do not wish to
run away. I followed you for days to speak
to you

At that lie released her, but kept a wary-eye
for her whilst he paid the man his fare
and whilst afterwards he unlocked the door.
Caterina stood on the pavement like a statue,
and never moved until he motioned to her to
enter. Then she walked forward tranquilly,
and at his bidding ascended the stairs. His
own room reached, he turned up the lamps
that glimmered feebly on the mantel-shelf, and
faced his guest.

What have you to say to me ? ' he
demanded.

I have to say, in the first place,' she
answered, ' that it was I who tried to kill
your friend's cousin. When the right time
comes I am willing to tell the whole world,
but not before.'

The Signora was a handsome woman in
her way, and at this moment, with her
southern eyes on fire and her southern cheeks
all pale, her lovely bosom heaving and falling,,

F 2

and her large white hands kitchen across it
as if to keep it still, she looked beautiful and
terrible. Baretti faced her in a suppressed
excitement almost equalling her own.

Let me tell you everything,' she went on,
and then you will understand. I was never
Tito's wife, and I never cared for him very
much. He was a poor thing, but in his way
he loved me, and I was content to go on with
him until the day when we both met you close
at hand here, when you and Marco and his
cousin were together. You remember ? '

I remember.'

You left Marco with us to do some little
business for Tito, who could not speak English.
You remember ? '

I remember,' he said again.

We met often after that, Marco and I,'
she went on, ' and by-and-by he began to
make love to me, and I began to listen to him
and believe him. You do not know what my

life has been, Signor Baretti, and I do not wish
to tell you. But I had never cared for a man
before, and he made me love him. He promised
me that he would take care of me as
long as I lived and he lived. I did not ask
him to marry me, for I would have been

contented ' The heaving breast, clenched

hands, and burning eyes filled in the pause.
I loved him,' she went on. 'I would have
died for him. I would have followed him barefooted
round the world, begging my bread, to
see him once a day. Well, he got tired of me,
and Tito suspected, and went to his rooms one
night when I was there. He hid me until Tito
had gone, and then he told me I might go also.
I had loved him like a dog, and he sent me
away like a dog. I saw then what manner
of man I had loved, and he sent me into the
street knowing that I should be homeless there.
Well, I can hate as well as I can love, and
after a long time I made up my mind that 1

would kill him. Then, that looked too
terrible.'

She paused again, and Baretti was still
silent.

He had been so base,' she pursued, ' that
a mean revenge seemed to suit my hatred of
him. His cousin, who is a stupid good young
man, your friend, had been cast away by his
father, and I have found out why, because I
was there at the Concert Hall when the thing
happened. I thought if his father is so severely
good as to cast off his own son for nothing,
what will he do with Marco when he knows
the truth about him ? So I went to expose
Marco.'

She tried to moisten her dry lips with a
tongue as dry as themselves, and Baretti
poured out a glass of wine from a decanter on
the table, and pushed it across to her. She
took it with an inclination of the head, drank it
off, and set down the glass.

I met liiiii near his imcle's house, and I
told him why I was there. He laughed at me,
and jeered me. '' You," he said, " are the
cast-off mistress of my cousin, and you are
here to try to beg from me. Nobody will
believe you, and everybody will believe me.
Go home again. I will not be hard with you.
Meet me at evening, and 1 will give you money
to go back with." I had told him I had no
money, and could not return. I bade him farewell
for the time, and I went away desperate,
having but one road to my revenge left open.
I looked at my stiletto often that afternoon,
but I should not have used it if it had not

been He spoke words to me which

nobody but a hound uses. I saw your friend
meet him whilst I waited. I saw your friend
log him like a slave.'

She enjoyed this recollection even now,
terrible as the moment was, and Baretti saw as
much.

'They fought at first, but Marco was
beaten, and the poor innocent acted like a man.
When he had broken his stick he left off and
went away. Then it became my turn, and I
went up and spoke to Marco. Up till then I
had been hidden, and neither of them had seen
me. I need not tell you what happened then.
Even then, if he had cared to be kind, I could
not have struck him. I thought he was dead
when I came away.'

Her bosom heaving with a slow tempestuous
swell, she stood silent, and at length Baretti
was constrained to speak.

All this is what I knew or guessed before.
If you have nothing more to tell me, I must
give you up at once to justice. For me,' he
added, with a momentary flash in his black
eyes, ' you might go free as air, but I have my
friend to save and his enemy to punish.'

His enemy to punish ! ' cried the woman,
in a passion so sudden and vivid that he started

at it as lie might have done at a flash of
lightning. ' His punishment is in my hands
She cooled again. 'Why have I stayed in
England, do you think, Signor Baretti ? ' He
could have answered that question from the
tone in which she put it, and the fire that
gleamed in her eyes. ' I could have been away
safe from pursuit long ago, for Tito had given
me money, and nobody at first suspected me.
Why did I follow you day after day ? Do you
think I do not know what I am going to?
I will tell you, Signor, why I stayed. When
I found he was not dead, I saw that I had not
thrown away all my revenge for a minute's
rage. I know why he charged his cousin with
the crime. It is his last blow to crush him,
and he thinks that he himself is safe. Now I
wait — for what? To hear him speak his lie
before the whole world, and when his lie has
triumphed to stand up there and drag him down
with it and ruin him.'

He has deserved all that,' said Baretti, half
to himself, ' and more.'

Yes,' she answered, calm and quiet again,
he has deserved it.'

The painter threw himself into a chair and
reviewed the situation. The Signora, uninvited,
poured out and drank a second glass of wine,
and then bestowed herself upon a sofa.
Baretti, looking once or twice to where she satin
shadow, could see her eyes gleaming, though
he could not make out another feature of her
face.

You are sure,' he said, rising and confronting
her after a lengthy pause, ' that you
are strong enough in your resolution to carry it
to the end?'

I am sure of that,' she answered.

I am not sure,' said Baretti.

If you knew how to hate,' returned the
lady, placidly enough, ' you would be.'

Possibly,' returned the painter. ' You will

understand, Signora, that I have no personal
quarrel with you. If Mr. Mark Carroll had
died, and my friend lead been in danger, I
should see you hanged to release him, very
gladly, but otherwise I should not have been
sorry to see you escape, and, knowing what I
know, might even have been tempted to assist
you. I am sorry to incommode you, but I
distrust your resolution, and if I refrain from
giving you up to the proper authorities at once,
I must at least see you in safe keeping. A very
excellent person happens to be known to me,
the wife of an English officer of police. She
is a person of resolution and courage equal
to your own, and I think I may entrust you
to her keeping. I am afraid you must consent
to be locked up in the interim. Or, better
still — I had an interview with Mr. Thomas
Carroll's lawyer this afternoon, and learned
from him that he would be at his offices
until long past the present hour. We will

consult him, and we will be bound by his
advice.'

I will go anywhere and do anything,' said
the Signora, rising and drawing her mantle
about her, ' if you will promise me one thing.
Signor, I am in your power, and I cannot make
conditions. I can only beg. Do not rob me
of this one thing. Let Marco accuse his cousin
before he knows that I am ready to deny
him.'

I think we can secure so much for you,
Signora,' said Baretti. ' In the meantime will
you accompany me ? '

He turned down the lamps again, and he
and the Signora left the house together unobserved.
Baretti's heart beat high with
triumph, and the vengeance the Signora proposed
to take upon Mark seemed to him — for
he, though a high-minded and most chivalrous
person in some things, was not a finished
Christian — suitable and befitting. For the present,

at least, he had no fear of Catherine
resolution, and no doubt of the honesty of her
professions. He drove her to the offices of the
man of law who had Tom Carroll's case in
charge, and for once in his life an old criminal
solicitor confessed himself amazed.

The criminal solicitor, whose name was
Cohen, had an eagle beak and an eagle eye.
He was not a finished Christian any more than
Baretti, and when once he had grasped the
story, he hailed the chance for a grand
theatrical coup, such as it offered, with much
gratification.

Does the young woman speak English ? '
he asked, turning an admiring eye on the
Signora, who sat in a dusky corner of his room.
Women, Mr. Baretti, are not to be handled
like men, and I entirely agree with you that
this young person should be taken care of imtil
the time arrives at which we can make use of
her evidence. In the meantime we had better

take her whilst she is in the mind, and make
her sign a statement. Wait a moment.'

He wrote busily for a minute, and having
finished, threw the sheet of foolscap over the
table to Baretti.

'Oblige me by turning that into Italian,
Mr. Baretti. I have one or two things to look
at in the meantime.'

Baretti read through the document.

I '■ the undersigned, hereby make

confession that on the 29th September last I
stabbed Mark Carroll, of Trench House, Over-hill,
in the County of Worcester. I declare
that I was a witness of the interview between
the said Mark Carroll and his cousin Thomas
Carroll, of Number Twenty, Montague Gardens,
London, West, at Overhill, on the 29th September
last, as aforesaid, and that no knife
was used in the conflict between them. As
witness my hand.'

When Baretti had translated this into

Italian, the solicitor took the translation and
rapidly wrote below it the original English,
leaving a wide space between.

Let her sign he said, casting the sheet
once more across the table, and the Signora,
marching in outward tranquillity to the table,
signed, with a firm hand, after reading the
document, and resumed her seat. ' Now, Mr.
Baretti,' said the lawyer, ' write, "- 1 declare
this to be a fair and just translation of the foregoing."
Thank you. Will you ask the young
woman if she is willing to submit herself to my
care during the next two or three days. I shall
keep her under lock and key and entrust her
to my housekeeper. Tell her that, if you
please.'

I understand,' said the Signora in English.
I shall not change my mind.'

Very well, my dear,' said Cohen, who was
a man of phlegm, ' You will keep your
counsel, Mr. Baretti. We seem to have to deal

with a very ready and unscrupulous scoundrel,
but I think we shall hoist him this time. You
may leave the lady in my care.'

I may let my friend know that he is safe?'
asked Baretti.

Oh, yes,' returned the solicitor. ' Ease his
mind, poor fellow. But don't let him blab,
even to a warder. It's a great case. I shall
come down to Worcester myself personally.
I am busy, but I can't afford to miss a thing
like this. One moment before you go, Mr.
Baretti. There is a public-house at the corner.
This document is not yet witnessed, and the
landlord has obliged me once or twice before.
Will you kindly ask him to step this way?
Thank you.'

Baretti was in the street in a moment,
thanking God with an uplifted heart for his
friend's deliverance. The Signora was out of
his thoughts for the time, and it was enough
for him to think just then that Tom Carroll

was already virtually a free man, and that the
just punishment of Mark's villany was creeping
nearer and nearer. The landlord of the corner
public-house did not seem in the least degree
to be surprised at the request Baretti had to
proffer, but got into his coat at once and
crossed to the office.

Put your hand to this, Mr. Shape,' said
the criminal solicitor. The landlord signed.
Thank you. Good evening.' And the man
was gone. ' Odd fellow that, Mr. Baretti,' said
the lawyer, with a laugh. ' There's scarcely a
document in the world that man will sign without
consulting me, unless it's a receipt for
money paid to him, but I believe — in fact I
know — that he would sign this confession in his
own name if I asked him to do it. Here's my
name as witness number two, and "now the
thing's complete. Good night, Mr. Baretti.
Rely on me to produce the lady at the proper
time and place.'

VOL. III. a

CHAPTER XXVIII.

Mr. Carroll, however disposed to play the

Spartan father, was not equal to an attendance

at the County Assizes, though, if he had been

called as a member of the Grand Jury, he had

strung himself up to go and do his duty. It is

not worth while to examine too closely into

human motives. The precise compound of

foolish pride and stubborn courage which

i supported him at this crisis have enabled

-passably great men to do really great things,

and will again. Mr. Carroll set his whole

soul on* the accomplishment of one impossibility.

He tried his hardest, whilst his only

son awaited his trial for attempted murder, to

behave as if nothing extraordinary were

happening. He failed, of course, and people
sympathised with him in proportion with his
effort and his failure.

One thing, at least, he contrived to do.
He attended to business precisely as of old —
missed no engagement, muddled no bargain.

On the morning of the trial he addressed
his nephew :

Nephew Mark. You will have occasion
to be in town to-day. Make a deposit for me,
if you please, at the County Bank. If you
cast your eye over the papers here, you will
understand everything.'

Mark bowed sympathetically, and took the
papers indicated. Mr. Carroll retired to his
own room and bore his miseries in secret,
whilst his nephew made his simple preparations
for the brief journey before him Mark's
occasional ventures abroad since his disaster
had been accompanied by much curious sympathy,
and now almost everybody in the
G 2

village found casual business on the road
between Trench House and Overhill railway-station,
or on the platform itself. He rode
down to the station in a closed carriage, and
the station-master found him a private room
on his arrival. When the train drew up to
the platform the local policeman and the
porter (temporarily sent down to supply the
place of the official who had to give evidence
of the discovery of the wounded man) had
much ado to clear a line for Mark to the door
of the first-class compartment reserved for him.
Hats went off on all sides amid a subdued ^
respectful murmur. ' Glad to see you about
again, sir,' ' Glad to see you about again,'
Don't he look pale, poor feller,' and the like.
Poor Master Thomas,' said one, whom Mark
overheard. ' He have brought his pigs to a
pretty market, haven't he ? '

This was a foretaste of what was going to
happen all his life long in the future. Mark

was resolved on being a popular landlord when
he came to his own, and he was starting with
the sympathy and approbation of everybody
in the district. Things had happened very
fortunately for him, and he was willing to
admit to himself that nothing could have
chanced more luckily than that Caterina should
turn up on the night of Tom's revenge, and
thus give the doubly assailed one his only
chance of repaying the assailed. Mark had
a faculty which is sometimes erroneously
supposed to belong to sympathetic people : he
could project himself pretty fairly into another
man's mind, and coidd partly tell what was
going on there under given conditions. He
could, in some degree, comprehend the rage
and wonder in Tom's heart at this accusation
of his, and he could look at the whole matter
from all the points he knew of without prejudice.
Conscience was silent. Conscience is the
monitor of failure. It is the defeated rascal

whose heart is gnawn by the keen tooth of her
reproach, not the prosperous. Nor did he
hate Tom overmuch after all, in spite of the
wrong he had done and the wrong he meant
to do him. Tom was in his way and must
be put out of it. Mark was pleased and
soothed by the sense of his own mastery of
the situation, and the state of his mind might
fairly be described as judicial — with this understanding
— that whatever was good for Mark
Carroll was just.

As he rode along he examined the papers
his uncle had entrusted to his care. It was
not disagreeable for the heir expectant to discover
that he held between two and three
thousand pounds in his fingers. Lately he was
beginning to know pretty well what his uncle
was worth, and the knowledge was satisfactory.
The substantial lump he had now in his possession
felt absolutely like his own. He smiled
to think that at one time not very distant he

might have been tempted to run away with so
large a sum. There was no temptation now.
There was nothing to run away from, nothing
to run away to. He had everything he hoped
for — money, luxury, social state, and the power
to crush his sole rival.

One of the Trench House servants rode
in the same train, and on his arrival at the
county town stepped forward and secured a
conveyance for him. Mark drove at once to
the Assize Court, where a seat was found for
him. It was not often that a county has the
luck to listen to such a case as the great Carroll
scandal, and, as a matter of course, the house
was filled. Mark was still a trifle pale, and was
generally considered to look 'interesting.' The
county ladies were present in shoals, and their
pretty toilettes Ht up the dingy old building
imtil it looked like a flower-show. They
levelled their opera-glasses at the prosecutor in
this most attractive case, and most of them

admired him. It may be confessed that
Mark's demeanour was almost perfect, the
dominant thereof being a manly seriousness, as
of one who knew the terrible character of the
day, but was calmly possessed of himself and
tranquilly resolute to do his duty.

The case before the jury when Mark
entered was one of arson, an unusual crime
in that peaceful district, and one which in
other circumstances would have been watched
with great interest. Now nobody listened toit,
and the very gentlemen of the jury had but
one eye apiece for the witnesses and reserved
the other for Mark Carroll. The case
against the incendiary was as clear as day, and
an hour or two after the opening of the court
a verdict of ' Guilty ' was returned. The man
was sentenced and led away amidst a stir and
buzz, which referred, not to him, but to the
great case of the Assize, now approaching.

Wigged heads went together in the well of

the court, and papers were rustled to and fro
on the table. The judge laid by his notes of
the arson case, and tried a new quill on his
thumb nail. There was everywhere a little
audible flutter, and with all necks craned
and all eyes strained to look at him the
prisoner walked into the dock. He bowed
to the judge, and then, with both hands on
the rail, he scanned the court. At first he was
so absorbed in looking for Baretti that he had
no time to notice how everybody was staring
at him, but when he had once found his friend,
and exchanged glances with him, the knowledge
that he was there as a sort of raree
show came home to him, and he had to bear
it as best he could. There was comfort in
Baretti's look, which was undisguisedly triumphant.


The clerk of arraigns challenged the
prisoner in the old legal jargon, the prisoner
pleaded ' Xot Guilty,' Counsel in a score or

two of dry sentences expounded the charge,
and the play began.

Henry Leggatt, in answer to the gentle
leading of the counsel for the Crown , deposed
that he was station-master at Overhill. That
he was well acquainted with the prisoner.
That on the night of September 29th last, he
saw the prisoner at the railway station at
Overhill, his clothes being at that time
strangely disordered, and his hands and the
wristbands of his shirt covered with blood.
That the prisoner directed him to Marston's
Spinney to look for Mr. Mark Carroll, who
might be in need of assistance, stating that he
(prisoner) had half killed him. That witness ,
in company with Philip Piggott, railway
porter, obeyed the instructions of the prisoner,
and on arriving at Marston Spinney, found
many evidences of a severe struggle, and at
last, being guided by his groaning, discovered
Mr. Mark Carroll with the ivory handle of a

dagger sticking out of him. (Dagger produced.)
That Dr. Marks being summoned
came at once, accompanied by Dr. Morton,
and the injured man was conveyed to Trench
House.

Cross-examined: Eemembered distinctly
that a foreign-looking woman arrived by train
at Overhill on the morning of the day in
question. Eemembered to have seen her and
Mr. Mark Carroll in conversation. Spoke to
Mr. Mark about it. Was informed by Mr.
Mark that this lady was in Overhill to look
after Mr. Thomas — the prisoner. Remembered
Mr. Thomas arriving by a later train.
Eemembered also that having known Mr.
Thomas for many years, and having always had
a liking for him, he warned him of the lady' s
presence in the village. Would know the
lady again among a thousand. Portrait produced
was undoubtedly a good likeness.

This line of cross-examination seemed to

Mark to betoken unpleasant things ; but lie
was prepared to have aspersions cast upon him,
and, on reflection, he could see that a defence
of that sort was no defence at al], and would
recoil on the heads of those who used it. To
try to blacken a man's character after sticking
a dagger into him ! He could already in fancy
see and hear the style in which a British judge
and a British jury would resent that infamy.

Philip Piggott, porter at Overhill railway
station, being examined, in part confirmed
the evidence of the first witness. Counsel for
the prisoner declined to cross-examine.

Drs. Marks and Morton gave evidence as to
the call to attend the wounded man and the
nature of his injuries. Under cross-examination
confessed themselves certain, or thereabouts,
that with the one marked exception, all
the injuries were inflicted with a walking-stick,
the fragments of which were found within a
yard or two of the evident scene of conflict.

The way liavinsj been thus made clear and
straight for the hero of the day, Mark Carroll
was called and put into the witness-box. The
light in Baretti's face discomfited him for a
moment, but ]ie settled down to his business,
and o'ave his evidence with a crave distinctness
and an absence of apparent malice which gained
him high credit with the court.

This,' said the counsel for the Crown, ' is
a painful case, and I shall be compelled to ask
you some painful questions.'

Mark inclined his head in assent to this,
and the examination-in-cliief began. It took
Mark back to the quarrel between the prisoner
and his father, and led on past Mark's adoption
by Mr. Carroll to the great libel case. Then it
became more direct and particular.

'You recollect the night of the 29th September
last ? '

Vividly,' said Mark.

Ejndly relate what happened.'

Mark had received from the prisoner a
letter (produced) asking for money, and
begging that it might be brought to an hotel
in the town. Having reason to suspect the
prisoner's purpose, he did not go. Thereupon
the prisoner came to Overhill, and was there
encountered, accidentally, by the witness. A
conversation took place between them, in the
course of which Mark felt it his duty to exhort
the prisoner to an amended way of life. He
promised in view of such an amendment as he
prayed for to use his best efforts to bring about
a reconciliation between the prisoner and his
father, though he admitted he did not think
the task a hopeful one. The prisoner charged
him excitedly with having poisoned his father's
mind against him, and attempted to strike him
across the face with the walking-stick he
carried. The witness declared that he had
defended himself as well as he could, but,
being at length partially stunned by a heavy

blow on the head, and thereby felled to the
ground, vas savagely beaten as he lay.
Finally, he declared that when the prisoner's
walking-stick was broken by the violence of
his blows, and he, the witness, was struggling
to his feet, the prisoner drew a dagger from his
breast pocket. A struggle ensued, in which
witness was powerless to avert the prisoner's
intent. In the course of that struggle he
asked, ' Do you mean to kill me, Tom ? '
and the prisoner answered, 'By God, I do!'
Witness was then stabbed, and lost consciousness.


The thing was as plain as a pike-staff, and
when the counsel for the Crown resumed his
seat the jury in their own minds had found the
prisoner guilty. But now arose the counsel
for the defence, and hitching his gown and
playing with the papers on the table, looked
suavely for a minute at the witness and
began :

When did it first enter your mind, Mr.
Carroll, to bring this charge against your
cousin ? '

Not,' said Mark, ' until the medical men
pronounced me out of danger.'

What was the reason of that delay ? '

I thought, sir,' Mark answered, with a
certain reluctant magnanimity, ' that my uncle
the prisoner's father — had endured enough
already.'

'You wished that the prisoner should
escape punishment ? '

That was partly my reason for silence .'

That was partly your reason. Let us
know it all, if you please.'

If I had died, sir,' said Mark gravely and
gently, with downcast eyes, ' the prisoner's
position would have been different. I was
silent, not from consideration for him so much
as for his father.'

Do you know, Mr. Carroll, that you stand

here in a singularly favourable light in consequence
of that statement ? '

I know nothing of that,' said Mark, simply.
^ T acted for the best.'

I am sure you did,' returned the counsel,
warmly.

The listeners wondered for the most part,
but the judge and one or two of counsel's intimates,
who knew his ways, began to look for
something to arise from ail this sympathetic
suavity.

Can you guess, Mr. Carroll,' he began,
after a little pause, ' how much you owe the
prisoner in money .^ ' Mark looked inquiry,
Before your uncle dismissed the prisoner from
his confidence and adopted you, how much
money had you borrowed froixi him ? '

From the prisoner ? ' said Mark. ' Several
hundred pounds, I believe.'

Until he himself became impoverished,

VOL. III. TI

and whilst you were poor, he was uniformly
generous to you, I believe ? '

He was,' said Mark, ' uniformly generous

Did you offer to repay him when he
applied to you ? '

I was perfectly ready to repay him,'
returned Mark. ' That question did not
arise.'

Oh ! ' said counsel. ' What was the purport
of his visit to you ? '

The result proved the purport,' answered
Mark.

Then your cousin came down to Overhill
prepared to make a murderous assault upon

you?'

I am forced to believe so.'
What was his motive for that ? '
He appeared to conceive that 1 had purposely
supplanted him in his father's affections.*
Was there — is there any truth in that
belief?'

'None whatever.'

You have not made it a systematic practice
to blacken your cousin's character for your
own gain ? '

I have not. On the contrary, I have
made excuses for him.'

'When he needed none,' said counsel.
A most efficient mode of libel.'

This was the first thrust he gave, and Mark
stood a little discomfited at its suddenness and
keenness. JSTot that the discomfiture showed
even for a moment.

I am assuming motives, Mr. Carroll,' the
counsel continued, ' and that is a thing I have
no right to do. But now I must ask you one
or two questions to which I must invite your
particular attention. You know the Signora
Malfi?'

I have met her.'

'Is this a recognisable portrait of that
lady ? Pray look at it carefully.'

H -1

It is, to the best of my remembrance, a
portrait of the lady.'

Was Signora Malfi in the village of Over-hill
on the 29th September last? '

There was nothing but destruction to begot
by denying this — little enough to be lost if
he confessed it. Besides, Leggatt, the stationmaster,
had sworn to his meeting; her.

*■ I met her there.'

Kindly tell us what her business was.'

So far as she let me know it, she was
there in search of a gentleman who, according
to her statement, had wronged her.'

Who was that gentleman ? '

I am not responsible for these questions,'
said Mark. 'I will answer if you press
me.'

Who was that gentleman ? '

The prisoner.'

Were you anxious to spare him that
revelation ? '

• I was anxious to avoid the publication of
a new scandal.'

Was that why you volunteered the statement
to Leggatt, the station-master ? '

I offered that statement in self-defence.'

Signora Malfi was never your mistress,
Mr. Carroll ? '

Never.'

• Do you know why she parted from her
husband ? '

I did not even know that she was married.'
Mark had no sooner said this than he saw the
folly of it, and hastened to qualify it : ' I know
that she lived with an operatic tenor who bore
the name of Malfi ; but I am informed that
they were never married.'

Married or not married, do you know why
they parted ? '

I do not.'

Brother Crawford,' said the judge, ' I
presume that all this is germane to the case ? *

Absolutely, my lord. Attend, Mr. Carroll.
Did Signor Malfi ever visit your
chambers in the Temple to search for this
lady ? '

He did,' answered Mark. ' I threw my
rooms open to him. He examined them all,
and went away again.'

The lady was not there ? '

The lady was not there.'

Upon your oath ? '

Upon my oath.'

You did not conceal her in the adjoining
set of chambers? Come, Mr. Carroll, courage
is a good thing in its way, but I am not questioning
in the dark.'

I am here to answer any questions you
may put to me,' Mark answered. Cool as he
was, his head began to whirl, and the palms
of his hands grew moist. Had they caught
the Signora and forced her to confess ? He
dismissed that awful fancy as pure nonsense ;

but why did the man hang round about her
name in this way ?

Did you conceal her in an adjoining set of
chambers during Signor Malfi's visit ? '

I did not;

Did you afterwards contemptuously dismiss
her, saying that she had been an agreeable toy
to you, but that you did not care to have an
Italian dagger in your ribs for her sake ? '

Nothing of the sort took place.'

Did you ever profess any attachment for
her?'

'Never.'

Now, was it yourself and not your cousin
whom she came to see at Overhill ? '

She told me she was seeking for my
cousin.'

After your cousin had broken his walking-cane
over you, did you meet the lady by
appointment previously made ? '

'No.'

Did she tell you that she had been witness
to the well-merited thrashing you had received ? '

All this,' said Mark, desperately, ' is pure
fabrication.'

Did she upbraid you with your own broken
promises to her ? '

No such interview took place.'

Did she finally stab you in answer to an
opprobrious epithet from your lips ? '

The prisoner stabbed me.'

Were you afraid to reveal the real criminal,
because the reason for her crime would have
blotted your own reputation ? '

There is no truth in any of these guesses.'
The awful fancy dismissed five minutes ago as
pure nonsense was here again, but to go back
was impossible. Perhaps Tom had seen the
thing done. This reflection was a great reef,
for the prisoner's mouth was closed by law.
That was the evident truth of the case. Tom
had seen it all, and had supplied his counsel

with the truth, but without evidence his tale
was worthless. Flora that moment Mark felt
safe.

Did you finally resolve to prefer the
charge against your cousin to be revenged for
the thrashing he had given you ? '

I preferred the charge with reluctance —
great reluctance. I was moved to it by no
sentiment of revenge.'

You were perfectly in the possession of
your faculties when the blow was struck ? '

Perfectly.'

I will give you a chance to shelter yourself
yet. There was no possibility of any
hallucination in your mind at that moment ? '

None

'You swear solemnly that your cousin,
Thomas Carroll, struck the blow with that dagger
which was afterwards found in your body ? '

I swear that.'

You swear that no interview took place

between Caterina Mali and yourself that
evening? '

I swear that.'

The counsel resumed his seat, the barrister
who acted for the Crown Avaved a hand of
dismissal to the prosecutor, and arose murmuring:—


Case for prosecution is completed, my lord

Before Mark had left the box Crawford
was on his feet again. His eyes flashed and
his voice rang like a trumpet.

Call Caterina Malfi/

One Cohen, eagle-beaked and eagle-eyed,
rose from his seat in the court at this cry, and
made a gesture. All the court rose with him,
and there was heard a murmur of amazement.
Baretti cast one glance of triumphant hate at
Mark, and a second later waved his hand with
a swift and vivid gesture at the prisoner. Mark
clutching the rail of the witness-box turned
white, and a sickly tremor shook him with" an

anguish so terrible that even in that moment his
villainies were punished.

The crowd to the left rear of the dock
parted slowly, and a face took every eye and
held it. Pale lips, tight-clenched, swarthy
cheeks without one touch of red, great black
eyes blazing with inward fire, nostrils dilating
and contracting. Revenge in person.

Mark fell rather than walked out of the
witness-box. In full possession of his physical
strength he could have borne this better, but he
was only a week or two from his sick bed, and
the tremendous shock unmanned him. Caterina
saw him, and before Mark disappeared from the
box their eyes met. He knew long since that
he had no hope of mercy in her if she could
take him once upon the hip, but he had always
laughed at her. He knew now that he had
nothing to hope from any fear in her. She
would have walked to certain death to ruin
him, and he could read that in her look.

The wave of faces in the court subsided
and settled down to its old level. The Signora
stood in the box, the sworn interpreter of the
court was summoned, the oath was administered,
and the counsel for the defence confronted the
witness.

What is your name ? '
Caterina Torriani.'
'NotMalfi?'

'No.'

'You remember the night of the 29th of
September last ? '
Yes.'

Where were you on that night ? '
At a place called Overhill.'

For what purpose were you there .^ '
I was there to be revenged upon M^xk
Carroll.'

For what.'

We met,' said the Signora, ' nearly two
years ago.' And from that beginning she told

her story. Sentence by sentence the sworn
interpreter of the court turned it into dull
English, which made it none the less terrible
in the telling. The silence of the place was
marvellous, until she related how Mark once
upon a time had brought his cousin with him
as a blind for Malfi, and then a murmur ran
round the court and died. She went on calmly
with both hands clenched tightly upon her
bosom — in a voice which never faltered and
with a face which never changed, until she
reached the scene at Overhill. Then once or
twice she paused, and in spite of her restraining
hands her bosom rose and fell like a wave.
Her speech was made the slower by the fact
that the judge took a full note of it, the interpreter
waiting with one hand raised towards her
and his eye upon the judge, until each sentence
was written. When the pen stopped the interpreter
looked towards her, and she let fall
another sentence.

I had made up my mind to kill him.'

Pause and dead silence, broken only by the
scratching of the judge's quill. ' But I loved
him, and had to wait until he provoked me. I
begged him to remember his old promises. He
jeered at me. At last he called me '

What did he call you ? '

One swift wave of crimson passed over her
face and left her pale again. She spoke the
word.

Insulting epithet, my lord,' said the interpreter.
' Equivalent to street-walker.'

What happened then ? '

I had my dagger ready and I stabbed him.'

What is your object in coming here ? '

To ruin him.'

Do you know the consequences of this act
to yourself ? '

'Yes.'

Do you know that you are liable to imprisonment
for life ? '

Yes.'

And you surrender yourself to justice ? '

Yes.'

That is the case for the defence, my lord.'

'My lord,' cried the foreman of the jury,
I beg to call your attention to the fact that
the prosecutor has left the court.'

I have to ask for an authority for Mark
Carroll's arrest on a charge of wilful and corrupt
perjury,' said Crawford, rising again.

Certainly,' said the judge, as if the thing
were a matter of every day.

My lord,' said the foreman, rising a second
time, ' we are ready with our verdict.'

'How" say you, gentlemen of the jury?'
began the clerk of arraigns, and on the heels
of his mumbled ' Guilty or Xot Guilty ? ' the
foreman rapped out : —

Not Guilty ! '

The court was filled with the noise of unrestrained
applause, as Baretti struggled to

the dock and clasped Tom's hands across the
rail. A minute later the door of the dock was
unbarred, and the fiery Italian's arms were
about his friend's neck.

His debt was not yet paid, but he had at
least begun to pay it.

CHAPTEE XXIX.

When Mark slipped out of court it was
nobody's business to stop him. A quarter of
an hour liter he would have been bustled and
roughly treated, but so far nothing had
occurred to awaken popular anger. Amazement
there was in plenty, and expectation in
plenty, but as yet no rage. So he walked out
quietly, unmolested.

As he stood upon the outer steps of the
building he felt suddenly fugitive and outcast.
There was not a hope he had had in the
world, but that morning's work had wrecked it.

I must bolt,' he said to himself, ' and that
right early.' His shoulder was sensitive to a
phantom hand which might at any moment
VOL. III. I

become real. He walked in apparent quiet
down the steps, and for a hundred yards or
so along the street. Turning then into a
by-way, he encountered the vehicle which had
carried him from the railway station to the
court.

If you're not engaged,' he said to the
driver, 'I should like a little drive into the
country. I want a breath of fresh air after
that crowded court.'

Yes, sir,' said the man, ' which way ? '

Out here will do,' said Mark, and entered

the coach. The man turned the horse's head

and drove off at a stolid jog-trot. ' I am not

learned in the laws of this cursed country,'

said the fare to himself, ' though I was bred

to the Bar, but I suppose they'll want me at

once.' He lit a cigar and leaned back out of

observation's way, trying to think. He cursed

Tom, the Signora, his uncle's money, himself,

and whatever else he thought of. He saw

already how powerless lie was to defy the
terror he himself had raised. To have stayed
behind and contemptuously to have denied the
Signora's story, would not that have been
wiser than to have run away at once? He
could drive back still. No ! He was too late.
He should have thought of that at first. To
have left the court on her appearance was
damnatory. A charge of perjury against himself
— a counter charge of perjury against
Cater ina — a charge of conspiracy against her
and Tom and Baretti — ^Baretti was in the
smm, as his face of triumph made manifest.
All this would have given time to run away
at ease. His thoughts travelled in irregular
circles Hke a straw in an eddy. But with
every whirl they gave, he remembered one
thing — he was ruined.

Mark's opinion used to be that he had
never been a fool except in a way in which
it is permitted even to wise men to infringe
1 'I

on the domain of folly, but now it began to
occur to him that he had been a fool at large ;
an uncomfortable reflection. You cannot
reconstruct a life's philosophy in a minute,
but Mark's tablets of commandment were
smashed to pieces, and he was already prowling
amid the shards to hunt up material fora
new version. Logically, his old post of
Cynic and Self-lover was as tenable as ever;
but it was Fate who had dislodged him, and
she will not be reasoned with. What if
honesty were the best policy after all ? If
there were something in human affairs, or
outside them, which made it impossible fora
man successfully to defy certain recognised
rules ? When Mark had been lying between
life and death doubts of a similar nature had
occurred to him. Now that he was ruined,
and his schemes were broken and his enemies
triumphant, the doubts came back again.
Tne gambler has no suspicion of his infallible

system whilst he wins, but Avhen the tide of
fortune turns against it, he beams to suspect
its virtues. And the system should be above
suspicion when you stake your immortal soul
ind mortal welfare.

He tried to keep) his head clear of these
fancies, and to get an unobstructed view of
the situation as it concerned himself To kill
Tom or Caterina, or both of them, would have
been pleasurable, he thought, but he had still
self-possession enough to smile at that as a
longing after the unattainable. Besides, Mark
was not a good hater. His blood was cold.
He despised better than he hated; and now,
at least, the one thing he had to do was to
steer clear of immediate dangers. Suddenly
he remembered the papers entrusted to him
that morning by his uncle, and he began to
examine them anew. They made a somewhat
bulky little parcel for an inner pocket, even
when folded in the most convenient way, and

a hasty observation showed him that they
were mainly worthless to him, though of value
to his uncle. There were two hundred and
fifty pounds in notes, and there was a cheque
made payable to Thomas Carroll by one
Septimus Hardwicke for twelve hundred and
thirteen pounds, and countersigned by the said
Thomas Carroll. This cheque, as Mark knew,
was given in payment for a strip of building
land. If he dare go back to the town and
present himself at the bank, he knew very well
that he could have it cashed at once. Fourteen
hundred and sixty-three pounds was enough
to start the world with. If he had so much
saved out of the fire he might begin to think
himself fortunate, after aU. He put his head
through the window of the four-wheeler, and
addressed the driver : —

I think you may as well turn back
now.' But his heart failed him even ashe
spoke. 'Never mind. Drive on a bit

further. Iii': there a country hotel out this
way?'

Fox and Hounds, sh,' said cabby. ' Two
Diile further on, sir.'

All right; returned Mark. ' Drive fine
there.' Cabby touched up the horse again,
and away they went. ' Was there ever,' Mark
asked himself, ' such infernal luck as mine ?
What an ass I am. Why didn't I drive straight
to the bank after leaving that confounded
court ? As well be hanged for a sheep as a
lamb. Perjury followed by fraudulent bailee.
By God, Mark, you're a pretty fellow, and a
very pretty reputation you'll leave behind you.'

No pretence of not caring was likely to
avail him much, and by-and-by he lay ba(;k ina
sullen desperation, through which a Ht of
cursing broke now and again,* as some nasty
creature breaks now and then the surface of
'a sewer stream. His cogitations came in effect
to this — that he was played out, exposed, and

(most likely) at that moment, hunted. His
enemies would burn to get hold of hrni, and
the one good turn he had it in his power to do
himself was to let them burn in vain. It would
probably take him all he knew to get away.

He began to grow cool again, and his
fears awoke his cunning. He thought of everything
that safety could possibly hang upon.
The driver pulled up at the Fox and Hounds
and he found that the landlord knew him,
though he had not been there For years and
years. He called for a glass of brandy, gave
the driver his choice of drinks, and said that
he would stretch his legs by a little Avalk.

You can get something to eat, driver,' he
said, carelessly tossing half-a-sovereign to the
man. ' We'll see about the change when I crew
back again. You can give the horse a mouthful
of hay, too. Be ready to start in an hour.'

Mark lit a cigar, and walked along the
country road. If ev(jr he had known this

district he had forgotten it, and knew nothing
more than that it took him from the scene of
his disaster.

I'd better have stuck to her,' he thought,
as the Signora came into his mind. ' She must
have been damnably fond of me to turn round
like that

He walked on for a long time until he came
to a country railway-station near a level crossing.
The time-table pasted against a board at
the station wall was consulted, and he learned
by reference to this watch that a train started
in half an hour. He chose some inconsiderable
place to ask a ticket for, and in due time was
carried thither. Arrived, he went with simulated
bustle to the hotel, gave a fictitious name
and address at the bar, and requested that
certain packages should be preserved for lira
when they arrived. Then, over a glass of
brandy and water in the parlour, he looked at a
Gazetteer and found out where he was. This

done he called for a fly to a neighbouring
village, the very name of which had until then
been strange to him, and reaching it after a
four or five miles' drive, paid the fly and dined,
and studied the local Gazetteer anew.

If they follow me now, they will find a
check here and there,' he said to himself, ' and ]
must have an hour or two before they get on.
the scent at all. Nothing so wide and safe london.'


Dinner over, he entered into affable conversation
with the host.

You can let me have a bed here to-nigh,
landlords'

^ Certainly, sir

I haven't any luggage with me,' said Mark .
so I'll pay you before-hand. How much ? "

High teen-pence, sir.'

Great changes here since I used to know
the place,' said Mark. The Gazetteer hi-wi
primed him.

Ay, sir ? ' said the landlord. ' As how ? '

Oh, I don't mean the village, but the
neighbourhood. Finding coal at Lecky, for
instance, and running the railway through
Welton,'

Yes, sir,' said the landlord. ' Great
changes.'

Let me see,' said Mark, ' Welton's out that
way, isn't it .^ '

Lord bless you, no sir,' answered the landlord,
pointing out the way directly opposite,
that's the Welton Road. Past the church out
there, sir, and then it lies due west. At this
time o' year the sun sets over Welton from
here.'

Odd how a man forgets places,' said Mark,
and, fresh from his study of the Gazetteer, he
asked a question or two and made a statement
or tvvo, to all of which the landlord answered
willingly enough.

The fugitive had paid for his dinner as well

as his bed, and when the evening dusk came
on, he bought a cigar at the bar, and again
announced his intention of stretching his legs.
They had been pretty well stretched already,
and he was beginning to feel tired.

If by any miracle they should follow me
so far as this to-night,' he thought, as he strolled
along the village street, ' they will rely upon
my coming back to bed there. It's likely
enough that I am piling up more precautions
than I need, but there's no knowing, and I am
not going to throw a chance away.'

He walked on doggedly to Welton, and
there found himself at a branch station of the
Great Western Railway . He booked for Oxford
and slept there. In the morning he bought a
second-hand portmanteau — a new one looked
suspicious to his eyes — and having provided
himself with a few necessaries, he studied the
hotel Bradshaw carefully, and selected a roundabout
route for London. At the railway station

he saw ' The Carroll Stabbing Case. Extraordinary
Revelations. Scene in Court,' on one
newspaper bill ; and on another ' Melodrama
in High Life. Carroll Stabbing Case. Startling
Evidence.' He crowded the great Eastern
Question out of the bills, and he knew that for
one day at least he was the best advertised man
in Europe.

He bought the journals and took his place
in a first-class carriage. He read the account
of yesterday's doings in three or four different
forms, and he listened behind the sheet whilst
his fellow-travellers talked of him. Each of
the papers had a leading article upon him, and
he was as famous as Gladstone or Bismarck.
Phenomenal vengeance ' on the part of
Caterina, ' phenomenal wickedness ' on the
part of Mark Carroll, ' extraordinary escape '
of Tom Carroll from the snares spread for him
by the phenomenal cousin. The writers of the
daily press had not often met with such a

theme, wide as is the field they hunt in, and
rich as it is in surprising incident. Crimes in
plenty they confessed they knew — criminals
were, unhappily, as plentiful as blackberries ;
but crimes and criminals of this amazing stamp
were rare. Thus Mark had such a chance as
rarely falls to the lot of any man of seeing himself
as other people saw him. All the writers
were duly cautious, too, and qualified themselves
with suppositions. ' If the evidence of
this woman can be accepted ' — ' If we may
argue from the sudden disappearance of the
prosecutor ' — and so on. Mark saw how little
these reservations were needed, but he was
behind the scenes. In the railway carriage
everybody denounced him in terms so unmeasured
that a downright terror began to assail
him. If he were seen and recognised by any
chance acquaintance, a mob might tear him into
pieces. He began to see that murder would
have made him less odious in the general mind.

By the route he had chosen it took hmi
nearly the whole day to reach London, and
\\r passed every hour in fear, and in a grim
defiance of his own tremors. He entered
London by the Surrey side, and dined at an
ill-provided restaurant in company with an
evening paper. He learned from its columns
all that had been done in the search after himself,
and he read once more the translation of
Caterina's evidence. He discovered that the
rtyman had not returned until late at night,
and that then, learning the truth, he had
volunteered a statement to the police, who had
traced the fugitive as far as Welton, from which
place he was believed to have taken a ticket to
< oxford. He put down the paper and forced
liiraself to eat a few morsels of food, but the
news-sheet drew his eyes by a sort of fascination,
and he read on. The amount of money
;end money's value with which he had been
entrusted on the morning of the trial was set

down, and the very number of the notes he
carried. He was alone in the restaurant, and,
with a furtive look round the place, he drew
his pocket-book from his breast — the heavier
papers were stowed away in the portmanteau
at his feet — and by a glance at the notes
verified the reporter's statement.

At that moment the door opened, and
whilst he somewhat hurriedly put back the
flimsy papers, there entered from the street a
stout and personable man with a white tie, a
hat modelled on the lines of the head-dress
worn by Bishops, and a smile in which the
most careless passer-by might read humility
and benevolence. The new comer gave a start
on seeing Mark, and Mark looked at him with
a face that had suddenly grown ghastly.
Humility and benevolence vanished from the
stout man's face, and he marched forward
after a second's hesitation, and held out his
hand.

'This is indeed an unexpected pleasure,
Mr. Warner.'

Mark took the proffered hand, but his own
lay in it cold as death.

I do not think,' said the stout man, ' that
anything in the world could have afforded me
so much pleasure as this unexpected interview.
I use this little house regularly, Mr. Warner,
but I never expected that I should see you
within these humble precincts. I should suppose
it to be worth two or three thousand
pounds to me to meet you here at this interesting
juncture.'

Not quite as much as that, Bethesda,' said
Mark, recovering a little. ' Father than pay
so much as that for so cheap a pleasure, 1
would blow your brains out to begin with and
follow with my own.'

Mr. Bethesda applied his hand to a gong
which lay upon the table, and, a dirty waiter
answering this summons, the good man called

VOL. III. K

for a cup of chocolate. Wlieii the waiter had
supplied this he lingered, and Bethesda stirred
the contents of the cup with his spoon, and took
an occasional sip at it and an occasional look
at Mark, who by this time had got his banknotes
back into his pocket and was looking
blindly at the newspaper.

Waiter,' said Mr. Bethesda, calmly and
blandly, ' get me a hansom cab in five
minutes' time, if you please. Just look outside
and stop the first that passes.'

Might look for a week,' said the waiter,
and not see a hansom go by here, sir.'

A four-wheeler will do,' replied Bethesda.
'The waiter sauntered to the door. ' I shall
!be glad to see you beneath my humble roof,
Mr. Warner,' said the good man, when he and
Mark were thus left alone again.

'I am obliged to you,' said Mark, sardonically.


After this Mr. Bethesda held his peace until

the ^vaite^ announced the discovery and arrest
of a four-wheeled cab, when he disbursed his
twopence, gave the man a halfpenny, and stood
bv whilst Mark paid for his own miserable and
scarcely-tasted meal. Then the good man
begged leave to help Mark with his portmanteau,
and walked behind him stealthily, like a
fat cat with a rat in custody. Mark entered
the vehicle first, Mr. Bethesda having instructed
the driver, followed, and the two facing each
other were driven through the streets together.
Mark leaning back scanned his companion's
countenance furtively, and once or twice encountered
his smiling look.

The journeys was not a long one, but it
gave Mark time to turn himself round in.

Is this your house, Bethesda ? ' he asked,
when the cab stopped. ' Are you married or
single ? I forget.'

I am a single man,' said Bethesda, who at
that moment was leaning forward to open the
K 2

cab door, so that Lis face was brought near to
Mark's. ' I am a single man at present, Mr.
Warner, but I do not hive alone.' He smiled
as he said this, not quite so amiably as usual,
and Mark's eyes glittered wickedly. When
they alighted, Mr. Bethesda, keeping an eye on
his companion, proceeded to unlock the door,
and fumbled so much with the key that Mark
lost patience, and taking it irritably from his
fingers, turned it in the lock and flung the door
open. The passage on which they entered was
dusk, and Mr. Bethesda stood in the doorway
whilst he called for a light. In point of fact,
Mr. Bethesda's prisoner was growing more
resolute and assured in manner, and Mr.
Bethesda himself was becoming a little timorous.
Mark observed the change in his captor's
manner, and was quick to take advantage of it.
Don't stand there like an ass,' he said,
quietly. ' Come indoors. It isn't worth my
while to commit murder yet.'

Notwithstanding this assurance, Mr. Bethesda
forbore to close the door, but waited until a
maid-servant appeared from the lower part of
the house with a candle. Then he not merely
closed the door, but bolted it at top and bottom.
He also locked it with a big inside key, which
he withdrew from the lock and handed to
the servant.

Take care of that until I ask for it,' he
said. The girl stared from him to the key and
from the key to him, but said nothing. ' You
may light the gas in the back room, Eliza.
Thank you. Now you may go. You may
save yourself the trouble of looking through
the keyhole, Eliza,' he added, as the girl
retired, * because I shall be opening the door
pretty constantly at unexpected moments.'

Now we can talk to each other,' said
Mark. ' We may as well have our explanation
at once.'

Precisely,' said Bethesda. For a full

minute there was silence, each waiting for the
other to begin. Bethesda's patience gave way
first. ' I am very glad to see you here, Mr.
Warner, because you bled me pretty freely
once upon a time, and I am not so wealthy as
I was. You are in possession of a decent sum
of money now, according to the newspapers,
and I rather fancy you are in a position to
repay me.'

In plain English, Bethesda,' said Mark,
you think I am in your hands, and that you
can do what you like with me ? '

Precisely,' said Bethesda.

It was necessary that we should come to
an understanding, since chance threw us
together,' Mark began, ' and we can arrive at
it more comfortably here than elsewhere.
When we have arrived at our understanding,
you will see under what an error you brought
me here. You have read the great Carroll
case in the newspapers, no doubt ? '

I thought I had told you so,' returned
Bethesda.

I have made a mistake, Bethesda,' Mark
Avent on, ' which any man might have made,
and it proved fatal to my plans. It not only
proved fatal to my plans, but it set me in a
very awkward corner, and exposed me to
popular prejudice. Xow, trading on my
knowledge of that popular prejudice, you
think to frighten me. If your own hands
were clean, Bethesda, you might do it. But
we are blackguards both, and if you threaten
to expose me, I threaten to expose you. Weare
pot and kettle, Bethesda.'

Don't be too certain of your own position,
sir,' cried Bethesda. ' To tell you the truth,
sir, I do not believe that any man has been so
unpopular as you are for many years. The
tide of public feeling has set in against you
very strongly — very strongly, sir. Do you
know Mr. Baretti ? Mr. Baretti is a gentleman

whom I met at the Garrick during the period
of my management for Mr. Carroll. He is a
very ardent friend of your cousin's, and he has
issued a document on his own account, sir. I
have possessed myself of a copy, which you
may read if you choose.'

So saying, Bethesda took from his breast a
pocket-book which he opened with great deliberation.
Mark looked hard at him all the
while, andby-and-by took from his outstretched
hand a small placard announcing briefly that the
sum of two hundred pounds would be paid by
Antonio Baretti, of Number Twenty, Montague
Gardens, West, to any person who would give
such information as would lead to the arrest of
Mark Carroll, late of Overhill, in the county of
Worcester.

I suppose,' said Bethesda, in a contemplative
way, ' that there can't be less than ten
thousand of 'em up and down London at this
minute.*

Ah ! ' returned Mark, producing his cigar
case, and tearing the handbill into spills, one
of winch he lighted at the gas. ' And you
think I'm fool enough to buy you off with all
these out against me. You're quite mistaken,
Bethesda. The Customs authorities would love
to know you, and I promise you that if you
denounce me I'll denounce you. Why, hang
it all, man, I thought you had more sense than
to try to bully me, with such a record as your
own behind you.'

Mr. Bethesda looked crestfallen.

You are too many for me, Mr. Warner,' he
made answer in a little while. ' You always
were.'

Now, mark me,' said Mark, inspecting his
cigar critically to see that it was properly
alight ; ' your safety is bound up in mine. If
I am caught that is your misfortune, whether it
is your fault or not ; for I am no sooner collared
than I mention the name of my friend Mr.

Bethesda. Now in place of bullying me, don't
you see that it's in your interest to see me
away. I think if you'll look at it long enough
you'll see it in that light. Take time. When
I see two ways before me, Bethesda, one a bold
way and the other a cowardly, I take the bold
one, especially when I'm playing with a manlike
you. Nobody will be likely to look here
for me. You can put me up here until you
have made arrangements with one of your
riverside friends. How far is the river away
from here, Bethesda ? Not far, I fancy.'

'There's a bit of an old wharf at the bottom
of the garden, sir,' said Bethesda humbly.

That is very convenient indeed,' returned
Mark. ' Perhaps there is a bit of an old boat
at the bit of an old wharf .^ Eh, Bethesda?'
Mr. Bethesda returned no answer. 'If you
have no objection we'll go and see. Perhaps
you know an old friend who can take care of
me and get me down river without the formality

of taking a ticket for me. I am not particular
as to how I go. You see, Bethesda, I am a
man who has mixed a good deal in all sorts of
society, high and low, and there are a good
many people who know me. In the circumstances
which at present surround me, I am
safer out of England than in it, and I take it asa
great kindness on your part that you turned
up in such a friendly way at so difficult a
juncture.'

You are too many for me, Mr. Warner,'
said Mr. Bethesda. ' You always were.'

Observe Bethesda,' said Mark, ' the advantages
of a moral life. Let this lesson sink
deep into your mind, and persuade you to loftier
courses for the future. If you had never let me
find you out you might have earned two
hundred pounds at this moment by the turn of
a hand.'

I have had nothing to do in that sort of
way, sir,' said Bethesda, mysteriously, ' for some

years past, and I'm afraid I can't be of any
service to you.'

All right, Bethesda,' returned the visitor,
I am in your hands. If I am caught, Whether
by your instrumentation or not, I shall tell
v^hat I know. And I know a good deal. I
can prove half a dozen cases against you, and
you are as deep in the mud as I am in the mire.
Your safety hangs on mine.'

I will do what I can, sir,' returned
Bethesda. ' You are too many for me. You
always were.'



CHAPTEE XXX.

Baretti, in the sight of all the court, kissed
Tom on both cheeks, Italian fashion, twice over.
The crowd there assembled gufikwed at this
unaccustomed spectacle, and some clapped hands
at it. Public attention was for the time being
concentrated on the released prisoner. He was
local, and everybody knew him or knew of him.
That gave a livelier interest to him, and had he
been sentenced to a life's hard labour, it would
have been more piquant to watch him than to
have watched a stranger, whilst his deliverance
was naturally more romantic than that of a
stranger could have been. That which is nearest
us touches us most.

Tom had never greatly courted public
notice in this way, though he had been honestly

ambitious of it in another, and so soon as
Baretti could be brought to reason he persuaded
him to leave the court. The approaches were
crowded, and the dock official leaned over and
touched his late charge on the shoulder.

You can come this way if you like, sir,' he
said. ' You can get out quieter.'

Tom and Baretti slipped into the dock, and
passing down a flight of stairs found themselves
by-and-by in a flagged courtyard, where a little
bustle was going on. One blue coated official
was running across the yard with a carafe of
water and, a glass, and another was kneeling and
fanning with a sheet of the Times at a recumbent
figure in a corner. An old woman of the
rural middle-class was crying incoherently and
wringing her hands above the recumbent figure.
Tom knew this old woman, whose husband had
at one time held a farm under Carroll senior,
and he was crossing over towards her when an
official met him with his hat.

'What is the matter? ' asked Tom.

Lady fainted in court, sir,' said the man
civilly. ' She's related somehow to our superintendent,
and he had her brought down here
where it's quiet.'

Tom took another step forward, and to his
amazement recognised the prone figure as that
of Azubah Moore. He made no ado about
the matter, but seeing at a glance that
the attendants were all helpless, he walked
into the corner and assumed the direction of
affairs. By-and-by the patient, who was
woefully pale, began to sigh and moan a little,
and then her cheeks began to gather colour.
In a while she opened her eyes, and seeing
Tom Carroll above her, looked at him with a
calm, abstracted contentment for half a minute,
then suddenly coloured from the roots of her
hair to the throat, hid her face with her hands,
and tried to gain her feet.

Lie still for a while. Miss Moore,' said Tom.

Yes, do, there's a deary, lie still as the
gentleman says, my love,' gabbled the useless
old lady ; but the girl was conscious now (as any
girl would have been in the circumstances) of
the disorder of her dress and attitude, and her
one desire was to hide herself. A minute later
she was afoot and clinging to the old lady's
arm. Then the superintendent, her relative,
abandoned the Times, and lending his assistance
got the girl and the old lady both into his
private apartments.

Some of the officials came up and congratulated
Tom on his [escape, and he thanked
them, and with Baretti moved off into the
street, where knots of people ran before him
to cheer him, or interrupted him to shake
hands with him, until he reached Baretti's
hotel and was hidden from the sight of the
throng.

'Carroll,' said Baretti, marching up and
down the sitting-room he had engaged beforehand

for his friend's privacy, ' there is a Godin
heaven. It is not permitted in this world
for a man to be a villain without suffering for
it, and His hand is over the innocent.'

« Poor Mark ! ' said Tom.

'You mean that's' cried Baretti, half
wildly.

Yes,' said Tom. ' I mean it.'

You pity him ? *

Why not ? ' Tom asked. ' I knew him
when he was a lad, and loved him for years.
I never did him an ill turn in my life. From
the time of our going to London I was his
beet friend.'

Are these your reasons for pitying him ? '
asked Baretti scornfully.

Why not .^ ' asked Tom again.

Would you let him go scot-free if you
had him in your hands now ? ' The painter
was on the edge of despising his friend.

VOL. III. L

'Scot-free?' asked Tom. 'What do you
call scot-free? He lias sold everything
he had in the world and has bought remorse
and shame with the proceeds of the
sale. Pity him ! I never heard anything so
pitiful'

You are a fool, Carroll,' said Baretti, ' and
an angel.' He laughed oddly and took a turn
or two about the room, and pausing suddenly,
rang the bell, and on the waiter's appearance
demanded champagne. When the man had
retired he took his friend by both hands.
You will go back to your father now ? ' he
asked.

No,' said Tom, with an uncertain accent.
I shall wait until he sends for me. Poor old
governor. This will hit him hard. Everybody
will know of it — the country will ring
with it. He will almost die of shame.'

.' I shall go and see him,' said Baretti,
decisively, after a moment's pause. ' T shall

tell him how wrong he has been from first to
last, how much he has been deceived.'

Tom made no answer to this, but the
waiter returning a moment later with the wine,
they drank to each other with a serious tenderness.


Baretti,' said Tom, somewhat suddenly,
did that Italian woman volunteer to come
here, or was she forced to do it ? ' Baretti
told the story of his interview with Caterina.
Wonderful,' said Tom. ' I could understand
a sense of justice operating in such a case, but
hate like that goes beyond me.'

'I do not think anybody but a woman
could hate so,' Baretti answered.

What will happen to her ? ' asked Tom.
Crawford said she was liable to imprisonment
for life.'

There are extenuating circumstances,'
returned Baretti, coolly. The Signora's probable
fate did not seem greatly to affect him.

If I were judge, I should remember what
manner of man Mr. Mark Carroll has proved
himself to be, and should pass a formal
sentence.'

Do you think Mark hated me, Baretti ? *
asked Tom, after a pause. ' Was it all cold-blooded,
or had I made him hate me somehow
? '

My dear Carroll,' said the painter, ' you
are a man of lofty genius, and you have a
noble heart, but you do not understand
human nature. You were in your cousin's way
and he tried to put you out of it. That made
him dislike you. Then you found him out,
and thrashed him, and in common circumstances
he would have allowed that to pass
without disliking you much more for it,
because he is a villain with a great deal of
common sense. But when this woman stabbed
him, he could not give the truth of the case,
because he would have ruined himself with

your father by doing so, and he saw a sudden
way to get rid of you, who were likely to
be dangerous to him, and, perhaps, it was a
little pleasant to be able to strike you back
again. Your cousin is not a common
character, because he combines uncommon
qualities of invention and courage with the
common qualities of a rascal. By virtue of
them he becomes great in degree, but you
find the species to which he belongs in every
street in London. He is an egotist. It is
pleasant to me to think that he will suffer now
in proportion to his egotism.'

Poor devil ! ' said Tom, half pitying, half
contemptuous.

Well,' returned Baretti, nodding his head
with half a laugh, ' I will hate him enough
for two, my friend.'

As they sat and talked over their wine, and
afterwards at dinner, they made many guesses
at fact and motive, but it is hardly worth while

for US who know the story to follow their
talk. But it is worth while to record the fact
that when the news of Mark's escape reached
Baretti, the little man, without a word to his
friend, dashed out and saw the county inspector
of police for a minute or two, and, as a
result of the interview, laid in his hands a ten-pound
note and the written copy of that small
handbill which Bethesda showed to the fugitive
a little later on. Baretti was not only no
longer poor, but was well on the road to
wealth by this time. He was a fashionable
portrait painter, and was neck deep in profitable
commissions. Nowadays people with money
are content to pay such prices for the counterfeit
presentment of themselves on canvas that
a painter in fashionable request makes more
money than a prosperous merchant ; and Baretti,
if he had been so-minded, could have lived in
the palace of which he had been used to dream
in days when a palace to live in seemed a

worthy object of ambition. Now lie had
nothing to be ambitious for, and he only
worked out of a habit of industry. He lived
on a twentieth part of his income, and stored
up money without finding any particular satisfaction
in it. His bowl of ministry and his
dish of macaroni and tomato made a dinner
he would not have exchanged for all the
luxuries of the best English table, and his
quarter flask of Cliianti was wine enough for a
day's drinking. In dress he was as rich and
picturesque as the time would allow, but not
extravagant, and he had no vices, so that now
he had a command of money such as his old
friend and patron had never enjoyed in his
wealthiest days.

Tom, unconscious of Baretti's action, went
u[) to London in the morning, and the painter
stayed behind to interview the elder Carroll.
He was disappointed, but not surprised, when
Mr. Carroll declined to see him.

Mr. Carroll says, sir,' said the grave butler,
that he will be glad to receive, by letter, any
communication you may have to make to him.
He desires me, sir, to convey his compliments
to you, and to ask you if you will take any
refreshment.'

He is unwell ? ' said Baretti.

Well, he says not, sir,' returned the butler,
but he looks it. May I offer you luncheon,
sir?'

Baretti thanked him, and walking down the
avenue re-entered the fly which had carried
him from the station, and drove back again ;
Leggatt, the station-master, recognised him, of
course, and hovered about him in the hope
of getting into conversation, but Baretti's no's
and yes's froze him, and he withdrew. There
was nothing to hold Baretti in the county
town, and he returned to follow Tom to
London, and arrived at home in the evening.
He had something of a struggle within himself

on leaving Overhill. He could see front the
station the lofty trees which surrounded Lording's
house, and he would fain have called there,
but he was about this friend's business, and had
been faithful so long that it had grown into a
sort of habit with hin.

When he reached town lie gave Tom the
result of his visit to Overhill, and both of them
thought the signs encouraging. . They sat
talking until midnight, and had \ox\si ceased
to expect a visitor, when the landlady
tapped at the door, and announced that there
was somebody below who wished to speak to
Mr. Baretti. The painter ran downstairs in
his dressing-gown and slippers, and confronted
in the hall a man of long shore aspect, who
ducked and scraped at him grotesquely.

What do you want ? '

I want to put this into your hands, sir,'
said the man, producing a visiting-card, and
handing it to Mariti. The visiting-card bore

the name of Mr. Bethesda and the words,
scrawled in pencil, ' Follow bearer. I have
M. C This was almost obliterated by friction
in the waistcoat pocket of the messenger, and
had evidently been written in great haste.
Baretti stared at it doubtfully a moment and
then made up his mind.

Who gave you this .^ ' he asked.

Mr. Bethesda,' said the long shore man.

And where am I to follow you ? '

It's down Poplar way.' The man was
husky and smelt of rum, and altogether he was
not an inviting companion for a journey — down
Poplar way — to be begun at midnight.

Come upstairs,' said Baretti, and led the
way. The man followed lumberingly, and stood
ducking and making legs on the landing outside
Tom's room. ' Come in,' said the painter, and
he entered, fingering his tarpaulin hat and
moving his feet uneasily. ' Carroll, look at
this. " M. C/' is understandable enough, eh ? '

Tom glanced at the card and then looked
up excitedly.

Shall you go ? '

We had better go together,' said Baretti.
'Come here a moment.' Tom followed him
into the bedroom. ' Is that Bethesda's handwriting.'


I think so, but I am not sm^e.'

Have you arms of any sort ? '

Why ? ' asked Tom.

Have you arms of any sort ? '

A revolver I used to practise with.'

Cartridges ? *

Yes.'

Load it and put it in your pocket. The
whole thing may be a plot. You will come ? '

I will come ; certainly.'

Baretti emerged into the sitting-room, and
having bade the man to wait there, he ran
upstairs to put on boots, coat, and hat, and
returning in two or three minutes found Tom

already equipped. The painter as he entered
the room played rather ostentatiously with a
brightly-polished revolver, and looked the
messenger in the face as he did so.

'Souse me, sir,' said the man, hoarsely, ' I
hopes you know how to 'angle that, sir.' Baretti
contented himself with a nod. ' Cos,' resumed
the messenger, ' if you don't you'll excuse me,
sir, but they're a ockard sort o' thing to play
with. I should leave it behind if I was you.'

Thank you,' returned Baretti, locking it
and slipping it into his pocket. ' I prefer to
take it with me.'

Very well, sk,' returned the messenger.
I'm a single man myself.'

He shook his head rather doubtfully notwithstanding,
and followed Baretti down the
stairs with a hesitating step, whilst Tom brought
up the rear. A four-wheeled cab stood at
the door, and the man motioned them both
towards it.

'Side outside, Carroll,' said Baretti iu a
whisper, ' and keep your eyes open.'

Tom climbed up beside the driver, and
Baretti and the messenger entered.

The man knows where to go ? ' asked
Baretti.

He knows where to go all right,' responded
the messenger, and lit a short clay pipe, whose
ancient flavour compelled Baretti to smoke in
self-defence. The journey was long, and, in
spite of the surmises and expectations with
which Baretti kept himself awake, dull and
tedious. It had neither interruption nor adventure
from beginning to end, and to both
Baretti and Tom it seemed to have lasted a
fortnight or thereabouts, when at length the
grumbling vehicle pulled up at the end of a
street from the top of which could be seen the
dull gleam of the river and the lamps of one or
two craft that lay afloat. Here the messenger
alighted.

It's nigh here,' he said briefly. ' You
must let me go first.'

A policeman strolled by and turned his light
upon the party.

Officer,' said Baretti, ' I am not sure that
I shall not want you with me. Come this way.'
He slipped a few silver coins into the man's
hand as he spoke. The policeman (closed his
bull's-eye with a snap and followed. The
long shore man took no notice, but shambled
down the narrow street towards the river.
When he had passed a dozen houses he paused,
and waved a backward hand at his followers.
They stood still in obedience to this gesture,
and he went on for perhaps twenty yards, when
he turned and entered at a little archway at
the bottom of a court. In two or three
minutes he reappeared, and, in obedience to an
onward wave of the hand, they followed him
again. He led the way this time to the open
door of a tumble-down and deserted-looking

house, and entered with exaggerated creaking
caution, and the three who followed caught his
attempt at silence by sympathy, and went tiptoe
after him. The passage they entered was
pitch dark, but no sooner were they all within
than a door opened at the side, and Mr. Bethesda
appeared holding a rush light in a ginger-beer
bottle. He nodded to Baretti, who came first,
but looked disconcerted when he saw Tom and
the officer.

You may wait outside, policeman,' he said.
Pray walk in, Mr. Baretti. Pray walk in, Mr.
Carroll. Joe, you can wait outside with the
officer.'

Tom and Baretti entered the sordid room,
and Bethesda closed \\\Q: door.

Why did you send for me, Mr. Bethesda .^ '
asked the painter.

Well, sir,' said Bethesda, respectfully and
benevolently, ' a copy of this little document
fell into my hands to-day, and shortly afterwards

I met Mr. Carroll. I am not averse to the
receipt of two liimdred pounds, and I requested
Mr. Warner — I beg pardon — Mr. Carroll — to
accompany me home. Mr. Carroll bargained
for my assistance in quitting the country.
Gentlemen, I can rely upon your honour : Mr.
Warner knows something which it would be
impolitic in me to make public just at present,
and if I surrender him into your hands I must
make a bargain that I receive the two hundred
pounds before he is arrested.'

Who is Mr. Warner ? ' asked Baretti, ' and
what has he to do with it ? '

I beg pardon, sir,' said Bethesda, ' I spoke
through force of habit. Mr. Carroll was long
known to me as Mr. Warner.'

I am afraid, Mr. Bethesda,' said Earetti,
< that we shall have to trouble you to be a little
more explicit. You know Mark Carroll's
present whereabouts ? '

Yes, sir,' said Bethesda, respectfully wetting

Lis thumb and finger and benevolently
snuffing the rushlight.

'And you are prepared to surrender him to
justice ? '

On condition, sir, of the immediate payment
of the reward. Not that I doubt you,
sir. It is necessary for me to leave the country
if Mr. Carroll is arrested.'

In short,' said Baretti, ' he has a hold of
some sort upon you. Are you and he partners
in any villany ? '

A little evasion of the Customs duties, sir,'
returned Bethesda. ' Mr. Warner was aware —
I beg your pardon, Mr. Carroll was aware — of
some transactions of mine in respect to tobacco.
He traded, I may say, upon that knowledge,
and made considerable capital out of it. I have
long ceased to have any connection with that
traffic, but Mr. Carroll threatens, if he is taken,
whether through my instrumentality or not,
that he will denounce me, and therefore supposes

VOL. III. M

that lie has made me responsible for his safety.
Now I am quite sure, gentlemen, that if I put
you in the Away of apprehending Mr. Carroll,
that you will not interfere with my quitting
the country.'

Do you suppose that I have brought two
hundred pounds here with me to-night ? ' asked
Baretti.

Mr. Bethesda looked disappointed.

'If Mr. Thomas Carroll would undertake
that it shall be paid to me by roost,' he said,
with deep respect, ' I think I might accept that.
I have means of slipping down the river, gentlemen,
and the Hotel Bristol at Bologna will be
my address in a day or two.'

But, Bethesda,' said Tom with a look of
some indignation and disgust, ' you appear to
forget that I entrusted you with a considerable
amount of property for sale, and that you have
not yet accounted to me for it.'

The property, sir,' returned Bethesda,

remains unsold. That is a fact which you may-verify
tomorrow, and if my statement should
prove untrue, I could not ask you to complete
your bond.'

You will trust Mr. Carroll's assurance ? '
asked Baretti.

Implicitly, sir,' returned Bethesda.

I thought it was a motto with a rogue to
trust nobody ? '

I am not a rogue, sir,' said Bethesda.
humbly.

'About that,' said Baretti, 'there maybe
two opinions. But, Carroll, we have our manor
so it seems. Give Bethesda the promise.'

It goes against the grain with me,' said'
Tom. ' I had rather let him go.'

I will not let him go,' replied Baretti
grimly. ' Mr. Bethesda, surrender this man tome,
and you shall have your money remitted
where you will.'

I beg your pardon, sir,' returned Bethesda.

M 2

I have not the knowledge of yon that I have
of Mr. CarrolL If Mr. Carroll promises it
shall be sent, I can go away contented.'

I can have nothing to do with it,' cried
Tom. ' I will not make a bargain with one
scoundrel to catch another.'

Bethesda shrugged his shoulders slightly, as
if to protest against this summary judgment of
himself. Baretti turned away indignantly.

If you will wait until tomorrow I will give
you my cheque for the money, and you can
cash it and go where you will.'

'J^o, sir,' said Bethesda, firmly. 'If Mr.
Warner — Mr. Carroll — blows the gaff whilst
I am in England I am not safe. They have
nosed me already more than once. I can't
risk it.'

Will you take my written pledge to forward
the money ? ' demanded Baretti.

I am very sorry, sir,' said Bethesda, ' but I
couldn't get back here to enforce it. I shall be

denounced, sir, directly Mr. Carroll reaches the
police-station. I have never infringed the
moral law,' he added with an air of piety, ' but
I have broken the arbitrary provisions of my
country's rulers, and if I am mentioned I am
no longer safe.'

Very well, Mr. Bethesda,' said Baretti ; ' if
that is the case, unless you give me the information
I require, I shall find myself compelled to
abuse your admirable candour by calling in the
officer outside.'

'I beg your pardon, sir,' Bethesda responded.
' I will rely upon your honour. If
you weill come this way, gentlemen. Mr.
Carroll must already be anxious about me.'

He led the way from the house, and Baretti
gave a signal to the officer to follow.

CHAPTER XXXI.

There vas a misty light in the court as
Bethesda led the way across it, and one or two
stars were struggling to be seen through the
grey clouds which overcast the sky. A moist
wind blew up from the river, and a drear" cry
sailed over the water from a barge on the
farther side. It was after two o'clock in the
morning, and everything looked waste, and
dark, and cold. Tom's quick sympathy found
all this match well with his conception of cousin
Mark's inward state, and he had no hunger to
be revenged on one whose crimes had already
made him so forlorn.

At the exit from the court Bethesda paused
and addressed his followers in a whisper.

It's the last house on the left — by the river.
It overlooks the river, and he thinks I have
gone away to make arrangements with a man I
know for a boat. I don't think he has any
arms, but he'll be nasty if he has. Perhaps
you'd better let the officer go first, gentlemen.'


The officer stood still with the rest to listen,
and the light of a lamp fell full upon his face.
Mr. Bethesda read there no sign of an enthusiastic
reception of his plan.

What's the job, gentlemen? ' inquired the
officer dubiously.

Come in with me, Baretti,' said Tom.
Since the thing has to be done let us do it.'

Very well,' returned Baretti. One hand
toyed with the revolver in his pocket, and he
passed the other through Tom's arm. Bethesda
led the way once more, and they followed,
stepping boldly, though Bethesda began to goon
tiptoe.

In there, whispered the informer, ' the
room before you.'

The two friends walked through an open
doorway into an unevenly paved passage.
There Baretti took the lead, and after a step or
two in the darkness, struck against the door
and threw it open. The room thus revealed to
sight contained but one occupant, and he was
recognisable at a glance, though he had
assumed a rough great-coat of pilot cloth and
a huge comforter encircled his throat. Two
candles burned upon a foul deal table, and Mark
Carroll's face glared pale between them as he
half rose and faced his visitors. He had the
look of a man who had been dozing, and for a
second he was uncertain of their identity. But
he had no sooner made them out than he cast
both arms abroad and sent the two rushlights
flying. Next he seized the slight table, and
lifting it over his head, dashed it with all his
force in the direction of the doorway, and

followed it with a rush. Luckily for Baretti
and Tom the clumsy missile, hurled at haphazard
in the dark, caught the edge of the door,
whence it fell minus a leg. It was no time for
Mark to elaborate means of escape, and lie had
no time to think that his own weapon would
prove a barrier against him. As he ran forward
the table took him at the knees, and he
plunged head foremost at the pit of Tom's
stomach. It is one thing to have benevolent
scruples about prosecuting a criminal who is
a relative and was a friend, and it is another
to find yourself with your nerves suddenly
alert, and your blood suddenly afire at actual
grips with that same enemy, as he tries to
bolt before you have had a chance of letting
him off. Tom, though Mark's velocity and
weight doubled him up for a moment, pinned
the fugitive before he could regain his feet, and
held on like iron. Mark lay quiet and sullen,
seeing the other figures at the outer doorway.

and recognising the hopelessness of the
struggle.

Baretti struck a light and found the candles.
They were broken, but he relit them and
stuck them against the wall by their own grease.
Then he dragged the table out of the doorway,
and Mark came in submissively with Tom, who
kicked the door close, and released his prisoner.
Mark's unconscious hands arranged the orreat
red comforter round his neck and smoothed his
disordered hair. Then, for a second or two,
he stood panting and glaring, with his fingers
entwined in the comforter, looking like a man
with a halter round his throat. Tom looked
back at him steadily, but with a sort of
wonder.

Damn you ! ' said Mark, breathing the
words slowly and softly through clenched
teeth.

'I never did you an ill turn in my life,
Mark,' said Tom. ' I befriended you ; I gave

you money. I never spared myself in your
services. What made you hate me so .^ '

Hate you ? ' said Mark. ' I never hated
you, you buttery nincompoop.'

You waste words with him,' Baretti broke
in, contemptuously. 'You might as well talk
to a wild beast. He has neither heart nor
conscience.'

Your friend's star is in the ascendant, Mr.
Baretti,' said Mark. ' He has a rare taste in
sycophants. Stick to him, and you will
prosper.'

Mr. Mark Carroll,' said the painter, ' when
your rattlesnake is killed, and you hold his
teeth and his poison-bags in your hand you
may regard the venomous apparatus with
interest, but it cannot wound you any longer.'

You were discerning enough, Mr. Baretti,'
said Mark, ' to observe just now that words are
wasted on me. You have got me. What are
you going to do with me ? I am tired. I am

not altogether recovered from a recent illness.
I am down upon my luck, at odds with fortune,
and likely to be poor company for a pair of
triumphant young fellows like you. I can't
dismiss you, more's the pity. It would be
useless to ask j^ou to call tomorrow, I suppose.'


Tom tasted to the heart the bitterness of this
bravado.

'Baretti,' he said, turning to the painter ,
leave us for a moment.'

This is my filii, Carroll,' said Baretti. ' I
will leave him to you, but I will be played off
with no remorseful cheat.'

Go,' said Tom beseechingly, ' leave us fora
moment.' Baretti left the room and closed
the door behind him. They heard his feet
stumble on the ill-lighted passage, and Tom
waited for a little while before he addressed his
cousin. ' Mark,' he said then, ' we have been
disgraced enough already, and I want to spare

my other Avliat I can. I paid off all old scores
^vith 3'ou at Overhill. You have made new
ones since, but they have been paid off too. I
don't profess to have one scrap of friendship
or regard left for you. I don't profess to have
much pity.'

'Curse your pity,' said Mark. 'Get it
over.'

I have not moved in this matter willingly,'
Tom went on, ' but Baretti has offered a reward
of two hundred pounds for your apprehension,
and he is bent upon surrendering you to
justice. I think Baretti values me enough to
give up that pleasure for my sake. But you
have some of my father's property in your
possession and you must surrender it.'

Mark fell upon his knees and dragged a
portmanteau from a shadowy corner. This he
opened, and from it he extracted a bundle,
which he handed to his cousin. Tom turned
over its contents by the light of the two guttering

candles, each of which had by this time
a spire of soot above it on the dirty whitewash
of the waU.

The bank-notes are not here, I think,' he
said quietly. Mark produced his pocket-book
and, without a word, took out the notes and
placed them in his cousin's outstretched hand.
Tom set them with the rest, and put them in
his pocket. ' I shall pay the reward from this,'
he said, tapping his breast to indicate the notes
and I think my father will hold that excusable.
Baretti will let you go at my request, and I
shall hope to escape the disgrace of your trial
and conviction. It may not be too late, even
yet, Mark, to try straight courses.'

My dear Tom,' said Mark. ' You overestimate
yourself if you think that your powers
of oratory are stronger or more persuasive than
the circumstances I stand in. You win. I lose.
Let that be enough for you.'

Don't you think — apart from your loss in

the game you played — that you might have
acted better by an old friend ? '

You are letting me go, Tom, and you
have a right to air your goodness. I always
told you that our philosophies were wide apart.
You side with the ruck who pretend, and I
side with the few who make no pretences.'

You ! ' cried Tom. ' You make no pretences?
You, the perjured liar, hiding and
skulking here from justice ! You the candid
man ? If you saw yourself as I see you, you
would die for shame.'

The dying gladiator lead a right to cover
up his face so that no man should see his pains,'
said Mark. ' Let me wear my mask of cynical
villany to the end, Tom, since I have worn it
so long. You shall be as justly indignant
and as gloriously magnanimous as you wish,
without complaint from me. I am used to
my part ; you are used to yours. We could
scarcely play in any other character just yet.

And, for God's sake, Tom, get it over and let
me go. I am deadly tired, and I am ill, and
I am just as willing to go into a police-cell as
to be set at liberty to starve.'

Tom looked at him for a-moment, and then,
with a nod or two which bespoke his surrender
of the puzzle Mark presented to him, he
turned to the door and called Baretti. The
painter entered and looked from one to the
other. Mark dragged the broken table to the
wall, and propping it there sat down upon it,
and with great diligence pared and cleaned his
nails.

Baretti,' said Tom, ' I have promised Mark
that he shall go.'

T have promised myself that he shall not
cfo,' said Baretti. ' You shall do no such
monstrous injustice as to throw a villain like
this loose upon the world. Justice and common
sense cry out against it.'

Have I no right to save myself a little

pain and sloane P ' Tom asked. ' Have 1 not
suffered almost enough at this man's hands
already ? Has not my father suffered almost
enough already ? As for revenge — look at the
man and think of the sense of defeat and
shame that gnaws that hard heart of his. Do
you fancy I want more than that, or could
have more if I tried for it ?

Mark looked up and trie smile. ' Well
hit, Tom ! ' he said. ' Tom is quite right,
Signor Baretti. 1 am an object for commiseration.'


The painter looked at him with passionate
disdain.

Go ! ' he cried, falling back upon his own
language in his wrath. ' Live chained to yourself,
you dog, and eat your own heart till it
poisons you ! ' Tom, not understanding the
words, and misinterpreting the fiery gestures
which accompanied them, put himself between
Mark and Baretti. 'Let him go, Carroll, if you
VOL. III. N

will,' said the painter with sudden quiet. ' You
are right, perhaps. Let him go.'

'I can appreciate the delicacy of your
motives, Tom,' said Mark. ' But you appear
to forget that my escape does not depend
upon you alone. I must say, as Shylock
said, that you take my life when you do take
the means whereby I live. You have stripped
me. I have no means of getting away. You
will have me caught, and I shall besmear that
delicate family honour of yours, unless you
supply me with the wherewithal for travel.'

Without a word Tom took the bundle of
notes from his pocket, and having counted out
fifty pounds by the dim light of the two flaring
candles, now very near their end, he handed
that sum to Mark — who counted it over ai?ain,
and disposed in his pocket-book, also without
a word.

You may go,' said Tom, after a moment's
pause. Mark peered about him on the floor,
and having found a cap there, put it on and

walked from the room. The others followed
and saw him meet Betliesda in the outer street.

I am not valiant, neither,' said Mark, with
a bitter laugh, ' but every piny whisper gets
my sword. Even this poor devil can despise
me. Well, Bethesda, have you made your two
hundred ? '

Bethesda stood silent and amazed for a
while, but finding voice at last, he turned upon
Tom, and almost gasped at him —

^ You have let him go, sir ? '

I have let him go,' said Tom.

Then,' cried Bethesda desperately, ' my life
isn't worth a minute's purchase.'

My dear Bethesda,' said Mark, ' I am reformed.
My cousin's nobility has melted me,
and I am a disciple of the creed of Nam by
Namby. To you as the chief instrument in my
conversion — inasmuch as you brought the converter
and myself together — I owe t])e most
heartfelt thanks. I may be able to repay you

N 2

some day, Bethesda. I should like to heap coals
of fire upon you, Bethesda. I should also like
to heap you upon coals of fire. Good-night,
Tom. Good-night, Signor Baretti. Good-night,
Bethesda. Good-night to you, sir,' to the officer.
One of these days we may be better acquainted.
You, I believe,' he continued, turning to the
long shore man, 'will answer to the name of Joe.'

I've got a right to answer to it,' said the
long shore man, ' seen' as it's the name as I was
christened under.'

Do you know what name I answer to .^ '
asked Mark.

No, I don't ; and what's more, I don't
want to,' said the man.

Curiosity is sometimes a vice, and its
opposite a virtue,' . said Mark quietly. ' Are
you willing to earn a sovereign easily ? '

I'm allays that,' returned the man, ' provided
it's to be done honest, mind you.'

A tribute to your presence, officer,' Mark

observed, turning (courteously to the policeman.
There is a portmanteau of mine indoors, Joe.
Find that, if you please, and then oblige me by
finding a boat. I Avant to drop down river
this morning.'

TIic long shore man went into the house for
the portmanteau and brought it back with him.
Mark lit a cigar in the interim and smoked
with a pretence of tranquillity. When the
man emerged from the doorway he motioned
to him to lead, and followed him towards the
river. Tom and Baretti watched him till he
turned from sight, and each drew a breath of
relief when he was gone.

You don't want me, gentlemen ? ' said the
policeman. ' I'm on my beat, that's certain, but
I haven't touched my mates at either end of it,
and they'll think there's something up.'

Baretti slipped four or five shillings into the
man's hand, and he departed well satisfied.

Good-night, Bethesda,' said Tom, moving

away. ' Your money shall be paid you, provided
that you have kept your trust.'

I beg your pardon, sir,' said Bethesda,
but did you tell Mr. Mark Carroll — did you
give him any idea as to where I meant to go,
sir?'

None,' said Tom.

I am not safe from him anywhere,' said
Bethesda wretchedly. ' He's a perfect fiend.
There's no bottom to his cunning, and he
doesn't know what pity means.'

You should have thought of these things
before you earned your money,' said Baretti,
as he turned to go. Bethesda seemed to cong
to them.

I made arrangements, gentlemen,' said he,
to drop down river this morning ; but he
has gone before me, and I dare not do it.
He's got pluck enough besides that, gentlemen,
to walk into the first police-station and give
information against me.'

'You have done your work and earned
your money at your own risk, Betliesda,' said
Baretti.

But we never bargained that he was to
be let off, gentlemen,' cried Bethesda. ' Heat
large, and I have made an enemy for life.'

Naturally,' said Baretti. ' Good-night.' He
drew Tom away, and the miserable Bethesda
stood for a while looking after them. In two
or three minutes he recovered something of his
self-possession and began to make his way
through the silent streets towards his own residence.
He had a walk of some two miles
before him, and he was nervous about all the
corners and all the shadowy places. His home
reached at last, he admitted himself by a latchkey,
and, moving like a ghost, took up a portmanteau
and a bottle from the room in which
he had conversed with Mark a few hours earlier.
Bearing these with him, he stole out at the
back door and crept along a weedy garden to

the riverside. There lay a boat with a heap of
tarpaulin at the bottom of it. As Bethesda made
his cautious way down the steps the tarpaulin
moved, and a man appeared from beneath it,

That you, master ? You're precious late.
It's cold waiting', I can tell you.'

Take a little comfort, George,' said
Bethesda, proffering the man the bottle. The
fellow took it and drank greedily.

That's the right sort,' he said, as he
restored the cork. ' That warms a man.'

Quietly down stream, George,' said
Bethesda, bestowing the portmanteau at the
stern. He took the tiller-ropes, the man cast
loose the painter and took the sculls. The
boat glided into the centre of the river, and
Bethesda shook his hand lightly towards the
house from which he Alas retreating. ' The
bill of sale,' said Bethesda inwardly, ' will take
effect tomorrow. The two hundred is providential,
but '

His thoughts were comfortless, and he kept
a keen look-out ahead. All the shadowy places
were dangerous to him in his fancy, and he
steered from side to side of the stream, and took
fright a thousand times. He reflected that he
was doing the safest thing after all. The
Thames is a biggish river, and it is possible for
two people to be on it at the same time without
each being aware of the other. His enemy had
started an hour ago, had begun two miles
lower down, and had not the remotest reason
to believe that he would follow. He was convinced
that he was safe enough, and in spite of
his conviction he was very much afraid.

She's lying off' Greenwich, isn't she,
George ? ' he asked after a time.

What, the " Goshawk " ? ' said the man.
Oh ! she's there right enough.'

She isn't doing anything ' Mr.

Bethesda paused with a lingering accent of
inquiry.

Fishy ? ' said the man with a laugh.
She's done with that sort of game, I should
fancy. The blue un's is too fly, sir.'

Mr. Bethesda sighed an assent to this poetic
statement of a grief.

Yes,' he said, ' the Customs officers are
exceedingly alert, exceedingly alert.'

Alert.! cuss 'em,' said the man with the
sculls, and finding himself unequal to the
expression of his feelings he spat vehemently.

The moon had fallen, and except for the
twinkling lights that shone here and there the
eye found nothing to rest upon outside the sweep
of the sculls. Bethesda peered eagerly forward
and saw a million things which had no reality.
Hulking ships moved up to override the boat
and melted when they touched her, and shadowy
craft of smaller size with a shadow's silence
crossed her course, Bethesda holding his breath
until the expected cohesion came, and his own
boat floated through the phantom. But in a

while the black air began to take a tone of grey,
and a real hulk came out coldly here and there.
Tien the mantle of the night was lifted by
another fold, and he could see the shore on
either side the stream.

'It's a longish pull to Greenwich, governor,'
said the oarsman.

You don't earn thirty shillings every day,'
returned Bethesda, drily.

I ain't grumbling,' the man answered.
You allays paid a fairish price, governor. It
ain't that. The walls of my stomach is regular
falling in, I do assure you. There's a public -
house a half-mile down, as'll be open by
the time we get to it. A bit o' cold seated bethe
making of me. There's no hurry for the
'' Goshawk," governor.'

Very well,' said Bethesda, though he
dreaded the land. It was absurd, of course, to
fancy that Mark Carroll would be so great a
fool as to walk into danger, as he would have

to do if lie betrayed this betrayer now. But to
the criminal mind, when it is constituted on
the pattern of Mr. Bethesda's, it does not
greatly matter that any dread may be ridiculously
unfounded. It sees its ghosts and knows
that they are ghosts and nothing more, but it
expects a solid hand to stretch out from each
of them, and mental certainty and nervous
fear are constantly at war. Bethesda grew
more and more nervous as time went on, and
in the gathering light he watched the shore
and the river with increased misgiving. In
the course of some three-quarters of an hour,
for the tide 'was running strongly up stream
and their progress was slow, they CLime to the
house of which the man had spoken, and he,
pulling inshore, made fast the boat at the
bottom of a set of slimy steps, and landed.
Bethesda, with a big cloak pulled high about
his neck, followed up the slimy steps and into
a littered yard. A sensation he had never in

\\\6 waking hours experienced before was upon
him, and lie seemed surrounded by some
such nameless and unformed terror as that
which attacks men in nightmare. It was
raining, the morning wind was keen, and he
pulled the cloak higher about his face, as
with bent head he crossed the yard towards
the open door. The man pushed in before
him past a lounging figure there, and Bethesda
essayed to follow, but the figure planting
itself straight across the doorway, he looked
up with a start and saw Mark Carroll. He
recoiled in dismay, and Mark followed with one
forward step.

Well Bethesda ? ' said Mark coolly. ' We
seem fated to encounter each other.'

Bethesda with a white face looked at him
for a second or two, and then glanced right and
left, as if looking for a chance to run away.

We can be dangerous to each other, Mr.
Warner,' he said, when he had a little recovered

himself, ' but is it worth our while, sir ? Don't
you think we had better avoid each other, sir ? '

Don't you think,' asked Mark, in answer,
that you had better have put that question to
yourself last night ? '

T foresaw what would happen, sir,' returned
Bethesda. ' I knew your cousin was not the
man to proceed to extremities.'

'bethesda,' said Mark, ' this is not the time
or the place for payment, but I have a score
against you, and I shall pay it. Trust me.'

I beg your pardon, sir,' cried Bethesda,
with a ghost of his habitual smile, 'but don't
you think that just at present it might be worth
your while to overlook last night, sir. It maybe
in my power to serve you now, Mr. Warner.
It can't be comfortable for you to be in England,
and the regular channels are pretty closely
watched, sir, I suppose.'

You ask me to trust you again,' said Mark,
to be betrayed again ? '

They had walked away from the house door,
by a mutual instinct of fear lest they should be
overheard, and now they were near the edge of
the quay.

'Betrayed, sir,' said Bethesda. 'What for?
What could I get by betraying you ? I should
only get myself into danger.'

There was something in it, Mark thought.
Bethesda had run his risk once for the sake of
pay. He was not likely to run it again for
nothing.

I am leaving the country myself, Mr.
Warner,' Bethesda continued in a whisper, and
with quick fearful glances right and left. 'I
can find you a safe passage over to Bologna,
and there you have the world before you.
What's the use of our trying to do each other
harm, sir, when if you strike a blow at me it
must be fatal to yourself, and if I strike a blow
at you I run my own neck into a noose for
nothing ? '

Mark laid both hands on the cloak Bethesda
wore and held him firmly. It was the
gesture he had used with his cousin Tom at the
beginning of their quarrel at Overhill, and it
was a thing that came natural to him and was
significant of character.

What are you going to do ? ' cried
Bethesda, with a terror-stricken face. They
Avere standing within a yard of the edo-e of the
quay, and there was a look in Mark's eyes
which filled him with fear and loosened his
knees beneath him. Mark saw his dread and
smiled grimly.

You poor coward,' he said. ' Listen tome.'


Yes, sir,' said Bethesda. Mark could feel
him trembling.

Do you think,' he asked, ' that it is worth
my while to throw you over there ? Can't you
swim, you quaking coward ?'

No,' said Bethesda ; ' not a stroke.'

For the first and last time in his Hfe a real
rage unleashed itself in Mark Carroll's heart,
and for the first and last time he acted on an
impulse. There had not been a thought of
murder in his mind. He was one of the likeliest
men in the world to think of it as a
practicable method of revenge. But Bethesda's
cowardice put it there ; the chance was in his
hands — a sudden swirl and rush of hate and
rage filled every cranny of his mind.

Not a stroke,' said Bethesda.

Then drown ! ' said Mark between his
teeth, and shot Bethesda backward into the
stream. But the heavier man clutched at
him like lightning, and they fell together,
Bethesda underneath. The water at the quay-side
was deep, but they went down until they
touched the bottom, and Bethesda held on
madly. Mark set his knees against the other's
breast and tore himself away, but almost before
he reached the surface he felt a pair of arms

VOL. III. o

closing round his neck. He turned to free
himself, and in the same instant struck out
strongly with both feet, so that he rose high in
the water, and the groping hands missed his
neck, but kitchen his left arm,, and there was
Bethesda's face below him at the surface gasping
and glaring. Mark struck it again and again
and Bethesda let out a series of gurgling yells
and went down once more, dragging his enemy
with him. This time Mark got his feet against
Bethesda's body, and struck out with all his
might, but the drowning wretch held on. They
came up a second time, and Mark could see the
slow light heave at him as he struggled to the
surface. When he reached it, a hand clutched
his hair and held on tightly. Another hand
clutched Bethesda, and the two were hauled
into a boat. Mark looked round, and saw that
the pier from which he and Bethesda had fallen
was by this time forty yards away. Bethesda

was Still holding to his sleeve, and was howling
and spluttering still.

He tried to drown me. There's a warrant
out against him for perjury.'

Mark raised his hand and struck Bethesda
in the face.

Hill ! Stop that ! ' cried an authoritative
voice. Mark looked round upon the man who
seized him and then upon the boat's crew and
the boat.

A detachment of the Thames police, I
believe,' he said quietly. ' Very well. This
gentleman is the largest smuggler in London
Mr. Bethesda. You can take care of both
of us.'



CHAPTEE XXXII.

No news from the governor, Baretti ? ' said
Tom, on a day three months later. He was
dressed for a journey, and his room was in such
disorder as with some men results from the
hasty packing of a portmanteau.

No news,' returned Baretti, ' I had hoped
for an answer which would have made this
unnecessary, or, indeed, impossible.'

Why ? ' said Tom. ' I give you my word,
Baretti, that if it had not been for the things
my father has had to suffer I should have been
glad to see affairs turn out so. Here's an
honourable living in my fingers, and a chance
to see a little bit of the world in various aspects.
You don't appreciate the importance

of the position, Baretti. I am the great
Hoffmannn's solo violinist, and the second captain
of his host. He will play in the course of the
tour a dozen compositions of mine, and my
fame will be carried into the corners of the
earth. But my cab is at the door and the
train awaited me. Good-bye, old fellow.
God bless you.'

Write often,' said Baretti. ' Good-bye.'
Tom took up his violin case from the table
and ran downstairs. Baretti waved him an
adieu from the open window as he came upon
the street, and Tom entering his cab was driven
away. Borne to the railway station, he took a
third-class ticket — resolute to begin his new
career economically — and in due time was
landed at Birmingham, where he drove to an
hotel, dined, and dressed in time for the first
concert of the great Herr Hoffmannn's provincial
tour. He walked to the Town Hall and found
his own name blazoned on the placards outside

in red letters almost as big as Hoffmannn's own.
There was a great crowd outside the building,
and cabs and carriages were rolling up at a
great pace. He never thought for a moment
that Hoffmannn had engaged him for any other
reason than a warm approval of his musical
powers might furnish. But the great Herr,
though a severe musician, was a keen man of
business into the bargain, and a born showman.
He knew, if Tom did not, the value of a man
whose name for the past three or four months
had been in everybody's mouth as the hero of
one of the most exciting real-life dramas the
public could remember.

Tom made his way to the side door to which
he had been directed by his chief's last letter,
and, being admitted, found himself in the midst
of a little crowd of his fellow-artists. He had
rehearsed with them in London, and knew
most of them by sight, but he had as yet not
even a casual acquaintance with any of his

confreres. So with a quod here and there ia
answer to the recognising salutes of one or two
of them, he walked to one end of the room
and read absently the big poster announcing
the concert. ' Soprani : Madame Fiorituri and
Miss Moore.' Who was Miss Moore? Could
it be possible that his old playfellow and
protege had already advanced far enough to be
engaged by Hoffmannn ?

He was hoping it might prove so, for her
sake, when the chief's voice aroused him, and
the instnimentahsts began to move towards the
orchestra. Hoffmannn, beholding him, shook
hands in a very friendly fashion, and was
evidently disposed to make much of him. Ina
little while the business of the night began,
and Tom was too much absorbed in his work
to think more of the name he had seen upon
the placard until the owner of it appeared
before him on the platform. Azubah was
prepared for this meeting, and saluted him

gravely. The song she sang had an orchestral
accompaniment, and that fact kept Tom in his
place, otherwise he might have met her below,
and have spoken to her. When she sang she
surprised and pleased him, and he was delighted
that the audience recalled her. He had no
more to do until the beginning of the second
part of the concert ; and, on her disappearance
from the platform, he followed.

I wondered if it would turn out to be you
whose name I saw advertised for the concert,'
he said, when he had overtaken her. ' You
have improved immensely. You will make a
name. Miss Moore, and nobody will be better
pleased than I shall.'

He thought as he looked at her that she
had improved in more respects than one. To
talk of beauty unadorned is all very well in its
way, no doubt, but there are some people who
pay for dressing. Tom had never seen the girl
in anything but the simplest costume until

now, and she showed to surprising advantage.
She had made her dress with her own hands,
but she had caught the best points of the prevailing
style, and the mode and the material
alike suited her. Whilst Tom spoke to her she
drew an opera cloak over her white shoulders,
and pulled the hood, which was lined with
snow-white down, over her head.

Do you really think my singing improved,
Mr. Carroll ? ' she asked.

'Wonderfully,' said Tom, 'wonderfully.'
She blushed with pleasure.

You gave me an admirable master,' she
said, shyly. 'He made me work very hard,
but I did not like him any the less for that.'

Nobody can make anything of art,' said
Tom, ' who is afraid of work.' He was looking
at her with a new interest all the time.
She was not what he would have called a lady .
His father's manner of separating ranks had
naturally descended to him. But he admitted

that she made so excellent an imitation that
nobody could have told the difference. Her
father was a half-bankrupt farmer, and her
mother kept a dairy in South London, but, sofar
as sight or hearing went, just now, she
might have been born in a mansion, and bred
all her days in the best society. How did you
come to meet Hoffmannn ? ' he asked. ' Are you
with us for the whole of the English tour ? '

Yes,' she said, answering the last question
first. ' I went to Mr. Hoffmannn and asked him
to hear me sing.'

That was courageous,* said Tom, with a
laugh.

Was it ? ' she asked simply. ' I wanted todo
something for my father.'

What did Hoffmannn say ? ' asked Tom, ' at
first ? I can tell what he said at last.'

I told him why I had called, and he threw
the piano open, and made a motion with his
hand. I sat down at once and sang. When I

had done he said " Something else. 'J I sang
something else, and then he said " Leave your
address. Good morning." He wrote two days
lAter offering me an engagement.'

Weren't you afraid of him ? ' asked Tom.

Oh,' she answered, * not at all. I had heard
that he was odd and eccentric before I called,
and I knew partly what to expect. I shoidd
have liked it better if he had given me a little
time to prepare myself, but I am not very nervous
about singing now.'

Now Tom had nothing very special to say
to Miss Moore so far as he remembered just
then, but she had one or two things which she
wanted very especially to say to him, and as
yet could not. She had no right to speak to
him of his private news, and yet it seemed so
cold and thankless a thing (after all she owed
him and all he had done for her) to meet him
here in his fallen fortunes and show him no
sympathy.

I suppose Dot,' Tom said, absently, to her
last statement. He had only half heard it, and
was not paying any great attention to her speech,
and now he took to trifling with his watch-chain
and looked straight over her head meantime, as
if he saw something sorrowful at a great distance.
She noted this keenly, and her heart stirred
with pity over him. Something that was not
pity moved within her also, but she had neither
the desire nor the power to define that tender
emotion. Girls of twenty or thereabouts are not
greatly given to self-analysis by nature. It is
likely enough that Tom's troubles had given a
tone of sorrowfulness to his expression of face
when he had nothing to animate him and w^s
silent. She was thinking of his altered fortunes,
and it seemed natural to fancy or to feel that he
was thinking of them also.

I am sorry to see you here, Mr. Carroll.'
Her voice sounded still in her own ears, and
he looked at her with an almost startled air, or

she might have doubted that she had spoken,
the words had at last so unconsciously framed
themselves. He looked at her and read her
meaning at once.

Thank you,' he said, answering her meaning
and not her words. ' I shall like the life
very much, I have no doubt. My father is very
unhappy, and I am sorry about that. There is
nothing else to grieve me greatly.'

It struck him directly he had spoken that
this was an odd thing to say, and a second or
two later it came into his mind that it was much
more singular to have meant it. How little he
thought about Mary now I She had used to be
constantly in his thoughts, and now he felt with
a self accusation of disloyalty that her image
had been banished from his mind. Azubah
was hailed a moment later by that same country-looking
woman in whose care Tom had last seen
her. The old lady bobbed at Tom when she
recognised him, and was, plainly embarrassed.

He nodded back at her with a cordial recognition.


I shall see you again, Mr. Carroll,' said
Azubah, timidly.

Yes,' he said, somewhat more gravely than
he intended, ' we shall meet often.'

She went away half ready to cry, thinking
that she had exceeded her right and had offended
him. He sat down in a corner of the room
and tried, by thinking, to recall that lost image
of whose existence he had just been reminded
the image he had sworn a thousand times
never to forget. It had, of course, seemed
impossible to forget her. It was now just as
impossible to recall her, or to bring back the
old warmth and tenderness of heart. He wondered
if she had ceased to think of him in the
course of these eventful months. He knew
that she must have heard of him often enough,
and he was ready to writhe with shame at the
memory of his own publicity. How had she

thought of him ? Had she believed in him all
through, or had she waited for the proof of this
innocence to appear ? lu either case he was
soiled enough to be distasteful to himself. He
aggravated himself with questions, and aggravated
himself the more, because at heart he had
ceased greatly to care what the answers might
be. But now he came to think about it, it was
so much of a surprise to find he had ever ceased
to think about it that it was not easy to leave
the theme. By-and-by, finding himself alone,
he began to pace to and fro thinking. Azubah
caught sight of him once or twice as he passed
the half-open doorway of the room in which
she sat, and to her mind it was as clear as day
that her ill-advised speech had set him thinking
of the advantages which had fallen away from
him, and the undeserved shames which had
gathered round him in their place. The kindest
and the best of men, so regal in his generosity,
so unselfish, and to have suffered such

indignities ! So handsome — that went for
something, though she never thought so — so
young, so gifted, so unfortunate. It felt Hke
heartbreak to think of these things.

If she could have read Tom's thoughts, she
might have sympathised less keenly with him,
but then that is often so. To know that he
was trying to flog a dead love for another
woman into life again would scarcely have
pleased her.

At the interval the members of the orchestra
came swarming downstairs, and for a few minutes
the room was extremely noisy. The thread
of Tom's thought was broken, and he forgot to
piece it for the time being, and the great Hoff-mann,
being in a good humour with success,
clapped him on the shoulder and cracked a joke,
at which he laughed readily enough. Azubah
saw this also, but nothing Tom did could fail to
win her admiration. How brave it was of him
to throw off his troubles so, and laugh them in

the face. The poor girl liacl been too busy all
her life to read romances, or she might have
found out before this time what was the matter
with herself. Nowadays no virgin need be
ignorant of the meaning of the first movements
of the virgin heart. Novelists and novelettists,
poets and poetasters, are thick about her, and
are ready to teach her all she shoidd know and
something that she should not. But Azubah
lived outside their influence, and so she fell in
love in Nature's own fashion, which is perhaps
the best, and had no self-conscious flutters and
promptings, nor any bookish pruderies. She
fell in love, or glided into love, as a good girl
ought to do, unwittingly and unthinkingly.
There is always a delicacy — or there should
always be a delicacy — in a man's mind about
invading the privacy of maiden thought and
feeling. The hands that draw apart the curtain
are profane.

When Azubah had sung her last song and

VOL. III. P

was prepared to leave the hall, she and Tom
encountered once more, and said good-night.

By-the-by,' said he, ' we are due at Manchester
tomorrow. By what train do you
travel ? We might go on together. There
are a hundred things I want to speak about.'

She was the little farm girl still and he still
the lordly Seigneur.

She told him what he wished to know, and
he arranged to meet her at the railway station.
They travelled together and talked of old times
and. old people and of the prospect of the dairy
and her father's health. The old woman who
played the part of Azubah's chaperon was not
accustomed to travel, and could not sleep in
strange beds. Her night having been broken,
she fell fast asleep now and left them to themselves,
but there was nothing in their speech to
which the world might not have listened.
There was nothing in Tom Carroll's thoughts
that the whole world might not have known.

The girl was certainly wonderfully improved,
and he acknowledged with some surprise that
she might have taken her place in any society
and have drawn forth none but approving
comments.

One thing which would have come sooner
but that his life had been lived in such a whirl
for the past three months began to impress
itself upon his mind, and this was the occasion
on which he had seen Azubah in the prison
court-yard at Worcester. It pained him to
think that curiosity had taken her to the Assize
Court to witness the trial, and since he was not
the sort of young man who fancies every second
girl in love with him, no notion of a tender
interest on her part entered his head. He
could not question her about it, but he found
her travelling companion alone that evening and
spoke to her, and the old woman with no
prompting led up to the theme herself. She
was what is called in the country a notable

p2

woman, and she spoke her own mind to everybody,
gentle and simple, with amazing freedom
.

It was the talk of the country, Mr.
Thomas,' she said, ' as you and your poor dear
father 'ud be amain' things up, and I'm sorry
to see as it isn't so. I look on it as a bit of
a come down for Moore's daughter to be play-action'
about the country i' this wise, and for
gentlefolks born and bred it do not look proper,
that I am sure.'

Well, you know, ' Mrs. Askin,' said Tom,
good-humouredly, ' it's a very agreeable method
of earning a living.'

You hadn't ought to earn a living', sir,' said
the elderly dame, with warmth. ' Now that
cousin of yours is found out, sir, as did you all
that mischief, you ought to be at home again
enjoying of your own. Excuse me making' so
bold, sir, but why don't you go home and speak
to the old Squire ? '

A dignified man might have resented this
inquiry, but Tom lead never set up to be
dignified, and he answered simply that he had
rather not talk of that matter just then. The
notable woman's tongue once being loosened,
away she went.

Oh, sir,' said she, ' it's well known —
begin' your pardon for saying of it — as you and
your father's a pair, and pride's in the family.
Not as ever you Alas proud to folks like we, for
many a time me and Askin said to one another
as there was nobody affable than Mister
Thomas in our part of the country. But you
gentlefolks is sort of hard and stand-off one
with another, sir, and if a old woman might
speak her mind as was a tenant of your father's
for thirty 'ear, it's your fault, sir, as much as
his. There's me and our Zubah's talked it
over pretty often, and we're o' one mind about
that, though it ain't often as we are.'

You have your little disagreements then .^ '

said Tom, laughing, though] a little constrainedly.


We're like other folks,' said the old lady,
and she's headstrong like most young things.
Self-will ain't the word for her. When her was
staying down with me three months ago, afore
I ever thought of coming down to this and
going' round the country with a lot of foreigners
and iiddlescrapers — begging your pardon, sir —
the way she would go into Worcester for to
hear you tried was almost past bearing' with.
And she was that ill afore she started. I says
to her, I says, " Zubah, you ain't fit to stir out
of the house," I says ; and says she, " Aunt, I shall
go, and it's no use of you talking." " Very well,'
I says, " lookin' as you look now," I says, " I
shouldn't be surprised if you was to ketch your
death." She was that ill she could hardly walk,
and a trembling' and fainting like, almost all the
way to the railway station, and the same all the
way to the court. And she no sooner gets to the

inside of the bitildin', after as bad a crush as ever
I see in my life, then she faints stone dead away.'

'It was unadvised,' said Tom, to whom all this
was painful. ' Excuse me, Mrs. Askin, I must
see to business.'

He had nothing to do, but he wanted to
escape from her, so he bustled about and began
to overturn a great pile of music, and to make
notes which meant nothing. The old woman
left him to his own thoughts. They were a
little complex, but they all' drifted about
Azubah. There was every reason why the
girl should take a friendly interest in his fate.
She had known him all her life, and he had
been of use to her, and she, no doubt, had
been grateful to him. When a young man
begins to think much about a young woman,
you need scarcely look for any logical sequence
in his thoughts. How very much improved she
was. How very pretty she had grown. There
was something in her way of looking at one.

Curious that he should think about her so much.
The artistic nature, and the girl had an artistic
nature, is always sensitive. Swooned on entering
the court, did she, poor thing ? Why, the
trial lasted three hours, and he had found her
still insensible when he left the dock on his
acquittal. Then he remembered how she
looked at him when she recovered.

Somehow the old woman's talk did not seem
likely to be so painful to him as it had been
a while ago. By this time Azubah was talking
to Madame Fiorituri, for she had, in one way or
another, picked up Italian enough to hold a
conversation, and Mrs. Askin was sitting at some
distance from her. Tom sauntered towards the
old lady with a sheet of music in his hand.

I have found what I was looking for,' he
said. The most honest of men cannot always
be expected to speak literal truths. ' I am sorry
to have interrupted you, Mrs. Askin. You
were just telling me that Miss Moore fainted.

You could not have got into court at the beguiling
of the trial'

Lord bless you, no, sir,' said the notable
woman. ' We might lia' stuck in the crowd
till now if Askin's nephew, which is a Superintendent
in the force, hadn't come upto
clear the folks away. He sees me of a
sudden, when we'd been awaiting there two
hours at least, regular blocked up and not able
to move one way or another all the time, and
that hot it felt like a oven, and " For the Lord's
sake, Joseph," I says, "get us out of this'*
No," says she, " let us get inside. I must get
inside," she says. So says he, " This way," and
he takes us by a byway, and just as we gets into
the court we saw you, sir, and the juryman
says " Not guilty," and the crowd begins to
cheer. There was a gentleman there, sir, which
perhaps you may remember. His name was
Chandler, and he kep' a shop in the town in the
linen drapery line, and I asked him, "Who's not

guilty for the Lord's sake ? " I says, *' Is it Mr.
Thomas ? " " It is," he says, and '' look at your
niece." And there was Azubah swooned dead
away.'

Mr. Carroll,' said a voice from the foot of
the orchestra stairs. Tom turned. ' Waiting
for you, sir

Tom. caught up his violin and made for the
orchestra. The noise of applause went through
him like an inspiring wind as he stepped upon
the platform, and left him no thought but that
of his art and the business of the moment.
Hoffmannn waved his hand, his bow gripped the
strings, and he forgot everything but music.

An hour later he was in his own room at
his hotel, smoking a last pipe before turning
into bed. What a tender-hearted, sensitive Kettle
thing she was, he thought How lady-like and
lovely she had grown. Altogether, how she
had improved.

Chapter XXXIII.

There is a sort of self-conscious young man
who in these circumstances would have been
able to guess the truth. Perhaps the self-conscious
young man is far (in the long run)
from having an advantage over the young man
who is not self-conscious. He can read unmistakable
signs rightly, but he can also read unmistakable
signs wrongly, and that is sometimes
uncomfortable for him. Tom read nothing.

The great Hoffmannn's company travelled
through the great provincial cities, and won
golden opinions from all sorts of people.
Monsieur Strapinski played Tom's sonata for the
pianoforte, ' the carefully-selected and magnifies
orchestra' performed his symphony,

Madame Fiorituri sang his aria, and
Miss Moore his last ballad, and he himself
played his last nocturne. Altogether there
was a good deal of Tom Carroll in the great
Hoffmannn's programme, and the public applauded
him. The critics called him ' this genuinely
English musician ; ' the publishers began to
find his music in demand, and there was a talk
about reviving ' Godiva ' at one of the London
theatres. He bore success modestly, made an
income more than equal to his wants, and was
fairly happy. People received him (when he
had leisure to be received at all) with the
consideration due to a member of a good old
county family, and he was allowed to feel that
he was any man's equal still.

The enterprising Hoffmannn was not only a
musician with a name to conjure money from
the public pocket, but an admirable man of
business and first-rate showman. He made
arrangements, therefore — knowing' when generosity

paid him — to give his troupe a holiday
here and there, and he even took the trouble
before he finally fixed his engagements to
consult his colonists and the members of his
orchestra as to the places and times at which
they would like the breaks in the week's work to
come in. Most of them did not care at all,
and when any, man did care his voice for the
most part settled the matter. Apart from these
holidays Hoffmannn worked his army fiercely,
and himself worked hardest of all.

The spare days had promised to hang
somewhat heavily on Tom's hands, but the
burden of doing nothing was lightened now
that he had a frivolous old woman and a
serious young one to share it with him. The
elder had a convenient knack of going to sleep
in the daytime, a thing she attributed to her
sleepless nights, forgetful of the fact that an
effect does not create a cause. Tom instructed
Azubah in counterpoint whilst the old lady

was awake, and when she slept he wert on
with his lessons. Wonderful how interesting
to an enthusiastic musician — the study of
counterpoint may be, dien the pupil is a girl
whose loveliness is a continual surprise, and
whose ways are at once frank and shy. There
are as many ways of falling in love as there are
men and women in the world. To be always
closely associated with a pretty girl who' thinks
you the handsomest, the wisest, and the best
young man in the world, and the most unjustly
used, who with perfect delicacy and subtlety
lets you understand as much without ever
saying a word about it, and obviously does not
intend that you should guess her opinions and
sentiments — do you think, that in this sort of
circumstances you would be pleased with the
young woman ? If the young woman were
really — when you came to look at her — surprisingly
pretty, and a little sad for some
reason or no reason, and a little in want of

help and protection, and sympathy, and society,
and all that — do you think you might begin to
feel impelled towards her in an odd sort of
way?

The way of a man with a maid.

Tom was perfectly certain that he was'
bound body and soul to his first and only love,
though he was also perfectly certain that he
could never go and claim her. These contra-^
victory sentiments could not long exist
together, and one had to destroy the other.
Conviction's fire and doubt's cold water made
a rare steam between them for a while, and
then, in due course of time, conviction's fire
went out. He had no right to think himself
bound to Mary Lording unless she still thought
herself bound to him. Since Lording had last
called upon him they had held no intercourse,
and that was long ago. ' I've stuck to you all
the time, and I'd stick to you now if you'd let
me. But since you won't I'm going. When

3^011 come to your senses I shall be glad to hear
from you.' He remembered Lording's parting
words, and he knew that without active cause
of quarrel between them they had parted. It
had been in Mary's power to write to him and
make things smooth again, but she had never
done it. He had never blamed her for her
silence even when his affection for her was
keenest and his heart was sorest, and now,
though he did not like to confess it to himself,
he was not at all anxious that she should write
in the strain he had once longed to hear. He
lead been really, honestly, loyally in love. He
himself knew perfectly well that if his love had
been crowned by possession he would have -
gone on loving loyally and tenderly until death
divided him from his wife. But then so many
things had come between, and events so moving
and absorbing had crowded on one another so
swiftly, that she had been pressed from his
mind.

If men were ruled by inexorable logic the
world would be so altered that nobody now
alive Avould know it. Inconsistency is the
most consistent of human characteristics and
the most abiding. The heart of man wanders,
and even women, who love more personally,
can love twice in a lifetime — happily for us
and for themselves. A natural-minded young
man can find it in his heart to love almost any
lovable young woman who happens to be
thrown much in his way and to make an appeal
to him, unless his heart is filled already. Now,
in this case, Azubah came at the most
dangerous time, for his heart was just emptied
and was feeling empty.

If he had guessed the truth he might have
avoided her, for fallen as his fortunes were, he
would fever of purpose aforethought have
deliberately married a milkman's daughter.
In all his instincts, hereditary and acquired, he
was one of the dominant class, and he was a

VOL. III. Q

gentleman to the end of his days, though he
were three times a fiddler, and even had he
fiddled for his bread in the streets. But he
only saw a pair of very beautiful and speaking
brown eyes and a gentle, pretty face and a
charming figure ; and knew only that there
was a charming soul behind all these outward
signs. He knew that the girl was sympathetic
clever, and possessed by a passionate love of
the art which had for years enthralled himself.
He knew that he was absolutely at ease with
her, and if he had asked himself he would have
known that nobody thought so well of him as
she did. It was delightful to give lessons to so
apt and ambitious a pupil, and it was pleasant
to stand as well in his own eyes as she somehow
made him.

The girl, on her part, began to be wiser
than the man. She knew by this time the
meaning of her own symptoms, and was brought
to confess to herself that she was in love with

her old patron and helper. When a gh'l makes
that sort of confession to herself she is as much
ashamed, or nearly, as though the whole of her
world had found her out in some act of incredible
wickedness. She blushed and hid her
face in her hands in the solitude of h'-r own
chamber when she first thought of it, arj'^ many
a time afterwards. She would sit and dream
with her eyes wide open, and Tom Cai^r. .11 and
she would walk together in vague pla'-e^ until
he would bow that magnificent head (ii.d turn
the light of those wonderful eyes upon li-r, and
his arm would 2^0 round her waist ind hera



head fall upon his shoulder, and she should
awake in a paroxysm of sweet shame fV-.in the
entrancing fancy.

They were in a certain seaside town when
one of their periodical resting times came
about, and a sort of water picnic was planned.
Hoffmannn made the affair his own, and ordered
a luncheon at the chief hotel of another << aside

(12

town, a place of fashionable resort some twenty
miles away. The weather was bright and
balmy, and Mrs. Askin went to sleep in the
course of the passage, though she had made
all convenient arrangements for being ill.
Tom and Azubah were together during the
brief steamboat journey, and the girl was ina
state of fluttering expectancy, as though
something strange and unheard-of were certain
to happen. They landed, and wandered
about the place together as if that were
quite natural and in the proper order of
things. Other people, who knew more about
Tom Carroll than he had yet found out about
himself, tacitly agreed to let him alone. The
notable woman's free tongue had let everybody
know his story as far as she herself knew it,
and if anybody had told her, in answer, that
the son of her late husband's landlord and the
rightful heir to the Trench House estates was
falling in love with her niece, she would have

laughed. She recognised the distance between
them. That Azubah should fall in love with
him would have been too absurd to her mind.
If you had asked her, plump and plain,
whether she thought Tom Carroll or the
Prince of Wales the loftier, she would, of
course, have pitched upon the Prince, but,
unconsciously and habitually, she thought the
Carroll, of Trench House, the greatest people
in the world. Azubah had certainly grown
wonderfully fine ladyfied in the last year or
two, insomuch that the old woman was a little
afraid of her in her inmost heart ; but the girl
knew her place for all that, and had been bred
almost in the shadow of the red-brick mansion
at Overhill. In Mrs. Askin's experience love
was not the leveller he is in romantic ballads.
Gentlefolks married gentlefolks. Bankrupt
farmers' daughters might think themselves
well off to catch a decent young tradesman.
Azubah would probably disgrace herself by

an alliance with a fiddler, but Tom, though he
got his Jiving by fiddling, was a sacred amateur
in her eyes.

The two young people were together all
day, and strolled by the water-side together.
It night be interesting to know what they
found to talk about? Well, for the greater
part of their time they talked about harmony
and counterpoint and thorough bass. Tom,
once astride his hobby with his feet well in the
stirrups was hard to throw, and Azubah was
as ready to admire him on hobby-back as she
would have been elsewhere. It might have
been droll, had there been anyone to listen, to
have heard this handsome young man enthusiastically
grating to this charming girl about
the exquisite employment of the oboe in
Strapinski's last symphony or the noble use of
the drum in Hoffmannn's orchestral version of
somebody else's theme. His face would glow,
his eyes would flash, and he would hum little

passages with gestures almost as vivid as his
friend Baretti's, and improvised ' ta ra ra, la rara,'
nodding his head to the tune. To her, it
was an almost unmixed happiness to walk and
talk with him in this unrestricted freedom,
though now and then reason lifted its head
and made a protest against the folly of her
dreams.

They went strolling along gaily. Tom was
well-mounted and his hobby was as steady to
ride as ever. There are men who could find
other and more appropriate themes than thorough
bass with such a face and such a pair of
eyes beside them, and in a young man Tom's
devotion to music was a little absurd at such
an hour. Art is all very well in its way, but
it does not fill the whole of life. Perhaps he
began to be aware of that, for he dismounted
from his hobby on a sudden and became
preternaturally quiet. He walked on by
Azubah's side, and neither of them noticed

the way very much or thought about the
time.

It's an odd sort of chance,' said Tom at
last, looking round on his companion, ' that
throws us together again in this way.'

Yes,' she said, 'an odd chance.'

I don't know how it is,' said Tom, ' but I
have been thinking a good deal lately of my
childhood. We were playmates one day, do
you remember ? '

No,' she said, with some surprise, ' I can't
recall it.'

He told her drolly of a day on which he
had called at the farm and had found her with
a small village boy in string harness. For some
forgotten reason the steed rebelled against the
driver, threw off the harness, and went home
in dudgeon. Then the driver had besought or
commanded the bystander to be harnessed, and
Tom had consented, and had been driven
shamefaced all about the farmhouse and the

fold-yard, until, as Fate would have it, Mr.
Carroll rode by, and stared with frozen majesty
at the spectacle.

I don't think,' said Tom with a laugh, ' that
he ever quite recovered from it. I was ten
years of age at the time, and you, I think, were
three. My father saw a fatal want of dignity
about me from that hour.'

Azubah took this ridiculous infant reminiscence
almost seriously, and Tom felt that any
little jest that lay in the remembrance had fallen
flat.

It seems only the other day,' he began
again, after a pause, ' that you were a baby.
And now you're a public personage with a great
reputation.'

Somehow that statement seemed to fall flat,
also, and her only response was an uncertain little
laugh. She had all manner of things to think
of. The reminiscence, slight and childish as it
was, was a reminder of the distance that had

always existed between them. She was thinking,
too, how long it would have taken her to
camb to the place she stood in without his
help, and how ill he could afford the help
when he gave it. It was impossible to avoid the
question whether he had cared for her in more
than a common way since he had aided her at
such a time. She was yearning over him withall
her heart and, as it seemed, with every fibre
of her frame, and he knew nothing of it, and
would never know.

Tom was quick to discern the change in her
manner, but was unable to read it. It chilled
him and froze the current of his gay talk.
They turned and retraced their steps in silence,
and every now and then he stole a look at her.
It was not in him by nature to be furtive in any
of his ways, but he did not look at her boldly
and openly, feeling, as he did, that she
was already embarrassed for some reason,
and not desiring to embarrass her more.

What had he said that could at all disturb
hei'?

He Alas tall and broad, and she looked very
slight beside him. She knew by some mesmeric
influence that he was looking at her, and do
what she would she could not keep the blushes
from her cheek. Then she blushed for blushing,
and when he next stole a look at her, though
her eyes were downcast she seemed to know it,
and her face was all celestial rosy red. He
began to guess, and he began to feel an odd
tremor at the heart. Pretty ? She was sweetly
pretty. How delicately the soft, blushing cheek
was rounded. Her ear was like a clear, rosy
shell. The fine, long lashes lay upon her
cheek with a provoking beauty of their own,
and sm-ely she had the prettiest lips and clin
in the world.

It is so difficult for words to set forth this
kind of thing. He was not taking an inventory
of her beauties, but they stole on him one by

one with a kind of honeyed surprise, and he
thought she cared for him a little more than
common. An innocent, loyal, brave, and
gentle nature he knew she had. If she loved
him ? He thrilled and flushed at that with a
sudden touch of triumph and delight. If he
were only an insolent and self-satisfied ass, and
she did nothing of the sort .^ He grew curiously
chilly.

They walked back in unbroken silence, and
found that they had been so long away that
the boat was ready to start, and everybody
else belonging to their party was aboard. The
sun was down and the first shade of evening
was in the air. The moon rose, and Azubah,
once more under the shelter of her aunt's wing,
sat down and leaned her head upon the vessel's
rail, and watched the gathering film of light in
the skies as the nearer planet grew brighter and
the distant stars less bright. She knew without
turning her head that Tom Carrol was near at

hand engaged in the same sort of exercise.
The notable woman employed her own happy
faculty and got to sleep, and Tom was somehow
beside the girl again.

A lovely night,' said Tom, softly.

'A lovely night,' she answered, like a
pretty echo.

Don't you find it a little chilly sitting
here ? ' he asked. ' Shall we walk along the
deck ? '

She arose without speaking, and Tom proffered
his arm. She took it, and they walked the
deck together. It was ridiculous, but he had
nothing to say, and, beat about in his mind ashe
would, he could find nothing that seemed
worth saying. Her hand rested on his arm like
a warm snowflake, and passing his right hand
across he took hold of it and drew it further.
He could feel that it shook a little, and its
tremor communicated itself to him. He was
making love to the girl he knew, and perhaps

he had beendoi:ig it longer than he had known.
What right had he ?

They walked to and fro, and the hand still
trembled near his heart. Most of \h% people
were below, and the few on deck where clustered
near the wheel watching the great line of
moonlight in the water, or chatting gaily in
two or three different languages amongst themselves.
The bows of the boat rose high, and
when the two walked forward Tom could see
that the seat immediately below the topgallant
forecastle was in deep shadow. Anybody sitting
there would be invisible from amidships.
He turned this fact over in his mind with a
curious flutter in his breast, answering all the
while to that flutter of the little hand upon his
arm. Two or three minutes after he had first
made observations of this shadow he paused in
it and Azubah paused with him.

Shall we sit down here ? ' he asked.

She sat down without verbal answer, removing

lier hand as she did so, and he sat down
beside her. He had nothing to say. There
was nothing in his mind worth saying. But ina
while his arm was about Azubah's waist, and
lie was not in the least attempting to repulse
him. His arm enfolded her, and her whole
figure swayed to his touch, and her head fell
upon his shoulder. He took her right hand in
his left and he bent down and kissed her.
Then he made a discovery, and hailed it
quaintly.

I am in love,' he said to himself, ' and I
never knew what it was like before ! '

It is not difficult to fall in love temporarily
with a pretty girl when you sit alone with her,
shadowed from moonlight, with an arm about
her waist, but Tom knew that his hour was
come. He was not in love for a minute or a
day. It was all over with him, and he surrendered,
with that pride and rapture peculiar
to his race and sex in like circumstances. To

the girl it was or seemed as pure a miracle as
ever came to pass, but she was content with it.
How they talked (and Tom at least found his
tongue in a minute or two) is no affairs of yours
or mine. It was all settled between them
before the boat reached the quay, though the

journey seemed disappointingly short, and when
Mrs. Askin awoke at the bustle about her, Tom
approached her resolutely, and led her ashore.
Mrs. Askin,' he said, when they had bade
good-night to the rest of their party, ' I have

news for you. . Azubah and I are going to be

married.'

The old lady gasped, and would have sat

down in the roadway if Tom had not already

given her his arm.

The Lord help you, sir,' she said, ' but the

Squire's never overlook it, and you'll be no

better than a fiddler to the end of your days.'

CHAPTER XXXIV.

Whilst Tom was making the most of this new-happiness
of his, Baretti was painting away in
London in an almost melodramatic gloom of
spirit. He knew nothing of Tom's utter faithlessness
to his old love, and he still held himself
bound by all the old ties of friendship,
gratitude, and honour which had hitherto so
strongly held him.

Most people were out of town, but Baretti
stayed behind and worked. Lording and Mary
were in Switzerland, and the painter's heart if
not his body was with them. He would tear
himself out of languor and despondency, and
would work at his easel like a slave during the
hours of light the long days of late summer

VOL. III. E

afforded, but at night he would droop, and
would sit alone with his unlighted pipe between
his teeth, surveying a sorrowful and lonely-future.
There is no doubt he suffered more
than he need have done, but that is true of
most people. Half the troubles of the world
are wantonly created or wantonly fomented,
and when a young man is hopelessly in love
he likes to suffer.

Yet everything was real enough to Baretti,
and his own passionate temperament made his
tongue-tied love a heavy burden to him. If
he had been free to speak and then to go away
somewhere, anywhere ! But to speak would
have been to cover himself with dishonour and
to sacrifice everything for which, in these late
years, he had so intensely struggled. No, no,
no. Everything he had and was, was Carroll's.
It was Carroll who had saved him, Carroll who
had made him, Carroll to v/bom he owed all
things. Not a whisper to dishonour the purity .

and completeness of his love for his preserver
should ever pass his lips.

The devil tempted him, of course. Tom
and Lording were far apart, and likely enough
to be permanently divided. Tom was out in
the cold, and Baretti was in the inmost circle
of art and fashion, and raking in money handover
hand. The poor fiddler's last chance of
marrying the heiress was gone — the wealthy
painter might speak and might have a chance
with her. There was no great barrier of
descent between them ; Mary was simply a
lady, and Baretti had a right to claim to be
called a gentleman.

No man lives entirely in the 
of one emotion, and no emotion is always
equal in its forces. There were a thousand
other things to think of in the world. But,
after all, this was the dominant of Baretti's life,
and was so present with him as to make other
hopes, wishes, and concerns feeble beside it.
R 2

Sometimes it was terrible to suffer, sometimes
it was sweet to suffer, as lovers have a knack
of ruling things. Altogether it would not be
easy to exaggerate the virtue which held him
so firmly to his gratitude, and so far away from
his love. It has been said already that gratitude
was a passion with him, but the passions
are not alike in strength, and when gratitude
wrestles against love, a dwarf is pitted against
a giant.

The poor painter's greatest treasure, and
solace, and torment was that first sketch he had
made for Mary Lording's portrait. It drew him
with a singular fascination in this time of loneliness,
and he often took it from its hiding place
and smoked his pipe before it in a mood of
adoration, sometimes passionate, and sometimes
tender. No saint ever had such yearnings
towards his favourite shrine.

The fountain sparkled in the sunlight, and
the garden gleamed behind the beautiful figure.

The branches moved about her, and the summer
breeze had caught the one loose wave of hair
which lay across her forehead. Her eyes
smiled welcome still, and her feet were ready
to step from the canvas. Any man who has
been in love can guess what all this was to him,
with what desires it filled him, with what
despairs it wrung him.

He sat one evening looking at this portrait
imtil the shadows began to gather pretty
thickly and he could see it no longer. Then he
arose and drew the curtains, and lit his lamps,
and sat down again to his feast of grief and
passion. Once he arose and kissed the face
that smiled so upon him — a poor satisfaction as
any lover may guess. But after that he began
to pace the room in a new trouble.

This,' he said, as he went up and down,
is disloyal to the very heart of things. What
right have I to think of her at all ? I must
tear her from my heart altogether. I must

burn her portrait. I have no right to keep it.
One of these days I shall lose all self-possession,
and all I have suffered will be wasted. I
must burn it ! '

Burn it? It felt like burning his own
heart — and burning the actual woman he
loved along with it. The very smile the
pictured face wore seemed to beseech him. He
walked in great agitation for a time, pausing
now and then to look at the smiling face.

You must go,' he said, at length, speaking
under his breath. 'We must part. You make
me mad with longing, and fill me with traitorous
thoughts. You must go. We must part.'

He would wrap her in cerements of lead,
and let her fall into the river where she could
lie deep, and decay slowly, out of sight, as
dead things should do. She would be dead
then to him, and his passion was so strong that
even this fanciful idea took such a hold of him
that he felt like a murderer in the contemplation

of it. He marched up and down the room,
but his thoughts were away in a peaceful
reach of the Thames lie knew, and over andover
and over again he committed his treasure
to its grave. He saw the water divide, and he
watched the ripples as they rounded and died
away.

It was a sore struggle altogether, and only
a lover could understand the man, or the battle
that raged within him. But at last he made
up his mind. It was altogether unwholesome
for the soul to submit to the intoxication his
thoughts before this picture brought him.
Even if Mary were lost to Carroll for ever —
even if that best and most generous and lovable
of men must lose her and must bear the unspeakable
pain of thinking her as in another
man's embraces, it could never be Baretti's
happiness that should bring such misery to his
friend. All this was fiery, and leigh-flown, and
romantic somewhat beyond the common run,

but then it was in the man's nature, and to
him it was all as real as his half-crowns are
to a money-grubber, his patent to an inventor,
his acres to a landowner, your grief to
you.

A good share of a man's duties lies in the
attempt to compel himself to feel that something
is dearer than the dearest. With Baretti,
as with countless thousands of men before him,
the choice lay between love and honour. Love
was infinitely dearest, and .therein lay a confession
from which his soul revolted. He must,
he would make honour yet dearer. How easy
to let honour go, if only for a day or two, how
hard to lose love for a moment, how hard even
to think of it. You can forgive the southern
nature its little flashes of melodrama, its exultation
in its own pain, its wanton blowing of the
flames. When humbug grows melodramatic
you know its hollow rant and stage strides, its
mouthing periods. You can laugh at all that

with an excellent appetite for humour. But
you forgive a little of what looks like playacting
to a man whose heart is in agony, who
stands torn between love and honour, and fights
away from love to cast in his lot with her cold
enemy.

It took Baretti the whole of that night to
win, but he won at last, and he knew that he
had conquered. He took the picture from its
place and set it in his arm-chair, with a lamp
on either side of it, and he knelt down before
it and said good-bye. He kissed the face with
tears of last renunciation and farewell, and he
set the picture on the cushioned seat and laid
his head upon it, and his arms around it.

It was bright morning outside by this time,
but he knew nothing of that. There was some
peace in his heart already, partly because
nobody can go on suffering for ever, and pain
brings relief by sheer fatigue at last, and partly
because he knew that he had won the greatest

fight of his life. No man but himself would
ever know it, and he had only fought for a
fancy after all, yet what is life but thought ?
He had conquered, and in no thought of his
heart could he ever be false to Carroll anymore.
But he was tired, tired, and as he knelt
there over the picture with his tumbled black
curls resting on it he fell asleep.

The great Hoffmannn had explored Manchester,
Birmingham, Glasgow, Liverpool, Edinburgh,
all the giant places that lie outside
London, and the smaller cities were now being
awakened by the prospect of his coming.
Gloucester lay next upon his programme, and
this began to bring Tom near home again. In
Worcester he had flatly refused to appear for
reasons which are likely to be obvious.

When he had parted from Azubah on that
fateful night, he had gone straight home to his
hotel and had resigned himself to his own
thoughts. They were somewhat wild and

incoherent to begin with, and he was not at
first so perfectly sure that he was happy as he
felt he ought to have been. He was sufficiently
divided from his father already, but this new
step of his had widened the gap beyond closure.
There was something to take the gilt off his
joy and triumph in that reflection. Then
Lording would know of it, and Mary would
know of it, and all his world would hear it.
Well, it was done, and as he thought of the
matter his heart warmed again in due time,
and he was ready to face anything and everything.


It came quite suddenly into his mind that
he had ample time to run up by the night mail
and see Azubah's father. He would rather tell
him of this by Avoid of mouth than by letter,
and he would like to take Baretti into his confidence
too. Without giving himself time to
grow cool on this fancy, he scrawled a hasty
line to Azubah, and having packed his portmanteau

and filled his cigar-case, he set out by-cab
for the railway station, and embarked upon
his journey. He succeeded in getting a
carriage to himself, tucked himself comfortably
in his rug, set his portmanteau beneath his head
for a pillow, and fell off to sleep quite joyously.
Prom some cause or other the train was
delayed, and he reached London more than an
hour beyond his time. He was not sorry for
this, since he had arrived, even now, at a rather
unholy sort of hour. He drank a cup of coffee
at a coffee-house near the station, and then,
portmanteau in hand, set out for his old residence
in Montague Gardens. When he arrived
the maid was cleaning the steps, and he gave
her a beaming good-morning. She arose with
a little scream of surprise, and stood wiping her
hands on her apron and curtseying before him
with a face of unmistakable welcome.

Mr. Baretti is in town, I suppose ? ' said
Tom.

Oh yes, sir,' said the maid ; ' but I don't
suppose you'll hind him up yet.'

Never mind,' returned Tom ; ' I'll wait in
the studio until he awakes.'

The maid opened the door and stood by for
him to pass. He ascended the stairs with great
quiet, and for a moment paused before the door
which led to his old chambers with a passing
wonder as to what manner of man lived in
them now. Then he went upwards on tiptoe
towards Baretti's rooms, and, turning the
handle of the studio door almost stealthily, he
entered. There were two lamps burning
dimly and set on chairs, and, though it was
broad daylight outside, everything was dusky
and undefined within the room. He walked
forward and turned up the wick of one of the
lamps, and, to his sudden terror and surprise,
saw Baretti, half-kneeling, half-lying at the armchair
between them. It seemed to Tom's eyes
as if the painter had fallen there in a swoon.

The first thing he did was to sweep aside the
curtains, so that the light rushed in and left
each lamp a sulky blot against the morning.

'Baretti,' he cried, returning to the prostrate
figure and seizing it by the shoulder.
Baretti ! what is the matter ? '

The painter awoke and staggered half
blindly to his feet. Tom caught sight of the
picture.

You here, Carroll. What is the matter ? '

Then Baretti caught sight of the picture
also and remembered all, but being only half
awakened snatched at it and took it to his
breast to hide it. JSTot a second later he saw
what he had done. His resolve had gone for
nothing and he had betrayed himself.

Baretti,' said Tom, gently. ' Baretti/
There was a world of meaning in his voice to
the painter's hearing. It sounded like the
utterance of judgment on disloyalty. He had
not a word to say. He had betrayed himself

and Carroll could guess everything. ' Let me
look,' said Tom, laying a hand upon the
picture. Baretti surrendered it without resistance
and stood before him, drooping his head
like a man detected in a crime. ' You never
told me of this.'

Nobody but a fool could have misread the
case, and Tom, without pausing to ask himself
a question, knew it all. Baretti's look and
attitude told everything.

You always cared for her ? ' said Tom.
From the beginning ? ' He recalled things
that had happened two or three years ago as
if they had been affairs of yesterday. Baretti
offered no answer, still reading in his friend's
voice the voice of judgment. 'You never spoke
to me or her.'

Never,' said Baretti. ' Believe what you
will of me but that.' He spoke this with bent
head, and an attitude altogether despairing,
but suddenly he flashed upright in his own

vehement way, and stood with clasped hands
before his face — ' Behave anything but that.'

'God bless you, old fellow,' cried Tom,
throwing the picture away, and seizing the outstretched
hands. * Tell me the truth. Tell
me everything. Do you — care for her ? '
Baretti hung his head anew, and said nothing.
Be candid with me,' said Tom. ' I will be
candid with you to begin with. I have news
for you. I am engaged to be married.'

Baretti stopped him before he could speak:
another word.

I have cleared my heart of every weakness.
I can be happy to see you happy.'

'My dear, dear old fellow,' cried Tom,
wringing the painter's hands. ' Let us play at
no cross purposes. You are in love with Miss
Lording. Tell me the truth.' Baretti hung
his head again and said nothing. ' And you
have hidden it for my sake? Well — go and
woo and win her, man, and wear her worthily.'

Earetti stared at him like a madman.

My dear fellow,' cried Tom, * I am engaged
to be married, as I told you. I haven't
thought of Miss Lording for a. year and a half
past.'

Baretti glared at him and then fairly blazed :

You threw her away ? '

Congratulate me, Baretti,' said Tom, half
hysterically, for his curious interview had
shaken him. ' I am going to be married early
in September. I came up to town,' he hurried
on, not daring to pause, 'on purpose to tell
you. You remember Miss Moore '

'You are engaged to Miss Moore?' said
Baretti, like a man in a dream.

I am engaged to Miss Moore,' said Tom,
and we are to be married in September.'

Carroll,' cried Baretti, ' I have wasted more
repentance than ever was wasted before. You
shall know, my friend, you shall know. I
thought you loved her. And I knelt last night

VOL. III. s

before her picture and said good-bye to her,

and put her away out of my heart.'

You care for her ? ' said Tom again. ' I

have been like a blind man, Baretti. You

]have cared for her all along.'

I loved her,' said Baretti, looking straight

in his friend's eyes, ' from the first hour I ever

saw her. That was why I ran away to

Naples.'

No man ever wished a friend good fortune

with a better heart,' said Tom, shaking Baretti's

hands once more.

The painter for the first time returned the

pressure, and, suddenly turning away, hurried

into his bedroom. Tom, being thus left alone,

forbore to follow, but sat down and half
mechanically lit a cigar. When he had thrown
away the picture it had fallen face downwards
on the seat of the arm-chair, and he stretched
forth a hand and set it up so that he could
see it. Any but a blind man would have

had to confess that the face was lovely, but
he looked at it with a sort of wonder that
he had ever loved it. It lacked the something
he knew now. There was not a fault in
it. It was not only beautiful, but it looked
good, and true, and honest and amiable. It
spoke all womanly virtues and sweetness, and
he had loved the woman it presented to him
once, and loved her loyally. And yet he knew
a sweeter face, not so beautiful and infinitely
more beautiful, and he was contented enough
with his own prospects. There is just a likelihood
that he had seen love in the one face and
had not seen it in the other. Mary's look had
never flattered that lofty and delicate egotism
which is, after all, a part of a man's love,
though he rarely guesses it. In ninety cases
out of a hundred it is the woman's worship that
wins a lasting love, and in the remaining ten
her cool disdain.

But it is a bold game to analyse where-analysis

must necessarily give offence, and be the
more offensive in proportion to its truthfulness.

Tom smoked for an hour well contented,
and at the end of that time Baretti, who had
moved with such shy silence that his friend had
not heard a sound, emerged from his bedroom,
dragging a big portmanteau after him. He
was dressed as if for a journey.

Why, what is this ? ' said Tom with a
semblance of gaiety.

I am going to Switzerland,' said Baretti.

CHAPTEE XXXV.

When the news came to Thomas Carroll the
elder that nephew Mark was being hunted as a
perjurer and that son Thomas had been set free
and pronounced blameless, it was naturally a
shock to him. For once in his life (he had to
confess it to himself) he had been mistaken.
The impossible had happened, and after that
one might be ready to believe in almost anything.


He, Thomas Carroll, of Trench House, Over-hill,
had made a mistake, and after his recognition
of til at fact the universe might well seem
topsy-turvy. He did not hold his head so well
up as he used to do, and he began to age with
astonishing rapidity. His old public haunts

knew him no more ; lie had spoken his last
pompous judgment from the bench, attended
his last licensing meeting, taken the chair at
the last agricultural dinner. He was old, he
was friendless, he was lonely, and he had been
horribly ill-used. If Tom had come to him
to beg his pardon and to promise an atonement
for the future, he could almost have found it in
his heart to forgive him and to take him back

again.

The clergyman of the parish called and
tried to make peace between Mr. Carroll and
Tom, and made so little by his movement that
he vowed never to enter the house again.

You are all very well in sour way, no
doubt, sir,' said Mr. Carroll, ' and you perform
to my satisfaction the duties of the position to

which I appointed you ; but in presuming to
advise me, sir, you forget yourself.'

A clergyman advising Lording, for instance,
would have seemed a natural spectacle enough

the representative of the Church had a constitutional
right to advise — but to preach to
him! His gall had not been so stirred for
many a day.

Yet, thinking things over, he was more and
more inclined to hope that Tom would come
and beg his pardon and renounce his present
mode of life and become a gentleman once
more. Of course the lad had been to blame,
but he had suffered beyond his deserts ; and
the old gentleman was so far softened that he
was prepared to be flattered and appealed to
and made much of. He felt wonderfully magnanimous
when he thought of his own readiness
to accept Tom's apology and repentance,
and he felt oftentimes extremely angry that
Tom did not take advantage of his generosity.

The one thing which made Tom at all
noticeable to the elder Carroll was the fact
that he bore his own charmed name. He
knew nothing of his growing musical fame, or

the curious interest with which the public mind
surrounded him. But the newspapers were
wiser, and Tom was a celebrity. The great
man's amazement when he met his own name
in print in close connection with Azubah
Moore's and Tom's was a thing only to be
described as superlative. 'We understand,'
said the great daily intelligencer of fashion,
that a marriage has been arranged between
Mr. Thomas Carroll, the well-known composer,
and Miss Moore, of Overhill. The lady is a
daughter of a tenant on the estate of Mr.
Carroll, senior.'

When the first shock of amazement was
over, Mr. Carroll senior contented himself
for a little while by the stiffest possible certainty
that the whole story was a lie. Tom
seemed to be a mark for scandal of one sort or
another. By-and-by this certainty began to*
loosen and to spread into a tangle of uncertainty,
and at last, after a day or two, he cut

out the paragraph which had so amazed him,
gummed it to a sheet of letter paper, aud wrote
beneath it : —

Sir, — Oblige me by contradicting this
report.

'Yours, &c.,

Thomas Carroll.'

When he had folded up this lordly note
and had directed and sealed it, he. began to
doubt whether he would send it after all. He
set it, in this indecision, in one of the drawers
in his writing-desk and locked it there, and
every day his sense of dignity and his wishes
had a fight together when he went to look at
the note and debated whether he should send
it. One morning not more than a week after
he had read the announcement of Tom's impending
marriage, he saw at his solitary 
another proclamation which took him
by surprise. ' We understand,' said Fashion's

intelligencer, ' that a marriage has been arranged
between Mr. Antonio Baretti, A.E.A., and
the only daughter of Mr. Lording, of Beech
Tree Hall, Worcestershire.'

Surely the world was upside down.

People called upon him at times, and he
was not altogether shut in from the world.
He heard and even invited opinions upon the
astounding news above recorded. It became
evident to him that the world at large had
gone mad, and he began to be seriously of
belief that he was the only sane man left in the
country.

Still reading day by day the columns of the
intelligencer of Fashion, he found one morning
a record of the marriage of Mr. Antonio
Baretti, A.E.A., and Mary, only daughter of
Charles Lording, Esq. Scarcely had he read
this through than he fell upon ' Carroll —
MoORE,' and read that Thomas Carroll and
Azubah Moore were also united in the bonds

of matrimony. The first thing he did was to
ring his bell, and this summons being answered
by the butler, he gave him solemn warning and
a cheque for six months' wages. Then he sent
for the other servants one by one and dismissed
and paid each of them, down to coachman,
groom, and stable-boy. The domestics, consulting
With each other, believed that they saw
a peculiar something in his manner, and determined
to send for a doctor. The doctor came
and managed to pretend a casual visit. To his
surprise the master of the house received him
with open hands.

You arrive at an auspicious moment,' he
said graciously, ' and I am glad to welcome the
first volunteer in favour of my scheme.'

I do not as yet,' said the doctor, cautiously,
fully understand your scheme, sir.'

No .^ ' said Mr. Carroll, with a pitying
smile. 'I had thought it clear even to the
world's intelligence.'

Doctor Morton began to be sure of what
the servants had only suspected.

Pardon my dulness, Mr. Carroll,' he said,
with suavity and submission, ' may I beg that
you will be good enough to instruct me .^ '

With pleasure,' said the master of the
house. ' My asylum is open to the world at
large, but I receive volunteers only. You
display some power of reflection by coming
here at all, and I have hope of your ultimate
cure.'

I am happy to hear you say so,' returned
the doctor, beginning to see his way. ' I shall
be delighted if you will undertake my case.'

Morton,' said Mr. Carroll, ' you have lucid
moments. I have hope of you.'

I trust, sir,' said the doctor, shrewdly,
that you may be induced to extend your
benevolence to at least one or two of your old
servants.'

Nothing will delight me more,' he answered,

majestically. ' But not one of them has made
submission.'

After some further parley, the doctor
secured leave to act as Carroll's ambassador, .,
and took advantage of the first moment of
absence to wire to Tom that his father was in a
serious condition, and that it would be necessary
for him at once to call upon the family lawyer
in town. Next he wired to the family lawyer,
and then gave the servants instructions to stay
in the house for the time being. Should they
meet their master, they were to agree to everything
he said.

Mr. Carroll watched the doctor with seat
care, and had more and more hope of his recovery.
The doctor held the situation with
great skill, but, do all he could, he was unable
to keep the news from the village. Before
either Tom or the family lawyer could arrive
the whole population of Overliill knew that the
Squire's intellect had given way. His delusion

was that the whole world was mad, and that
he, being the only sane creature left in it, was
appointed to be its deliverer. He was altogether
harmless, and no more pompons in his manner
than of old. He introduced the doctor to
people about the village as a promising patient,
and held him up as an example to be followed.


Tom and the lawyer arrived together, and
he welcomed them as an accession to his stock
of likely cases.

My dear Tom,' he said suavely, ' I could
wish that I had adopted this course earlier.
But it is only of late days that I have become
convinced of the truth, and in judging you at
the time I made no allowance for the general
mental aberration of the world. It is not yet
recognised, but in time it will be. The whole
world is mad. Providence has been pleased to
spare me from the general affliction, and I shall
make it my humble duty to inaugurate a cure.

I can hope to do no more, for the span of life
is brief and the task promises to be almost
endless.'

All tins was very terrible for Tom to listen
to, but he got through with it as well as he
could, and assented to everything.

I believe you are married, Tom ? ' said the
elder, after a pause.

Yes, sir,' returned Tom, dreading an outburst
which might result in damage.

A total abolition of association between
the sexes would perhaps be the shortest way to
an universal cure,' said his father calmly. 'But
that cannot be hoped for. The best thing you
can do will be to bring your wife here and
allow her to be placed under my control and
influence. If she assents willingly — not otherwise.
I am too hampered by want of time to
undertake the hopeless cases. The only way
with them will be tj let them die out.'

All things considered, this seemed the wisest

tliiiify to do for the moment, even though a
madman had suggested it.

The man of law went back to his business,
and Avhen he was questioned as to his client's
sanity, he had but one answer : —

Mr. Carroll says now what he thought
always.'

This was no doubt a somewhat crude
presentation of the case, but there was a taste
of truth in it.

Tom could not desert his father at such a
time as this, and Azubah would not be separated
from her husband. So they took up
their abode at Trench House, and, in spite of
their affection for each other, were but a sad
young pair of married lovers for a month or
two. Mr. Carroll treated them with great
kindness.

I compel your will in nothing,' he would
say. ' My aim is to inspire by example.'

So they did whatever they wished, and had

perfect freedom ; but there Alas always a shade
upon the house, and upon their hearts.

The county neighbours were, of course, all
anxiety to see Tom's rustic bride. They found
out by-and-by that the parish church was the
only place in which they had a chance of seeing
her, and those who were far afield from Over-hill
got invitations from the local magnates,
and went to church with the laudable purpose
of staring at her. The concert platform is a
school in which a woman can learn a look of
perfect self-possession, and Azubah had learned
it. When the county magnates stared at the
rustic bride, they saw a lady of charming
aspect, who moved as gracefully and naturally
as a bird Hies or a fish swims. Walking is a
rare art amongst English women, and she had
it to per lection. She was so dressed that her
dress might have been born with her and
grown up with her — the result of artistic taste
and a simple nature. When they heard her

VOL. 111. T

speak — and only a few of them as yet had the
opportunity — they made note of a voice singularly
soft and liquid. This pleasing organ was
set to good English without a trace of rusticity
in its tone. They were bound to own that she
looked like a lady, talked like a lady, and bore
herself like a lady, and having been compelled
to these admissions, they agreed gravely that it
was easy to acquire a veneer of good manners.

Now, you veneer worthless woods, but
good ones you are content to polish. Nobody
venders ebony, satinw^ood, or walnut. These
have their good looks internally, and in like
manner and for like reason Tom's wife stood
in need of no veneer. Even the county magnates
have found this out by now, for the world
is at large good-natured, and can forget its owen
egotism if you give it time.

Mr. Carroll kept his asylum and watched
his keeper with kindly dignity and diligence
for the space of one year. At the end of that

time he slept with his fathers, and was lamented.
His year of madness was marked by a wonderful
gentleness towards all people, and he was the
very pink of courtesy. The only sane man ina
world of lunatics, he made allowances, and
nothing perturbed him. Had he lasted longer,
he might have lived to be as well-beloved as
any man in the county, for there was a sweetness
about him which few could resist. Everybody
humoured him and was gentle with him
in remembrance of his affliction ; and he,
pitying that affliction in all mankind, humoured
everybody, and was gentle with high and low.
A year later (and that comparatively is
but the other day) the heir to Trench
House began really to take the place in the
world to which his position, his abilities and
his nature gave him title. There is no man
happier and there are few more prosperous,
though there are many who might beat him at
the game of counting sovereigns.

There was a little odd strangeness for
awhile between Tom and Baretti. You see
that Mrs. Baretti had once been engaged to
Tom, and that the engagement had never been
formally annulled when both the faithless ones
got married. That feeling wore away, and
they are as staunch friends as ever. Baretti
lives at Beech Tree Hall and paints there,
and Lording is prodigiously proud of him. A
masterpiece of portraiture which hangs in the
dining-room at this hour represents an old gentleman
of genial British aspect, in a dressing-gown,
looking at a young lady of lovely exterior,
who has an olive coloured half nude
young rascal in her lap ; a lad with beautiful
limbs, and eyes, and curls like Baretti's.

Tom is at work yy\\ a new opera which is to
give England a right to claim a place in the
world of music. Baretti swears it, and when
men talk of Wagner, or Verdi, or Gounod as
possible rivals to Tom Carroll, he shrugs his

shoulders and abandons discussion. To Tom's
mind Baretti is the greatest painter in the
world, and they are bosom friends still, and
likely to be.

Carroll,' said the little man one night as
they sat together in a half-darkness by the
fireside after dinner at Tom's house. ' Carroll,
are you happy ? '

As the day is long,' said Tom. ' And so
are you ? '

There is no man happier in the world,'
returned the painter. He arose and paced up
and down in the old way. ' It is strange,' he
said, after a long pause, * but everything is
strange. It was a villain's struggle to damage
you which made me happy. He left you
unharmed in the long run, too.'

Poor Mark,' said Tom. ' It was a bitter
close to a sad chapter, Baretti.'

I thank God solemnly that he died in
prison,' said Baretti. ' I thank God solemnly

that there is yet to be found here and there a
touch of justice in the world. I thank God
that he Ives no longer to blot an honourable
name and to be a thorn in the best and gentlest
heart I ever knew.'

THE END.

LONDON : PRINTED BY

»OTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

CHATTO & Winds's
List of Books**

FoY NOVELS, see pp. 19-25-
Beautifully bound in a novel style, small 4to, i6s.

THE LADY OP THE LAKE. By Sir Walter

Scott. With numerous fine Illustrations.

The Lady of the Lake " has been chosen as a subject for illustration, pot only for
its picturesque features, which invite in an unusual degree the sympathetic treatment
of the artist, but also for the romantic personal interest which the story inspires, and
which gives it a close hold on the affections of all readers. So thorough is the verisimilitude
of the poem, and so accurate are its descriptions of scenery, that the
events which it describes are accepted as absolute history in the region where the
scene is laid ; and no true Highlander looks with tolerance on anyone who ventures
to doubt their actual occurrence. It has happened, therefore, that the romantic poem
in which the genius of Scott has united aiui harm onset the legends of Loch Katrine
and the Trosachs has become the best Handbook te the Scottish Lake-region. It is
believed that the present Illustrated Edition will be a welcome souvenir to thousands
of travellers who have visited that beautiful region.

In order to secure accuracy as well as freshness of treatment, the Publishers commissioned
Mr. A. V. S. Anthony, under whose supervision this Edition has been
executed, to visit the Scottish Highlands and make sketches on the spot. Nearly
every scene of the poem was personally visited and sketched by him, and these
Sketches have afforded the basis of the landscapes offered in this book. These landscapes,
for obvious reasons, depict th: Scenery as it ts at the present time ; while the
Costumes, Weapons, and other accessories of the figure-pieces are of the period of the
action of the poem, being carefully studied from contemporary pictures and descriptions,
or from later authoritative works.

Cro\\'n 8vo, Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d.

Advertising, A History of,

From the Earliest Times. Illustrated by Anecdotes, Curious Specimens,
and Notices of Successful Advertisers. By Henry Sampson.

Allen (Grant), Works by:

Colin Clout's Calendar. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
The Evolutionist at Large. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Vignettes from Nature. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
One of the best specimens of popular scientific exposition that we have eves
had the good fortune to fall in with"— Leads Mercury.

Crov.-n 8vo, cloth extra, with 639 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Architectural Styles, A Handbook of.

From the German of A. Rosengarten, by W. Collett-Sandar>

Artemus Ward:

Artemus Ward's Works: The Works of Charles Farmer Browne,
better known as Artemus Ward. Crown 8vo, with Portrait and Facsimile,
cloth extra, ys 6d.
Artemus Ward's Lecture on the Mormons. With 32 Illustrations.
E dite d, with P ref ace, by Edward P. Kingston. 6d,

Ashton (John), Works by :

A History of the Chap-Books of the Eighteenth Century.

By John Ashton. With nearly 400 Illustrations, engraved in facsimile

of the originals. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d,
Social Life in the Reign of Queen Anne. Taken from Original

Sources. By John Ashton. With nearly One Hundred Illustrations.

New and cheaper Edi tion, crown 8vo, cloth, extra, 7s. 6d. [Shortly ,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London ;

To gather with Lists of Bankers from 1677. By F. G. HiLTON Price.

Barley (Rev. C. W.), Works by:

English Surnames : Their Sources and Significations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature. Crown 8vo, cloth extra

ys. 6d.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra. Illustrated, 75. 6d.

Bartholomew Pair, Memoirs of.

By Henry Morley. New Edition , with One Hunt red Illustrations.
Imperial 4to, cloth extra, gilt and gilt edges, 21s. per volume.

Beautiful Pictures by British Artists :

A Gathering of Favourites from our Picture Galleries. In Two Series.
All engraved on Steel in the highest style of Art. Edited, with
Notices of the Artists, by Syd ney Armytage, Mea.

Small 4to, green and gold, 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 7s. 6d,

Bernstein's As Pretty as Seven,

And other German Stories. Collected by Ludwig Bernstein.
With Additional Tales by the Brothers Grimm, and 100 Illustrations

by Richter.

One Shilling Monthly, Illustrated.

Belgravia for 1883.

Maid, of Athens," Justin McCarthy's New Serial Story,
Illustrated by Fpe;d. Barnard, was begun in the January Number
of Belgravia, which Number contained also the First Portion of
a Story in Three Parts, by Ouida, entitled " Frescoes ; " the
continuation of Wilkie Collins's Novel, "Heart and Science ; "
a further instalment of Mrs. Alexander's Novel, " The Admiral's
Ward. ; " and other Matters of Interest.
*^* Now ready, the Volume for November 1882 to February 1883

which includes the Belgravia Annual), cloth extra, gilt edges, ys. 6d. ;

Cases for binding Volumes, 2s. each.

Belgravia Holiday Number,

Written by the well-known Authors who have been so long associated
with the Magazine, v/ill be published as usual in July.

Demy 8vo, Illustrated, uniform in size for binding.

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks:

Academy Notes, 1875. With 40 Illustrations, is.

Academy Notes, 1876. With 107 Illustrations. 15.

Academy Notes, 1877. With 143 Illustrations, is.

Academy Notes, 1878. With 150 Illustrations, is.

Academy Notes, 1879. With 146 Illustrations, is.

Academy Notes, 1880. With 126 Illustrations, is.

Academy Notes, 1881. With 128 Illustrations, is.

Academy Notes, 1882. With 130 Illustrations. is.

Academy Notes. 1883. With Illustrations, is. [Preparing

Grosvenor Notes, 1878. With 68 Illustrations, is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1879. With 60 Illustrations, is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1880. With 56 Illustrations, is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1881. With 74 Illustrations, is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1882. With 74 Illustrations, is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1883. With Illustrations, is. [Preparing.

Pictures at the Paris Exhibition, 1878. 80 Illustrations, is.

Pictures at South Kensington. With 70 Illustrations, is.

The English Pictures at the National Gallery. 114 lusts. is.

The O.d Masters at the National Gallery. 128 Illusts. is. 6d.

Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete in One Volume, with nearly
000 Illustrations in Facsimile. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877-1882. A Complete Catalogue of Exhibitions
at the Grosvenor Gallery since the Commencement. With
upwards of 300 Illustrations. Demy 8vo, cloth I'm, 6s.

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue to the National Gallery.
With Notes by H. Blackburn, and 242 Illusts. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 3s,

UNIFORM WITH "ACADEMY NOTES."
Baton Notes, 1883. With 400 full-page Illustrations. Edited by

F. G. Dumas. (English Edition.) Demy 8vo, 3s.
The Art Annual. Edited by F. G. Dumas. With 250 full-page

Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1878. 117 Illustrations, is.

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1879. 125 Illustrations, is.

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1880. 114 Illustrations, is.

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1881. 104 Illustrations, is.

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1882. 114 Illustrations, is.

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1878. 95 Illusts. is.

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1879. 100 Illusts. is.

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1880. 120 Illusts. is.

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1881. 108 Illusts. is.

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1882. 102 Illusts. is.

Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1878. 112 Illusts. is.

Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1879. 100 Illusts. is.

"Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1880. 100 Illusts. is.

Royal Manchester Institution Notes, 1878. 88 Illustrations, is.

Society of Artists Notes. Birmingham, 1878. 95 Illusts. is.
Children of the Great City. By F. W. Lawson. is.

Folio, half-bound boards, India Proofs, 21$,

Blake (William) :

Etchings from his Works. By W. B. ScOTT. With descriptive Text.
In Illuminated Cover, crown 4to, 6s.

Birthday Flowers: Their Language and Legends.

By W. J. Gordon. lust. in Colours by Viola Boughton. [Shortly.

This stivtptuous and elegant Birthday Book is the first in which our floral
treasures have been laid under really effective contribution. It has been produced at
immense cost, and in it we have one of the most accurate and beautiful Masterpieces
of Chromo-lithography yet issued from the press. Withinits sixty-fov,r fully-coloured
pages, each lithographed in fourteen printing, we have a noble Series of lovely Bouquets,
depicting in all their wealth of grace and beauty the most famous of our field
and garden jewels ; as a different flower is taken for every day in the year, there
are no 'ever than three hundred attd sixty-six separate selections. The legends
and the sentiments ascribed to each of the chosen blossoms have formed the theme of
some fifteen hundred lines of Original Verse, and there is thus given one of the f idlest
Languages of Flowers " in existence, and the only one which is free from duplicates.
An unusual amount of thought and labour has been expended on the work, and the
publishers congratulate themselves that in a literary and artistic sense the result has
been fully commensurate thereto. Such a collection of flowers, so complete and compact,
has never before been offered. As a Book of Birthdays and Family Records it
xs unsurpassed. The addition of the scientific names to the minutely accurate delineations
of plants renders its pages invaluable to the botanist and every lover of leaf and
blooni. The legends which form the burden of its verse will delight the scholar and
archcEologist and all students of song and folk-lore ; while the copious floral meanings,
completer than in any ether 'language of flowers " yet available, will render it
the constant companion and most treasured gift of a much more numerous section of
the community — the whole world of Sweethearts of the English-speaking nations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Boccaccio's Cameron;

or, Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated into English, with an Introduction
by Thomas Wright, Esq., M.A., F.S.A. With Portrait,
and Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.

Bowers' (G.) Hunting Sketches :

Canters in Hampshire. By G. Bowers. I. Gallops from Gorse-borough.
II Scrambles with Scratch Packs. III. Studies with Stag
Hounds. Oblong 4to, half-bound boards, 21s.

Leaves from a Hunting Journal. By G. Bowers. Coloured in
facsimile of the originals. Oblong 4to, half-bound, 21s.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with numerous Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Brand's Observations on Popular Antiquities ,

chiefly Illustrating the Origin of our Vulgar Customs, Ceremonies, and
Superstitions. With the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis.

Brewster (Sir David), Works by:

More Worlds than One : The Creed of the Philosopher and the
Hope of the Christian. By Sir David Brewster. With Plates. Post
8vo, cloth extra, 45. 6d.

The Martyrs of Science : Lives of Galileo, Tycho Brahe, and
Kepler. By Sir David Brewster. With Portraits. Post 8v>, cloth
extra, 4s. td.

Bret Harte, Works by:

Bret Harte's Collected VvTorks. Arranged and Revised by the
Author. Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
Vol. I. Complete Poetical and Dramatic Works. With Steel Plate

Portrait, and an Introduction by the Author.
Vol. II. Earlier Papers-luck of Roaring Camp, and other Sketches

—Bohemian Papers — Spanish and American Legends.
Vol. III. Tales of the Argonauts — Eastern Sketches.
Vol. IV. Gabriel Convoy.
Vol. V. Stories— Condensed Novels, &c.

The Select Works of Bret Harte, in Prose and Poetry. With
Introductory Essay by J. M. Belle, Portrait of the Author, and 50 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Gabriel Convoy : A Novel. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

An Heiress of Red Dog, and other Stories. Post 8vo, illustrated

boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
The Twins of Table Mountain. Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, is. ;

crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
The Luck of Roaring Camp, and other Sketches. Post 8vo,

illustrated boards, ts.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. Fcap, Svo, picture cover, is. ; cloth

extra, 2S. 6d.
Flip. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 25. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6^.

Buchanan's (Robert) Works :

Ballads of Life, Love, and

Humour. With a Frontispiece by

Arthur Hughes. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 6s.
Selected Poems of Robert Buchanan.
With Frontispiece by Thos.

Daniel. Crown Svo, cloth extra,

6s.
Undertones. Croire Svo, cloth

extra, 6s.
London Poems. Crown Svo,

cloth extra, 6s.
The Book of Form. Crown Svo,

cloth extra, 6s.
White Rose and Red : A Love

Story. Crown Svo, cloth extra

Idols and Legends of Inver-burn.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
St. Abe and his Seven Wives :

A Tale of Salt Lake City. With a

Frontispiece by A. B. Houghton.

Crown Svo, cloth esJK? "i.
The Hybrid Isles : Wanderings

in the Land of Lome and the Outer

Hebrides. With Frontispiece by W.

Small. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Selections from the Prose

Writings of Robert Buchanan.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. [Shortly.

Robert Buchanan's Complete
Poetical Works. In One Volume.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

[sin preparation.

*»* See also Novels, pp. 19, 21, 22 and 25

Demy Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d,

Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy.

A New Edition, Complete, corrected and enriched by Translations of
the Classical Extracts.
•^» Also an Abridgment in "The Mayfair Library," under the title
Melancholy A anatomise'" post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Burton (Captain, Works by :

The Book of the Sword : Being a History of the Sword and its
Use in all Countries, Iron the Earliest Times. By Richard F Burton
Wither 400 Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 25s. fin preparation'

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal Narrative. By Richard
F. Burton and Varney Loveth Cameron. With Maps and Frontispiece.
Two Vols., crown Svo, dis.

THE STOTHARD BUNYAN.— Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt. 7s. 6d.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. ScOTT. With 17 beautiful Steel Plates by STOT-hard,
engraved by Goodwill ; and numerous Woodcuts.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Byron's Letters and Journals.

With Notices of his Life. By Thomas Moore. A Reprint of the
Original Edition, newly revised, with Twelve full-page Plates.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21s.

Cameron (Commander) and Captain Burton.

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal Narrative. By Richard
F. Burton and Varney Loveth Cameron. With Frontispiece and
Maps.

Demy Bvo, cloth extra, 14s.

Campbell.— White and Black :

Travels in the United States. By Sir George Campbell, M.P.

Carlyle (Thomas):

Thomas Carlyle : Letters and Recollections. By Concur D

Conway, M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.
On the Choice of Books. With a Life of the Author by R. H.
Shepherd. New and Revised Edition, post 8vo, cloth extra. Illustrated,
IS. 6d.
The Correspondence of Thomas Carlyle and Ralph Waldo
Emerson, 1834 to 1872. Edited by Charles Eliot Norton. With Portraits.
Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 24s.
These letters, extending over a period of nearly forty years, were, by the common
consent and direction of the illustrious writers, loiip since placed in Mr. Norton's
hands with the fullest powers for editing and publication. It is not too much to
claim that the correspondence forms the most valuable and entertaining work of
the kind ever issued.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Century (A) of Dishonour :

A Sketch of the United States Government's Dealings with some o
the Indian Tribes.

Large 4to, half-bound, profusely Illustrated, 28s.

Chatty and Jackson.— A Treatise on Wood

Engraving ; Historical and Practical. By William Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson. With an Additional Chapter by Henry G.
John ; and 450 fine Illustrations. Reprinted the last Revised Edition.

Chaucer :

Chaucer for Children : A Golden Key. By Mrs. H. R. Hawes.

With Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous Woodcuts by the Author.
New Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.
Chaucer lor Schools. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Demy 8vo, cloth
limp, 2S. 6d.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Coleman's Humorous Works :

Broad Grins"" My Nightgown and Slippers," and other Humorous
Works, Prose and Poetical, of George Coleman. With Life by G^
B. BucKSTONE, and Frontispiece by Hogarth.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2S. 6d,

Convalescent Cookery :

A Family Handbook. By Catherine Ryan.

*' Full of sound sense and useful hints." — Saturday Review,

Conway (Concur D.), Works by

Demonology and Devil-Lore. Two Vols., royal 8vo, with 6s

Illustrations, 28s.
A Necklace of Stories. Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy.

Square 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

The Wandering Jew. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Thomas Carlyle : Letters and Recollections. With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Cook (Button), Works by :

Hours with the Players. With a Steel Plate Frontispiece. New

and Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Nights at the Play: A View of the English Stage. Two Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21s.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Copyright.— A Handbook of English and

Foreign Copyright in Literary and Dramatic Works. By Sidney
Ferrol, of the Middle Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-law.
•' Till the time arrives when copyright shall be so simple and so uniform that
it can be generally understood and enjoyed, such a handbook as this will prove of
great value. It is correct as well as concise, and gives just the kind and quantity
of information desired by persons who are ignorant of the subject, and turn to it
for information and guidance"— ArHESMUti.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Cornwall.— Popular Romances of the West

of England ; or, The Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions of Old
Cornwall. Collected and Edited by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New
and Revised Edition, with Additions, and Two Steel-plate Illustrations
by George Cruikshank.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13 Portraits, 7s. 6d.

Creasy's Memoirs of Eminent Etonians ;

With Notices of the Early History of Eton College. By Sir Edward
Creasy, Author of " The Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World,"

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Crimes and Punishments.

Including a New Translation of Beccaria's " De Delitti e delle Pen."
By James Anson Farmer.

Cruikshank, George:

The Comic Almanac. Complete in Two Series: The First

from 1835 to 1843 ; the Second from 1844 to 1853. A Gathering of the
Best Humour of Thackeray, Hood, Mathew, Albert Smith,
A Beckett, Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000 Woodcuts and Steel
Engravings by Cruikshank, Line, Handel's, &c. Crown 8vo, cloth
gilt, two very thick volumes, 7s. 6d, each.
The Life of George Cruikshank. B7 Blanchard Ferrol,

Author of "The Life of Napoleon Hi," &c. With numerous Illustrations
and a List of his Works. Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 24s.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Russians.— Handbook of Heraldry,

with Instructions for Tracing Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient
MSS., &c. By John E. Russians. Entirely New and Revised
Edition. Illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts and Coloured Plates.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6i,

Covenant.— What shall my Son be P

Hints for Parents on the Choice of a Profession or Trade for their
Sons. By Francis Covenant, M.A.

New and Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 7s. 6d.

Dora. — Memories of our Great Towns.

With Anecdotic Gleanings concerning their Worthies and their
Oddities. By Dr. John Dora, F.S.A. With 38 Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, half-bound, 12s. 6d, i

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a comprehensive Guide to the Plays, Playwrights, Players,
and Playhouses of the United Kingdom and America, from the
Earliest to the Present Times. By W. Davenport Adams. (Uniform
with Brewer's " Reader's Handbook") lln preparation.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 65.

Dyer.— The Folk-Lore of Plants.

By T. F. Thiselton Dyer, M.A. \^In preparation.

Among the subjects treated of will be the following :— 1. Primitive and Savage
Notions respecting Plants — 2. Plant-Worship — 3. Plant-Life — 4. Lightning
Plants — 5. Legendary Origin of Plants — 6. Mystic Plants— 7. Plant Nomenclature—
8. Ceremonial Use of Plants — 9. The Doctrine of Signatures — 10. Plants
in Folk-Medicine — 11. Plants in Folk-Tales— 12. Plants in Demonology and
Witchcraft 13. Wishing-Plants— 14. Sacred Plants— 15. Luck-Plants.

Crown 8vo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume.

Early English Poets.

Edited, with Introductions and Annotations, by Rev. A. B. Groat.

1, Fletcher's (Gules, Bed.) Complete

Poems, One Vol.

2. Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works, Two Vols.

3. Herrick's (Robert) Complete
Collected Poems. Three Vols.

4. Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works. Three Vote.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 6s.

Emanuel.— On Diamonds and Precious

Stones : their History, Value, and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With
numerous Illustrations, Tinted and Plain.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Englishman's House, The :

A Practical Guide to all interested in Selecting or Building a House,
with full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c. By C. J. Richardson.
Third Edition. With nearly 600 Illustrations.

Ewald (Alex. Charles, F.S.A.), Works by :

stories from the State Papers. With an Autotype Facsimile.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

The Life and Times of Prince Charles Stuart, Count of Albany,
commonly called the Young Pretender. From the State Papers and
other Sources. New and Cheaper Edition, with a Portrait, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. [Shortly.

Cro\\'n 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.

Fairholt. — Tobacco :

Its History and Associations ; with an Account of the Plant and its
Manufacture, and its Modes of Use in all Ages and Countries. By
F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. With Coloured Frontispiece and upwards
of 100 Illustrations by the Author.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d,

Familiar Allusions :

A Handbook of Miscellaneous Information ; including the Names of
Celebrated Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country Seats, Ruins,
Churches, Ships, Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the like.
By William A. Wheeler, Author of " Noted Names of Fiction ; "
and Charles G. Wheeler.

Faraday (Michael), Works by:

The Chemical History of a Candle : Lectures delivered before
a Juvenile Audience at the Royal Institution. Edited by William
Crookes, F.C.S. Post 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations,
45. 6d.

On the Various Forces of Nature, and their Relations to each
other. Lectures delivered before a Juvenile Audience at the Royal
Institution. Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S. Post 8vo, cloth extra,
with numerous Illustrations, 4s. 6d.

New and Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Fitzgerald.— Recreations of a Literary Man ;

or. Does Writing Pay ? With Recollections of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's Working Life. By Percy Fitzgerald.


Gardening Books :

A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse : Practical Advice
to Amateur Gardeners as to the Management of the Flower, Fruit, and
Frame Garden. By George Glenny. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2S. 6d.

Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we Grow, and How we
Cook Them. By Tom Jerrold, Author of "The Garden that Paid the
Rent," &c. Post 8vo, cloth limp, zs. 6d.

Household Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. B'j Tom
and Jane Jerrold. Illustrated. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

The Garden that Paid the Rent. By Tom Jerrold. Fcap. 8vo,

illustrated cover, is.; cloth limp, is. 6d.

My Garden Wild, and What I Grew there. By FRANCiS
George Heath. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

One Shilling Monthly.

Gentleman's Magazine (The) for 1883.

The New Abelard," Robert Buchanan's New Serial Story, was
begun in the January Number of The Gentleman's Magazine.
This Number contained many other interesting Articles, the continuation
of Julian Hawthorne's Story "Dust," and a further
instalment of " Science Notes," by W. Mattieuu Williams.
F.R.A.S.

%* Now ready, the Volume for JuLY^o December, 1882, cloth extra,
price 8s. 6d.; and Cases for binding, price 25. each.

Gentleman's Annual (The).

Containing Complete Novels by R. E. Francillon, the Author of
Miss Molly," Fred. Boyle, and F. Bell. Demy Svo, illuminated
cover, IS. ^ ^

THE RUSKIN Gff/MM.^Square Svo, cl. ex., 6s. 6d. ', gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

German Popular Stories.

Collected by the Brothers Grimm, and Translated by Edgar Taylor.
Edited with an Introduction by John Ruskin. With 22 Illustrations
on Steel by George Cruikshank. Both Series Complete.
'• The illustrations of this volume . . . are of quite sterling and admirable
art, of a class precisely parallel in elevation to the character of the tales which
they illustrate ; and the original etchings, as I have before said in the Appendix to
my 'Elements of Drawing,' were unrivalled in masterfulness of touch since Rembrandt
[in some qualities of delineation, unrivalled even by him). . . . To make
somewhat enlarged copies of them, looking at them through a magnifying glass,
and never putting two lines where Cruikshank has put only one, would be an exercise
in decision and severe drawing which would leave afterwards little to be learnt
in schools'— Extract from Introduction by John Ruskin.

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Glenny. — A Year's Work in Garden and

Greenhouse: Practical Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to the Man ge-ment
of the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden. By George Glenny.
"A great deal of valuable information, conveyed in very simple language. The
amateur need not wish for a better guides — Leeds Mercury.

Crown Svo, cloth gilt and gilt edges, 7s. 6d,

Golden Treasury of Thought, The :

An Encyclopaedia of Quotations from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by Theodore Taylor.

Square imo (Tauchnitz size)

Golden Library, The :

Ballad History of England. By

W. C. Bennett.
Bayard Taylor's Diversions of

the Echo Club.
Byron's Don Juan.
Emerson's Letters and Social

Aims.

Godwin's (william) Lives of

the Necromancers.
Holmes's Autocrat of the

Breakfast Table. With an Introduction
by G. A. Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the

Breakfast Table.

Hoods Whims and Oddities.

Complete. With all the original
Illustrations.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of

a Traveller.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of

the Alhambra.
Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and

Occupations of Country Life.
Lamb's Essays of Elia. Both
Series Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays : A Tale
for a Chimney Corner, and other
Pieces. With Portrait, and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier.

cloth extra, 2s. per volume.
Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

arthur : The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round
Table. Edited by B. Montgomery
Ranking.
Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
Dad.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte-veuve.


St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia,

and The Indian Cottage. Edited,
with Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Shelley's Early Poems, and
Queen Mab, with Essay by Leigh

Hint.

Shelley's Later Poems : Lion
and Cythna, &c.

Shelley's Posthumous Poems,

the Shelley Papers, &c.
Shelley's Prose Works, including
A Refutation of Deism, Zastrozzi,
St. Irvine, &c.

White's Natural History of Sel-borne.

Edited, with Additions, by
Thomas Brown, F.L.S.

New and Cheaper Edition, demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Greeks and Romans, The Life of the,

Described from Antique Monuments. By Ernst Gqhl and W.

Boxer. Translated from the Third German Edition, and Edited by

Dr. F. Suffer. With 545 Illustrations.

Must find a place, not only upon the scholar's shelves, but in every well-chosen

library of art." — Daily News

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 4s. 6d.

Guyot.— The Earth and Manor.

Physical Geography in its relation to the History of Mankind.
By Arnold Guyot. With Additions by Professors Agassiz, Pierce,
and Gray; 12 Maps and Engravings on Steel, some Coloured, and
copious Index.

Crown 8vo, is. ; cloth, is. 6d.

Hair (The) : Its Treatment in Health, Weakness,
and Disease. Translated from the German of D r. J. PiNCUS.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon), Poems by :

Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth extra, 8s.
New Symbols Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Legends of the Morrow. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
The Serpent Play. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.

Half-hours with Foreign Novelists.

With Notices of their Lives and Writings. By Helen and Alice
ZiMMERN. A New Edition.

Medium 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Hall.— Sketches of Irish Character. By Mrs.

S. C. Hall. With numerous Illustrations on Steel and Wood by
Machine, Gilbert, Harvey, and G. Cruikshank.
"The Irish Sketches of this lady resemble Miss Milord's beautiful English

sketches in ' Our Village,' but they are far more vigorous and picturesque and

bright." — Blackwood's Magazine.

Haweis (Mrs), Works by

The Art of Dress. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Illustrated by the

Author. Small 8vo, illustrated cover, is. ; cloth limp, is. 6d.
A well-considered attempt to apply canons of good taste to the costumes

of ladies of our time Mrs. Haweis writes frankly and to the

point ; she does not mince matters, but boldly remonstrates with her own sex

on the follies they indulge in We may recommend the book to the

ladies whom it concerns'" — Athenaeum.

The Art of Beauty. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, gilt, gilt edges, with Coloured Frontispiece and nearly 100
Illustrations, los. 6d.

The Art of Decoration. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square 8vo,
handsomely bound and profusely Illustrated, los. 6d.

*** See also Chaucer, p. 6 of this Catalogue.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Haweis (Rev. H. R.).— American Humorists

Including Washington Irving, Oliver Wendell Holmes,
James Russell Lowell, Artemus Ward, Mark Twain, and
Bret Harte. By the Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5^.

Heath (F. G.)— My Garden Wild,

And What I Grew there. By Francis George Heath, Author of

The Fern World," &c.
If gardens of wild flowers do not begin at once to spring up over half the little
patches of back yard within fifty miles of London it will not be Mr. Heath's fault,
for a more exquisite picture of the felicity of horticulture has seldom been drawn for
us by so charming and graphic a word-painter as the writer of this pleasant little
volume'' — Grant Allen, in The Academy.

SPECIMENS OF MODERN POETS.— Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Heptalogia (The) ; or, The Seven against Sense.

A Cap with Seven Bells.
The merits of the book cannot be fairly estimated by means of a few extracts;
should be read at length to be appreciated properly, and in our opinion its
merits entitle it to be very widely read indeed." — St. James's Gazette.

Cr.Svo, bound in parchment, 8s. ; Large-Paper copies (only 50 printed), 15s.

Herbert.— The Poems of Lord Herbert of

Carbury. Edited, with an Introduction, by J. Wharton Collins.

Crown Svo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2s. 6d.

Holmes.— The Science of Voice Production

and Voice Preservation : A Popular Manual for the Use of Speakers
and Singers. By Gordon Holmes, M.D.
The advice the author gives, coming as it does from one having authority, is
most valuable"— 'Nature.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6^.

Hood's (Thomas) Choice Works,

In Prose and Verse. Including the Cream of the Comic Annuals.
With Life of the Author, Portrait, and Two Hundred Illustrations.

Square crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 65.

Hood's (Tom) From Nowhere to th North

Pole : A Noah's Archaeological Narrative. With 25 Illustrations by
W. Brandon and E. C. Barnes.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d. ,

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous Works,

including his Ludicrous Adventures, Bons-mots, Puns and Hoaxes.
With a new Life of the Author, Portraits, Facsimiles and Illustrations.

Tenth Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s.

Horne. — Orion :

An Epic Poem, in Three Books. By Richard Hengist Horne.
With Photographic Portrait from a Medallion by Summers.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Howell.— Conflicts of Capital and Labour

Historically and Economically considered. Being a History and'
Review of the Trade Unions of Great Britain, showing their Origin,
Progress, Constitution, and Objects, in their Political, Social, Economical,
and Industrial Aspects. By George Howell.
This book is an attempt, and on the whole a successful attempt, to place the
work of trade unions in the past, and their objects in the future, fairly before the
public from the working man's point of view." — Pall Mall Gazette.

Demy Svo, cloth extra, 12s. 6d.

Hueflfer.— The Troubadours :

A History of Provencal Life and Literature in the Middle Ages. By
Francis Suffer.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Ireland under the Land Act :

Letters to the Standard during the Crisis. Containing the most
recent Information about the State of the Country, the Popular
Leaders, the League, the Working of the Sub-Commissions, &c.
With Leading Cases under the Act, giving the Evidence in full ;
Judicial Dicta, &c. By E. Cant-Wall.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Janvier.— Practical Keramics for Students.

By Catherine A. Janvier.
Will be found a useful handbook by those who wish to try the manufacture or
decoration of pottery, and may be studied by all who desire to know something of
the art." — Morning Post.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Jefferies. — Nature near London.

By Richard Jefferies, Author of " The Gamekeeper at Home.'

[In the press.

A New Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 7s. 6d.

Jennings.— The Rosicrucians :

Their Rites and Mysteries. With Chapters on the Ancient Fire and
Serpent Worshippers. By Hargrave Jennings. With Five full-page
Plates and upwards of 300 Illustrations.

Jerrold (Tom), Works by :

Tile Garden that Paid the Rent. By To:\i Jerrold. Fcap. 8vo,

illustrated cover, is. ; cloth limp, is. 6rf
Household Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. By Tom and

Jane Jerrold. Illustrated. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants we Grow, and How we Cook

Them. By Tom Jerrold. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Jones (William, P.S.A.), Works by

Finger-Ring Lore : Historical, Legendary, and Anecdotal. With
over 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. bd.

Credulity, Past and Present : including the Sea and Seamen,
Miners, Talismans, Word and Letter Divination, Exorcising and
Blessing of Animals, Birds, Eggs, Luck, &c. With an Etched Frontispiece.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Crowns and Coronations : A History of Regalia in all Times and
Countries. With about 150 Illustrations, many full-page. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, ys. 6d. [In preparation.

Two Vols. 8vo, with 52 Illustrations and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 14s.

Josephus, The Complete Works of.

Translated by Whiston. Containing both " The Antiquities of the
Jews " and " The Wars of the Jews."

Small 8vo, cloth, full gilt, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 6s.

Kavanagh.— The Pearl Fountain,

And other Fairy Stories. By Bridget and JULIA Kavanagh.
With Thirty Illustrations by J. Moor Smith.

Crown 8vo, illustrated boards, with numerous Plates, 2s. 6d.

Lace (Old Point), and How to Copy and

Imitate it By Daisy Warehouse Hawkins. With 17 Illustrations
by the Author.

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c. :

The Thousand am One Nights : Commonly called, in England,
"The Arabian Nights' Entertainments." A New Translation from
the Arabic, with copious Notes, by Edward William Lane. Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on Wood, from Original Designs by Wm.
Harvey. A New Edition, from a Copy annotated by the Translator,
edited by his Nephew, Edward Stanley Poole. With a Preface by
Stanley Lane Poole. Three Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d each.

Arabian Society in the Middle Ages : Studies from " The Thousand
and One Nights." By Edward Wm. Lane, Author of " The Modern
Egyptians," &c. Edited by Stanley Lane-Poole. Cr.Svo.eloth extra, 6s.

i

Lamb (Charles) :

Mary and Charles Lamb : Their Poems, Letters, and Remains.
With Reminiscences and Notes by '^V. Carew Hazlitt. With Hancock's
Portrait of the Essayist, Facsimiles of the Title-pages of the rare
First Editions of Lamb's and Coleridge's Works, and numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, los. 6rf.
Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose and Verse, reprinted from the
Original Editions, with many Pieces hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H. Shepherd. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of a Page of the " Essay on Roast Pig." Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.
A complete edition of Lamb's writings, in prose and verse, has long been
wanted, and is now supplied. The editor appears to have taken great pains to
bring together Lamb's scattered contributions, and his collection contains a
number of pieces which are now reproduced for the first time since their original
appearance in various old periodicals"— Saturday Review.

Poetry for Children, and Prince Doris. By Charles Lamb.
Carefully Reprinted from unique copies. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.
The quaint and delightful little book, over the recovery of which all the
hearts of his lovers are yet warm with rejoicing." — A. C. Swinburne.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lares and Penates;

Or, The Background of Life. By Florence Caddy.
The whole book is well worth reading, for it is full of practical suggestions.
We hope nobody will be deterred from taking up a book which teaches a good deal
about sweetening poor lives as well as giving grace to wealthy ones." — Graphic.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d,

"life in London ;

or, The History of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian Tom. With the
whole of Cruikshank's Illustrations, in Colours, after the Originals.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lights on the Way :

Some Tales within a Tale. By the late J H. ALEXANDER, Bea.
Edited, with an Explanatory Note, by H. A. Page, Author of
"Thoreau: A Study."

Longfellow :

Longfellow's Complete Prose 'Works. Including " Outre Mer,"
Hyperion," " Kavanagh,'' " The Poets and Poetry of Europe," and
Driftwood." With Portrait and Illustrations by Valentine Bromley.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully Reprinted from the
Original Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Lunatic Asylum, My Experiences in a.

By A Sane Patient.

The story is clever and interesting, sad beyond measure though the subject
be. There is no personal bitterness, and no violence or auger. Whatever may
have been the evidence for our author's madness when he was consigned to an
asylum, nothing can be clearer than his sanity when he wrote this book; it is
bright, cairn, and to the ^ot;»(."— Spectator.

Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page Plates, cloth boards, 185.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian Verse by Robert French Duff.

McCarthy (Justin, M.p), Works by:

History of Our Own Times, from the Accession of Queen Victoria
to the General Election of 1880. Four Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra,
Is. each.— Also a Popular Edition, in Four Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 6s. each.

A Child's History of Our Own Times. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
4s. 6d. [In preparation.

History of the Four Georges. Four Vols., demy 8vo, cloth
extra, 12s. each. [In preparation.

*^* For Mr, McCarthy's Novels, see pp. 21, 24.

McCarthy (Justin H.), Works by:

An Outline of the History of Ireland, from the Earliest Times

to the Present Day. Crown 8vo, is. ; cloth, is. 6d.
Serapis, and other Poems. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 65.

MacDonald (George, LL.D.), Works by :

The Princess and Curdle. With 11 Illustrations by James Allen,

Small crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.
Gutta-Percha Willie, the Working Genius. With 9 Illustrations

by Arthur Hughes. Square 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

*^* For George Macdonald's Novels, see pp. 22, 25.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Machine Portrait-Gallery (The) of Illustrious

Literary Characters ; with Memoirs, Biographical, Critical, Bibliographical,
and Anecdotal, illustrative of the Literature of the former
half of the Present Century. By WiLLiAM Bates, Bea. With 85
Portraits printed on an India Tint. [In the press.

'Macquoid (Mrs), Works by :

In the Ardennes. With 50 fine Illustrations by Thomas R.

Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth extra, los. 6d.
Pictures and Legends from Normandy and Brittany. With

numerous Illustrations by Thomas R. Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth gilt,

los. 6d.

Through Normandy. With 90 Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid.
Square Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Through Brittany. With numerous Illustrations by T. R, Mac-quoit.
Sq. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

About Yorkshire, With about 70 Illustrations by Thomas R.
Macquoid, Engraved by Swain. Square Svo, cloth extra, los. 6d.

[/n preparation.

Handsomely printed in facsimile, price 5s.

Magna Charta,

An exact Facsimile of the Original Document in the British Museum,
printed on fine plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2 feet wide, with the
Arms and Seals emblazoned in Gold and Colours.

Mallock (W.H.), Works by:

Is Life Worth Living P Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

The New Republic ; or, Culture, Faith, and Philosophy in an

English Country House. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6rf.
The New Paul and Virginia ; or, Positivism on an Island. Post

8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
Poems. Small 4to, bound in parchment, 8s.
A Romance of the Nineteenth Century. Second Edition, with

a Preface. Two Vols., crown 8vo, 21s.

Mark Twain, Works by:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain. Revised and Corrected
throughout by the Author. With Life, Portrait, and numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. With 100 Illustrations. Small
8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d. Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2s.

An Idle Excursion, and other Sketches. Post 8vo, illustrated

boards, 2s.

The Prince and the Pauper. With nearly 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

The Innocents Abroad; or. The New Pilgrim's Progress:
Being some Account of the Steamship " Quaker City's " Pleasure Excursion
to Europe and the Holy Land. With 234 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Cheap Edition, post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Stolen White Elephant, &c. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Life on the Mississippi. With about 300 Original Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, ys. 6d. [In preparation.

A Tramp Abroad. With 314 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, ys. 6d.
The fun and tenderness of the conception, of which no living man hut
Mark Twain is capable, its grace and fantasy and slyness, the wonderful

feeling for animals that is manifest in every line, make of all this episode oj

Jim Baker and his jays.^ a piece of work that is not only delightful as mere

leading, but also of a high degree of merit as literature. . . . The book is

full of good things, and contains passages and episodes that are equal to the

funniest of those that have gone before"— Athenaeum.

Small 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 25. 6d.

Miller.— Physiology for the Young;

Or, The House of Life : Human Physiology, with its application to
the Preservation of Health. For use in Classes and Popular Reading.
With numerous Illustrations. By Mrs. F. Fenwick Miller,
"An admirable introduction to a subject which all who value health and enjoy
life should have at their fingers' ends"— Echo.

Milton (J. L.), Works by :

The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise Set of Rules for the
Management of the Skin; with Directions for Diet, Wines, Soaps, Baths
&c. Small 8vo, is. cloth extra, is. 6d. '

The Bath in Diseases of the Skin. Small Svo, is. ; cloth extra.
is.td.

The Laws of Life, and their Relation to Diseases of the Skin,
Snail Svo, IS. ; cloth extra, is. 6d,

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Post 8vo, cloth limp

Mayfair Library, The

A Journey Round My Room.

By Xavier de Maitre. translated

by Henry Attwell.
Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by

W. Davenport Adams.
Quips and Quiddities. Selected

by W. Davenport Adams.
The Agony Column of " The

Times," from 1800 to 1870. Edited,

with an Introductions Alice Clay.

Balzac's " Comedies Humaine "

and its Author. With Translations
by H. H. Walker.

Melancholy Anatomise : A
Popular Abridgment of "Burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy."

Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By

Brilliant-Savarin.

The Speeches of Charles

Dickens.
Literary Frivolities, Fancies,

Follies, and Frolics. W. T. Dobson.

Poetical Ingenuities andEccen-
atrocities. Selected and Edited by
W. T. Dobson.

The Cupboard Papers. By
Fin-Bec.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
First Series. Containing:
The Wicked World — Pygmalion and
Galatea— Charity — The Princess —
The Palace of Truth— Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing:
Broken Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts
— Gretchen — Dan'l Bruce —
Tom Cobb— H. Mss. Pinafore— The
Sorcerer — The Pirates of Penzance.

Animals and their Masters.

By Sir Arthur Helps.
Curiosities of Criticism. By

Henry J. Jennings.

2S. 6d. per volume.

The Autocrat of the Bi«ak-

fast-Table. ByO. WendellHolmes.
Illustrated by J. Gordon Thomson.

Pencil and Palette. By Robert

Kempt.

Clerical Anecdotes. By Jacob

Haywood.

Forensic Anecdotes ; or. Humour
and Curiosities of the Law and
Men of Law. By Jacob Haywood.

Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob
Haywood.

Carols of Cockayne. By Henry
S. Leigh.

Jeux dee sprit. Edited by ditto.

.The True History of Joshua

Davidson. By E. Lynn Linton.
Witch Stories. By E. L. Linton.
Pastimes and Players. By

Robert Macgregor.
The New Paul and Virginia.

By W. H. Mallock.

The New Republic. By ditto.

Muses of Mayfair, Edited by
H. Cholmondeley-Pennell.

Thoreau : His Life and Aims
By H. A. Page.

Puck on Pegasus. Dy H.
Cholmondeley-Pennell.

Juliana. By the Hon. Hugh
Rowley.

More Juliana. By ditto.

The Philosophy of Handwriting.
Don Felix de Salamanca.

By Stream and Sea. By William
Senior.

Old Stories Re-told. By Walter
Thornbury.

Leaves from a Naturalist's
Note-Book. ByDr.ANPREwWiLSON.

Large 4to, bound in buckram, 21s.

MoncriefF. — The Abdication; or, Time Tries All.

An Historical Drama. By W. D. Scott-Moncrieff. With Seven
Etchings by John Petrie, R.A., W. Q. Richardson, R.A., J. Mac
Whiter, A.R.A., Colin Hunter, R. Macbeth and Tom Graham.

Square 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, js.od.

North Italian Folk.

By Mrs. Commons Carr. Illustrated by Randolph Caldecott.
A delightful book, of a kind which is far too rare. If anyone wants to really
know the North Italian folk, we can honestly advise htm to omit tht journey, an
read Mrs. Carr's pages instead. , . Description with Mrs. Carr is a real gift ,
It is rarely that a book is so happily iZ/ws^ra^ed."— Contemporary Review.

New Novels :

Wand. ■ By OuiDA, 3 vols., crown 8vo. shortly.

PORT SALVATION; or, The Evangelist. ByALPHONSE Daudet.

Translated by C. Harry Meltzer. 2 vols., post 8vo, 12s. [Shortly

THE HANDS OF JUSTICE. By F. W. Robinson. 3 vols.
WOMEN ARE STRANGE, &c. By F. W. Robinson. 3 vols.
THE CAPTAINS' ROOM, &c. By Walter Besant, Author

of " All Sorts and Conditions of Men," &c. 3 vols.
OF HIGH DEGREE. By Charles Gibbon, Author of " Robin

Gray," " The Golden Shaft," &c. 3 vols.
THE GOLDEN SHAFT. By Charles Gibbon. 3 vols.
Self-condemned. By Mrs. Alfred Hunt. 3 vols.
KIT : A Memory. By James Payn. 3 vols.
VAL STRANGE. By D. Christie Murray. 3 vols.
HEARTS. By David Christie Murray. 3 vols. [May.

REGIMENTAL LEGENDS. By J. S. Winter. 3 vols.
GIDEON FLEYCE. By Henry W. Lucy. 3 vols.
DUST: A Story. By Julian Hawthorne, Author of "Garth,"

Sebastian Strome," &c. 3 vols.
HEART AND SCIENCE : A Story of the Present Day. By

WiLKiE Collins. 3 vols. [Maw.

ANEW COLLECTION of STORIES by CHARLES READE

is now in preparation, in 3 vols,
KEPT IN THE DARK. By Anthony Trollope. 2 vols., 12s.
MR. SCARBOROUGH'S FAMILY. By Anthony Trollope.

3 vols. [April.

Anna WATER By Robert Buchanan, 3 vols. [May.

BEHIND A BRASS KNOCKER: Some Grim Realities in

Picture and Prose. By Fred. Barnard and C. H. Ross. Demy Svo,

cloth extra, with 30 full-page Drawings, los. ci.

Post Svo, cloth extra. Illustrated, 5s.

Number Nip (Stones about),

The Spirit of the Giant Mountains. Retold for Children by Walter
Grahame. With Illustrations by J. Moor Smith.

O'Shaughnessy (Arthur), Works by :

Songs of a Worker, Fcap. Svo, cloth extra, 75. 6d.
Music and Moonlight. Fcap. Svo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.
Lays of France. Crown Svo, cloth extra, los. 6d.

Crown Svo, red cloth extra, 5s. each.

Ouida's Novels.— Library Edition.

Held in Bondage. Pascal.

Stratford.
Chances.

Under Two Flags.
Italia.

Cecil Castlemaine's Gage. ] Friendship.
Tricotrin. i Moths.

Puck. Pipistrello.

Folle Farine. A Village Commune.

A Dog of Flanders. In Maremma.

•»• Also a Cheap Edition of ail but the last, post Svo, illustrated boards, 2S. each.
BIMBI : Stories for Children. By OuiDA. Square Svo, cloth gilt,

cinnamon edges, 7s. 6d.
WISDOM, POETRY, AND PATHOS, Selected from the Works

of OuiDA. By F. S. Morris. Small cr. Svo , cl. extra, 5s. [/» the press

Two Little Wooden Shoes.

Signa.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Vignette Portraits, price 6s. per Vol,

Old Dramatists, The ;

Ben Jonson's Works,

With Notes Critical and Explanatory,
and a Biographical Memoir by William
GiFFORD. Edited by Colonel
Cunningham. Three Vols.

Chapman's Works.
Complete in Three Vols. Vol. I. contains
the Plays complete, including
the doubtful ones; Vol. II. the
Poems and Minor Translations, with
an Introductory Essay by Algerian

Charles Swinburne; Vol. III. the
Translations of the Iliad and
Odyssey.
Marlowe's Works.

Including his Translations. Edited,
with Notes and Introduction, ty Col.
Cunningham. One Vol.
Massinger's Plays.
From the Text of William Gifford.
Edited by Col. Cunningham. One
Vol.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, is. 6d.

Parliamentary Procedure, A Popular Handbook

of. By Henry W. Lucy.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 65

Payn.—Some Private Views :

Being Essays contributed to The Nineteenth Century and to Th
Times. By James Payn, Author of " Lost Sir Massingberd," &c.

*»** For Mr, Payn's Novels, see pp. 22, 24, 25.

Two Vols. 8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, los. 6d,

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious Men.

Translated from the Greek, with Notes Critical and Historical, and a
Life of Plutarch, by John and William Langhorne.

Proctor (Richard A.), Works by:

Flowers of the Sky, With 55 Illustrations. Small crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 45. 6d.
Easy star Lessons. With Star Maps for Every Night in the Year,

Drawings of the Constellations, &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Familiar Science Studies. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6i.
Myths and Marvels of Astronomy. Crown Svo, cloth extra, unpleasant
Ways in Science. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Rough Ways made Smooth : A Series of Familiar Essays on

Scientific Subjects. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Our Place among Infinities: A Series of Essays contrasting our

Little Abode in Space and Time with the Infinities Around us. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Tie Expanse of Heaven t A Series of Essays on the Wonders

of the Firmament. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6"!.
Saturn and its System. New and Revised Edition, with 13 Steel

Plates, Demy Svo, cloth extra, los. 6d.
The Great Pyramid : Observatory, Tomb, and Temple, With Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Mysteries of Time and Space. With Illustrations. Crown Svo,

cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Wages and Wants of Science Workers. Crown Svo, is. 6d.

Mr. Procter, of all writers oj our time, best conforms to Matthew A mold 's con
mention of a man of culture, in that he strives to humanise knowledge and divest it
of whatever is harsh, crude, or technical, and so makes it a source of happiness and
brightness for ow"— Westminster Review,



Library Editions, many Illustrated, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3a. 6d. each.

Piccadilly Novels, The.

Popular ^tQxit^ fig

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.

Maid, Wife, or Widow ?

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE,

Ready-money Mortify.

My Lite Girl.

Time Case of Mr. Craft.

This Son of Vulcan.

With Harp and Crown.

The Golden Butterfly.

By Celia's Arbour.

The Monks of Helena.

'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.

The Seamy Side.

The Ten Years' Tenant,

The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN,

A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.

BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever.
Juliet's Guardian.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.
Antonio. | Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
The Woman in White,
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs ?
The New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the Lady,
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Black Robe.

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS,
Felicia.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
Archie Lovell.

BY R. E. Francisco.

Olympia. | Queen Cophetua.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.

The Capet Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray.
For Lack of Gold.
In Love and War.
What wil the World Say P
For the King.
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the Meadow.
In Pastures Green.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem.

BY THOMAS HARDY.

Under the Greenwood Tree.
BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE,
Garth.

Juice Question.
Sebastian Strome.

BY MRS ALFRED HUNT,
Thomicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.

BY JEAN Angelo,
Fated to be Free.

BY HENRY JAMES, Jun.
Confidence.

BY Harriet JAY.

The Queen of Connaught.
The Dark Colleen.

BY HENRY KINGSLEY,
Number Seventeen.
Oakshott Castle.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia KembaU.
Atonement of Learn Duncan.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread,
The Rebel of the Family.
My Love I "

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, mj*.
The Watergate Neighbours,
My Enemy's Daughter.
Linley Rochford.
A Fair Saxon.
Dear Lady Disdain,
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a Season,

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels — continued,
BY KATHARINE S. MACgUOID.
Lost Rose. I The Evil Eye.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame !
Written in Fire.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY,
A Life's Atonement.
Joseph's Coat.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY JAMES Pain.
Lost Sir Massingberd.
The Best of Husbands.
Fallen Fortunes. | Halves.
Walter's Word
What He Cost Her.
Less Black than We're Painted
Proxy. I Under One Roof.
High Spirits. | Carlton's Year.
A Confidential Agent.
From Exile.

BY CHARLES READE, D.C.L.
It is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash. | Peg Washington.
Christie Johnston.
Griffith Gaunt.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.

By Charles Rzkde.— continued.
Foul Play. | A Simpleton.
The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
The Autobiography of a Thief.
Put Yourself in His Place.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir.
A Woman-hater. | Reading.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.

Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman.
One Against the World.
The Lion in the Path.
The Two Dreamers.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.

Proud Maisie. | Cressida.
The Violin-Player.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPS.

The Way we Live Now.
The American Senator.

BY T. A. TROLLOPS.

Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY SARAH Tatler.

What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.

BY J. S. WINTER.
Cavalry Life.

NEW VOLUMES OF THE PICCADILLY NOVELS IN THE PRESS.

All Sorts and Conditions of I

Men. By Walter Besant. Illustrated
by Fred. Barnard.
The Shadow of the Sword. By
Robert Buchanan.

The Martyrdom of Madeline,

By Robert Buchanan.
Love Me for Ever. By Robert

Buchanan. Front, by P. Macnab.

Sweet Anne Page. By Mortimer
Collins.

Transmigration. By M. Collins.

Blacksmith and Scholar. By
Mortimer and Frances Collins.

From Midnight to Midnight. By
Mortimer Collins.

The Village Comedy. By Mortimer
and Frances Collins.

You Play me False. By Mortimer
and Frances Collins.

Paul Foster's Daughter. By
Button Cook.

Hearts of Gold. ByWM. Cycles.

Dolores. By James L. Derwent.

One by One. R. E. Francillon.

The Braes of Yarrow. By

Charles Gibbon.
Prince Barons Wife. By Julian

Hawthorne.
Ivan de Iron. By Sir A. Helps.
Paul Faber, Sin'geon. By Geo.

MacDonald, LL.D. With a Frontispiece
by J. E. Millais, R.A.

Thomas Wingfold, Curate. By
George MacDonald, LL.D. With
a Frontispiece by C. J. Staniland.

Coals of Fire. By D Christie
Murray. lustily Arthur Hopkins,
G. L. Seymour, and D. T. White.

A Grape from a Thorn. By
James Payn. Illust. by W. Small.

For Cash Only. By James Payn.

Valentine. By E. C. Price.

The Prince of Wales's Garden-party.

By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

By T. W. Speight.
Frau Frohmann. By Anthony

Trollope:.

Marion Fay. By A. Trollope.



Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Popular Novels, Cheap Editions of.

[WilkieCollins's Novels and Besant and Rice's Novels may also be had

in cloth limp at zs. 6d. See, too, the Picc\dii.i.y NovEVS,for Library Editions,'}

BY Edmund ABOUT,

The Fellah.

BY HAMILTON AIDE.
Confidences.
Carr of Carrion.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.

Maid, Wife, or Widow P

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.

Ready-Money Mortify.

With Harp and Crown.

This Son of Vulcan.

My Little Girl.

The Case of Mr. Craft.

The Golden Butterfly.

By Celia's Arbour.

The Monks of Helena.

'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.

The Seamy Side.

The Ten Years' Tenant.

BY Shelley BEAUCHAMP.
Grantly Grange

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.

Camp Notes. | Savage Life.

BY Bred HARTE.

An Heiress of Red Dog.
The Luck of Roaring Camp.
Gabriel Convoy. | FUp.

BY MRS. BURNETT.
Surly Tim.

BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever.
Juliet's Guardian.

BY MACLAREN COBBAN.

The Cure of Souls.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS,
The Bar Sinister.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.
Antonio. | Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
The Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
The Woman in White,
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs. P
The New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the Lady.

By WiLKiE Collins— COM*.
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel,
Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.

BY Mutton COOK.
Leo.

BY MRS. finis Edwards
A Point of Honour.
Archie Lovell,

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS,
Felicia.

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.
Roxy.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.

Polly. I Bella Donna.

Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Seventy-five Brooke Street.
BY ALBANY DE FONBLANQUB
Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco.

Olympia. | Queen Cophetua.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Capet Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray.
For Lack of Gold.
What will the World Say
In Honour Bound.
The Dead He-rt.
In Love and War.
For the King
Queen of the Meadow.
In Pastures Green.

BY yates GREENWOOD.

Dick Temple.

BY ANDREW HALLWAY.
E very-day Papers.

BY LADY DUFFUS HARDY.
Paul Winter's Sacrifice.
BY THOMAS HARDY.

Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HA Thorn.

Garth. | Ellice Question.

BY TOM HOOD.
A Golden Heart.

BY VICTOR HUGO.

The Hunchback of Notre Dame,

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Popular Novels — continued,

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT,

Thomicroft's Model.

BY JEAN Angelo.

Fated to be Free.

BY HENRY JAMES, Jun,

Confidence.

BY Harriet JAY.

The Queen of Connaught.
The Dark Colleen.

BY HENRY Kingsley
Number Seventeen.
Oakshott Castle.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord?
'With a Silken Thread.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.
The Watergate Neighbours.
Dear Lady Disdain.
My Enemy's Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.
Linley Rochford.
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.

BY AGNES Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID,

The Evil Eye. | Lost Rose.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT,
Open ! Sesame !
A Harvest of Wild Oath.
A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.
Written in Fire.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go.
Mr. Dorillion.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY,

A Life's Atonement.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT,

Whiteladies.

BY OUIDA,
Held in Bondage.
Stratford. | Candor.
Under Two Flags.
Italia.

Cecil Castlemaine's Gage.
Tricotria
Puck. 1 Folle Farine.

By OuiDA— con*.
A Dog of Flanders.

Two Little Wooden Shoes.

Signa.

La a Winter City.

Ariadne. I Friendship.

Moths. I Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.

BY JAMES Pain,

Lost Sir Massingberd,

A Perfect Treasure.

Bentinck's Tutor.

Murphy's Master.

A County Family.

At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.

Cecil's Tryst.

The Clyffards of Clyffe.

The Family Scapegrace.

The Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Gwendolen's Harvest.

Humorous Stories.

Like Father, Like Son,

A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath Him.

Mirk Abbey.

Not Wooed, but Won.

Two Hundred Pounds Reward,

The Best of Husbands.

Walter's Word. | Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.

What He Cost Her.

Less Black than we're Painted,

By Proxy.

Under One Roof.

High Spirits.

A Confidential Agent.

Carlton's Year.

BY EDGAR A. POE.

The Mystery of Marie Roget.

BY CHARLES READS, D.C.L.

It is Never Too Late to Mend.

Hard Cash.

Peg Washington.

Christie Johnston.

Griffith Gaunt.

The Double Marriage.

Love Me Little. Love Me Long.

Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.

The Course of True Love.

The Autobiography of a Thief

Put Yourself in his Place.

Popular Novels — continued,

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.

Her Mother's Darling.

BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SAL A.
Gaslight and Daylight.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.

Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman.
One Against the World.
The Lion in the Path.

BY ARTHUR Sketches,

A Match in the Dark.

BY WALTER THORNBURY.

Tales for the Marines.

BY T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPE.

Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way we Live Now.
The American Senator.
BY MARK TIVAIN.

A Pleasure Trip in Europe.

Tom Sawyer.

An Idle Excursion.

BY LADY WOOD.

Sabina.

BY EDMUND YATES.
Castaway.
Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.

ANONYMOUS.
Paul Ferrol.
Why P. Ferrol Killed his Wife.

NEW Two-shilling NOVELS IN THE PRESS.

The Chaplain of the Fleet. By

Besant and Rice.

The Shadow of the Sword. By

Robert Buchanan.

A Child of Nature. R. Buchanan.

Sweet Anne Page. By Mortimer
Collins.

Transmigration. By M. Collins.

Frances. By M. and F. Collins.

Sweet and Twenty. Ditto.

Blacksmith and Scholar. Ditto.

From Midnight to Midnight. By
Mortimer Collins.

A Fight with Fortune. Ditto.

The Village Comedy. By Mortimer
and Frances Collins.

You Play me False. Ditto.

The Black Robe. By Wilkie
Collins.

Paul Foster's Daughter. By

Dutton Cook.
Dolores. By James L. Derwent.
One by One. R. E. Francillon.
Dr. Austin's Guests. Gilbert.
The Wizard of the Mountain.

Sebastian Strome. By Julian

Hawthorne.
Ivan de Iron. By Sir A. Helps.
The Leaden Casket. By Mrs.

Alfred Hunt.
The Rebel of the Family. By

Mrs. Lynn Linton.
My Love ! " E. Lynn Linton.
Paul Faber, Surgeon. By Geo.

MacDonald, LL.D.
Thomas Wingfold, Curate. Do
New Republic. W. H. Mallock.
Phoebe's Fortunes. By Mrs.

Robert Reilly.
From Exile By James Payn.
Some Private Views. Ditto.
Valentine. By E. C. Price.
A Levantine Family. By Bayle

St. John.
The TWO Dreamers. Saunders
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

By T. W. Speight.
Cressida. By Bertha Thomas.
Proud Maisie. Bertha Thomas.
The Violin-Player. Ditto.
What She Came Through. By

Sarah Tatler.

By William Gilbert.
James Duke. By Wm. Gilbert.

Fcap. 8vo, picture covers, is. each.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret Harte.
The Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harte.
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By Julian Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavourneen. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's.'
Lindsay's Luck. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's
Trooping with Crows. By Mrs. Pirkis.
The Professor's Wife. By Leonard Graham.
A Double Bond. By Linda Villars.
Esther's Glove. By R. E. Francillon.
The Garden that Paid the Rent. By Tom Jerrold.

Planche (J. R.), Works by:

The Encyclopaedia of Costume ; or, A Dictionary of Dress — Regal,

Ecclesiastical, Civil, and Military— from the Earliest Period in England
to the Reign of George the Third, Including Notices of Contemporaneous
Fashions on the Continent, and a General History of the Costumes of the
Principal Countries of Europe. By J. R. Planche, Somerset Herald.
Two Vols, demy 4to, half morocco, profusely Illustrated with Coloured
and Plain Plates and Woodcuts, £y ys. The Volumes may also be had
separately (each complete in itself) at £s 13s. 6d. each : Vol. I. The
Dictionary. Vol. II. A General History of Costume in Europe.

The Pursuivant of Arms ; or. Heraldry Founded upon Facts. By
J. R. Planches. With Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879. By J. R. Planche. Edited,

with an Introduction, by his Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 6s. ^

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Portrait and Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Poe's Choice Prose and Poetical Works.

With Baudelaire's Essay on his Life and Writings.

Small Svo, cloth extra, with 130 Illustrations, 3s. Gd.

Prince of Argolis, The :

A Story of the Old Greek Fairy Ti me. By J. Moor Smith.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Rabelais' Works.

Faithfully Translated from the French, with variorum Notes, and
number vous characteristic Illustrations by Gustave Dore.

Crown Svo, cloth gilt, with numerous Illustrations, and a beautifully
executed Chart of the various Spectra, 7s. 6d.

Rambosson.— Popular Astronomy.

By J. Rambosson, Laureate of the Institute of France. Translated
by C. B. Pitman. Profusely Illustrated.

Entirely New Edition, Revised, crown Svo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Reader's Handbook (The) of Allusions, References,
Plots, and Stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer. Third Edition,
revised throughout, with a New Appendix, containing a Complete
English Bibliography.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 65.

Richardson. — A Ministry of Health, and

other Papers. By Benjamin Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Our Old Country Towns, By Alfred Rimmer. With over 5©
Illustrations by the Author. Square Svo, cloth extra, gilt, its. 6d.

Rambles Round Eton and Harrow. By Alfred Rimmer. With
50 Illustrations by the Author. Square 8vo, cloth gilt, los. 6d.

About England with Dickens. With Illustrations by Alfred
Rimmer and C. A. Vanderhoof. 3q. Svo, cl. gilt, los. 6d.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Robinson.— The Poets' Birds.

By Phil. Robinson, Author of " Noah's Ark," &c.

Handsomely printed, price 5s.

Roll of Battle Obey, The ;

or, A List of the Principal Warriors who came over from Normandy
with William the Conqueror, and Settled in this Country, a.d. 1066-7.
With the principal Arms emblazoned in Gold and Colours.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated, 4s. 6d. each.

Secret Out " Series, The :

The Psrrotechnist's Treasury;
or, Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With
numerous Illustrations.

The Art of Amusing :
A Collection of Graceful Arts, Games,
Tricks, Puzzles, and Charades. By
Frank Belle. 300 Illustrations.

Hanky-Panky :

Very Easy Tricks, Very Difficult
Tricks,White Magic.Sleight of Hand.
Edited by vv. H. Ckemer. 200 Illusts.

The Merry Circle :
A Qpok of New Intellectual Games

Magician's Own Book :

Performances with Cups and Balls,
Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from actual Experience. Edited by
W. H. Cramer. 200 Illustrations.
Magic No Mystery :

Tricks with Cards, Dice, Balls, &c.,
with fully descriptive Directions; the
Art of Secret Writing; Training of
Performing Animals, &c. Coloured
Frontispiece and many illustrations.
The Secret Out :
One Thousand Tricks with Cards,
and other Recreations ; with Entertaining
Experiments in Drawing-and

Amusements. By Clara Bel | room or " White Magic." By W. H.

LEW. .Many Illustrations. Cramer. 300 Engraving s.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 65.

Senior.— Travel and Trout in the Antipodes.

An Angler's Sketches in Tasmania and New Zealand. By William
Senior (" Red-Spinner "), Author of " By Stream and Sea."

Shakespeare :

The First Folio Shakespeare. — Mr. William Shakespeare's

Comedies, Histories, and Tragedies. Published according to the true

Original! Copies. London, Printed by Isaac Haggard and Ed. Blunt.

1623. — A Reproduction of the extremely rare original, in reduced facsimile

by a photographic process — ensuring the strictest accuracy in every

detail. Small Svo, half-roxburgh, ys. 6d.
The Vanstone Shakespeare. Beautifully printed in red

and black, in small but very clear type. With engraved facsimile oi

Droeshout's Portrait. Post Svo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.
Shakespeare for Children: Tales from Shakespeare. By

Charles and Mary Lamb. With numerous Illustrations, coloured and

plain, by J Mo-yr Smith. Crown 4to, cloth gilt, 6s.
The Handbook of Shakespeare Music. Being an Account of

350 Pieces of Music, set to Words taken from the Plays and Poems of

Shakespeare, the compositions ranging from the Elizabethan Age to the

Present Time. By Alfred Rosse. 4to, half-roxburgh, ys.
A Study of Shakespeare. By Algerian Charles Swinburne.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 8s.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page Tinted Illustrations, 7.'?. 6d.

Sheridan's Complete Works,

with Life and Anecdotes. Including his Dramatic Writings, printed
from the Original Editions, his Works in Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a Col lection of Sheridaniana.
Demy Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Men.

With Historical and Explanatory Notes. By Samuel A. Bent, M. A.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with loo Illustrations, 7s. 6d,

Signboards :

Their History. With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns and Remarkable
Characters. By J jacob Haywood and John Ca m den Hqtten.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. 64,

Slang Dictionary, The :

Etymological. History cal, and Anecdotal.

Exquisitely printed in miniature, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2S. 6i.

Smoker's Text-book, The.

By J. Homer, F.R.S.L.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra. Illustrated, 14s.

South-West, The New:

Travelling Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico, Arizona, and
Northern Mexico. By Ernst VON Hesse-Wartegg. With 100

fine Illustrations and 3 Maps. [In preparation.

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 5s.

Spalding.— Elizabethan Demonology:

An Essay in Illustration of the Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the Powers possessed by them. By T. Alfred Spalding, LL.B.

Crown 4to, with Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, 6s.

Spenser for Children.

By M. H. Tory. With Illustrations by Walter J. Morgan.
A New Edition, small crown Bvo, cloth extra, 5s.

Staunton.— Laws and Practice of Chess ;

Together with an Analysis of the Openings, and a Treatise on End
Games. By Howard d Staunton. Edited by Robert B. World.

Crovm Bvo, cloth extra, gs,

Seaman.— Victorian Poets :

Critical Essays . By Edmund Cl clarence St edman.

Stevenson (R. Louis), Works by :

Familiar Studies of Men and Books. By R. Louis Stevenson.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s,
New Arabian Nights. By R. Louis Stevenson. New and
Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
We must place the 'Net Arahmn Nights ' very high indeed, almost hors concours,
among the fiction of the present day."—VK t. i. Mall G gazette.

Two Vols. , crown 8vo, with numerous Portraits and Illustrations, 245.

Strain.— Twenty Years of a Publisher's

Life. By Alexander Strain. [In preparation.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Struts's Sports and Pastimes of the People of

England ; including the Rural and Domestic Recreations May
Games, Mummers, Shows, Processions, Pageants, and Pompous
Spectacles, from the Earliest Period to the Present Time. With 140
Illustrations. Edit£ by William Hon.

Crown 8vo, with a Map of Suburban London, cloth extra, 7s. 6d,

Suburban Homes (The) of London :

A Residential Guide to Favourite London Localities, their Society,
Celebrities, and Associations. With Notes on their Rental, Rates,
and House Accommodation.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d,

Swift's Choice Works,

In Prose and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait, and Facsimiles of tho
Maps in the Original Edition of " Tulliver's Travels."

Swinburne's (Algerian

The Queen Mother and Rosamond.
Fcap. 8vo, 5s.

Atlanta in Galton.
A New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Chastened.
A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, 7s.

Poems and Ballads.
First Series. Fcap. 8vo, gs. Also
in crown 8vo, at same price.

Poems and Ballads.

Second Series. Fcap. Bvo, gs. Also
in crown Svo, at same price.

Notes on Poems and Reviews.

Bvo, IS.

William Blake :

A Critical Essay. With Facsimile
Paintings. Demy 8vo, ici.

Songs before Sunrise.

Crown 8vo, 10*. td.

Both well :
A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6i.

C.) Works :

George Chapman :
An Essay. Crown Bvo, 75,

Songs of Two Nations.

Crown Bvo, 6s.

Essays and Studies.

Crown Bvo, 12s.

Erechtheus :

A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Note of an English Republican

on the Muscovite Crusade, bvo, is,

A Note on Charlotte Bronze,

Crown Bvo, 6s.

A Study of Shakespeare.

Crown Bvo, 8s.

Songs of the Springtide,

Crown Bvo, 6s.

Studies in Song.

Crown Bvo, ys.

Mary Stuart :

A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, 8s.
Tristan of Lioness, and other

Poems. Crown Bvo, gs.

Medium 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours,

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search of Consolation, and in Search
of a Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's droll page Illustrations
in Colours, and a Life of the Author by J. C. Rotten.

Four Vols, small 8vo, cloth boards, sos.

Taine's History of English Literature.

Translated by Henry Van Lain.
*,* Also » Popular Edition, in Two Vols, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 153,

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, profusely Illustrated, 6s,

Tales of Old Thule.

Collected and Illustrated by J. Moor SMITH.

One Vol., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d,

Taylor's (Tom) Historical Dramas:

Chancery," " Jeanne Dare," " 'Twixt Axe and Crown," " TheFool'i

Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife," " Anne Boleyn." " Plot and Passion."

%* The Plays may also be had separately, at Is. each.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, 7s. 64.

Thackerayana :

Notes and Anecdotes, Illustrated by a profusion of Sketches by
William Makepeace Thackeray, depicting Humorous Incidents
in his School-life, and Favourite Characters in the books of his everyday
reading. With Coloured Frontispiece and Hundreds of Wood
Engravings, facsimile from Mr. Thackeray's Original Drawings.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Thomson's Seasons and Castle of Indolence.

With a Biographical and Critical Introduction by Allan Cunningham,
and over 50 fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood.

Thornbury (Walter), Works by:

Haunted London. Edited by Edward Walford, M.A. With

Illustrations by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Life and Correspondence of J. M. W. Turner. Founded

upon Letters and Papers furnished by his Friends and teJlow Academicians.
With numerous Illustrations in Colours, facsimile from Turner's
Original Dra wings. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Times (John), Works by:

Clubs and Club Life in London. With Anecdotes of its Famous
Coffee-houses, Hostelries, and Taverns. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

English Eccentrics and Eccentricities: Stories of Wealth and
Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights
and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric Artists, Theatrical Folks, Men of Letters,
&c. Wi th nearly 50 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, /s. 6d.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 145.

Torrens.— The Marquess Wellesley,

Architect of Empire. An Historic Portrait. Forming Vol. I. of PRO*
Consul and Tribune: Wellesley and O'Connell; Historic
Portraits. By W. M, Torrens, M.P . In Two Vols.

Large folio, handsomely bound, 31s. 6d,

Turner's Rivers of England :

Sixteen Drawings by J. M. W. Turner, R.A., and Three by THOMAS
Girths, Mezzotinted by Thomas Lufton, Charles Turner, and
other Engravers. With Descriptions by Mrs. Holland A New
Edition, reproduced by Telegraph. Edited by W. Cosmo Monk-house,
Author of " The Life of Turner " in the " Great Artists "
Series [Sh portly.

Two Vols., crown 8vo. cloth extra, with Map and Ground-Plans. 145.

Walcott.— Church Work and Life in English

Minsters; and the English Student's Monastic. By the Re?.
Mckenzie E. C. Walcott, Bed.



The Twenty-third Annual Edition, for 1883, cloth, full gilt, 50s.

Walford.— The County Families of the United

Kingdom. By Edward Walford, M.A. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education, &c., of more than 12,000
distinguished Heads of Families, their Heirs Apparent or Presumptive,
the OfBces they hold or have held, their Town and Country
Addresses, Clubs, &c.

Large crown 8vo, cloth antique, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d,

Walton and Cotton's Complete Angler ;

or. The Contemplative Man's Recreation ; being a Discourse of Rivers,
Fishponds, Fish and Fishing, written by Izaak Walton ; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or Grayling in a clear Stream, by
Charles Cotton. With Original Memoirs and Notes by Sir Harris
Nicholas, and 61 Copperplate Illustrations,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. per volume.

Wanderer's Library, The :

Tunis : The Land and the People.
By the Chevalier de .
With 22 Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a
Cheap Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Handley.

Wanderings in Patagonia; or,

Life among the Ostrich Hunters. By
Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport
and Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. By Frederick Boyle.

Savage Life. By Frederick
Boyle.

Merrier England in the Olden
Time. By George Daniel. With
Illustrations by Root. Cruikshank.

The World Behind the Scenes.

By Percy Fitzgerald.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers.
By Thomas Frost.

The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs. By Thomas Frost.

Low-life Deeps. An Account
of the Strange Fish to be found there.
By James Greenwood.

The Wilds of London. By
James Greenwood.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings ;

Including the Origin of Signs, and

Reminiscences connected with

Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.

By Charles Hinder. With Illusts.
The Genial Showman : Life

and Adventures of Artemus Ward.

By E. P. Kingston. Frontispiece.
The Story of the London Parks.

By Jacob Haywood. With Illusts.
London Characters. By Henry

Mathew. Illustrated.

Seven Generations of Executioners:
Memoirs of the Samson
Family (1688 to 1847). Edited by
Henry Samson.

Summer Cruising in the South

Seas. Bv Charles Warren Standard.
Illust. by Charles Mackay.

Carefully printed on paper to imitate the Original, 22 in. by 14 in., 2S.

Warrant to Execute Charles I.

An exact Facsimile of this important Document, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures of the Regicides, and corresponding Seals.

Beautifully printed on paper to imitate the Original MS., price 2s.

Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of Scots.

An exact Facsimile, including the Signature of Queen Elizabeth, and
a Facsimile of the Great Seal.

Westropp.— Handbook of Pottery and Porcelain
; or, History of those Arts from the Earliest Period. By Fodder
M. Westropp. With numerous Illustrations, and a List of Marks.

Seventh Edition. Square 8vo, is.

Whistler Vo Ruskin : Art and Art Critics.

By J. A. Macneill Whistler,

Williams (Mattieuu), Works by:

Science in Short Chapters. By W. Mattieuu Williams,

F.R.A.S., F.C.S. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

A Simple Treatise on Heat. By W. Mattieuu Williams,

F.R.A.S., F.C.S. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, zs. 6d.

Wilson (Dr. Andrew), Works by :

Chapters on Evolution : A Popular History of the Darwinian and

Allied Theories of Development. By Andrew Wilson, Ph.D., F.R.S.E.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with 259 Illustrations, /S. 6d.
Leaves from a Naturalist's Note-book. By Andrew Wilson,

Ph.D., F.R.S.E; (A Volume of "The Mayfair Library") Post 8vo

cloth limp, 2S. 6d.

Leisure - Time Studies, chiefly Biological. By Andrew

Wilson, Ph.D., F.R.S.E. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with

Illustrations, 6s.
"It is well when we can take up the work of a really qualified investigator,
who in the intervals of his more serious professional labours sets himself to impart
knowledge in such a simple and elementary form as may attract and instruct,
with no danger of misleading the tyro in natural science. Such a work is this
little volume, made up of essays and addresses written and delivered by Dr.
Andrew Wilson, lecturer and examiner in Science at Edinburgh and Glasgow,
at leisure intervals in a busy professional life. . . . Dr. Wilson's pages theirs
with matter stimulating to a healthy love of science and a reverence for the
truths of nature." — Saturday Review.

Small 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 6s.

Wooing (The) of the Water Witch :

A Northern Oddity. By Evan Daldorne. Illust. by J. Moor Smith.
Crown 8vo, half-bound, 12s. 6d.

Words, Facts, and Phrases :

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and Out-of-the-way Matters. By
Believer Edwards.

Wright (Thomas), Works by:

Caricature History of the Georges. (The House csf Hanover.)
With 400 Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides, Window Pictures,
&c. By Thomas Wright, F.S.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

History of Caricature and of the Grotesque in Art, Literature,

Scripture, and Painting. By Thomas Wright, F.S.A. Profusely Illustrated
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Large post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

J. OGDEN AND CO., PRINTERS, I72, ST. JOHN STREET, Eg.

(e

>l

'imymf^s^-^m ^

3 0112 052944474
