FENWICK'S

gkDulatitig Library

(in Connection with Mudie'sJ.

Single Subscription, 10/6 per Annum.

Six Months, 6/-

This Subscription does not include the Newest Books
until the first demand has subsided).

SINGLE VOLUMES LENT TO READ

AT ONE PENNY PER DAY.

-^ 108, WESTERN ROAD ^

(Near Norfolk Square),

i'



A*^i^^^ ^

n

mm

WM^.

1^'

VOL. I.

A NEW NOVEL BY OUIDA. 3 vols.

crown 8vo.

GOD AND THE MAN. By Robert

Buchanan, Author of * The Shadow of the Sword ' &c.
3 vols, crown 8vo.

THE COMET OF A SEASON. By Justin

Mc(^ARTHY, M. P. , Author of ' Miss Misanthrope ' &c.
3 vols, crown 8vo.

PRINCE SARONI's WIFE, and other Stories.
By Julian Hawthorne. 3 vols, crown 8vo.

A HEART'S PROBLEM. By Charles

Gibbon, Author of * Robin Gray ' &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo.

THE BRIDE'S PASS. By Sarah Tatler.

2 vols, crown 8vo.

SOMETHING IN THE CITY. By George

Augustus Sala. 3 vols, crown 8vo.

CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/josephscoat01murr

BY

DAVID CHRISTIE MURRAY

AUTHOR OF A LIFE S ATONEMENT ETC.

IFit/i TWELVE ILLUSTRATIONS by FRED. Barnard

IX THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY


All rights re serf

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

ILLUSTRATIONS TO VOL. I

The Eeverend Paul was knocked headlong
INTO THE ARMS OF BusHELL, SENIOR Frontispiece

'We were MARRIED LAST Whitsuntide ' . to face ^. 100

Yes, father, I've overstated the market * ,. 206

He glared at her like one distraught ' „ 290

Have Yor been a-trtix' to steal a coat

o" mine ? ' . 306

,0^

^"^

i.

PROLOGUE.

CHAPTER I.

Old Joe and young Joe, sturdy sire and lissome
son, trudged through the dust together — old
Joe bent down a little earthwards, and going
rather like a carthorse ; young Joe with his
head well up, and stepping like a hunter that
can carry weight. I see them in my mind's
eye, as in a picture. Old Joe, dressed in white
moleskin of such weight and thickness that he
looked like a polar bear, with his gnarled hands
hanging lazily and solidly as if each carried a
hundredweight which his gigantic strength made
light of, — blue-eyed, grey-whiskered, with deep

YOL I. B

blue scars like tattoo marks all over this face, —
tramped on serenely, pipe in mouth. Young
Joe, with a sprouting bit of whisker, downy as
yet, and yellow like a callow fledgling's feathers ;
blue-eyed, broad-shouldered, lithe and limber,
went springing at the old man's side. Young
Joe was dressed like a gentleman of that period
(it is nearly thirty years since the father and
son walked side by side for the last time), and
he and the old man made altogether a fine
contrast. Old Joe was stolidly genial, as befitted
a man who had beaten the world hollow,
and now took his ease with dignity. Young
Joe had something of an aggressive air, or
carried at least a sort of warning in his face —
nemo me impune lacessit This warning was
perhaps a trifle sulky, as was natural, all things
considered. How rich old Joe might be no
man knew, but he clung to the dress and habits
of his youth — dressed like a working miner on
holiday, lived like a miner, looked like a miner,
and was proud to talk like one. Young Joe,
bred at a distant ' college school,' and returning
home only at holiday times, resented these

things. His speech was of the finest, his clothes
were of the best — the son of a baronet was his
chosen chum, he had yearnings towards the
world of fashion, and believed that he could
shine in that bright sphere, if he had but a
chance. Old Joe cared for none of those things,
and, except for a certain sturdy self-possession,
had no pride. He would have met the hereditary
Autocrat of All the Paissias with a sentiment
of equality so natural that he would not
have dreamed of formulating it even to himself.
Young Joe formulated this beliefs in the equality
of mankind daily, and, with a natural want of
logic, resented with great hauteur the approach
of any of his father's old and less prosperous
companions. He himself was ' a man for a'
that ' — cela va sans dire — ^^but ' for a' that and
a' that,' the claims of one's social inferiors must
be repelled and beaten down. He was the
equal of any man above him, but no one below
him had a right to a similar claim. This mental
attitude is not uncommon.

Young Joe resented his name, and would
have preferred Reginald, or Herbert, or Walter

B 2

or anything rather than Joseph, so easily susceptible
of a vulgar abbreviation. He was not
without pride in his father, but he resented the
old man's clothes, and his house, and his speech.
And, most bitterly and shamefacedly of all, ho
resented the spectacle he was now on his way
to witness.

It was summer weather, in days when
summer weather meant warmth and sunshine.
There was sunshine even here, though the scene
lay in the centre of the Black Country. It is
pleasant to notice how nature has reasserted
herself in that grimy province after all the scars
which labour has left upon her. Labour has
dug deep into her heart, and has rifled her very
entrails, and has set upon her breast such
burdens as Enceladus lay under. Yet, wheresoever
you see her face, she smiles ; wheresoever
her busy hands can move, she weaves her spells.
Tall purple foxgloves lined the road, and the
hawthorns were white with blossom, and the
lark shook with the delight of his own song a
mile above the smoke wreaths. It was Sunday
also, and the smoke wreaths were something

thinner and even fewer than they would have
been on any other day in the seven. Old Joe
had a little of the quiet Sabbath feeling on
him. Young Joe, prideMly resenting all things,
resented Sunday terribly because of the shame
it brought him.

Father and son were on their way to listen
to the most popular preacher of the time and
neighbourhood. That preacher was a woman.
Nay, the murder must out : that woman was
Eebecca Bushell, old Joe's wife and young Joe's
mother. On the subject of female preachers in
general young Joe had incisive opinions, sharpened
probably by some personal feeling. That
his mother should preach, and be publicly
advertised to preach, and that she should speak
in public with no disguise of that picturesque
and drawling accent which was her birthright,
was an affliction which the lad's pride had borne
with groaning this many a day. And now,
worse than all, here was his mother — in combination
with greasy-complexioned professionals,
whom he knew, in seedy black and ties of
dubious white, and roomy shoes topped by too-visible

stockings of white cotton, also dubious
in tone — conducting a camp-meeting, advertised
far and wide in flaring posters, and sure to bring,
with crowds of the pious, countless railers, to
many of whom he himself was known. The
reader will understand the term ' camp-meeting '
in a limited sense. It was a camp-meeting with
no encampment, and lasted one day only.

As father and son walked together, there
was heard suddenly the bray of a band, drowning
the lark's music, and far and wide the
sound of the Hallelujah Chorus filled the fields.
It was not ignobly played or sung, though
band and choir alike needed a little fining here
and there. The folk of the Black Country are
essentially musical, and here they played and
sang with all their heart and soul and lungs.
There was a little admixture of strings with
the wind , instruments, and a' tailor led the
violins. ' Now David,' cried the drummer, ashe
grasped his sticks, ' let thy elbow fly like a
lamb's tail ! ' and David nodded to this encouragement,
and led the way at a rattling pace.
Whilst the band and choir were in the midst of

their fervour, the two late comers took their
place at the edge of the vast crowd. There
were some five-and-twenty thousand people
present, and the gathering could scarcely fail
to be impressive. The place of meeting had
some advantages and some disadvantages. For
one thing, the crowd was sundered by the
waters of a canal ; but as a set-off against this,
the lock, over which the platform was built,
stood some ten or twelve feet above the hollow
land in which the multitude had gathered,
so that all could at least see the orators of the
day. The platform was primitive but secure,
and consisted of great beams of timber laid
from wall to wall of the lock ; and in the
centre was another smaller platform on which
the more prominent of the promoters of the
meeting were gathered. They were a rugged
set for the most part, and the presence of one
or two massive women added little refinement
to this central knot. ]airs. Bush ell sat in black
silk — square, hard, uncompromising in face
and figure — at the little unclothed deal table
with red legs, on which were set a water-bottle,

a glass, a Bible, and a few scattered liymn-
books. Young Joe, discerning here and there
an acquaintance in the crowd, blushed at the
figure on the platform and revolted at its
presence there. One gentleman, the son of a
neighbouring coal owner, beholding young Joe,
waited until he caught his eye, and then, from
his coign of vantage near the lock gates,
elaborately winked at him. At this and a
slight backward motion of the head, indicating
the chief personage on the platform, the youngster
turned scarlet, but he held his head erect
and felt savagely defiant — not least defiant,
perhaps, of his mother and the prominence of
her place. Old Joe, with his massive hands
depending downwards, smoked his clay calmly
at the edge of the crowd by his son's side.
These al-fresco religious observances had one
especial charm for the elder Bushell ; they
found room for a pipe ; and without the soothing
influence of his tube of clay, the old man found
the best of sermons dull.

Young Joe's resentfulness of humour increased
as he stood by his father's side. But

he was there to brave the whole thing out, and
to show to his friends that he was not ashamed
of his father and mother and their ways. But
why, in the name of all things abominable,
would his father insist on wearing moleskin
clothing and on smoking a clay x^ipe at such
a place and time ? and why should his mother
sit there, the centre of these vulgar orators,
gazed at by all these vulgar eyes ? He was
not ashamed of them, he told himself. Was
he not here by his own free will ? He grew
more and more wrathful and rebellious as he
nursed these thoughts.

By-and-by, after the due introductory
readings and prayers had been gone through,
and when a hymn had been sung with rough
and striking grandeur of tone, Mrs. Eebecca
Bushell rose squarely up, and gave out her
text and preached. I suppose that everybody
who reads this will have some notion of what a
revival sermon is like, and that there is therefore
no need for me to set down Mrs. Bush ell's
utterances. The creed she unfolded was stern
and ugly, though modified by some private

tenderness of her own, and young Joe knew
well enough that much of the discourse was
levelled at himself. The presence of her son
gave her speech a passionate earnestness which
it would otherwise have missed, and she
preached at the crowd through him, and at
him through the crowd. This also young Joe
resented, and savagely endured. It came to
an end at last, and twenty-five thousand pairs of
lungs aided the band in giving breath to the
Old Hundredth, which rolled its slow, grand
stream of sound across the sunny fields, and
was heard, soft and sweet with distance, in the
Sabbath streets of the town a mile away.

The crowd broke into scattered sections
and took its devious way towards a mid-day
dinner. The old man and his son passed to
the platform.

Joseph,' said Eebecca, descending, ' put
that pipe away. For shame — on a Sunday, an'
at meeting too.'

All right, missis,' said Bushell senior.
There's no harm in a pipe.' And he smoked
on placidly.

His wife, knowing by old experience the
uselessness of opposition, resigned the point
with a sigh, and walked gravely away with the
Reverend Paul Screed.

In these days in which I write the Eeverend
Paul is dead, and no truth can hurt his feelings
any more. But it is true of him that he
preached a vulgar gospel, worshipped a vulgar
god, and had vulgar notions upon all things
which came within the sphere of an intellect
not too well instructed. He was always in
remarkable earnest, and was very certain that
all his beliefs were accurate and that all beliefs
running counter to his own were sinful. He
was incapable of doing a wilful wrong to anybody.
In person he was gaunt and bony, and
his general aspect was repellent. Young Joe,
resenting most things, resented the Eeverend
Paul with a vehemence inspired by direct hate.
The Reverend Paul, for his part, looked on the
young man with a stony severity of holiness
which foresaw for him eternal pains and
penalties.

Mrs. Bushell, arm-in-arm with the minister,

walked homewards, and her husband and her
son followed at a little distance. By-and-by
came round a corner of the lane, facing this
broken quartette, a youngster resplendent in
the devices of the latest fashion, switching at
the hedges as he walked. The lane was fairly
filled with scattered groups of homeward-going
worshippers, and all but the new-comer were
walking in one direction. He strolled along, a
good deal stared at, and pausing suddenly before
young Joe, thrust out a gloved hand, and said
Good morning ' in a loud and cheery voice.
The youngster, a little embarrassed, returned his
greeting. The old man, without pausing, turned
his head, and in his broadest drawl bade his
son be home in time for dinner.

Who's that ? ' said the new-comer. He
was one of those people who, without knowing
it, are audible under ordinary conditions over a
circuit of fifty yards.

My father,' young Joe answered, speaking
in tones as loud as the other's, and with an air
of injured pride,

'Who's that's' asked old Joe, returning,

and joining the young men as they stood before
each other.

Mr. Sydney Cheston,' said young Joe ;
Sir Sydney Cheston's son. My father, Mr.
Cheston.'

How be you ? ' said old Joe, pipe in mouth.
He kept his hands in the pockets of his moleskin
jacket, and nodded at the baronet's son
with perfect naturalness.

I am very well,' returned Lir. Cheston.
How be you ? '

I'm as right as a trivet,' old Joe answered,
unsuspicious of satire. For a moment he had
thought the loud 'Who's that?' a little
impudent, but seeing the young man cheerful
and self-possessed, forgot to notice it. Young
Joe burned to knock ]vit. Sydney Cheston
down. 'I've heard Joe talk about you,' said
the old man comfortably. ' Come and have a
bit o' dinner along of us. Eh ? '

Very sorry,' the young buck returned, ' I
have an enoraofement.'

All right,' said the old man, nodding. ' Be
in time, Joe. Good morning', young mister.'

Good morning, governor,' said Mr. Clinton
with loud cheerfulness. Young Joe raged
inwardly. 'Queer old bird, the pater,' the
future baronet made comment, in a moderated
voice.

'It occurs to me,' young Joe replied, in
rapid undertone, ' that I am scarcely a lit repository
for your opinions.'

My dear fellow,' said Mr. Cheston lightly,
everything must have a beginning. You
begin now, and we began a hundred years ago.
That's all the difference.'

Possibly,' said young Joe with great stiffness.
His reply was somewhat vague, even to
himself ; but he felt that he discharged a duty,
whilst he relieved the gathered spleen of the
whole morning.

Don't be rusty,' Mr. Cheston answered.
Anybody's welcome to tell me that wy
governor's a queer old bird. Gad, he is ! A
very queer old bird. Most men's governors
are queer old birds. We shall be queer old
birds ourselves some day.'

Young Joe, a little mollified and a little in

haste to be rid of that sore subject, asked what
had brought his friend into the neighbourhood.
The out-of-door worshippers were still straggling
by, and Cheston, taking Joe's arm, turned
with him and struck across a by-path which
led through cornfields, where the bright scarlet
of thick-growing poppies lent more beauty than
value to the crop.

I'm staying with old Moulding, at the
Hollies,' Cheston said ; ' and as they all went
to church this morning, I ventured on a lonely
stroll through the region. I'm skid I did it,
for I've seen two things which impressed me
vastly.'

Imprimis ? ' asked young Joe, trying to
catch some little seeming of gaiety, if only for
wounded pride's sake.

Imprimis,' answered Cheston, ' the
prettiest face I ever set eyes on. A Black
Country beauty. A rose springing from an
artificial Alp of slag and cinder.'

Oh ! ' said the other in a meditative way.

'Pleasing spectacle number one,' said
Cheston gaily, as though addressing an audience,

led to pleasing spectacle number two.
Number one, dressed in the most becoming
and least conventional fashion, was apparently-bound
for church or chapel, inasmuch as she
bore a hymn-book and looked devotional and
demure. Having no fear of the proprieties
before my eyes, and having a natural delight in
the contemplation of beauty, I lit up a cigar
and strolled after her. By-and-by we came
upon an enormous outdoor meeting, where my
little beauty met her mother or some other
elderly female dragon, and I lost sight of her.
But I know where she lives and I am going to
have another look at her.'

Young Joe, without seeing any clear grounds
for apprehension, spoke with some anxiety,
though with outer lightness.

Who is this charming young person ? '
She dwells,' said Cheston, simulating a
melodramatic tone, ' though in what capacity
I know not, at the sign of the Saracen's Head,
and her divine name is Diana — or Dinah. Yes,
it's Dinah. I heard the guardian dragon scold
her for being late.'

A blush, partly of anger and partly of embarrassment,
was on young Joe's face. He
forced a laugh.

Yes, she's a pretty girl ; ' then hurriedly,
to escape further discussion of the topic, ' And
what was pleasing spectacle number two ? '

Pleasing spectacle number two,' said
Cheston, with noisy cheerfulness, ' was a sort of
she-Boaners^es in black silk who harangued the
multitude. I protest,' lie went on, laughing
heartily, ' that she was worth a journey to the
North Pole to look at and to listen to. But I
dare say you were there and heard her. You
were coming back that way. For myself, I
walked off to the Saracen's Head and watched
my little divinity in again before I turned to
walk to the Hollies.'

What with wounded pride, and jealous
fear, and his resentful rage at things in general,
young Joe was very near to boiling-point.

You know everybody hereabouts,' said
Cheston, with obtuse good humour and unflagging
enjoyment in the sound of his own voice —

VOL. I. c

sweeter music than the spheres could make —
who was the she-Boanerges ? '

Young Joe reached boiling-point and
bubbled over.

She was my mother, sir I And in ten
minutes you have insulted my father and my
mother and have told me how you dogged my
my sweetheart home, and — and — I tell
you what it is, Cheston. You cash that I U
I have of yours at your earliest convenience,
and don't trouble yourself to know me anymore.
Good morning.'

And off went the hapless young fellow in a
great heat, with a face like a peony, and with
smarting tears in his eyes. Cheston stood a
moment, stunned, as though an invisible avalanche
had fallen upon him. Then he raced
after his late companion and caught him by the
shoulder in the act of mounting the first stile.

My dear fellow,' he said pantingly, ' pray
forgive me. I was quite ignorant. I wouldn't
have done it for the world. Pray do forgive
me. I beg your pardon a hundred thousand
times.'

Young Joe saving himself out of the other's
grasp and mounted the stile. He melted a
little notwithstanding. He wanted somebody's
sympathy and companionship, and Cheston was
evidently very sorry. But how could he turn
and show the hot tears which were even then
finding their channels on his face ? The penitent
vaulted the stile after him and pursued
him with breathless apology, and at last took
him by the shoulders and swung him fairly
round. At that, in a sudden gust of added
shame for the tears with which his eyes
were filled, he gave his rage full swing, and
launched a blow at the apologist, and stood
waving his arms above him, demanding wildly
to know if the prostrate Cheston wanted anymore.


By Jove I do,' roared the late penitent,
and springing to his feet he threw his hat and
coat upon the grass and awaited young Joe's
onslaught. For a minute the two stood face to
face, in posture of defence. Then Cheston
dropped this hands. 'It was quite my fault,
Bushell,' he said, ' and I won't fight about it.

c 2

I don't wonder at your striking me. Let us
say no more about it. Shake hands, old man,
shake hands

Thereupon young Joe shamefacedly shook
hands, stammered some broken excuses —
temper greatly tried,' and so forth — and went
his way.

He's got hateful of money,' meditated the
future baronet, as young Joe walked miserably
away. ' But ain't he paying for having it, poor
beggar ? — ain't he just, that's all ? '

CHAPTER n.

Mr. and Mrs. Bushell and the Reverend Paul
Screed sat at meat together. A pair of fowls
and a leg of mutton, cooked on the previous
day to avoid the desecration of the Sabbath by-needless
labour, decorated the board, whilst hot
vegetables made a sort of concession from
religious principle to hospitality.

Shall us wait for Joseph ? ' the old man
asked. Joseph was Joe in non-company
hours. The conventional form was a concession
to the presence of the Reverend Paul.

If Joseph can't get home in time for
dinner,' said Mrs. Bushell, ' Joseph must go
without.'

Nonsense, missis,' said the old man
genially. ' Nobody go's wi'out grub i' this
house as long as there is any. But we'll go on
wi*out him if you like.'

Grace had already been pronounced by the
Eeverend Paul, who crumbled his bread in
silence during this brief debate, with a demure
eye on the leg of mutton. Mrs. Bushell had
the head of the table, and set to work businesslike
on the cold fowls. At that moment young
Joe entered, still resentful, and somewhat
heated by a hurried walk home. Mrs. Bushell
silently carved for him also and set his plate
before him. Father to be doing something to
hide the agitation which yet remained with
him, than because the food invited him, he
took up his knife and fork. The Eeverend
Paul laid a detaining hand upon his arm, and
arose slowly. The three bowed their heads
whilst the minister pronounced a second and
supplementary ' blessing.' ' For what Mr.
Joseph is about to receive may the Lord make
him truly thankful.' Young Joe accepted this
as a new affront, and his food choked him.
He pushed his plate a little away, after making
an ineffectual attempt at the cold fowl.

'Joseph,* said his mother with placid
severity, ' it is better to serve God than

Mammon. I can't break the Sabbath by
cooking to satisfy your carnal appetites

I don't want you to cook for me, mother
said the young fellow, sorely baited by his own
feelings. ' The fowl is well enough, but I am
not hungry. That is all.'

The mother sighed — and the sio-h said
plainly. ' I hold my own opinion.' The father
set his hand on the young man's shoulder.

'You've been a bit downhearted-hke all
morning'. What's the matter, lad ? Ain't you
well ? '

I am not altogether well, father,' young
Joe answered.

Mrs. Bushell's severity vanished, and she
looked at her son's flushed face with motherly
eyes and instant anxiety and pity.

You're a bit feverish, Joseph,' she said ; ' I
can see that. Have a glass o' wine an' lie
down.'

I think I will lie down,' said young Joe,
glad to escape, though conscious of hypocrisy.
I will lie do^\Ti a little while if you'll excuse
me. No, never mind the wine, mother.'

Perhaps,' said the Eeverend Paul, ' it is
the working of the powerful word we heard
this morning.'

Mrs. Bushell shook her head, and sighed
again. This second sigh said plainly, ' I am a
humble vessel.'

'Let us hope so, ma'am,' said the Eeverend
Paul, at once recognising and waiving Mrs.
Bushell's depreciation of herself.

The lad's well enough,' said old Joe,
reaching out his fork and appropriating a slice
of cold mutton.

You're over-careless, Joseph,' said Mrs.
Bushell, helping the Eeverend Paul. ' You're
over-careless yourself, Joseph. I wish Mr.
Screed 'ud say a solemn word to him.'

I will, ma'am,' said the Eeverend Paul,
with his hand upon the beer-jug.

Nothing of this was spoken in young Joe's
hearing. He, cooling himself meanwhile with
a cigar in his own room, thought over the
events of the morning with self-tormenting
accusation. He despised himself for having
made allusion to the I U, and he hated himself

for having struck his old school companion
and constantly good-humoured friend. And
he laid all these things, with whatever other of
his own faults and misdoings he could think of.
at the parental doors ; though, even as he did
so, some self-accusing: thoughts assailed him.

The Eeverend Paul in the meantime meditated
on the solemn word he had promised to
say to young Joe, and as he thought about it,
he grew more and more severe in his judgments
upon young Joe's private character and
spiritual prospects. It was quite in a mood of
prophetic indignation, therefore, that he encountered
the object of his reflections. The old
man had gone upstairs for his afternoon nap —
his custom always — and Mrs. Bushell was asleep
in the back parlour, when young Joe came a
little stealthily downstairs, and, taking his hat
from its peg, went towards the door. The
Eeverend Paul, also moving stealthily, emerged
from the front parlour and approached the
young man on tiptoe.

May I ask a word with you ? ' he said
with ghostly solemnity.

You may young Joe answered. He bad
smoked himself into a better humour, but he
hated the reverend gentleman, as I have said
already, and his gorge arose at him.

The minister went on tiptoe back into the
parlour, and young Joe, like a conspirator,
followed stealthily. It was the habit of the
household to go about in this wise whilst the
elder Bushell took his nap.

'Mister Joseph,' said the Eeverend Paul,
your mother has requested me to speak a
solemn word to you.'

About what ? ' asked young Joe, with his
eyes glittering a little wickedly.

Your soul,' said the Eeverend Paul.

Ah ! ' said Joe, with a sigh of desperation ;
what about it ? '

It is greatly to be feared,' said the Reverend
Paul.' that you are in a state of impenitence.'


About what ? ' asked young Joe again.
I'm very penitent for some things, and not at
all penitent for others.'

You resist the Spirit,' said the minister ina

solemn murmur ; ' you neglect the means of
grace ; you scoff at the way of safety ; you
live in open profligacy.'

What ? ' asked the other. The question
was put with startling distinctness, and sounded
like a pistol-shot snapping across the subdued
grumble of a violoncello.

'I have watched you closely,' said the
minister ; ' you spent an hour yesterday in a
tap-room.'

I did nothing of the sort,' young Joe
declared hotly. 'I passed through a tap-room
on my way to play a game at billiards.'

A profitless and sinful waste of time,' said
the Eeverend Paul.

There are some tidings,' said young Joe,
with a fine-gentleman manner, ' which you and
I cannot agree upon. I challenge your right
to watch me, but every beast acts after his
own instinct, and I can't help that. You are
my father's guest, Mr. Screed, and I am bound
not to quarrel with you. If you take any interest
in my spiritual welfare, you will refrain
from provoking me to wrath. That is, I

believe, the proper phrase. Good afternoon,
sir.'

The Eeverend Paul Screed's wrath was
seasoned by a certain self-repression and a
certain sense of authority. He told himself,
and he believed it, that he did well to be
angry. But, in spite of the fact that he was,
according to his lights, a good man, he had a
strain of meanness in him. Anger, says the
old poet, is a brief madness. It is also a self-revelation,
searching as lightning.

Young Joe was on his way to the door, hat
in hand. The minister, with one hand on the
wall and the other grasping the edge of the
door, barred this progress.

I am not to be debarred, Mister Joseph,'
he said, very picked and precise in every syllable,
as men only educated late in life are apt
to be, — M am not to be debarred, Mr. Joseph,
from doing my duty by any pretended contempt
you may assume. It is my business to
warn you, and I do it without fear. If my
warnings are disregarded by you, I shall carry
them elsewhere. I have already told you that

I have watched you closely. I witnessed yoiir
parting last night from that unhappy girl
whom you are endeavouring to entrap.'

Eh ? ' said young Joe, an ocfiive higher
than his common speech, and very softly.

I spoke to her,' said the Eeverend Paul,
and admonished her. And I shall make it
my business now, for her soul's safety and
yours, to tell your parents and hers what I
know about this matter.'

'You will, will you? ' said the other in the
same soft key.

I can tell already,' said the Eeverend Paul,
that it will be useless to appeal to any honourable
instinct in you. And I have seen enough
of the girl whom you have endeavoured to
make the victim of your arts and wiles, to
know that only constant watching could ensure
her safety.'

At that instant three people were tremendously
surprised. And I cannot tell who was
the most profoundly amazed amongst them.
I record the fact. Young Joe struck the Pteve-
read Paul and knocked him headlong into the

arms of Busliell senior, at that moment in the
act of entering the room. Father and son regarded
each other across the semi-prostrate
figure of the minister with blank amazement,
for young Joe was as wildly astonished at his
own deed as even the Reverend Paul himself
could be. Yet, having done the deed, he must
abide by it.

Why, what's all this ? ' demanded the old
man sternly.

This fellow,' said young Joe, scornfully
indicating the minister, who held a white
handkerchief to his mouth, 'has the insolence
to tell me that he has been watching me this
long time past. He says he saw me kiss a
pretty girl last night, and that he's going to
tell her mother and my mother, and have us
looked after and taken care of. And he has
the audacity to tell me that nothing but close
watching can save my — my sweetheart's
virtue.'

disingenuous and cowardly young Joe !
It was not too late even then, and one honest

word might have saved you, but you would
not speak it.

An' becos a minister o' God's word, as is
a old man likewise, speaks a honest word o'
warning' to you, you go an' knock him down! An'
you do it in your father's house, of a Sunday ! '

He insulted a lady,' said young Joe, ' for
whom I have a great respect and regard. I
never meant to strike him. I tried to leave
the room, and he stood m the doorway, and
wouldn't let me pass. Suppose a man had
attacked my mother's reputation before you
married her, wouldn't you have knocked him
down ? '

Old Joe had been a little too handy at
knocking people down in his own youth, on
lighter provocation, to feel that he had any
great right to be severe about this matter.
Yet he felt keenly that an outrage had been
committed, and that it must in some way be
atoned for. He was angry, but he was
puzzled, and, as his readiest refuge from bewilderment,
he looked angrier than he was.

As for young Joe, lie began to feel that he was
dangerous and incendiary. He had knocked
down two men in one day, and he was now
bitterly ashamed of the achievement. One of
the men was his closest friend, and the other
was elderly and was laid under professional
obligations not to fight. But the more
ashamed he grew, the more shameful his last
misdeed seemed likely to appear in the eyes of
others, and the more necessary it became to
shroud himself in a sort of cloak of tacit scorn
of everybody, and be sulky in as dignified a
way as came easily.

The rustle of a silk dress was heard, and
Mrs. Bushell stood in the doorway, by her
husband's side. At the bare sidit of his
mother young Joe recognised the hopelessness
of any defence, and threw himself upon
the sofa.

What's the matter? ' asked Mrs. Bushell.

Your son,' said the Eeverend Paul Screed,
removing the handkerchief, ' has answered the
solemn word of warning you desired me to address
to him by blows.'

Xot blows,' said the culprit from the sofa,
hardening himself, ' a blow.'

I do not know,' said the minister, ' whether
I received one blow or more. I am still a little
shaken by his violence.'

Joseph,' said Lies. Bushell, advancing, 'leave
this house, and never come back to it again.'

Very well,' said the young man, rising.
Even at that moment the mother's heart yearned
over him, but she must acquit herself of duty
first and be tender afterwards. She knew her
husband would interfere, and she never dreamed
that her only child would leave her, even though
she ordered him away.

Eot an' nonsense ! ' said the old man angrily.
If it's anybody's business to order my son out
o' my house, it's mine. Fair play's a jewel.
Joe's done wrong, but we do' know ' — (meaning
don't know ') — ' the rights orchis business yet.
Now, parson, it's your turn. Say thy say.'

Mr. Screed answered nothing, and Mrs.
Bushell, still confident in her husband's interference,
turned again upon her son.

Leave the house, Joseph.'

VOL. I. D

Very well,' said young Joe again, and
passing from the room went upstairs, and began
to pack his belongings together. Meanwhile
the minister told his story, and from his own
point of view told it fairly.

Mr. Banks,' said Mrs. Bushell, ' ain't a
godly person, but I've known Dinah ever since
her was a baby, an' her's as good a gell as ever
lived, I believe. I've seen as Joe an' her was
fond of each other, an' I always thought something'
'ud come of it.'

Cuss it all, passion,' said old Joe in great
heat, ' why shouldn't the lad kiss his sweetheart,
an' why should yo' goo and black her character
to him ? '

'I did my duty,' said Mr. Screed with
dignity.

Forgiveness is a Christian duty,' said Mrs.
Bushell, alarmed by the sounds which came
from above, where young Joe was vigorously
cording a box. 'I needn't tell you that, sir.
But Joseph shall beg your pardon on his bended
knees, or out of this house he goes.'

'I am willing to accept his apology,' said

the Eeverend Paul-with a real effort towards
charity, which cost him dear.

]airs. Bushell mounted the stairs and entered
her son's bedroom. He was hastily searching
the pockets of an old light overcoat, and when
his mother entered he threw the garment upon
the bed, where it lay ^vith all its pockets turned
inside out. Whatever he searched for was not
found, for he turned, and, disregarding his
mother's presence, took a hasty look through a
number of documents — old letters, scraps of
newspapers and what not — in an open drawer,
and then, as if putting off the search to a more
convenient moment, tumbled the papers loosely
together into a portmanteau which he strapped
and locked. His mother watched him with a
cold demeanour which belied the longing of
her heart.

Joseph ! ' she said harshly, yearning over
him.

'Yes, mother,' said he, looking up for a
minute.

Come downstairs an' beg Mr. Screed's
pardon, or out o' this house you go.'

D 2

Beg his pardon for insulting me ! ' said
young Joe bitterly. ' No, thank you, mother.
As for leaving the house, I've been ready and
willing to do that this many a day. It's been
none too happy a home for me, with its parsons
and prayer-meetings.'

Where do you think you're going ? ' asked
Mrs. Bushell severely, wounded by this last
allusion. ' A wise son maketh a glad father,
but he that is foolish despise his mother.
He that refuse th instruction despise his
own soul, but he that heareth reproof getteth
understanding. You come down and beg
Mr. Screed's pardon, or out o' this house
you go.'

Very well, mother,' said young Joe ; and
Mrs. Bushell, her mission having failed, went
downstairs again.

Joseph,' she said, addressing her husband,
I can do nothing' with him. Will you speak
to him?'

The old man called his son from the foot of
the stairs, and Joe came down with a box on
his shoulder and a portmanteau in his hand.

He set them down outside the parlour door,
and stood there sulkily.

Tve heard. this thing through o' one side,'
said old Joe, striving to deal honestly with the
case. ' What ha' you got to say ? '

I have said all that I have to say,' young
Joe answered. ' He was insolent, and I lost
my temper. I told him once that he was my
father's guest, and that I had no right to
quarrel with him. I bade him good afternoon,
but he stopped me, and was more insolent than
ever.'

'Xow, look here, Joseph,' said the old man:
you ask llv. Screed's pardon, and tak' them
things upstairs again, and be a good lad, and
let's hear no more about it'

I wouldn't forgive Mr. Screed,' said young
Joe, feeling himself to be a very plucky martyr
now, ' if he asked my pardon fifty times, and
that I should apologise to him is out of the
question.'

Then leave the house,' said Mrs. Bushell,
still belying herself and thinking it righteous todo
so.

I can send for these, I suppose ? ' said
young Joe, indicating the chest and the portmanteau.
'Good-bye, father. Good-bye,
mother. When next you feel inclined to be
insolent, sir, remember the deserved chastisement
you once met with at my hands.'

With that final defiance, young Joe was
gone. He was very miserable, and very much
ashamed ; but there was not one of the three
who remained behind who did not confess that
he had at least a shadow of right on his side.
Indeed, the whole of this poor quarrel was conducted
by people who were ashamed of their
part in it. The Eeverend Paul felt that he had
gone further with the lad than duty impelled
him. The mother repented of her cruel ultimatum,
and cried to think she had not used
softer means. The father was angry with himself
for having allowed young Joe to go. The
lad himself, as we have seen already, was
heartily ashamed. Of course each member of
the quartette would have fought the quarrel
through again, rather than admit just then a
shade of wrong on his or her own side.

Young Joe could scarcely analyse Ms sensations
at that time. He was very fond of his
father and very proud of him, in spite of an
education which had done much to weaken all
family ties. For his mother he had an affection
much less keen. There had never been
any sympathy between them, so far as young
Joe knew; and although his negative knowledge
was necessarily incomplete, it was a
barrier more than sufficient against love's
progress. I regret that we shall see but little
of that hard old Calvinist, for to one who knew
her well she was a woman well worth knowing.
She had more affection in her than anybody
gave her credit for, and she loved her only
child with so passionate a tenderness that she
prayed every night and morning that she might
not make an ' idol ' of him. In this wise she
succeeded in disguising her love so perfectly
that yoimg Joe had grown up in the belief that
his very presence was distasteful to her.

So, with a sore heart and with some
burdens of conscience, the young fellow
dawdled away from the house in which he was

born, resolved never to return to it. The
future looked blank enough, for he had no
business or profession, and had discovered in
himself no special aptitudes which were likely
to be profitable to him. He had ten pounds
in his pocket, and might be able, perhaps, on
his personal possessions of jewelry and whatnot,
to realise fifty. The prospect was altogether
dreary, and in spite of his resolve not to
return, he was conscious of a very definite
longing that his father would run after him and
take forcible possession of him by ear or
shoulder. He would willingly have gone back
even ignominiously — so that the ignominy
had not seemed voluntary. But nobody ran
after him ; no restraining voice called him ;
and young Joe went his way to shame and
sorrow, as many a thousand worse and better
men have gone before him ; for the want of
one wise courage in himself, or, failing that,
one word of friendly resolution from outside
him.

There was nothing to invite or encourage
him in the blank Sabbath street, where one cur

lay ill the sunshine snapping at the flies.
Young Joe had upon him an impulse to kick
the cur, but restrained himself, and went miserably
and moodily along. It was counted
highly improper and even immoral to smoke in
the streets on Sunday in that quarter of the
world ; but Joe, feeling that he was leaving the
town and could afford to despise its edict, lit a
cigar and hardened himself. He chose a way
which led him across certain mournful
meadows, where the grass was poisoned by the
exhalations of a chemical factory near at hand,
and rambled on through frowsy verdure until
he reached a canal. The artificial hills rose
high on each side of the cutting, and on one
side ran clean into the water, wooded to the
very edge. On the other, the towing-path was
green except for one little streak. The water
was without motion, or the place might have
passed for an unusually favourable scrap of
English river scenery. The artificial bluffs
were bold and precipitous, and they had the
merit of hiding the defaced country which lay
beyond them. Up and down the towing-path

young Joe wandered with the air of a man who
has appointed a rendezvous. He waited for
perhaps an hour, when round the corner of the
farthest whiff came a figure in fluttering white
muslin and a straw hat. His back was turned,
and the new-comer, with innocent mirthful
mischief in her face ran tiptoe along the sward,
and clapped both hands across his eyes.

Guess who it is,' said the new-comer
blithely.'

Young Joe returned no answer. The expression
in the girl's face changed. She moved
her hands, and saw — what she had only felt
before — that they were wet with tears. She
threw one arm around his neck, and, seeking
his left hand with hers, asked with tender
solicitude,

'What is it, Joe, dears What's the
matter ? '

Young Joe, facing about, kissed her, and
took both her hands in his. The tears still
glistened on the lashes over his gloomy eyes,
and the girl regarded him with a look of fear
and anxiety.

I have bad news for you, Dinah,' said
young Joe at last. ' I am turned out of house
and home, and I shall have to go away somewhere
and face the world.'

Turned out of house and home ? ' questioned
Dinah, with brown frightened eyes wide
open.

Turned out of house and home,' young
Joe repeated sombrely. ' But don't be afraid,
Dinah. I shall be able to take care of myself
and you. I shall cast about for something todo,
and I'll work my fingers to the bone rather
than see you want: anything.'

Turned away from home ? 'Dinah again
asked. ' Who turned you away ? '

Joe related the incidents of the afternoon,
with some little natural bias.

And you see, dear, there's nothing for it
but to go away and ' — with a bitter little
laugh — ' and seek my fortune.'

But, Joe,' said Dinah, ' you hadn't ought
to have hit him, and him a middle-aged man.
Wouldn't it be better, darling, to go back and
say as you was sorry ? '

'Good heaven, Dinah!' said young Joe,
don't say hadrit ought. How can I go back
and say I'm sorry ? I'm not sorry ; and even
if I were, I couldn't go back and say so, to
have them think I was afraid to face the
world.'

Dinah stood grave and thoughtful for a
minute, and then said,

I suppose I mustn't tell father as we're
a-going?'

My darling,' said young Joe, ' you mustn't
think of coming with me. Not at first, you
know. I must go away and get something todo,
and make a home for you. We can't runaway
like two babes in the wood, in that
fashion. It won't be long, Dinah. Don't cry,
my darling, don't cry. We shan't be long
apart. I'll take care of that.'

'I don't see any use,' said Dinah, sitting
disconsolately on the side of the spoil-bank and
wiping her eyes with her little muslin apron —
I don't see any use in being married if a wife
can't go along with her husband when he's
turned out of house an' home, and hasn't got

anywhere to go to. Joe, you can't leave me
behind — you can't be so cruel. No, Joe, no,
you couldn't have the heart to leave me.'

Joe sat down beside her on the grass-grown
bank and soothed her, feeling himself very
guilty all the while. Dinah refused to be
comforted, and yet found his proffered comfort
pleasant. But by-and-by a certain coquettish
little petulance took the place of grief, and
young Joe knew that he had half won his
cause, which he admitted was a poor one to
win.

Don't tell me, Joe,' said pretty Dinah, as
yoiu- folks are going to drive you away for
always — I know better. If you take 'em at
their word, and stay away a week, they'll be
glad to have you back again.'

Young Joe recognised the truth of this
observation, but it played such havoc with the
heroics of the case that he resented it and
pooh-poohed it with a sombre gloom.

It isn't very kind of you, Dinah,' said Joe,
glad to appear as the injured person of the two
to make light of such a serious matter. And

I would not lower myself in my own esteem
by begging myself back again for anything the
world could give me. I couldn't do it, darling,
even for your sake. No, I'll work for you and
struggle for you, but I won't do a mean thing,
even for you.'

He said ' even for you ' so tenderly, and
there was such an obvious self-accusation in
him when he said it, that the girl threw her
arms about his neck and kissed him.

I know you're noble an' 'high spirited, my
dear,' she said, ' and I shall never say a Avoid
to ask you to be nothing else for me. No, nota
word, Joe. And I've been a very thankless
girl, Joe, to make believe as it was my trouble,
when it was yours all the time. Why, dear
me ! it's no great matter for me to go on living'
at home with my father an' mother, till you
can afford to send for me, is it, Joe? No,
darling', I shan't fret no more about myself

He read the devotion and the affection in her
heart, and had a dim notion that he could not
be altogether a bad fellow, since she gave him
such unstinted love. It stirred a vague comfort

in him and strengthened him to approve of
himself. He boiled his conscience into quiet,
therefore, and began to take quite a high tone
with it.

It's perhaps a good thing, after all,' he
said. ' A man ought not to be dependent upon
anybody. He ought to be able to take care of
himself And I shall go into the "world and
fight for you, Dinah, and that will help me.

And when I have made a place for you '

He smiled in appreciation of the Avork already
done — in fancy.

Don't mind about its being a very fine
place at first, dear,' said Dinah, nesting to him
and admiring him with all her heart — his
courage, his misfortune, his love.

Not too fine a place at first,' said Joe, ' but
later on a palace of a place.'

He said it lightly, and she laughed at the
badinage, but in a moment they were grave
again. It was a bitter business, after all.
When the time for parting came, Joe strained
her to his breast, and she hung about him
sobbing.

Go,' she said, struggling to be brave.
Go, an' God bless you, my own dear, dear,
ever dearest Joe

At this courageous sorrow young Joe
melted.

Yes,' he said, * I will go. I'll go home
and beg Screed's pardon, and I'll — I'll tell my
father that we're married, Dinah, and if he
likes to cut up rough about it he can, but I
can at least feel then that I've acted like a man,
and not like a coward. And if he likes to send me
away then, I can work with a clear conscience,
and I shall know that I've done my duty.'

Now, women have always been puzzles tome,
and I understand very little of them, but I
have noticed in them one consistent peculiarity.
If you once succeed in awaking in a woman
that sense of protecting strength and tenderness
which the most helpless of women are capable
of feeling over even the most helpful of men, she
will protect you, at the cost of serious wounds,
from the merest scratch of any little thorn.
Dinah would have none of this wholesome and
honest sacrifice for her sake.

^o,' she said, fairly yearning over him and
worshipping hun for this bare promise of bare
justice. ' Don't vex him with any talk about
me yet, my dear. Why, you know, darling,'
she went on, strangling her own hopes with the
bowstring her sultan had sent her a month before,
' that if you hadn't known as it *ud vex
him, you'd ha' told him of it long ago. And
now you want to tell him when he's vexed
a ready.'

I don't care,' said Joe, feeling heroic.
He can't do anything worse than he has done.
I'll do the right thing.'

But Dinah clung to hoi.

No,' she said. ' You shan't ruin yourself
for me, Joe.' And she clung to her point with
such vehemence that Joe yielded, and had all
the satisfaction of seeming heroic without incurring
any danger — a joy which I have myself
experienced.

They kissed and embraced again, and Joe
wiped her eyes, and promised brokenly to write
often.

You're not a-going far away, my darn',

VOL. I. E

are you ? ' said Dinah, trying to be brave
again.

No, dear, no,' said he in answer ; ' not
far.'

And, Joe, darling,' she said, after a tearful
pause, relieved by many sad kisses, ' will you
let me keep my marriage lines ? '

She whispered the question at his ear, and
he bent over tenderly the while.

Yes, yes, my dear,' he answered ; ' I meant
to bring them to you this afternoon, but I was
in such a hurry. They are packed up in my
portmanteau, but I will send them to you.'

You don't mind my skin' for 'em, do you,
Joe.'

I was wrong all through,' he said ; ' we
ought to have been married openly. But I
shall do you justice, Dinah. You know that,
don't you ? '

And so, with protestations, and caresses,
and hopes, and with some repentance on his
side, they parted. Joe combed the bank again,
and waved adieu from the top. She answered
with a motion of the hand, and he was gone.

Chapter ni.

Mrs. Bushell did what she could to atone
to the minister for the terrible insult which had
been put upon him by her son. Old Joe sat
awhile and smoked in silence, and, being greatly
exercised by the whole business, drank rather
more whisky and water than was good for him.
Finally a streak of light^appeared, and he went,
a little flushed, towards it. It led him for a
while by the road young Joe had taken an
hour or two before, but he stopped short of
the mangy meadow and sounded a heavy rat-tat
at the door of a smart looking house
which stood a little back from the lane.
A neat servant-maid responded to this
summons.

Is Brother George in ? ' asked the old
man.

s2

LIBRARY

Yes, sir,' said the damsel, and led the way
into a gaudily furnished parlour, where in black
broadcloth sat an intensely respectable man in
an armchair by the fireplace.

Joe-ziph,' said the intensely respectable
man, dividing the name into two balanced
syllables, ' how are you ? '

George,' said old Joe, seating himself, ' I'm
in a bit o' trouble.'

'You don't say so, Joe-ziph,' said the
respectable man, with a wooden want of interest.


Yis,' said old Joe, rubbing his grey hair
with an enormous palm. ' I'm in a peck o'
trouble. My Eebecca has been an' ordered my
Joe out o' my house, an' he's took her at a
word, an' he's gone.'

Dear me,' said Brother George, as woodenly
as before.

Yes,' said old Joe again, ' he's took her at
a word, an' he's gone.'

What did her order him off for ? ' asked
Brother George.

Old Joe told the story, with rough-hewn

brevity, and his brother nodded now and then
to signify attention. In point of fact, it interested
him more than it seemed to do. He
was pretty nearly as wooden as he looked, but
he had a very remarkable eye for the main
chance. He saw money with an eye at once
telescopic and microscopic, and he scented it,
or seemed to scent it, as a sleuth-hound scents
his game. Joe Bushell had made his money
by a remarkably profitable patent, was worth a
quarter of a million if a penny, and lived on
less than a twentieth part of his income. George
had borrowed from his brother to start life as a
charter-master, had worked hard and lived hard,
and screwed down all under him to the uttermost
farthing, and, having made his money
chiefly by hard-fixedness, was hated by his
work people, and knew it, and rather rejoiced
in it than otherwise, as being in some sense a
tribute to his business capacity. He was a
mean and grudging creature, with no instinct
of active dishonesty. He had a dull, slow,
wooden dislike of young Joe, because young
Joe would one day inherit old Joe's fortune.

Not that George had ever had a hope of it himself,
but he grudged wealth to anybody, and
could have nursed a spite against the very walls
of a bank's strong-room for holding so much
money. And now for the first time in his life
dawned upon him some dim fancy, scarcely a
hope, that he might handle Brother Joseph's
money as his own some day. It was that dim
fancy which made old Joe's story interesting to
him.

Stow,' said the father, when his narrative
was finished, ' what I want thee to do, George,
is just this. Thee go an' find Joe, an' fetch him
hum. Tek no sort o' denial. He can stop wi'
thee a day or two, an' then, when it's blowed
over wi' Eebecca, he can come back to me.
Dost see ? '

Ah,' said Brother George, ' I see.' And
he saw more than he confessed to seeing. He
intended no wrong to anybody, but was it likely
that young Joe would listen to his solicitations ?
He thought not. And if that misguided young
man declined to listen, might not his absence
become a source of profit to his uncle ? ' Where

is he ? ' the imcle asked, after giving these reflections
time to form.

Well, thee seest,' said old Joe, nibbing his
head perplexedly, ' we do' rightly know wheel
he is. But he's bound to send for his luggage

Ah,' said Brother George again, ' / see.'

I think,' old Joe resumed, ' as he's likely
to send for it to-night. Our Joe's allays in a
bit of a hurry, an' does everything' hot-foot.'

Then,' said George, ' I'd better come upto
your place, eh ? '

Just what I wanted,' answered old Joe ;
and the two set out together. ' Not a word to
the missis, mind.' George nodded in reply,
turning over in that stiff-jointed mind of his the
question — Shall I break or keep that promise ?
Which is likelier to pay ? He would not have
robbed young Joe — he would not have robbed
anybody. Theft was ' agen the law.' But
although any plain and straightforward method
of transferring a neighbour's coin to his pouch
was a thing to be reprehended, the construction
of any crooked scheme for that purpose was
praiseworthy, and the carriage of the same to

triumphant effect was a thing to be proud of.
In short, Brother George was a diplomatist, and
had some personal advantages in the diplomatic
way — singular as that statement may appear.
He could lie, for instance, with a stolidity which
defied scrutiny. Practice had done much for
him, but the first great gift was Nature's. He
was ' inscrutable ' enough to have realised a
Tory journalist's idea of a prime minister. His
respectable countenance, clean-shaven but for
its respectable tufts of grey whisker, was scarcely
more mobile than a mask. Since he never lied
apart from strict necessity, he was commonly
regarded as a veracious man. He is not the
scoundrel of this story — which, indeed, scarcely
aspires to the portraiture of a real rascal — and
nobody who knew him thought of him as being
anything but a very respectable self-made man,
who did unusual credit to his original station
in life. The remarkable woodenness of his
manner, and a certain solemn drawl he had,
were mainly responsible for the family belief
in his wisdom. He was the final authority on
family affairs.

The Reverend Paul had left the house when
the brothers reached it. Mrs. Bushell was
sitting in the kitchen with a big Bible before
her, earnestly and seemingly struggling after
comfort in the utterances of Habakkuk. There
are people who find Christian philosophies in
Solomon's Song and suck satisfaction out of
Ecclesiastes ; and Mrs. Bushell was of them.
But at this sorrowful hour, a philippic against
the Chaldeans, ' that bitter and hasty nation,'
had little power to soothe.

Brother George,' she said, as that respectable
person entered, ' has Joseph been a-asking
your advice ? '

'Rebecker,' Brother George replied with
weighty solemnity, ' far be it from me to deny
any thin' as is true. That's what Joe-ziph
come to see me for, as far as I can see.'

Why,' read Mrs. Bushell with her finger
tracking the denouncing lines in the great
Bible, ' why dost thou show me iniquity, and
cause me to behold grievance ? for spoiling and
violence are before me ; and there are that
raise up strife and contention. Therefore the

law is slacked and judgment doth never go
forth ; for the wicked doth compass about the
righteous ; therefore wrong judgment proceeded.'


Well, well, Eebecker,' said Brother George
with a propitiatory accent, ' boys will be boys,
you know, an' allays was.'

They wouldn't he boys if they wasn't,' said
old Joe, with a touch of the local humour.

Joseph ! ' said Mrs. Bushell warningly.

Becky, my gell ! ' said old Joe, leaning
above her chair and laying a heavy hand upon
her shoulder.

She felt the appeal thus conveyed, for she
was by nature a woman of much tenderness.
But she only straightened herself, and laid her
finger once more upon the warning text.

'There's my guide, Joseph,' she made
answer, when she could trust her voice, for she
was sore disturbed, and her ' worldly longings,'
as she called them, moved strongly in her
heart.

Old Joe moved away from the back of her
chair, and Brother George sat down with an air

of wisdom on him, and looked as one who is
prepared to proffer counsel. There was silence
for a time ; then Mrs. Bushell tinned her head
away and asked,

What do you advise, Brother George ? '

'Well,' said Brother George, venting an
elaborate and prolonged wink upon old Joe, ' I
should advise as nothing should be done, not to
say precipitate.'

Yes,' said old Joe, nodding at his brother,
give him a day or two, an' he'll come round.'

Joseph,' said Mrs. Bushell, ^vith unfortunate
solemnity, ' if you look for any healing' of this
breach apart from this repentance, you will wait
in vain. If you mean as I shall come round,
you are mistaken. In this case, Joseph, there
is duty to be done, an' I've spoke my last word
already.'

Joe shook his head at Brother George
mournfully, and George shook his head in
answer. Matters were growing rather bright
for Brother George, and if the brightness were
only nebulous as yet, it might reveal things
pleasant to look at by-and-by. Notwithstanding

this cheerful inward knowledge, however,
George looked upon his brother with a solemn
countenance. He would fain have appealed
seriously to his sister-in-law's forbearance, and
so have drawn from her a more emphatic and
forcible denial of her own desires, but he was
afraid of that experiment.

Becky,' said old Joe, being perhaps a little
more accessible to emotion at that moment than
he commonly was, ' the lad was hard put on.
The parson go's an' says things to him about
his sweetheart, an' it stands to reason as Joe got
humped at it. He axed me, Becky, afore you
come into the room, what I'd ha' done if any
mon had said things to me about yo' afore we
got married. It wouldn't ha' made much differ
to me, I think,' said old Joe, driving one great
hand into the palm of the other, ' who it was as
said it. I'd ha ' floored him, if he'd ha' killed
me the next minute.'

Brother George nodded gloomily in assent
to this, for it seemed to him an unanswerable
argument in young Joe's favour. But Mrs.
Bushell held firm.

I've spoke my last word, Joseph. He
struck a minister o' God's word, in this own
father's house, of a Sunday ; an' if that ain't
worth saying' " I'm sorry for," I've got no more
to say.'

Brother George nodded again in acquiesence,
for this view of the case also seemed
unanswerable.

Give the lad time,' urged old Joe.

Let him tak' his own time, Joseph,' said the
mother staunchly. ' When he's tired o' the husks
o' the Prodigal, he'll come back again. But
I fear he'll sup sorrow by spoonfuls i' the way.'

She left the room, and old Joe, with a
troubled face, set tobacco and a glass of whisky
before his brother. The pair sat in gloomy
silence for a while, when a knock came to the
door. Old Joe answered this summons.

Who's their ? ' he asked.

Well,' said a voice from the dark outside,
as fur as my apicius go's, it's a young feller o*
the name o' Bower.'

Come in, William,' said old Joe in a shaky
voice. ' What be you come for ? '

Why, your son's at the Dudley Arms said
Mr. Bowker, entering the kitchen, ' an' he's sent
me up here t' ax for his box. He's a-going' into
Brummagem to-night, he says, an' on to
London i' the morning.'

Goo an' say a word to him, George,' said
the father. 'Don't let the lad go further 'n
Brummagem. Mak' him send word to you
wheel he is, when he gets their, an' we'll tek
care on him. But, George, don't go to let him
know as I ain't angry wi' him. Mind that.
Do it all as if it was coming' from yourself like.
D'ye see ? '

I see,' said Brother George. Could anything
have been designed to play better into
the hands of a respectable man who desired to
secure an advantage and was afraid of a crime ?
He would not in this case have even the
shadow of a lie upon his conscience. All that
was to be done was to tell the truth, and obey
instructions — in breaking them. Mrs. Bushell,
without an apology, was implacable, and her
husband wished to have it supposed that he
also was very angry. George knew very well

that his nephew would tender no apology just
then, and began to look complacently on the
promise of the future.

Young Joe sat moody and alone in the
smoke-room of the Dudley Arms, awaiting the
return of his emissary, when Uncle George
entered, and with a solemn aspect took a seat
before him.

This is a bad job, Joe-ziph,' said he,
shaking his head. ' I've heard all about it
from your mother and father. I don't say as
you was in the wrong, not to say altogether,
but you know as it was a dreadful tiling to doa
dreadful thing. But look thee here, my
lad,' he continued, with a wooden assumption
of geniality which went, howsoever unreal it
might be, clean to the lad's sore heart, ' blood's
thicker than water, an' when all's said an' done
you're my never and I'm your uncle. Now,
what d'ye mean to do ? They'd hard on you
at home, fearful hard.'

I shall go out and face the world,' said
young Joe. ' I'm not afraid ! '

Of course you ain't, a fine-built young

fellow like you ! It ain't likely as you would
be. But look here, my lad — you can't face
the world on nothing. Can you, now ? '

I have something to begin wither said Joe
in answer. ' I am not altogether without
money. And then, I have a little owing to
me

'Ah, dear me. Well. I can see as you re
just as hot-foot as your father and mother!
But, come now, wheel do you think o' going'
to!'

I'd go to America,' said young Joe, ' if I
only had the chance.'

Merrily ? ' echoed Uncle George. ' It's a
long way there.'

The longer the better,' said Joe bitterly.

No, no, Joseph,' said Uncle George.
Don't say that. But if you're bent on it,
why, I . No, no, Joseph, don't think on it.'

Yes,' said Joe, ' I'll do it. I'll do it if I
work my passage out. There's room for a
man to move in, in America.'

'Don't you talk nonsense,' said Uncle
George.

By Jove ! ' quoth young Joe, rising, and
feeling already the glow of a successful explorer,
' I'll show you whether or not I'm
talking nonsense. I tell you, sir, I'U do it, and
I will;

Pooh ! ' said Uncle George ; ' you ain't
going to work your passage out. Not while
you've got a uncle as can put his hand in his
pocket to help you. No, no, Joseph.'

You're very kind, uncle,' said Joe, ' but I
can't accept any help from you.' And he
wondered ' why did I never see what a good
fellow Uncle George is until now ? '

Wait here a bit,' said the benevolent
uncle, and with that arose, and left the room
with stage stealth. When he returned, he
bore with him a sheet of letter-paper and an
inkstand. He sat down in silence, and wrote
in a slow and laboured manner. Then he produced
a pocket-book, from which, after an
intricate search, he drew a crumpled receipt-stamp.
Gazing hard at Joe, he moistened this
with his tongue, affixed it to the paper, and

VOL. I. F

then, squaring his elbows, he set his head down
sideways to the table, and laboriously signed
the document. Joe watched him, not knowing
what all this might mean, until the sheet, carefully
dried before the fire, was placed in his
own hands. He read it with a swift moistening
of the eyes, less at the gift than at the kindness
which dictated it.

Thank you, uncle,' said young Joe. ' God
bless you for your goodness. You are the
only friend I have.'

'If they snowed,' said his only friend
truthfully, ' as I'd helped you i' this way,
they'd never forgive me. But Wherever you
goo, Joseph, remember as you've got a friend
in me. Allays write to me, my lad ; allays
write to me.'

Therewith the benevolent uncle squeezed
his nephew's hand and left him. Young Joe
sat with his elbows on the table, and looked
with new-born affection and gratitude after
him. Why had he never understood Uncle
George until now ?

A dear good fellow ! ' he said aloud in his
enthusiasm ; ' a most kindly, generous fellow ! '

And with tears of gratitude hot in his eyes,
he folded up his uncle's cheque for a hundred
pounds.

p2

CHAPTEE IV.

Young Joe, his heart still warmed by his
uncle's generosity, sat at the side of the bed in
his room at the Dudley Armes that Sunday
night, and surveyed the situation. Starting in
this well-provided way, it did not seem easy to
fail in the world. Practically, as everybody
knows, there is an end to the productive
powers of a hundred pounds, but, for all that, a
hundred pounds is a good round sum for a
start in the world, and young Joe saw already
in fancy his fortune made.

'And ril make poor little Dinah happy
anyhow,' he thought. She haunted him, and
her memory filled him with a keen and
poignant remorse. ^ The poor child,' he said
to himself, ' must have her marriage lines.'
With that he unstrapped his portmanteau,

tumbled out its disorderly papers ou the carpet,
and set to work to search for the certificate of
the marriage between Joseph Bushell, bachelor,
and Dinah Banks, spinster. First, he made a
hasty and confident grope amongst the papers ;
next, with a little shade of perplexity on his
face, he took a more careful search ; and
finally, having separately examined every scrap,
turned out his pockets, unlocked his chest and
searched through its contents, and still met
with no success, he sat down on the lid of the
box in the midst of his tumbled belongings and
clawed his hair with vexation.

Confound it all ! ' said Toe. ' The thing's
somewhere here, I'm sure. I must look for it
by daylight.' With this promise by way of
consolation for almost certain loss, he undressed
and got into bed. He had but a poor night of
it, for Dinah's appealing face was always before
him, and he felt alternately base and heroic ashe
thought of his encounter ^\\\\\ the minister.
The candle burned down and went out, with
the result particularised in the Honourable Mr.
Sucklethumbkin's account of a public execution.

Then the moonlight sent into the room a beam
which travelled very, very slowly across the
carpet, and rose very slowly up the fireplace,
and when Joe had tossed about for long ages,
reached the mirror, and crept along the wall,
and slid slowly towards the window, as its
brightness faded and died. Then the swallows
who built beneath the roof-pipes began to
chirrup, and the window glimmered grey. Joe
pulled up the blind and lighted a cigar, and
looked a last look on the familiar High Street :
a last conscious look, at least, for always when
Memory brought her budget of pictures to him
thereafter, she brought that view, with the grey
desolate daylight broadening on the closed
shutters of the shops, and he heard distinctly,
many a time, by Memory's magic, the stately
step of the peeler — ' the blue-robed guardian
of the city streets,' as a minor poet called him
once upon a time — patrolling the silent highway.


I — the present writer — have found it necessary,
for one reason or another, to face the
world anew so often, and under such varying

circumstances, that I have almost worn out the
sensations attendant on the process. But striving,
as a faithful chronicler should strive, to
project myself into young Joe's personality, I
succeed chiefly in calling to mind my first impressions
of that melancholy yet inspiriting
business. I recall the heartache and the sense
of freedom — the regrets for past folly and the
promises of amendment so devoutly sworn — the
dear regard for parted friends, the hope to
meet again, the determination to return triumphant.


All these held sway in the young fellow's
heart. But for Uncle George's news of the
attitude of father and mother, he could willingly
have gone home again to say good-bye, not
without hope of no good-bye being said.
Shame pulled him both ways, now homewards,
now abroad. After all, going back was out of
the question. He packed carefully, purposing
to go once more through the papers, but when
he came to them he said, without being quite
sure of the motive which moved him, ' 111 look
into them on the way and so thrust them anew

into his portmanteau, and waited drearily for
some sign of life in the hotel.

At the first sound of opening doors he rang
his bell, and demanded of Boots, who came
unkempt and sleepy, the time-table for London.
The railway had not reached the outlying
Black Country towns at this time, but coaches
ran through most of them to the great New
Street station in Birmingham, a marvel of art,
whose vast glass roof was in those days, as I
can just remember, an object of unfading
wonder to the populace. The coach would
start in time to catch the mid day train, and
there were four hours to wait. He went downstairs
and sat alone in the dismal coffee-room,
and being presently broken in upon by a
damsel in curl-papers, asked for breakfast, and
in an hour's time attacked with languid appetite
a cindery dish of eggs and bacon, and investigated
a funereal-looking Britannia metal urn
containing a dark-coloured semi-liquid tepid
concoction announced by the curl-papered
damsel as coffee. After this he called dejectedly
for his bill, ordered Boots to send on his

luggage by the coach in time for the up-train,
and set out to walk. His spirits rose as he
went along the road. Town seems m danger
of meeting town to-day, and some nov alive
may live to see a vaster London join its
scattered parts in the middle of England, forming
one solid and prodigious city. But there
were fair spaces of field and park about the
central town when Joe walked towards it, and
here and there a rabbit frolicked across his
path, and once he stood still to watch a weasel
shoot across the road from hedge to hedge,
where a grey rabbit had run a second before.
The mellow ousel fluted in the elm,' colts
pushed their inquiring heads over the gates
which held them from the road, the sun shone
clear, the wind blew warm. Joe meant no
wrong to any human creature. Why should
trouble weigh upon him ? He pegged on, with
snatches of song on his mind, and high resolve
in his heart. There was gold in California.
Jim Brooks, the High Street tailor's son, had
found a nugget weighing two hundred ounces.
Gold-digging was the readiest way to wealth

the world had seen, and many a man had
prospered at it — Why not he ? The great
Henry Mussels songs were in vogue, and
young Joe sang jolly back to the lark and
throstle : —

Pull away, cheerily,

Not slow or wearily,
Shifting the cradle, boys, fast to and fro ;

Working your hand about,

Shifting the sand about.
Seeking for treasures that lie hid below.

And so on. The verse was not written in the
highest possible style of art, but it might be
interesting to know how many young fellows
went out of England with that doggerel in
their ears and on their tongues. Joe was only
one out of many who made it a part of the
Litany sung at Gold's great shrine.

He cashed Uncle George's cheque at
Lloyd's bank, and drew the hundred pounds in
sovereigns, influenced, 1 fancy, by those gold-digging
visions. Paper is but a poor medium
between riches and poverty, after all. You
may be able to translate it into gold, but it has
not gold's magic, and can exert but little of

gold's charm. I am nothing of a money-lover,
but I do yet care somewhat for the roimd rig
of minted cold, and find a something sibilant in
the rustle of bank paper, as though that rustle
whispered, ' Soon shall I fly.' With the hard
gold in a lump in his inner breast-pocket, tied
in a chamois leather bag, Joe wandered down
to the station and awaited the arrival of the
coach. By some accident, for the days were
leisurely, and people gave themselves plenty of
time for most things, the sound of Old Tom's
horn came tooting into New Street a quarter
of an hour beyond its usual time, and the train
was already puffing to be gone. Joe had
secured his ticket, and now fell upon his
luggage, called a porter, impetuously bade him
get these things into the London train, saw
them hurriedly labelled, took his seat just intime,
and was swallowed up by the darkness
of the tunnel before he had looked round
him to observe his fellow-passengers. Light,
breaking in anew, revealed the florid countenance
of Mr. Sydney Cheston, who held out his
hand with a loud greeting. Joe took it, a

little shamefacedly, but his friend was determined
to make light of the affair of the previous
day, and was even ostentatiously hearty.
At Coventry they were left alone, and, having
bribed the guard with half-a-crown (after the
manner of young British gentlemen before
Brindled Sheridan's grandson gave us the good
gift of smoking-carriages), they began to
smoke at a great rate ; and it befell that in the
course of the journey Joe opened his heart,
and, having first apologised once more, went
on ; —

I'm in a deuce of a mess, old fellow. To
tell the truth, I was in a wretched bad temper
all day yesterday, or I should never have behaved
as I did to you '

Don't say a word about it,' Cheston said ;
I didn't mean to hurt you, but it was my
fault.' ,

Then the young men shook hands, and Joe
went on again : —

When I got home there was a parson
there. He's not a bad fellow for a parson, and
I'm very sorry for what happened, but I was

ia an infernal temper, and lie insulted me, and
was horribly trying and annoying, and all that
sort of thing ; and, gad, sir, I knocked him
down !'

Cheston stared hard at Joe and burst out
laughing.

What a fire-eater you are, Bushell,' said
he. ' Excommunication, you know. That
sort of thing.'

He was a Nonconformist parson,' said Joe
guiltily, ' and really, in cold blood, I've a great
deal of respect for him.'

The irreverent Cheston screamed with
laughter, and by-and-by asked breathlessly :

'You must have had a row about
it?'

A row ! ' said Joe ruefully. ' My mother
told me either to apologise or leave the house
and never go back again. I couldn't apologise.
It was impossible.'

'Especially under compulsion,' said Chester,
still laughing. ' If apologies were as
plenty as blackberries, I wouldn't give an
apology under compulsion. Well ? '

Well,' Joe returned, ' the long and the
short of it is, I'm on the way to America.'

No ! ' cried Cheston.

Yes,' said Joe stolidly, ' I'm on the way
to America.' Then cheering a little, * I shall
try my luck on the Pacific side, amongst the
nuggets.'

By George, you know,' said Cheston, surveying
him with an eye of admiration and
envy, 'I should like that. What a lark it
would be. No,' he added sorrowfully, ' the
governor wouldn't listen to it. In the words
of Whetstone, or something like 'em —

I should like for to follow you there,

And to toil where the gold-nuggets breed ;

But papa would be ready to swear,
And

Hang it all ! I'm full of these momentary
flashes of genius. Aha ! Got him ! —

And I know that I shouldn't succeed I

Besides, my son, I haven't got the rhino. But
are you really going ? When ? '

I'm really going, and I'm going now,' said
Joe. ' Now, at once.'

'I suppose,' said Clinton, striving purposely
to bury Joe's angry meanness of the day
before, ' I suppose you remember that I owe
you something ? Thirty odd pounds, I think
t is. If you'll come round with me, I'll let
you have it.'

Well,' said Joe, striving also to wipe out
that ugly remembrance, 'if you don't mind,
Cheston, I'd rather you kept it until I ask you
for it. I have enough to begin with, but I
might get hard up, and in that case it would
come in usefully. You be my banker, and
when I find myself in danger of wanting the
coin I'll send for it.'

Good,' said Cheston ; and the two began
to talk about California, and told each other
what they knew of it — which was mostly more
marvellous than true.

But what,' asked Cheston, ' induced you
to come to London? Isn't Liverpool the
nearest way ? '

Why, yes,' said Joe, ' I suppose it is.

But ' there he blushed a little, ' you see it's

altogether a little sudden for a fellow, and — and.

in point of fact, I never made up my mind
until I started to walk into town to catch this
train. London is the first place a man tends
to, you know, and it's a sort of axle whose
spokes radiate to everywhere.'

Well,' said Cheston, with that happy-unlucky
spirit which distinguishes the average
young Englishman, and perhaps helps to make
him what he is — the wonder of the world for
pluck, and dash, and enterprise — 'it doesn't
matter a great deal where a man goes, so long
as he has the right stuff in him, and sticks to
what he takes to.'

I'm not going to be beaten,' said young
Joe valiantly. ' Money isn't everything in the
world ; and if I can't get much of it, I must do
with little.'

Oh yes,' Cheston answered, ' and besides
that, your governor will turn up trumps
at the finish. You're the only son, I
think ? '

The only child,' said Joe, with a tremor
on his lip. 'I mustn't stay away too long,
after all, for they're both getting old, and a

little bit frail, and it wouldn't be nice to come
back and find them gone.'

You must write to 'em,' Cheston answered
cheerfully.

The conversation languished. Young Joe's
heart once mere began to fail him. He had
fairly started now, and going back was more
than ever impossible until he had at least done
something. With little further speech they
came to London, and went down to the
luggage-van together to secure their belongings.
Cheston 's came out first. Then, after a
long delay, came one of Joe's properties — his
chest. Then, after another pause, the van was
cleared, and there was no sign of his portmanteau.


'Must have been put out at Rugby, sir,'
said the porter in answer to the young man's
claim. 'We can send back for it. Where
shall we send it, sir ? '

Joe gave his address at an hotel in Covent
Garden, and was driven thither in a hackney
coach. Cheston accompanied him. and that
night they dined together. In the morning

VOL. I. G

Joe made inquiries as to the easiest and
quickest way to California, and learned little that
was likely to be of practical use to him, for he
had, no idea as to the right way of going about
the business, and wandered rather listlessly
about the docks, standing promiscuous treat to
nautical-looking men who appeared to have
nothing special on their hands. The best way,
he concluded, would be to get to New York,
and make a start for the gold fields thence.
The route to New York at least was clear.
Meantime, back to the hotel to see if the lost
portmanteau had arrived, and, in case it had,
to send the certificate of marriage to Dinah.
For it was characteristic of young Joe that, at
the moment at which the portmanteau was
known to have disappeared, he was resolved
that it held the certificate, though whilst it
remained in his possession he was most mournfully
sure it did not.

No portmanteau for him at the hotel. No
news of it at the railway station. No news of
it next day, and next day still no news. And
on the Thursday night the fast-sailing clipper

ship ' Orinoco ' dropped down the Thames, and
the portmanteau was finally left behind — and
with it the last hope of Dinah's peace ? Xot
so, young Joe inwardly declared. Cheston was
with him on the deck, and was prepared to goas
far as Greenwich, to keep heart and hope in
him at the start.

We'll have a bottle of champagne, Bushell,
for doch an dorcas,' says that young gentleman
cheerfully.

Joe accedes, and they go below, and with
laughter and clinking of glasses and good
wishes and high hope they drink to each other.

And here,' cried Cheston, ' here is the
Rose of the Midlands, coupled with the name
of the gentleman who will shortly return from
Tom Tiddler's ground with his pockets full of
nuggets.'

Joe laughed, a little constrainedly, and
drank, murmuring into the glass a word of
tenderness for Dinah. He would fain have
given his confidence to Cheston, but something
withheld him, some fear perhaps of breaking
down, or some childish dread of seeming sentimental,

or reluctant about going at this final
moment.

You'll let me know how you get along
says Cheston ; ' and drawing him aside,
you'll claim the coin whenever you want it,
you know.'

All right,' Joe nodded in return. New
clinking of glasses, new good wishes. Wine
makes the heart glad and the face to shine,
and sets the little cords within tingling and
ringing to tunes tender and hopeful, mournful
and triumphant. On deck again, the inward
orchestra playing ' Good-bye, Sweetheart,'
The Emigrant's Farewell,' and ' Cheer, Boys,
Cheer,' in a strange laughing tearful medley.
Steadfast lights ashore and shifting lights afloat,
shining reflected on the transparent gloom of
the river, many a time to be recalled by fancy,
and looking already memorable and unlike
anything seen before. Greenwich and 'goodbye
' — the little boat dancing shoreward into
darkness, the great black hulk sliding sullenly
down the river and towards the open sea.

And now for the first time in his life young

Joe felt alone. A man may be alone a thousand
times without feeling it, or may feel it in
spite of society. There are certain normal
conditions of nature which we do our best to
leave unrecognised. Silence is one, darkness
another, solitude a third. We make raids into
silence with a tremulous defiance, as a boy
whistles to keep his heart up when walking in
the dusk through a churchyard. We defy
darkness in the feeblest ways, and she has her
own in spite of us. One of these days she will
creep at an extinguished sun and stifle the fading
stars. And as for solitude, every human soul
is so alone that no other can get into reach
of it, but we make pretence of being gregarious
and we forget our fears. These three orreat
negatives, silence and darkness and solitude,
are the eternal background against which we
fantoccini disport ourselves, for Heaven knows
whose amusement. We huddle together to
forget these gruesome everlasting negatives ;
but when we are for a moment severed from
the crowd, how the knowledge of them swoops
down and shrivels us ! Solitude, silence, darkness

on the sea, and the hapless young Joe in
the middle of them.

He had never been at sea before, and he
suffered physically. The Eeverend Paul Screed
was avenged already, and could he have appreciated
his enemy's miseries, he would have been
more than ready to forgive. Surely, thought
Joe, there was nothing in the world — nothing,
nothing, nothing — which could make it worth
while to endure this helpless horrible nausea,
this fruitless revolt of soul and body against a
universe suddenly grown hideous and unbearable.
' Ah, death I'd gladly welcome,' sings
the melodious Italian tenor in florid declamation
to Leonora. Young Joe had no heart to
sing it, but he groaned it, as with heavy eyes
and pea-green countenance he lay in his berth
surrendered to misery. Only one man in a
hundred tastes the awful possibilities of seasickness,
but Joe was the one in the hundred
who sailed aboard the ' Orinoco,' and the ship's
look-out had sighted Kindle Head before he
was better. Then he began to recover pluck
and appetite together, and the remainder part

of the voyage went pleasantly enough. When
a man has been as penitent for three or four
days as he had been, penitence is apt to be
worn a little threadbare. There is no emotion
which cannot be out-worn, and Joe had got
through his stock of repentance too speedily
perhaps. I knew a schoolboy whose one
gustatory passion was cheese. Once being
possessed of a spare half-crown, he bought an
egregious lump of Gruyere, and attacked it in
the solitude of his chamber, and ate until he
could eat no more. He has arrived now atman's
estate, that schoolboy ; and his youthful
feast was enjoyed years and years ago, but if
you show him Gruyere at this day you almost
drive him from the table. He ate enough to
last him for his Lifetime. In like manner, young
Joe was so greedy of remorse that his four
days' feast of woe lasted him the voyage and
for some time beyond it.

He landed in due time in Xew York, and
before he had set foot upon American ground
the crushing sense of solitude had retired in
favour of an exhilarating feeling of independence.

He had already been so long absent
from Dinah without sending her a message that
he felt it unworthy to write now until he had
begun to do something to atone for absence
and silence. He was a little dismayed to
discover that he was as far off from California,
practically, as ever, and that he had not money
enough to go there, except in the roughest and
meanest way. Then, people with whom he
talked set the chances before him in a discouraging
manner, and, in brief, his money
melted with surprising swiftness, and, though
employment was plentiful enough for those who
knew how to work, he knew how to do
nothing, and therefore got nothing to do. He
wrote to Cheston and to Uncle George.
Cheston kept his promise and sent the money
he owed, and that also melted. Uncle George
wrote a letter, which he took the precaution to
post in Birmingham, lest the local postmaster
should know the lad's address. In this epistle
he set forth his deep sorrow at the fact that his
brother and his sister-in-law were still implacable.
Young Joe's resolve to emigrate —

according to Uncle George — shad been the last
straw which broke the camel's back, and they
were now irreconcilable. The writer expressed
his deepest regret for young Joe's prospects,
but he sent no money.

Then came two or three days' semi-starvation
in New York, then an engagement as pretender
at a brick-kiln some miles outside the
city. This business in a rough and squalid way
held body and soul together, but there was no
chance of making a home for Dinah out of it.
And so Dinah was still unwritten to, and the
days and weeks and months went by. He had
new remorse, but he had his work to do and
his bodily discomforts to endure, and by-and-by
memory grew less poignant. After some
months he fell in with a lumber cranmer, and
went with him to the Dominion and lived a
rough blackwood life, hardening his hands and
touching his muscles and growing a great
beard. Anybody seeing him would never have
recognised the spruce young Midland dandy,
and he had almost forgotten himself.

By this time he was ashamed and afraid to

write to Dinah. He was very unhappy about
her often. He was very tender and sore in his
thoughts about her always. But he never
wrote, and he began to hope that she would
forget him, and give him up for dead, and
carry on her life without him. In one of his
rare letters to Uncle George, a couple of years
after leaving England, he mentioned Dinah so
particularly that the old fox suspected him of
an inclination to come back again. So he
wrote in answer that Dinah Banks had married,
and from that time forth he received no letters
from his nephew. This rejoiced him, for with
every day that passed he felt his hold upon his
brother's fortune surer and more sure.

CHAPTEE V.

The Saracen's Head was a cheerful and comfortable
hostel, proffering on its signboard good
accommodation for man and beast, and fulfilling
its promise liberally within. Sanded floor,
huge open fireplace blazing with an enormous
fire, after the generous-looking fashion of the
mining districts, where coal is cheap and a good
fire is counted first of household comforts. Big
bare oak beams in the ceiling, with flitches of
mellow bacon stuck flat across them, ripening
to the rasher stage ; shining onions in nets and
reeves, and hams in canvas jackets bearing
them company. Prodigiously solid tables of
dark oak, much battered by years of rough
usage and irregularly gauffred at the edges by
idle pocket-knives. Heavy wooden settles,
polished by the lounging shoulders of many

generations of guests, and staunch to carry
generations more. The present assembly —
clad in thick flannel jackets, thrown open to
show the gaudy lining of cheap felt carpeting,
heavy ankle-jack boots, mostly worn unlaced,
with a big crumpled tongue hanging out, as
though the boots were thirstier than their
wearers, nondescript hats of felt, shaped like
basins and without a pretence of brim — the
present assembly sat smoking and drinking ina
quiet contentment almost bovine. It was
noticeable that most of the men where blazoned
in a singular manner on the face, as if they had
been tattooed and the design had been half
obliterated. Each man so marked had felt
Death's hand upon his cheek once at least.
But that was commonplace, every-day, and in
the way of business, and as a general thing was
not much thought of.

This was the Saracen's common room, and
was rather out of the Saracen's own direct line
of observation. He swung, with inflamed
countenance, portentous turban, unnumbered
jewels, and bilious eyes, above a brighter

window round the corner, and behind the
brighter window lay a snugger room — a sort of
library of liquor, where bottles held the shelves
instead of books. It was a mere bandbox of a
room, and what with its jolly fire and crimson
window blind, and its glitter of glass and gilt
lettering, it glowed and sparkled on this wintry
nicrht with amazing warmth and brightness.

o o o

For the wind was howling and the Saracen was
pitching gustily to and fro outside, and shrieking
rustily at the weather, and the rain beat at
the windows frantically at times. All this redoubled
the inner warmth and brightness, of
course, and sent the inmates of the cosy room
closer with comfortable shivering round the
fire. The inmates of the room were three in
number. On one side of the fire sat an old
woman, and on the other a young one. Between
them an old man in a sleeved waistcoat
sat back in an armchair and scorched his legs
with an aspect of much contentment. He was
a fat man with a pale countenance, white hair,
and a well-filled rotund waistcoat. Every now
and then with his fat hands he caressed the

rotund waistcoat as if encouraging his digestive
faculties, as you pat a horse when he has
pleased you. The old woman was ruddy and
neat and clean, in an old-fashioned mutch cap
with spotless crisp lace edges and having a
white silk kerchief drawn squarely over her
round shoulders. . The young woman was
pretty but wistful-looking, her face paler than
it should have been ; her eyes giving a kindly
observer warrant to believe that they were
more used to tears than eyes which had a right
to be gay by virtue of their brightness and
their beauty should be.

Daniel,' said the old lady, ' what's the
time ? '

The old man stole a caressing hand across
the rotundity of his figure and pulled out a fat,
pale watch. ' It's nearhand on ten.'

'Tine them chaps was going', then,' said the
old lady.

Ah ! ' said the old man assenting, ' I
suppose it is, missis. I suppose it is.' He
drew his legs from the fire, and stroked them
persuasively, as who should say 'Will you carry

me ? ' The legs apparently declined, for the
feet went back to the fender, and their owner's
hands once more offered a silent recognition of
the efforts made by his digestive organs. A
long-drawn sigh seemed to admit that they
were overworked, and that he had no wish to
hurry them.

'I do declare, our Daniel,' said his ^^ife
placidly, ' you're getting' glazier every day.'

Very like, missis,' assented Daniel, ' very
like. A mon dort get no suppler at my time
o' life.'

I'm ashamed on you, Daniel,' said the
wife, half vexed, half laughing. ' Dinah, light
your father's candle, an' send him to bed.'
The girl rose to obey. The old woman, laying
down the knitting which had hitherto occupied
her plump white fingers, set her hands upon
the elbows of her armchair and made a motion
to rise. By that time the struggle between the
smile and the frown was over and the smile
had won. Her placid and good-humoured
gaze followed her daughter's languid motion
across the room, when suddenly her hands

relaxed their hold upon the elbows of the chair
and she sank back with a look in which terror
and suspicion were singularly blended. The
girl reached a candlestick from the mantelpiece,
crossed the room for a spill of paper,
returned, lighted the candle and set it in
the old man's hand. Then stooping over him
she kissed his cheek, and sat down in
her corner. The mother arose and left
the room. A moment later her voice was
heard.

Now, Willy-um, your mother '11 be a sitting'
up for you. George Bethel, you ought to ha'
been abed an hour ago. Tummas, you're on
the night shift, I know, an' it's time as you was
gone.'

Let's have another half-gallant, mother,'
pleaded one solemn roysterer gruffly. 'It'll
only be a half-a-pint all round.'

Not another drop o' drink'll be drawer i'
this house this night,' returned the old lady
with unusual acidity of tone.

'Missis,' responded the young man first
addressed, 'yo' mote [must not] send Turn

whom sober. His ode woman ain't used to it.
He'll have a fit, or summit.'

Haw, haw, haw ! ' from the assemblage.
The old lady turned upon the wag with solemn
anger.

Willy-um Bowker,' she said, ' you'd worse
than any on 'em, an' to be so young too. It's
known far an' wide as nobody ever got drink
to mek him unsteady at the Saracen's Head,
neither Tummas Howl nor no man.'

Missis,' said the wag with instant propitiation
in his tone, ' it een't like yo to turn rusty
at a joke. But we gone away dry to-night
instead o' drunk, an' for my part I liken' to be
about half-way.' A murmur of general approval
greeted this statement, and every man
seemed to be in favour of tie golden mean.
But the old lady was inexorable.

Drunk or dry,' she said with much acerbity
and decision, ' you'll go as you are.'

Come on, chaps,' said Mi Bowker, who as
yet was beardless. ' Her's as good as a mother
to all on us, an' what her says her sticks to.
Good-night, missis, and no offence," as

VOL. I. 11

Turn said to the windmill last time he fell
agen it.'

Good-night, missis,' said each grave roy-steer
as he passed her. She answered each byname.
'Good-night, 'Minadab. Good-night,
Ebenezer. Good-night, Meshach.' And so on
through a list of the quaintest names, until the
last had tramped up the sanded passage and
had turned out into the rain. She blew out
the candles, bolted the door behind the retiring
guests, and returned to the smaller room. The
old man had gone upstairs, and the girl was
preparing to follow. The staircase, with steps
of. well-scoured white-sanded wood, opened
into this snug little room, and the mother,
closing the door, stood with her shoulders
against it regarding Dinah. The girl looked at
her meekly, but with an air a little startled.

Our Dinah,' said the mother, ' I want to
speak to you. You'd better sit down.' The
girl obeyed. ' There's something' the matter wi'
you. What is it ? '

'There's nothing the matter with m<?,
mother,' answered Dinah wearily

My gell,' said Mrs. Banks advancing, and
bending towards lier with an anxious, tremendous
severity, ' you can't deceive me. There's something'
the matter.'

No,' said Dinah, looking puzzled ; ' I'm a
bit dull. That's aU.'

Dinah, you can't deceive an old experienced
woman. There's something' the matter with
you, and something' very dreadful. Tell me
this minute what it is.'

'Oh, mother,' said Dinah, in an agitated
whisper, ' am I going to die ? '

It'd almost be better if you was,' said the
mother. Dinah's face was white, and her eyes
were wide open with fear, but at this she
flushed suddenly, and shrank and cowered,
with her arms drawn across her face. Her
very ears and neck were red and white by
turns, as she bent down.

Is it that ? ' she sobbed ; ' oh, is it that ? '

'dinah ! Dinah ! you wicked gell,' said her
mother. * Tell me who it is ! ' Dinah bent
lower and lower, and drew herself away as
any defenceless thing draws back into itself at

n 2

the touch of an intruding finger. Her mother
seized one of her hands, and strove to draw it
from her face, but Dinah held her head down
so resolutely, and drew her arms so tightly
towards herself, that the old woman was powerless
to effect her purpose. ' Tell me who it is ! '
she repeated severely, relinquishing her hand.
'Is it young Joe Bushell — as has broke his
father's and mother's heart, and made a muzzy
o' you as well ? '

Oh, mother,' cried Dinah, dropping
suddenly upon her knees, and seizing the old
woman by both hands, * we were married at
Waston Church last Whitsuntide.' Dinah's
mother dropped down upon her knees and
faced the girl. * .

You was married ? At Whitsuntide ?
You an' young Joe Bushell ? '

Yes,' cried the girl, and suddenly releasing
her mother's hands, she fell forward upon the
floor, and hiding her face again, cried passionately.
The elder woman fell forward also, and
clipping her by the waist, strove to lift her.

but again Dinah would not move. So they
knelt there and mingled their tears.

'Dinah,' said the mother, whispering, 'it
never crossed my mind till to-night when you
got up to get your father's candle, an' then it
come to me at a run. But, Dinah, I'm sorry
for you, an' you'll have a bad time wi' your
father an' the neighbours. Oh, you poor silly
gell not to tell me as you was married ! An*
now he's gone, the Lord alone knows wheel.'

He'll come back again,' sobbed Dinah. ' If
he's alive, he'll come back again.'

Haven't you heard on him, neither ? * asked
her mother in surprise and fear.

No,' wept Dinah, ' never since the day he
went away. Oh, mother, do you think he's
dead ? They say he's gone to America, an' he
might ha' been drowned at sea, or anything.
Oh, I can't think as if he'd been alive he'd ha'
left like this. And he promised to send my
lines an' aU, an' I've never heard a word.'

Dinah,' said the mother in a horror-stricken
whisper, ' haven't you got your lines ? '

No,' answered Dinah, still weeping. ' He
promised to send 'em the day lie went away.'

Then the mother lifted up her voice and
wept aloud.

'Dinah, you're a ruined gell, and I'm a
miserable, disgraced old woman ! '

The immortal Doctor Marigold remarks
that in his father's days 'registration hadn't
come up much.' So far as the knowledge of
poor Dinah and her mother went, registration
had not come up at all. To this very day, in
that part of England in which they lived, there
are women who believe that the possession of
their ' marriage lines ' is the only surety of
their own honour. To lose their ' lines,' in the
belief of those simple souls, would be to invalidate
the marriage ceremony, and to make their
children illegitimate. Nor is this curious superstition
confined to the downright ignorant
classes, as you might fancy. Fairly well-to-do
people, who can read the newspaper without
spelling the hard words at all, and who would
with righteous anger resent the imputation of

ignorance, still stick to the belief. Thirty years
ago it was probably general.

Mrs. Banks, landlady of the Saracen's Head,
was not by nature an imaginative or an inventive
woman. Unless you choose to call
the immortal allegories of Bunyan by that
name, she had never read a romance in her
Hfe. Nowadays Mr. Wilkie Collins is to the
fore to help anybody to an elaborate plot upon
emergency, and there is, indeed, scarcely a
condition of life imaginable upon which modern
fiction could not throw a light more or less
direct and helpful. But feminine human nature
existed on much the same lines as now before
the popular novelist came into being. Necessity
is the mother of invention, and here if anywhere
in the world was a necessity of the
sternest sort. At any risk, the family reputation
must be saved : at any risk short of crime.
It would be surely the very whitest of white
lies if the mother could acknowledge her
daughter's child as her own, and could thereby
save her daughter's reputation. In any case.

the material cost of the child's maintenance
would fall upon the Saracen, and his shoulders
were broad enough to bear without tremor a
score of such burdens. Dinah was the only
child of her parents, and if she shared in the
deceit she could rob nobody. So the old
woman mellowed her plan, and slowly turned
it over, and then laid it before Dinah.

Dinah, my dear, we're in a peck o' trouble,
and we shall ha' to get deserves out on it as
best we can. It 'ud break thy father's heart to
know it, and it mustn't be let get to his hearing'
at all.'

How can we help it ? ' asked Dinah, forlorn
and pale.

The old lady revealed her plan in a
sentence.

He must be made to think as the child's
mine.' Dinah quivered at this. One of those
amazing and mysterious instincts which make
mothers what they are, awoke in her, and she
felt as if her unborn baby were being stolen from
her. The mother saw this and understood it,
being a mother. ' By yourself it'll be all your

oven. I must tell Daniel as I expect it. He'll
be sore amazed, I doubt, but you must get away
into the country when the time's coming', an' I
must come to see you. Then you'll ha' to write
to your father an' say as I'm took ill, an' can't
come back again. Then, when it's all o'er, we
can come back together, an' nobody '11 think
any thin' about it.'

From the first moment of Dinah's proclamation
of the truth, there had been no shadow
of doubt in the mother's mind. She believed
the story unreservedly, and when Dinah told it
in full, setting forth the errant young Joe's
reasons for concealment, she, though her anger
burned against the runaway, forgave her
daughter the folly of which she had been
guilty.

The winter wore away, and through it all
Dinah was kept almost a prisoner. Daniel was
not often curious about her, but when he was
his wife was equal to the occasion, and satisfied
him easily. What should make him believe that
a plot like the beginning of a melodrama was
going on at the Saracen's Head ? The spring

began to hint that it was coming, and the time
drew near.

Our Daniel,' said Mrs. Banks to her
husband, * our Dinah is looking a bit delicate,
don't you fancy ? '

Daniel was a good husband, and agreed with
his wife in all things. He had had five-and-twenty
years of married life, and found that a
policy of general acquiescence kept things
smooth.

Is her ? ' said Daniel. ' Well, I thought
I'd noticed it myself.'

I think o' sending' her to Wardenb'ry,' said
Mrs. Banks, ' for change of air, like. What do
you say, Daniel ? '

Very well, missis,' said that easy man. ' It'll
do her a bit of good, mayhap, poor wench ! '

Mayhap it will, Daniel,' said Mrs. Banks.
We'll go tomorrow.'

I Daniel was somewhat taken aback by this
precipitancy. Commonly at the Saracen's Head
a thing was mentioned, discussed, put by,
mentioned and discussed again, and put into
action long after in less sleepy places it would

have been forgotten. He offered no opposition.
He was accustomed to philosophise about women
in his own way. ' A woman,' he had been
known to say, ' is like a pig. He'll neither
be led nor drove, an' it's as train' to a mon todo
one as it is to do the t'other.' So, as a
rule, Daniel said nothing, but encouraged his
digestive apparatus by patting his waistcoat, and
let things take their course.

Wardenbiuy was thirty miles off, and Daniel
knew it vaguely as being Coventry way. Mrs.
Banks had relatives there, and in the long
course of her married life had paid it two or
three visits. Daniel used to speak of himself as
being ' no great hands of a traveller.' He had
been born at the Saracen's Head, and had never
been farther away than Birmingham. But
though he was no traveller, and might, had he
been a demonstrative man, have run a risk of
seeming hen-pecked, he had his feelings as a
husband.

Mother,' he advised, ' I shouldn't go to
Wardenb'ry yet, if I was you. Think o' your
condition.'

Think o' your own condition, y'ode timberhead
! ' returned his wife, ' an' leave me to
think o' mine.'

Well, think on it,' said Daniel. Mrs.
Banks bustled away to tell Dinah that matters
were arranged, and to help her to prepare for
the journey. The landlord of the Saracen was
not in the least degree offended by his wife's
outspokenness. Had she even called upon him
to confirm her criticism he would probably have
done it.

The morrow came, and Dinah was smuggled
into the traps in the back yard. The
mother followed. A shock-headed stable-boy
called Jabez drove the pair to the railway
station, and returned alone. Next morning
same a letter to Daniel stating that Mrs. Banks
would spend a day or two at Waterbury.

I snowed how it 'ud be,' said Daniel.
^ Once let 'em goo a-gaddin' about, an' thee
may'st whistle for 'em afore they coming' back
again.' He had not the remotest suspicion.
He had never read anything more romantic
than an invoice for wines and spirits, and he

had never seen a play. Even if he had, why
should he suspect his wife and daughter ? The
day or two lengthened into a week, and then
came the news that he was again a father.
His old age was blessed with a son. He took
an extra glass or two on the strength of it, and
went about with an air of proprietors gravity,
crossed at times by an involuntary smile. Towards
evening the neighbours dropped in as
usual. Daniel imparted the news and was congratulated.
He sat in his big armchair with
his hands resting on the crook of a thick 
and his elbows squared, and looked as
if he thought that he deserved the congratulations
and had earned the applause of the
world. There was an air upon him as of one
who might boast if he would, but woidd not.
The little snuggery was rather better filled than
common that evening, and the health of the
son and heir was diam pretty frequently.
Daniel could do nothing less than join. Liquor
took little effect upon him : he was accustomed
to it, and his inner man was toughened to its
assaults. It floated his smile to the surface a

little oftener, that was all. But when closing
time came, and he was left alone, he gave vent
to his joy and triumph. He struck his stick
upon the floor with both hands and arose ; and
laughed long and loud.

Ha, ha, ha ! ' cried Daniel, shaking and
beaming ; ' their's life in th' ode dog yit.'

That night shock-headed Jabez had to
guide the landlord upstairs, but on the morrow
the old man had accepted the position of affairs,
and awaited the arrival of the infant and his
mother with an approach to phlegm. He had
never received many letters, and had never had
occasion to write many. The lack of correspondence
did not affect him. Dinah wrote
once or twice, but that was all, and mother
and daughter came back with the infant, after
little more than a month from the date of their
departure. Dinah restoration to health seemed
little less than miraculous. Her languid heavy
step was changed for one light and full of
energy. Her face beamed and bloomed once
more, and there was no trace of grief in her
eyes. And surely never was sister so passionately

devoted to a late-born brother who came
to step in between herself and wealth. For
old Daniel — who, in a quiet way, was very
well-to-do — made no secret of his intent to
leave everything — or nearly everything — to the
young stranger. He was ludicrously proud of
the baby, and used to rock him in his cradle
or watch him as he yelled and fought against
milk-warm water and soap, or crowed, in
better moods, for kisses in his elder sister's lap.
Dinah never allowed him to crow in vain. The
old man was amazed sometimes by the almost
savage fervour of the kisses with which she mum-singly
devoured the little pink body and the
podgy little face and hands. Mrs. Banks and
her daughter between them attended to the
infant's wants with amazing ardour, and sometimes
almost quarrelled for the possession of
him.

Once Daniel overheard a colloquy between
them.

Dinah,' said her mother, in a half-cross,
half-appealing tone, ' you might let me nurse
the baby now an' then.'

He's mine,' said Dinah defiantly.

Why, Dinah,' cried Mrs. Banks, seeing the
old man looking in at the door, ' a body might
think as you was the mother as bore him.
Give me the child, I tell thee.' A meaning look
passed between them. Dinah understood, and
surrendered little George. But scarcely a day
passed in which she was not in danger of betraying
herself. She would sit for hours and
hours poring over the little red snub-nosed
baby face, reading a likeness to the absent Joe
in features where your eye or mine could have
discovered no atom of resemblance, and where
she found one clearer than the truest photograph
the sun ever made. It was curious and
yet natural how the presence of the child
atoned for the absence of the father. And
yet there was a terrible cruelty in it. The
child would never learn to call her * Mother.'

CHAPTER YL

When Eebecca Bushell took her ultimatum
to young Joe, then packing up for departure in
his bedroom, she saw, lying upon the bed. an
old light overcoat, with its pockets turned
inside out. In those pockets Joe had made a
hasty search for the certificate, and, not finding
it, had cast the coat aside. The mother
walked into the son's empty room next morning.
It was just as he had left it the night
before. All the drawers had been taken
bodily from the chest, and were stacked
disorderly on each other beside it. The mother,
by matronly instinct, began to abolish disorder,
crying silently the while. Then wiping her
eyes with her apron and looking round to see
if all were straight, she noticed the light overcoat
thrown across the bed. With native tidi-

TOL. I. I

ness she took up the coat and straightened it,
and observing a rent in one of the pockets,
drew out a housewife and sat upon the bed to
repair that slight mischief; folding the coat
carefully, she placed it in one of the drawers,
smoothed the pillows, adjusted the hangings of
the bed, and left the room.

This empty chamber became sacred to
motherly prayers and tears thereafter, when
many heavy months had gone by, and young
Joe's silence had not been broken. Many a
time she knelt there and followed him into she
knew not what of danger and temptation, and
many a time she opened the drawer to look at
the coat, which was the only relic her only
child had left her. By mutual consent of
sorrow, husband and wife spoke little of the
absent son ; but old Joe would yet break out
at times, with a shake of his head : —
Becky, you was too hard on the lad.'
Joseph,' Eebecca would answer, ' he that
spare the rod hateth his son, but he that
loveth him chastise him betimes.'

Yes,' old Joe would say in return, ' that's

well enough, but you was too hail on the
lad.'

So Eebecca bore alike her own burden
and a load which was not hers. She had but
one way with all her troubles — to cast them on
the hands of that vast, vague, cruel, fatherly
Fatherhood who was the refuge of His chosen,
and the scourge and overwhelming terror of all
others. She went into her son's room, and
there knelt down, and poured out her soul in
silent tears ; and after a while, seeing how she
grieved, old Joe troubled her no more.

The Eeverend Paul Screed was less reticent.


It is ordained,' he would say, ' that the
saints shall be troubled, lest they become too
much absorbed by the world ; ' and by a thousand
platitudes of the sort he strove to console
the inconsolable, probing a wound which could
only heal by rest. The Eeverend Paul was a
good man, and tried hourly to be better than
he was, but he had no touch of tact in all his
clumsy nature. I looked up to him in my
youth, and I respect his memory now, but I

could find it in my heart to wish him and his
kind an island to themselves, where they should
vex none out of their own communion. Yet,
within six months of the day on which young
Joe departed from his native town, the minister
did as noble a thing as lay within him to do.
He sat once more at meat with old Joe and
his wife, and dinner being over, the minister
cleared his voice with a sorrowful ' Ahem,' and
addressed his host and hostess.

Mr. Bushell and Madam,' he said, with a
certain stiff formality which perhaps was the
only manner which left speech possible to him,
it is part of our mortal burden to reflect that
we have laid it chiefly upon ourselves. One
part of my burden is that I helped to bring a
heavy and an undeserved trouble upon people
whom I value, and people who have borne my
injury without an angry word. Even whilst I
thought I was doing my duty as a minister of
the Word, I was but revenging myself for
certain sights and thoughtless witticisms which
your now errant son had vented upon me. I
spoke in anger and in bitterness, and I spoke,

as I have since had reason to believe, on no
sufficient grounds. And it has been borne in
upon me, my friends, that although it is unhappily
beyond my power to undo the wrong I
did, it is still my duty to confess it humbly
before you, and to beg yom Christian forgiveness.
I have long since forgiven the blow ^vith
which you" son retaliated upon my sour impertinences.
I trust that he has forgiven me
my part. I confess my wrong-doing, and
I ask, humbly and with deep sorrow, for your
pardon.'

Mrs. Bushell had never been so near disliking
the Eeverend Paul as she was at that
minute, for she had long since formed her
judgment and forgiven, and this appeal set the
old wound aching.

Parson,' said old Joe, ' say no more about
it. There was faults all round.'

Ah, Joseph,' said Mrs. Bushell with tears
in her eyes, * it's too late now, but I should
have been a glad woman at this minute if you'd
said me nay when I was that cruel to poor
Joe.'

I'm master i' this house,' said old Joe,
and what I ought to ha' done would ha' been
to ha' given him a licking' their an' then, an'
said no more about it.'

When they had time to think about it,
husband and wife respected the minister the
more for his candid and manly confession, but
neither that nor any other reparation could
bring back young Joe, who now began to live
in the regard of those three with something of
the martyr's halo about him. The neighbourhood
knew the story, of course, and the neighbours
put their own constructions upon it.
Those who went to Ebenezer Chapel, in which
edifice the Eeverend Paul habitually discoursed,
held with their pastor. Those who went to
Church, and those who went nowhere — the vast
majority — held for the most part with young
Joe, and made a hero of him as well as a
martyr. Had the young fellow returned within
any reasonable time after his escapade, he
would have been encountered by precisely that
kind of qualified laudation with which it is now
the practice of this enlightened and steadfast

country to greet its home-returning warriors or
colonial governors.

In those days of decent poverty when she
first gave her hand to old Joe, and set up
housekeeping with him, Eebecca had mastered
the practice of all virtues of industry, and even
in later years, when her husband became
wealthy beyond the wildest and most extravagant
hopes of his class, and when she might
have surrounded herself with an army of
servants had she chosen it, she still performed
all but the roughest work of the household
with her own hands. I like to think of the
erect, personable woman in her afternoon black
silk, looking, as she sat in state in the little
parlour, almost too lofty for approach. At
such times, when the scrubbing, scouring, and
dusting, the washing, baking, mending, cooking
whatever may have been the business of the
day — was done with, she would sit there above
her big Bible or the ' Holy War,' in which
volume, as I remember, she took an especial
and unique delight, and would resign herself
to a stern and stately meditation on holy things.

Whilst young Joe was with her he vexed her
often, and her heart ached with fear for his
future many a time. But now that he was
gone and gave no sign, these daylight vigils
became a prolonged and prayerful pain to the
mother's heart. Old Joe, who had no taste for
parlours, would sit and smoke gloomily and
alone beside the kitchen fire. He too had his
dreary vigils, troubled, certainly, by no such
spiritual agonies as his wife endured, but unlighted
by those flashes of pious hope which
sometimes illumined her spirit. Nov and then
Brother George would look in, and, wooden ashe
was, some qualms of conscience touched
him, beholding the desolation he had helped to
bring about. I do not wish, as I have intimated,
to paint George in the darkest sort of
colours. He had not enough of virtuous instinct
to be a villain. There was nothing in him
for himself to sin against.

It's the best thing in the world as could
happen to him.' Thus George meditated respecting
young Joe. It is the mean man's
tribute to honour, the rogue's admission of the

beauty of justice, that he cares to justify himself
in his own mind. ' It'll make a man of
him, an' he'll have me to thank for it. It's a
precious poor chance I've got o' seen' that
hunted pound again. Eh dear, but I allays
was a fool wi' my money.' Thus he held his
head in the sand, and persuaded himself that
his conscience did not see him — an attitude
more common than the superficial student
might suppose.

It became more and more evident, as time
went on, that old Joe and Eebecca his wife
were breaking. Trouble told upon the woman
earlier than upon the man, for though she bore
it better, she suffered more intensely. She fell
into languor. The household work, once gone
through with such swift bustle, had to be committed
to a stranger's charge ; she spent more
of her time in her bedroom, and old Joe sat,
feeling longer than ever, by the kitchen fire.

Eebecca, though few people guessed it, had
always been strongly attracted to young people.
That young people were not attracted to her was
natural enough, perhaps, though she felt it to

be hard. But now, in this time of her distress,
Dinah Banks became her chief comfort. The
clumsy servant wench, though animated by the
best intentions, was a poor attendant in a sickroom.
A hippopotamus in clogs might have
gone about as lightly, and she had one or two
special faculties in the way of tumbling over
fire-irons, dropping dishes and the like, which
were aggravated into supernatural exercise by
her own desire to go about the sick-chamber
silently. Dinah, light-footed and soft-handed,
was a welcome relief to the sufferer's nerves.
The more Dinah came, the more Mrs. Bushell
cared to have her there, and the better Dinah
loved to wait upon her.

The thing which drew Dinah there was
the hope that she might hear something of
her husband. No news came, but at last,
on the anniversary of the day of his departure,
Mrs. Bushell for the first time spoke of
him.

It's a year to-day,' she said, ' since my
poor lad went away.'

Dinah, whose mind was full of the remembrance

of the day (for women are your true
keepers of anniversaries, and have other saints'
days than are sat down in the calendar),
trembled and turned pale at these simple
words. Eebecca, lying with her eyes closed,
and her thin hands folded below her chin, went
on ; —

We're short-sighted creatures, and there's
only one thing as we can be sure of, Dinah.
It's all in the Lord's hands.'

Then she lay quiet for a while, and Dinah
quivered beside her. For not Joe's desertion
of her, nor the failure of his promise, nor the
danger of disgrace, nor the fact that fate had
stolen her child fi'om her, had weaned her
heart from young Joe. She would believe no
ill of him, but dreaded to hear of terrible
mischiefs which had happened to him.

And now,' said the old woman again, ' I
shan't be here long, and perhaps I shall know
more about it where I'm going' to.'

No,' said Dinah, laying a timid hand upon
Eebecca's brow, 'you must wait long enough
to see him come back again. He can't have

the heart to stay away for good, if he's ahve/
and at that Dinah broke out crying.

Rebecca opened her eyes, and her hands
parted.

'Dinah, my poor gell!' was all she
said.

And Dinah, pierced by a sudden revelation
of instinct, read the stately heart of the rigid
old Calvinist aright and knew its tenderness.
She leaned over the bed, and laid her face
softly in Rebecca's bosom, and the old woman
and the young one cried together.

'I always snowed,' said Eebecca, gliding
back into the broadest accent of her childhood,
as you loved him, an' I know as he loved you.
An' he wasn't a bad lad at bottom, Dinah,
an' he never meant no harm ; an' it was my
cruel ways as made him angry wi' religion.' The
old woman's tears flowed freely, but she went
on with no break in her voice. 'Yo' seek
help where help is to be got. You'll see him
come back again some day, Dinah, an' yo'
must tell him as whatever he did as was wrong
his mother forgive him afore her died, an'

whatever her did as was wrong to him, her
asked yo' task him to forget.'

There she ceased again, and lay, stroking
Dinah's wet cheek, and feebly drying the girl's
eyes. Dinah had an impulse upon her to tell
the story of her marriage to yomig Joe, and
the birth of her son, but was restrained by the
sense of Eebecca's weakness, and by some misgiving
that without her ' lines ' a strict womanlike
Mrs. Bushell might regard her as an altogether
improper sort of person. In a little
time she controlled herself, and sat down, once
more, beside the bed. For a time both were
silent. Eebecca lay with closed eyes like one
asleep, and Dinah had risen to steal from the
room, when the sick woman turned her head,
saying :—

Dinah, my dear, their's only one thing as
Joe left behind him. You'll find it i' the top
long drawer i' the next room. It's a grey-coloured
coat. Bring it in to me, there's a
good gell : I want to see it again before I die.
It's the only thing he left behind him.'

'Dinah passed into the next room, found

the coat and returned. Eebecca took it from
her, unfolded it feebly, and caressed it with her
hands.

It was Joseph's Coat,' she said. ' When
the wicked sons pretended as young Joseph
was dead, they brought his coat to Jacob ;
Joseph's Coat. But he was alive all the time
in Egypt, and his father lived to see him rich
and well-to-do.'

Her mind began to wander, and she fancied
that her son stood beside her.

Yo'U be kind to your father, Joseph,' she
said, ' when you come back from Egypt, and
you'll remember as it's my wish as you should
marry Dinah.'

Then she slumbered for a while, and Dinah,
full of fear and awe, stole downstairs to the
kitchen, where old Joe sat in gloomy silence,
with an unlighted pipe between his teeth and
stared into the ashy bars of the grate.

There's a great change in her, Mr.
Bushell,' she said.

Old Joe shook his head sadly.

I've snowed as it was a-comin',' he said.

in a deep inward murmur ; ' I've seen it a-
coming' this many a day.'

They passed upstairs together. Eebecca
still slumbered. They stood for a time on
either side of the bed in silence. By-and-by the
dying woman opened her eyes languidly, looked
round with no recognition, plucked feebly at
the coat which lay beneath her hands, and then,
with the last ray of intelligence which visited
her sold in this world, recognised the garment.

It was Joseph's Coat,' she said, and with
these words she died.

Old Joe bore this wife's death stonily, and
no man could tell whether he grieved or not.
The funeral took place on Sunday, and the
bereaved husband and his brother George were
the only mourners. They walked behind the
hearse in long hat-bands and black clothes,
saw the dead interred in the squalid graveyard
of Ebenezer, and went back together.

Their was a will I made,' said Old Joe,
sitting beside the kitchen fire, ' i' my son's
favour.' He rose and took the document of
which he spoke from a sham two volumes in

folio of the ' History of England marked on
the inside for a chess board. ' Me an' Joe he
said, 'used to play draughts on that. They
used to reckon me a pretty good player, but
he could beat my yet off. He was a very
good draught-player, was Joe.'

He set down the chess-board lingeringly,
and tapped it once or twice with his knuckles.
Then, seating himself again, he opened the
document.

It was drawer up,' he said, ' by a lawyer
an' all made out proper, this here will was.
Everything* on my Eebecca's death was to goo
without reserve to my son Joseph, except a
thousand pound to my brother George. And
now there don't seem no son Joseph for it to
goo to, an' wheel it does goo I don't care.'

At this intimation Brother George's heart
experienced a soft and gentle glow. Things
were looking well for Brother George. It was
a maxim of his that ' fine words butter no
parsnips,' but he knew also that they cost
nothing, and he expended a few upon his
brother's grief.

• Your paternal feeling's, Joe-zipb, as a man
might say, is a plain' on your heart-strings.
But their's many a young man as has stopped
away for a year as has come back at the end
of it, or, leastways, in the course of time.
Preapshe oughtn't ha' gone to Merrily after alL
He might ha' 'listed.'

He's never wrote to nobody,' said Joe,
not all the time he's been away.'

Xo,' said Brother George, with no token
of shame ; ' never a word, as I've heard on.'

The elder brother sat silent, looking" at the
fire, with his massive hands depending loosely
between his knees, and the ^dll held Between
the finger and thumb of each hand. Without
any sign of haste or anger, or any new resolve,
he tore the document across leisurely, and with
no look of emotion laid the two pieces together
and tore them through. Then, in the same
listless way, he took the poker, hollowed out
the fire a little, wished the paper fragments
into the hollow, and beat down the fire upon
them.

Brother George sipped whisky and water

VOL. I. e:

to conceal his smile. Any sort of facial demonstration
was rare with him, but this action
of old Joe's was in its way 'a foretaste of triumph
for the clumsy schemer, and that soft glow of
satisfaction warmed his heart so well that he
could not keep its reflection from his face. He
might have grinned his broadest, for old Joe
never looked at him.

Twelve months to a day,' said Joe, with
his hands still hanging lax before him, and
his eyes upon the fire, 'twelve months to a
day.'

What was twelve months to a day? ' asked
the other.

'From the time he went,' said old Joe
listlessly, ' to the time her died.' Then he
said ' Twelve months to a day ' again, and^sat
silent for a long time.

A ian with an atom of perception in him
would have been keenly touched — must have
been touched — by the complete forlornness of
the old man's face, and voice, and attitude;
but George, being by nature wooden, and by
cultivation hardened, laid an unsympathetic

hand upon, this brother's shoulder, and congratulated
him.

I am glad to see you bear it so easy, .'


Old Joe looked at him slowly, dropped his
head again, and murmured, ' Twelve months to
a day.'

Have a glass o' grog,' said George. It
was not his own liquor, and he could afford to
be generous with it. ' It'll warm the cockles
of your heart, and do you good.'

He took the kettle from the hearth, mixed
a stiff glass, and set it on the hob beside his
brother.

Jones her maiden name was,' said old Joe.
'We was married at the parish church. A
good wife for five-and-thirty years was my
Eebecca. A good wife.'

Yes,' said Brother George, ' her was a fine
personable figure of a woman, and a savin' manager.
Yes, Joe, her was all that, an' her's no
doubt better off.'

To this genially spoken commendation the
widower made no answer. Brother George feU

K 2

to thinking as to what the mourner's fortune
might amount to.

In the silence of the room a murmur broke
upon his thoughts.

Eh ? ' said George.

It was a twelvemonth to a day,' said old
Joe vacantly. I hasn't well, George,' he added.
I think I'll goo upstairs an' lay down a bit.'

Ah, do,' said Brother George. ' And I'll
wait here till you've had a rest.'

Old Joe, lent strangely, with his massive
arms dependent like weights from his broad
shoulders, bored his way slowly out of the
room, and went heavily upstairs. George sat
absorbed in halcyon visions. Two hundred
and fifty thousand pounds. Call it two hundred
thousand. A wooden man ; a dull, slow,
unperceptive, unimaginative man. And yet,
what visions haunted that dim brain of his and
warmed his chilly heart ! The summer afternoon
wore down to summer evening, and
George took a comfortable tea in his brother's
parlour, and returning to the kitchen sat and
smoked and sipped his grog, until it grew too

dark for him to see the wreaths of smoke
Which curled about his head. He called to
the ruddy servant, who sat alone in the back
kitchen.

Sarah, go upstairs and call the master,
there's a good wench.'

The girl clamped upstairs and tapped at
the sleeper's door. There came no answer, and
she rapped again. She called downstairs, saying
that she could not make him hear.

He's pretty sound asleep, then,' said
Brother George. ' Leave him to it. I'll go
away home.'

He put on the crape-bound hat, and walked
gravely to his own house, and slept the sleep
of the just. His dreams were bright ^vith the
gleam of two hundred thousand pounds. He
sat at breakfast in the morning, and the sunbeams
flowing through the window were
mellow with the same auriferous shine. There
came a hurried knock at the door, and George's
servant, beinor encased at the back of the
house, left her master to answer it. He found
his brother's clumsy Black Country serving-wench

standing on the doorstep with blanched
cheek, and eyes full of terror.

I've fetched the doctor,' she gasped breathlessly,
' an' he says he must ha' been dead afore
you left the house last night.'

George fell back against the wall of the
passage.

Dead ! ' he gasped ; ' who's dead ? '

Your brother Joseph, said the girl.

Here THE Prologue CLOSES.

CHAPTEE VII.

FouE-AXD-TWEXTY years have gone by since the
prologue opened ^ old Joe and his wife have
lain side by side in Ebenezer Graveyard for
years three-and-twenty. The baby is a young
man with moustaches and a sweetheart, and
his mother is getting on towards middle age, if
an earthly pilgrimage of forty-two years maybe
supposed to have borne a pretty woman sofar.
Daniel's thin legs nowadays will scarcely
carry him, and he is more than eighty years of
age. His wife died half a score of years ago.
and took her pious fraud to the grave with her.
Errant Joe's uncle George is over sixty, and is
mightily prosperous and somewhat swollen outwith
worldly grandeur. For over a score of
years nobody has heard of errant Joe, and to
the minds of his contemporaries he is as dead

as Nebuchadnezzar. To Dinali he remains an
unchangeable, fixed figure. Whilst other
young men have grown into middle age, whilst
they wear garments of the fashion of 1874 and
have grown wizened or burly according to
their nature, young Joe in her remembrance
remains in the garb in which she last beheld
him : no older, no stouter or thinner ; a blue-eyed
young fellow still, with blooming cheeks
and a downy bit of whisker. If anywhere
alive, young Joe is five-and-forty by this time,
and young Joe no longer ; but in Dinah's
remembrances of him. Time stands still. In
short, madam, you were just married when the
tale opened, and yesterday you cried and
smiled at the wedding breakfast of your second
daughter. And you, sir, were in a round
jacket and a broad collar at Eton, with no
notion that the wave of a Conservative reaction
would drift you into Parliament to denounce
the Opposition in well-prepared impromptu
epigram, or to demand from your place to be
instructed by the right honourable gentleman
at the head of Her Majesty's Government. A

great space of time. Let it pass in this story
as it passes in much more tremendous
chronicles — like a breath.

Dinah Banks, or Bushell, was a simpleminded
woman, and all these years she had
passively defrauded herself and her child of a
great fortune which was legitimately theirs.
George, her son, was not the sort of person to
be defrauded of any rights he knew of, but he
was as ignorant of these as poor Sir Eager
before this time proved himself to be of his
dear mother's Christian name. Since Daniel's
early days, times had changed a good deal.
He had little sympathy with the new crotchet
of education ; but it is hard for simple folks
like Daniel to swim against the tide, and the
lad went to the great Grammar School in
Birmingham and swallowed his modicum of
Latin and Euclid and Algebra, and grew up
quite a superior young person, with a natural
disdain for home associations and a genuine
contempt for his putative father which would
have done credit to a princely fairy changeling.
Daniel humoured the lad in everything, as old

fathers sometimes will humour sons ; and the
boy himself bullied where he could, and had
his own way royally when he was sure of it.
As he grew up, the fraud his mother had
practised bore very bitter fruit. Her child
scorned her in spite of her tenderness, and
spoke scoffingly of her as an old maid with old-maids
fancies when she would stay him from
participation in this or that boyish freak or
folly. I have not the heart to tell how she
suffered and in what mean ways. Things that
to a sister would have been little troubles
magnified themselves to the mother's heart,
and every day in all these dreary years her
soul cried out for the child's love, and yearned
unsatisfied. It was a proof, perhaps, of great
sweetness of nature that she remained comely
still, and that even in some eyes she grew more
beautiful as Time touched her. It was commonly
said of her that she wore a motherly
rather than an old-maidish air, and, indeed, she
had grown buxom and a little portly. Her
eyes were sad, but wonderfully sweet and affectionate.
She had offers of marriage in profusion

; but declined them all, for no reason that
the neighbours could divine, and lived solely
for her child and her memories of his father.
There are among women many thousands of
such faithful hearts, who suffer much, but have
their reward now and then even in this hard
world.

Visible from the upper bed-room windows
of the Saracen is a range of hills, of perhaps
twelve or thirteen hundred feet elevation, the
only notable thing in the landscape. They are
not more than four miles away, and they
naturally draw the eye of a stranger from the
surrounding dead level. Under the shadow of
that low range of hills, on the farther side, lies
as charming a bit of country as you may look
for in a quiet way in England — a rich undulating
landscape, nth meadow and cornfield, and
noble timber here and there, all gathering an
added charm from the fact that by a walk of
half a mile you may command a view of
another valley, lurid with vast columns of fiery
smoke and the red tongues of furnace flame
that leap at the low skies. Lying in any field

about that pleasant stretch of country on a
quiet day in summer, beneath skies whose blue
is somewhat toned by the thin gauze of outlying
smoke-clouds, you may hear afar off the
great heart of giant Labour beating ; and
standing still at night, when sound travels
farther, you can catch the clank of iron and
the shuddering roar or shrill shriek of distant
engines, or even the dull thud of the forge
hammer. And even in the pleasant valley
itself, when you might fancy that you had
strayed unaware into the very heart of
Agricola's realm, when the ferns are unrolling
their crown-like scrolls, and the dog-rose is
opening from the bud, and the air is sickly
sweet with the heavy scent of the may, you
come sauntering to a little rise and look
about you, and you see pit-stacks in the
distance sending up their blue curls of smoke,
and pit frames with gliding chains above them,
filmy-fine.

On the lower slope of one of these hills I
knows a farmhouse, so old that its outside walls
have grown grey and rimy like the rind of a

Stilton cheese. Great beams of timber cross
its front, and here and there its lines have
swayed picturesquely out of their first prim
drawing. Dormer windows peep from the
roof: the chimney stacks are Elizabethan, but
the rest of the house is a sort of architectural
dream made concrete. The building: is all
gables and corners outside, and within there
are little flights of unexpected stairs in unexpected
places, and a stranger finds himself
intruding on rooms in which he has no business,
and wondering how they got there. All
the windows are diamond, and the panes held
together by little strips of lead. The floors are
sunken in a curious way, and the inner walls
warp to this side or that in such a fashion as to
give you an impression of being somehow in a
house at sea. But the old place is solid and
sturdy, pinned together as it is by its huge oak
beams, and it may stand for hundreds of years
yet in defiance of wind and weather.

Behind this fine old house there is a fine
old garden, where in their season ten week-stocks
and silly-flowers and bachelor's buttons

and other such homely blossoms grow with
roses red and white, and lilies pale and golden.
Here are hoary apple-trees bearing wonderful
fruit, plum-trees, damson-trees, pear-trees, and
a little forest of gooseberry bushes. And in
great strips between the flower-beds, or edged
round with flowers and tangled aromatic
bushes, there are spaces set apart for the
culture of the homely cabbage and cauliflower,
the pungent cachalot and others of its tribe.
Everything seems more or less entangled with
everything else in this delightful, disorderly old
garden. The sides of its walks are edged with
box and moss-grown, and its high brick walls,
mellow with age, are thick with lichens.
Walking here on any summer day you are at
liberty to forget that there is any such thing
as a forge, a foundry, a coal-mine, a smoke-cloud
in the world. Yet even here, if you
listen closely, you may hear great Labour's
muffled heart beat two or three miles away,
and beyond the hills at night-time the sky is
livid red. There are gardens as old-fashioned
and profuse in growth in many places, I daresay

— gardens moliere the same homely blossoms
blow, and the same scents perfume the air, and
the same spirit of retired Quiet dwells ; but
they lack the charm of this retreat for the most
part, because they have not its singular contrast
of neighbourhood. Ashen by good chance you
meet amongst those ' fair Circassians,' of whom
so many fables have been told, a woman with
any decent pretensions to good looks — when
you see a star hinting through the late-divided
storm wrack — when you see the pearl upon the
Ethiop's arm — when you see (if ever you do)
Mr. Leigh Hunt's beautiful symbol of the lily
in the mouth of Tartarus — you know what
advantages you expect to get out of contrast.
Those advantages are here, in this old garden's
neighbourhood, with smoke and fire, and the
amazing travail of the earth about it.

The Donne family had lived in the old
house for many generations and farmed the
land which surrounded it. The fact that in
the parish churchyard there was a tombstone
bearing their name, and dated as far back as
the year 1613, proved that the family was substantial

and respectable more than two centuries
ago. At the beginning of the seventeenth
century it was not everybody who , was honoured
with a tombstone. The stones came
down from that date almost without a break; —
loin Aldley Dunne succeeded by loin Aldley
Dunne for nigh a hundred years, and being
followed by other Johns whose J's had long
and curly tails. It was at the beginning of the
curly J period that the spelling of the names
was changed, Audley being substituted for
Aldley, and Donne for Dunne. There were
many Dunne Alleys, too, buried in the
churchyard, and the two families had evidently
been somehow tied together.

In the year 1870 the male branch of the
Donnes became extinct, and there were now
left but two women to bear the old name —
Mrs. Donne, a notable woman, widow of the
late farmer, and her daughter Ethel. Now, in
that part of the country people go, as a rule,
for Scriptural appellations, and the old English
feminine names are neglected. It may perhaps
be accepted as corroborative of other evidence

in favour of some old standing in the family
that it held a distinctive feminine name again
and again repeated. Below the record of loin
Aldley Dunne's years and virtues ran this
legend : ' Also Ethyl hys wyfe, aetas 48, obiit
lune 2, 1621. Also Ethyl, infant child of y'
above.' When the present Ethel was christened,
Mr. Borge, her godfather, had objected
to the name as bringing ill-luck with it. He
founded himself on tombstone evidence, and
pointed out the fact that four Ethel had died
in maidenhood. His superstitions were derided ;
but Mr Borge always protested ' he snowed illud
come on it,' and was the more firmly fixed
in his belief by the fact that the baby suffered
from convulsions while teething. A pretty
smart attack of croup and some extra trouble
in regard to measles were currently held to
have justified the Borgia vaticinations. But
the baby grew to girlhood, and the girl became
a young woman, without anything more terrible
than those infant maladies encountered by the
way.

Ethel Donne was nearly nineteen years of

VOL. I. L •

age, and a very charming and beautiful young
woman. Her beauty was not of the kind you
see in London drawing-rooms or at the opera,
but much more robust and blooming and
delicate. Her complexion bore looking at, and
was admirably waterproof. Ill-natured young
women, her compeers, said that her hair was
carroty,' from which I desire you to argue
that it was of the colour painters have loved to
paint —

In gloss and hue the chestnut when the husk
Divides three-fold to show the fruit within,

as Mr. Tennyson says. Her eyes were hazel
and full of mirth and honesty. Her skin was
of red rose and white ; not the dead lily
colour which poets have so often and so falsely
feigned, but white rose with the faintest live
blush in it. Her features were not those of a
Greek statue, fortunately, but they were fairly
regular. The dear little nose, in particular,
was very daintily modelled, and her hips and
teeth — to speak of rubies and pearls is to
desecrate the beauties of flesh and blood and

ivory. To see her figure at its full advantage
you should perhaps have beheld her in the act
of hanging out the family washing to dry in
that old garden, or ^vith a hayrake in the
meadows. To say that she was unaware of her
manifold natural advantages would be to portray
her as a very foolish young person. Shakespeare
thought fit to put into the mouth of a
fool the statement that there never was fair
maid but made mouths in a glass ; but it is
probable that he himself believed it. For one
prodigy of nature you can show me where a
pretty young woman honestly thinks herself
plain, I will undertake to find you five hundred
natiu-al-minded, lovable young women who,
being passably plain, think themselves pretty ;
and a very proper and kindly ordinance of
nature this provision is. Let us think well of
ourselves and be happy. The male animal has
no right to conceit himself on the score of
personal modesty. A very popular writer of
essays, who is not beautiful, has made confession
in print that he feels a pleasurable sensation in
looking at his own reflection in a mirror. I

may not have the courage to follow his bold
example with a like confession.

But more than mere good sense, of which
she had plenty, her own free nature saved
her from the canker of self consciousness, and
she had a certain merry scorn of mere personal
vanity. She was country-bred, but not unpolished,
though unvarnished. She had a
natural art in music, cultivated, not to perfection,
but to a fair growth ; and, being natural
with her, it enabled her to accompany a singer
with grace and fineness, and to sing a simple
ballad in a way which even cultured listeners
found attractive. Her secular music was mostly
antiquated, and was made up chiefly of the
songs of Purcell and Shield and Arne, with one
or two of Haydn's canzonets. Her knowledge
of sacred music went little further than ' The
Messiah,' ' The Creation,' and Mozart's ' Twelfth
Mass ' would carry her. She read French fairly
well ; but her knowledge of the literature of
that language was confined to Lamar tine's
Heroes and Heroines of the Revolution ' and
Yolney's ' Ruins of Empire.' Notwithstanding

the latter, she was orthodox. M. Volley, after
the elegant rhapsodies with which he opens,
was, indeed, for the most part Greek to her.

In household virtues she was a treasure, and
was mistress of all the arts of the dairy. She
made rare butter and the crispest, lightest
pastry ; and knew how, if called upon, to wash
and bake, and even brew. I remember her
mother's damson cheese, and they say that
Ethel was her mother's mistress. In short, a
charming girl, with rare housewifely qualities,
and fit to make a prince a wife, if princes had
the good luck to be allowed to choose, as we
happy plebeians have.

It is not to be supposed for a moment that
all these charms and virtues were allowed to
lie unclaimed by the adventurous young manhood
of the region. Lovers clustered around
her like flies about a honeypot, else were she
no fit heroine of mine. The Quarrymoor farm
ran into three hundred acres, and every inch
was freehold, and she the heiress of it. Why
should she not be courted ?

The parish church was so situate that there

was a pleasant walk to it in summer time from
three or four parishes in the neighbourhood,
and gay young bachelors from several townships,
with their sisters and sweethearts, would
stroll out on peaceful Sunday evenings, after a
four-o'clock tea following on a one-o'clock
dinner, and save themselves from any sense of
spending the day unwittingly by dropping in at
the Old Church, and would then saunter home
again in the calm dusk, refreshed by a glance at
country green and a taste of country air. Ethel
drilled the choir and played the wheezy organ,
and had delight in this part of her life. She
searched for voices far and near, and strove to
impress their owners into her band, and by-and-by
got up quite a respectable assemblage
of singers. Then it was decided that the organ
should be replaced — you heard the bellows
wheeze and rattle even when the instrument
was in full blast; and it was settled between
Ethel and the Vicar that, as a first step towards
this consummation, there should be holden in
the schoolroom a public soiree. This meant
the traditional teafight, with the addition of

ham sandwiches to the ordinary provisions, and
a concert interspersed with readings afterwards.
Ethel entered into the scheme with great
fervour. The magnates of the immediate
locality were impressed — none of them very
tremendous people ; and Lors. Hick gave a tray
of cake, and Mrs. Since a ham of her own
curing, and Mrs. Warrington, of the Moist,
six pounds of tea, and Mrs. Jones a batch of
household bread, and somebody else a basket of
dairy butter. The ladies who gave gifts had
the right to preside at the tables, and when the
time came they were gay with festive ribbons
and sat above their cates with proprietors
smile. But before the time came Ethel had
much to do in rehearsing the choir in part-songs
sidled fifom her own little repertoire —
Blow, Gentle Gales,' and * Spotted Snakes,'
and the like. The rehearsals were held in the
school-room, and very pleasant they were "vvith
their mixture of fun and formality ; but the
foundress of the festival had her troubles, and
chief among them was the want of a tenor who
could take the high A nati-al without cracking

on it. All the young gentlemen of the choir
who sang tenor through their noses could get
at it more or less by dint of choking ; but she
yearned for somebody who would not choke,
and in the nick of time he came.

'Miss Donne,' said the Vicar one dusky
evening, clamping noisily into the schoolroom,
and beginning to speak as soon as he had
passed the door ; ' I have brought you a recruit.
Allow me to introduce to you Mr. George
Banks. Miss Donne, Mr. Banks.'

Ethel rose from her seat at the piano to
receive him. The light was so dim that she
could make out nothing but a tall and well-set
figure — Mr. George was a volunteer — and a
pair of pretty broad shoulders.

Mr. Banks is a tenor. Miss Donne,' said the
Vicar, ' and I have induced him to promise his
assistance at our soiree.^

I shall be most happy to be of service, I
am sure,' said Mr. George Banks in a tenor
voice of considerable sweetness. To Ethel's
ear the tone had culture and refinement in it,
and the speaking voice carried promise. It was

softer and lighter than men's voices commonly
are, but it was clear and round. The Vicar
l3egan to drag a form about the room and to
light the gas, and Ethel saw before her a good-looking
young fellow, ^vith brown hair, and
eyes, a palish complexion, and a fair sweeping
moustache, which gave him perhaps a handsomer
look than his features deserved. The
moustache was silky and long, and the young
man's brown hair was parted in the middle and
carefully groomed. He was dressed quietly
and in good taste, and bore her scrutiny without
embarrassment. Ethel's first view was
eminently favourable.

You have music with you,' she said.
'Perhaps you will give us a solo at the
soiree ? '

With very great pleasure,' he responded.

I dare say, now,' thought the girl, ' that
he can sing. They generally make such a fuss
when they can't. It timed out that Mr. Banks
could sing nicely ; not so well as he thought,
perhaps, but he was pleasant to listen to, and
that for an amateur tenor is something. The

high A presented no difficulties to him. ' You
will be a great accession to us, Mr. Banks,' said
Ethel gratefully. ' I am very much obliged to
you for coming.'

'Not at all,' protested Mr. Banks. But,
walking homeward with Miss Donne and the
Vicar, the artful youth drew out the fact that
the lady had a soprano voice, and hinted at the
preparation of a duet or two. The Vicar
seconded him, and Ethel felt a great desire
to sing with somebody who really could sing.
That was a pleasure she had never enjoyed ;
and Mr. Banks and the Vicar were, in brief, invited
to the farmhouse, and by its hospitable
mistress pressed to take supper. They consented
; and whilst the meal was getting ready,
Ethel and the new-comer tried over ' The
Minute Gun at Sea,' and arranged for themselves
a tenor and treble rendering of * All's
Well.' The Vicar was delighted, and his
delight took a practical turn.

Eeally, Miss Donne,' said the Vicar, ' we
ought to raise the prices.'

It transpired at table that Mr. Banks had a

four miles' walk before him, and everybody
was quite sympathetic with him on that account.
He declared that he really didn't mind
it, and in fact he set out upon it in evident
high good spirits. The young man had finessed
for this meeting with some skill, and, hearing
of the coming soiree had induced a friend to
mention him and his vocal powers to the
Vicar, had unobtrusively thrown himself in
that good man's way, and procured an easy
invitation. He had seen Ethel once by chance
a year before, and of set purpose many a time
since then, and had longed to speak to her,
but had never been able to approach her until
now. He could see that he had made a favourable
impression to begin with, and he resolved
to improve it.

There were more rehearsals before the
eventful night came ; and Mr. Banks, although
much too wary to introduce any other messengers,
who might have turned out unpleasant,
brought an ugly old fellow who fluted like an
angel, and he threw himself into the musical
preparations with so much ardour that Ethel

was charmed with him. He was the most
active and obliging young man she had encountered,
and the frequency with which he
contrived excuses for meeting her did credit to
the fertility of his fancy. She found no fault
with this, and thought it all natural enough.
She took Mr. Banks for a musical enthusiast ;
and so he was, by a quibble. He was musical
after a fashion, and he was enthusiastic — in his
admiration of himself and Miss Donne. He
could not help thinking what a beautiful couple
they would make. The young man's forte was
not personal modesty. ' Hang it all,' he had
been known to plead, ' I haven't any sympathy
with that confounded cant which tells a good-looking
fellow that he ought to pretend to be
unaware of his own advantages.' He broke
out thus pretty often upon John Keen, his
chum. ' I'm not an Adonis, I know.' ' No,'
John would answer, 'you ain't, old man.'
'But I should pass in a crowd,' Mr. Banks
would flow on, silently contemning satire ;
and I should be an ass not to know it.' John
was a long-haired young man, careless of his

personal aspect and at feud with society. He
made war against convention by smoking in
the streets, and by wearing a broad-brimmed
felt and his shabbiest coat on Sundays. These
habits and an open warfare with the Eeverend
Jabez Wallier, of Zion, gave John a republican,
communistic, free-thinking sort of reputation
with the graver seniors of the town. George
Banks and he had been at school together, and
were companions still, with next to nothing in
common. In an incautious moment Lir.
Banks mentioned the approaching soiree and
its date.

I'll go to Quarrymoor with you,' said
John Keen ; and George, who could not very
well object to this, gave way to it with an ill
grace. ' You don't mean to say,' said John,
who had or affected the merest suspicion of the
local drawl, ' that you're going to get into a
claw-hammer coat for this business, do you?'
George had been giving elaborate instructions
to a Birmingham tailor about a new dress-suit,
which must be ready before Thursday.

I'm not a barbarian,' said he, ' if you are.

Of course I shall dress for it.' John had a dry
and aggravating slow smile, which looked as if
it meant something. It came into play now,
and now, as always, affected his companion
unpleasantly. ' What have you to grin at ? '
George asked, with some show of temper.

What has anybody got to grin at on this
filthy planet ? ' asked John ; but he smiled,
nevertheless, with a look of uncertain humour.
George had an uneasy suspicion that his friend
was smiling at him.

The evening came, and George appeared
resplendent. Anxious as he was to meet Miss
Donne, he was careful not to mar the eclat of
his advent by too early an arrival, and only
turned up when the tables had been cleared
and put away and the seats arranged. Most
of the natives had never seen a man in evening
dress before, and they regarded him with
critical wonder. After his first' song a burly,
red-faced man of genial aspect cried aloud,
Three cheers for the mon i' the shirt-front ! '
and the ditty was loudly redemanded. George
sang again with a readiness which established

Mm as a popular favourite, and when Ethel
and he appeared together the enthusiasm was
tremendous. It was a great night for Quarry-moor.
A local celebrity had written a poem
for the occasion.

Good people all, I hope yo'm well,
An' as yo' an' your tay '11 agree ;

For my own part, I'n a tail to tell
About this heeur Warren.

This composition ran into ninety verses, and
the bard was so tickled with his own humour
that now and again he laughed till the tears
ran, and the audience roared ^vith him and at
him. He rhymed array with ' ham and buns
and tay ' ; he rhymed swarri with ' summer
sky ' ; and in the last verse he well-nigh killed
the Vicar by an evident but unfulfilled intention
to make the much-tortured last syllable
jingle with ' me and you.' The majority
laughed because the act of laughter is catching,
and because the example was set them by the
gentlefolks. Otherwise, they would have sat
to see the word more knocked about even than
it had been, conscious of a necessity for poetic

licence in its handling. The bard was the hit
of the evening ; and an hour later, when he
could trust himself, John Keen congratulated
him upon his success. ' Well, mister,' said the
local lion with a sort of proud humility, ' it
seat everybody as can write poetry.' John
went outside and sat upon a tombstone, and
gave his heart to mirth.

Meantime, Mr. Banks made large strides in
the good graces of Miss Donne. I suppose you
would not give much for a story which had no
chronicle of love-making. I think it is Ager
the son of Jake who, in reciting the words of
wisdom which his mother taught him, expresses
his wonder at ' the way of a man with a maid.'
It was wonderful so long ago, and it is still
wonderful. The literature of love-making is
beyond computation, and the simple theme still
pleases. '

CHAPTEE VIII

It befell that, after the soiree at Quarrymoor,
Mr. George Banks began to profess an extraordinary
interest in matters antiquarian, and to
poke about at odd hours in the old church,
copying brasses and making sketches of a
marble lord of the manor who lay on his back
in a neglected corner of the building. John
Keen, his chum, had a sort of double-barrelled
profession, being both solicitor and mine
surveyor ; but his natural tastes were towards
architecture, and it was to him that George was
indebted for his new pursuit. John, having
seen Ethel, followed George's example and fell
in love with her. It came quite naturally to
him to haunt the old church in the hope of
seeing her, and George learned the lesson and
availed himself of it. So the two young men

VOL. I. M

used to dodge each other in a rather guilty
way on leisure afternoons, and once or twice,
with mutual ire and astonishment, met at the
church.

I have already told you that George Bushell
had inherited his brother Joseph's fortune. He
throve mightily, aid became a local magnate,
signing himself J.P. and being much looked
up to. He was a member of the Conservative
Central Committee for the county, and had
embarked in great mining speculations, and
was in these days a staunch Churchman. In
affairs ecclesiastical, political, and commercial
he came into contact with the best sort of
people, and was highly respected. If his
money had betrayed him into any pretence of
fashion, he would no doubt have been laughed
at ; but he behaved with much reticence and
modesty, and people naturally spoke well of
him. No repentance troubled him, and young
Joe, his ill-starred nephew, had faded out of
memory years ago. Amongst other enterprises
of his, he had bought shares in a local bank,
and had bought so largely that he might almost

be said to have been the bank's proprietor.
He held mines under all sorts of business conditions,
and he employed some twenty or thirty
clerks at his offices. These, like everybody
else in his pay, worked under his own supervision
; and amongst them, and high in favour,
was George Banks, who, of course, had he only
known it, was George Bushell, and legal owner
of the desk he sat at, the ledger he made
entries in, and the vast estate upon which he
was employed. Old Daniel, George's supposed
father, had plenty of money, but he would not
have the lad trained in idleness. The Saracen
was but a little part of the old man's belongings,
and George, being acknowledged heir to
everything, was lordly with his fellow-clerks
and flush of pocket-money. His financial position
went with other things to make him a
favourite with his employer, and he had freedoms
and advantages which his compeers
envied.

On the Saturday afternoon which followed
the Quarrymoor entertainment, George called
upon his employer. ]vir. Bushell, intensely

respectable to begin with, had by this time
grown imposing in appearance. He wore the
high collars and the large stock of twenty
years' earlier date, and his hair was silvery.
His hands, though large with early labour, had
grown soft and plump and white ; and his
black broadcloth dress, if staid and old-fashioned,
was of the best material and cut.
He affected some homeliness of custom, and
amongst them he preserved the habit of
smoking a long churchwarden clay. This one
practice was of considerable value to him, for
it lent him a certain patriarchal and unaffected
look, and greenhorns said that it showed simplicity
of character. The Wrongful Heir satin
dull dignity, and the Eightful Heir smirked
before him with propitiatory smile.

I have called, sir,' said the favoured clerk
with suavity, ' to ask a favour. My father's
affairs are growing a little too heavy for his
hands, and he himself is getting old, sir, as you
know. If you could spare me upon an occasional
Wednesday afternoon, I could be of
more service to him than I am at present.'

Mr. Banks,' said the usurper, ' no man can
serve two masters.' Mr. Bushell was familiar
with many texts out of Scripture, and most of
the passages which stuck in his memory appeared
to make for his advantage, so that he
regarded the sacred vohm^e with respect, as a
storehouse of useful aphorism. But the clerk
knew his way with him.

I am sure, sir,' he answered, ' that I am
fully sensible of the favour I ask, and of course
I know that it is not business-like. But I
should be most happy if you would allow me
to make up the deficiency I propose to create
on other evenings. My father is jealous about
entrusting his business to other hands, and
his affairs are becoming: considerable.'

Mr. Bushell, being well-to-do himself,
naturally liked to have well-to-do people about
him. He abhorred poverty. It Avant to
borrow, which was bad ; or to beg, which was
worse ; and it made itself disagreeable in many
ways. It presented facilities for being ground
down, which could not be looked for in people
in prosperous circumstances ; but this mere

amelioration left the main evils of it unchecked.


'I'll think about it, Mr. Banks,' said the
usurper ; and the Eightful Heir, having bowed
and smirked himself away, walked to Quarry-moor
attired in festal raiment. Three miles out
he overtook John Keen, and on first sighting
him was disposed to drop behind ; but so slight
a matter as the direction of the summer wind
made that inconvenient. For John was lighting
a pipe, and, in turning his back upon the wind
to do it, he faced George. The young men
met with a confused attempt at indifferent
good-fellowship, and of course each thought
the other abominably in the way.

Lovely weather, isn't it ? ' said George.

Admirable,' said John. There was a dry,
aggravating air of self-possession about this
young man, even when he was least self-possessed.
He said little at most times, but he
always gave George an impression that he was
thinking with cutting smartness. In point of
fact John inspired a feeling of something very
like terror in George's mind.

Where are you off to ? ' asked George
with a great effort.

'I am going to make some sketches in
Qiiarrymoor Church,' John answered. ' There
are some stunning brasses there, too, and the
pulpits very interesting.' George sketched a
little in a mechanical South Kensington manner,
and had wasted the evenings of a year or two
of his life at the Birmingham Ait School ; but
he scarcely knew whether his companion was
chaffing him or not. Ethel practised on the
organ on Saturday afternoons, and George was
bound to the church to listen to her, and a
guilty conscience needs no accuser. This talk
about an interesting pidpit sounded like satire
under the circumstances ; but George controlled
himself, and said simply : —

I'll come with you, if you don't mind.'

Very glad, I am sure,' John responded
hypocritically ; and they went on in mutual
distrust of each other. ' This dandified duffer,'
thought John to himself, ' can't be sneaking
after ]\Iiss Donne, can he ? She's worth a
million of him.' George, on the other hand.

felt a sort of right over the young lady, and,
like a lover, was ready to be jealous. Of
course he acknowledged that his rights were as
yet exceedingly vague ; but they were there
somehow, and he wasn't going to have that
fellow Keen trampling on them.

Quarrymoor Church had a squat Norman
tower of great antiquity, and its lines were too
ugly to be made pleasant even by its clustering
mosses and ivy. Yet it was pleasing to the
eyes of these young men when once their ears
had assured them that the shrine held their
own divinity. Ethel was in the organ loft, improvising
on the wheezy organ, unconscious of
listeners. And if she had dreams which were
not altogether in character with the place, I,
for one, am not disposed to be very hard upon
her. She was thinking of a young man with
broad shoulders and a tenor voice, and the
voice spoke to her even in the broken-winded,
asthmatic music of the old organ. It was
dusky up there, though the sun blazed hot and
bright outside ; and in the cool dimness of the
place Ethel saw the eyes of the tenor voiced

yoiing man, and thought them very tender and
honest. In truth, their brown inclined a trifle
too much to green, and they were something
too near together, and had to the observant
physiognomist a furtive and even frightened
look. The rivals stole into the church on tiptoe,
and John began to sketch the recumbent lord
of the manor, George making a pretence of
watching him; and both of them yearned a
little over the wheezy voluntary, which, after
all, was played by Love's own hands. They
said not a word to each other for an hour, and
just as the sketch was finished they heard Ethel
closing the organ. Then a ridiculous tremor
fell upon them, and the girl, coming in sight of
them unexpectedly, shared it to the full ; but,
showing nothing of it, advanced and shook
hands with both, and, leading the way to the
porch, covered her own confusion by examining
the drawing there to John's satisfaction and
George's engagement. But Mr. Banks was too
good a diplomatist to display his anger openly,
and explained suavely how his visit to the
church was entirely due to Mr. Keen's artistic

enthusiasm, how he was taking a walk and fell
in with Mr. Keen, how Mr. Keen was going
sketching, how he availed himself of that opportunity
to take a closer look at the antiquities
of which the Vicar had spoken, and
how delighted he had been to listen to Miss
Donne's playing.

The poor old organ,' said Miss Donne, ' is
in a sad condition.'

Worst instrument I ever heard,' said
clumsy, downright John. Ethel was hurt at
this. You may pity an old friend broken by
time and asthma, but you do not care to hear
anybody speak bitterly of his infirmities.
George had more tact, and caught exactly the
light tone of half-affectionate regret.

I dare say,' said he, ' that you won't like
the new organ half so well as this.' Ethel
looked at him almost with gratitude.

How well he understands one ! ' she
thought. ' ! ' she said aloud, unwilling to bethought
sentimental, ' it won't have the associations
at first, but of course it will be a much
finer instrument.'

I beg yoiir pardon,' said John, ' for pitching
into the old organ. I forgot that it was a
Mend of yours. That makes every difference.'
Ethel smiled at this, and John continued. ' I've
a queer old square box of a piano that I learned
to play on. I can't have it tuned because the
wires would pull it off its legs if I did, and all
the chords are loose. I like it, somehow,
though.'

'That is precisely how I feel about the
organ,' said Ethel, readily forgiving him.

Confound the fellow ! ' said George to himself.
' He's getting sentimental now ! '

Miss Donne did not ask the young men to
enter the farmhouse, but bade them good-bye
at the gate, and they walked home together in
rather an ill-humoured way. George betook
himself to the Dudley Arms and sought the
delights of a shilling pool an hour or two earlier
than usual, and, being out of temper, played
badly ; and, playing badly, lost ; and, losing,
strove to recoup himself by bets. Losing in
that direction also, he went home in a very
savage condition, disposed to quarrel with anybody.

Old Daniel, who closed his house at
eleven o'clock, had gone to bed an hour ago ;
but Dinah was sitting up for her son, and on
his entry she saw that he was sullen and out of
temper. Indeed, George's tenor voice did not
often make home musical.

I've laid out a nice bit o' supper for you,
George,' said Dinah, quaking a little, but affecting
not to see the lowering look upon his face.

I don't want any supper,' said George,
throwing himself moodily into an armchair,
and diving both hands deep into his pockets.

Won't you eat a bit, my dear ? ' asked
Dinah.

'No,' said George, with undignified
mockery ; ' I won't eat a bit, my dear. Who
the deuce asked you to sit up for me ? '

Dinah returned no answer ; and the young
man, whose sulks were always a little young-womanish,
felt a feminine sense of spite at her
quietude. It angered him more than any
retort would have done.

Confound it ! ' he broke out, his tenor
voice sounding in its petulance quite shrill and

querulous, ' can't you leave a man alone ?
Sitting up to watch what time of night I come
in, and spying on me when I go out ! You can
go to bed now, anyway.'

Yes, dear,' said Dinah submissively, ' I will.
But I wish you'd eat a bit.'

Well, then,' snapped Miss Donne's lover,
you'll have your wish for your trouble. Goto
bed.'

The last straw breaks the camel's back, but,
before that consummation can be arrived at, a
good many straws must have been heaped up.
Dinah's womanly patience had endured for four-and-twenty
years, and through all that dreary
time she had kept her secret. She had often
so yearned to tell it to her son, that her whole
soul had seemed to ache with the effort of repression,
and every fibre of her body had
thrilled with unsatisfied longing. But she had
never been so near to the actual revelation
as she was now. Human affection, like everything
else in the world, is intermittent, and has
its ebbs and flows. The tide of motherly longing
and unsatisfied desire of love had been

running high all day in Dinah's heart. She
did not cry easily ; women who have endured
real and lasting sorrows rarely do, for tears
have a knack of wearing out their channel
when they run too freely. But at George's last
rebuff the water sprang to her eyes with a
bitter little pang of actual physical pain, and
with glistening eyes she laid a timid hand upon
his shoulder.

'1 wish you'd be a bit kinder with me,
George,' she said.

'Then, why the dickens don't you let a
man alone? ' responded the injured George.

The urgent affection in the mother's heart
overflowed all bounds but one. She put her
arms about her son's neck, and laid her cheek
against his.

'You don't know how I love you, my
darling,' she said ; ' do give me a little bit o'
love back again, won't you ? '

Oh, be hanged! ' said George.

Dinah withdrew her hands and stood up as
if he had struck her. There was at least this
one poor excuse for the son of the errant Joe,

that he had no knowledge of the real relationship
between Dinah and himself. Perhaps one
other excuse he had may be reckoned a little
more cogent. He was a cad through and
through, and, being what he was, had no capacity
for the understanding of any unselfish
love ; and, wanting that capacity, could scarcely
guess his own power to wound. Let the
student of human nature be honest, and strive
to do justice to everybody. How far a cad is
answerable for being a cad is a subtle and perplexing
question. Only a fool would break a
half-gallon jug for not holding a gallon.

Why don't you get married ? ' said George ;
you've had chances enough. There's that
fellow BLince has asked you three times already,
and he's always hanging about the house now.'

Dinah stood silent. ]mr. Since was a
butcher, of prosperous circumstances and more
than middle age, and a second time widowed.
Some time before the death of his second wife
this gentleman had expressed his intention of
making Dinah IVIrs. EQnce the third. So far as
so gentle and affectionate a creature was able

to hate anybody, Dinali hated the prosperous
butcher.

Why don't you marry him ? ' said George,
newly aggrieved by the withdrawal of the
caress which had oJBTended him and by her
silence ; ' you'd better. I don't want to have
you on my hands all my life long.'

'Good-night, George,' said Dinah.

George was too surly to answer even so
small an overture of peace as this. But the
last word was precious to him, and he responded,
' Just you remember that ! '

Good night,' said Dinah meekly once
more.

Just you remember that ! ' her son repeated,
and she withdrew to her own room.

This, and many a like scene which had
gone before it, seemed to her self-accusing
mind the fit and proper punishment of the
deceit she had practised so many years ago.
She was not clever enough to formulate it to
herself; but she thought all punishment the
natural outgrowth of crime, and her own
girlish yielding to her lover's impetuous

demands for a secret marriage had long since
assumed criminal dimensions in her eyes.
Dinah being thus summarily and triumphantly
disposed of, it occurred to George that he did
want his supper after all, and he sat down to
the dish she had provided, and cleared it with a
gusto rather increased than otherwise by the
memory of the rebuff he had administered. As
almost anybody who ever beguiled an evening
by the consumption of alcoholic liquors
knows, there is a midnight appetite which
makes food singularly enjoyable, and George
enjoyed his supper. He drank a glass or two
of whisky after it, and went to bed, arising late
in the morning to breakfast on brandy and
soda. Beings blessed with a good constitution
to begin with, he freshened up on this unsubstantial
diet, and, after a stroll, returned to the
homely midday Sunday dinner, and played a
decent knife and fork there. An hour after
dinner, carefully groomed and dressed in excellent
taste, he walked to Quarrymoor, and,
encountering Ethel in the fields, greeted her in
his best manner with a winning smile. The

VOL. I. N

tenor voice was pleasant in the girl's ears, and
she had no guess as to how querulous it might
be. In the hours of courtship young people,
for the most part, see only the best side of each
other. I will not do Ethel the injustice to say
that she had but one side to show ; but at this
time, as nearly always, the best side declared
itself naturally and without effort. She thought
very highly of her companion, and though not
yet in love with him, she walked with a certain
tremulous gaiety towards the boundaries
of love's demesne, not altogether unconscious
of the direction in which her steps
were tending.

George himself, as becomes the male
animal under such circumstances, had more
pronounced and decided views with regard to
his own intentions. When a man is young, he
can fall in love with a pretty woman after a
fashion, without developing any particular
nobilities of sentiment. George was not uncultured.
His taste in poetry was not the highest;
but he had read a certain quantity of British
verse, and knew, or thought he knew, the sentiments

which were proper to entertain under
the circumstances. The beauties of nature, for
instance, came into his scheme of things, and he
invited Miss Donne to listen to the strains of a
skylark which made double holiday in the
Sunday air, freer of smoke-wreaths than common.
He stood with her upon the wooden
bridge that crossed a small bickering stream,
and asked her to guess in what key its murmured
music ran. This enquiry quite charmed
Ethel, seeming to indicate a love at once for
nature and for art. When a young woman is disposed
to think well of you, you need not be very
clever for her to think you clever, or a pattern
of sweet temper for her to think you amiable.
There are not many things more pathetic
than the trustful willingness of almost any girl
to be led into a false estimate of character under
such conditions. Titania can fall in love with
Bottom the weaver, and give Oberon and Puck
no pains to plot against her. She is happy if
she wakes from her dream before the golden
circle has bound the ass-headed clown and the
fairy queen irrevocably together.

N 2

Love is an idolater, worshipping the
poorest idol with the completest faith, gilding the
base earth of which the image is compact until
it looks like gold and taking it for gold. And
the worst of it is that no wit or worth or wisdom
can save any man or woman from this amazing
folly. To have a statue of all imaginable excellences
set up in your holy of holies, and to be
afraid to scratch lest you should find the clay
below the gilding ! To have the gilded
original entering that sacred place and smashing
the statue !

Perhaps, when she went into the fields that
afternoon, Ethel was not altogether free of
fancy that the young gentleman with the tenor
voice and the brown eyes might, by good
fortune, meet her. It is certain that when she
encountered him the air had suddenly grown
sunnier, and the quiet landscape brighter. She
had offered George no hospitality on the previous
day, not caring probably to make John
Keen free of the farmhouse parlour ; but when,
after a long-drawn stroll, George offered to say
Good-bye ' at the gate, she asked him in, and

he, without even a pretence of polite resistance,
accepted her invitation.

Mother,' said Ethel, ' you remember Mr.
Banks ? '

Of course the old lady remembered him
well, and lie was received with much cordiality.
There was something so particular in her
mother's manner, though George did not see it,
and was not intended to see it, that the girl
blushed two or three times as the three sat
together at the tea-table. George found himself,
so to speak, in clover. The juicy, homemade
bread, the firm, pale-golden butter, the
fragrant tea, were each and all pleasant in their
way. The young lady's manner was everything
that could be hoped for ; the mother was
courteous, and evidently pleased to see him ;
and he was enough in love with Ethel to find
even her unassisted presence charming.

Tea being over, they had a little sacred
music before church, and after the sacred music
they walked to the ugly old Norman edifice
together. After church two or three of the
neighbours dropped in, and they had a little

more sacred music, Mr. Banks being the central
figure of the evening. Then came supper, and,
by something like common consent, a seat was
found for him next to Ethel's, and in the virgin's
innocent heart arose and radiated those little
electric flashes which begin with nearness when
love begins. This Sunday evening was the
precursor of many similarly spent ; and George,
in a tacit way, became recognised by the
neighbourhood as Miss Donne's suitor.

On the Monday following this particular
Sunday the Wrongful Heir turned up at his
offices.

I've been thinking', Mr. Banks, about what
you asked me o' Saturday,' said he. ' You can
have your Wednesday afternoons, seen' as you
want to attend to your father's business, and I
shall expect you to give me an extra hour or
two on Monday nights, private, at my own
house. Will that suit you ? '

The Eightful Heir, with iugratiatory smile,
became fluent in acknowledgment. The
arrangement would suit him admirably. It
was understood that the said arrangement

should be and remain in force until further
orders. But I regret to say that old Daniel's
business received no profit from it, for the
holiday was invariably employed in a visit to
Quarrymoor. The arrangement for Monday
evening brought Rightful Heir and Wronged
Heir more close together than they had ever
been before, and George got to know a good
deal about his employer's private concerns. He
could guess, with a fair approach to accuracy,
how much the old man was worth ; and he
knew, with tolerable exactness, in what directions
his money was invested. Old George
found him very smart and apt, and felt himself
relieved of much labour by the new arrangement.
It was not in his nature to trust anybody
very far ; but he gave young George more of
his confidence than he had ever given elsewhere,
and the young man repaid him by a sleek and
well-conditioned assiduity. Almost any sort of
human arrangement is liable to grow out of its
original bounds, and Mi Banks in course of a
month or two was not in the least sm-prised to
find himself translated from his stool in the

office to the chair of private secretary in Mr.
Bushels own house. This brought with it an
increase of salary and an increase of freedom,
and George began to make a considerable figure
in the town. It was generally said that old
Bushell, who had not a single creature belonging
to him, might not improbably leave at least
a slice of his vast fortune to young Banks.
This kind of rumour is apt, in little country
places, to bring about results more or less
practical, and George's tenor voice was heard
in drawing-rooms whose occupants were quite
outside the Saracen's homely sphere.

The summer had gone, and the harvest was
over and ended. The fields at Quarrymoor
Farm, lately thick with waving wheat and
barley, looked threadbare and waste. Here
and there a meagre covey rose from the stubble
when a chance footstep crossed the lonelier
fields. The trees were slowly firing towards
the flush of beauty which heralds winter and
their own bereavement. Love's little idyll had,
of course, been writing itself out all this time
line by line, and Ethel had learned many things.

Mr. Banks had not yet formally proposed ; but
he had been very near it once or twice, and
Ethel was quite content to wait, and to leave
unspoiled that delicious maiden uncertainty
which yet was certain. Love is a rare epicure.
Whilst George's tenor voice had been growing
sweeter and sweeter for Ethel's ears, and
she had been translating into him all the charm
of her own nature, and, with no egotism,
worshipping her own heart's reflection, John
Keen had been walking in the same path with
George. There was an uneasy sense between
the old companions that wear was coming, and,
although the rivalry between them had never
been openly declared as yet, it was none the
less recognised. It broke out at last in an unexpected
way. John's chronic wear with the
Eeverend Jabez Wallier, of Zion, had reached
an acute stage, and the young sinner had written
rhymes about the parson. The Eeverend Jabez
had carried the war back into the enemy's
country, and had published a pamphlet in which
he had pointedly set forth his belief that John
had the sign of the beast in his forehead. The

young man's sense of humour being tickled, lie
wrote further verses, which to the Eeverend
Jabez really represented themselves as being
the very versified voice of the pit. Even the
average churchgoers were shocked ; and John,
to his own distaste, found himself on a sudden
the hero of that section of the town he liked
least of all. The Vicar of Quarrymoor loved a
joke and hated a Dissenter, and, one or two
copies of John's verses having fallen into his
hands, he disseminated them, with less judgment
than might have been expected of him.
Somehow, the knowledge of this pouring forth
of John's muse got to Ethel's ears, and she was
alarmed for George. That sweet-minded young
man was orthodox and had no sense of humour ;
and one can readily imagine the dread an
innocent girl might feel, lest a free-thinking
firebrand of a fellow, who could publicly chaff
a preacher, should communicate his baleful
fires to her sweetheart. She warned George
against him.

He is an old and valued friend of mine,'
said that good creature. He was very glad of

a chance to throw John over and be rid of him ;
but if he did it for Ethel's sake, it would be
something in his own favour. ' And I have not
read the verses. It would be unjust to condemn
him without a trial.'

That was obviously fair, and Ethel admitted
it. She was a little afraid of John, apart from
theological questions ; for he came courting ina
dogged manner, praising her to her face
without disguise, and blurting out his admiration
with a resolved shamefacedness which was
hard to hear.

'I don't ask you to leave him unkindly,'
said Ethel ; and added, with blushing haste, ' I
have no right to ask you anything— but '

'You have a right to ask me anything,'
said George, who was always in these days
hovering on the brink of an actual declaration,
and always shrinking back again. I
will read the verses, and if I find them as
bad as they have been represented, I shall not
hesitate.'

There the question dropped; but when
the rivals, successful and unsuccessful, next

encountered each other, George opened fire
upon his old companion. Whatever a man
does, it is worth while to do it thoroughly ;
and George, being for the moment orthodox,
surprised himself by the religious fervour of his
own feelings. The interview took place in the
street. John, with his shocking bad hat on
the back of his head and his pipe in his mouth,
lounged on to meet his rival, who was cap-a-pie
in the latest devices of male fashion.

I've been waiting for an opportunity to
speak to you,' said George, with such a sensation
as a man might feel if some important part
of him were dissolving inside. True courage,
it may be argued, consists in the facing of
one's own fears. A man may behave with
magnificent pluck though lie wants to runaway
all the time.

'Ah ! ' said John, suspicious of the truth.

'I hope,' said George, 'that you will be
able to deny the authorship of those blackguard
verses addressed to Mr. Wallier.' The
versifier looked at him and gave him time to

go on. ' They are attributed to you,' George
added uncomfortably.

Have you read 'em ? ' enquired the versifier.


'I regret to say I have,' responded George.
If you examine this response with verbal
subtlety, you will discover that it was not a lie.
There was something in his rival's manner
which gave the versifier an inkling of the
truth.

ITever mind what you regret,' said John.
Have you read 'em ? '

Yes,' said George, lying this time plump
and clean, though against his conscience.
Did you write them ? '

'Hit Jabez where he lived, didn't they?'
asked John elliptically. 'Yes, yes. I wrote
'em. What about 'em ? '

I regret,' said George, almost startled to
notice how much his pious anger helped him,
to learn that the popular accusation is based
on truth. You weill see that, after this, it is
not very likely that we can know each other.'

Clearly said Holm ; and, dull as lie was,
the other felt the satire.

Good-day,' said George stiffly. ^

Wait a bit,' said Keen ; and for a second
or two the young men faced each other in
silence. ' Before we part, I've a word to say.'
There was another pause. 'No, I won't say
it now, because I mean it, and after what has
happened you'd misunderstand me.'

If you have anything to say,' said George,
pray say it now. I shall certainly be unwilling
to offer you another opportunity.'

Very well,' said John, with the air of one
who is too tired to be scornful. ' You and I
know why we part.'

We part,' said George, ' because of your
indecent violation of things which I have been
taught to consider sacred. I'm not a saint ' —
John nodded with his customary dry smile —
but there are some things I can't stand,

and '

J. K. at Quarrymoor is one of 'em,' said
J. K. quietly. ' We both know.'

I am at a loss to understand you,' returned
George.

Are you ? ' the other asked. ' I'm very
glad of it, because it simplifies matters. We
have but one quarrel, and only the odium
theological divides us.'

Let me know at once what you have to
say demanded George with some asperity.

I'll say nothing worse than good-bye,'
John answered ; and the old companions
parted. The condemned satirist pulled his
shocking bad hat from the back of his head low
upon his brows, and walked on.

She'll marry that fellow,' he mused sadly
and bitterly. ' It would have been of no use
to warn him at any time, I suppose, and we
should only have quarrelled outright if I had
warned him now. I wonder if she had heard
of me and the Eeverend Jabez ? Might have
frightened her. I don't care much about
public opinion, but I don't want her to think ill
of me. Pooh ! ^Yhat does it matter what she
thinks of me? If she can only think well of

him ! — that's enough for me to pray for.' The
young man went on until he came to the front
of the Dudley Arms, and there somebody
rounding the corner suddenly ran against him.
It turned out to be the Eeverend Jabez, who,
without apology, hurried on his way. ' I beg
your pardon, sir ! ' cried John with a smile as
the parson scuttled along the High Street ; but
before the verse-writer had turned again the
smile had faded, and he walked on with a
melancholy countenance and a heavy heart.
No man of five-and-twenty can endure with
equanimity to be crossed in love. And least of
all can any young gentleman endure to be
thrown away for a rival whom he knows to be
unworthy.

CHAPTER IX.

George Banks seems inclined, up to now, to
turn out badly, as young gentlemen T^itli the
sweetest of tenor voices, the silkiest of
moustaches, and the slaves manners, have unhappily
done before him. The Autocrat of the
Breakfast Table speaks of a Thomas who includes
three Thomas — the Thomas you know,
the Thomas Thomas knows, and the Thomas
God made. All men have their various sides,
but the width of difference which can lie
between a good woman's apprehension of her
lover and the man's real nature is rarely
equalled elsewhere. To Ethel. George was a
hero ; and when, after no more than a six
months' courtship, he asked her to marry him,
she consented, and thought herself the happiest
and most honoured of women. There is pro-vol.
I. o

baby a strong family likeness between one proposal
of marriage and another, and it seems
likely that there is no equally important movement
made in life in which men's idiosyncrasies
assert themselves less freely.

There had been great efforts made to fit up
the new organ at Quarrymoor Church in time
for the Christmas festival, and, the important
work being finished, Ethel, one evening a fortnight
before the sacred day, sent round a shockheaded
farm boy to the bellows, drew out the
stops, laid her hands upon the keys, and for the
first time heard the new voice speak to her. It
was quite an event in her life, and a score of
the people amongst whom her simple days had
been spent were there to share the pleasure of
it. There had been finer organs built than this ;
but eloquence dwells in the heart of the hearer
rather than in the voice of the speaker, and
Miss Donne had a sort of right of ownership in
the new instrument, and, though a more than
commonly good musician, would have been
charmed with one much poorer. As the music
woke from the great square chest in which

until now it had slumbered, it was like the
awakening of a soul to life. And as the new
soul, with widespread, slow-sounding majestic
pinions, fanned its way towards heaven, the
player's seemed to follow it, and to hover,
clothed in sweetness, high above this mere
earth, and its little cares and griefs and unheroic
joys. But she had been no lover if
George's soul had not seemed to hover side by
side with hers, borne up by the storm wind of
the music. George was not in the organ-loft,
though he had begged hard to be allowed to
accompany her there. Nobody likes to be
seen at a disadvantage. St. Cecilia seated
before the organ-pipes with an angel looking
at her makes a pretty picture, but the lady probably
played in her own primitive days without
the use of pedals. There is a good deal of ungraceful
labour in playing an organ, and Ethel
knew it, and gave George the benefit of her
knowledge, compelling him to sit ^vith the rest
in the body of the church. Music hath charms
to soothe the savage breast, to soften rocks and
rend the knotted oak. George Banks was an



emotional person, with some knowledge of
music and a considerable liking for it, and, over
and beyond this, he was in love. He could lie
upon occasion, and he could be ungenerous
and ungracious with anybody who was too
weak to punish him ; but these faculties are not
incompatible with the existence of the power to
compass emotional pleasures. His soul also, or
what passed for it, took an owl's flight after the
dove-flight of Ethel's and the eagle-soaring of
the music, and his love mixed with the organ
tones and they with it, until his greenish-brown
eyes were glistening with easy tears. He had
time to be proud of this manifestation of a cultured
and impressible nature before the music
ceased, and was sorry that Ethel was not thereto
see the artistic moisture in his eyes. When
she came down he told her of it, and praised
the beauty of her playing. They walked home
together, and nobody was stupid enough to try
to come between them, or to distract the attention
of either of the lovers from the other.

Anything was welcome at Quarrymoor
Farm which gave an occasion for hospitality ;

and, as a matter of course, this trial of the new
organ presented a capital opportunity. The
maids had set out a supper-table in the old-fashioned
parlour — a noble piece of beef, a
juicy ham, home-bred and home-cured, a
saddle of mutton : all cold, but flanked by
steaming dishes of hot potatoes, and supported
by vast loaves of home-baked bread on
trenchers, and foaming jugs of lime-brewed
ale. A meal for hungry people, on a night
when the keen air made even lovers sharp-set
in appetite. Uncle Borge was there, a wizened
man in black ; and Aunt Borge, a fat lady in
blue, who sat down to supper in her bonnet,
as a hint that her society might be looked for
no longer than the meal should last. The
Vicar was there, radiant ; and j\Ir. Hick, the
miller, an ardent politician ; and Mrs. Hick,
the miller's wife. In all, a dozen people sat
down to that generous board ; Ethel and
George being side by side as usual.

Now, Mr. Hick,' said Uncle Borge, ' what
do you think about this here Conservative reaction
? '

'Why,' returned the miller, 'I think as
it's of a piece wi' welly (well nigh) everything.'


Ah ! ' said Mr. Borge. ' Do you, now ? '

Why, I remember,' said Mr. Hick, ' when
the bread riots was on i' Milton, when the
flour was that bad as the bread 'ud run out o'
th' ovens. The Tory party was i' power i'
them days.'

Was 'em ? ' asked Uncle Borge ; ' an' wheel
was De Isreeayly then ? '

'Well,' said the miller, ' I don't rightly
know as he'd come up ; not a lot.'

Sto ? ' said Uncle Borge.

He was some wheel about, I mek no doubt,'
said Mr. Hick. ' Thee may'st bet thy head he
was up to summit even i' them days.'

Ah, to be sure ! ' said Uncle Borge, with
the air of a man convinced by abstruse argument.
A second supply of beef for Mr. Hick
and of mutton for Uncle Borge arriving simultaneously,
the discussion was allowed to slumber.
The miller welcomed this diversion, not
being so sure of the company as he would

have been at the King's Arms at Quarrymoor.
The Vicar daunted him a Httle.

Now, Miss Donne,' said Mr. Hick, raising
his glass in the next pause, ' I oughtn't see thee
again not afore Christmas ; an' so, here's a
merry Christmas an' a happy New Year to thee
an' thine. Mrs. Donne, ma'am, I drink to you.
My respects to you sir,' to the Vicar ; ' Missis,
to Mrs. Hick, ' my opinion on you.'

James '11 allays tek a chance for a merry
word,' said Mrs. Hick, apologetically, to the
Vicar.

And why not ? ' asked the Vicar. ' Mr.
Hick, I follow you: example, and drink to the
general health of the whole table. Ladies and
gentlemen, a merry Christmas and a happy
New Year.' Everybody sipped in answer to
this sentiment, and George, glass in hand,
murmured in Ethel's ear—

A happy New Year, Miss Donne.'

Ethel tinned and answered, ' A happy New
Year.'

She had caught his tone of voice, as sympathetic
people often do, and she half whispered

the words, with a smile. He ventured on what
he had never done before, and, first touching
her hand beneath the table and finding it
withdrawn, he clasped it in his own. She
made a faint, a very faint, effort to remove it ;
and, he resisting ever so slightly, she let it rest
for a brief second or two. After that she sate
in a pleasant confusion, whilst Uncle Borge and
Mr. Hick talked about the ' staiit o' tread ' and
kindred matters.

Our Barges said the stout lady in blue,
'ud sit an' talk all night if a boded let him.'
Thin Uncle Borge took this as a signal to begone,
and arose in obedience to it. The other
guests followed his example, but George dared
to linger. Ethel had thrown a shawl about
her head and had run out to the gate to repeat
her wishes for a merry Christmas. The
friendly voices burthened with the local drawl
came back, borne down the snow-covered lane
on the clear air with a genial crispness in the
toi:te, when George emerged in his great-coat
from the house and intercepted Miss Donne's
return. Perhaps Miss Donne was willing to

have her return intercepted — perhaps she had
even run out of doors for a purpose of her
own. How would the dummy male creature
make chances for the utterance of his sentiments
in this sort of case unless he were
assisted ?

You'll wish me a merry Christmas, won't
you, Miss Donne P ' asked George.

Yes,' said Ethel, ' a merry Christmas.'

And a happy Xew Year ? ' the young man
asked.

'I shall see you again before the Xew
Year,' she answered.

Won't you wish me a happy Xew Year ? '
he asked again. ' Won't you give me a happy
Xew Year ? — the happiest new year I ever had
in my life ! ' Ethel murmured an inaudible
something — she herself scarcely knew what.
But she knew that by this time she was in
George's arms, and that he was working with
the fingers of one hand to free her face from
the shawl which obscured it. When he had
achieved that object he kissed her, and the
tenor voice murmured at her ear, telling' how

long George lead loved lier and low dearly, and
how it should be the one effort of his life to
make her happy, and calling her his angel and
his darling. It is quite a commonplace sort of
matter to write about or to read about in a
novel, and George did it all in the orthodox
manner ; but it is curious to notice how fresh
it is when one meets with it outside books.
With George it was perhaps more a matter of
the youth of blood than a matter of the affections
; but, as I have said already, some people
do not find nobility of sentiment a necessary
appurtenance to love, and he was at least more
in earnest than he had ever been before, and
meant all he said ; and could not, indeed, find
words to say a hundredth part enough. Ethel
had no need of any words of her own just then.
She could let her lover speak for both, and his
words were sweeter than sweet. But at last —
and the whole thing lasted scarcely more thana
minute — George felt his kisses answered once,
only once, and she was gone. He went homewards
triumphing ; and, what with his triumph
and the clear exhilarating air, he felt so full

of life and gladness that he must needs run at
full speed every now and again, so that the
four miles between himself and home were
covered in forty minutes, and he reached the
Saracen bright and flushed, and looking for
once in his life downright handsome. He
greeted Dinah good-humouredly when he met
her in one of the passages, and, pushing by,
reached the little snuggery — so unchanged,
during this four-and-twenty years, that a picture
of it drawn in the old days would still
answer for it almost to a bottle — and there
found Daniel scorching his thin less beFore a
rousing fire, and with fat white hands feebly
encouraging: his digestive organs, as on the
night when we first saw him.

Father,' said the young man, throwing osiris
overcoat and turning his face away a Httle,
'I've news for you. I am encroached to be

«/ DC

married.'

Ah ! ' said the old man quietly. ' Can the
young woman keep thee ? '

I hope to be able to keep the young lady,'
George answered in affront.

Engaged to be married, best thee?'
asked Daniel. ' It's a bit sudden-like, ain't it,
George, lad ? Who is it ? Maid or wider ? '

The lady is Miss Ethel Donne, of Quarry-moor
Earn,' George answered.

'I thought as their was summit a-tekin'
thee out to Quarry moor,' chuckled Daniel with
an asthmatic wheeze. 'Donne? I known'
the nam, I thinking'. Ah ! John Donne, he
was a farmer out their. Is her a daughter of
his ? '

Yes,' said George ; ' Miss Donne lives at
the farm. She is an only child.'

I reckon he'll be pretty warm, then ? '
said Daniel.

Her mother has only a life-interest,' said
George complacently. ' The farm is a freehold
of more than three hundred acres, and she will
have other Property besides.'

Very well, then,' said Daniel, with another
asthmatic chuckle, ' I'm ready to dance at the
wedding'. I should like to live to ness a grandchild
o' mine, though I don't reckon on it. I'm
a-getting' to be very old, George. I'm a-getting'

main old. I'm three years i' front o' Jim
Bonner, and they say as he's a-dyin'. Well,
well, well ! Tell Diner I want her.'

Dinah said George, ' your father wants
you.'

What is it, father ? ^ asked Dinah, entering
quietly.

'Your brother George is engaged to be
married,' said Daniel ; ' what d'ye think o'
that ? '

Here, as always, Dinah's secret stared her
in the face. If she could but have claimed
George for her child, and have given him a
mother's sympathy and a mother's congratulations
!

'Who is it, George?' she asked tenderly.
He answered more kindly than he had spoken
to her for years.

]\Iiss Donne, at Quarrymoor.'

'The young lady who plays the organ
at church ? ' cried Dinah. ' Why, George,
she's the prettiest gell in all this part o' the
country.'

Isn't she ? ' said George.

'And such a good gell, too, from all I
hear,' said motherly Dmah. 'Why, my dear,
you are fortunate ! '

'When be you ago' off the hooks,
Diner?' cried old Daniel. 'I'm afeard, my
gell, as you've overstayed your market'

Yes, father,' said poor Dinah, ' I've overstayed
the market.'

'There's no pleasing' some folks,' said her
father. ' You've had chance enough ; but
you've never seemed to tek a liken' to none on
'em, 'kept perhaps as it was young Joe Bushell,
an' he's been dead, I count, these 'ears and
'ears.'

Dinah had never even heard the errant
Joe's name since her mother's death, ten
years ago and more. You may guess
what a wound the ignorant words made.
But she was used to endurance, and she gave
no sign.

If you'd ha' struck up wi' young Joe,' said
Daniel, ' you'd ha' been main rich now. An' I
shouldn't ha' sent you to bed wi' your husband
naked, if you had ha' married. Joe'd ha' had

everything' as George's master's got, an' at one
time I thought you'd mek a match on it.'

What a very patent secret the two young
people's love-making must have been, after all !

Dinah kissed George, and congratulated
him with all her heart. The young man for
once accepted her caresses, and she went to
bed almost happy, but full of such thoughts as
you may fancy. George himself was too
excited to sleep for some two or three hours
after getting into bed, and lay tumbling in a
way which, under the circumstances, might
seem unnatural ; but George had a variety of
subjects to think about, and the cross-winds
and cross-currents of thought tossed the mental
barque about rather wildly. For one thing, he
was of course going to reform ; for, in spite of
the airs he had taken with his old companion,
he could not lie alone in the darkness of the
night thinking of Ethel, and fail to acknowledge
that some small reforms in him were needed.
To a conscience not over-tender, shilling pool
may seem a sufficiently harmless entertainment,
but one of George's vows was against its seductions.

It was easy, by the aid of a little small betting,
to lose a pound or two in an evening even
at shilling pool ; and when a man of limited income
tests his resources in that way five evenings
out of six, he bids fair to get into trouble.
In fact, George had borrowed a good bit of
money, say a hundred pounds, over and above
the ' debts of honour ' ; and though old Daniel
was well-to-do, George was not too sure of getting
money from him except by a method
which, in the light of his own connection with
Miss Donne, seemed unworthy of him. An
only son ought, of course, to be welcome to
take from a well-to-do father a share of what
will one day be his own, and the young man
had acted upon this principle with some freedom
in bygone small emergencies. There are
some things a man must take a bold face with,
if he desire to have his own way and hive in
peace ; and conscience is one of them. George
had been apt to deride the utterances of his inward
monitor, accusing it of cant and over-susceptibility
; but somehow the accusations
seemed at this time to stick in his throat, and

Ethel presided in a new court of conscience,
and gave ruling against him on a hundred
matters in which he had been apt to rule in
his own favour. Well, he was o-oingr to be a

DO

new man and start afresh. It was unfair and
injurious that, under the circumstances, he
could not wipe the slate clean of the old
record. His troubles were small enough. He
was going to marry a wealthy wife, and would
himself in due time inherit a nice little fortune.
What has been done once may be done again,
and George had borrowed already. To fill one
hole he must dig another ; and though the
second hole must necessarily be a little larger
than the first, it need scarcely be big enough to
bury himself in.

Yet in a little while his debts worried him,
and not without cause. Mr. Curtice, who was
supposed to be a solicitor, and was a billiards
horse-chanter, Jew usurer's tout, and
so on, was a man who knew how to be exigent,
and it was to him that George applied for help.
]mr. Curtice was helpful first and exigent afterwards.
George's life became a nuisance to

VOL. I. p

him. The billiard-sharping solicitor dogged
him with threats of open proceedings ; and, as
most of us know by experience, folly looks
extra-foolish when threatened with detection,
and mere peccadilloes in the dawn of exposure
assume aspects mean and criminal. When, byway
of miracle, we do see ourselves as others
are likely to see us, we are rarely flattered.
There was a way out of trouble which some
people would have called mean ; but after all,
when George had looked at it long enough, he
felt the path a just one, and took it. There are
actions by no means reprehensible, for the performance
of which one desires a clear field ;
and George, though he knew himself justified,
wished for secresy. His plan was simple — he
had resolved to antedate possession of a little
portion of his own : he was going, in short, to
rob his whither. Now, that is an action about
which many theories may be constructed, and
in this case there were many excuses for it.
Daniel had greatly more money than he wanted ;
George was his undisputed heir : and yet the old
man was parsimonious. And whom is a high-spirited

young fellow to rob if not his own
father ? In brief, George silenced everything
within himself, except a voice which seemed to
belong to Ethel and would not be stifled.

In Daniel's bed-room stood a great, solid
mahogany chest of drawers, dark with age and
much polishing. The five lower drawers occupied
each the ful width available, but the two
topmost divided the space between them. The
right-hand drawer at the top held Daniel's cash-box,
and was always locked ; but the left-hand
drawer held nothing of value, and was always
unsecured. When this left-hand drawer was
taken clean out of the chest, a space was discovered
(the mahogany partition rising only
to half the needful height), through which any
fairly slender hand might be introduced. Possibly
some loose silver may have found a way of
escape by this route aforetime. Anyway,
George was familiar with the build of the
furniture, and, being quite cornered, resolved
upon the deed. mr. Curtice had grown so
noisy in his claim that the young man had made
him an absolute promise for a certain Wednesday

morning, and here came Tuesday night,
and with it such courage as a coward can get
out of desperation. The time was more than
commonly favourable, for Daniel, to George's
knowledge, had been keeping an unusually
large sum in hand to meet an account which
was to be called for on that very decisive Wednesday.
Yet, when in the darkness of the night
he crept from his own room to make the attempt
he encountered an obstacle unlocked for, and,
at first sight, fatal. The chamber door was
locked.

Creeping quietly as a ghost, he tried the key
of his own room and found it useless. Despair
fell upon him for a while, and then out of it
came new cunning and fresh resolve. At the
back of the Saracen was a long and narrow
garden, and beyond this garden lay a field ;
from the field led a little lane which ran at the
back of a line of mean houses and ended in a
dark by-street. George pulled on his boots,
donned hat and coat, and, ostentatiously displaying
himself in the bar, announced his intention
of going out, and so swaggered away.

He plunged into the by-street, ran crouching
down the lane, climbed the gate, slunk along
the field, and in two minutes from the start
stood in the Saracen's garden. The new plan
was but a bolder development of the first. He
had intended that an open bed-room window
with a ladder placed against it should lead to
the suspicion of such an entry as he was about
to make, and the ladder was in proper position
already. He mounted it in the darkness,
pulled a diamond pane easily out of the soft
and flexible leaden fi-ane which held it, and,
having thrown back the catch, opened the
window and crawled through into the room.
Though he shook like the hoimd he was, it
took but a moment to whip out the left-hand
drawer ; but his sleeve-hanks and the cuff of his
overcoat caught at the upper and lower carpentry
of the partition ; and he struggled in
vain to pass his hand thus cumbered.

This brought delay, and the delay carried
with it the beginning; of a tragedy.

'Dinah,' said Daniel, comfortably roasting
his legs at the snuggery fire, ' tek my keys an'

fetch the cash-box.' One of the maids had
asked for change.

Dinah went upstairs Lightly ; but a criminal
person who at that second had laid his fingers
on a cash-box in a corner difficult of access,
heard the step and shook and sweated at it.
His fingers, scrambling for a hold upon the
box, played a sort of tattoo on the lid ; but he
clutched it, and drew it through the faulty partition
; when with more noise — or so it
seemed — than ever a key made, Dinah began
to unlock the door. Clutching the box,
George made for the window, and had already
got his legs outside when Dinah opened the
door, and, with a strange little cry, ran at him
and seized him by the shoulders. A thief was
much more likely to be afraid of Dinah than
she of a thief.

It was hard on George to be thus disturbed
at such a moment. The hysteric rage which is
the coward's courage rose in him, and, feeling
the ladder firm beneath his feet at that instant,
he raised the cash-box in both hands in act to
strike. But in the mere second for which she

had held inn she had seen his face and read
the truth. Before he could strike her she had
fallen on the floor, and there she lay in a swoon,
while George went shakily down the ladder,
with failing knees, and ran, with the main
bones drawn from the small of his back, along
the garden ; passed through the field, the lane,
and the dark by-street, and, sweating and
quaking and palpitating still, found himself by-and-by
near a disused mine ^vith the silence of
the night about him. There, kneeling on the
frosty grass, he set to work with a cold chisel,
and, after barking his knuckles a little, succeeded
in forcing the lid of the box. He had
been in such a thievish fear and hurry until
now that he never thought of the weight of the
plunder, or collected his own thoughts so far as
to guess how much he might have secured.
Before the think; was done he had known how
much he had expected to find ; but now it
came upon him with a dizzy sickness of remorse,
and rebellion against his luck, that he
had done the deed almost in vain. His thievish
fingers — he felt that they were thievish—

prowling round and round the box, found in
all some two dozen coins and one piece of bank
paper. It was too dark for him to tell the difference
between gold and silver, but, weighing
the coins nervously in his moist hand, he
thought them too light for gold, and his heart
sank. If Dinah should tell of him ! It is
characteristic of a coward to grow a little
murderous under such conditions.

Dinah stayed so long upstairs that Daniel,
having once or twice called to her and
received no answer, unwillingly took himself
from the sphere of grateful warmth in which
he sat, and found her lying in a dead faint
beneath the open window. He tugged in
alarm at the bed-room bell, and was so perturbed
by his daughter's condition that for a
full half-hour he forgot to think about the
message upon which he had sent her. Then
came the discovery. The open window, the
ladder set against it, the displaced drawer,
the faulty partition — all helped to tell the
tale.

It eea't much,' said Daniel, ' as the thief's

got for his trouble, anyhow. Lucky for me,
the spirit traveller called this afternoon ! '

Dinah sat white and chill in the snuggery
and listened to the talk and said nothing. It
had been drawn from her that she had seen the
thief.

Should you know him again ? ' asked
Daniel.

I couldn't tell you who it was to save my
life,' said poor Dinah, forced into prevarication ;
but after that she held her tongue, and her
agitation was so plainly to be seen that Daniel
and his guests forbore to trouble her further.

George threw the empty cash-box down the
disused mine, and heard it go clanging with a
thousand hollow echoes at the sides until it fell
with a dull splash into the gathered water at
the bottom of the shaft. Then he went to the
Dudley Arms, quaking still, but counterfeiting
jollity, and overdoing it a little. A glass or
two of brandy set him on his feet again, and he
was able to look things in the face with open
eyes. He was horribly afraid that Dinah might
have recognised him ; but the hurry and the

darkness were in his favour, and he was in the
bed-room so soon after having left the house by
the front way, that even if she had thought the
thief resembled him she had probably dismissed
the fancy. Then, neither she nor Daniel knew
of his debts. However that might be, his coup
had failed, and he had made but nine pounds
towards the necessary hundred and eighty.

CHAPTER X.

George naturally felt himself affronted by fate.
When a high-spirited young man finds himself
compelled by circumstances to do a mean thing,
it is hard that his unveiling baseness should be
of no avail to him. The bargain he had made
was that for a little less than two hundred
pounds he should become despicable. He had
become despicable — he knew it and felt it —
but he had been robbed of his bargain. He
had been ready to be ashamed of himself for a
full cash-box ; it was additionally shameful to
have to be ashamed for one that was nearly
empty. His righteous anger even sustained
him against the assaults of conscience. Indeed,
he had other things to think about than the
upbraiding of the inward voice.

There was Curtice's money to be paid.
Curse Curtice ! That, with all the changes
rung upon it, was well enough as a momentary
relief, but it brought no lasting balm to George's
heart. It was nice to curse Curtice : it would
have been delicious to maltreat him, if the thing
could have been done safely; but then the
creditor was a big man with a taste for boxing ;
and, even if it had been possible to thrash him,
the debt would still remain unpaid, and George's
signature at the bottom of the bill obliterated.
George confessed to himself in the form of
Shylock's taunt to Gratian : rage as he would,
he could not rail the seal from off the bond.
If only somebody else who hated Curtice as
much as he did would run the risk of poisoning
him ! But there are some things altogether
too desirable ever to come true.

Even at five-and-twenty a sleepless night
results in pallor ; and wrinkles, hitherto lying
invisible upon the skin, as secret writing upon
paper, start into life. The hollow clang of the
empty cash-box as it beat from side to side of
the mine, and the final splash it gave at the

bottom, made no good sleeping-music. Daniel,
in these late days of life, did not rise for breakfast,
and on the fateful morning when the inconvenient
Curtice was decisively to be met,
even Dinah did not appear until George's meal
was nearly over. "When she entered the room
it was plainly to be seen that she also had
passed but a poor night. Of all the griefs she
had suffered, this new one was the heaviest and
the hardest to endure. She had been praying
and crying all night, as women do, and she was
sore perplexed. Could she do anything to save
her child from the pit to which he seemed to
be hastening ? Dare she warn him .^ Dare
she acknowledge her last nio'ht's recognition of
the thief? Would such an acknowledgment
serve to scare him from his evil courses, or
would it drive him into recklessness ? She
would perhaps have dared to tell him of her
knowledge, but that her shame and its anguish
seemed too great already to bear increasing by
a spoken admission of them.

George felt that it would appear odd in him
if he made no allusion to an incident so unusual

as a robbery at the Saracen. But it was hard
for him to find words which should sound
commonplace, and harder still to speak them
unconcernedly.

I couldn't make head or tail of the
governor's yarn last night, Dinah,' he said at
last, having twice or thrice cleared his throat.
Did you see the fellow ? '

His back was half turned to her, and the
newspaper he held was so arranged as to
conceal his face. He knew the stroke a bold
one — it was so bold that his heart seemed to
stop whilst he made it — but nobody fights more
pluckily than a coward in a corner, though his
strokes are sometimes wild enough to damage
himself rather than his adversary. Dinah gave
no answer.

Can't you hear ? ' asked George, rustling
his newspaper angrily and turning his back
fairly upon her. He felt that she' was looking
at him, and he heard her feet moving slowly on
the sanded floor. ' Did you see the fellow ?
Hang it all ! I suppose it hasn't quite frightened
your wits away ! ' If he had but a chance to

seem ill-tempered lie might miss his agitation.
Did you see him ? '

Yes,' said Dinah, in a whisper. It would
be difficult to tell in whose ears the whisper
sounded more terrible — his or hers.

Should you ' — said George, with his back
still turned to her — ' should you know him
again ? ' He poured a cup of tea over the
table-cloth as he asked the question. Before it
was answered Dinah stood in front of him, and
he could feel that she was looking at him still.
What's come to you ? ' he asked with a sickly
pretence of contempt. ' Can't you speak ? '
He dared not raise his eyes. ' Should you know
him again ? '

'Yes,' said Dinah, and then for a second
or two their eyes met, in spite of him.

He tried to ask ' Who was it ? ' but this
voice failed him. He tried to brave her look
and his own quailing heart, but they bore him
down, and he stirred at an empty cup and pretended
to drink from it. Dinah began to cry,
and, in the shame and grief which oppressed
her, could think of nothing better than to runaway.

George's knees were so weak for a
moment that he could not rise. To have failed
and then to have been detected was unusually
hard measure, and the detection made everything
else look awkward. Dinah had not told
so far, but the young man did not know how
long he could count upon her forbearance. If
his debts should become known at home, there
would be a row of course, and Daniel Banks
most assuredly would not pay them, though he
might use a father's privilege, and be excessively
disagreeable about them.

Curtice was lounging in the road when
at last George left the door of the Saracen.

Good morning, Mr. Banks,' said Curtice,
civilly enough, to look at.

When did I promise to pay you ? ' asked
George with intentionally offensive magnificence.
' I'm not the sort of fellow to cringe
to a hound like this,' said George internally,
simply because I owe him money.' And todo
him justice, he never cringed except where
thrift might follow fawning. It was hopeless
to cringe here, and he knew it.

Twelve to-day,' said Curtice.

Then, don't bother me till twelve to-day,'
said George, walking on.

'All right,' said Curtice, quickening his
step to keep alongside, 'I can't wait any
longer, mind.'

Don't trouble yourself,' returned the
debtor, 'until you're asked to wait.'

'AU right,' repeated Curtice, dropping a
step behind. 'Twelve to-day at the Dudley.
George marched on, and the creditor, stopping
to hojht a ciii;ar, murmured to himself his belief
that he would get his money, after all.
But in the debtor's heart, fear and desperation
sat side by side, and altogether his emotions
were unenviable. He had two hours and a
half in which to find the sum required. Xot
to find it meant open shame, and nobody knew
what of evil consequences beside. His employer
was a man of notorious strictness, and
his father was the last man in the world either
to condone or remove the ground of offence.

When the Eightful Heir to old Joe Bushell's
fortune reached the house of the Wrongful Heir

VOL. I. Q

who held the fortune, he found that his employer
had been been called away to London
on urgent business, and had gone up by the
night train, leaving behind him a letter of instructions.
He would either be down again that
night, or would forward fresh orders. George
sat down before the fire to think, holding the
letter in his hand. The kind of grief which had
fallen upon him is noticeable for always occurring
at the wrong time. There was a perfectly
dark horse he knew of, which would infallibly
have pulled him through this had it happened
two months later. The dark horse was the
deadest of all dead certainties, and was really to
be relied upon. He stood already to win three
hundred pounds upon this animal's achievements,
and if by any means it were possible to
keep Curtice off until the race was won, George
was safe. But Curtice would only be held off
by being paid — an impossible condition.

The sight of means to do prompts to the
deed. Young gentlemen holding situations of
trust, and finding themselves in unpleasant
corners, have sometimes made a way of escape

by the betrayal of their trust. ' George
Bushell,' written in a laboured heavy hand,
stared at George Banks (who was George
Bushell without knowing it) from the paper he
held in his hand. It was not a difficult signature
to imitate. When George took up a
sheet of note-paper and, laying it over the letter,
set the two against a window pane and traced
the signature "smith a lead pencil, he did nobody
any wrong. When, seating himself at the table,
he elaborately painted-in the clumsy up and
down-strokes in ink, he was still quite within
the pale of the law. Despair made experiments,
that was all. Forgery is a dangerous
game to play, as any young gentleman of
business cultivation knows. And yet — George
Bushell's business had drifted, bit by bit, so
completely into the hands of George Banks,
and the young fellow had so exclusive a control
of things, that it might be easy to conceal
it until the dark horse should have time to
extricate him from his difficulties. And there
was no denying that the imitation before him
was complete enough to deceive a casual

q2

observer. Curtice could not be put off any
longer. If Ethel were pressed, there was no
reason why she should not marry him a month
or two sooner than the date she was already
willing to fix, and in that case old Daniel
would come down pretty handsomely for house
and furniture. Then, having ready money for
house and furniture, it was possible to go in
debt for them even if the dark horse failed,
though that of course was nonsense.

The imitation of the signature was admirable.
They were written with the same pen
and the same ink and on the same sort of
paper. George cut the two out and shook
them in his hat, and found it a difficult thing
to say which was his own and which his employer's,
until he detected on the back of the
imitation the trace the pencil had left in pressing
upon the paper.

At twelve o'clock that day Mr. Curtice was
paid. George had unwittingly signed his own
name, and had illegally secured a little portion
of the property to which he was legally
entitled.

In for a penny, in for a pound,' is a very
good maxim in its way. Since the dark horse
whose name, by the way, was Erebus — was
good for three hundred pounds in the fulness
of time, it was scarcely worth George's while
to forge a cheque which was merely large
enough to cover Curtice's claims. He impaired
the whole of the dark horse's future
earnings, and had something over a hundred
pounds in hand. Curtice was discreet, and
nobody except the people concerned had any
knowledge of George's late indebtedness. At
the Dudley Arms that evening the young man
shone resplendent, and his luck took a turn
which was nothing short of wonderful. There
might be a way to wealth even in shilling pool
if a man could always win at it. George took
his success as an omen of good fortune. His
luck had turned. He needed some sort of consolation
for the miseries which hung over him,
though they only occasionally touched him.
Dinah's secresy never seemed certain for a
moment, and for a dashing young man, whose
social qualities and personal appearance were

SO widely admired, it was unpleasant to have to
be carefully civil to a sister who might in any
moment of pique draw down ruin. It was not
in him to understand how impossible such a
betrayal would have looked to Dinah's eyes.
The woman whose heart through all these
dreary years had been faithful to the lover of
her girlhood was in one hemisphere and he in
another, mother and son though they were. If
you ask me from idiom George inherited his
nature, I own that I cannot tell. For the lost Joe,
though invertebrate, was a lad of good impulses
and an honest and gentle nature, and George's
mother was as loyal and true a creature as ever
wore woman's shape. That says much, and is
intended to say much. But every beast, as
young Joe had years since told the Eeverend
Paul, acts after its own instinct and judges
after its own nature, and George judged his
mother by the only standard he had ; and the
result of his judgment made him tremble for
his own safety.

It may have been some grace in him, it
may have been the weather, it may have been

the seductive force of shilling pool which held
him from Ethel's presence for three or four
days after the settlement of Ciurtice's account.
But the Sunday afternoon being fine, he walked
over to Quarrymoor, not unassailed by qualms
of conscience. For there is something in the
presence of a good woman with whom a man
is in love which seems almost to detect the
past committal of any wrong by her lover.
Even a little thing reproaches under such circumstances.
I remember how guilty last
night's game at loo used to look when I was
first in love and met Beauty and Grace and
Goodness in the chapel porch on a Sunday
morning. To be in love makes the conscience
tender, and love's pure eyes seem so to look
through a man that he can scarcely think of
hiding anything from them.

By this time Ethel was far enough advanced
in love to run eagerly forward at the sight of
George's broad-shouldered and Avell-knit figure,
and met him at the gate. She was no more a
mere receiver of caresses, but had learned —
quite easily — to caress. And in her inmost

heart she thought George the handsomest, the
cleverest, the most modest, the most honourable
of men. Oh, the pity of it, ago ! the pity
of it!

On this particular Sunday she ran out to
meet him at the gate, and they walked indoors
together demurely enough. But once inside
the dimly-lighted hall, George stooped down to
kiss her, and she put both her arms about his
neck and kissed him back again, with no pretence
of coyness. Pretences of any sort were
rather out of this young lady's way, and for some
reason or no reason she was full that day of an
unusual tenderness and gentle gaiety which
made her face at once soft and arch, so that
her lips moved gently with deep feeling and
her eyes laughed at the same moment for
innocent gladness of heart. A compound
mood, which I am pleased to believe is not uncommon
to good girls who are in love ; and a
mood in which even a plain woman would be
downright delightful even to a dull lover.

There is no finer armour than egotism, but
even egotism has crevices that a needle can begot

through by chance or skill. George was
well-protected, but for once he was wounded,
and the needle pricked so deep and keen that
the tears sprang into his eyes.

I'm not worthy of you, my darling,' he
whispered. ' I'm not worthy of the love you
give me.'

He really meant it, and saw for a second or
two how true it was. Love is a continual
worker of miracles.

George ! ' cried Ethel in a wounded voice.
Who has the right to depreciate a woman's
idol? Even the oracle himself is no oracle if
he dare to tell her the truth about his own
right to ]her worship. But of course his
humility was beautiful, and of course she loved
him the more for it, if that were possible.

I don't believe,' said George, ' that any
man would be worthy of your love.' The
proposition set forth in this general manner
became a compliment, fitly to be answered by
a kiss, which meant amongst other things —

1 am not worthy oiyou. You are worthy

of a queen. And as for men in general, I
believe you.'

In her mixed mood of gaiety and tenderness
she charmed the young man from his self-accusing
thoughts. They were never likely to
abide long with him, and by-and-by, seeing
how favourable the time was, he began to urge
her about the hastening of the wedding-day.
She resisted him — he asked for reasons — she
had none to give — and, in short, he won in a
canter. They settled it between themselves —
with her mother's consent, they would be
married in two months' time. At the tea-table
George laid the new scheme before Mrs. Donne,
who, apart from a vague opposition on the
score of dresses to be made, had no objection to
offer. She liked the young fellow, and thought
that he and her daughter made a pretty pair.
She had, besides, a strong dislike to lengthy
waiting in a case like this where two young
people who were old enough to do it had
thoroughly made up their minds.

That night in church George turned things
over in his mind. His employer was back

again, and had displayed no more curiosity than
common about the conduct of recent business.
There would come an overhauling of the pass-book
and so forth by-and-by, and George would
have that in his own hands and would make
his return for his employer's inspection.
Nothing seemed less likely than discovery, if
only the hole he had made could be filled up
in the space of a month or so. To leave
it open would be inevitably to tumble into
it. But now, with the marriage definitely
arranged, everything would go well, and he
would never be fool enough to peril his safety
again. Ethel on her marriage would surely
come into possession of some little ready money,
and old Daniel was certain to behave pretty
handsomely. George had in his breast-pocket
at that moment something over a hundred
pounds in notes, and as he thought things over,
staring at the Vicar in rapt attention to his own
affairs, he decided that it would be well to put
the money into safe keeping.

Ethel,' he said, when, in the interval

between church and supper, they sat alone in
the parlour, ' I want you to do me a favour.'

Yes ? ' said Ethel, smiling in anticipation.

Put your hand into this pocket,' said
George, holding his coat open, ' and see what
you'll find there.'

Ethel did as she was told, and brought out
a bundle of five-pound notes. Holding the
bundle in her hand, she looked inquiry at hers
wee til ear t.

I'm not an economical man by nature,'
said the young man, ' but I've begun to save a
little for an event you know of, and that's my
first achievement.'

What a sum of money ! ' said Ethel.

Yes,' replied George, ' more than a hundred
pounds. Now, that goes towards housekeeping.'


Yes ! ' said Ethel, quite delightedly.

At least,' explained the young man, with
greater caution, ' that is what it's intended for
at present. But I have embarked in a business
transaction which may call for capital at any
moment. Except for that, I am resolved not

to touch it. Xovv, if I keep it myself I shan't
keep it long, I know, for I am a dreadfully
extravagant fellow.'

You are too generous,' said Ethel.
Well — I am,' responded George, with the
air a man generally puts on when admitting
that sort of failing. ' But I want you to keep
the money for me, so that it can only be used
for one of two specific objects.'

You want me to keep it for you ? '
Yes. K I bank it, I can go and draw it
out when I like, and I don't want to be tempted.
But if it's once in your hands, I can only draw
it at actual need. You'll be my banker, won't
you?'

Suppose,' said Ethel, ' that it should be
stolen ? '

Nonsense, my daring,' said George. ' Lock
it in a drawer upstairs.'

Oh,' said Ethel merrily, ' it would be easy
for a burglar to put a ladder against the window
and get into the room that way in the
dark.' George said nothing. ' And suppose,' said
Ethel, 'that I should just be running into the

room at the time, and should be frightened out
of my wits for ever. Wouldn't that be dreadful
! Why, George, what's the matter ? You
are ill ! '

No,' said George. ' A little twinge.
Nothing to speak of. There ! I'm all right
again.' But his cheeks, which commonly kept
a remarkable bloom, all things considered, were
chalky in their hue, and his stare was a little
ghastly. Ethel's imagination could scarcely
have led her to a theme less pleasant for her
lover's ears. Yet, how was she to know that ?
Even George saw clearly that he had started at
a shadow which he himself had thrown. ' Don't
let anybody know about the money, Ethel,' he
said, a second or two later. Her chance
speech had made him timorous, and he began
to fear lest a word about the trust he had reposed
in her should lead to suspicion and detection.
' Let nobody know,' he urged ; ' keep it a
secret. Will you promise.'

Yes,' she answered, somewhat surprised
by his vehemence ; ' I promise.'

Eun away upstairs with it,' said George,

with an imsiiccessfal smile. 'Don't let it be
seen.'

He is nervous about me' thought Ethel.
She was sure that in his own behalf he was as
bold as a lion ; but it was evident that he
could not even bear to think of danger approaching
her. If that reflection should seem
a little self-conscious on the girl's part, remember
that she was in love. Of course it was sweet
to think that even the thought of a possible
danger for her could so move him. Love, as I
have said already, is a rare epicure.'

Ethel ran upstairs and locked the notes into
an old-fashioned little cabinet which had a
transparently undeceive secret drawer. She
kissed the bundle before she put it away — not,
you may be sure, because it was worth more
than a hundred pounds. It was worth a great
deal more than many hundreds of pounds to
her, because she thought she saw in it the fruit of
effort and glad self-denial for love's sake. Love
had earned it, so she thought ; love gave it ; it
was to help love to live gracefully. Xo miser
ever hugged money so gladly, and no spendthrift

ever thought less of its practical value. George
was waiting below, and was feeling a good deal
unhinged when she returned.

My darling,' she said, ' you haven't been
frightened by my silly speech about myself P '

No, dear, no ! ' said he with an effort.

It was very silly for me to hint at such a
thing,' said Ethel. ' You won't like me to keep
the money now.'

George with a coward's courage turned
upon the situation, so to speak, and struck out
at it.

My dear, I confess that the suggestion
alarmed me. Shall I tell you why ? It's a very
singular coincidence, but my sister was alarmed
last week in the very way you indicated.'
Ethel was astonished, and he related the incident
with dramatic force. It was a good move,
or so he told himself Ethel and Dinah were
growing companionable. His sweetheart would
be sure to mention the story to Dinah, and she,
learning that he had told it, would find her suspicions
shaken by the very effrontery of the
thing. And in any case Ethel would be still

less inclined to believe any horrible future
accusation against him, since he himself had
voluntarily alluded to the tale.

Days went on, and Erebus came into the
light and became a favourite. When George
had backed the dark horse, he was going begging
at thirty to one. Now it was a hard matter
to get three to two against him. George felt
that this turn of fortune was absolutely providential.
But it happened one dull afternoon,
when ]mr. Bushell was prowling about amidst
the fragments in the waste-paper basket, looking
for a scrap small enough to light his pipe
with, that he made a discovery. And here it
may be noticed that people who commit
offences against the law are constantly guilty of
the most surprising stupidities. The least
capable of the human race are forgers and
murderers. They go about ^vith an infantile
simplicity to make avenues to detection. They
leave trails behind them which even the police
have not the ingenuity to miss. And Master
George had positively left undestroyed the real
signature from which he had made his first

VOL. I. R

rough copy, and the copy itself. Slow George
Bushell was about to burn his fingers by attempting
to light one of these tiny scraps at the
fire. The larger scraps were of no service or
value, but it was part of his character to save
useless things. As he was gingerly pushing the
scrap of paper through the bars, he caught sight
of the writing upon it, and, lifting it nearer to
his eyes, read his own name. There was nothing
very peculiar about it at first sight, but
yet — why should anybody have cut olF his signature
from the tail of a letter ? And here
was another bit of paper lying on the hearth-rug,
which being picked up also proved to have
his name written upon it, apparently by his own
hand. Not quite suspicious yet, he turned
them over, and after a minute's inspection he
made the discovery George had made a little
while before. One of the signatures had been
traced with a pencil. The real signature,
having been firmly pressed against the glass,
bore no mark ; but the other, lying on a softer
surface, bore the impress clearly.

Why,' said Mr. Bushell in his own wooden

and deliberate manner, ' if somebody ain't been
a-practisin' my autograph ! ' His long clay
pipe dropped from his fingers and broke in
pieces on the fender, and at that moment, with
premonitory tap at the door, his confidential
secretary entered. The old man looked at him
and arose slowly. His inexpressive countenance
bore no greater mark of annoyance than
almost any man might have shown at even so
trifling an accident as the breaking of a pipe.
I shall be out this afternoon, Mr. Banks,' he
said, as he passed the unconscious George.

Yes, sir,' said he in answer. ' About that
thousand tons of Heathen ? Can Dunn and
Bolhnger have it at the price ? '

Why, yes,' said Mr. Bushell, ' delivered at
the wharf, mind you.'

'Very good, sir,' said George; and away
went his employer to the bank, where he was
closeted with the manager whilst the guilty
youngster, not knowing what had befallen him,
was leisurely apprising Messrs. Dunn and
BoUinger of the fact that their price was
accepted.

b2

'You've kep' all my cheques, I suppose
said Mr. Bushel! ; ' all as has been sent in this
'ear, anyhow ? ' The manager answered ' Yes,'
and in a little while the cheques were produced.

I never drawer this,' said Mr. Bushell,
with unusual emphasis, laying a heavy hand
flat on a draught in favour of ' Self for three
hundred pounds.

It was presented in the ordinary course
by Mr. Banks, sir,' said the manager.

Was it ? ' asked the Wrongful Heir half
jeeringly, half angrily. 'Look here!' And
he unfolded the two crumpled bits of paper.
The manager stared from him to them and
from them to him. ' Here's somebody been a-
practising' my autograph.'

Dear me ! ' said the manager fatuously.
He had, like other men, heard of forgeries,
but they were outside the sphere of his experience
until now.

Ah ! ' said Mr. Bushell scoffingly, ' an' dear
me, too. Three hundred pound ! If it's young
Banks, and it looks like it — don't it? — if it's
hmi as I took such notice of an' took such a

fancy to an' trusted — . . . Why, damn it, it's
beyond believing' — ain't it ? '

'Very extraordinary indeed,' the manager
responded. ' You can swear that you never
signed this cheque, sir? The signature is
remarkably well imitated.'

Swear it ! ' said Mr. Bushell. ' I'd swear
it on my dying' bed.'

We must proceed with caution, sir,' said
the manager, beginning; to relish this new
mental flavour as he grew accustomed to it.
No sport so enjoyable as man-hunting, when
once you get your hand in. ' A false arrest
would set the real criminal on his guard, and
he mvjh.t get clean off. We must be cautious,
sir.'

Cautious ! ' said the other, with a heavy
jeer. ' Cautious, when I find these in young
Banks's room, where nobody ever goes but him
an' me ! ' He held the crumpled scraps in
the manager's face. ' Cautious, when young
Banks come to the bank himself an' drawer
for it ! He was cautious to some tune, he was.
I'll caution him ! You send for a policeman.'

One trifle and another had kept the guilty
George from looking at the sporting news in
that day's paper, but having finished his reply
to Dunn and Bollinger, he sauntered out for
the local journal, and returning leisurely, found
on opening the sheet that Erebus was established
as first favourite. In his rejoicing at this
happy condition of affairs he arose and waltzed
softly round the room, and snapped his fingers
smiling. He had always felt so sure about
Erebus that it was most flattering on the
horse's part to come to the front in this way.
He sat down beside the fire in the chair his
employer was wont to use, and gave his mind
to pleasant fancies. There was a sense of
thanksgiving in his mind. And he was quite
persuaded that he was never adam to be such
a fool as to run the risk of being mistaken fora
criminal. For of course he had only been
borrowing the money, and yet people are so
stupid that discovery would have stamped him
with indelible disgrace. As for the affair of
the cash-box, that wore an altogether different
complexion. Daniel did not want the money.

and would not have really missed it even bad
the box been full ; and after all, a son has
some right to consideration at his father's
hands, and if a father is miserly, a high-spirited
young man has his remedy. But
happily there would be no further need for
transactions of either nature. People are
opinionated and given to jumping at false
conclusions. To have had the forgery detected
would have been excessively unpleasant,
and it was comforting to know that he could
restore the money.

Eat-tat-tat-tat at the front door. Then the
door was somewhat violently opened. It clung
a little in moist weather, and opened with a
shivering jar of bolts and chain. Nothing at
all remarkable in it, but somehow George
noticed it, and will remember it all his life.
Mr. Bushell's voice, sounding bullying and
angry, cried, ' Come this way.' George
whipped out of his master's chair and into
his own, and in one second was so deep sunk in
business that he did not even look up at the
Wrongful Hek's noisy entry.

Officer ! ' said the Wrongful Heir, with
something of an inclination towards melodrama
' Officer, do your duty.'

I suppose you'll come quiet and take it
easy ? There won't be any need for these, eh ? *
A quiet, gentlemanly-looking man, the local
inspector, was holding up a pair of brightly
burnished handcuffs.

Why,' said George with a sick frost inside
him, * what — what do you mean ? '

Very sorry, Mr. Banks,' said the inspector,
I wanted it done quietly out of consideration
for you, and so I came myself. It's a charge
of forgery. Three hundred pounds.' George
lurched to his feet, and looked at the inspector
in a ghastly agony and terror. ' Mr. Bushell
brings the charge. I should advise you not to
say anything. You can if you like, but it maybe
used against you on your trial.'

George said nothing, less because of the
official advice than because he could not have
spoken a word just then if one word could have
proved it all a dream.

'That's right,' said the inspector genially.
Nobody's think anything of seeing you and
me in the street together. This your hat?
Come along.'

What a walk it was honor the hio^h street !
What a nightmare the little formalities made in
the room hung round with maps and cutlasses
and handcuffs ! What a sensation to remember
when the official's gentle hand insinuated itself
into George's pockets, and possessed itself of
penknife and keys and purse and pocket-book !
A corridor, a paved yard, a fustian-clad ruffian
exercising there, who laughed and called him
mate ' ; and then — the cell. Lord Byron has
told us that until the ear becomes more Irish
and less nice, the sound of a pistol cocking at
twelve paces is remarkable. The amazing old
ladies who get into the papers on the strength
of the fact that they have been two hundred
times imprisoned for being drunk and disorderly
may perhaps have grown used to another click
which has a singular sound in the ear of a
novice — the click of a key in the lock of a

police cell. But nothing much less than their
experience can take the sting out of it. The
sound seemed to run a little icy needle of
despair into the criminal's marrow.

And Erebus was first favourite, after all.

CHAPTER XI.

The English Law, being (at least in part) a
civilised code, professes to deal with intentions
as well as with actions. But before the law can
deal with them, it is clear that the intentions
must be pretty obvious. George had intended
to pay back the money he had borrowed from
his employer; but the intent was nowhere
discoverable by the legal eye, and went for
nothing. And yet Erebus was first favourite.
Even a dull man may see how poignant an
aggravation of the pain this was. If old
Bushell had but kept quiet for a few more
weeks, had been out of the way, had taken to
his bed, had been bled — anything — the thing
would have been over. Eor of course it was
preposterous beyond the dreams of madness
to suppose that a man in George's position

intended to let a danger like this hang over him
a minute longer than he could help it. It was
more than incredible that any man should
barter freedom, good name, love, the Saracen,
and the acres of Quarrymoor for three hundred
pounds. And it was wilder than ever
to suppose it when the three hundred
pounds were to be got so cheaply and so

easily.

Even a worm will turn. If you hunt any
creature too hard, it will do its strong or feeble
best to rend you. It was surely too bad to
brand a young man of George's prospects as a
felon, simply because for a week or two he had
borrowed from another man's abundance.
George turned and stood at bay against the
situation. He resolved that through thick and
thin he would swear to the end that George
Bushell had signed the cheque and sent him to
the bank with it, and had trumped up this
charge to ruin him. He would defy experts,
he would defy everybody. He swore to stand
at bay, and if he fell, to fall with the look of a
martyr. Perhaps — perhaps — his father or Ethel

might believe him, and he need not lose everything.


I am afraid this young man will take a
good deal of moulding before he becomes
respectable.

The news of the arrest went through the
town like wildfire ; for George was a well-known
figure, and his father one of the primeval
citizens of the place, or so it seemed to modern
fancies. Yet, far and wide as it travelled, the
news halted at the door of the Saracen, and
neither Daniel nor Dinah had yet heard it.
That such a thing could be never entered the
mind of Mr. William Bowker and his mates, the
nightly frequenters of the Saracen's kitchen
from time almost immemorial. Tummas Howl,
very grey by this time, Aminadab, and Meshach,
and Ebenezer, also grey, kept up the habits of
middle age and youth, and (unless when engaged
upon the ' night-shift ') would have felt
themselves homeless without the Saracen after
working hours.

They had all heard the news, and met at
the accustomed corner. For it is the habit in

the Black Country to drop into a public-house
though you have done it for a lifetime at the
same hour every day — as if you did it by
accident, and William and his comrades were
not superior to this transparent pretence.

Well, chaps,' said one, ' this is a sad sort o'
come-down for poor ode Dan'l, seat it ? '

ah,' said another, 'it's all that. It'll bethe
finishing' on him, I reckon.'

'It seat to be took for settled,' said Mr
Bowker, ' as he's done it. Not till he's been
afore the magistrate.'

Course not,' they all assented.

Groin' to look in to-nia^ht ? ' asked
Meshach.

I think not,' Aminadab answered.

Fellers ! ' pleaded Mr. Bowker ; 'be we
groin' to turn we backs on a friend cos he's i'
trouble ? '

'Treat likely,' said Ebenezer, who commonly
followed William's lead.

For my part,' said Mr. Bowker, ' I'd sooner
goo twice as often an' drink twice as much, to
keep their spirits up a bit.'

'You'd i' the right, William,' responded
Ebenezer.

Then come on, chaps,' said Friendship's
champion. ' Tek no notice, and mek no differ.
They'd like thee all the better for not seeming'
to know as anything's the matter.'

William's Lieutenant followed his lead, and
the rest followed the lieutenant.

Dinah met them in the passage as they
entered, and had her word for each. ' Goodnight,
William. Good night, Meshach,' and so
forth. She had known them since she was a baby.

Since young Joe's departure, so many years
ago, Dinah's manner had always been a little
tinctured by sadness, but in such a way that
people took it rather for gentleness and tender
less than for sorrow. But latterly, and with good
reason, she had been plainly sorrowful and depressed,
and to-night she was unusually mournful
. George, her boy, the baby she bore, her
consolation, her fear, and next her sorest
trouble, had never dared to face her since the
morning after her discovery of his theft. And
now he was away from the house all day long,

and kept away until it was closed at night.
Only an hour ago Daniel had been storming
about it, and vowing that he would get to the
bottom of it, and the mother had broken into
tears. The servant-girl who acted as kitchen
waitress of an evening was engaged, and Dinah,
who could scarce control her face from openly
showing signs of heartbreak, served the men
with her own hands.

Eh, dear me,' said one when she had gone,
leaving the ale upon the table, 'her takes it
plucky, but it's bitter hard, poor creature.'

Yis,' said Mr. Bowker, with pretended cynicism
; ' trouble's bitter hard whenever it comes.'

How's poor Dan'l takin' it, I wonder ? ' said
Aminadab.

Gorramity knows ! ' William answered,
and rising left the room.

He's a sharp-tongued un at times, Willy um
is,' said Meshach, ' but he's a bit soft-hearted,
too. I seed the tears in his eyes.'

'Well, thee knowest,' observed Tummas,
who was the Nestor of the house, ' Dan'l was as
good's a feather to William when he broke his

arm a-tr}^in' to save yoimg Turn mas, my
nevers

In point of fact, William felt the position so
keenly that he could not bear to sit in the
house. He walked into the sanded passage,
and there stood Dinah. Everybody knows
how foolish it seems in little things like this to
be detected in the act of going about without a
purpose, and ]mr. Bowker, who had walked
away for no other reason than to hide an emotion
of which he was ashamed, at once feigned
an object and walked briskly up the passage.
As he passed Dinah, he cast a furtive swift
glance at her, and saw that she was crying.

]\Iisris,' he said, pausing at once before her,
and forgetting his own advice at the sight of
her tears, ' perhaps you'd just as soon as we
shouldn't stop to-night. Say the word, an' I'll
turn 'em out in a minute. Yo mote think as
we ain't friendly becos we come to-night. We
thought you'd like it better to look as if nothing'
had happened.'

Happened I ' cried Dinah. ' What has happened
? '

VOL. I. s

The truth flashed upon the man in a
second, and he stood speechless.

What has happened ? ' Dinah again demanded.


I never thought,' said he, ' as it 'ud be my
part to be the messenger o' sham an' sorrow i'
this house. It's got to be known, however, soon
or late.'

What is it ? ' Dinah besought him with her
hands upon her bosom. ' Tell me.'

Your brother George is in prison,' he
answered.

No, no, no, William ! ' said poor Dinah,
grasping him with feeble hands.

God forge' me,' said he, ' as I should be the
one to tell you, but it's true. Bear it, missis,
bear it, for the Lord's sake. It'll be the death
o' Dan'l, I doubt.'

Why ? why ? ' cried Dinah, wringing her
hands together, ' why is he put in prison ? '

He oughtn't be guilty, mind you,' began
William. But Dinah laid hands upon him and
looked at him so that he had pity on her beseeching
face and panting bosom, and struck the

blow at once. * He's charged with forging' on
his master for three hunted pound.'

How loner does it take to orrasD a state of
things like this and to form a resolution ? The
streets were pitch-dark, except for a glimmering
lamp or two, which indeed rather set the darkness
off than relieved it, and it was raining drearily.
Dinah dashed into the roadway so swiftly that
William, who had looked away from her whilst
he gave the evil tidings, saw nothing of her buta
waving skirt as she went through the doorway.
Fearing mischief, though of what sort
he scarcely dared to guess, he ran out after
her, and saw the waving skirt assail as she
ran round the corner. He remembered suddenly
that the canal lay in that direction, and
rushed after her at full speed. She was running
like a mad creature when he came up
with her and laid a restraining hand upon her
shoulder.

Don't stop me,' she panted. ' Let me

go.'

Xo missis, not there,' said William, pleading
with her. ' Not there.'

8 2

I must go,' she cried. 'It is the only
chance to save him.*

She was going not only in the direction of
the canal, but towards George Bushell's house,
and he saw a part of her purpose at once.

He's as hard,' said William, ' as the nether
millstone.'

I must go,' was all that Dinah answered,
and he released her, but followed close at her
elbow. They had scarcely gone twenty yards
when he pulled his coat off and threw it over
her shoulders, but she let it fall, and he ran on
with her, disregarding it. Down the road she
sped, going so swiftly that it put the man to
his best pace to keep up with her, and crossing
the canal bridge turned sharply to the right,
and held on until she reached the gate of
George Bushell's house. Whilst William rang
the bell she pressed the palms of her hands
against the gate twice or thrice, as if she made
even to it the beginning of the appeal she had
in her mind. A door was heard to open, and a
step came crunching down the gravelled drive.

'Keep it in, missis,' said William, laying

his hand again upon her shoulder. ' Go to him
quiet like. It's the best way, I'm sure.'

Yes, yes,' she answered, laying her hands
again and again upon the gate, as if it were
sensible to her prayer and could answer it.

Who's there ? ' asked a voice from within.

I want to see mr. Bushell,' said Dinah ; ' I
must see him.'

A sturdy woman opened the gate and
answered,

Is that you. Miss Banks ? I'm afeard it's
no use your coming. He's as hard as hard. I
never seed him s' angry.'

I must see him,' said Dinah. ' Let me in.
Don't tell him I am here. I must see him.'

Her manner was still urgent, but had on a
sudden grown collected. Bootless as her
errand might seem to others, she had a secret
power in reserve, and began to feel its comfort.
Perhaps the housekeeper felt something of the
strange influence with which strong feeling in
strong natures acts at times even upon the
vulgares hearts ; or she may have been moved
by some memory of Dinah's kindness in time

of trouble. She risked something at least in
granting Dinah's wish, but she granted it.

Come wi' me,' she said ; and, leading the
way swiftly into the hall, pointed to a door.
In there,' she whispered, and whisked upstairs
as a rabbit makes up-hill for his burrow.

Dinah turned the handle of the door and
entered, leaving Mr. Bowker standing in his
coal shirt-sleeves in the hall. George Bushell
was sitting by the fireside, pipe in mouth, looking
woodenly respectable as of old. His face
was flushed, but expressed the internal disturbance
he felt in no other readable way.
He was a temperate man as a rule, but on the
strength of his secretary's unexpected defection
from virtue he had been drinking. Whisky
brings out a man's true nature, as for a minute
or two you can see the real tones of an old
picture by passing a sponge across it. He was
naturally and bitterly indignant. He had
helped to break four hearts to get his money,
but he had never committed forgery, and of
course he loathed the crime. He never knew
how much until he found it practised on himself.

And all this apart, he had liked George,
and had done something to push him on in the
world. He could never have been got to like
anybody who was not of use to him, but
George had been useful, and it had been
pleasant to talk about his private secretary.
The possession of a private secretary seemed
to carry a sort of dignity with it, and a man
naturally keeps his best regards for those
people who are of advantage to him and reflect
credit on him.

Hilloo I ' he said, starting from his seat, and
for the second time that day he dropped his
long clay into the fender. ' What brings you
here ? '

Dinah's hair and face were wet ^vith ram,
and her dress was a little disordered. But she
was something more than comely even under
these conditions, and she had the seat ad vantage
of being a woman ; so that ]\L\ Bushell
felt the brutality of this welcome as soon as he
had uttered it.

I have come,' said Dinah, ' to speak to
you about George.' She panted a little in her

speech, but otherwise she seemed wonderfully
collected. 'I have come to ask you not to
appear against him.'

I'm very sorry for you, Miss Banks,' said
the Wrongful Heir, with natural and excusable
surliness, ' but the law must tek it's course.'

There is a reason for my asking it,' said
Dinah. ' Believe me, there is a reason. You
must not go against him.'

'The matter's out o' my hands,' returned
Mr. Bush ell, ' an I've got no more to do with
it. I'm sorry for the young man's relations,
but he should ha' thought about them afore
he did what he did. It's out o' my power to
move i' the matter, an' the law must tek its
course.'

Saying this, he made a motion to leave
the room, but Dinah set herself between him
and the door.

No,' she besought him. '• Let him go
away and begin life again. If you knew what
I could tell you, you would let him go.' Her
hands, and her very body, besought him.
Oh, let him go, Mr. Bushell. Let Inn go.'

Nobody's temper can last for ever, and it
was hard to be pestered in this way after being
robbed.

I'll see him damn'd must ! ' cried the
Wrongful Heir, indignant at the monstrosity of
the proposal. Dinah's life had been a sacrifice,
and she could scarcely miss such a chance of
self-torture for another's sake as the situation
presented.

Listen for a moment,' she said, laying such
a grip upon the lappet of his coat when he
strove to pass her that he could not disengage
himself without violence. 'You can't send
your own flesh and blood to prison.'

My flesh and blood ! ' said George Bushell.
Why, you're ravin.'

Listen to me,' said Dinah, clinging to him.
He is your flesh and blood. He is your
nephew Joseph's child.'

What ! ' he said, falling back a step and
drawing her with him.

Before Joe went away,' she answered,
speaking rapidly, ' him and me was married at
Waston Church on a Whit-Sunday. George

is our child, and if lie had his rights he'd have
more than half your money, Mr. BushelL But
when Joe went away I never spoke a word
about it, and nobody but mother knew.'

That's a poor sort of a lie, missis,' said the
Wrongful Heir. But all the colour of his face
had faded, and he trembled in Dinah's hands.

It's as true as heaven ! ' she answered. ' I
kept it secret up to now, an' robbed him of
his money all the while, but I won't see him
sent to prison. All his grandfather left is his
by right, but he shall never know it, an' never
ask you for a penny. Let him go ! '

Then she released him and fell upon her
knees.

Young Joe's money had belonged to Uncle
George so long that it had grown into him and
become a part of him, no more to be taken
away from him than heart or brains. And
was it possible that now — after a lapse of four-and-twenty
years — his hold upon it could be
threatened ? Strange things happen sometimes,
and it fell upon the dull conscience of the old
schemer like a blow to remember that, after

all, the wealth was wickedly gained, and might
not prosper. For in his way he was orthodox,
and, like the devils, he believed, but he had
never trembled until now. This might be God's
vengeance on him. He was a respectable man,
and he had believed in God, theoretically, all
his life. Xow, belief began to take a practical
cast, and, as revolutions of opinion will, it
shook him. But dull and slow as he was, and
staggered as he was by this amazing story, he
was not long in seeing the tremendous flaw
in it.

'My brother Joseph,' he said slowly, with
some tremor in his tones, ' was wu'th a quarter
a million o' money when he died. Xow, that's
a deal o' money, an' my never Joseph was
rightful heir to it if he'd been alive. If you
are his wife, how comes it you never said a
word about it ? Answer me that.'

He took the marriage lines away with him
when he left home,' responded Dinah. 'I
parted with him on a Sunday — the day he hit
Mr. Screed, and his mother ordered him out of
house an' home — and he promised me he'd

send 'em, but I never heard a word of him
again, and now beyond doubt he's been dead
these years and years. But George is his child,
Mr. Bushell, his lawful child. You've got all
his money. Be content with that. We'll
never ask you for a penny, and his fatherly
pay you back the three hundred pounds. Let
him go.'

He went untouched by her distress, for he
had his own affairs to think of. He was never
particularly accessible to other people's emotions,
and now, if ever in his life, he was self-absorbed.


You won't go against your own flesh and
blood, Mr. Bushell ! ' said weeping Dinah,
thinking that his silence gave a little hope.

He answered her out of his own nature.

'If you made a slip with my never
Joseph, that's your look-out.' She was on her
feet before him in a second. ' You hid your
shame pretty cunning,' he went on, ' an' you'd
best ha' kept it hid.' He was not a wise man,
and he disbelieved the story simply because it
sounded improbable. He was ready enough

to believe that Dinah had tripped in her
younger days, and that George Banks was his
nephew's son, but he gave no credence to the
story of the marriage and the lost ' Hues.' Atone
moment he was on the edge of a question
which might have wrecked his fortunes. The
jeering query trembled on his tongue — why
not go to the church at which the marriage
took place and get a copy of the entry there ?
But there was just a chance that the tale was
true, and he held his tongue, asking himself if
such simplicity was believable.

Dinah stood before him with eyes suddenly
brightened, and a flush of colour on her cheek.

I am your never Joseph's wedded wife,'
she said. ' We was married at Waston Church
last Whit-Sunday was five-and-twenty years.
And George was our lawful-born child ; and if
everybody had their rights, he'd have his
grandfather's money. I don't want that. I
only ask you to let him go.'

I don't believe a word o' your tale,' he
said slowly. ' If you could ha' proved it,
you'd ha' done that long an' long ago. Whoever

lie is, the Iciw'll ha' to take it's course, an' if
he was my own child, I'd do the same with
him.'

Will you take your three hundred pounds
back again and let him go ? ' asked Dinah desperately.


It was a temptation to which his sense of
public justice would have yielded before George
was fairly in the hands of the police ; but it
was not to be thought of now. He knew nothing
of the rules of criminal procedure, and
believed himself already bound to carry on the
prosecution.

No,' he answered. ' He's committed a
crime agen the law, an' he must suffer for it.'

It shall be known,' said Dinah, growing
more and more desperate as the failure of her
mission became obvious. ' It shall be known
as you know who he is. It shall be known far
an' wide as you send your own flesh an' blood
to prison. I kept it hid all these years, but I
don't care now, and I'll have my rights as
Joseph Bushell's lawful wedded wife.' He
turned a little . pale, but said nothing. ' If I

have to walk barefoot to the Queen herself,'
said poor Dmah, weeping fast and speaking
with a piteously broken voice, ' I'll do it. And
if she makes a law o' purpose, she'll give me
back my honest name an' give my child his
lawful rights.'

There might be something in it after all, he
thought, she stuck so to her point. All the
more reason then to fight the matter out, and
clear the pretenders off the ground. Old
Daniel would never face the shame of a trial
for his son, real or reputed, and George himself
would be in prison. A wooden man, as I have
said of him already. A dull, slow, unperceptive,
unimaginative man. And yet he saw as
if in a drama acted before him Daniel's flight
of shame, and George's committal, and the
popular discredit of Dinah's story, and he
answered her.

You're a-threatenin', are you ? Then
leave my house. I know my booty, an' I've
done my booty all my life, an' I shall do it
now.' He flung the door wide open. ' Get
out, you baggage I I' my young days you'd

ha' had your legs i' the stocks for such a tale
as you've brought to me.'

Here, I say, Gaffer,' cried Mr. Bowker
from the hall, ' draw it mild ! '

Hilloo ! ' said the disciple of duty, peering
at him savagely. ' Who's that ? What do
you do here ? '

'I come along o' the lady,' answered
William. ' That's what I do here. I tone her
as yo' was a hard un, but I depart expect to
hear you go on i' that way.'

Get out, the pair o' you ! ' shouted the old
man wrathfully. ' I think you're i' my employ.
Tek a minute's notice now an' leave it.'

All right,' returned Mr. Bowker with
sudden cheerfulness as of one who has received
a gift, ' I've got the bag. Come along, missis,'
he continued with a ludicrously sudden turn
to notes of sympathy. ' I was afeard you'd
mek nothing' out o' him. He's known for what
he is — he is.'

His employer had the front door open.

Get out ! ' he cried again. ' Bringing' a
pack o' lies to me an' making' yourself out no

better that you should be ! Get out I ' He
boiled by this time with virtuous indignation.

Ah ! ' cried Dinah's ineffectual champion.
Shut up ! Be ashamed o' yourself. To talk
to a woman i' trouble like that ! Why, y'ode
rip, wheel's your bowels ? '

They were on the doorstep, and George
Bushell slammed the door behind them fiercely.

If I snowed,' he growled, ' as it was true,
I'd fight it every inch. It's all a pack o' lies,
though — a pack o' lies ! '

Oh. William,' cried Dinah, wringing her
hands in the darkness and the rain, ' what shall
I do? What 5Aa/a do ? '

The tears were in the soft-hearted fellow's
eyes again, but he could offer her no comfort.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XII.

George had not long to wait for an opportunity
to vindicate himself. The petty sessions were
held the morning after his arrest.

A prison couch is rarely luxurious, even
though a man be blessed with that approving
conscience which is popularly and mistakenly
supposed to make him quite easy in his mind.
It is easy to be virtuously indignant about a
scoundrel and his doings, but harder, much
harder to understand him, to see things from
his point of view, to comprehend his self-justification,
his excuses. To my mind, a scoundrel
is much to be pitied for being a scoundrel.
His detection and punishment are good things
for him, and we who are virtuous may claim
for his soul's good to see that the knots of the
whip are drawn tight, and that a strong arm
lays it on. But we are not without compassion

as lie writhes. It is hard measure. Could he
have exercised an unblessed judgment to
begin with, he would ]Di'ohably have chosen
another lot than this.

But our young criminal was not yet converted
to the ways of wisdom. The rat who
has made predatory excursions after your salad
oil is not converted when the avencfinor terrier
gets him into a corner. He squeals, and bites
if he can, and dies with the rat-pulses of him
beating to the tune of despairing vengeance.
George was very angry. He anathematised
Bush ell and Curtice and the spirit merchant
whose half-chance call had so depleted the
cash-box. Why did nobody come near him ?
Why was not his father here to offer bail until
the morrow, and to show a little of that
fatherly faith which, even if misplaced, was
surely due to one whose guilt had not yet been
proved ? If they could not prove what he had
done with the money, he tried to persuade
himself that he might yet have a squeak for
liberty. It was only Bushell's word against
his, and he would face it out. In hours of

T 2

extremity you see safety in any foolish trifle.
There Alas no reason why Curtice should
talk, and if he held his tongue it was a
point in the prisoner's favour. Ethel's silence,
of course, was certain. Not even feminine
spite at being disgraced could make her false
to him. The poor wretch did love her, after
all, as well as he knew how to love, and he
could not think as ill of her as he did of everybody
else. If his best conceptions of her were
shameful to her — and they were — he gave her
his best, and it was love that created them.
Ethel would be staunch to him, and would not
betray him. If he were found guilty, she
might send the money back secretly to George
Bushell, but until then she would hold it for
him, and keep a still tongue. He did not upbraid
himself for being a villain and a fool, but
he upbraided circumstance for the hard
measure dealt out to him. Only to have
quietly borrowed three hundred pounds, with
the most upright of intentions, and to lose
Ethel, the acres of Quarrymoor, home, good
name, the Saracen, Daniel's quiet but substantial

earnings, — the punishment and the offence
seemed unequaL

There was a ^Yise man in the East whose
constant prayer it was that he might see to-day
with the eyes of tomorrow.

The inspector lent the prisoner brushes and
other necessaries in the morning, and even gave
him a clean shirt, taking George's in return.
There was no news from the Saracen, and the
prisoner dared not send there, believing his
father's silence due to Dinah's betrayal of the
truth in that unfortunate affair of the cash-box ;
or, at least, having fear enough of the betrayal
to keep him from making even the slightest
appeal to home.

How loner the nis^ht had Seemed, and how

CO '

slowly the shackled feet of the minutes crawled
along in the morning ! I have talked ^vith an
Englishman who was led out one frosty morning
during the Carlist War to be shot, and who
was standing at the head of the grave which
had been dug for him, when he was released
and set at liberty. He told me, I remember,
that the only sensation he felt was one of

absolute physical emptiness, as though the interior
of his trunk were a scientific vacuum. He
was a brave man too, and had distinguished himself
under fire pretty often. There was something
of that unpleasant sensation in the
criminal's interior when at last a hand was laid
upon him and he was told to rise and mount
a set of corkscrew steps which led from the
waiting-chamber of justice into the hall itself.
The hall of justice was small and shabby, and
there were fifty or sixty people packed into it
like herrings in a barrel. There were hundreds
more outside eager for a look at hiin^
doomed for the present to be disappointed.
The prisoner was a good-looking young fellow,
tall, straight, and broad-shouldered, scrupulously
dressed and groomed. He smoothed
his silky moustache nervously with his ringed
hand, and stood squarely there, at military
ease. Nobody at first looking at him thought
him likely to be guilty. The women who
were squeezed in with the other spectators
were with him every one.

The proceedings were formal, and necessarily

incomplete. George Bushell, sworn,
made his statement, denying the validity of
the cheque, and producing the crumpled scraps
he had discovered. The bank manager, sworn,
made Ais statement, and proved that the
prisoner had himself cashed the cheque. He
admitted that he had noticed nothing suspicious
or peculiar in Mr. Banks's demeanour,
Nothing.

Had the prisoner anything to say in answer
to the charge ? He need say nothing. Any
thing he did say would be taken down. The
case could not be dealt with there, and would
have to go for trial.

George answered in a voice which the
local reporter called ' unmoved,' though to
himself it sounded as if somebody else were
speaking.

I am perfectly innocent of the charge
brought against me. I received the cheque
from Mr. Bushels own hands, and paid the
money over to him on his return from London.
I am at a loss to understand the accusation,
unless it has been brought forward with the

diabolical intention of ruining an innocent
man.'

Suddenly a heart had found its way into
the internal vacuum, and it beat madly at the
prisoner's side. Could the people hear it?
There was such a clamour of excited tongues
when the prisoner had made this speech, that
the officials ejected half a dozen of the spectators,
and lodged them on the packed and crowded
stairs before silence was restored.

That is one of two things, Mr. Banks,'
said the magistrate. ' It is either a very complete
defence, or a very foolish one. If it is
not true, nothing could tell more heavily
against you than such a defence.'

It is true,' said the prisoner, and nine out
of ten believed him for the moment.

The case, said the magistrate, must be remanded
until Wednesday. In the meantime
the police would make all inquiry after the
whereabouts of the notes in which the cheque
had been paid. The bank manager had with
him a memorandum of the notes, and, being
again put in|;o the box, swore to its accuracy.

The prisoner was removed, no bail being
offered or demanded. The day's work was
over, and the crowd dispersed. An hour later,
the news flew through the town that more than
half the notes were traced. Curtice the solicitor
had paid them into the bank the day after
that on which they had been drawn, and being
interrogated, had declared that the prisoner had
handed them to him in satisfaction of an
account long overdue.

Even in the popular mind, impressed as it
had been by the firmness of the prisoner's
counter-accusation against his employer,
George's position began to look fishy.

The Saracen stood all that day with bolted
doors, shuttered windows, and down-drawn
blinds. Dinah would have fain left the house on
her own mission, but Daniel, who by this time
knew the disgrace which had fallen upon him,
had sternly forbidden her, and had indeed
driven her to her room and locked her in therewith
unwonted imprecations.

I do not believe that there is any criminally-minded
cur alive who would not deny himself

his crime, if he could see the brood that it is
sure to bear.

Even public gossip, which is irreverent
enough, and even private spite, which is upon
occasion cruel, spare something, and Ethel heard
no word of the dreadful tidings of her lover's
wickedness. But the daily newspaper spares
nobody, and in its columns she read the tale.
And how, will you ask, did she accept the
story ? How should she accept it, but like the
loyal and true-hearted maid she was, with
passionate faith in her lover, and unmeasured
defiance and scorn for his accuser ! It never entered
into lier heart for a fraction of a second to
believe him guilty. Guilty ? He — her lover ?
The policeman who arrested him, the magistrate
who committed him, the people who looked on
and listened were sunk beneath the lowest reach
of contemptuous indignation, not to know, not
to see at a glance, that he was and must be
innocent.

And so, not merely thinking him guiltless,
but feeling as persuaded of his honour as if she
herself had held it in her keeping, she turned

about to see in Avhat way she could be of service
to him. She was quick to see and understand
anything set before her, and though she
was as ignorant of legal matters as most
women are, it seemed strange to her that nobody
should have spoken for him. Surely he should
have had a lawyer to defend him, but the
stupidities had only arrested him the day before,
and were bent, apparently, on affording him as
little chance as possible for the proof of his
transparent innocence. The man of business
who had made her father's will, and who still
manacled such small lec^al concerns as Mrs.
Donne was afflicted with, lived thirty miles
away, and she knew no other lawyer. Yes —
there was Mr. Keen, but she did not think well
of Mr. Keen's spiritual prospects, and she had
begged George to cease to associate with him.
There were other lawyers to be had, and she
could easily find them. But then came the question
of money. She had heard it said emphatically
that lawyers, above all men, demanded
that their services should be paid for. That
was Uncle Borge's verdict, and Uncle Bors^e

was of a decidedly litigious character — and had
experience.

There was the money George had given
her. For such a purpose as she had in mind
it was surely righteous to use that. She took
the bundle of notes from their hiding-place,
slipped them into her bosom, dressed and set
out upon her walk. The roads were miry, but
the day was bright and clear, freshened with
recent rains. Ethel was a good pedestrian, asa
farmer's daughter should be, and the four
miles were not much to her, animated by such
a purpose as she bore.

At the edge of the town she encountered
an undersized coal man in very heavy and
very dirty flannel. Any lady strange to the
district might have been excused if the coal
man's exterior had deterred her from addressing
him. But Ethel approached him without any
thought of his appearance.

Can you direct me to a lawyer's office ? '
she asked.

Why, yis, miss,' said Mr. Bowker. ' There's
Mr. Keen's office round' the corner. It's nine

or ten house up wi' a brass plaint o' the
door.'

Do you know another lawyer ? ' she
asked. She had an objection to consuming
Mr. Keen.

Mr. Bowker did know of another lawyer,
as it happened, and volunteered to show the
way.

I need not trouble you,' said the ghi with
a sort of sad graciousness.

Trouble ! ' said Mr. Bowker, with great
gallantry. ' It's no trouble to do a turn fora
good-lookin' lady. This way, miss, if yo'
please.'

Ethel followed perforce, and Mr. Bowker
led her by intricate ways to the office of a ]mr.
Packmore, an elderly conveyancer, who had
no more to do with criminal legatees than I
have. But he was able to tell her that Mr.
John Keen had undertaken the defence of the
prisoner ; and so fate seemed to push her
towards Mr. John Keen in spite of herself.
Mr. Bowker had waited outside, and now

led her back again, declining her proffered
gratuity.

Pray take it,' said Ethel.

No, miss, thank you,' answered William ;
you dort look the sort to want to mek a mon
feel ashamed of himsen.'

Ethel withdrew the proffered florin swiftly,
with a little blush.

I am very much obliged to you,' she said.

'Not a bit on it,' protested Mr. Bowker.
I dort git the chance to tak' a walk wi' a young
lady every day. Let alone a nice-looking un,'
he added, fearing lest the compliment might
seem feebly expressed without that addendum.

Sad as she was, she could scarcely thank
him with less than a smile. William grinned
and ducked responsive.

Mr. Keen was at home and would receive
Miss Doniie. He rose when she entered, and
pushed his long hair back with both hands,
looking at her earnestly and with evident
sadness.

I think,' he began, ' that I can guess the
object of your visit.'

I am told she answered, ' that you are defending
Mr. Banks.' John nodded miserably,
and shifted his papers to and fro upon Ms desk.
'I did not know,' she went on, 'until this
morning that any charge had been preferred
against him. But I saw from the newspaper
that he had no lawyer, and I came to engage
one. Did he send for you ? '

No,' said John unwillingly, ' not exactly.
We were old school-fellows, and his people
seemed to desert him, and I thought '

His voice trailed off, and he left the sentence
unfinished.

Thank you, Mr. Keen,' said Ethel, rising
from her chair and impulsively holding out
her hand. 'Any one who has known him
can tell how ridiculous the accusation is.'

John took her hand in an embarrassed
way, and with embarrassment released it.

'We must do our best,' he said, with a
dismal attempt at cheerfulness.

If I wanted an argument for his innocence
of such a shameful crime,' said Ethel, reseating
herself — ' and I certainly don't want anything

of the sort — I have it with me now. Before a
man commits a crime he must have a motive
for it. George was saving money, and had a
considerable sum in his possession at the very-time
when he is said to have forged this
cheque.' She spoke with such an assured and
quiet scorn that John Keen's heart ached for
her. But he had his wits about him, too.

Come,' he said, brightening a little, • that
is something in his favour, if we can prove it.'
He knew his client pretty thoroughly, and
thought him guilty, but there was a chance
that his story of a conspiracy was true, after
all, though the chance was certainly one of the
slenderest.

I can prove it,' said Ethel quietly. She
disliked this young man again, because he was
not as certain of her lover's innocence as she
was. ' You know already,' she went on, ' that
Mr. Banks and I were engaged to be married.'
That was a theme about which on common
occasions Ethel would not have spoken to anybody
except her mother and her lover, but she
spoke of it now as a matter of course, and with

no confusion. John nodded again. Her pride
in George and her certainty of him were
troublesome to his spirit, for he himself was in
love with her with all his heart, and it was
bitter, to be sure, that she had so much to
suffer. ' Looking forward to that, she said, * he
gave me this money — a hundred and ten
pounds — to keep for him.' She laid the bundle
of notes upon the table, and John reached out
for it. This cast a curious light upon the
case, he thought ; but when once he had unfolded
the notes, he fell back in his official
arm-chair and looked at her with so amazed
and stricken a countenance that she arose to
her feet and looked back at him as if his sorrow
and surprise had been an epidemic, and she ina
flash of time had caught it.

Great heaven ! ' he gasped, and, rising,
held out the notes at arm's length. ' Do von
tell me. Miss Donne, that George Banks gave
you these ? '

Yes,' she answered boldly, though amazed.
He let them fall to the table, his arm dropped
heavily to his side, and he fell back into his

VOL. I, U

seat again limply ; then rising on a sudden, lie
paced the room, and pulled at his long hair
with both hands. At this lie regarded him with
increased wonder, following him with her eyes
until, with a final wrench at his hair, he threw
himself bodily into the seat he had just quitted,
and glared at her like one distraught. '' What
is it, Mr. Keen ? ' she asked, not without a
tone of contempt in her voice.

Miss Donne,' protested the young lawyer
earnestly, ' my heart bleeds for you ! ' She
faced him bravely, without a word, waiting for
him. ' I must tell you what it will pain you
terribly to know.'

Tell me,' she said steadfastly, seeing that
lie faltered.

*This,' he said, taking up the bundle of
notes from the table and dropping it again,
*was all that was wanted finally to prove his
guilt. The villain ! ' he muttered, grinding his
teeth and starting to his feet again.

Explain yourself,' she answered, steadfast
still. All colour had flown from her face
except for one spot on either cheek, and her

fine nostrils were a little tinted, but her eyes
glittered with a light which under some circumstances
would have looked dangerous.

I would as soon be shot as do it,' said the
miserable John ; ' but it has to be done.
These are the circumstances : — Mr. Bushell
charges the prisoner with forgery. The
prisoner answers that he received the cheque
from ]mr. Bushell, cashed it for him at the
bank, and paid the money into his hands.
The people at the bank keep a register of the
number of all notes paid out and received ;
they supply the police with a copy of that
register in this particular case, and of course
it becomes the duty of the police to trace the
notes and see whose hands they pass through.
Now, here ' — he handed her a slip of paper
from a pigeon-hole in his desk — 'here is a
copy of the bank manager's memorandum.
Look at the notes yourself. Miss Donne — I hate
myself for telling you ! — and you will see that
you have had put into your innocent hands a
portion of the forger's gains. And now the
murder's out ! '

u 2

The murder was out indeed. In the face
of such evidence, faith was useless. There was
no crevice, in the certainty which prisoned her,
through which the loyalist doubt of love could
struggle. Love's dream was over, and love's
gilded idol lay shattered at her feet. The
amazed contempt and scorn with which she
had read the story of the accusation of her
lover, the loyalty with which she would have
clung to him against all the evidence the wide
world could bring, lent a doubled and redoubled
force to the blow which fell upon
her. She would have taken him to her true
breast, against the jeers of a universe, whilst
she knew him to be true. For she had not
merely thought him honest, believed him honest
she knew him to be honest, as only love
knows love ; and after all, his truth was a lie,
and the' gift of his love a shame from which no
years or tears could cleanse her.

I will not try beyond this to tell you how
she suffered.

It was decided, before that terrible interview
closed, that there was but one thing to

be done with the knowledge John Keen had
acquired — to submit it to the authorities. And
so on Wednesday the sight-seers at the pohce-
court beheld the outside of as great a tragedy
as ever a woman's heart played a part in.
Curtice got up and told his tale, and the
prisoner, pallid and desperate, gave him the lie.

Then Ethel Donne appeared in the witness-box,
and the coward's heart stood still.

Dinah was in the court, resolved to tell her
story to the magistrate. For Daniel, after his
first rage, had fallen into lethargy, and had let
her have her way, not even understanding the
tale she told him with so many fawning, piteous
caresses and such tears of heartbreak. John
Keen, to the general surprise, had thrown up
the case for the defence, but sat there in court
with a grey, hard face, and never once looked
from the prisoner's eyes. This persistent regard
drew a shifty glance now and again from
George, but John's aspect never changed.
The angry loathing in it might have disconcerted
even an honourable man.

Ethel, gently handled by the magistrate,

told her story. What it cost to tell it can
never be known. Dinah heard it, and began
to hate her child.

Have you any question to ask this witness,
prisoner?* Thus Sir Sydney Cheston, magistrate.


The human rat in a corner shrieked,
It's false ! It's a vile conspiracy ! '
There rose a cry of indignation from the
little crowd in the packed court.

The child I bore ! ' groaned Dinah. None
heard the words but Ethel ; for Dinah, as she
spoke them, rose beside the witness-box and
stretched out her arms as if to save the girl
from this last and cruellest blow. Ethel
turned to her embrace and fainted on that
sheltering bosom.

CHAPTEE XIII.

Doubt is not incompatible with belief, after all.
A man may believe a thing pretty firmly and
yet have his misgivings about it. Old George
believed that Dinah had lied to him, and having
an interest in that belief, he gave it all the
nourishment he had to give. But he felt like
one who walks on unsafe ground, who cannot
leave the place, and has no clue to the divination
of the moment when the mine may burst.
A sensation not wholly comfortable, as any
successful schemer may believe.

The Eightful Heir was committed to take
his trial, and the Wrongful Heir was bound over
to appear against him. Ethel also was bound
over to appear, and waited for the day with
every hour a dull agony. It came at last, and
Master George, following his own wise maxim

of in for a penny in for a pound, stuck to hi
tale of a conspiracy. He was without defence,
cross-examined no witnesses, but made his
simple and despairing plaint to a jury convinced
of his guilt and a judge whom his base protestations
made angry. When Ethel had recovered
from her swoon in the police court, her
deposition was brought to her to be signed, and
the intelligent and active officer whose duty it
was to see that she signed it, guided her weak
and shaking: li noses with such result that her
signature looked like that of Guy Fawkes after
the rack. The judge had read the depositions
and had seen the signature, and it had got
somehow into the judicial mind that the
prisoner was going to marry socially beneath
him. When, therefore, the name of Ethel
Donne was called aloud, and the girl stepped
into the witness-box, his lordship was very
strongly surprised and favourably impressed by
her appearance. When she told anew the
story of the false trust her lover had invested
in her hands, the hardened official heart began
to discern a tragedy unusually terrible even for

his experience. George stuck to his colours,
and proclaimed himself once more a maligned
and persecuted character, the victim of an
unheard-of conspiracy. The jury, without
leaving the box, found him guilty, and his
lordship (frostily remarking that if the prisoner
had set up another sort of defence he might
have been let off more lightly, in consideration
of his youth, his social condition, and the good
prospects he had ruined) sentenced him to two
years' imprisonment. There was scarcely a
lighter heart that day in Stafford town than old
George's. The burden of fear which had lain
upon him for weeks past fell away and left him
free — free at least for two years, and two years
give time enough even for the slowest man to
turn about in. And apart from that, Dinah's
silence argued the whole thing a lie, so for asher
story of the marriage was concerned.
Beyond the marriage he had no need to trouble
himself, and he began to dismiss even the remotest
fear of that from his mind.

He dined at the Swan, took his way home
by train, and for a day or two he lived on in

the usual way, until a little incident led to a
big one, and he began again to be terribly
afraid — much more afraid, indeed, than before.

It happened in this wise. His housekeeper
brought hin every week a list of the house expenses,
and he had been in the habit of checking
this to the last farthing with his own hand,
even whilst he had resigned the almost entire
care of his vast business concerns to the
scoundrel who had at last forged his name.
She brought in the list now a day or two after
the trial, and George, sitting down to consider
it, arrived at the conclusion that cheese, candles,
tea, coffee, butter, and other articles of household
use were going faster than they should do.
He was in a more than commonly grudging
humour, and there was a sum of two hundred
pounds to be made up somehow by squeezing
something or somebody. He rang for his
housekeeper.

Look here ! ' he said, when she reappeared
in answer to his summons ; 'I'm a-being
robbed right an' left, I am. I shan't stand it,
Mrs. Bullus, an' you'd better mek your mind

up to that at once. Here's two pound of
butter gone since last Saturday, an' a pound ana
half o' candles. An' as for tea an' coffee,
why, you might swim in 'em, to look at these
here accounts. Xow, I've been done pretty
smart already, an' it's the must time, an' it'll bethe
last — mind what I'm a-tellin' you.'

I'm sure, sir,' said Mrs. Bullus, in some
wrath, ' as nobody's got cause to say a word
again' me on that count. I've been a honest
woman all my days, an' if you're say in' anything'
again' me, you'll have to prove your words.
For, what though I'm poor, I ain't that spiritless
to endure it.'

George was getting to be querulous as he
grew old, and that matter of the forgery had
set his temper's teeth on edge so thoroughly
that small things jarred him.

D'ye call this here item right ? ' he asked,
almost fiercely. ' Eight an' sixpence for tea
an' coffee in a week for three people, an' one
on 'em just fetched new out of the works ! '

Mr. Bushell's maid of-all work was but
newly emancipated from the discipline of the

Bastille, as they call the workhouse in those
parts, and was therefore naturally supposed to
be able to content herself on a moderate diet.

Well, it does seem a large sum, sir,' the
housekeeper admitted.

'Why, it couldn't ha' come about at all,'
cried the old man, ' unless I was a-bein' robbed
again. Where's that little hussy of a Jane ?
Fetch her here. I'll poet at the bottom o' this
one way or another.'

Jane's gone up to Mrs. Bunch's to border
a strainer. There ain't a si' fit to use in the
wull house, an' that's as true as I'm a standing'
here if I should never speak another word, an'
the Lord Almighty knows it.'

It was Mrs. Bullus's favourite method of
warfare to carry the fighting into the enemy's
country in this wise whenever she and her
master held a dispute together.

Hold your tongue, woman,' said George
savagely. ' An' when that little trollop comes in
again — Here, never mind waiting' for that. You
come wi' me, an' I'll have a look at her box
now this minute, an' if I find anything their as

don't belong to her, I'll send her to Stafford
Jail as sure as I'm alive. Come along.'

Fie for shame, master,' said Mrs. Bullus.
I wouldn't be that suspicious-like, not to
have every hair o' my head hung wi' gold.
That I wouldn't.'

Come wi me ! ' said her master, so angrily
that, privileged as long service had seemed to
make her, she dare answer him no further.
George Bushell led the way, and the woman,
with an expression of countenance which appeared
to presage a jest of some sort, followed.
The old man walked to the top of the house
and entered a little bare room in the attic. He
glared round him in rage and amazement, seeing
nothing but the bare walls and the floor,
on which there was a great patch of wet corresponding
to another patch in the plastered
ceiling.

Why, what's this ? ' he called to the housekeeper.


This is the room Jane shep' in up till last
Wednesday was a week,' the woman answered
with much seriousness. ' But it's been a-rainin'

SO, an' the roof's that bad, her had to move her
bed into the inner room.'

Why couldn't you ha' tone me that afore,'
asked George, ' instead o' bring' me a-trapesin'
all the way up here ? '

You said, " Come along of me," ' the
housekeeper answered, and grinned broadly allover
her Black Country countenance as her
master, growling, led the way downstairs again.
The room he next entered was half filled with
odds and ends of furniture, broken chairs,
crippled tables, and the like, and in one corner
stood a high-shouldered wardrobe, which had
once made part of the furniture of his brother
Joseph's bedroom. When old Joe died,
brother George had laid hands upon everything,
even upon those things which were of no use
to him. ' Keep a thing long enough, an' you'll
find a use for it,' was one of George's constantly
quoted aphorisms. But he had never dreamed of
keeping this old wardrobe for such a use as at
length he found in it.

It may go without saying that the dull
schemer had long ceased to have any remorse

about young Joe, or the method by which he
himself had acquired young Joe's fortune. At
a very little distance of time the cheque he had
given to his nephew had begun in memory to
communicate a sense of warmth to his heart,
and he thought the gift an almost unexampled
stroke of generosity. Lifeless things which
had once belonged to the brother and sister
whose hearts he helped to break were not likely
to touch him very keenly at any time, and after
these years were scarcely likely to remind him
at all of their first owners. He was absolutely
unaffected by them, and had no present memory
of Joseph and Eebecca nor any thought about
them.

'Turn the things out o' that their box,'
said George. ' I'll see who's a-thievin' i' my
house.'

There was not much in the box, and if
anything in it had been stolen, it had certainly
not been fi:om old George.

This is a nice sort o' place to hide things
in,' said he, whilst the housekeeper loosely
tumbled the things back into the meagre box.

He went, stepping gingerly between broken
chairs and the other lumber with which the
corner was filled, towards the wardrobe. The
door had long since lost its handle, but he
clawed it open, and rapped out a good round
oath, for there at the bottom of the wardrobe
lay a score or two of little packages, mere
newspaper screws, and on these fell the man
who had inherited a quarter of a million
of money and had doubled it. Unfolding
them one by one, he displayed their contents
to the housekeeper with a suppressed
severity of passion worthy of a loftier cause.
In one was an ounce of cheese, in another a
little bit of butter, in a third a table-spoonful
of coffee, in a fourth a pinch or two of moist
sugar. And as the owner of half a million
sterling opened up to the housekeeper's vision
this hidden stolen treasure, the peccant Jane,
who had come into the house by the back way,
bounced into the room and stood guiltily
transfixed before the accusing eyes of her
master.

'Mrs. Bullus,' said old George, regarding

the criminal T\dth Rhadamanthus severity,
fetch a policeman.'

The wretched detected one fell upon her
knees before him with a countenance of imploring
agony.

It was my mother as axed me to do it,'
she declared.

Fetch a policeman,' said George again,
and Mrs. Bullus, with no intention of obeying,
left the room. The master of the house went
on opening the little packages, and spread them
all out before the miserable Jane. ' This is
wheel my household provisions has been a-
going to, is it ! — Eh ? ' said he with withering
sarcasm. ' How many shilling-worths of my
property have you stole? Answer me that
this minute. Cheer's that policeman, Mrs.
Bulls?'

D'ye mind coming' here a minute, master ? '
asked the housekeeper, reappearing. George
picked his way through the debris of the
comer and joined the woman outside.

You don't r'aly want me to fetch a plebeian,
do you? ' she asked.

VOL. I. X

'Yis, I do,' said George; but no man is
insensible to the feelings of other people, and
he hastened to add : ' I want to give the young
madam a good fright.'

Yes, sir,' said the housekeeper in a louder
tone ; ' the pleeceman'll be here in a minute.'

Old George went heavily back into the
lumber-room. The criminal was in a condition
of abject terror, boo-hoping on the floor. Her
employer, disregarding her, passed once more
to the wardrobe.

'Is there anything' else you've hid here,
you wicked gell? he demanded, poking about
in the darker corners. ' Why, what's this P
Have you been a-crying' to steal a coat o' mine ? '
The garment he had in his hand Twas none of
his, as the glance of a moment told him. It
was old and mildewed, and almost rotten in
places, and it felt moist in his hand. A certain
musty smell with which his nostrils had been
acquainted ever since his entry to the room,
seemed now to be chiefly traceable to this
shabby and decayed old coat.

The blubbering little culprit was forgotten.

George lead heard the manner of his sister-in-law's
death, and had been told of her last
words.

It was Joseph's Coat.

He held the coat in his hand, and knew it
almost at a glance. He walked into his own
room with it, threw it into a chair, and stood
staring at it for a full minute. There were few
men less likely be affected by the sight of any
worthless relic such as this, but possibly it hit
him as it did because it was such a trifle, and
because he had found it after such a lapse of
years. A greater thing arising sooner might
have passed him by.

It's made me feel moist all o'er,' said he,
rubbing the palm of the hand in which he had
carried it against his own coat, to get rid of
the feel of the discovered garment. ' Eh
dear ! ' And he stared at the coat, and went
off ito reverie. ' I reckon,' he said after a
time, ' as he's been dead these 'ears and 'ears.
It feels as if he had been.'

He seemed reluctant to touch the coat
again, for he put his hand out towards it once

X 2

or twice, and drew it back. But laying hold
of it at last, he took a step to the door, as if
intending to return it to the place from which
he had taken it, but as he did so he stopped
short, dropped the garment upon the table,
and felt a part of it with his hand.

Their's something' i' the lining,' he said
slowly. ' A bit o' paper o' some sort.' The
lining was so old and rotten that he tore it
open easily with his fingers, and there, sure
enough, was a scrap of paper, George put
on his glasses and looked at it. No change in
face or attitude gave notice of the shock it
brought him to read the little document he
held. Yet it was nothing less than a copy of
the certified' of marriage between Joseph
Bushell, bac lor, and Dinah Banks, spinster.

Then, Dinah's story of the marriage had
not been a lie, after all ! Errant Joe had left
a rightful heir behind him !

The first conscious and distinct feeling he
had was one of relief that this discovery had
not been made before George had proved himself
unworthy. It is always pleasant to

escape from being a scoundrel than to be one,
and now old George was armed in honesty for
two years at least. For two years he could be
honest and yet hold the money. Any question
of becoming c?i6'honest and still holding the
money might reasonably be deferred until the
time came.

For two years he could be honest and yet
hold the money. And yet he began to doubt
that postulate. The money had never belonged
to young George as yet, but it undoubtedly
did belong now, and had belonged, ever
since old Joe's death, to Dinah, young Joe's
wedded wife. Well, there was some comfort
there. She had voluntarily rest aed it all this
time, and had, indeed, when le sued for
mercy for her son, expressly disowned all
desire to claim it.

Her don't want it,' mused old George.
Said so with her own hips. It don't belong to
him not till her's dead, an' if it belonged to
him now he's a felon.' He could argue well
on the side of justice, for he went on — ' An' if
he signed his own name, he didn't know it, an'

it was a felonious intention. I've heard that
on the bench many a time. What's to be
looked at is the intention. It never was i' my
mind for a minute to swindle anybody. I gave
a hunted pound to my young nevevv Joseph
as I've never seen, again from that day to this.
If he'd ha' come again, an' ha' took everything',
could I ha' said to him, " Joseph, you owe mea
hunted pound " ? Now, could I ? Could I
ha' been that mean as to ha' said it ? '

He felt magnanimously disdainful at the
thought.

Her must ha' been an uncommon foolish
sort o' woman to ha' laid out of her money all
these 'ears for want of a scrap like this,' said
the considerate George with the certificate held
between his plump thumb and finger. ' But
sence her has laid out of it, an' — why — I'll '

He did not complete the sentence, but he
took the poker in his disengaged hand, hollowed
out the fire, put the certificate gently into the
hollow, and beat down the glowing coals upon
it. As he did so, his brother's latest action
came into his mind. Not that the burning of

the will had made any difference in his position,
or could have done, any more than now the
destruction of the marriage certificate made ;
but the two things somehow associated themselves
together. The burning of the will had
heralded in a tenancy of five-ands twenty years :
the destruction of the certificate might, for
anything he could tell, be as good an omen.

Whilst he still stood idly beating at the
coals with the poker, a tap came to the door.

Come in ! ' cried he, and the housekeeper
entered.

What am I to do along o' Jane, master ? '
she inquired.

Mx. Bush ell had forgotten the peccant
maid, but a flush of virtuous heat touched him
at the mention of her.

Mek the baggage pack her things up and
be off at once,' he answered. 'I'll have no
roguery i' this house, if I can help it.'

Her s a-crying' fit to split, master,' said the
housekeeper. ' Her swears her mother set heron
to it, and says he'll never do it again. I
can allays keep a look on her.'

Send her off,' said George.

Her's afraid to go hum the housekeeper
pleaded. 'Best let her stop, master. Her
comes cheaper than a bigger gell would, an' I'll
keep a look on her.'

There was a consideration there which
touched Old George. Give him the benefit of
the doubt, and say it was pity.

I'll tek a day or two to think it over,' he
responded, and the housekeeper was about to
retire, when she saw the decayed and mildewed
old coat lying on the table.

Why, master,' she said, advancing towards
it, ' whatever do you mean by keeping' a rag
like that i' the parlour, amain' a litter ? '

'Leave it alone,' cried George. ' I want it.'
He was never unwilling to show a softer side
to his nature, when he could do so inexpensive.
' That garment,' he proceeded, ' is th'
ony one thing as is left in the wull wide
world of a poor never of mine. My eldest
brother's ony son he was, an' that's his coat I
just found. I'll keep it'

Why, that'd be young Mister Joseph as

run away from hum when I was a gell,' said
the housekeeper. ' More than twenty 'ear ago.*

Five-an'-twenty,' said old George. * Yes :
I'll keep it. You go an' frighten that little
trollop's life out. Tell her I'll ha' no mercy on
her next time if ever her does such a thing
again. I'll ha' nobody but upright folks i' my
house, Mrs. Bullus.'

The housekeeper retired, and having
soothed Jane with promises of a public hanging
in case of any renewal of her peccadilloes, she
mused upon her master.

He's hard to get on wi,' she concluded,
'but I think he's main true at bottom. An'
anyhow he does abhor a thief, an' so do I.'

End OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

I.O>-r)OX : Printed BY

SPOTTISWOO^E Ani CO XE'V-STREET Squab

AND PAULIAJIEXT Street

FENWICK'S

©irt3ulatiag Library

fin Connection with Muche's).

%exxn^ of §ttB!3criptton,

PAYABLE IN ADVANCE, AND COMMENCING AT ANY DATE

Two Vols. Three Vols. Five Vols.

d. £ s. d. £ s. d



Twelve Months
Six Months
Three Months
One Month
One Week










1 7





2 2





Single Subscription, 10/6 per Annum.

Six Months, 6/-

(This Subscription does not include the Nearest Books
until the first demand has subsided).

SINGLE VOLUMES LENT TO READ

AT ONE PENNY PER DAY.

►^ 108, WESTERN ROAD »

(Near Norfolk Square),

B 12, 1 a- H T O N- .

%rz!»m3iM

^i'^.i^d'y^

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/josephscoat02murr

VOL. II.

A NEW NOVEL BY OUIDA. 3 vols.

crown 8vo.

GOD AND THE MAN. By Robert

Buchanan, Author of * The Shadow of the Sword ' &c.
3 vols, crown 8vo.

THE COMET OF A SEASON. By ,
M.P., Author of ' Miss Misanthrope ' &c.
3 vols, crown 8vo.

PRINCE SARONI's WIFE, and other Stories.
By Julian Hawthorne. 3 vols, crown Boa

HEART'S PROBLEM. By Charles

Gibbon, Author of ' Robin Gray ' &c. 2 vols, crown Bvo.

THE BRIDE'S PASS. By Sarah Tatler.

2 vols, crown Bvo.

SOMETHING IN THE CITY. By George

Augustus Sala. 3 vols, crown Bvo.

CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

BY

DAVID CHRISTIE MURRAY

AUTHOR OF A LIKES ATONEMENT ETC.

IVitk TWELVE ILLUSTRATIONS by FRED. BARNARD
IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. II.

bonbon
CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY

All rights reserved

S?OTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

Illustrations TO VOL. II.

He made at IHB UNDETECTED SWINDLER AB

IF TO EMBRACE HIS LEGS ' . . . . Fronth-ijnece
'The two were gliding into talk' . . to face p. IbO
It's a PACK o' lies ! ' „ 224

CHAPTER Xiy.

If Master George Banks had known everything,
he might have held himself from that
disgusted cry against the treason of his sweetheart.
It was that cry which sealed his
mother's lips and kept the simple case of
forgery from becoming in its way a cause
celery. It is somewhat curious to reflect on
what would have happened had Dinah declared
her secret in open court. For I have not the
slightest doubt that if George had heard the
story, he would have struck out for this newark
of refuge, and would have sworn through
thick and thin that he had been aware of his
own identity all along. I was telling George's

VOL. II. B

story over a pipe to a distinguished novelist, a
friend of mine, last Saturday at a little convivial
gathering, and the distinguished novelist — who
is also a barrister — was a little puzzled at first
sight to say what might have become of the
prisoner had this revelation been made. He
seemed firmly of opinion, however, that the
onus would have lain upon old George, and
that he would have found it very difficult indeed
to prove that his grand-nephew had not
known the truth. In any case, it would have
altered the face of things. If my opinion is of
any value on a point which is not altogether
technical, I venture to offer it. Young George
would still have been committed to take his
trial at the assizes. Old George would have
been bound over to appear against him. Bail
would have been found for the criminal, a
compromise about the fortune would have been
arrived at, the old man would have forfeited
his recognisance, and the younger scoundrel
would have been shipped abroad somewhere
with at least an ample supply of money in his
pouch.

And all this would have come to a man
who had already consented to be a cur, if he
had only refrained from going still lower in
creation's scale, and growing downwards into
the similitude of a snake.

But when he cried out that Ethel also was
in the lie against him, even his mother who
had loved him so wiped him clean out of her
heart, and left him to his fate. It was hard todo,
but it was yet more hard to have to do it.
For she loved him yet, her son — scamp and
hound as he had proved — still, he was bone of
her bone and flesh of her flesh, and he was
Joe's son, and she had borne him and had
gone in travail for him. There is but one
divine thing in the world, and it is motherhood
and the motherly nature, for they are one.

So he went on his way, cur-like enough,
and left hearts behind him to bleed and suffer
after the manner of his tribe.

Ethel, you will remember, fell into Dinah's
arms at that cruel charge her lover brought
against her. But she heard the words, and
they came to mind again afterwards. 'The

B 2

child I bore ! ' groaned poor Dinah as she rose,
and Ethel's mind, too staggered and stunned
to heed them at the time, recalled them later
on.

Dinah was middle-aged, and had suffered
a great deal already. She did not faint, having
still somebody left to endure for, but she put
Ethel into a four-wheeled hackney coach and
saw her home. For Mrs. Donne had been so
enraged at the whole thing that she refused to
accompany her daughter on that terrible journey,
or to have any part or lot in the matter.
It is the way of women to show this curious
injustice sometimes, by way of set-off to the
amazing injustice which they often do themselves.
The mother did not, as you may fancy,
offer any very friendly welcome to the sister of
the man who had so shamefully wrecked her
household peace, and had left the first blot
upon the house she had ever heard of amongst
all its homely legends. To have had stolen
money in the house and in her daughter's
hands ! You may easily believe it to have
been very bitter to the yeoman's widow, who

was honest, as all her forbears had been, to the
backbone.

'We brought shame an' sorrow to this
house,' said Dinah sadly, when Ethel was put
to bed and she was ready to go away again.
But you won't forbid me to come and see her
tomorrow, will you ? '

There was something in Dinah's face
which repressed the tart answer on Mrs.
Donne's tongue.

You're i' trouble as much as we be, my
dear,' she answered — ' worse trouble than we
be — an' I'm sorry for you i' my heart. Come,
an' welcome.'

At this Dinah broke into tears, the first she
had shed that heavy day.

The shame ain't your, my poor dear
creature,' said the yeoman's widow, ' not more
than it's our. But I doubt me an' my poor
gell '11 be able to live here longer. An' I did
hope to lay my bones i' Quarrymoor churchyard
along of our's.'

Our ' — ' ours ' — hers — was the last John
Audley Donne, the latest of a long and honourable

race: and she also must needs weep a
little to think that she and he might lie wide
apart.

Oh,' said Dinah, ' if you go away, let me
come wi' you I No,' she said a second later,
through her tears, ' I should keep your trouble
an' your shame i' your minds, an' Tm best
away. But if you'll let me, I'll look in tomorrow,
an' see how she is, poor thing.'

It's a sad house to ask anybody to come
to,' said Ethel's mother. 'But come if you
wil, an' welcome. How does your father bear
it?'

'It's broke his heart,' answered Dinah.
He'll never hold his head up any more.'

If it seem strange that Mrs. Donne took
George's guilt for granted so early, you may
remember that she took her cue from his sister,
as she and the rest of the world supposed
Dinah to be. And Dinah had always the
affair of the cash-box in her mind, and that left
everything without need of proof.

The two women parted with a kiss.

Your's a worse trouble than our,' said

the yeoman's widow. ' God help you to bear
it!'

God bless you ! ' answered Dinah, and so
went her way. The Saracen's doors were
closed, the Saracen's affairs were wound up,
within a week of the assize trial. Daniel held
his head low for very shame, but on the aged
a blow of this kind sometimes falls with comparative
lightness. It is not experience alone
which enables age to bear its troubles easily.
The old beat has gone out of the pulse, the
heart is dulled to pain. Daniel none the less
would get away from the scene of this disgrace,
and to him also it was a grief to lay his bones
among strangers. But he could no longer
endure to live where everybody had known
him, and where an honest name had been his
pride and boast so long.

Mrs. Donne's lawyer had news for her when
she consulted him about the advisability of
parting with the farm.

I can find you a tenant in a week,' he
answered her. ' But unless I'm mistaken, it
won't be a farm much longer.'

!Not a farm ! ' cried Mrs. Donne. ' Why
not? I couldn't bear to think of its been'
built over.'

Well, you know, that's as you like, of
course, but I dare say you have heard that
coal has just been proved on the Hilly Piece,
and that's as good as proving it at Quarrymoor,
Mrs. Donne. And, in point of fact, the land '11
be worth five or six times what it was directly
the new pits get well to work. Went it out by
all means, since you want to, but keep it in
your own hands for a Httle time at least. If
I'm not very much mistaken, there's a big
fortune underneath, a bigger fortune than all
the Donnes ever got out of the surface — long
as they farmed it ! '

Do you know of anybody as '11 take it ? '
asked Mrs. Donne.

'Well, I'm not certain,' said the man of
business, 'but Sir Sydney Cheston has got it
into his head that he'd like to try his hand at
farming, and he has commissioned me to lookout
for a farm for him. I shall make an offer
of Quarry moor, if you're agreeable.'

Oil dear, yes said Mrs. Donne ; ' I'm agreeable.
And it'll be nicer to have a gentleman
as won't mind laying a bit out on the land.'

He'll be a good tenant,' said the lawyer.
Old Sir Sydney left him wonderfully well-to-do,
all things considered, and it's been a fortune
to him to find coal on the Staffordshire
property, of course. He can afford to spend
a thousand or two on hii^h farming if he wants
to.'

An' you think there's coal under Quarry-moor
? ' inquired Mrs. Donne.
: 'I know there is,' the lawyer answered ;
as well as if I'd been there. Hold it for a
year or two, Mrs. Donne, and there's a big
fortune in it.'

This was news indeed, and now Ethel was
really an heiress. It was surprising to see how
poor young George was buffeted by the wings
of the unattainable. He had this last blow yet
to feel, but another, almost as severe, had
already fallen.

It was four o'clock on the afternoon of his
trial, and he was under the hands of a barber

who wore a belt and carried a bunch of keys
at it. Another man, who also wore a belt
with a bunch of keys at it, stood by the while.

What's the news ? ' asked the barber, as
George's well groomed-locks fell beneath his
shears.

Well,' said the other ; ' the neWs is, for
one thing, as you owe me two and a tanner.'

Oh,' said the barber-warder, suspending
the action of the shears, ' and what might that
be for?'

'I see a telegram message half an hour
ago,' said the idle warder. ' Erebus is in first,
my boy.'

• ' Well, I'm blowed ! ' responded the barber,
pausing to look at his companion before he fee
to work again. ' I'd ha' bet my shirt again'
him.'

Well, he's won, whatever you'd ha' bet,'
said the idle warder with a little laugh.
You'll see it for you-self in the morning
papers.'

Now, this was cruel for George. What
right has a felon to anything ? And yet, he

had fairly won the money wliicli would have
saved hmi, and his calculations had been sound
after all, but for that one abominable accident
which had tripped him up and maimed him forever
and for ever. When the prison chaplain
talked to George about the enormity of his
offence, he found him impenitent and stubborn
; until the young man, though more than
half by accident, adopted a ^viser method, and
assumed a virtue though he had it not, inconsideration
of the chaplain's influence.

Of course, neither Mrs. Donne nor Ethel
were at this time much in the mood to enjoy
an accession of fortune, immediate or remote.
They were driven from home by shame, and
had little care to think about monetary prosperities.
Old Daniel was driven away also ;
and four people, who had seemed rooted to
the soil they were born on, went away together
and took one and the same goal. Trouble had
brought Dinah and Ethel close together, and
had made them fast friends.

You're sure, my dear,' said Dinah, ' that
I shan't be a trouble to you if I come to hive

anywhere near you? I shall mind you of it
every time you look at me.'

I should like you to be with me,' Ethel
answered steadily and gently. ' Let us go
together, and never say a word about it anymore.'


And so the ugly thing was buried ; but
they thought about it, though they both kept
silence. Daniel was willing to go anywhere, so
long as he was but led out of the sight of eyes
in whose gaze he had been familiar.

'I've never been a don at travelling,' said
Daniel, ' an I'm a bit gathered-like ; ' he
meant, confused and mentally harassed. ' An'
it feels cold out o' doors. Mayhap I've growed
a bit nash wi' sitting' so much at the fireside.
But I'm willing' to goo annywheer, Dinah, my
gell, to be away from the Saracen. I never
thought to part wi' him till I come downstairs
toes foremost. But nobody knows that'll
happen. Nobody knows that'll happen.'

The old fellow was quite broken, and sat
dull-eyed with his hands on his thin knees. He
looked about him on the journey, with childlike

curiosity, and made no observation but one.
This was drawn from him when, after a distance
of thirty miles had been travelled by rail,
he saw the familiar skeleton frame above a
coal-mine.

It's been fields for ever so long,' said
Daniel, ' and now we'd a-getting' among the
coal again.'

But before he was settled in his new home
he had to spend a day or two at the local hotel,
a little countryfied house with a bowling-green
behind it. He sat there in the snuggery most
of his time beside the fire, and once or twice
gave orders to which nobody attended,
evidently imagining himself back at the
Saracen.

'They'd gone an' changed the shelves
an' the bottles, Dinah,' he complained ; ' an' in-stand
o' the clock been' sheer it used to be,
they'd stuck it up at my back. It nigh on
breaks a man's neck to look an' see what time
it is.'

'Never mind, dear,' said Dinah, reading
these signs ; ' we'll have everything right by

an' by. An' then you'll be comfortable again,
won't you ? '

'You bide wi' me, my gell,' answered
Daniel, ' an' you'll be all right. Eh ? '

Oh, yes,' said Dinah soothingly, thinking
that the old man wandered. But he had something
on his mind, though it was perhaps the
last thing in the Avorld that Dinah was likely
to think of. The thing was on his mind, and
yet was somehow not to be got at until on the
second day, after sitting dull-eyed and silent
for two or three hours, he suddenly arose and
called loudly for Jane and Mary. Jane and
Mary, late maids at the Saracen, were miles
away, but one of the young women of the
house answered his call. He peered at her
with a glance of no recognition at first, but ina
while he grasped his own purpose, and hooking
her towards him with a forefinger, he asked :
Their's a lawyer i' the town, ain't their ? '
Yes, sir,' said the girl ; ' several.'
Very well,' said Daniel ; ' you send for
one of 'em, d'ye hear. An' their's a shilling'
for you. Send a lad as can run sharp, and let

him fatcli the best lawyer T the plans.' The
girl took the shilling, but stood looking at him
as if uncertain to obey. 'Don't you be afeard
o' me,' Daniel went on, seating himself by the
fire once more. ' I want a lawyer. I ain't all
I used to be, but I feel well an' bright to-day,
an' I've got a lot o* business to do. Patch
a lawyer, an' let me do it while their's time.'

Very well, sir,' said the girl ; and going
out, she despatched the messenger, a stable-boy,
who, being impressed with a sense that the
business was lu-gent, ran as if for a midwife,
and alarmed a respectable elderly solicitor so
much that he ran after the boy all the way
back to the inn, to the great wonderment of
the inhabitants, who had never seen him run
for forty years past.

The landlord was in the snuggery, mounting
guard as it were over Daniel, when the
solicitor arrived.

Be you a lawyer ? ' asked Daniel.

Yes, sir, I am,' returned the newcomer
somewhat out of breath with his exertions.

You can draw up a will all right ? Eh ? '

Certainly'

So as their can't be no manner o' doubt
about it ? '

Certainly,' said the solicitor — though,
being a man of some experience, he saw the
boldness of the assertion.

Then I, Dan'l Banks, late o' the parish o'
Bramwich, do give an' bequeath every thin' of
which I die possessed to my daughter Dinah.'

'You wish me to draw up a will to that
effect ? '

Course I do,' returned Daniel petulantly.
' What else did I send for you for ? '

'Do you wish me to specify the properties?'
asked the solicitor.

Does it matter ? ' asked Daniel. ' Can't I
will 'em in a lump ? '

If you wish to do so, certainly.'

Very well, then,' answered Daniel, ' put
'em in a lump. All to my daughter Dinah.
An' look sharp about it, mister, for I'm a-get-
tin' on i' years, an' I dort feel much like
wearing', I can tell you.'

The solicitor asked the necessary questions,

took the necessary notes, and went this way.
Next morning lie brought the will, and read it
over to the old man, who signed it. The landlord
and the solicitor's clerk also signed
it, Daniel paid the bill, and the thing was
over.

'Now, you wouldn't ha' thought,' said
Daniel, addressing the landlord, ' as an ode
mon like me, as has got maybe only a day or
two to last, ud be such a Gaby as to wait till
now afore mein' his will, would you ? '

Well,' said the landlord, who was of a
curious turn, 'that depends on what you've
got to leave, you know.'

So it does, mate,' said Daniel, who saw
his drift, and was equal to him. ' So it does.'
But he could not resist the desire to say that
Dinah would be pretty warm when he was gone
pretty warm. Warmer than most, he added,
warming with the theme. And indeed Daniel
had a good deal of property down in the old
country in one form or another, and a balance
at the bank, since the sale of the Saracen, the
figures of which might have startled some people.

VOL II. c

Of course the folk of a small country town
like Wrethedale had their nine-days' wonder
about the immigrants and strangers who had
settled in their midst. Beyond the fact that
they seemed fairly well-to-do plain people,
little was learned of them for a time. The
new settlers paid their Away and went to church,
and in a few weeks they were accepted as a fact,
and the wonder at them faded out, as it had a
right to do. As the weather grew finer and
warmer, Dinah used to tempt her father out
for a walk now and again, and the change of
air and scene and life began to do the old man
as much good as anything could hope to do at
his time of life. There had been nothing in
George's case to carry it beyond the sphere of
the local papers, and here in this western town,
a hundred miles as the crow flies from the
scene of his crime, they felt safe from gossip
and from any remembrance or knowledge of
the undeserved shame which had fallen upon
them.

Wrethedale was so much out of the general
way was such an old, settled, sober-sided sort

of place, that it found a simple-minded wonder
in things which would never have been noticed
in a commonly-active place of its own size. It
boasted three solicitors already, two of whom
played cricket in the summer and rode to
hounds in winter, and did and had no other
earthly business. It was therefore certainly
a little curious that in the space of some three
months after the arrival of the two new households
a fourth solicitor, unknown to anybody
in the neighbourhood, should suddenly blossom
out and burgeon in the High Street with all
the glory of new wire blinds, a brass plate, and
a lettered bell-pull. It struck Dinah as being
curious that the name on the brass plate was
John Keen. She had known a John Keen,
solicitor and mine-surveyor, at home — her
son's friend, and the man she liked best
amongst all the acquaintances George had
made. Some of them, perhaps most of them,
had been a little less than equivocal. Dinah
knew nothing of the verses against the Eeverend
Jabez Wallier, and had a high opinion of one
John Keen who was a solicitor. She was just

c2

solemnly wondering whether the John of
Wrethedale had anything to do with the John
of old days, when she met the John of old days
plump in the market-place, and he raised his
hat and held out his hand to her.

'Why, Miss Banks,' said John with an
indefinable air of guilt upon him, ' this is a
surprise indeed ! '

I should never ha' thought of seeing you
here,' said simple Dinah. ' Is that your name
up in the High Street, Mr. Keen ? '

Yes,' said John, still looking a little guilty,
that's my name. Are you staying here, Miss
Banks, in Wrethedale ? '

Yes,' said Dinah. ' Father an me are
living here.'

Dear me ! ' said John, absolutely blushing
at this third pretence, and looking guiltier than
ever. 'That is singular. I have come to
settle down here professionally.'

Indeed ! ' said Dinah ; ' I noticed the name
as I came by.' She was casting about in her
mind what to say or do. The wound was still
open. Who could expect such a grief as she

had suffered to heal in three months' time, or,
for the matter of that, in three years John was
in the way, and yet she liked him, and was not
sorry to see an old face, being a woman of
strong local affections. She was naturally
valorous, and was disposed to face this situation.
' Will you take me to your office, Mr.
Keen ? ' she said suddenly. ' I want to speak
to you.'

Certainly,' said John ; and led the way,
wondering what Dinah's topic could be.

I'm glad to see a face I used to know,'
said Dinah, once within the office. 'But you
can't fail to know why father an' me came
here, Mr. Keen, and '

Miss Banks,' said John, ' never say a word
upon that question. I have more right to
grieve for you than you are likely to be able
to guess. But I know nothing of it now. If
you will allow me, I will wipe it out of my
mind here and now. From this minute forward
I have forgotten all about it.'

Thank you,' said Dinah tremulously. Her
errand was already fulfilled, and they talked

with some constraint on either side until she
rose to go.

'I hope said John with another blush,
which in Dinah's motherly eyes was not unbecoming,
' that you will let me come and see
you now and then.'

Dinah would be glad to see him, so she
said, at any time. She read him now like a
book. And she waited for him to ask about
Ethel ; but John, who was under the impression
that he was playing a difficult game with
great wariness, and believed himself as inscrutable
as the Sphinx, repressed his longings, and
did not name her once. This silence forced
Dinah's hand. She was only a woman after
all.

^ I suppose you know that Miss Donne is
living here, as well ? ' she asked.

I have heard as much,' said John with
infinite dryness. 'I hope to be able to pay
her my respects as an — old acquaintance in a
day or two.' Dinah's mild eyes seemed to him
to pierce this transparent humbug through and
through, as they did, but he could not yet

wound lier by saying one word about his own
designs.

'Are business prospects good here, Mr.
Keen ? ' asked Dinah.

Well, that's rather hard to determine just
at first,' said John courageously. ' What practice
there is is likely to be of a good sort, I
should say. They're county people and that
sort of thing, you know. Miss Banks, in this
neighbourhood. And one may as well get
the best sort of practice as the worst, you
know.'

Dinah said, ' Oh yes, of course,' to this, but
she regarded John so seriously that he continued
as if in self-defence :

I can afford to wait for a year or two, and
I don't know that it matters much if I don't
practise at all, except that I don't want to lead
an idle life. And whatever there is to be done
here will be of the best class, even if there's
very little of it. Conveyancing,' said John,
guiltily once more, beginning to droop beneath
Dinah's gaze, ' is the sort of work I should
prefer.'

Dinah said, ' Oh yes, of course,' again, and
having wished him well, she shook hands and
they parted. It was not, perhaps, altogether a
strange thing that she cried when she got home,
or that she knelt beside her bed long that afternoon
in the quiet of her own chamber, for she
saw that what had brought this honest young
fellow here was the hope of Ethel, or at
worst the determination to try for her ; and
her own child had once won Ethel, and might
have worn her worthily, and have been blessed
in her love, and she in his, if he had not been —
Ah me ! if he had not been a villain.

I say again — I do not believe that there is
any criminally-minded cur in the whole world
who would not forego his crime if he could but
see the brood which it is sure to rear.

And oh ! young Joe of five-and-twenty
years since, young Joe no longer by this time,
if anywhere extant, but middle-aged, and verging
on the fifties and a little grey, if you could
know the grief your folly planted, it would bea
heavy thing to bear. A little courage, errant
Joe, a little honour, and the tragedy which

obscured so many lives had been averted. Is
it of any use to point a moral nowadays ? Do
others' follies teach us ? — or others' wisdom ?
Or is even — as the poet tells us — our own
experience of much sterling worth ?

One of two things very soon became
evident to John Keen, and he had little heart
to choose between them, though heart enough
to face them ten times over. But either his
move in coming to Wrethedale and setting up
there had been made too soon, or it was a false
move altogether. Ethel knew why he came —
what woman would not ? — and she was in no
mind to be comforted for the loss of her own
wounded self-respect or the loss of her rascally
lover. She felt and thought indignantly and
with many a throb of that deep wound she
carried, that her plighted husband was a felon,
and at that hoi* in prison, and it was cruel to
her way of thinking, and dishonouring to her,
to suppose that she would ever look at another
man again. She had loved, and though she
had loved a scoundrel, she had loved him none
the less, until she knew him as he was. And

she had no possibilities of affection within her
for any new creature of the male species. She
hated and despised men at this period of her
Hfe with a great and majestic heartiness. Men
were vicious and mean and cowardly. What
the sacred bard said in his haste, Miss Donne
confirmed at leisure. It was illogical, but
shall we cry out against a nature so perverted ?
Are you logical when any dear and trusted
friend has newly betrayed you ? I am not. I
have declaimed against the pretended affection
of woman in my time, pretty eloquently as I
have fancied. Let the wounded heart speak
for a moment as its agonies prompt it. Natures
less fine than hers have been soured for life by
lesser sorrows, and if I am not mistaken in her,
she will grow back slowly to more than her
first ripeness of sweet nature, and, probably
enough, be happy wife and mother before we
see her for the last time, with all these pains
buried, though not forgotten.

But what have we to do with prophecy ?
Let us get back to the story.

I'm not going to be beaten,' said John

resolutely, when he had failed a dozen times at
least in his efforts to meet Ethel. 'I came
here in the hope that I should be able to make
her a little bit happier, or, at all events, a little
bit less miserable, poor little darling.' I can
fancy what Ethel's scorn would have been
could she have heard that phrase of affectionate
commiseration from John's lips. ' I'll do it,
somehow. What a chuckleheaded ass I am !
Why, the poor girl hasn't even got 'an organ to
play on Sundays. Here ! ' quoth John, rising
pipe in mouth and clawing on his hat and coat,
*ril see about that at once, anyhow.'

He saw about it to such effect that in
less than a week he had matured a plan and
found a way to execute it. At Shareham
Church, four miles from Wrethedale, there
actually was an organ with nobody to play
upon it since the rector's daughter had got
married. But to ask Ethel to travel four miles
twice every Sunday through the year — hail,
rain, or shine — would have been preposterous.
The organist at St. Stephen the Martyr at
Wrethedale was an arrant duffer, and John,

who had an ear for music, was wroth at him
every Sunday, though he himself went to
church for no loftier object than to look when
he could at Miss Donne. So John scraped
acquaintance with the rector at Shareham,
expressed himself as being deeply interested
in church music, got leave to try the organ,
of which instrument he knew next to nothing,
enthusiastically pronounced upon it, and
offered at once to subscribe fifteen pounds per
annum towards the expenses of a salaried
organist. The rector jumped at the offer, and
John almost swore him to secresy, using such
vehemence in his request that the rector
thought him a sort of bashful saint. Then
the young pretender incited the rector to offer
the berth to the arrant duffer who tortured the
churchgoers at St. Stephen's, and the rector
did it, setting another ^\e to John's fifteen and
making the pay twenty pounds a year. The
arrant duffer also jumped, and went about
inflated, thinking himself a pearl amongst
organists. Next, the secret schemer told the
vicar of St. Stephen's that he had a very angel

of an organist in his congregation, and told
Dinah also that the post of organist was vacant,
and indeed there was no one left to play at all.
So Ethel got one of the smaller longings of her
soul, and the congregation within the Martyr's
walls were no longer martyred as of old.

At first, when John went to church after
completing this arrangement, he felt that he
had cheated himself. Ethel was no longer in
her old place to be furtively stared at. But he
got the better of this grief in a while, and many
a time the sound of the pealing organ poured
peace into his heart and sacred joy ; and to
Ethel — while she played it — there was no
longer any sorrow in the world, and she would
leave the church radiant, and her sabbaths at
least were filled with a tranquillity she had
never hoped to taste again.

It came to her ears after a while that all this
was John Keen's doing. Her pride prompted
her to surrender her joy rather than owe it to
him, but she had not the heart for this extreme
measure. She contented herself with snubbing
John, and he bore it with wonderful meekness.

CHAPTER XV.

The Saracen having fallen into new hands,
assumed a new aspect and a new title. The
real old Saracen, who for many a summer day
had looked on the sunshiny street with bilious
eyes, and on many a winter night had shrieked
and creaked complainingly against the stormy
weather, was taken down and relegated
to a lumber room, and ultimately chopped up
for firewood. For weeks the front of the
house was obscm-ed by scaffolding, and quite
a little army of men were at work about it.
Really it came out with plate-glass windows
and stuccoed front, with a great gilded sign
which expressed it as the Saracen and Railway
Hotel. Within, things were changed as much
as without, and Meshach and Aminadab and

the rest found it on its re-opening night no fit
home for them and their memories, and so
carried themselves elsewhere with a general
feeling of being uprooted.

Prosperous George Bushell, pausing before
the house one sunny morning, felt his heart lifted
at the sight. The Saracen and Railway Hotel
by Andrew Joyce was nothing to him, except
as a token of the removal of the Saracen by
Daniel Banks, and the consequent removal of
Daniel and his daughter. They had gone
away, having made no sign, and he was once
more safe in the possession of his fortune.
The heiress had left him in undisputed possession
of the field ; and although he could not
understand its why and wherefore, he appreciated
the fact. He could scarcely resist the
smile that strove to curve his features as he
looked at the transformed structure.

Hullo I Bushell ! ' cried a voice, and he
turned to face a middle-aged man sitting in a
neat dog-cart, between the shafts of which stood
a slashing-looking bay mare .The middle-aged
man was loud of voice, florid of complexion,

and cheery of aspect, and he wore an enormous
beard of chestnut colour, laced, but
only laced, with grey.

Good morning', Sir Sydney,' said old George
as he turned. ' Fine grown' morning' for the
crowds, isn't it ? '

George had no interest in farming, but Sir
Sydney Cheston had, having but recently taken
Quarrymoor Farm upon his hands, as ]mr.
Bushell knew.

'Splendid weather,' said the Baronet.
Going up to the court ? Shall I give you a
hft ? '

Why, thank you. Sir. Sydney,' said George
in his provincial slow drawl ; ' I don't mind
if I do ride. It's a goodish pace up their.'

So it is,' assented Sir Sydney ; and the old
fellow, moving as heavily and deliberately ashe
spoke, climbed into the dog cart, and took
his seat by the Baronet's side.

'Nobody ever expected to see me a-ridin'
alongside of a baronet,' he said to himself, as
the owner of the mare touched her lightly
with his whip and set her going.

Changes belied us, there,' said Cheston,
nodding his head backwards.

'All things change i' this world,' said
George. 'We've no abiding' city here.' His
wooden gravity was quite enough to beguile a
listener into the belief that he had at least
some thought of what he was talking about.

No, indeed ! ' shouted Cheston in his good-humoured
noisy voice. ' The first time I ever
saw the place was on the very day when your
nephew Joe — my old chum you knoAV, Bushell
knocked poor old Screed down and ran
away from home. Gad! he must have been
out of temper that day, for he knocked me
down too. I never told anybody of it before,
but it's a fact, by George ! '

'Ah, poor Joe-ziph,' said George, dividing
the word again into two equally balanced syllables,
and putting his company manner on
generally. 'It was a blow to his parents
which they didn't overset.'

'It wasn't a bad thing for you, Bushell,'
said the Baronet, laughing. But the laugh fell
into a sigh, half perhaps for his old chum Joe,

VOL. II. D

but certainly at least half for his own lost
youth. 'He was going out to the gold-diggings,
I remember. I was the last man to
shake hands with him in England, and I was
quite hard hit because I couldn't go with him.*
Was you, now ? ' asked George.
Gad, I was,' returned Cheston.
'Here's the High Street thought old
George; 'they can see as I'm a-ridin' along
with a baronet ; ' and he looked sulky, which
was his way of trying to look dignified.

More changes ! ' cried Cheston, pointing
with his whip. 'That was a private house,
and they're turning it into a shop. The place
is thriving.'

'Ah,' said George, who, in spite of his
business habits, had a true countryman's interest
in trifles. ' Young Keen the lawyer lived their.
Cheer's he moved to, I wonder ? '

Young Keen ! ' said the baronet ; ' why,
you don't half know the news, Bushell. He
left weeks ago. He's gone to live in the same
place with that poor little Miss Donne, and old
Banks and his daughter. It's quite a migration.

I think lie was a bit sweet on the young
lady. So was I : but I'm too old to think
about that sort of thing nowadays. You and I
have kept out of the trap pretty well, haven't
we, Bushell?'

'I don't know as that's any comfort, when
life's a-beginnin' to close in, Sir Sydney,' said
George. *And so,' he thought, 'young lawyer
Keen has followed old Banks and his gell,
has he?' He turned it over slowly in his
mind, and Cheston, for a wonder, was quiet fora
minute. ' Are they at all familiar like ? ' he
asked ; ' the Banks an' young lawyer Keen ? '

'Why, you know nothing of what's going
on in the town, Bushell,' said Cheston. ' That
young scoundrel I committed to Stafford for
you was young Keen's closest friend, and the
youngster used to go and smoke with Banks
twice or thrice a week, at one time. I believe,
if Banks's girl had been a year or two younger,
he'd have gone for her. Nice woman she was,
eh ? I always used to pull up at the Saracen
when I drove by, and get a hiss of beer from
pretty Dinah. Ah, Bushell, she teas a pretty

a 2

girl five-and-twenty years ago when she and
your poor nephew Joe were sweethearts.'

'Sweethearts, was they?' asked George.
Internally he anathematised his nephew Joe,
for he could scarcely help a little soreness at
this reiterated mention of him. J)id not 
years give time enough to get a
man buried and out of sight and done with ?

Sweethearts ! I should think they were.
It was about her he knocked me down, and it
was about her that he floored poor old Screed.
Screed wasn't a bad sort.'

'A godly person, Mr. Screed was,' said
George. ' A very godly person.'

Here we are ! ' said the Baronet, puling
up before the police station and leaping down.
'Take the trap to the Dudley, officer. Tell
'em to give the mare a good feed. Stop and
see it done, will you. By-the-by, Bushell, remind
me, when this licensing work's over, that
I have something to say to you about business.
That's why I pulled up for you ; but I've such
a head, I forgot all about it.'

George walked into the court with the

Baronet still talking genially and loudly at his
side, and partook of the great man's glory.
For Sir Sydney Cheston was the greatest swell
those parts could boast, and the old man, like
the rest of us, loved to sit in the high places
and be seen in good company. But all the
while, as he sat on the bench, he gave his vote
only as the better-conditioned of his neighbours
gave theirs, and thought about the news he
had heard. Young Keen — a lawyer — familiar
with Dinah, had gone to live in the same
parish to which she had retired. What was
that for? Was there anything in it? — anything
that threatened himself?

Young Keen had begun to defend the prisoner,
and had then suddenly resigned the case.

Was it law that young George had committed
forgery anyhow, and must in any case
suffer for it, and had Keen advised the mother
to be quiet until his term of imprisonment was
over ? Mr. George Bushell was a wooden man
and a man of considerable attainments in the
way of ignorance. He was a Justice of the
Peace, but there was nothing in that to prevent

the very commonest point in the law from
being a mystery to him. He was the fraudulent
owner of a great fortune, and that of itself
was enough to make him suspicious. Of
course, he had no fear of any punishment
beyond the loss of the fortune ; but would not
that be punishment enough ? It is not punishable
to commit an offence against the law when
the offence is utterly beyond detection, and the
certificate he had destroyed had been lost for
twenty-live years before he found and destroyed
it.

Why had young Keen followed Dinah
Banks ? ' I believe,' Sir Sydney had said, ' that
if Banks's girl had been a year or two younger,
he'd have gone for her.' That meant lawyer
Keen. George saw no reason why a man of
six-and-twenty should not marry a woman of
three and-f or ty if he set his mind that way ;
and if lawyer Keen knew of Dinah's claim, it
might be worth his while to overlook the difference
of a year or two and make a match
of it.

Always putting two and two together in this

clumsy and wandering way, but never by any
chance making four of them, Mr. Bushell contrived
to make himself signally uncomfortable.
That there was something in young Keen's
following of Dinah — something beyond mere
chance — seemed certain. Then he remembered
Cheston had said that Keen had been sweet on
Miss Donne. She was there also. Now, if
Keen courted Miss Donne — lovers tell each
other everything — Dinah and Miss Donne were
living alone in a townful of strangers — women
tell each other everything — if the lawyer got
hold of Dinah's story, he would know how
futile her fears had been, and would set her on
the track at once. Altogether, the mere fact
of John Keen having followed the two women
was full of peril for George's fortune ; and
somehow, in these late days, there had been a
sort of revival of the memory of errant Joe
which of itself left an uneasy sense of dread
and expectancy on the old man's mind.

He got at everything by slow and roundabout
mental processes ; and at last he reached
what seemed to him to be the real knot to be

untied in this case. What was he to do — in
brief — to keep young George out of the way
when his time had expired and he was released
from prison ? It was pretty evident that, if the
mother moved at all, it would be for her son's
sake, and not for her own.

There's some sham in it, I'm certain an'
sure,' he said to himself. ' The child must ha'
been born i' wedlock, but I reckon he came
afore his time. It's that as made her keep her
tongue betwixt her teeth all this time, an' now
if her does anything' at all, it'll be for the lad's
sake.'

There were elements in the case which
puzzled him, for he could neither comprehend
how plain simplicity could sit down to suffer,
nor how an honourable spirit could be so
wounded as to resolve on keeping silence
against itself rather than identify itself with
dishonour. But when once the central idea
had taken root in George's mind, it rose to
such proportions as to overshadow everything
else that grew there. He was as certain as he
well could be that Dinah was not likely to

move iu her own belial. and that if she
moved at all, it would be to endow that
scoundrel of a private secretary with a fortune
to which he had no claim except from the accident
of birth. If lawyer Keen got to know
the story — and that seemed only too probable
he would wait for young George and give
him the news in spite of Dinah's want of initiative.
Then, how to get at the released criminal
before anybody else could get at him ?

And across the stupid schemer's brain there
flashed a sudden jubilant ray.

The copy of the certificate was gone. It
might not be a matter of any great difficulty to
get rid of the original, and then to defy all
possible attempts against his property. A
happy thought, surely, and yet leading to all
manner of unpleasant complications. Leading
to dangers also. The ray seemed less jubilant.

The church at which Dinah and young Joe
had so long since been wed was famous in local
annals as the resort of runaway couples who
wished to be married. It was but a mile or
two from George's house, and he had known it

from babyhood. The parson who had officiated
at Dinah's wedding was dead, and the parish
clerk had gone the same way. The marriage
had been performed at Whitsuntide, at which
festive season in old days some fifty or sixty
unions were wont to be celebrated at Waston
Church, oftener than not with much disreputable
riot. Nobody would be likely to remember
any one marriage particularly at this time
of day, and the church certificate, as the old
schemer thought, was its last and only record.
Old George was not much of a novel-reader,
but he had read somewhere of a guilty lord
who had illegitimate his brother's children and
seized their estate simply by tearing out the
record of their father's marriage from the parish
register kept in an old church. He saw how
simple the process was, but he saw its dangers
also. He was a slow and clumsy thinker, but
he had that faculty of making dramatic pictures
in his own mind of which I have already spoken,
and he could never contemplate himself in the
act of tearing out the register of his nephew's
marriage without seeing a terrible vague hand

approach his shoulder. This terrible vague
hand affected him physically, and he used to getup
and rub the part it threatened, walking
about the while with a wry face, and hitching
his shoulder to get rid of the uncomfortable
feeling.

But needs must when the devil drives, and
George felt himself demon-driver. Under certain
conditions, life is not worth having ; and
the old man found the night and the day alike
a burden to him. He reproached himself for
cowardice over and over again, and at last, as
often happens, he went with no inward increase
of courage to the task. The guilty lord, he
remembered, had made a burglarious entrance
to the chmxh, in • The Secret of Glen Snassen,'
in the dead of night, while a tempestuous wind
shook at the casements and howled in the
vaults. He had scarcely pluck enough for
such an enterprise, and indeed burglary seemed
unnecessary. A public omnibus passed the
church every half-hour in the summer-time, and
one fine hot summer day he was set down at
an hotel a hundred yards from the porch.

He drank a glass of whisky to steady his nerves,
and then walked into the street and strolled by
the churchyard. The sexton was bobbing up
and down in a half-made grave, and George,
leaning his arms upon the mossy stones of the
wall, accosted him.

Are you sexton here ? '

The man answered in the affirmative.

Been here long ? Eh ? '

Seven 'ear come Christmas,' said the sexton.


Old George's head began to swim, and his
heart grew muffled on a sudden. A minute
passed before he spoke again, and the sexton
by that time was bobbing up and down in his
grave once more.

'I wanted to find out,' said the melodramatic,
when his voice and wits returned to him,
about a wedding as took place here five-and
twenty 'ear ago. There's a bit o' property depending'
on it.'

Yes, sir,' said the sexton, scenting fees and
pausing at his task. ' I can get the keys, sir,
if you'd like to look at the register.'

Very well,' said George pompously ; ' 111
pine you i' the cliurcli in five minutes

Very well, sir,' said the sexton ; and having
driven his spade into the clay, he took up
his cap and jacket, and swung leisurely off to
the vicarage. The melodramatic schemer also
sauntered away, his inexpressive countenance
showing nothing of his inward pains, though his
head was swimming again, and the curious
muffled feeling at the heart had returned. The
road led half-way round the churchyard, as he
knew, and then a by-way ran at the back, so
that the burial-place was islander, so to speak.
He walked leisurely until he reached the main
road again, and then, seeing the sexton in the
act of unlocking the church-door, he quickened
his pace a little, and felt such a tremor of dread
at the porch that he dodged suddenly into the
sacred building as though a bull had been behind
him. The sexton, who was already halfway
up the aisle, failed to notice this curious
entry, but George felt the necessity of steadying
himself, and made a resolute effort. The vague
terrible hand, backed by a presence yet more

vague and terrible, was behind Mm. What if
young Keen should come to look for the register
at that very hour and moment ? Ugh !
what a disagreeable fancy !

What date ? ' asked the sexton.

About '49 or '50,' said old George huskily.
He had known that the task would be a hard
one, but he found it harder than he feared.
Yet, his wooden face showed nothing.

What name, sir ? '

'John Smith an' Mary Ann Thomas,' said
the guilty one, speaking more huskily than before.
' Here, I'll look for it.'

He put on his gold-rimmed glasses, and
drawing a book towards him, tm-ned over the
leaves one by one. They had a faint odour
suggestive of long imprisonment from light and
air which reminded him of the discovery of
his nephew's coat. The sexton sat down at
the other side of the vestry-table, with his arms
upon it, and watched the search drowsily. The
day was hot, and the sexton nodded once or
twice, and, just as the old schemer had begun
to hope that he might fall asleep, caught himself

up with a great snatch, and became prematurely
wide-awake.

Dry work, eh, my man ? ' said George with
husky pomposity.

Yes, indeed, sir,' said the sexton.

The entries for 1849 were in one volume,
and those for the year following in another.
George had taken up the wrong volume, but
he plodded through it to the end, and with a
curious new tremor closed it and took up the
other.

A slow job, eh ? ' he said with a great
efibrt,

Yes, indeed, sir,' said the sexton, ' an' a
dry 'un too, sir, as you say.'

Yes,' said George, ' it's all that. Could
you get me a glass o' water ? An' maybe, after
all that digging', you wouldn't mind a glass o'
beer yourself — eh ? '

Thanked,' said the sexton, and old George,
still turning over the leaves, drew a shilling
from his pocket, and, without looking at the
man, pushed it across the table. Now, the
sexton was a fairly honest, dutiful sort of fellow,

and if the books had been old enough to have
included an entry made before the great Registration
Act came into being, he would probably
have found strength equal to his day, and would
have resisted his temptation. But he knew
well enough that every entry these dusty old
volumes held was snug and safe in Somerset
House, there to be seen on payment of a
shilling ; and he felt, therefore, that there was
no particular need to keep watch and ward
over any respectable old party who wished to
hunt out a certificate. And grave-digging on
a hot summer's day is a thirsty occupation,
and the sexton was dry. So he accepted the
shilling with thanks, and having poured out a
glass of rather stale water from the vicar's carafe,
he put on his list, and left ancient and uninstructed
melodrama to its work.

Old George, with a dreadful feverish haste,
raced through the leaves until he reached the
date he sought for. There was quite a glut of
marriages that day, and he turned over a score
of leaves before lie reached the document for
which he was running so much risk, and which

was, if he had only known it, so absolutely
useless. He had come prepared, and slipping
from his pocket a thin metal rule, and a specially
sharpened pen-knife, he set the rule under
the page, thrust it well up against the back of
the volume, and at a single stroke of the keen
blade severed the leaf. He folded it neatly,
though he shook aguishly all the while, and
put it in his pocket. Then he feigned to go on
reading the certificates, that he might look
natural when the sexton should return.

By-and-by he came, rubbing a hand across
his lips.

I can't find it,' said George, throwing himself
back a little, and wiping his forehead with
his handkerchief.

Is there any evidence as the parties was
married here, sir? 'asked the sexton, feeling
himself bound to show a little interest in consideration
of the tip.

It was allays took to be so,' said George.

An' it's quite sure as they was married in
'49 or '50?'

If they was married at all,' said George.

VOL. II. E

He was in a dreadful tremor inside, but he felt
bound to keep the pretence going and to depart
naturally.

Is there much depending' on it, sir ? ' asked
the sexton, beginning to lock up the books.

Two or three thousand,' said George,
growing easier as the despoiled volume went
out of sight.

You'll ha' to try Somerset House, sir,' the
man said, turning the key in the lock.

What for ? ' asked George.

Suffocate o' marriage,' said the sexton.
'All on 'em goes up to Somerset House, from
every parish church in the land, sir.'

George's head began to swim again, and
once more his heart felt muffled and stifled in
its beat.

Is all them,' he said stiffly and slowly, ' at
Somerset House ? — all them as I've been
lookin' at ? '

Yes, sir,' said the sexton, ' every one of

'em.

An ' can anybody see 'em ? '

Oh yes, sir, anybody. You'll ha' to pay a
shilling', sir, that's all. Same as here, sir.'

George, with shaky fingers, drew forth the
fee.

I suppose,' he said with trebled desperation,
' as you take great care of 'em here,
though, for all that ? '

Yes, sir,' replied the sexton, who was
leading the way down the aisle by this time,
swinging the keys in his hand. ' The law's
very strict, sir. I believe it's transportation for
life if anybody destroys a leaf.'

George gave a husky little groan.

LIBRARY

CHAPTER XVI.

History repeats itself. Here was old George
travelling in young George's footsteps, and going
clumsily about to commit a useless crime.

It is only on a stage that a scoundrel, finding
himself frustrated, can writhe and howland
shudder without attracting the attention
of the bystanders. Whatever emotions he experienced,
old George dared show nothing, and
he marched deaf and blind into the sunshine,
and walked straight on without knowing or
caring whither his footsteps led him. By-and-by
he began to clear a little, and then he went
into a meadow and cursed his day — not
eloquently, but with thoroughness. He had
always been a moral man on his own peculiar
lines, but he had naturally listened, more or
less unwillingly, to a good deal of bad language
in his time, and now he felt his knowledge

useful, and employed it to the full. If any
stranger could have come suddenly upon this
respectable, solid-looking old man, in spotless
black broadcloth, hat of broadest brim, snow-white
linen, and respectable grey whiskers, and
could have heard his language, it might have
startled him. But before old George had gone
thrice through his stock of phrases — he was
literally without invention — his head began to
whirl, and his eyes saw nothing but a silvery
mist with splashes in it of alternate ink and
fire. More than anything else could have done
his fear sobered him. He had been taking
God's name in vain, horribly, and now perhaps
he was going to die. More than once he had
heard of sudden judgments.

He crept back into the road again and
walked towards the town, a little bent and
blanched. He was getting on in years, and
these violent emotional exercises break an old
man a good deal. A sturdy walker who had
kept himself well in exercise all his life long,
ke was yet right glad of the passing omnibus,
for somehow his legs seemed to-day to fail

him, and his feet were heavy on the dusty road.
The second certificate was burned that night as
the first had been, though he felt no sense of
triumph as he burned it, but only one of aching
terror and remorseful rage.

Sitting by his lonely fireside-^-for even in
summer a fire is a necessity in the coal countries
she drank pretty freely, and at last, with his
pipe in his hands and his feet on the fender, he
fell asleep. And as he slept he dreamed
a curious dream. He had gone forward intime,
and it was the day when George Banks's
term of imprisonment should expire. The
dreamer was somehow invisible in a grey
dream-mist, but in the same grey mist he saw
a massive door, which he knew for the entrance
to a prison, and about it were Ethel Donne,
and Dinah, and young lawyer Keen. He knew,
as people do in dreams, what brought them all
there. They were waiting for the outgoing
of the prisoner, and the prisoner was to come
and claim his own. Old George, powerless
and tongue-tied, waited in an agony for the
door to open. After a long time it began to

move, slowly, slowly, slowly, and when at last
it stood wide, he knew, with an incredible revulsion
of ease and joy, that the prisoner was
lost, and that nobody in the prison had an idea
of his whereabouts.

The revulsion awoke the dreamer, and he
sat up dazed and miserable. He mixed a fifth
or sixth stiff tumbler and drank it, for, like
other men oppressed by care, he was beginning
to fly to that false and foolish solace. In time
he drowsed again, and the dream came back
precisely as before, and again the revulsion of
feeling awoke him. This time a dim little light
of hope seemed to accompany his waking, and
he struggled to get back to sleep to dream it
over again. Everybody knows that if you
dream a thing three times it is sure to come
true. But though the dream haunted him
whilst he waked, it fled him when he slept.
The fire burned out, and he awoke chill and
desolate to find the chimney-piece clock marking
the unheard-of hour of half-past one. He
went to bed oppressed by fears and remorse,
and, tossing an aching head in the dark, tried

to force sleep and the dream back again. But
all at once, as he tossed and tumbled, a very
sunbeam of intelligence seemed suddenly to
warm and light his mind, and he sat up and
clasped his hands together. Then he sank
back with a sigh of comfort.

He would make the dream prophetic ! He
would have it true !

Ay ! and he saw his way to it. There was
no hope of sleep for him that night, but as he
lay and turned over his plan in his stiff join ted
mind, the clouded horizon seemed to hft more
and more, peace came back to him — or promised
a return, at least — and his hold upon his
fortune grew sure again.

He was up with the first gleam of dawn,
arranged his business, wrote a number of letters,
packed a portmanteau, and started by the.
earliest train for London.

Everybody has heard of Messrs. Croesus
Brothers. They are leviathan financiers, helping
to make wars, helping, when it pays them,
to keep peace — and as powerful in either

direction as ScliouvalofT or Bismarck. They
make loans to empires, and comet their profits
by tens of thousands.

The junior partner, Sir Jonas Croesus, who
had been a Cabinet minister, and was likely to
take office again when the political wheel
should turn, was a grey and worn-looking man,
with a face of singular kindness and honesty.
He was a Jew by descent, and by habit a
Christian. He was probably meant by nature
for a philanthropist, but he was a financier on
a large scale to begin with, and latterly he had
spent a dozen years or so in Parliament, in hot
fight for office most of the time, and he had
grown somewhat hardened. But though a Jew
and a financier and a post-Cabinet minister, and
as hard as nails in politics and business, he
was a good-hearted creature, and was even
something of a sentimentalism at bottom.

Croesus Brothers were old George's London
agents, and he was known to them as a sound
and reputable business man, whose affairs stood
on a big basis. He had never come into personal
contact with either of the partners, but

he was known to them m advance, and he sent
in his name with some certainty of being attended
to.

Sir Jonas will see yon, sir,' said an elderly
clerk, when Mr. Bushell had waited for a
minute or two. George followed the clerk
into a comfortable room where sat Sir Jonas at
a knee-table with docketed papers on it, and
an ivory mouth-pieced tube which ran into the
floor. The country man of business was a
little surprised, was even a little dashed, to see
such trifling signs of work about. He had
vaguely expected a tangled growth of tubes, a
half-dozen telegraphic machines, and a disorderly
well of papers — Bank of England notes
and acceptances from Rothschild.

Day, sir,' said Sir Jonas, nodding him to a
seat.

George needed more than this to help Mm
out. He was here on an impudent enterprise,
intending no less than to hoodwink this great
financier, and make a cat's-paw of him ; and when
he saw the lofty grey head and the sagacious
eyes of the man, he repented of his coming.

Sir Jonas made pencil marks on various papers
and looked at home. George cleared his
throat, and the great man glanced at him.

'My arrant, Sir Jonas,' said the wooden
George in his woodenest manner, ' is not what
you may call strictly on business. I want a
introduction to the Secretary o' State for the
Home Department.'

Oh ! ' said Sir Jonas ' Will you meet meat
five this afternoon, at my house ? In business
hours I attend to business only. Day, Mr.
Bushell. At five.'

Sir Jonas went on making pencil notes on
papers, and old George retired. He felt abashed
and defeated, though he told himself that it
was ridiculous to suppose that such a man as
Sir Jonas could devote his business hours to
the discussion and furtherance of other people's
private affairs. But he half-fancied his scheme
pierced through already by the sagacious eyes
of the great financier, and he went hot and cold,
whilst beneath his black kid gloves his palms
perspired. He shook himself out of these
foolish fears, but they came back again, and he

had no appetite for the solid old-English dinner
to which he sat down at a Strand restaurant at
two o'clock in the afternoon. In the course of
many years of prosperity he had learned to
appreciate claret, and he took a bottle of the
best the place afforded, and felt shade more
comfortable. Then he smoked a long clay
gravely and sipped coffee and read the papers
until half-past four, and, having paid his reckoning,
walked off solidly in the direction of
Grosvenor Square, looking the picture of
country commercial soundness and rectitude.
He timed himself so as to reach Sir Jonas's
house at five o'clock to the minute, and, being
admitted, was ushered into a shady library
which had a scent of cigar smoke about it
perceptible even to a smoker. Enter Sir Jonas
with a cigar between his lips, his waistcoat a
little open, and his feet in beaded slippers.

An introduction to the Home Secretary ? '
he said, as if renewing a conversation broken
off half a minute before. ' May I know your
object?'

Why, yes,' said George with a slow woodenness

which looked like hesitance. ' You may,
Sir Jonas. I want to make an appeal to the
clemency o' the Crown.'

In whose behalf? '

'In the behalf of a young man named
George Banks as was my private secretary, Sir
Jonas.'

Yes ? What are the circumstances ? '

He forged my name for three hunted
pounds,' said old George, with a cold desperation
which made itself heard in his voice and seen
in his face. ' He was tried an' found guilty, an'
he was sentenced to two 'ears' imprisonment.'

How long since ? '

Six months ago.'

The wicked old schemer's voice quivered,
and the great financier asked himself, ' A sentimentalist
behind that mask of wood ? ' for
being a sentimentalist himself, and a stern man
of business into the bargain, he despised sentiment
— imtil it touched him.

Have you any doubt about his guilt ?' he
asked.

'Not the least i' the world,' responded

George. 'No — he was guilty He saw how
absurd it would be to attempt to forward his
case by any doubt of young George's guilt.
But his voice sounded miserable and reluctant
when he admitted it.

Are there extenuating circumstances ? '
asked Sir Jonas. 'You must have something
to go on.'

Perhaps,' said George, ' you'll be so good,
Sir Jonas, as give me a minute to tell all about
it.'

Certainly,' replied the great man. ' Be
seated.'

Whilst old George slowly seated himself.
Sir Jonas touched the spring blind and let a
sudden flood of summer light into the room.
This disconcerted the visitor mightily, and his
face was troubled.

The fellow's in earnest,' thought Sir Jonas,
and, seating himself, nodded at his visitor to
signify attention. The sagacious eyes looked
straight at George and discomfited him so that
he was fain to hang his head, and a generally
furtive aspect laid hold upon him, and his voice

shook a little. All this told in his favour, for
he seemed to the listener to be moved in behalf
of the man whose cause he seemed to plead.

He was a smart young feller,' he said shakily
and huskily, ' an' he belonged to decent folks as
was pretty well-to-do. He was a clerk i' my
office, and I took a fancy to him an' promoted
him to be my private secretary. Then he got i*
trouble with a money lending' feller of the name o'
Curtice, and was very hard drove by him. At
the time I prosecuted I didn't know as he expected
to be able to replace the money in a
week or two, but I've found out sence as he had
a good prospect o' coin' so.'

This was a lie and a mere coincidence. Old
George knew nothing of Erebus.

He was tempted very hard, an' he expected
to be able to pay back,' he went on, his
furtive, shamefaced, hangdog look, and his
husky voice making him almost eloquent to the
financier's good heart. ' Of course, I'm not a-
saying' as that's an excuse. Sir Jonas ; but look
at what he lost. His father was well-to-do, an'
now he'll cut him off. He was going' to be

married to a nice young gell as owned a freehold
farm an' other property. An' all that aside, Sir
Jonas, two 'ears must be allowed to be a very
hot sentence for a first offence.'

Who was the judge who tried the case ? '
asked Sir Jonas.

Mr. Justice Wonnould,' said old George.

Wormould is severe,' said Sir Jonas — ' undoubtedly
severe. I have had my attention
attracted to one or two cases in which, as it
appeared to me, he leaned rather to the side of
strict justice than of a mercy which might be

wiser. But in this case, Mr. Bushell ' He

paused and fidgeted. He wanted to shake old
George by the hand, but he would not so have
betrayed himself for the world.

I wouldn't be so cruel,' said George, with
renewed tremor as he approached the nucleus
of his plot, ' as t' ask the Secretary to throw the
poor lad loose o' the world without a prospect.
What I say is, Let him have a chance. !Now,
I've got correspondents in Australia, Sir Jonas,
an' my object is to give him a passage out, ana
letter of recommendation, telhn' the wull story

plain an' straight ' — he saw that that touch was
needful — ' an' perhaps a hunted pounds to
begin again with.'

The great financier sprang from his chair and
shook the country man of business by the hand.

Mr. Bushell,' he said with warmth, ' rely
upon my influence.'

Mr. Bush ell's face went crimson and then
went grey.

I'm very much obliged to you, I'm sure.
Sir Jonas,' he said, more hoarsely than ever, and
Sir Jonas gave a renewal of the grip before he
dropped his hand. But old George had not yet
reached the actual hub of the wheel of design,
and detection was possible even now. It was
a bold plan. He went on anxiously. ' Their's
still one thing, Sir Jonas, if you'll forgive my
mention on it. I'm in a pretty big way o'
business, an' I've got five-and-thirty clerks i' my
employ, and three or four hunted men. Now,
if it got to be known as I'd took a step to free
this young man, the consequences might be
dangerous. As it is, he's took for a example,
an' I mek no doubt he's talked about for such.

VOL. II. F

Now, miicli as I wish it, I can't move i' this
matter if it is to get into the papers an be
known fur an' wide.'

Do good by stealth, and blush to find it
fame ! ' said Sir Jonas to himself. ' This man
is a Christian ! A gentleman at heart ! A
jewel of a fellow ! ' The jewel of a fellow
waited with bitter anxiety and fear.

Do you think,' he ventured to say after a
pause, ' as that 'ud be possible ? '

I cannot say what view the Home Secretary
may take of the matter, Mr. Bushell,' said Sir
Jonas, walking up and down with his hands
behind him, ' but I can at least promise that your
benevolent scheme shall not suffer at my hands.
If you will allow me, I will see the Secretary
this evening. I shall meet him at the House,
and will do my best to secure you an interview.'

Thank you. Sir Jonas,' said old George.

George Banks,' said Sir Jonas, bending
above the table, pen in hand, and writing ashe
spoke. ' Private secretary to Mr. George
Bushel]. Tried for forgery before Mr. Justice
Wormould. Where ? *

Stafford,' said Gorse.

When ? ' asked Sir Jonas as he wrote.

First o' Febiwerry last,' George answered.

Good.' Sir Jonas laid the sheet of notepaper
upon a blotting-pad, folded it, and set his
hand upon it. ' You will excuse me now, Mr.
Bushell. Where shall I write to you ? '

I shall stop i' town,' said George, ' until I've
seen the Secretary for the Home Department.'
He named his hotel, and Sir Jonas, again shaking
him warmly by the hand, escorted him to the
door and saw him off in person.

That dull old fellow is an honour to human
nature,' said Sir Jonas.

I didn't think,' said the dull old fellow ashe
walked away, ' as I should ha' got round him
anything' like so easy.'

Sir Jonas s£iw the Home Secretary that
evening in the smoking-room of the House,
and laid George Bushell's story before him.
The official had that day been greatly tried by
a circumstance which made him glad to be
lenient. A man somewhere in the North of
England had been found guilty of murder and

sentenced to death. Strenuous efforts had been
made to obtain a reprieve, and the Home
Secretary had gone through a most unpleasant
time. He had conscientiously examined the
evidence ; he made all reasonable inquiry ; he
would willingly have leaned to mercy's side had
it been possible, but he was compelled in
conscience to let the sentence take effect. The
man had been hanged that morning, and had
died protesting his innocence, and the Home
Secretary had read his protest in the early
editions of the evening papers. He was sure he
had done his best to be just — he believed the
sentence deserved — but, after all, there was a
doubt in his mind — the merest shadow, and
yet enough.

The most impartial of judges and best of men
are apt to be affected in this way.

'Wormould has a heavy hand,' he said,
when he had heard the story through. ' But
two years even for a first offence is not an 
sentence.'

I suppose not,' said Sir Jonas. ' But I
wish you could see the man. And life is not so

gracious a business that it is worth while to
stifle anybody's generous impulses except on
good reason.'

No,' said the Secretary with a half-laugh.
Except on good reason. This sort of thing is
really not so rare as you seem to fancy. Prosecutors
relent when they have gone too far,
and think they can stop the judicial machine by
king a finger on the fly-wheel.'

You figuring as the fly-wheel ? ' said Sir
Jonas.

Precisely,' the Secretary answered.

Will you see the man ? I shall take it asa
personal favour.'

If you put it in that way,' said the
Secretary.

Yes, I put it in that way,' said Sir Jonas.

I'm horribly busy.'

^ Busier than I am ? ' asked the great
financier.

The Secretary smiled.

You have the man's address ? '

Of course,' said Sir Jonas. ' He is within
a mile of us. Come! the %ht downstairs

won't begin for a couple of hours. Shall I send
for him now ? '

'If you win;

Sir Jonas addressed a brief note to George
Bushell, Esq., and despatched a messenger by
cab. Old George, when he came to think about
it, had been comforted by his interview with Sir
Jonas, and had taken a glass or two of whisky
on the strength of it. When the messenger
arrived with the note, he began to be afraid that
he was scarcely fit to see a Home Secretary,
or be seen by one ; but, having sluiced his
head and face with fair water, he felt better,
and, joining the messenger, was driven to the
Palace of Westminster.

Now, the Home Secretary — as Sir William
Harcourt knows — is an important personage,
and for any criminal person, with a possibility
of penal servitude for life hanging over him, to
approach so great a functionary with intent
to make a cat's-paw of him, is an act of
amazing boldness, possibly of amazing-rashness,
possibly of astounding folly. This
consideration began to weigh heavily upon

George's mind, aud, when the Bade light
became visible at the top of the great tower, its
very rays seemed to pierce him as with darts of
anguish. But he lacked the courage to runaway,
and, indeed, he stood condemned to go
through with the business now. And why
shoidd anybody suspect him? Why should
anybody look for an evil motive behind such
a promise of benevolence ? Who was likely
to guess his relationship with the criminal ?
Vague, horrible fears that the Home Secretary
might be personally acquainted with all the
archives of Somerset House in detail assailed
the miserable old schemer, and a hundred other
fears, as foolish and as visionary, chilled him to
the marrow as he followed the messenger into
the strange precincts of the House, where, for
anything old George knew to the contrary,
there might be torture-chambers.

Sir Jonas, valuing time too highly to endure
George's drawl, told the story for him, appealing
to him now and then with a ' That is so,
Mr. Bushell?'

That is so,' George answered to each of

these iaqiiiiies, and his heart seemed gradually
to come back to hin. But Sir Jonas did not
insist on privacy, and George broke in with
hang-dog furtive air, standing hat in hand in a
corner of the smoking-room. ' Their's another
thing. Sir Jonas, as you've forgot ta mention.'

'What is that?'

I can't move i' this matter at all, if anybody's
to know as I had a hand in it, or if it's
to get into the papers as the young man hasn't
served his sentence.'

Do good by stealth, and blush to find it
fame,' Sir Jonas whispered behind his hand.

I've got thirty-five clerks i' my employ,'
George went on, repeating his argument of
that afternoon, ' an' some hunters o' workmen,
an' it 'ud be a bad example. I should
fear to set it.'

Well said,' cried Sir Jonas.

The great official said urbanel}^ that the
case should have his best attention. The judge
who tried the case must be consulted, and the
chaplain and governor of the gaol must report
on the criminal's conduct and condition. The

step suggested was a grave one, and must not
be taken hastily. The proposal reflected the
very greatest credit on Mr. Bushell's heart.
And, in brief, it was plain even to old George
himself that this most insolent and audacious
of schemes was in a fair way to success.

He gave his home address, took a respectful
leave, and went back to his hotel ; elated,
yet shuddering. If his motive should be discovered
?

Yet, a man will willingly endure a great
deal for a quarter of a million of money, and
brother Joseph's quarter of a million had taken
root in George's soul. He would rather have
died than have surrendered it.

Every now and again it occurred to him
that it might be that all the trouble he had
taken, and the danger he had incurred, were
unnecessary ; but his fears goaded him, and
the thinnest shadow of dreadful chance struck
terror to his soul. He returned now to the
Black Country, and was tried by the agony of
the law's delay for three dreary weeks. At
the end of that time he received an official note

informing him tlaat this prayer was granted,
and that, except for the necessary publication
through the ordinary official channels, which,
of course, could not possibly be dispensed with,
his desire for secrecy would be respected. The
reservation stabbed him like a knife

Their's nothing' for it,' he said, sitting in
his armchair and staring stupidly at the fire,
but to get him out o' the country wi' a rush,
an' so ha' done wi' it.'

The official note inclosed an authorisation
to visit the prisoner, and intimated besides that
the revised term of the prisoner's durance
would expire in a month's time within a day
or two.

I'll goo an' see him,' said George, ' this
very day.' But, as he rose in blind haste to
forward his scheme, that dreadful swimming in
the head from which he had twice or thrice
suffered came back upon him. He saw nothing
but a silvery mist, with splashes in it of alternate
ink and fire, and he sank into his seat and
lost consciousness.

CHAPTEE XVII.

There was a pious warder in the gaol in which
young George was confined, and one night, ashe
locked the prisoner up, he threw in a word
in season.

There's a worse prison than this, young
man,' said the pious warder.

What's that ? ' said the prisoner. He was
a good deal reduced by prison diet, for one
thing, and he was not too proud to speak to
anybody. And besides, except the chaplain,
nobody had ever offered him a civil word. So
he answered quite briskly, and in a tone of
interest, 'What's that?'

Hell ! ' said the pious warder, and closed
the door.

George, as this theological bullet struck
him, leaped to his feet and cried out to the
hearing walls and the iron door, though he

took care not to speak until the door was
closed.

Insolent cad ! ' Then, being weakened by
prison diet — for as yet he was new to its
effects, and had not even begun to experience
its tonic influence — he sat down .by his little
bit of gaslight, and began to cry. The way of
transgressors is hard, and he felt the hardship
without fully recognising himself as a transgressor.
He was ill-used. It was such a
ridiculous absurdity to suppose that a man in
his position, and with his prospects, should have
meant to rob anybody of three hundred pounds.
A fool as gross as ignorance made drunk could
scarcely think it — the idea was so monstrously
and palpably absurd. And yet people actually
did think it, and as a consequence he was here,
condemned to two years' imprisonment, a felon,
branded for life, lost, friendless, hopeless. And
nobody pitied him, nobody thought how horribly
unlucky he was ; nobody guessed how
honourable and high-minded he really was at
bottom. If he wept under the burden of these
reflections and the shock of the warder's insolence,
what wonder ?

Since his entry to the gaol he had been
admirably subordinate, partly through policy,
and perhaps a little because he was prone by
nature to avoid resisting strong things. Here
authority, though calm, was strong enough to
have cowed a much more pugnacious nature.
George's valour was essentially discreet, and he
made a model prisoner. The Chaplain had
heard good reports of him, and, as luck would
have it, he paid his first real visit to his new
charge whilst George was crying. He had
gone formally into his cell once before, and
had dropped a text or two, but now he came
prepared with all the weapons of Gospel agriculture,
to plough and sow and harrow the
criminal's send.

The door opened, and the forger sat with
his head in his hands, weeping. The door
closed again, and the Chaplain and the prisoner
were alone. George knew him by his legs, and
had no need to look up to recognise him. The
Chaplain's were the only black broadcloth
trousers in the prison.

I am glad,' said the Chaplain, * to find you
softened by your chastisement.*

The prisoner's gorge arose, but lie said
nothing. Softened ? Why should anybody be
glad to find him softened, victim of injustice
and ill-fortune as he was ?

The time already afforded you for reflection,'
pursued the Chaplain, ' has. been brief,
and that which remains before you is long. I
implore you to make good use of it.'

Now, there was a double insult, and George
was quick to see and feel both edges of it.

The object of punishment ' — so the Chaplain
flowed on — ' is twofold. In one aspect it
is strictly punitive. In another it tends to
reformation. Here you have time to consider
your past misdeeds, and to make and strengthen
holy resolutions for the future.'

Canting hound ! ' said the prisoner to himself.
' What sort of resolutions would he make
if he were here ? *

But the Chaplain habitually set the weapons
of Gospel agriculture to work on stony ground,
and would not have been much discouraged
even if the prisoner had spoken his thoughts
aloud. He went on, business-like, with truths

trite enough, but no less true on that account,
to set the enormity of the prisoner's offence
before him. Then he told him how unhappy
he was, and at this period in his harangue the
hearer's tears fell fast. He told the miserable
George how he had sacrificed the substance of
happiness and prosperity for the mere shadow
of a fleeting joy; and when George sobbed in
answer, the Chaplain warmed to his text and
grew nearly eloquent. And the more eloquent
the Chaplain grew, the more the criminal was
affected ; and the more the prisoner was affected,
the more the Chaplain was stirred to effort.
He was a thoroughly good man, pious and in
earnest, and we all like an appreciative listener.
The criminal cried at the exhortation, and the
exhorter naturally felt well disposed to him, as
you would feel to me if I laughed at your comic
story, and shed tears at your strokes of narrative
pathos, brother-novelist.

George himself began to think the Chaplain,
within limits, an appreciative sort of man ; and
when, beneath the prisoner's tears and its own
eloquence, the exhorting voice began to shake

and to grow a little husky, the criminal murmured
that he felt the value of sympathy, and
would think of the good advice which had been
given him.

The Chaplain in parting shook him by the
hand and left a tract behind him. That sort of
literature had never had any charms for the
criminal until now, but anything is better than
nothing, and he read the tract and took an
interest in it, and read it so often, for sheer
want of something better to do, that he knew it
almost by rote when the good man next visited
him. And if on future occasions he humbugged
the Chaplain, he began by humbugging himself.
Every man but the greatest has a little of
the chameleon in him, and takes his colour
from surroundings. Young curates coming up to
town and meeting old college chums in bachelor
chambers have been known in the course of a
day or two to throw off something of the
restraint of habitual piety, to drink bitter beer
once again, and to take a bashful hand at sixpenny
napoleon. It is within living memory
that the late Mr. Peace told the chaplain of the

gaol within which he suffered the final penalty
of the law that he — Peace — would show the
Chaplain how a Christian could die. Impressionable
human nature! — not altogether deceived,
nor more than nine-tenths deceiving.

And so, on a sudden, this young man became
quite a model of Christian propriety.
He forgave John Keen and all his other enemies
; he admitted the justice of the sentence
which had been passed upon him, and out of
the depths of his regeneration he wrote a letter
to Dinah, a letter so pious and edifying that the
Chaplain consented to let it go, and, by the
Governor's permission, posted it with his own
hands. In that epistle he set before his supposed
sister the manner in which he had become
converted from the error of his ways, and
besought her also to seek the cleansing fountain
in which he had been sanctified. Poor Dinah
was spared the misery of reading this effusion.
The local postmaster returned it to
the gaol, marked in red ink, ' Gone. Left no
address.'

No. 32, B Corridor, became a sort cf model

VOL. II. G

prisoner, and was in the main treated with
great kindness. The pious warder even went
so far as to supplement his rations — against all
rule — with bottles of warm tea and wedges of
pork pie, the which 32 of B Corridor gratefully
received and disposed of. And when at length,
beneath the seal of official secrecy, the inquiries
prompted by old George Bushell were made
by the Home Department, the Governor and
the Chaplain were both honestly pleased that a
young fellow who showed such sincere desire
for amendment seemed likely to have another
chance in the world. Their reports were eminently
favourable to the prisoner, who, as a
matter of course, knew nothing of the negotiations.


The benevolent employer, awaking from
Ms swoon, found himself chilled to the very
marrow, and so weak that he could scarcely
rise from his chair. For a while he was not
sure that he had not fallen asleep after reading
the official letter; but as he grew clearer, he
remembered that he had fallen suddenly back
with an awful swimming in the head, and his

fears once more got hold of him. Four-and-twenty
years ago and more, so his dull conscience
now recalled him to the truth, he had
begun to plot against his nephew, only with
the faintest hope that the plot might be successful.
All these years Nemesis had slumbered,
and now was upon him. He was going
to be punished for his wickedness. These
visitations frightened him, for they came in
answer to his sins. Well, then, he would make
all straight and right again — would make full
restitution — when he died. In the meantime,
surely, no Deity could be displeased by his
benevolence to a young man who had so
shamefully betrayed his trust. He would be
good to young Banks, and free him from prison,
and give him a new chance in the world, and
money to start with, two hundred pounds
instead of one — an ample provision. And then
he would make a new will, and in place of
founding the great Bushell Hospital and Institute
in its projected entirety, he would bequeath
everything his brother Joseph had left behind
him to Dinah, its rightful owner. Surely,

G 2

thought the old sinner, tremulous now and full
of fears, that was enough to do. Surely that
put a new complexion on the matter, and
made his plot pious. If his own conscience
could not see a flaw in the new scheme, might
he not believe or hope that the flaw went unseen?
There was one thing about which he
was absolutely certain. He had never meant
to be a wicked man, and if circumstances
tempted him too strongly to be resisted now, it
was in his power to do justice at the end.
Even in the meantime he was acting benevolently
to the criminal George. He, at least,
was not at present entitled to a penny of the
money, and a year and a half of imprisonment
lay before him, apart from the self-excusing,
self-accusing old rascal's interference.

I am ashamed to have wasted so many
words on so simple an analysis. Everybody
knows how to cheat his conscience.

Tremulous still, and looking old and haggard,
he began his preparations for his journey. He
wrote and despatched instructions to the
managing clerk at his offices, with respect to

some hitherto arranged affairs, filled a pocket
flask with whisky as a guard against any new
attack of faintness, and, walking to the railway
station, was borne away. People who met him
noticed his haggard pallid looks, and said to
one another that old Bushell was ageing fast
and beginning to break up. He felt it himself,
though he set down much of it to his late continuous
anxiety, and looked forward to a rapid
recovery when its cause should have disappeared.


The journey was not a lengthy one, and
the sunlight was lying hot and white upon the
main street of the country town when he
reached it. But now a great reluctance to go
near the gaol fell upon him, and he walked
down the shady side of the road with new
tremors and misgivings, all undefined, and probably
the worse to bear on that account. He
was unknown to the few unoccupied residents
who gazed idly after him, but all faces looked
suspicious to him in his timorous mood, and
everybody seemed to know his errand. The
sexton's statement oppressed him, and he feH

what a very awkward tiling it was for a man
who had a possible sentence of transportation
for life hanging over him to put his head
inside a gaol. But the thing had to be done,
and when the road was quite clear of observers,
he advanced to the massive gate — the very gate
he had seen in his dream, though he had never
beheld it with bodily eyes before — and rang
the bell. The echoes went clanging and tingling
about the hollow courtyard, and a warder
opened a side door and demanded to know his
business.

Tek my card in to the Governor,' said
old George, with shaky pomposity. 'I'm the
bearer of a letter from the Home Secretary, and
I want to see him.'

Walk in, sir,' said the warder respectfully,
and the visitor obeyed. How the startled
echoes clanged and tingled through the hollow
court when the warder slammed the solid little
door !

The warder, having called a fellow official,
gave him Mr. Bushell's card, with instructions
to take it to the Governor ; and then, inviting

the visitor to be seated, mopped his forehead
and said it was a roaster. Old George assented
and looked at the ornaments on the wall, all
of which were disagreeably suggestive of strong
durance. After what seemed a long pause,
heavy footsteps set the echoes going in the
courtyard again, and the messenger reappeared.

The Governor's compliments, sir, and will
you walk this way.'

Out into the open yard, then through a
heavy door — which the warder unlocked — into
a corridor, then through another door into a
lengthen corridor. All the doors, old George
noticed with an uncomfortable sleepiness in the
region of the spine, closed with a snap behind —
and now, if the Secretary of State had pierced
his plan from the first, how safe they had him !
That was all nonsense, and he knew it, but he
shivered at it. He was relieved when, having
traversed the whole length of the gaol, they
came upon another open space, turfed and not
paved this time, and beyond it the Governor's
house, looking solid and prison-like, but still a
little more cheerful and less terrible than the
living grave behind.

The Governor was not in the least official
in appearance — a grey, elderly gentleman, with
a cordial look and manner. He received his
visitor with something more than courtesy, and
shook hands as if he where pleased to see him.
The fact was that he had heard of j^ld George's
amazing goodness, and, being himself of a
kindly nature, was much impressed by the
story. It is not every day in the year that a
man who has been so ill-repaid for the affection
wasted on a j^'^'otege chooses to act in this
Christian spirit of forgiveness.

At present,' said the Governor, ' the young
man is of course unprepared. Perhaps, Mr.
Bushel 1, you would like to carry him the news
of your own benevolence, eh ? '

I should like to see him, certain 1}%' said
old George, ' an' maybe to say a solemn word
to him. You see, Mister, what a mistake it
'ud be if he Alas to be let out impenitent after
all.' He was so falling into the part, that he
began to regard all sides of it quite naturally.
Those fears of possible detection had been
purely nervous, and had not assailed his reason :

or at least he told himself so, now, when he
saw the Governor so friendly. ' They was all
mere foolery, of course,' said he to himself.

'Well, you know, Mr. Bushell,' said the
Governor with a half-laugh, ' a prisoner's penitence
is a thing the quality of which it is very
difficult to judge until you see it actually worn
and tried outside. " The devil was sick " —
you know. And I dare say,' added the Governor,
' that while the sickness lasted, his penitence
was real enough. That's the way with
'em here.'

Ah ! ' said George, wondering what the
man was talking about ; ' so I should suppose.
So I should suppose.'

At the same time, I must tell you that the
Chaplain thinks very favourably of the young
man.'

Ah ? ' said George. ' That's well. That's
well.'

The schemer's hair was grey, his face was
coming to be a good deal seamed and furrowed,
it was pale just now, and had a worn look on it ;
immobile as the old rascal was, it was plainly to

be seen that he had suffered. His dull, slow
speech, his almost expressionless front, with only
that look of late pain upon it, had more effect
than could easily have been fancied. The man
looked so simple and genuine, not at all like a
schemer against his protege. A woadenly benevolent,
good, stupid, slow creature ! There is
even a mournful admiring tenderness, a tinge
of pathos, in one's thoughts concerning him.

Would you like to see the Chaplain ? '
asked the Governor.

Well,' said George deliberately, ' I don't
know as it oughtn't be as well.'

Or perhaps,' said the Governor, ' you'd
like to see the young fellow himself first ? '

Well,' returned George, ' I don't know as I
shouldn't. Yes,' he added with a most involuntary
sigh, ' I'll get that over.'

Very well, Mr. Bushell. Come this way,
if you please.'

George followed the Governor back into the
gaol, and as he did so the nervous feelings he
had been able to despise a few minutes ago
returned upon him. It was not easy to despise

them now. Suppose there should be something
in them, after all ! Old George in gaol precincts,
with the knowledge of his own criminal
acts within him, was not the man to be happy
in his mind. A warder went before them unlocking
the doors, and fastening them behind,
and at last he and they came to Corridor B and
then to door 32, and this being opened revealed
the figure of a man at whom the benevolent
intruder looked with no recognition. The
Eightful Heir, with sleek cropped head and
clean-shaven face, looked up and knew his late
employer ; but the young George was so altered
by his prison dress, and by the prison shears
and razor, that the old man might have looked
at him for five minutes without guessing; who
he was. The prisoner sprang to his feet, and,
with head a little bent, stood in attitude of
attention.

Banks,' said the Governor, ' this gentleman
desires to speak to you. I hope that what he
has to say will make a proper impression on
you.'

Now, the prisoner was making rapid progress

towards spiritual perfection. He had
forgiven all his enemies, theoretically, and he
had cultivated all his own evil passions out of
himself. For a month or two past he had been
quite saintly, and had taken the deepest interest
in his own spiritual symptoms. Yet he did rile
up a little at old George's intrusion, and as the
intruder walked into his cell the criminal's
newly-holy soul went bilious on a sudden. For
he remembered yet — he had never meant to
swindle his employer — he had only tried to
borrow for a month or two without asking
leave, and he had been very harshly treated.
He had prayed to be able to forgive old George,
but human nature is fallible, and when he saw
him he had no forgiveness for him.

Do you wish your interview to be absolutely
private, Mr. Bushell ? ' asked the Governor,
withdrawing him a little towards the door.

I think I'd rather,' said old George slowly.
He meant to finish there, but perhaps a shade
of disapproval or disappointment in the Governor's
face, perhaps a half frightened desire to
propitiate him, made him remount the phrase.
I think rd rather as you was with us.'

The Governor was a little curious, and the
situation was interesting.

I shall be most happy he returned.
Wait there,' he said to the warder, ' until I
tap the door, and then unlock it.'

He closed the cell-door with a snap, and
old George started at it. It had a strange
quick sound upon the ear, that click of a prison
lock, as I have before noticed, and even an
undetected criminal may very well jump a little
at it. But disturbed as he was, he recognised
his private secretary now, and began to string
himself up for the work which lay before him.

Mr. Banks,' he said with laboured deliberation,
' IVe come to see you on a most important
matter — a matter as concerns you very
deeply. You've had time, sence you was here, to
think things over, an' I hope you've done it, anas
you've begun to see things in their proper light.'

The criminal with downward glance murmured
to the effect that he hoped so and believed
so. He was near the truth in one respect, though
unconsciously — for he loathed old George, and
trembled with anger at the sight of him.

I'm willing' to hope so, also,' said the

Wrongful Heir, ' willing' an' eager. I'm glad to
hear from the Governor of this gaol as the
Chaplain believes as you're sincerely penitent.'

I trust I am,' said the Eightful Heir.

I'm here as your sincere friend, Mr. Banks,'
the Wrongful Heir resumed. ' I dare say as
you've thought many-pastime what an ill-judged
thing it was you did, let alone the wickedness
on it. I suppose, now, as you've found the punishment
pretty heavy ? '

I have deserved it all, sir,' said detected
criminality, playing to the Governor, but his
inward speech was unsupportable.

The undetected criminal flowed on.

You've had time afore now to think o'
what you've parted with through folly. Your
chances was bright. You'd ha' been well-to-do
an' respected now if it hadn't ha' been for that.
You'd very like ha' been settled down an' married
afore to-day, for I know what your prospects
was.'

The detected criminal began to weep, for
mingled rage and pity of himself. The undetected
criminal continued.

I'm glad to see as you feel your position
that keen, Mr. Banks.'

Oh, the surging rage and self-pity in the
little soul ! A storm in a tea cup ! Ay, but the
vessel trembled, and was like to break with it.

I took a liken' to you from the first,' old
George went on, encouraged by the effect of
his own oratory, and somehow, in a dim sort of
way, feeling himself wronged and magnanimous,
an' you can't help allowing' as I did my best to
push you forwards. I was forced to prosecute,
because it was a public booty, but now you've
been punished, an' I'm not desirous of no
revenge upon you, not though I used to like
you, an' you played me cause.'

What was this ? the prisoner asked himself
with a heart that fluttered in his breast, like a
flag in the wind. What was it ?

So I've used my influence,' said the old
scoundrel, 'with the 'One Secretary, an' he's
consented to rejoice your sentence.'

The young scoundrel dropped on the side
of his bed, which stood half-way retired in a
niche in the wall. His head and the wall came

pretty sharply in contact, or he would probably
have fainted with amazement and the revulsion
of his feeling towards old George. He could
scarce believe his eyes and ears.

Banks,' said the Governor, who was moved
within by this strange interview, though he was
too self-possessed to show it, ' I trust that never
so long as you live you will allow the memory
of this generous forgiveness to fade from your
mind.'

The prisoner was too amazed and agitated
to say a word.

I allays liked you,' said old George, ' an' I
allays took a interest in you. An' now I've
employed my influence along wi' my friend Sir
Jonas Croesus,' — this had, as it was meant to
have, a certain weight with the Governor, —
an' I've had an interview along of the 'One
Secretary. In a month's time you'll be set free,
an' then you must try an' see if you can't act
wiser an' better.'

Young George slid from the bedside where
he sat, and kneeling there buried his face in the
cheap hard rug which made his counterpane,

and wept anew. This forgiveness really broke
him. It took him by surprise and by storm, and
his sobs were torn up by the roots. He had
been a scoundrel — he confessed it inwardly, at
last — he had been a fool, he acknowledged it.
For a minute or two the burden of his newborn
gratitude was hard to endure. The
Governor was affected, and blew his nose repeatedly,
waving a loud-coloured silk handkerchief
about in a way which revealed, whilst it
was meant to disguise, his inward agitation.
Old George stood there Wooden and cold, but
even he was scarcely self-possessed, as you may
easily conceive. But neither of his auditors
yet knew how far the benevolent creature's
kindliness had carried him, and his grand coup
had yet to be made, so far as they Averse concerned.


Now,' he continued, when the prisoner's
sobs had grown less violent and the Governor
had ceased to blow his nose, ' this country's
about played out for you, Mr. Banks, or at least
I'm very much afeard it is. But it 'ud be cruel
instead o' been' kind to turn you loose o' the

VOL. II. II

world again without a prospect. Now, repose I
give you another start i' the world, what do
you say to going' out t' Australia an' try in' to
begin afresh? I believe as you are penitent,
an' I hope prosperous times '11 wait upon you
their. Now, what do you say t' Australia ?

What was young George likely to say to
Australia under the circumstances ? I was about
to say that he jumped at the chance : in reality,
he crawled at it, for he turned upon his knees
and made at the undetected swindler as if to
embrace his legs, and had not old George
retired precipitately behind the Governor, he
would have done it.

God bless you, Mr. Bushell ! ' he cried ina
voice shaky with many sobs. ' God bless
you, sir ! God bless you ! '

I say the same, sir, as this poor fellow here,'
cried the Governor, with the silk handkerchief
in full play again. ' Yes, sir. Damn it all, sir,
I say the same ! You are a worthy man, Mr.
Bushell. I am proud, sir, to have met you.'

Thank you,' said old George, woodenly,
and the two shook hands, whilst the forgiven

forger crawled back to his bedside and wept
afresh. It was a moving scene, and the practical
exponent of Christian charity, as he stood
there, shook at the fancy —

If they was to find me out, after all ! '

H 2

CHAPTER Xviii.

I SHALL give you letters of introduction,
Mr. Banks, to my old correspondents in Melbourne,
in Australia,' said George. ' I m afeard
I shall have to tell the truth about you, because
I don't rightly think as it 'ud be honourable to
deceive 'em. I shall give you two hundred
pound, an a outfit, an' your passage-money.'

The criminal was broken indeed at this, and
even the Governor, if there had been anybody
to look at him, would have been seen to be
visibly affected.

I trust an' hope,' continued George, ' that
being thus provided, Mr. Banks, you'll ha' no
more temptation to depart from the straight
road. It's that alone as leads to prosperity an'
happiness, an' I do hope you'll tek it.'

Whilst he spoke thus, old George's conscience
twinged him faintly, but then he remembered

that in his case the obstacle to
honesty had been quite insuperable lately. And
at the beginning he had never meant to swindle
anybody. He had only helped his errant
nephew, Joe, as he was now helping Joe's son
and heir.

The criminal promised upon his knees, with
tears and gasping which almost made his
speech inarticulate.

This gentleman,' said old George, indicating
the Governor, ' 'full let me know, an' let
you know, dien the release which has been
given to you is to come about. I shall hope o
meet you here, Mr. Banks, an' to accompany
you on your journey, an' aboard ship I shall
place the sum I've mentioned in your hands.
I trust as you won't think as I'm a-tekin' undo
precautions, sir,' he added, appealing to the
Governor.

I think your whole scheme most praiseworthy
and admirable, sir,' cried the Governor,
since you are so good as to ask me my
opinion of it.'

Well, sir,' said George, his mission being

now accomplished, you'll let me know the date
at which this young man's sentence '11 expire ? '

'I can tell you that at once,' said the
Governor, ' and as I am authorised to inform
the prisoner, I may as well tell you here. This
is the 29th. On the 28th of next month, being
Monday, he will be discharged at noon.'

I shall be here,' said old George with cold
desperation, ' to meet him.' He turned to the
criminal and said ' Good-bye.' The youngster
took his hand and kissed it, and wept above
it with inarticulate gasps of benediction and
thanksgiving, until his benefactor lost patience
and took it away. The warder came in answer
to the Governor's summons, and released them,
and young George was left to his reflections.
They were bitter, but sweetened by
touches of gratitude and hope and new resolve.
He would be a new man, and in that distant
land to which he was bound he would lead a
frugal, honourable, and industrious life. Mr.
Bushell was right. England was played out
for him, and he could never more hold his head
up where people had known him. But in a

new laud lie could take a fresh start, and
nobody need know of his criminality. Thereabouts
in his reflections a chill fear fell upon
him. Mr. Bushell, his saviour and benefactor
though he was, spoke of the need of telling his
whole story to his agents in Melboimie. Would
he, in that case, send the letter by post, or entrust
it to his own hand ? If it were entrusted
to him, it would be easy to lose it ; and with
the springing of that defensive fancy in his
mind, gratitude began to cool a little, and
reflections about his own future to take the
place of it. But the fit was so hot that it could
not cool down all in a second, and before the
young man could resolve to burke that letter incase
it were entrusted to him, he was assailed
by gust after gust of grateful emotion, and this
condition lasted him for a week at least. Then
he began to feel an amazing flutter about his
approaching liberty. The prison barber had
left off trimming and shaving him, and he used
to feel his hair and rejoice to find it long enough
to get a grip of. Looking-glasses have no part
in gaol economy. Before his waiting month

was out, his hair, which grew rapidly, was long
enough not to look remarkable, and he knew
that he was pale enough to pass for one who
had had a recent fever. At the first blush of
his new resolves he had determined, amongst
other things, on a very strict adherence to
veracity. He made up his mind that nothing
in the world should tempt him to deviate by a
hair's-breadth from the truth. But before lonsf
he began to see what hard measure that was.
He must lie a little. Necessity wps laid upon
him. How could he confess to anybody the
real reason of his pallor, or account with accuracy
for the shortness of his hair ? That would
be suicidal. He meant to be religious — he
really meant to be religious, and the best of
Christians — but did religion exact so rigid and
even ridiculous a discipline ? He thought not.
The Chaplain was often with him in these
last days of his imprisonment ; reading and
praying with him, and doing his best to build
up in the departing gaol-bird those principles of
honour and justice the want of which had carried
him there. He was not wholly excused from

work, but he was gently treated, and the
Governor, being interested in him, set him todo
certain odd jobs about his garden, and relieved
his own kindly feelings by giving his
labourer an occasional surreptitious supply of
bread-and-cheese and beer. Circumstances alter
cases. Fancy George Banks finding bread-and-cheese
and beer luxurious ! Think of him
accepting the patronising presentation of it,
and being grateful !

He was less grateful, perhaps, for this
slackening of his chains than he would have
been without the assurance of approaching
liberty, and in a while the torment and agony
of hope left him no room to think of mere
gratitude to anybody. Time had never so
dragged on his hands as now ; but howsoever
long it seemed in coming, the hour came at last
and with it, the man. At stroke of noon on
Monday the 28th, old George led young George
through the prison gates and into the street,
where a hack-coach awaited them and drove
them to a distant railway station. The Chaplain
had prayed with his departing guest that

morning, and had given him much fervent advice.
The Governor bade him ' Farewell' kindly and
with hope. The dress in which he had been
arrested was returned to him, and he was
habited like himself once more.

He had wept anew with mingled feelings of
all sorts at the parson's exhortations ; and when
his late employer came to relieve him, he felt
amazingly affectionate towards him. The released
convict felt that he loved old George.
He looked at his unmeaning countenance, worn
and strained and battered with the last six or
seven months of misery ; he looked at it through
his tears, and venerated its owner. The goodman
he was — the forgiving practical Christian,
dio did good to one who had despitefully used
him ! In brief, the poor cad was quite melted
and broken upon this occasion, and vowed
amendment with all his little heart and soul.
The past scarified him — his bygone hopes, his
wasted chances ; these make scourges for all of
us at one time or another, and surely here was
a time for a man's own hand to lay the lash on
heavily.

I can never repay you, sir, for your kindness,'
said tile young man brokenly as they
drove away.

Old George had his own troubles, and their
weight pressed sorely on him just then.

Say no more about it,' he answered. ' Dry
them eyes o' your, an' be a man, Mr. Banks.'

He was horribly afraid of being observed,
not for any special reason, but in a general way.
He was horribly afraid all round — afraid of
being followed and taken back, afraid of being
met by somebody who might somehow know his
relationship with the released prisoner, afraid
that the sexton at Waston Church was just at
that moment discovering the loss of the certificate.
It was a nervous enterprise altogether
for a man of old George's mental build. He
wondered darkly within himself whether such
an expedient had ever been hit upon before,
and he wondered at himself for having hit upon
it. Whatever he thought of was perplexed,
and entangled in his mind with misgivings and
fears. It was not unnatural that he should,
under these unpleasant circumstances, begin

to hate young George his companion. For it
was as clear as day that, if that young scoundrel
had not been a scoundrel, old George would
never have experienced any of these troubles ;
Dinah would never have made her appeal to
him, and he would never have known of his
secretary's heirship to Joe Bushell. Yet,
though he did begin to hate, he had his part to
play, and his part was one of gentle friendship
and kindly consideration. That was a role
which he would have found difficult at anytime,
and now he felt it to be growing intolerable.
George's tears gave him a chance for a
partial outbreak.

Mr. Banks,' he said severely, ' I'm a-
beginning' to regret already as I took any trouble
about you. You don't seem to have no sort of
a man's heart in you. Be aether a man or a
mouse, will you ? My Blessed ! It's enough
to turn your stomach to see a man a-going'
on so.'

Thus roughly adjured, George made an
effort. He had been crying all day up till
now, and it was not easy for him to subdue

himself. He had read somewhere the words,
'It is a terrible thing when manhood weeps,'
and he got some melodramatic comfort out of
that reflection even whilst his tears were flowing.
For, though a small creature, he was
complex, and had room in him for all manner
of conflicting ideas and feelings at the same
time, so that he had cried partly because he
really couldn't help it to begin with, and partly
because it was the feeling thing to do, and
showed that he had a sensitive and emotional
organisation. His eyes and nose were red and
swollen with his tears, and his beard and moustache
were as yet scrubby and stubble-like ; so
that old George, looking upon him, saw him in
an aspect more and more unfavourable. The
young villain had at least been personable, and
now, confound him ! he was growing positively
repulsive to look at. And in spite of this, the
elder scoundrel had to counterfeit some sort of
interest and even of affectionate regard, for a
day or two, until he could see him aboard ship
for Melbourne, and have him safely dismissed
the country.

Mr. Banks being reduced by his deliverer's
admonition to an occasional gasp and snuffle of
emotion, found in little time other tidings than
his own emotions to think of. The question of
the proposed letters of introduction occurred to
him, and he began to wonder afresh. Would
they be entrusted to his hand or forwarded by
the mail ? If they were forwarded by the mail,
would it not be better to escape the stigma they
carried with them — say, by a change of name,
and by presenting himself in the search for employment
elsewhere ? Mr. Bushell had promised
him two hundred pounds, and that,
though not a fortune, was a ejood round sum of
money to begin the world with. If work were
to be had at all, a man of his presence, his business
capacity and experience, was bound to be
able to get on, and it would be suicidal to set
such a millstone about his own neck as the proclamation
of himself as a released felon would
be sure to hang there. He would go this once
into the house of the idol — he would be disingenuous
in this respect only, and after that he
would be good and true and honest. He had

had a roughish time of it ; lie lead lost almost
everything in the woiJd ; but for his employer's
amazing and unlooked-for benevolence, he had
lost all ; and he was not going to disregard such
a lesson as he had received ; how was it possible
that he could ? But this particular new
crime was necessary. He 7nust promise whatever
he was asked to promise, and then, being
free, he must act for the best. After all, he
would be only fulfilling his employer's desires
of him, and doing his best to preserve an honest
reputation. It was a pity to be thus forced and
compelled into a course which he wished to
loathe and abandon, and he was quite sure that,
if the new baseness had not been necessary, he
would never have dreamed of committing it.
If a poor devil is forced to lie, how can he help
lying ? Everybody must admit the cogency of
young George's reasoning.

The situation was singular : the young man
hopeful of gratitude to the old man who was
robbing him — the old man passing as a benefactor
to the man he was swindling on so large
a scale. And the young fellow, in the middle

of his gratitude and his good resolves, playing
the devil with his own small soul again ; and his
Christian benefactor looking at him and hating
him like poison. Cabby, as he drove, little
suspected what a load he carried, for neither
of his fares looked like a released felon. Cabby's
fancy was that the younger of his passengers
had been to see a relative who had misconducted
himself. So far as he — the cabman — knew, it
was not a habit amongst the classes her Majesty
holds in durance to weep on leaving gaol ; they
did not even weep on going into it, if they were
people of average pluck. Then, the Chaplain
had shaken hands with young George at the
gate with a hearty ' Good-bye, Mr Banks,' and
both he and the Governor had raised their hats
to old George when he parted from them.
Like other people, the driver of the hack-carriage
theorised, and when he had reached the
railway station and had received his fare, he
fell into talk with a railway porter, to whom he
set forth how that pair was father an' son they
wos, an' had been to the county gaol for to see
a relation as was quoted their, an' the young

un he was that cut-up he'd been crying' fit to
bust himself, an' what a pity it was as men as
had a chance in life should pitch it away
vohmtary-Hke, as a man might say. From
which utterances on Cabby's part, I am disposed
to think that, born in a less fortunate
station of life, he might have given his imagination
scope professionally, and have become a
writer of fiction.

Half-a-crown and a hint to the guard found
Mr. Bushell and his grateful protege an empty
compartment in a first-class carriage ; and
secured privacy all the way to Liverpool. On
the journey the elder unfolded his scheme.

I've wrote already to Melbourne,' he said,
an' I've told 'em as I'm a-sendin' you out their
to give you another chance.'

Then,' said the rescued one to himself, ' I
shall not go near your agents in Melbourne.'
But he only looked at his employer with a meek
and stricken air of grateful humbleness.

I've put it for you as gentle as I could,'
pursued old George, ' an' at the same time as
strong as I could. I've told 'em it's my belief

VOL. ir. I

as you are to be relied upon, and I've given
'em my guarantee for ^yq hunted pound. Soif
you go wrong again, Mr. Banks, you'll be
black indeed. You'd be a-robbin' me again,
an' I don't think you'd find the heart to do
that — be as bad as you might — after what I've
done for you.'

At this George the younger wept afresh.

I implore you to believe me, sir,' he answered.
' I would rather cut off my right hand
than wrong you again by a farthing.' He meant
it, but he did not mean to go near Messrs.
Nally and Tulson, of Melbourne, for all that.

I believe you,' said old George stolidly, ' or
else I shouldn't be action' as I am a-actin'. That
you may be sure on, Mr. Banks, I repose implicit
confidence in your future well-doing.'

It crossed his mind grimly that it might be
no bad thing for him if young George turned
criminal again out there. He wished him
nothing worse than a new detection and a life's
imprisonment. Hang him, the pestiferous thieving
young Eightful Heir ! It came natural to
hate him.

I shall find you a outfit,' said Mr. Bushell,
'as I've promised. I shall pay your passage
out, an' I shall put two hunted pound in your
possession when you start, so as you'll have
no 'casion to feel yourself tempted again. An'
now, the world's afore you, Mr. Banks. Use it
well, an' it'll use you well.'

Eow can I ever repay you, sir ? ' said the
deeply-affected George.

Stop that snivelling,' cried the old man
angrily. ' Be a man, an' try to be worthy o'
my goodness to you.'

I will, sir,' protested George ; ' I will,
indeed.'

Do, then ! ' said the elder ; and after that,
they continued their journey in silence for the
most part.

The appearance of the released convict was
so peculiar by reason of his tears, that on his
arrival at Liverpool his benefactor bought a pair
of dark glasses for him with shades at the sides,
and insisted upon his wearing them to hide his
eyes. The youngster submitted gratefully, for
he felt nervous under the pressure of strange

I 2

glances. He put himself under the hands of a
barber, and when chi and cheeks were cleared
of their stubble, he began to look presentable
again. There was a suspicion of cold about
his nose ; one might have set down the swollen
aspect of that feature and the pallor of his
cheeks to influenza. The two criminals took a
private sitting-room and a double-bedded sleeping
apartment at the hotel, and old George
locked his companion in the bed room whilst he
himself went out to make inquiries respecting
the sailing of a ship for Melbourne. Finding
that a first-class steam-vessel started on the
morrow, calling at Queenstown only, and that
there was still a state-room vacant, he secured
young George's place, and then returning, released
him, and took him out in the evening
hurriedly to buy an outfit. For once in his
life, he disregarded money. He felt reckless,
and forcing himself to assume an air and voice
of kindliness, he gave the exile carte blanche.

Get what you want, an' get it good,' he
said ; and his young friend obeyed him. The
outfitter kept one of those monstrous modern

establishments at which you can buy anything,
and would sell you a cradle or a coffin with
equal willingness, and anything you might want
in your journey out of one into the other. A
tailor measured young George, and a man in
the shirt department measured him, and a man
in the boot and shoe department measured him,
and the customer ordered freely, as he would
have done if the money to pay for them had
been his own. For there was old George at his
elbow : —

You'll want this, Mr. Banks, shan't you ? '

Do you think so, sir ? ' he would ask.

Certainly. You must ha' that,' and so on,
until the repentant wretched George's eyes were
moist again behind his darkened glasses, and he
had to blow the tear-swollen nose to hide his
feelings.

Before bed-time a vast chest and two portmanteaus,
crammed with articles of apparel,
arrived at the hotel, and Mr. Bushell paid the
bill presented — and paid it, too, without even
an inward murmur. The released felon wondered
at his generosity, as well he might. It

was unheard-of and almost beyond believing,
though his own eyes saw it. Ah I what had he
lost by making himself unworthy of the service
of so good a master ! It had been actually said
in his hearing at one time that old Bushell
would probably leave him a slice of his fortune,
and he believed now that it most certainly
would have been so. Yet, through it all, the
elder's manner to the man on whom he heaped
these coals of fire was cold and forced, and
wooden beyond words. There was something
puzzling in it, had old George's manner been
natural ; as it was, the situation was almost inexplicable.
But the exile was too content with
his own astounding good fortune, and too full
of gratitude and excitement, to puzzle himself
at present over this singular problem.

The two slept in the same room, and the
schemer kept zealous watch over his charge
every moment until the hour for retiring. Then
he locked the bedroom door and put the key
beneath his own pillow, and the two began to
undress slowly and awkwardly. Young George,
valiant in his new resolves, knelt down at the

bedside, and the respectable benevolent old
villain could do no other than follow his
example, and being in posture for Worship, he
tried to go through some form of prayer, but
the words stuck hard, and his head whirled.
How, he thought, if he died upon his knees,
defying God in that awful and presumptuous
way ? and at the stroke of that sudden fear he
rose and began to grope about in a twilight
splashed with blots of ink and fire ; until young
George, having finished his devotions, rose and
found his benefactor wandering with vague
outstretched hands in the middle of the chamber,
and in much alarm helped him to a chair.

Are you ill, Mr. Bushell ? ' he asked.
'I ain't well, Mr. Banks,' murmured old
George hoarsely ; ' I'm very far from welL'

He would leave Dinah everything, and let her
know her son's whereabouts. But he could not
part with his money until — ' till death do us part.'
The phrase came into his mind and chilled him
strangely. He was defrauding ' the widow and
the fatherless.' That was another phrase which
laid a chilly and discomforting finger on him.

The Bible made them sacred, lie fancied. If lie
died before that will was made and everything
thus set straight again, he felt himself in peril-but
the human conscience is conformable to
reason, and after all he was acting very kindly
to a man who had treated him very ill. And
if young George got his money in the end, it
would be more then he deserved.

Once in bed, old George applied himself to
his pocket-flask in the darkness, and got some
comfort out of it, though but little. One of his
discomforts was that he dared not toss and
tumble, since he dreaded to reveal his own uneasy
soul. Nemesis comes upon us in odd
ways at times. This may seem a small affair ;
but if you tried it through a night, you would
find it mount into an agony. To lie there ill at
ease, longing to move, restless, restless, and not
to dare to move, to catch his breath and clutch
the bed-clothes with his weak sweating fingers,
lest he should groan out aloud ; and all the
time to stare accusing conscience in the face,
and the coarse hell that ignoble and ignorant
natures fear hereafter — was it a little thins ? A

hundred times that night the old scoundrel
thought the game scarcely worth the candle.
And yet, how could he give his money up to a
man who was ignorant of the fact that he
owned it, and who, besides, was already overwhelmed
with gratitude !

CHAPTEE XIX.

Wkethedale on a Sunday, under the summer
sunshine.

I have been reading Monsieur Taine this
cold March morning, and his descriptions of
the English climate have set me out of sorts.
I long for a day of sunshine, and I am sick for
the time being of my benevolent rogue and my
rascally convert. Come with me into the
country, to the little western town, whose very
walls you will find Arcadian after London.
Let us go into sunshine and honest company.

In the Church of St. Stephen the Martyr
the windows were all open ; so that, whilst the
sleepy curate bleated in the pidpit, you heard
the sheep answer him from the meadows ; and
the wind, warm aud scented, brought with it
the rustle of the waving sunlit shady trees outside.
The day was broiling hot, the church

was cool and had a pleasant earthy odour.
Plucks of sunshine fell past the blinds and
travelled slowly along the walls, watched by
half-slumberous worshippers sweetly unheedful
of the curate's voice and oblivious of the
meaning or no-meaning of his drowsy periods.

A hot day, a cool shady church, a bleating
voice that soothed and faltered not, a lullaby
lulls, lulls, lullaby — peace, peace, and deep
tranquillity of soul.

Xot asleep, nor yet awake, and only alive
enough to be placid and at rest, sate old Daniel
with his plump hands caressing his round
waistcoat, and his spindle shanks supported by
a hassock. Dinah by his side, with a sore
heart soothed, not by the thrice-three-thousand-
times winnowed chaff of the bleating curate's
discourse (an excellent young man the curate,
a capital bat, but no orator), but tranquillized
by the holy quiet of the place and time. For a
little while, a heart at rest.

Not far away from the pew in which Daniel
and Dinah sat, was young lawyer Keen, with
his long hair in picturesque disorder and his

grey eyes looking afar off' through the curate's
Geneva gown and the curate's body. When
the curate's bleating murmur was cut short all
on a sudden, John awoke with a start from his
reverie, and the organ's voice was the voice of
love to him. The hymn being-sung and the
benediction given, away scurried John to shake
hands with old Daniel. Daniel would not
attempt to go homewards without Dinah.
Dinah would not attempt to go without
Ethel, and the young man was wonderfully
fond of the old one. !sot that he was a
hypocrite, more than ever so little ; he really
liked old Daniel, found him interesting and
odd, as he had always found him ; but perhaps
he was a greater chum of Daniel's than he
would have been if the old boy had been more
separable from his daughter, and his daughter
had been more separable from Miss Donne.
For this young man was in love full fathom
five, and though he professed to know this
passion hopeless, he fed it as often as he could.
Whilst he shook hands with Dinah and her
father in the porch, he had a lover's ears for the
voluntary Ethel played inside. He would fain

have stayed within to Hasten to it peacefully,
but was beset with fears lest for once Daniel
should have persuaded Dinah to start without
the oro-anist.

'Good morning, Miss Banks,' said John,
with the old air of guilt upon him.

Good morning, Mr. Keen,' said Dinah,
holding out her hand.

How bin you sir ? ' asked Daniel.

How are you ? ' asked John in return.

Then the conversation languished, and
lawyer Keen felt desperately guilty, under
Dinah's gentle gaze.

Lovely weather ! ' he said at last.

Yes,' said Daniel. ' It's fine likely weather
for the time o' year. It strikes a bit
code to the bones, like, when you'd i' church
though.'

It does,' said John, catching at this conversational
ark of safety. Aboard the theme he
found footing until the organ ceased to sound,
when he became silent again, and his guilty look
returned. By-and-by Ethel emerged from the
church — to John's fancy an angelic presence.
Xor yet so far away from an angelic presence in

my own. Her eyes were like dove's eyes, as
the old Hebrew lover said of his love's ; her
face as good and gentle as it well might be, a
little pallid — the lover's heart was piteous
about the cause of the pallor at all times, when
he saw her — she came through a 'band of sunlight
which lay across the porch, and the
light glorified her beautiful hair and the creamy
laces at her throat. John began to blush and
tremble in the presence of this beautiful divinity
of his.

Good morning, dear,' said Ethel to Dinah.

Good morning', my darling,' said motherly
Dinah, with warm solicitous affection.

Good morning, Miss Donne,' said the
tremulous young lawyer, hat in hand. ' Good
morning, ffiss Banks ; good morning, Mr.
Banks.' And away he went, routed for the
twentieth time, in spite of his resolve. That
right to raise his hat and say ' Good morning '
was all poor John got out of his lingering at the
porch on Sundays. ' I haven't got the pluck
of a mouse,' he said to himself reproachfully.
Why can't I face her ? Why can't I speak to
her ? Why do I look like a fool whenever she

looks at me ? Ali, poor thing ! ' pursued the
valiant John, ' she's had such trouble, it
would be a shame in me to trouble her further.
And of course for years and years to come,
whenever any fellow looks at her as if he cared
for her, she'll think of that scoundrel of a
Banks. Of course she will ! And I shouldn't
care for her if I thought she wouldn't. But
I'm not going to be beaten. If any other
fellow comes in, in the course of a year or two,
any decent fellow that she can like and be

happy with — why ' John found that

prospect unpleasant. A lover's thoughts are
likely to be contradictory. The peculiarity
about him is that, until he comes to look back
at his own raptures and desponding, he
regards them as filling up the most miserable
time of his life. It is only when the time is
over that he discovers how happy it was. My
friend Mr. Francillon has put much philosophy
into a nut-shell on this theme :

"VYe doubted, quarrelled, tore ourselves asunder ;

Faith mimicked falsehood, hope was like despair ;
We dcabt not, strive not ; calmly now we wonder

Why we were happy, yet we know we were.

Then dawned no day but brought twelve hours of sadness ;

Then fell no night but knew twelve hours of pain ;
Now night brings rest, and day brings hope and gladness ;

Yet — could we only love and weep again !

John went to church with great regularity ;
and, if he wrote satiric verses on the bleating
curate, forbore to give them publication. The
people of Wrethedale found no fault in him.
He was as well-conducted a young man as any
in the town, and walked with so much circumspection
that even Ethel could see nothing in
him to blame. And I may say here, that good
and charming as she was, she regarded poor
John with a very unreasoning dislike and
distrust ; and had momentary twinges of hatred
over him, concerning which she rebuked and
humbled herself continually. She had naturally
a tender conscience and a vivacious temperament.
Tenderness of conscience grew morbid
under the hands of Thomas a Kempis, and her
youth and trouble were sure guarantees for an
occasional touch of anger in a woman of her
complexion. You must understand that these
contentions were inward, and that she rarely
by any chance spoke an ill-natured word ; but

she used to feel mightily indignant at thousands
of things which a year before would have
passed her unnoticed, and having felt indignant
invariably felt sinful afterwards, and read her
dear k Kempis with passionate desire to equal
or come near his spirit. A good girl with lofty
spiritual longings and a heart that ached.

'Dinah,' she said with some severity, as
John walked away into the sunlight of the
street, ' I wish that young man would not speak
to us.'

'Do you, dear?' said Dinah meekly. 'He
was an old friend of ours.'

Oh the wound, the wound towards which
every chance arrow struck anew in both of
them ! Ethel took Dinah's arm, and without a
word or a glance, apology and pity flashed
from each to each, for the two had learned to
love and understand each other rarely.

I liken' young Keen,' said Daniel ; who,
apart from the difference of sex and age, was
of a coarser fibre. ' I wish my lad had took
example by him. Eh, dear me ! '

Father ! ' said Dinah, warningly and beseechingly.


VOL. ir. K

Eh, dear me ! ' Daniel said again. It was
little, but it was enough, and the two women's
eyes brimmed over behind their veils.

Ethel, by special invitation, dined with
Daniel and Dinah that day ; and it need hardly
be said that, after this reminder of their trouble,
the table was quiet and the meal a sad one.
It was easy to recover composure, but anything
like vivacity would have seemed a crime and
most unnatural, and not one of the three had
the heart to be commonplace. So they ate in
sadness and without appetite ; and in a little
while Daniel went upstairs for his nap.

Sing me something, dear,' said Dinah ;
and Ethel sat down at the piano and sang
hymns, until the elder woman put her arm
about the singer's neck, and sliding suddenly
down, knelt at her feet, and dropped her head
into Ethel's lap.

Hush, hush ! ' said Ethel, taking Dinah's
head in both hands. ' What is it, dear ? what
is it?'

Oh,' cried Dinah, ' I've been a wicked
woman all my life : a wicked, false, deceiving
woman ! '

Nonsense, dear ! ' said Ethel decisively.
Then more gently, ' You mustn't talk so.'
Then more gently still, ' What is it ? '

How can I tell you ? ' wept Dinah. ' Oh,
my dear, it was all my wicked, wicked fault ashe
went wrong — as he was tempted.'

Why, how could that be ? ' asked Ethel,
with soothing incredulity.

'Oh! If I'd ha' told the truth from the
beginning, if I'd had the courage to face the
neighbours an' take my shame, he'd ha' had
his rights — he'd ha' had his rights — I know he
would ! ' •

Ethel recalled the words which had fallen
upon her fainting ears on the day of George's
committal. ' The child I bore ! ' Had she not
dreamed or misheard them, after all ? Was
this thing true of Dinah ? — of Dinah, amongst
all women in the world !

Dinah ! ' she said, forcing the other's face
upwards, and looking at her with an almost
fierce anxiety ; ' tell me what you mean, this
minute.'

He was my child ! ' said Dinah. ' My

mother passed him off as hers, but he was mine.
An' I've gone through life with a lie i' my hand,
an' now it's found me out — it's found me out.'

Ethel sat sternly amazed, and had nothing
to say for a while. Dinah, thinking herself
scorned, and wholly feeling that she deserved
it, shrank slowly away and wept anew, holding
her face in both hands.

And this was Dinah ? thought Ethel ; this
was the woman. she had so loved and pitied.
For a second or two the thought was very
nearly as terrible as anything she had yet endured.
But as Dinah shrank away from her,
the younger woman, with a sudden passionate
impulse, cast herself upon her knees and
snatched the sinner to her breast, and their
tears mingled as they clung together, and Ethel
rocked her to and fro as if Dinah had been a
child.

• I don't care ! ' her heart cried out, ' I will
love hei. Whatever she has done, I will love
her and hold to her.' The girl's heart ached
anew with sudden pity.

Then, as they knelt there, Dinah told her

story ; and it came out that the sinner was no
sinner, after all. But when the tale was told,
Ethel asked in amazement,

But why, dear — ivy shouldn't the neighbours
have known ? '

I'd lost my lines, darling,' said poor innocent
Dinah.

You silly woman ! ' cried Ethel ; ' what difference
could that make P '

'You don't understand,' persisted Dinah.
My wedding' lines.'

Yes, yes,' said Ethel with tender impatience.
What difference could it make ? You could
have got another copy from the church where
you were married. The copy would be quite
as good. You could get one now. You are a
lawfully married woman, and you need never,
never be ashamed.'

I could get my lines now ? ' asked Dinah,
with a face of wonder and dismay.

Of course you could,' cried the other.

At Waston Church ? '
Of course you could.'

Oh, my dear, if I'd only ha' snowed it ! *

And Dinali wept afresh. ' If he'd had his
rights, he'd never ha' been tempted. Oh what
a wicked, wicked foolish woman I have been 1
Ethel, my dear, forgive me for talking' about
him, because I know it hurts your heart as bad
as it does mine. But, darn', when his time's
up, what is he to do ? Oh dear, oh dear ! He
is my child, for all he's been so wicked. 1 bore
him, an' I nursed him, an' I used to suckle him
on the sly at first, as long as ever I dared.
What will he do when he comes out ? What
can he do ? Can I get his rights for him ?
Could I get enough to keep him and send him
away out o' the country an' let him have a
chance to be a good man again ? Oh, could
I, could I, darling' ? '

In the passion of this entreaty she fawned on
Ethel and caressed her with imploring hands.

Yes,' said Ethel boldly ; ' I am sure you
could. Whatever would have come to your
husband is lawfully yours.'

An' nobody 'd think,' asked Dinah brokenly,
I wasn't an honest woman ? '

Nobody ! ' Ethel answered again boldly.

She scorned and hated young George now as
well as ever she had loved him, for she had
large capacities in that direction, and the one
villain she had known had brought them into
play. But though she believed that she would
not have lifted a finger in his behalf, she could
understand his mother's fears and longings, and
her heart went with them. He was a scoundrel,
but justice was justice ; and even if he shared
in the advantages of it, Dinah ought to have her
right. ' And did Mr. Bushell know this before
the trial?' she asked after a time spent in
soothing Dinah.

Yes. I went to him an' told him, but he
pretended to misbelieve me. I went to the
court o' purpose to tell the magistrate, an' I
should ha' done it if George hadn't '

There she stopped, and Ethel kissed her with
chilly lips.

I'm sure he didn't really misbehave me,'
said Dinah. ' I could see he didn't. But he's
a hard man, my dear, and he was afraid of
losing' his money.' She paused again, and hung
her head when she continued. ' He miscalled me

very bad, my dear. He said he wouldn't
believe a word o' my tale, and lie told me ' —
her voice faltered lower as she repeated old
George's words of righteous anger — 'that I
ought to ha' had my legs in the stocks for
bringing' such a story to him.'

He dared to say that ! ' cried Ethel, indignantly.
' Get your certificate at once, and
take every penny of your husband's money
from him.'

'If I could only get enough ! ' returned
Dinah dejectedly. ' You know, it's his rights,
after all, and what belongs to him belongs to
him whether he's been good or bad.' Ethel
made no answer. Young George was a terrible
theme for either of the women, but in Dinah's
case conscience was at work. It is worth
notice that what are called the torments of
conscience assail the best and leave the worst
untouched.

Dinah found herself so pressed that she
determined upon duty at any hazard. It was
hard, after hiding so long, to make the revelation
she was bound to make. But she had

sacrificed herself all along, and she was bound
to go on sacrificing herself to the end.

Will you come with me tomorrow,' she
whispered to Ethel, ' if I go to look for it ? '

Yes,' said Ethel, with an air of resolution.


So next day the two women practised a
deceit on Daniel and Mrs. Donne, and under
wicked cover of a pretended visit to the market
town they took train towards their old home,
and, reaching Waston Church after a four
hours' journey, sought the vicar and made
application for a copy of the certificate. The
vicar despatched a messenger for the sexton,
and that humble official conducted them to the
church. His department appeared to be looking
up, and he scented perpetual heir-money
in this new craze for certificate-hunting. The
sexton was one of those people with whom
single instances make habits. Two swallows
furnished ample evidence of summer.

The dusty old register was brought out
again, and the entries for Whit-Sunday in the
year eighteen hundred and fifty revealed the

fact that thirty or forty couples had been
united in Waston Church on that day, but the
names of Joseph Bushell and Dinah Banks were
not amongst them. Dinah and Ethel looked
at each other in blank dismay.

Is this the only register you keep ? ' asked
Dinah, beginning to think that Ethel had been
almost as ignorant as herself.

Yes, ma'am,' said the sexton. ' That's the
only one as is kep' here.'

Ethel, with a certain feeling of dizzy discomfiture,
was turning over the half-dozen
entries, rather to hide her own looks of dismay
and to get time to think, than with a hope of
finding anything. Suddenly she gave a sharp
little cry.

Dinah ! Look here ! '

Dinah came and saw nothing, but Ethel
strained the pages open, and there, between
the thud and forth entries for that Whitsunday,
lay the root of the missing leaf. The
eyes of the two searchers met with instantaneous
recognition of the truth.

Ethel turned lawyer in a second.

'I suppose,' she said to the sexton, 'that
very few people come to ask enquiries of this
kind?'

'Not many, ma'am,' returned the sexton,
with a tinge of sorrow. He suspected nothing,
supposing the cry ' Look here ! ' meant no more
than the discovery of what his visitors required.

How many do you get in a year, now ? *
she asked.

Well, ma'am, returned the sexton, ' I've
been here seven years, an' you an' this lady is
the second parties as has been here.'

Oh, indeed ! ' said she. ' Has nobody
been here since Mr. Bush ell came ? '

I don't know the party, ma'am,' returned
the sexton, ' not by name.'

He would be here, I fancy, about six
months ago,' said Ethel. Dinah was looking
on at this with a scared face, but Ethel was
smiling and gracious, and the sexton thought
her quite a nice young lady. Her manner was
one of sweetened commonplace, and the man
did not dream that she cared a copper to find
out anything.

Oh, no, ma'am,' said the sexton, * not near
as long as that. Only a few weeks back,
ma'am ? '

And he didn't give you his name ? '

No, ma am.'

It was sure to be Mr. Bush ell, darling,'
with a warning pinch, Dinah still looking scared.
Wasn't it ? '

It must have been,' said Dinah, in a frightened
voice.

What was the gentleman like ? ' asked
Ethel, in a casual way.

Why, he was a stoutish elderly party,
ma'am,' returned the sexton ; ' pretty tall an'
stout, with grey whiskers ; dressed in black
clothes, ma'am.'

Yes,' said Ethel graciously. ' Thank you.'
The sexton touched his forelock again and
again at her gratuity and her smile. ' Good-day,'
she said sweetly.

Good-day, ma'am,' said the sexton. ' Good-day,
my lady ; ' and away they went to the
sunny road, leaving the sexton to lock up the
despoiled register and close the church.

My dear,' said Dinah, clinging to Ethel's
arm, and speaking half hysterically, ' he's stole
it to rob him of his rights.'

To rob you,' returned Ethel quietly. ' Let
us go back and think over what is to be done.'
Then decisively, ' We must see a lawyer.'

If young George had only played his cards
in his defence with an indiscretion less pronounced,
and had never made that unfortunate
deposit of the stolen notes, Ethel would have
believed in him all through. It was only the
memory of these things which prevented the
revival of faith ; and even as matters stood,
she began to believe in an indefinite way
that the younger scoundrel had been trapped
into being wicked by the elder. To hate sin
and love the sinner is a Christian maxim, but
Ethel coupled a detestation of the sinner with
her loathing of the sin even while she confessed
to herself that the mother's right must be respected.
And the mother's right was clearly
the right to care for her child to the end, and todo
what she could to fence him round from harm
and to shield him from temptation. And Ethel

could bear less to think of him as sunk into
hopeless degradation and compelled to crime,
than to think of him as being unreservedly
and perhaps softened in that way
to repentance. Her feelings and her conscience
therefore went one way. ' Do good to them
that despitefully use you' was a text which
gave warranty enough for conscience, and her
heart was wholly with Dinah, the full sadness
of whose history she had so lately begun to
comprehend.

The two conspiratresses salved their consciences
that day by a brief halt at the market
town, during which they made reckless purchases
to account for their lengthened absence.

«
They reached home dog-tired, Dinah quite

broken by this latest difficulty, and Ethel roused
to an almost heroic resolution. It is perhaps
needful to explain, if only for the sake of a
hasty reader who will not imagine more than
he can help, how it came about that Dinah had
at last confessed her secret. Whilst her mother
lived there had been somebody to share it
with, and the burden was divided. From that

time until lier introduction to Ethel, Dinah
had had but the merest casual everyday acquaintances
; and if George had prospered, she
would have been content to carry her secret
to the end. But when the young fellow went
so completely to the bad, and when the mother
began to reflect upon his future, the weight
became too dreadful, and a part of it must at
any risk be thrown away. And apart from
that, Dinah was desperate and at bay, facing
circumstance with a tragic and heart-broken
heroism of which only women are capable.
The psychology of the case is simple. Her
own sin of secresy in respect to the marriage
had resulted in her child's sin of dishonesty.
You and I would not put it so, but it was inevitable
that Dinah should fasten the two things
together in that way. Her sin had led to sin,
and she must make atonement. So the poor
thing confessed, as the first step, to one she
loved, and whom she had helped to injure.
What Ethel could not achieve she did. She
hated the sin, but she loved the sinner still.
He had gone in her arms as a baby, she had

kissed the rosy dimpled feet now so pierced
with the thorns of evil ways. He was her child
after all, though he Averse a thousand times
wicked ; and even now she would have borne
his punishment fer him, and have rejoiced todo
it. Foolish, but like a netherland perhaps
not altogether to be condemned or lightly
spoken of.

CHAPTEE XX.

Dinah,' said Ethel next morning, * did you
ever ask Mr. Keen to tea ? '

No,' said Dinah, listlessly.

Will you write and ask him ? '

Why, dear ? '

I want to meet him.'

Why, it was only o' Sunday last,' said
Dinah, * you wished he wouldn't speak to us.'

Did I?' asked Miss Donne, disingenuously.
*Well, I want particularly to see him now,
dear. Will you ask me to tea tomorrow and
ask him to come also. Ask two or three of
the people whom you know from the church,
and have a little party.'

Ethel ! ' said Dinah, reproachfully.

My darling,' returned Ethel with an air
of determination, ' we cannot stay at the point
we have reached. We must go on. That

VOL. II. L

wicked man must be punisliecl for stealing the
certificate, and you must have what belongs to
you. Until we know what to do, we can do
nothing.'

But how will given' a party help us to find
out ivliat to do ? ' asked Dinah.

I will put a supposititious case to Mr.
Keen,' said Ethel, losing a little of her colour as
she spoke — 'you find things like it in novels,
clear — and he will never for a moment guess
that I am offering him a real case. You don't
want your secret to be made the common talk
of the country, and we nest manage it by ourselves.
If we consulted a lawyer, you would
have to tell him everything, and that would be
terrible. You know what those stupid men
do. They get things into newspapers, and
make everybody talk about them. Now, when
we know what is the right course to take, we
can do whatever must be done quite quietly.'

But if you punish Mr. Bush ell, people will
have to know,' objected Dinah.

Not if you only punish him by frightening
him and taking your money from him. I

believe they liaug people for stealing from a
church register. I am sure I have read that
somewhere. And you don't want to do that.'

'Not for everything' in the world,' cried Dinah.

If you go to a lawyer,' said Ethel,
confident in her superior knowledge, ' I am
afraid they would hang him if they found him
guilty. Of course he knows that, and when we
know what to do we can frighten him, and
make him give up everything he has of yours.
It is right that you should have it. Let me
sprite the notes of invitation. Shall we ask Miss
Wade ? " Miss Banks presents her compliments
to Miss Wade, and will be pleased to see her at
tea to-morrow (Wednesday) afternoon at five
o'clock." Shall we ask Mr. Gimble the organist
at Shareham ? " Miss Banks present?, &c."
Now to Mr. Keen.'

Dinah acquiesced in this programme with
fear and trembling. Three young ladies and
three young gentlemen were invited. Ethel
promised to bring her mother, and the purchases
from the market town were investigated. Most
of them appeared to have been made with a

L 2

view to this stroke of policy, now that the
policy was revealed, and Dinah meekly and
timidly submitted to Miss Donne's overwhelming
generalship. On the morrow, with fluttering
hearts, the conspiratresses met again, and shortly
afterwards the guests began to arrive. The
Eeverend Walter Boyper, curate at St. Stephen
the Martyr's ; Miss Boyper, sister of the foregoing
; Mr. Gimble, the ' arrant duffer ' who
before Miss Donne's time had played the organ
at the Martyr's ; Miss Wade, an elderly young
lady of some private means, known to be a
devout attendant at the services of the Martyr,
and suspected of setting her cap at the bleating
curate. All these came, but no John Keen.
Mr. Keen was waited for and came not. Tea
was served and finished and taken away. The
curate sang —

"What the bee is to the floweret
When he seeks for honey dew,

"What the bird is to the bower,
That, my love, I'd be to you.

Miss Wade was understood to accept this asa
delicate attention. Mr. Gimble, who was

popularly accused of a hopeless passion for
Miss Boyper, sang ' The Heart Bowed Down
Miss Boyper in musical response declared that
she would marry her own lad, her own lad, her
own lad ; that she would marry her own lad, for
true of heart was she. Ethel sang two or three
ballads, and Mrs. Donne with stiff country
dignity sat with her hands crossed and her toes
together, and was deliberately uncomfortable.
No John Keen, and no word from him. Daniel,
who was getting more frail every day, went to
bed early ; and the guests, taking this as a
signal, began to leave. The summer dusk had
settled into summer night, and Ethel had but
lingered for a word or two of hope and
encouragement to Dinah, when a rapid step
came along the otherwise silent street, and
paused before the door. Then the bell rang,
and Dinah went herself to answer it.

Is Miss Banks within ? *

John Keen at last.

Come in, Mr. Keen,' said Dinah tremulously
; and John entered, fluent in apology.

I have been away to Borton, Miss Banks,'

said John, ' to a two-days' cricket match, and
only found your note on my return ten minutes
since. I ran up to say how very sorry I was to
lose the opportunity your kind invitation gave
me. I hope you have had a pleasant evening.'

Quite a nice evening, thank you,' said
Dinah, leading the way to the parlour. John
with repeated excuses followed, and became on
a sudden dumb at the sight of Miss Donne.
That deceptive young woman arose with a smile,
and shook hands with him. This was delicious,
but so embarrassing, all things considered, as to
be scarcely bearable. He half recovered his
voice in a while and murmured, ' Came to
apologise and explain ; sorry to miss the
pleasure ; trust to have another opportunity ; '
and then, being again routed, said ' Good-night,'
and turned to fly.

Ethel cast an appealing glance at Dinah.

Pray don't think of going' yet, Mr. Keen.'
And she took his hat away and handed him a
chair. John sat down in a miserable elysium,
and Ethel began to talk to him. l^Irs. Donne
had some time since put a shawl over her

head and walked into her own house next door,
tln'ouc^h the wicket-cate which connected the
two back gardens ; and the guests having departed,
John and Ethel and Dinah were alone.
Dinah took no share in the conversation, but
sat and listened with mingled expectation and
fear.

By the way, Mr. Keen,' said Ethel rather
abruptly, ' I want to make an appeal to your
legal knowledge.'

Yes,' said John.

You read quite unbelievable things in
books sometimes — in novels, you know — and
the critics often laugh at books for the false
ideas the writers have about law. Now, I
want to know what would really be the punishment
for stealing a certificate of marriage from
a church register.'

Well,' said John, ' I dare say a judge
would make it depend very much upon the
issues involved. I should fancy the punishment
wouldn't in any case go under a couple of
years, and it might under aggravated circumstances
run up to twelve, fifteen, twenty.'

So much ? ' asked Ethel with outward innocence.
' They wouldn't hang him ? '

Oh dear, no returned John.

The two women felt horribly guilty, and
one looked it. Ethel carried on her scheme
with an excellence of mendacity for which
nobody would have given her credit.

And now, how would anybody really go
about, in real life, to find a certificate that had
been stolen ? '

John was delighted to be questioned upon a
topic of this sort.

That depends,' he answered, * on the date
of the marriage. Nowadays, a man would be
simply an ass for his trouble if he stole a church
certificate of marriage.'

Why ? ' asked Ethel almost too eagerly.

'Because,' said John, 'all the registrars'
records are preserved at Somerset House.
Suppose, now, that I wanted to prove a marriage,
and some clumsy swindler stole the certificate,
all I should have to do would be to go up to
London, to Somerset House, and pay for a
certificated copy of the register there kept.'

That depends, you say, on the date of the
marriage ? ' asked Ethel, as calmly as she could
calmly enough for John to see nothing, since
he looked for nothing, but with enough disturbance
to be seen by Dinah, who watched for
it. Dinah's heart was well-nigh failing her.

Well,' said John reflectively, any such
crime would be quite futile if it attempted to hide
a marriage which had taken place within the
last thirty years. ' I'm not certain that even
earlier than that it might not be trouble wasted,
but of the thirty years at least I am quite sure.*

Ethel looked across at Dinah, and that
glance completed what the journey and the
discovery of Monday, the suspense of Tuesday,
and the disappointment of Wednesday had
began and carried on. Dinah broke out crying.
Ethel was by her side in an instant with
consoling arms about her. John looked on
helpless and astonished.

Don't, dear, don't ! Hush ! hush ! hush ! '

Oh my dear,' wept Dinah, ' no blessing '11
ever rest on anything' got at i' that way. Oh
my dear, it isn't right. I don't blame you, my

dear, because I led you into it. You, as never
spoke a word as wasn't true till now, an' me
to lead you into such wicked make-believing' ! '

Hush ! hush ! ' implored the exposed conspirators.


John was more helpless and more astonished
than before.

What good,' sobbed Dinah, ' has ever come
of my wicked hiding' of the truth ? What good
has ever come of it ? '

Control yourself,' whispered Ethel.

My dear,' said Dinah, struggling to speak
calmly, with indifferent success, ' it's been
grown' on my mind for years an' years. It
was wicked to hide it from Joe's father an'
mother, an' it was wicked to hide it from mine.
It's been a sin all along, an' now it's found me
out. But I'll own the truth now, an' bear the
blame, an' everybody shall know what a wicked
woman I've been.'

John was more and more wonder-stricken.

You a wicked woman, you suffering
angel ! ' cried Ethel, folding Dinah's head to her
bosom, and swaying it to and fro.

I have been a wicked woman all along, *
protested Dinah. ' But I'll lead nobody else
into wickedness again. I'll tell the truth and
bear the blame. Mr. Keen,' she said, lifting
her tear-stained face from Ethel's bosom, ' I'll
tell you everything, an' then you shall advise
me for the best.'

Not now,' said John, recovering himself a
little. 'Whatever you may have to tell me,
Miss Banks, tell me at some future time, when
you are less agitated and more mistress of
yourself. I would very much rather ' — he went
on in answer to the expression of her face — ' I
would very much rather not hear it now, whatever
it may be. I should feel that your confidence
had been surprised. Let me go away
now, and if you see fit, send for me in the
morning. If not,' he added rather vaguely,
let us forget all about it.'

Dinah would have laid hands upon him,
and have told her story there and then, but
Ethel held her firmly.

'Mr. Keen is quite right,' said Ethel; and
John, with those approving words in his ears,

made off. He was naturally miicli bewildered,
although he, quite as strongly as Ethel, repudiated
Dinah's self-accusations ; and he slept
none the more soundly for the curious scene
he had witnessed.

Dinah after his departure exhibited an
altogether new phase of character. She turned
sullen and declined to listen to reason.

Til do what's right,' she said. ' Nothing'
shall change me.'

But, dear,' urged Ethel, ' we can get a copy
of your marriage lines from Somerset House,
now that we know they are there ; and we can
write to Mr. Bush ell, or go to see him, and tell
him what we know, and frighten him into
doing justice.'

I'll do what's right,' Dinah sullenly declared.
' Nothing' shall change me.'

By all means do what your conscience tells
you,' said Ethel. ' But it is surely not a matter
of conscience with you to tell your private
affairs to Mr. Keen.'

'I'll do what's right,' repeated Dinah.
Nothing' shall change me.'

After this third declaration Ethel forbore
to press her. Dinah, after all these years of
self-repression, was in a mood to cry her secret
from the house-tops, and she lay awake all
night determining more and more to visit
lawyer Keen in the morning and tell him
everything. Whatever was done now should
be done openly — so she resolved. Merely to
shield herself, she had let her child go without
the knowledge of a mother's love ; and she
thought now, with what unavailing longing
only a mother may rightly tell, how differently
all might have gone had she been brave enough
to own him as her own. She could see now
that almost anybody could have enlightened her
ignorance about her marriage lines ; and if she
could but have used a mother's love and
authority with the lad, she felt sure that he
would have grown up to be a different creature.
And since secresy and deceit had brought
things to their present evil pass, she would
have no more of them. Let everything henceforth
be open and above-board. Much as she
felt herself shrink from public notice, she would

rather that the whole world knew her story
and talked about her, than have another secret
to weigh her down, or endure the weight of the
old one any longer.

Before Dinah could start with any hope of
finding John Keen awake, Ethel came in again,
and found the resolve of last eight as strong as
ever. All attempts to dissuade her were
trouble thrown away, and in due time Dinah
put on her things and went out, leaving Ethel
behind, dissatisfied. Perhaps the dissatisfaction
found root partly in the fact that John Keen
was to be the recipient of Dinah's long-cherished
secret, and that Ethel's own deceitful manoeuvre
was to be exposed to him. She did not care
greatly for Mr. Keen's opinion, but she did not
wish anybody to know that she could have
found it in her nature to finesse and make pretences
in that treacherous lay. What would
Mr. Keen think of her ? How could he fail to
see her as she was ? — a sly and cat-like creature
who had every right to be ashamed of
herself. Oh, how she had deceived him — pretending
that she had merely taken a case from

a novel, while she questioned him with an air
of indifference on an affair of such moment.
And suppose — lawyers took fees for advising
people — suppose he should fancy that she had
attempted to defraud him of his fee !

When John came to hear the story, he
Alas naturally a good deal astonished ; but
though he was a young man, he was accustomed
to curious stories in the exercise of his
profession, and he accepted this one with little
sign of amazement. Dinah laid the case
before him with trembling, and expected to
be rebuked for all her wickedness ; but the
young lawyer faced it with a business air, and
seemed to have no great belief in her surprising
wickedness. He made notes clear and succinct
in form, and bowed his visitor away with a
manner somewhat preoccupied.

I will let you know something about the
matter in a day or two,' said John. ' It is not
at all a complex case to deal with.'

Dinah felt as if she had been speaking to
a statue, he took everything in so cool a way ;
but when she had gone, the lawyer threw his

professional bearing aside, and travelled up
and down his room, pausing every now and
then with some exclamation of astonishment.
He could afford to be astonished now that his
new client was not looking at him ; but he
would not waste time about it.

'I shall have lots of time to wonder,* he
said, 'as I go up to town.' With that reflection
he began to pack ; and on consulting a
time-table, found himself in easy time for the
London train. The railway station being at
no great distance from his house, he himself
carried his small portmanteau thither, and was
whirled away to London ; arriving in time to
drive straight to Somerset House, and secure a
copy of the certificate of Dinah's marriage.
With this document in his possession he drove
to Euston, booked for Birmingham, and before
nightfall was settled in the smoky Midland
capital. Thence he wrote to Dinah informing
her of his first success, and in the morning he
made for the country church in which the
marriage had been solemnised. The sexton
by this time was accustomed to the request

Join had to proffer. It was getting to be
quite a usual and ordinary thing for strangers
to turn up and pay him for a sight of the
parish register. He received his new visitor,
therefore, with cain satisfaction, and ushered
him into the Httle vestry with the air of a man
who is about his common business. John, with
the certificated copy before him, turned to the
missing page, and found there the root of the
stolen leaf

Who cut out this page ? ' he asked quietly
but suddenly, and fixed a penetrating eye upon
the sexton.

Eh ? ' said that small official. If he where
guilty of any share in the matter, he was a cool
hand indeed.

A page has been stolen from this register,*
said John, tapping at the book. ' It has been
stolen within the last six or seven months.' It
was easy to guess that. Whilst the marriage
remained a secret, nobody was likely to steal
the entry. ' Who has had access to this book
since then ? '

Who's seen the book, d'ye mean ? ' asked

VOL. IT. M

the sexton. 'Why, two ladies as was sere
t'other day, and a gentleman as was here some
weeks back.'

Should you know the gentleman again ? '

Surely I should ! ' the man answered.

Are you busy ? Can you come with me
if I pay you for your trouble — for an hour
or two ? ' John demanded.

I ain't particular busy,' said the sexton.
But what might you want me to do ? '

'Wait a moment. Now try to remember
very clearly. Did you leave that gentleman
alone at all ? '

No, I didn't said the sexton stoutly. He
saw a chance of being got into trouble, and he
made his denial with considerable emphasis.
To John Keen's perception he rather overdue it.

What, not to get a glass of beer ? ' asked
John, at a venture. He put that query to the
sexton with a look so knowing that the poor
man quailed, and capitulated surlily.

Well, there ain't no harm in that, as far
as I know.'

We shall know more about that by-and-by,'

said John. ' Don't try to deceive me any
more Beneath the legal glance the sexton
cowered. ' How long did you leave him alone
with this register ? '

Why, not above a matter o' five minutes.'

You left a stranger alone with a church
register for five minutes, did you ? ' asked John
severely. ' Now, I am a lawyer, and unless
you behave yourself to my satisfaction you
may get into trouble. Are you busy to-day? '

No, sir ; not particular.'

Then, lock these things up and come with
me.'

The man obeyed, but paused at the church
porch to ask —

What might you want me to do, sir ? '

I want to see if you can recognise the man
whom you left alone with the register.'

I should know him among ten thousand,'
said the sexton.

I suppose,' said John, ' you know how to
hold your tongue when it is to your own interest
! ' The sexton nodded gloomily. ' Then,
until I authorise you to speak, be quiet, will

you ? ' The man nodded gloomily again, and
it was clear that he was perturbed. ' I shall
pay you for your time and trouble said John,
relenting a little. ' And now come along ! '

And John set out with the sexton beside
him in pursuit of old George Bushell.

CHAPTER XXI.

When dawn began to broaden through the
binds of the double-bedded room, old George,
looking woefully worn and lined, sat up on his
elbow and looked across at his protege, who
slumbered peacefully with his mouth open and
his eyelids and nose still a little inflamed by
the heat and salt of tears. Christian forgiveness
and benevolence never wore a guise in
which they looked less like themselves than
they did in old George's case that morning.
With his fluffy grey hair tumbled loose about
his head, his eyes shrunken small, his wooden
features puckered into corners and sharp edges,
and his flannel night-gown opened at his throat,
he sat and surveyed the object of his charity
and shook his fist at him. The young man
being evidently very sound asleep, the elder
arose and began to dress with great quiet,

having it in his mind to avoid a renewal of
the terror of last night. He dared not go
upon his knees again —-just yet. In a month
or two, perhaps, when Ms wickedness was less
fresh upon him, he might try to pray, and
might fairly expect to be excused, but not
then. So he prowled about like an ugly and
dishevelled ghost on tiptoe, and having washed
and dressed with extreme quiet, he put on
his hat, unlocked the bedroom door, and went
out silently. Then, having closed the door
behind him, he began to knock at it loudly
with his knuckles, and hearing a sleepy * Who's
there ? ' he entered again.

Good morning, sir,' said the other criminal
shainefacedly.

Good morning', Mr. Banks,' answered the
old man. ' It's time you was stirring', ain't it ? '

The youngster obediently got" out of bed
and dressed, fumbling unwontedly with his
garments, and confused by the wooden watchfulness
of his companion. When, in accordance
with his ovm resolves and his promise
to the chaplain, he knelt by his bedside, his

"sought were so full of a comfortless ap
preciatioii of the fact that Mr. Bushell was
staring hard at the back of his head, that he
did not even cast about for a form of words,
but, having knelt for a decent space, arose and
completed his toilet.

It was yet barely five o'clock, and there
was nobody but themselves stirring in the
hotel. Mr. Bushell finding time as heavy on
his hands now as when he had lain tossing and
tumbling in bed, naturally began to think the
late estate better than the present, and regretted
that he had awakened his charge so
soon. He sat down by the window and pretended
to read at a big hotel Bible which he
took from the top of the chest of drawers,
casting furtive glances at young George now
and again. The released one sat constrainedly
coins nothing;, and wishing himself with all
his soul at sea, and safely out of his benefactor's
society. He had had no idea that Mr. Bushell
was a man of such rigid religious practice ashe
seemed to be, but his beliefs in that gentleman
were undergoing, or had indeed undergone,

a remarkable change. Furtively lie
looked across at him and wondered. Where
was there in his face a sign of that amazing
tenderness he had shown ? There was no such
sign visible to the furtive watcher's eyes. If
there had been in young George's mind the
faintest ground for any suspicion of an interested
motive, he would have leapt to that
standing-place at once, and have refused to
take any other, however plausible it might
appear. But there was nothing of the kind,
and he was lost in amazement and gratitude,
though, in the midst of all his thankfulness, he
was growing more and more resolved about the
Melbourne question. He pretended to himself
to hold that question open, but he knew
that he was quite decided, and that the expectant
Really and Tulson would look for him
in vain. Yet he was full of good resolves, and
was profoundly convinced of the necessity
which lay upon him to be honest in the future.
He was going to be more than honest — he
was going to be devout, but this one crooked
step was necessary to enable him to enter upon

the straight path. Then, being once within it,
he would never, never, never deviate any more.
Thus benefactor and protege sat together,
each busily engaged in the hoodwinking of his
own soul, until the sound of footsteps in the
corridors, the calling of voices and clapping
of doors, bespoke the house alive again, and
they adjourned to their private sitting-room
together. There the old man ordered breakfast,
and by way of maintaining his character,
murmured a clumsy grace above it, which
sounded, even in the repentant gaol-bird's ears,
as though it were habitual. Breakfast, for
which neither of the two had any great appetite,
being finished, Mr. Bushell called for his
bill and paid* it, saw young George into a four-wheeler,
and his luggage placed on top, and himself
entering, was driven to the docks. On the
way thither he drew out a fattish pocket-books
which young George had twice or thrice seen
before, and producing from it a bundle of
bank-notes, he began to thumb them carefully
over, whilst the watcher's heart beat with a
fluttering expectancy.

Count them,' said the Christian benefactor,
handing the bundle across.

Young George with nervous fingers told
them off. Twenty ten-pound Bank of England
notes. It was an amazing relief to have them in
his hands, though, curious as it may^eem, it was
only then that the fear occurred to him that his benevolent
rescuer might have remitted the money
to Messrs. Nally and Tulson of Melbourne.

What do you make 'em ? ' asked Mr.
Bushell.

Two hundred pounds, sir,' said the other
tremblingly.

Now don't let's have no moor snivelling', '
said old George, rather brutally. He was
afraid of being noticed, and at the bare thought
of encountering anybody known to him he
shivered, and a premonition of that dreadful
swimming in the head came back upon him.
Put 'em in your pocket,' he continued.
Their's what I promised you, an' now you're
provided for.'

Young George obeyed like a man in a
dream. Even yet he was not used to it.

Now, ]vir. Banks,' said the old man, leaning
forward and drawling loudly as the foiir-
wheeler jolted along the cobbled pavement of
the street, ' I want you to understand as that
ain't the last help you'll receive from me if you
deserve it. The world's afore you, an' I look
to you to do well. You'll be wise to give all
your past acquaintance in this country the go-by,
and remind nobody of your crime. If I
hear good accounts of you, I shall do my best
to influence your father to overlook your
offence, but you'll be wise not to attempt to
write to him until I advise you. D'ye hear ? '

I will follow your advice, sir, in all things,'
said young George faintly.

Their's nobody,' so the old man cogitated,
as he's likely to write to, left i' the place
Daniel had gone, no man seemed to know
whither. John Keen had faded out of sight.
So had Ethel and Dinah. And young George
was certainly ignorant of their whereabouts ? —
It might be as well to test that.

'You know as Mr. Banks has sold the
Saracen, don't you? ' he asked.

I didn't know it, sir,' answered George
with downcast eyes.

Him an' your — sister ' — he half boggled at
the word, he had ' mother ' so strongly in his
mind — ' an' the folks at Quarrymoor, have all
gone away together, nobody knows wheel.
But — ' (remembering that this scarcely agreed
with his ]promise) ' I shall try to find your
father, and persuade him to soften to you a bit,
if I hear good news of you.'

The young criminal began to think. If his
father cut him off, and that was likely enough,
Dinah would inherit whatever there was.
Dinah had always been very fond of him, and
was not the sort of woman to cheat a brother
of his rights. He did her so much credit, and
he began to see that there was hope, after all.
She would not be influenced by Mr. Bushell,
and it would be easy to find her. She could not
have gone away and have left no trace behind.

The released convict did not weep anymore,
and his companion, though he was relieved
by that fact, had upon lira a contradictory
feeling that the young man ought to

have been moved anew by his last evidence of
trust and kindness. The noise and bustle of
the docks were a great trial to Mr. Bushell, for
he saw in every stranger a possible acquaintance,
and the danger of detection seemed imminent
and terrible. He rushed young George aboard
ship, therefore, and went down with him into
the saloon, where he began to feel feverish
with suspense and fear.

I'll mek efforts,' he whispered behind his
hand, ' to find out wheel your folks are, an*
their's no manner of doubt I shall ha' found
'em afore you get to Melbourne.'

It will be a long search, else,* said young
George to himself drearily and with an inside
"reproach.

If you want to write to them, send through
me, an' I'll find means to for ard your cause.'

Thank you,' said young George choking.
Good-bye, old England ! ' he thought. He
was going away a rescued felon, disgraced and
disowned, and only (of all his friends) the man
he had injured clung to him.

The steward approached.

Better get ashore, now, sir.'

'Good-bye,' said the old scoundrel, 'an'
God bless you ! You'll be met at Melbourne.
They'll know the ship you're coming by. I
shall send 'em a message by wire.'

Good-bye, sir,' said the younger rogue.

Old George gave a limp hand to him, and
hurried ashore. Dreading to be recognised,
yet afraid to leave until he had seen the last of
his protege lest even now some stroke of fortune
should prevent him from going, he lingered on
the quay. At eleven o'clock to the minute, the
splendid ocean-going steamer began to move ;
slowly and heavily she forged ahead ; and old
George, seeing his young namesake now on
deck, ran alongside puffing and panting until
she cleared the dock-gate and steamed majestically
down the river. There was a great crowd
about him, and hats and handkerchiefs were
waving on the steamer and on the quay, and
land and water alike sent out a cheer. Hurrah
and good-bye from quay to deck and deck to
quay. Hurrah ! Good-bye ! Hurrah ! In a
while all went quiet, and old George walked

away a free man. The certificate destroyed,
the wicked Eightful Heir for ever banished, what
had he to fear ? He put that problem to himself
a Indeed times, and he always answered,
Nothing,' though there was a dread within him
which would not be appeased.

What is their for me to be afraid on ? ' he
asked himself, and always answered, ' Nothing

But the voice inside said, ' Everything. The
whole world-wide chapter of accident. Any
and every little, wind of chance. Me — your
conscience ! '

And as poor old George's evil fortune Avould
have it, the very next Sunday morning, when
he went to church, the incumbent at Trinity
preached from this text :

What shall it profit a man if he gain the
whole world and lose his own soul ? '

So Joe Bushell's son was following — with a
difference — in the steps of his father, and leaving
England and hearts he had made sore
behind him. He was free — free to go where he
would, and carve out his fortune with the
lessons of the past behind him. Whatever

came to pass in the future, lie would at least be
honest. He went down from the saloon deck
to the saloon, and asked for a small bottle of
champagne, for he felt badly shaken, and
needed a reviver. After that he was not going
to be extravagant, but he could afford 
of delight and self-gratulation
after all he had endured. The wine, at his
request, was poured into a big soda-water glass,
and as he held it and watched the beaded
bubbles winking at the brim, his heart sent up
a bubble or two of joy to his eyes ; and as he
sipped, things looked dim and blurred to him,
seen through those thin tears. He sipped his
wine and thought. It was necessary to escape
at Queenstown if he meant to evade Messrs.
Nally and Tulson at all. Very well — but was
it necessary to sacrifice his luggage? That
would be a pity, and would be ungrateful into
the bargain. The two portmanteaus were in
his state-room, but the big chest was on deck
waiting to be lowered into the hold. He
finished his wine, walked out, and looked at it.
So far, it bore no distinguishing mark — for in

the riisli and hurry of his preparations, the
painting of name or initials had been forgotten.
George thought that fortunate. 'George
Banks' was not a good name to go through
the world with, after what had happened to
the holder of it ; and though he was registered
under that title in the list of the ship's passengers,
he decided that this was the last time he
would bear it. Whilst he stood looking dreamily
at the chest and cogitating, a sailor precipitated
his thoughts into sudden form for action by
preparing to hale away the trunk towards the
open hold.

Steady, there ! ' said George. ' Don't stow
that away yet.'

Ain't this for Melbourne ? ' asked the man.

I am not yet certain,' young George said,
rehearsing this final necessary lie of his upon
the seaman before trying it elsewhere. ' I am
booked for Melbourne, but until I reach Queenstown
I cannot tell whether or not I shall have
to forfeit my passage-money.'

That's rather awkward, sir, ain't it ? ' said
the man good-humouredly.

VOL. II. N

Yes,' said George condescendingly. ' How
long do we stay at Queenstown ? '

Eight hours, sir,' the man answered.

Dear me I ' said George ; ' no more than
that ? I may have to stay in Queenstown for
the next ship. You had better leave it out.'

I'll put it in last thing, sir,' said the man,
so that you can get at it easy. But there's no
name on it.'

In a pocket of the suit of clothes he wore —
the very suit in which he had been arrested —
George had a card-case, and producing this, he
drew forth a card and saw the man tack it onto
the chest. Then he marched away to find
the captain. They were in the Irish Channel
by this time, and having lovely weather and
smooth water. The first bustle of departure
was over, and the captain was at leisure to
advise a first-class passenger.

Just before leaving my hotel to come
aboard this morning,' said George, ' I received
a telegram instructing me to call at Queenstown,
and in a certain eventuality to remain
there to await new instructions. In case I have

to stay and to follow by the next vessel, will it
be competent for me to recover my passage-money
or any part of it ? '

The company's agent will see about that at
Queenstown,' said the captain. ' But,' with suave
politeness, ' I trust you won't have to leave us

I trust not,' said young George. ' How
long do we stay at Queenstown ? '

Eight hours, sir,' said the captain.

That,' said George, carrying on his comedy,
and doing his best to make it look lifelike, ' is
a very short time.'

We move along, nowadays,' said the captain
with a cheerful laugh.

You do indeed,' said George. ' This is a
very fine boat.'

Anything else I can tell you ? ' asked the
captain, finding himself summoned by his first
officer.

nothing, thank you,' answered George,
and so they parted mutually satisfied. ' A freeman
again ! a free man again ! ' the champagne
sang through all his pulses. A free man again,
and not a soul to suspect him here. The lie

X 2

had prospered. It sounded natural enough —
why should it not prosper ? Who was to guess
that he broke a compact with the only friend he
had in all the world, by not going on to Melbourne
? He talked to his fellow-passengers
about it — what a nuisance it was, this probability
of his having to stay in Queenstown — and
they took an interest in the case, and had arguments
about the probabilities and non-probabilities
of a recovery of the passage-money,
until George himself began to be interested in
the matter too, and half-behaved his own tale.
He grew almost pathetic in his laments to a
middle-aged lady with whom he fell into talk
on the saloon-deck.

I had hoped,' he said, ' to pick up health
a little on the voyage. I have been longing
for the sea for a month past.'

That was true enough, but the middle-aged
lady would have been a little astonished if she
had had shown to her the where and when of
the longing.

'You do not enjoy good healths' said the
lady.

'I do when I get it,' said George with
chastened gaiety, and the lady was so complaisant
as to smile. ' But I am only newly
recovered from a fever. Had to shave my head,'
said George with quite a fine-gentleman manner,
and strap me down. Imagined all sorts of
horrors, don't you know, and was really dreadfully
ill.'

With suchlike scraps of imaginative autobiography
did our youthful traveller beguile
time and the middle-aged lady until the call to
dinner. He already felt himself again, and if
his gaiety was sometimes a little tremulous, what
else could be looked for in a man so paled —
a poor fellow only recently recovered from a
most prostrating illness ? He declared on deck
again in the evening that the sea-air was already
doing him a world of good after the close confinement
of his — sick room ; and probably it
was. His regrets about the sacrifice of the
voyage, even for a week or two, were almost
affecting. He had such a longing for the sea,
and had so looked forward to it, and now, poor
thing, his hopes were dashed. It is certain

that if lie had contmuecl the voyage as he
began it, the ladies at least would have petted
him prodigiously. A well-set broad-shouldered
young fellow, with a handsome figure and a face
by no means unhandsome, a pleasant tenor
voice, a look and tone approaching* to the look
and tone of culture — a released felon, yes, but
once Ethel Donne's chosen husband. Quite a
taking young person, and almost in hysteric
spirits just then, as might have been predicted
of him, considering the circumstances.

He went ashore at Queenstown, and came
back with regret painted visibly upon his pale
and interesting countenance. His instructions
had not arrived, and he was compelled to stay
behind until the despatch of the next vessel.
People quite condoled with him, and said
good-bye ' in the friendliest and most regretful
manner, considering the brevity of their acquaintance
with him. His luggage was put
ashore, and the captain gave him instructions
as to the best way of going about to obtain a
consideration for his lost passage-money in the
next vessel of the same line, and even wrote a

note introducing him to the Queenstown agent
of the firm. The young gentleman tore his
card from the top of his trunk and extracted
the tacks. He had his portmanteaus painted
with the initials ^ G. C./ and his big chest
painted ' Mr. George Cheston.' He got cards
engraved and printed with the name of Mr.
George Chest, and he shipped himself by
the very earliest vessel to New York. And
then, when he stood upon the vessel's deck and
passed from Queenstown Harbour, he felt himself
doubly free — free of the old crime and
folly, free of the name associated with it. The
past was wiped out.

Ban, ban, Caliban !

Have a new name and ba a new man !

On the Atlantic voyage he made new friends
under his new name — the name was the best
he could think of — gentlemanly, but not too
selfish, and represented, as we know, by an
honourable family in his own district. His hair
grew, his moustache was rapidly approaching
its normal fascinating droop and curl, and his
cheeks had recovered their colour, before the

ship's look-out sighted Sandy Hook. And how
about his spiritual condition? Well, perhaps
that was not altogether satisfactory even to the
young man himself. A certain number of lies
were necessary, of course. Or rather, let us
deal gently with him, and call them — not lies,
but — visionary circumstances called into being
by the exigencies of the case, and employed
necessarily as a background and plot to stand
on for the new figure which now filled the
place of George Banks in the scheme of the
world. Grant that, under the conditions in
which he was placed, a strict veracity would
have been quixotic, and that a little new colour
was excusable. The mischief is that when a
man turns artist in that direction, he loses his
sense of strict necessity, and seldom pauses at
its boundaries. In brief, young George's lies
were more than equal to the circumstances,
and, led away by his new name, he had gone
so far as to ask one or two people to give
him a look-up at his brother's place in Staffordshire
— Sir Sydney's place — ^WorJey Hall.
Dear old Syd ' — so the good-natured youngster

was satisfied to call him — would be delighted to
see any friend who had known him in America.

This newly-discovered relationship with a
wealthy English baronet made it necessary, if
only for the dignity of the family, that the
traveller should put up at a first-rate hotel.
One or two of his travelling comrades were
doing the same thing, and advised him to follow
in their steps. He was knocking about for his
health, and thought of taking a run across the
prairies, and seeing if he couldn't get picked up
in that way. And so, fairly afloat on the pleasant
rapids once again, he glided along quite
gaily, with his laugh the briefest crackle of
thorns, poor fool !

New York, like other places, is pleasant to
men who have leisure and money. Our young
friend engaged much in games of mingled chance
and skill, and prospered so amazingly with the
not very skilful but moneyed young Englishmen
who had voyaged out with him, that his funds
increased for the first month in spite of extravagances.
But when at length they continued
their travels and left him behind, he did begin

to think seriously about making a living. So
many people already knew him in New York,
that he could not possibly descend from his
social pedestal in that city, and he felt that he
must go farther afield. But whilst he considered
what it would be best to do, he hung
on at the big hotel, where he amused himself
by night at pool on an English table, and pretty
generally won at it. One evening, before the
usual party had assembled, a grave-looking man
of middle age strolled in, and asked for a drink
and a cigar. Being provided, the grave-looking
man sat down and smoked peacefully, and now
and then sipped at his liquor through a straw.
George had seen the new-comer at table dotes
but had never exchanged a word with him.
The middle-aged man sat at one end of the
table, and George at the other, and until now
they had never encountered.

It's a fine evening, sir,' said George in his
pleasant tenor voice, as he lounged resplendent
on a settee facing the grave man's seat.'

That is so, sir,' said the grave man.

I suppose,' said the friendly George, ' that

your climate is pretty severe here in the wintertime.'


Well, yes,' returned the other. ' That is so.'

George offered one or two other remarks
of the same sort, and the two were gliding into
talk, when some of the habitual pool-players
came in and the game began. The grave man
sat awhile and watched, until he had finished
his drink and smoked oil his cigar, when he
arose and went away. Next afternoon George
came across him again as he was leaning over
the balcony with a cigar in his mouth and his
hat tilted forward.

'Beautiful day,' said the young English
aristocrat. The grave stranger tilted his hat
back, nodded seriously at George, flicked the
ash from the end of his cigar, and went on
smoking. By-and-by he spoke.

You are not long away from England, I
believe, sir ? '

Not quite half a year,' said George, That
day seven weeks he had said farewell to the
Chaplain. But there was no need to tell the
stranger that.

I hope,' said the other with a singular mild
gravity of face and voice, 'that you won't
charge me with eaves-dropping, but I heard
you talking last night with those young gentlemen
at the billiard-table. You mentioned a
place at home that I used to know very well
when I was a lad.'

Indeed ? ' said young George carelessly.
He fluttered a little at this, and flourished a
scented handkerchief about his face to hide a
momentary confusion. ' You are an Englishman
? '

Yes,' said the stranger with the same mild
gravity ; ' a South Stafford man.'

Indeed ? ' said George again, and blew his
nose with violence.

Excuse me for asking,' said the stranger,
but I've been away now for a quarter of a
century or thereabouts, and that's a long time.
Has Worley Hall changed hands ? '

Oh dear, no,' answered George.

Excuse me for asking, again,' pursued the
stranger, 'but I heard you speaking of your
place, Worley Hall in Staffordshire, and I

didn't catch your name. Since the old place is
in the same hands, I needn't ask it. You're a
Cheston, of course.' There the stranger's mild
gravity gave way to a smile, and the smile was
pleasant and inviting.

My name is Cheston,' said young George,
with an approach to hauteur in his voice and
manner.

So Sydney got married, did he ? ' said the
stranger.

Sir Sydney is my brother,' replied young
George.

Eh .^ ' said the stranger with a new smile.
Did the old boy marry again ? I beg your
pardon. But I should have thought you too
old for that.'

My father remarried comparatively late in
life,' said George, feeling very ill at ease under
this examination.

Xow, I should have thought,' resumed his
companion, regarding him with candid friendly
eyes, ' that you were six and twenty at the
least. And you can't be more than three-and-twenty,
at that rate.'

That is my age,' said George stiffly. Had
he been the man he pretended to be, there was
nothing in the stranger's manner at which he
would or could have taken offence. Of course
there are ways and ways of asking questions,
but the grave man's way was provocative of
trust, genial and frank, though always tinged,
even when he smiled, with a look which no man
ever wore whose life had not been crossed by
some very considerable trouble.

I dare say,' said the stranger, ' that you've
heard Sir Sydney speak of me. He was
the last man I shook hands with on leaving
England. Allow me to offer you my card.
My name's Bush ell — Joseph Bushell. Your
brother and I were at school together, and were
great chums years ago.'

George perforce took the proffered card
and produced one of his own. ' Mr. George
Cheston, Worley Hal], Staffordshire.' He felt
singularly ill at ease, and would rather not have
met an old friend of his brother's, though of
course it was difficult to say so.

Thank you,' said the newly-made acquaintance

with tranquil heartiness, ' thank you. It
does a man good to meet a face that comes out
of the old country. You won't mind my asking
you — will you ? — come and dine with me tonight,
quietly. We'll go to Delmonico's and
have a room to ourselves, and a good dinner
and a good talk. Will you ? '

Thanks said the impostor, ' I am pledged
for to-night.'

Well, say tomorrow night. Come to my
room now, if you've nothing else to do, and have
a smoke and a talk and a glass of wine. Do ! '

There was nothing else to be done, and the
long-lost Joe haled off his old chum's brother
to his own sitting-room and there began to
pump him. But first the impostor, desperately,
feeling it needful to clear the ground a little for
himself and to carry the thing off with a good
air, put one or two questions to him.

I think,' he said, crossing his legs negligently,
and speaking with a society drawl, very
well managed on the whole, ' that I have heard
Syd speak of you. You're a nephew of old
George Bush ell's, the great mine proprietor ? '

He wasn't a great mine proprietor iu my
time,' said Joe, gravely smiling again, ' but he
was my uncle. He's alive ? '

Oh yes,' said George, somewhat recovering
his ease. ' I know the old boy well.'

His brother Joe, my father,' asked Joe —
is he alive ? '

'No,' returned George, rather startled by
this question. ' I've heard he died before I
was born. You didn't know that ? '

'No,' said the other gravely. 'I didn't
know it.'

You bolted ? ' said George, growing more
and more inured to the situation.

Yes,' said Joe Bushell. ' I ran away from
home.'

You lost a pot of money by it,' said George
easily. ' I've heard Syd say that your governor
left your Uncle George a quarter of a million.'

So much as that ? ' said Joe quietly.
Well, I'm glad Uncle George had it. He was
a good old fellow was Uncle George.' He
sighed inwardly and murmured to himself,
Poor old dad ! '

Ell ? ' said George.

Nothing. There are great changes in the
place, I suppose ? '

Great changes. Town Hall and Free
Library in the High Street. Two or three new
banks. The place grows, sir, rapidly.'

Ah ! No doubt — no doubt. Great
chancres — seat chases.'

His drooping head crushed his brown beard
upon his breast, and his voice fell again into a
murmur as he repeated, ' Great changes.'

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XXII.

There was a memory somewhere for Joe
Bushell in the face of his new acquaintance
Mr. George Cheston, his old companion's
younger brother — a suggestion which touched
him curiously, perplexing him the while. It
was not a memory of Cheston, for the young
man was not like Cheston in the least. Was

it ? no— Hang it! What was it? They

could never have met before, of com-se, and
yet Joe was certain that he had seen the face
somewhere. The fact was that the young
scoundrel was unworthily like his mother, and
that it was his resemblance to her which at
once attracted and puzzled his father. Joe
felt, but could not trace, the likeness — could
not identify it with anybody ; but his heart
warmed to the youngster.

*And so,' he said, 'my uncle's a great
mine-owner, is he ? '

One of the richest men in the district,' said
George, pulling away at one of his host's cigars.
This is good tobacco.' He was not going to
be over-interested in the conversation, having a
general notion that a gentleman born and bred
ought to be really interested in nothing which
does not concern himself. Not to admire was
all the art he knew.

I suppose he's still a bachelor ? '

Quite superior to feminine blandishments,
I fancy,' said George. ' One couldn't fancy
him making love under any sort of circumstances.'


No,' said Joe, lingering on the word. ' I
suppose not. Has everybody quite given me
up for dead on that side the water, do you
know ? ' He put this question with a short
laugh which had no merriment in it, whatever
other feeling might be there.

Well,' answered George, casting himself
luxuriously back in his chair and blowing a
lazy cloud, ' I'm almost inclined to think they
have. Syd has, I know.'

It was an odd old place, as I remember its


said Joe after a little pause. ' There used to
be a lot of queer buildings about — gables and
dormer windows, and so on. I suppose that's
all changed ? '

'Yes,' said George, his mind recurring to
the Saracen, of whose altered condition he was
of course unconscious. His companion struck
his very thought.

Their notions of an hotel in that part of
the world used to be primitive,' said Joe,
approaching the ground he wanted to get at
with great caution. ' I suppose they haven't
got to this pitch even yet ? ' — waving his hand
abroad as he spoke.

Not exactly,' George replied.

The Saracen's Head was one of the oldest
of those places in my time,' said Joe with
apparent carelessness. ' Do you know it ?

George was blowing his nose again, and
looked up a little flushed, perhaps by the
violence of the exertion.

I beg pardon ? '

The Saracen's Head,' said Joe again, ' Is
it standing yet ? '

The Saracen ? ' said George with counterfeited
reverie. ' The Saracen ? '

Joe helped him to the topographical lines,
and added :

Old Sir Sydney, your father, always pulled
up there for a glass of home-brewed when he
rode over to the petty sessions, Wednesdays
and Saturdays.'

Ah, yes ! I know it now,' said George with
a creditably realistic air of sudden remembrance.
' Syd calls there sometimes in the
same way. Yes, yes. I know it. Of course.'
Before he had become altogether too grand a
young man, he had indeed served with his own
hands that glass of home-brewed the genial
baronet loved. He bore the unexpected turn
the talk had taken with great sang-froid after
the first inquiry had been made and answered.

I used to be there a good deal myself,'
said Joe, ' when I was a youngster. They had
the first billiard-table there that ever was
introduced to that part of the world. Old
Banks used to keep it — Daniel Banks. 1
suppose he's gone, too ? '

I fancy not,' said George. ' I believe lie
has retired. Some family troubles, I think I
heard.'

He felt his coolness under fire to be creditable
to him.

Family troubles ? ' asked Joe.

I don't know, I'm sure,' George answered,
yawning a little, as if the conversation bored
him. But his companion was casting about in
his mind how to get further, and the by-play
was lost upon him.

When I was a lad,' said Joe, hardening his
heart for the leap, ' I used to think old Daniel's
daughter the prettiest girl in the world. You
don't know whom she married, do you ? '

Married ? ' said George, thrown off his
guard for a second.

Yes,' answered the other — ' married.'

You don't mean ? Confound it —

what's the woman's name ? — Dinah ? '

Yes, I do,' returned Joe. ' She married
two or three-and-twenty years ago.'

I'll be hanged if she did,' said George with
well-bred languor. ' She's an old maid.'

What ? ' cried Joe. Then moderating his
voice and manner, ' My uncle wrote and told
me she was married, if I'm not mistaken.'

'Wasn't true, if he did,' said George,
yawning outright this time.

I think you must be mistaken,' said Joe.
You must be.'

Sure I'm not,' said George, casting his arms
abroad and gaping lazily. ^

But you scarcely remembered the house
just now.P '

I remember it well enough now you call
it to mind,' said George, recovering from his
yawn. ' Syd used to call there, and he was a
little sweet on Dinah, too, in a quiet sort of
way. No harm in it, you know, for I believe
she's always been a deuced good sort of woman
religious, you know ; that sort of thing.' And
the aristocratic youth yawned again, stretching
forth his arms with luxurious abandonment.
Perhaps, had his companion had a reason for
watching, he might have caught a tone of
tremor in the young rascal's voice, and have
thought the want of interest overdone.

Not married ! ' said Joe in a bewildered
way. ' Then, why the deuce should my uncle
George have said she was ? '

Made a mistake, I suppose,' said George,
more languid and fine-gentlemanlike than ever.
Tell you what makes me so sure about it.
Day I left Liverpool I met old Bushell — beg
your pardon — mean your uncle, you know —
and he told me, just as a scrap of local news,
that old Banks had retired, and that he and
Miss Banks — what's her name? — Dinah — had
gone away and left the place.'

Joe had his reasons for the disguise of
emotion too. George, in his cunning, thought
he saw it all. Joe Bushell and his sister would
be contemporaries, and it was quite likely that
young Joe had been in love with her. His
uncle George had probably invented the fiction
of the marriage to prevent young Joe from
making a bad match. It was not easy for him
to think that a man so forgiving and generous
could have told the lie in order to secure a
hold of young Joe's fortune. It came easy
to him to think ill of people as a rule, but he

could not vet think any great evil of his benefactor.


And as for Joe himself, he had cherished
in his own heart so long the memory of Uncle
George's ancient kindness that it was almost
impossible to begin a new estimate of the
man at this time of day. When he was
friendless and alone, his uncle had sought him
out and had given him a hundred pounds —
a generous gift — a sum not lightly to be given
away by anybody to a mere runaway young
rascal of a nephew. Why should he have
written to tell him that Dinah Banks had
married ?

She was a very pretty girl,' said Joe, clearing
his throat with difficulty. 'I should have
thought she'd have had heaps of chances.'

Ye-es/ returned George, rising and strolling
to a window. ' I think I've heard so. But
she's a middle-aged woman now, you know, and
rather out of my line. I'm told Syd used rather
to rave about her.'

Faithful to him ! Faithful to him after all,
through aU these heavy years ! It would have

gone ill with errant Joe indeed, if there had
been no heart-ache in the thought.

It is worth noticing, as a fact in the constitution
of humanity at large, that whether I do
my duty well or ill, or howsoever you do yours
or leave it undone, we both alike expect the
outer world to do its duty, to be faithful in the
performance of its promises, and long-suffering
in respect to injury, and generally to act up to
a standard which we acknowledge to be beyond
our reach. And, in like fashion, Joe had felt
keenly at the time that Dinah might have
waited a little longer. He acknowledged his
own un worthiness with constant and deep abasement,
but she might have been worthier. Out of
that mood he had grown into excuses for her and
explanations, and he had found a self-tormenting
pleasure in thinking of her as a married woman
with her family growing up about her, and himself
a mere dim remembrance in her mind.

It had not all gone smoothly with the
callow-whiskered, blue-eyed, foolish lad who left
home in so undignified and unmanly a fashion
so many years ago.

Nobody ever told a story completely — not
even a Chinese dramatist. For on every
character in any story the influences of a
whole world are pouring every day, and the
most painstaking of chroniclers must let some
things be taken for granted. I cannot do more
than indicate young Joe's history here. If you
want to appreciate the outer changes which
have come upon him, think of the alterations
time has worked on any young fellow you may
have known five-ands twenty years ago. A
lithe fissure town set, a flo-ure but an eagle's
talon in thee waist grown portly, a smooth face
Used and bearded, an open brow corrugated,
locks crisp and curled and golden turned to a
darker shade and streaked with grey, and
may-be a little thinned at top. Young Joe,
whose folly was the fount and origin of this
history, has lost his claim to the distinctive
epithet, and is young no more.

T have never sought to conceal from
myself my opinion of his conduct. He acted
badly, criminally, like a fool. I know it. I
admit it. But there are men whose failings

we condone, whose follies we forgive, whose
sins we pity. Let young Joe be of them. He
was sinned against as well as sinning. Women
who read this story will probably be hard
upon him in their judgments — and will be
right, beyond a doubt. But many years of
poverty and remorse are in themselves hard
judgment on a man ; and he had suffered, as
you and I do when we misbehave ourselves ;
and had grown wiser and better, as you and I
sometimes fail to do.

The long-errant Joe has sinned and suffered
and amended. Let us take him back again to
friendship.

The story of a wild, disjointed life such ashe
had lived most of these years of absence
would hardly pay for telling here. He did a
hundred things for a living, and throve at none
of them, until he got a berth aboard a river
steamer, and after two or three years became
a river pilot. Then, having in the course of
two or three years more saved a little money,
he went westward to Frisco, and there started
a store in partnership with another Englishman,

who was loud at morning, noon, and night
with denunciations of American dishonesty.
When they had made a nice Httle pile together,
this true-born Briton took advantage of a fever
from which his partner suffered, and realising
the whole estate, he fled, taking ship for Hongkong,
and leaving Joe behind him, friendless,
desirous with fever, and without one cent to
chink against another. At this terrible juncture
turned up a bearded ruffian, by name
MacKane, who, by way of giving his own life-history
the lie, nursed the stranger through his
fever, and saw him back to health again.
MacKane had money, and thought well to
invest it. He trusted Joe at sight, after the
curious manner of his kind, and the two started
a store on the old lines — Joe finding knowledge
of the business, and MacKane providing the
stock. The two throve amazingly in their
business, and went in for land-jobbing with
equal success. Then MacKane, who was a
noble fellow but a confirmed rowdy, fell sick
of a revolver bullet and died, bequeathing
everything to his partner. And so from small

things to big, and from big to bigger, progressed
Joe Busliell, and lie was now here in New York
to arrange the sale of a considerable property
in a western town on the great Pacific line ; a
man firmly established on a broad business
bottom, and highly respected by all who knew
liii — first for his dollars (dollars provide the
shortest cut to judgment), and next for his
sterling and blameless private character.

He had quite made up his mind to end his
days in the country of his adoption, and was
resigned to see England no more. But this
most strange news of Dinah put all his resolutions
out of joint. He could see now that he
was in reality a thousand times as criminal ashe
had thought himself, self-condemning as his
thoughts had always been. Not happy, not forgetful,
not married and comforted by the love
of children, but living to a cold and long-since
widowed middle age. Ah ! that made a difference.
He tried to picture her as she would be
after so long a space ; but could do nothing
but recall her as she said, ' No, Joe, no ; you
couldn't have the heart to leave me ! ' And

then again : ' Go, and God bless you, my own
dear, dear, ever dearest Joe ! ' And then
again : ' Will you let me keep my marriage
lines ? ' His last failure towards lier ! And
then the waving hand, the tear-soiled face, the
pretty figure in white muslin, and the demurely-coquettish
straw hat ! He heard and saw
again, though it was all so old and far away.

Meantime, as Joe sat unconsciously smoking,
with the voice of his youth's wife in his
ears and her form in his eyes, his visitor stood
at the window congratulating himself, in spite
of a faint conscientious qualm, on the success
of his assumption of his character. It was an
odd chance which had thrown him into the
company of a relative of his late employer's ;
but the association was not likely to last long,
and might be turned to some advantage while
it lasted. For Joe, though five and-twenty
years since a runaway from home, had now a
look of solid and settled prosperity, and his
being in this swell hotel at all argued him
fairly welhto-do. These Bushels had a knack
of making money ; and this one, so George

argued naturally enough, would scarcely have
spoken lightly of that lost quarter of a milton,
unless he himself had been well provided for.
When a man is able to say of so vast a sum,
'I am glad somebody else has it,' because
somebody else is a good fellow, it argues prosperity
on his own part.

Joe, emerging from his reflections, broke in
upon this reverie.

When do you think of going back to
England, Mr. Cheston ? '

Well, I am not at all decided,' said George,
turning round upon him. ' I've been thinking
of getting on for the prairies, or perhaps
of seeing what sport the Dominion has to
show.'

What do you say to a run across to San
Francisco ? ' asked Joe. ' I'm settled there,
and I'm thinking of taking a run over to the
old country after going home to set things
straight. Will you come across with me ?
You'll get a good view of the continent, and we
can make a stay here and there if you like.
I am not in any hurry, and I'm so pleased at

meeting a man from the old place that I shall
really take it as a favour if you'll come.'

Wliy, thank you said the impostor ;
you're very kind. I should like the journey
amazingly.' The magnitude of the hotel bill
had begun to frighten him. At the rate at
which he was going, his resources would not
last long.

So the thing was settled, and, whilst Joe
waited for the arrangement of his business in
Xew York, the two saw a good deal of each
other. The prosperous trader was free with
his money, and whatever they did together he
paid for — an arrangement which met George's
views to a hair, though he made a conventional-propriety
struggle in pretence of a desire to
disturb it now and then. When Joe had
known old Sir Sydney and his son, the family
had not been wealthy, and he liked the young
fellow none the less that he did not seem quite
reckless in his expenditure. A man who took
a liking for people readily, Joe soon bred a
fancy for his companion, and was never weary
of talking with him about the old place, and

VOL. II. p

the people he had known. He gave the young
man an insight into his own experiences, and
told him candidly of his first hard struggles in
the land of his adoption ; and he played, in
short, the part of guide, philosopher, and friend
to him.

They had known each other for a fortnight
or thereabouts, when Joe turned upon the
youngster and said :

Look here, Cheston. I can ask a favour
of your brother's brother, I know, and I am
going to do it.'

Certainly,' said young George, not quite in-comfort.
Was Bushell not so wellrto-do as he
had thought him ?

I've told you already that I have an idea
of running over to England. As you say,
everybody no doubt thinks me dead and done
for ; but I want to have a look at the old place,
and I don't want it to be talked about. You
needn't tell anybody that you met me here
when you go back again. You can tell Syd,
if you like ' — he had fallen into George's way
of speaking of his old friend — ' and I think it's

more than likely I shall call upon him. But
when a fellow's been away as long as I have,
there's a sort of shamefacedness about going
back again, and I'd rather that nobody knew
anything about it. I dare say it's a bit sentimental,
but you won't say anything about me,
will you ? '

Decidedly not, since you wish me not to,'
returned George.

I'm not in a — in a downright hurry,' Joe
continued, ' and I have a good many things to
see to before I can start.' He was curiously
reluctant to go back, and yet he felt that he
could not help himself. To return to Dinah
and offer her the fag-end of his life seemed base
and cruel. She thought him dead. Let her
think him so. It would be brutal to disturb
her peace again at this late hour. And, even
if he went at all, he longed for some companionship,
however slight, some living tie with
the home he had deserted. ' Do you think we
can manage to go back together ? '

In how long ? ' asked George.

Well, when you like, in reason,' Joe
p 2

answered. 'Say I shall be able to start in three
months' time : would that suit you ? '

Yes, I think so,' said George. It would
be easy to dodge the fellow at the finish, and
three months was a lift, certainly. If he could
only rely upon a part of it, it would be something.
' That will suit me very well.'

We could go to Syd together,' Joe suggested.


Yes, of course,' replied George, with an
inside vacuum at the fancy.

Matters being thus arranged, and Joe's
business being shortly afterwards prosperously
settled, they paid their bills — making a considerable
inroad on George's reserves — and
took the cars. They broke the journey here
and there, and made it last them three weeks
from start to finish. From the hour of leaving
New York, Joe took upon himself the part of
host, and insisted upon paying for everything.
George could scarcely disguise the shock to his
feelings which the bill at the great hotel
afforded ; and Joe, observing his discomfiture
at that moment, was resolute in not permitting

him to spend a dollar anywhere upon their joint
expenses. This was comfortable ; but, like
other conditions in life, George found that his
association with Mr. Joseph Bushell had its
drawbacks. Joe made him keep a diary of his
journey for Sir Sydney's perusal, and was
always badgering George to write to him, and
giving him messages, and pledging him to
pledge dear old Syd to secresy. And at last,
on reaching San Francisco, Joe took the matter
into his own hands.

I say, Cheston, about that letter you're
always promising to write to Syd. Do it now,
there's a good fellow. Come now, here's pen,
ink, and paper. We'll arrange what to say
about our meeting and about my going over to
England.'

'Leave a fellow alone a little while after
dinner,' said George.

I notice,' said Joe seriously, ' that you're
a dilatory fellow, Cheston. Now — I mean it
in a friendly way, I assure you — that's bad.
Procrastination is one of the worst habits a
young fellow can form. Come, now.'

He stood with a pen in one hand inviting
George to come forward, and after a moment's
pause secured obedience.

Here said George, taking the pen and
seating himself, ' tell a fellow what to say
He feigned a little touch of sulkiness to hide
his embarrassment.

Very well,' said Joe. ' Put down the
date and all that ; now, " My dear Syd," cr
"My dear Brother," or however you write to
him.'

" My dear old Syd," said George, sulkily
writing.

Very well. " My dear old Syd, — I have
the very strangest news to give you. I am
writing this letter under the roof of an old
schoolfellow and friend of yours, Joe BushelL
I found him out almost by accident in Jew
York. I told him that you had long since given
him up for dead and buried. He was awfully
glad to see a face from the old country, and
especially a brother of yours. He was immensely
surprised to learn who I was, and had no idea
that the governor had married a second time.

He has prospered very much out here, and
thinks of running over with me to England, so
that you must expect to see us both together.
You will remember the circumstances under
which he left home, and will understand what
I am now about to ask. Pray say nothing
about his projected visit. He is just coming
over to see old places and one old friend —
yourself. He does not intend to make himself
known to anybody else. He desires me to put
this to you with all needful strength, and of
course in saying that I have said more than
enough. He sends his most friendly regards.
I will advise you of the probable time of our
arrival." — All that down? '

Yes,' said George, ' it's all down.'

Very well. Now you can go on with your
own affairs.'

Oh, that's enough for a letter,' cried the
young man with an air of disgusted fatigue;
I hate letter writing.'

All right,' said Joe. ' Close up as soon as
you like.'

"'I am," ' murmured George, scrawling

away, ' " my dear old Syd, your affectionate
brother, — George." '

Here's an envelope ; address it,' said Joe,
almost hilarious in manner. He was thinking

o

of Dinah all the time, thinking with much
bitter self-upbraiding, and it needed some
bustle to keep his heart up.

" Sir Sydney Cheston, Bart," ' murmured
George, as he dashed off the address in a
sprawling and unclerkly hand, ' " Worley Hall,
Staffordshire, England." '

That's right,' said Joe, pulling at the bell.
Post that at once,' he said, handing the letter
to the maid who entered in answer to the
summons. ' And now,' he cried, throwing
himself into a chair and looking across at
George with a face of resolve, ' I'm bound to
go. I wanted to go, and I couldn't make
my mind up ; and now I've done it, because
a promise is a promise, aid the thing's
arrange.'

The actual writer of the letter was not
quite at ease, but he consoled himself with the
reflection that Sir Sydney Cheston's amazement

in Stafford shire could not greatly affect him in
the United States. George wasn't going back
to England, if he knew it. He sate half-listening
to his host's anticipations and plans,
half thinking out his own scheme for dropping
his host at the right point. He was fully made
up on that easily-decided question of going
back to England. The fear of recognition was
multiplied there a thousandfold ; here it was
minimised. And, besides that, America was
undoubtedly a better place to get on in than
England.

But, in spite of these excellent reasons for
avoiding England, he was doomed to go there ;
and a chain of events, which may be very
briefly summarised, dragged him thither with
a force beyond all his powers of resistance.
First link : — in the absence of his host at
business, young George went gambling. Second
link : — he lost, and was absolutely cleaned
out. Third : — he was compelled by Joe's
discovery to admit the truth. Fourth: — Joe
paid for his passage by the cars to New York,
and for this passage by the steamer to Liverpool

; and, detecting an extraordinary and
inexplicable desire on the young man's part to
cut and run. he watched him like a hen with
one chicken, and gave him no opportunity for
escape.

So they landed in Liverpool together ; and
behold, whilst Joe was looking after the
luggage, young George made a bolt with a
solitary portmanteau, which belonged not to
himself but to his host ; and Joe, to his
amazement and chagrin, was left to face Great
Britain alone. He was both mortified and
bewildered, for it did not vet occur to him
that his chance acquaintance was a pretender.
He decided at last that his old chum Cheston
kept a tight hand upon this younger brother,
and that the lad was afraid to face him after
his American extravagances.

But he must have thought poorly of me,'
said Joe, a little bitterly, ' to fancy that I
should split upon him.'

CHAPTER XXIII.

The terrible text ate deep into old George's
heart ; but remorse is not penitence, and he
suffered all the unholy pangs of the one, and
had none of the blessed pains of the other.
He was not even safe from detection ; and it
is possible that if he had been, the fires of
conscience would have burned less dreadfully.
He was getting to be old, and, what with his
troubles and advancing h^q, he bean to suffer
pains and disabilities which were hard to bear.
Eating and drinking used to be pleasant, and
were so no longer. To a stupid man like old
George it is hard to lose the pleasures of the
table ; much harder than for another who has
sources of enjoyment outside the range of the
coarser senses. He had been used to work
hard and to sleep soundly, and now work had
no relish and night no rest worth talking of.

Altogether, his road was thorny and full of
fears.

Things went on for two or three weeks in
pretty much the old fashion, when one day, ashe
sat alone in this private room, pipe in mouth,
staring at the fire, a knock came to the outer
door, and a minute later his, housekeeper
followed her own tap, and came in with a
visiting-card pinched between finger and thumb
in a corner of her apron.

A gentlemen to see you sir,' said Mrs.
Bullus.

Show him in,' said the old man, and took
the card uninterested. It fell from his
fingers as he read ' Mr. John Keen, Solicitor,
Wrethedale.'

He groped darkly on the floor to recover
it, and seemed to grope darkly in his own
mind to discover a meaning for it. John Keen
entered ; and the old man, still feeling blindly
for the card, looked up at him, with a face
reddened by stooping, and lack-lustre eyes.

Good day, Mr. Bushell,' said John, with
formal politeness.

George ceased his blind search for the card
and sat up, breathing somewhat thickly.

Good day, Mr. Keen. Take a cheer. To
what am I indebted ? *

I do not suppose you will find me a
welcome visitor, Mr. Bushell, when you know
my business. You may remember a statement
made to you with regard to the identity of
your late private secretary.'

Eh ? ' said old George. ' Say that again ! '

On the day on which you gave George
Banks into custody,' said John, slowly and
distinctly, ' you received a visit from the lady
who was supposed to be his sister.' Old George
said nothing, not having it in him to say anything
just then ; but he glared at his visitor
with dislike eyes, in which there was no speculation.
' She told you the real nature of the
relationship between them, and you professed
to disbelieve her.'

I said it was a pack o' lies,' said the miserable
old rascal, ' an' I say so now.'

Very well, Mr. Bushell,' said John, businesslike.
' I am a lawyer, as you know. I am

engaged by Mrs. Joseph Bushell to proceed
against you for the recovery of her rights, and
I am in a position to prove her clan. Here
said John, producing a pocket-book and leisurely
opening it, ' is a copy of the certificate of marriage
between your nephew Joseph and Miss
Dinah Banks, solemnised at Waston Church.
Whatever property your brother Joseph possessed
at his death was, in the absence of her
husband, legally hers, and is still legally hers.
There is no difficulty in the world as to the
completeness of the proof, and I should advise
you to make a judicious surrender.'

Oh ! ' said old George with a heavy jeer,
though his heart was muffled and his head was
whirhug, 'you'd advise me to mek a judicious
surrender, would you ? That ain't cool at all,
that ain't. Is it P Oh, dear me, no ! '

Mr. Bushell,' said John, copying a line from
poor dear Sir Eager's torturer-inches, ' perhaps
you would be surprised to hear that the original
certificate of the marriage has been stolen from
the register at Waston Church ? 'The old man's
jaw dropped ; he laid a hand on each arm of his

chair, and made as if to rise; but his limbs
refused to obey him, this face turned purple, and
the veins in his temple stood out like cords.
Excuse me for a moment,' said John, and,
rising, he opened the door. ' Come this way,'
he called to some one outside.

The sexton entered, twirling his hat in both
hands, and looking amazingly uncomfortable.

Is this the gentleman who came to Waston
Church a week or two ago, and asked to look
at the register of marriages ? '

That's the gentleman, sh,' said the sexton.

Is this the gentleman who gave you a shilling
to drink with ? — the gentleman whom you
left alone in the vestry whilst you went out to
get a pint of beer ? '

Yes, sir,' said the sexton ; ' that's the gentleman,
sir.'

It's a pack o' lies ! ' cried the wretched old
man, struggling to his feet. ' As sure as there's
a Heaven above us, I never set eyes o' the man
afore in all my born days. I'll tek my oath on
it.' A judgment? A sudden judgment from
the Heaven he had invoked so wickedly ? His

head swam round and round ; he felt with wandering
hands for a support, and found none ;
there were splashes of alternate ink and fire in
the silver mist which shut out everything about
him ; his muffled heart strove to beat as if the
struggle would burst it. But he was desperate
despite these fears. ' I swear it,' he stammered,
groping blindly. ' It's a pack o' lies ! '

He had only time once more to feel, with
an access of his pains and terrors, that he had
anew defied the threatened judgment, when
down he went with a crash, striking the back of
his head against the fender. John fell upon him,
dragged him on to the hearth rug, tore off his
stock, and, with one nervous effort, ripped his
shirt open from collar to waistband. The old
man had been drinking again ; and the lawyer,
seeing a carafe of water on the table, seized it,
and began vigorously to splash at George's face.

'Being the bell,' he said to the sexton. The
man, who was horrified at the result of this
identification of old George, fumbled at the
bell-pull for nearly half a minute before he could
command his trembling fingers, when he rang

i

s

such a peal as brought the housekeeper in with
a rush and an excited whirl of petticoats. ' Your
master has fallen down in a lit,' said John, still
dashing water into the unconscious face. ' Send
for a doctor, without a minute's loss of time.*

Mrs. Bullus rushed from the room, screaming
'Jane!' and, the maid appearing, despatched
her, with a flea in her ear. Jane fled weeping
and breathless, and by good hap being recognised
by the medical man was followed by him.
For what with breathlessness and the terror and
resentment inspired by the housekeeper's unprovoked
assault upon her, the maid was speechless.
The doctor appeared, somewhat winded, for he
was a man of rather pursy habit, and unused to
the display of pedestrian power.

Hilloo, Keen!' he gasped. 'You here?
What's the matter? ' He was kneeling by old
George's unconscious figure before the question
was answered.

I brought him very disturbing private news,'
said John, kneeling beside the surgeon and speaking
in a low tone, ' and he has had a fit over it.'

We must get him to bed,' said the surgeon ;

VOL. II. Q

and by his orders a sleet was procured and with
some difficulty got under old George's solidly
made frame. John Keen lifted at one side and
the sexton at the other. The surgeon took the
patient's head and the housekeeper his legs, and
in this order they stumbled up-stairs with him,
and laid him down. Then all but the surgeon
and the housekeeper waited without to know
the skilled man's verdict, and by-and-by it came.
Whether severe or slight the doctor was not yet
certain ; but there was concussion of the brain,
and old George would see to no business, howsoever
important, for a while to come.

I suppose I needn't tell you,' said John to
the sexton, ' that it will be a great deal wiser in
you to howl your tongue than to talk about these
things.'

I shan't say nothing,' replied the sexton.

John had no other reason for secrecy than
his desire to keep Dinah's name out of the public
mouth ; but his caution was not wasted on the
sexton, who was more than a little timid as to
the possible result of his own share in the matter.
When once the young lawyer had written to

Dinali, apprising her of Mr. Busliell's sudden
illness and its result of delay, lie found time hang
heavily on his hands. He had no desire to encounter
any of his old acquaintances just then,
so he went into Birmingham, and putting up at
an hotel there, awaited the doctor's decisive
opinion on the case. He blamed himself for the
precipitancy with Avhicli he had brought old
George to bay, and told himself that he might
much more reasonably have explained the evidence
to him. In short, like other people, he
felt wiser after the event than he had been before
it.

Two or three days went by, and the doctor
was not sanguine. Mr. Bushell had no relatives
to consult ; and the medical man, acting on his
own initiative, brought in a great physician from
the neighbouring great town. The physician
was no more sanguine than the surgeon ; and,
after lingering for a week, John Event back to
Wrethedale, leaving instructions with the surgeon
to wire to him in case of any decisive
alteration either way. Being arrived at home,
he hastened to inform Dinah of his return, and

a 2

she called upon him within an hour of her
receipt of his message. He laid her marriage
certificate in her hands, and explained the whole
result of his journey. Dinah turned pale and
shook a little as she read through the document,
but she did not say much.

It was a pity I didn't know o' this before,
Mr. Keen.' That was all.

'A great pity,' said John, commiserating all
her troubles. ' But there is no doubt of sour
legal title to the property, and no doubt that
you Avill get it.'

She took the certificate home and showed it
to Ethel, who kissed her for sole congratulation.
It was not easy for Ethel to congratulate Dinah
upon anything yet, though she read the mother's
heart and sympathised with her. The days went
on, and no decisive news came of old George's
state. John learned that he had recovered partial
consciousness, and that he seemed to have a
half memory of the fact that some trouble had
befallen lira. But out of this state, so the doctor's,
letters said, he had slipped back again into
complete oblivion, and it was, and would be fora

long time to come, impossible to rouse him to
the discussion of any affairs, howsoever important
they might be. The doctor's letters, indeed,
though cautiously expressed, seemed to lead to
the conclusion that old George would never
attend to business any more. In course of time
that view was partly disproved, but for the present
there was nothing to do but wait. The
criminal's sentence had more than half its time
to run, and before he could be freed it was ten
to one the matter would be decided in some way.

So on that side affairs necessarily stood over.
Far away in New York the released convict had
encountered his father, and had gone away to
San Francisco with him, and had returned to
England — against his will — ^wdth him, and had
finally deserted him at Liverpool before old
George was fit to be spoken to, or had clearly
recalled to mind the cause of the mischief which
had come upon him.

Never in his life had Joe Bushell felt so forlorn
as when he stood alone, after the lapse of
more than five-and-twenty years, on English
soil ; not even when for the first time the sense

of conscious loneliness descended on him aboard
ship. There were resolves in him then, and high
hope, and he was going, in spite of all failings and
follies behind him, to be a man, and to make a home
for Dinah. And how had he fulfilled the promise
? — how clung to the hope ? Bitter questions,
that brought sad answers in an echo — How ?

He had made a fortune ; not so much as he
had left behind, not a fourth part so much, perhaps,
yet still a fair handful of money : and of
what use was it to him ? He ought to have
known better than to believe in that story of
Dinah's marriage. He ou^iit to have returned
to England — he ought never to have left home —
he ought to have acted like a man, and not like
a cad and a coward.

There are few of us who have not played
the fool, few of us who have nothing to confess,
nothing of which to be absolved by devout penitence,
nothing to have scourged out of us by
human forgiveness. But there are not many of
us who for a quarter of a century have crushed
a heart that ought to have been happy. And
Joe was a good-hearted fellow, kindly and gentle,

always ready to do a kindness, and never,
in spite of youth's hot blood, willing to damage
anybody. He had begged pardon of the Reverend
Paul in his heart a thousand times, and of
his old chum Cheston. And as for Dinah, she had
been to him, notwithstanding her light forgetfulness,
something quite outside the sphere of
common things and common people. He had
never fallen in love again, and had lived apart
from her in such chastity as few men — very few —
have a right to boast of. There was some selfish
comfort there, perhaps. If he could get a sight
of her, only for a moment, and could breathe to
his own heart the words, ' I have been as faithful
all these years to your remembrance as you have
been to mine,' it midst have something of a balm
in it for the sore future which he saw before him.
But, look at it as he might, life seemed a poor
business. Tragedy, and folly, and commonplace
! Commonplace, folly, and tragedy !

So he stood like an alien on English ground,
and wished himself back in his Western home
again. Yet, being where he was, he must goon
and fulfil his purpose. He wrote from an

hotel in Liverpool that night to Cheston, saying
nothing yet of Master George's desertion of him,
and, without waiting for an answer, he started.

I have left you to fancy Sir Sydney Cheston's
sensations on reading the letter of his soi-disant
brother. Cheston's imagination, never very
vivid, left him helpless at this time, and he was
at first unable to conceive any possible circumstances
under which it could have been written.

'What the dickens — ? ' he began, and stopped
again, feeling — like the famous American — unequal
to the occasion. ' Who the deuce ? '

he began again, and again he failed. ' Why in

the name of ! ' There was nothing big

enough to conjure with in a case like this. It
was the most bewildering and amazing thing he
had ever met with in his lifetime. ' My dear old
Syd ! ' and ' your affectionate brother, George ! '
The audacity of the confounded thing ! Whoever
heard the like ? And all on a sudden he
leaped at something very like the truth. Was
Joe Bushell alive after all, and had he met some
impostor out there who was trading on a good
name, and who professed to be a brother of his ?

Weeks went by, and lie heard no more of the
matter until he received Joe's letter, when he
instantly and impetuously wired to Liverpool
and followed his telegram. But his old friend
had started before the telegram was despatched,
and the two had a day at cross purposes. The
returned exile, leaving his traps at a Birmingham
hotel, drove over to his friend's house, and
learned from the butler that Sir Sydney had gone
to Liverpool. Cheston about the same time
found that Joe had left his hotel and had taken
train for Birmingham. There was nothing for
either of them but to turn back again, Joe leaving
his temporary address in the butler's hands.

Everything leads to something, and the
baronet's impetuous rush hastened matters in
relation to this history. John Keen was staying
in the same hotel with the returned wanderer.
Neither of them had ever seen the other, and
neither had the thinnest ghost of an idea of the
other's importance to him. John had received
intelligence of a revival in old George, and was
bent on taking advantage of it, if that were
possible.

The two were alone, at the fall of a dismal
and rainy evening, seated at extreme distance
from each other in a big coffee-room, when in
burst a man who glared round in the dusk of
the place and went out again.

I beg pardon,' said the stranger, rising and
advancing a step towards John Keen. ' Can
you tell me if that was Sir Sydney Cheston ? '

It was,' said John ; and the stranger made
a dash after the baronet.

Cheston ! ' he shouted down the corridor.

Back came the impetuous Cheston.

Who's that ? '

Don't you know me ? ' asked the wanderer.

Let's have a look at you,' cried the baronet,
dragging him to a window. ' By gad, it is you,
after all ! Bushell, old man, I'm glad to see you.
Confound it all, I am glad. Why, Joe, old
boy, we'd given you up for dead this five-and-twenty
years. Where have you sprung from ?
Got a private room ? I should have known you
anywhere ! — anywhere ! You're deuced little
changed — deuced little. Have you dined?
Where's the bell ? Well, I am glad to see you.'

Shaking hands the while, Cheston shouted
this welcome at top of this cheery voice. Joe's
eyes were a Httle dim and his throat was husky.

It does a fellow's heart good,' said Joe, ' to
see an old face again. How are you ? '

All this was in John Keen's hearing, and the
young lawyer sat like one petrified. Here, then,
was the wicked wanderer back again ! John
had his theories, like other people ; and, from
the moment when Dinah had completed her
story, he had made up his mind about errant
Joe. There was no doubt in his mind that
young George got the black patch in his heart
from his father. A better woman than Dinah,
John confessed that he had never known. He
would and could believe no ill of her ; but he
had a great faith in breed, and he believed that
out of an honest father and mother came honest
children, and no other. Thus, Dinah being in
John's eyes a paragon of womanly virtues, and
her son being an arrant rascal, it was necessary
to suppose that the lad inherited his villany from
this father. And the father had undoubtedly
been a bad lot. He had left his wife widowed

all this time, had never written to her, never
troubled his head about her, and, after inveigling
her into a secret marriage to begin with, he had
with low cunning carried away her marriage
lines, and left her to bear the burden of a most
undeserved and bitter shame.

So John Keen, when the first shock of amazement
was over, made no ado about the matter,
but, rising in cold wrath, he walked quietly along
the room and tapped Joe on the shoulder.

Forgive me. Sir Sydney, for interrupting
this meeting with an old friend.'

Hilloo, Keen ! ' said Cheston. ' Didn't see
you. How are you ? See you in an hour or
two. I'm engaged just now.'

One moment,' said John. ' Are you,' turning
to Joe, ' the son of Joseph Bushell and the
nephew of George Bushell ? '

'I am,' said Joe, speaking somewhat hardly,
since he recognised hostility in the questioner's
tone.

You ran away from home in eight en-fifty ? '

I did, ' said Joe. ' What then ? '

I have something for your private ear, sir,

Avliich I will trouble you to listen to at your
earliest convenience.'

Cheston stared from one to the other.

May I ask you who you are, and what your
business is ? ' inquired Joe, taking measure of his
man through the dusk of the rainy evening.

My name is John Keen, and I am a solicitor.
I reside at Wrethedale, the town to which (as
perhaps you know) Daniel Banks and his
daughter Dinah have retired.'

Cheston,' said Joe, looking a little grey,
there's something in this — something that I
ought to know at once. You know this gentleman
? ' indicated John.

Perfectly,' said the troubled Cheston, still
staring from one to the other. ' But what the
dickens is it all about, Bushell ? '

That I have to learn,' Joe answered. ' Wait
a moment.' He crossed the room, rung the bell,
and returned. 'How long,' he demanded of
John, ' will it take you to make your communication
? '

Ten minutes,' said John in answer.

Very well,* said Joe ; and at that moment

the waiter entered. ' Waiter, show this gentleman
to a private room,' pointing to Cheston.
And, Cheston, you'll order dinner, won't you ?
Let it be a good one,' he said with ill-assumed
vivacity. ' Here ! We'll leave it with the
waiter. Get the best dinner you can as soon as
you can. You'll excuse me for ten minutes,
won't you ? '

Certainly,' said the Baronet, with his Welcome
and jollity somehow chilled within him.
I'll mo into the smoking-room. You'll find me
there.'

Very good,' said Joe. ' Dinner for two ina
private room. Have a fire, and make things
cheerful. Plenty of candies. Xo gas. And
get a good dinner, and be sharp about it. Now,
sir, I am at your service. This way, if you
please.'

John followed, and Joe led the way into
his bedroom. There he ht the gas, started a
cio-ar, motioned John to a chair, and waited for
him. He read enmity in the young man's
manner, and was at a loss at present for the
STOund of it.

A few months back,' began John, ' I was
made the repository of a secret. A lady for
whom I entertain a profound respect came tome,
and on very weighty grounds confessed
that the name she bore Alas not lier own, and
that she was not, as everybody who knew her
supposed her to be, a single woman, but had
long been married, and that the young man
who passed as her brother was her son.'

Joe's cigar went out, and he arose with a
trembling hand to delight it. John went on.

The lady's husband had deserted her — it
is no business of mine to express an opinion
on the case, and I will deal only with the
facts — a few months after marriage, and had
promised, on their parting, to send her the
certificate of their marriage. He never sent it.
She was ignorant of the world, and knew nothing
of the law. She believed that the want of the
certificate illegitimate her child and annulled
her marriage. Her mother shared in that belief,
and entered into a pious fraud with her by
which, as they both supposed, the lady's honour
would be saved. The child was bred as the

child of his grand-parents, and was brought up
in ignorance of this father's existence.'

Joe's cigar was out again, but he made no
effort to right it.

In time the boy's grandmother — supposed
by all except her daughter to be his mother —
died, and his mother, unable to claim or exert
more than a sister's influence and authority,
endured supreme unhappiness. The boy went
to the bad, not at once, but gradually. He is

at this hour ' Incensed as he was against

the deserter of his wife, John needed all his
heart to launch the blow. Joe's fictitious gaiety
about the dinner had hardened him, and his
knowledge of the bitter and undeserved agonies
poor Dinah had endured made the loyal-hearted
young lawyer almost pitiless to the man before
him. And yet, Joe was not like an unfeeling
scoundrel ; and if ever a bronzed and handsome
face looked troubled in the world, so did the
face John looked at. Yet it was his clear duty
to tell the tale at once, and bring this man
home to a sense of his responsibilities. So he
tried back, and struck straight out. After a

lengthy pause — ' He is, at this hour, in prison
for forgery ! '

My God ! ' cried Joe with a groan. This
-was his first news of the birth of his son, and
it need scarcely be said that it was terrible.
The agony in his voice hit the lawyer hard ;
but he went on sternly, spurred by his partisanship
for the suffering woman and his anger
at the husband's base neglect.

He was engaged,' said John, ' as Mr. George
Bushell's private secretary, and he signed the
name " George Bush ell " to a cheque for three
hundred pounds. Had he known it, he was
legally entitled to the name, and his mother was
entitled to the money.'

Did he know it ? ' Joe asked almost wildly.
There was a jrleam of licht there.

No,' answered John. ' He did not know
it. But when the news of his arrest came to
his mother's ears, she made an appeal to the
prosecutor. She laid bare to him the secret
of the prisoner's birth, and implored him not
to send one of his own flesh and blood to
prison and disgrace. He drove her from his.

VOL. II. U

house insultingly, and refused credence to her
story. The young man was tried, and sentenced
to two years' imprisonment. Eleven months
of that term, or nearly, have yet to expire

My God ! ' Joe groaned again, and burst
on a sudden into weeping so wild and passionate
that John was dumb before him. The punishment
had come home, then — home. He —
he deserved it all, and more than all ; and yet
it was not his to bear, but hers. He had loved
her, he lead loved her. And this was what the
white accusing; accusing: face had meant as it
haunted his memory all these years. The
little, innocent, gay maid — harmless, as harmless
as a dove, as unfitted to fight the world asa
dove to fight with hawks — and he had left
her to this terrible fate ! Incredible cruelty
and baseness !

The storm raged itself out at last, and he
arose from his knees.

Tell me,' he said brokenly, ' whatever else
there is to tell.'

John spoke again, but in a changed voice.

Your wife confided her secret to one living

creature only — a young lady to whom your son
was engaged to be married before the discovery
of his crime.'

The listener groaned anew, and once more
John paused.

Go on,' said Joe ; ' go on.'

Her friend advised her that the loss of the
certificate was no bar to her right to whatever
property her husband's father had died possessed
of ; and for the sake of her son — to save
him from future temptation and misery — she
determined to attempt to establish her claim.
As a first step she went to Waston Church, and
discovered that the register of her marriage had
been abstracted.'

Abstracted ? '

Abstracted ; stolen. Suspicion fell upon
Mr. George Bushell, as the only person. who
had known the secret of the marriage, and the
only person except your wife and son who was
interested in it. It was discovered that he had
been to the church to examine the register — -
that he had sent out the sexton with a gift of a
shilling to get a drink of beer—and I confronted

K 2

him with the sexton. Before he had fairly
heard the charge, he cried out that he had
never seen the man before, and fell down in a
fit, from the effects of which he has not yet
recovered. His illness has stayed proceedings
on our part, and your arrival may alter the
complexion of things altogether. Mrs. Bushell,
sour wife, is strongly averse to any prosecution
of Mr. George Bushell, and I do not think that
any legal proceedings would have been necessary,
in any case. As a matter of fact, we had
hold enough upon him without having recourse
to the law.'

My father,' said Joe, looking up with an
awful face, ' made no will.'

lie made no will, and in your absence
his brother inherited everything. That has
been a matter of common talk ever since I
can remember.'

And my son is in gaol ? '

Yes.'

Mr. Keen ! '

'Yes?'

Do me a favour. Dine with Cheston.

Tell him everything. The people tell me he
is a magistrate. You can advise together.
Are there any means of mitigating the sentence
? We might compel my uncle to join in
an appeal to the authorities. Talk it over with
Cheston. I will join you in an hour or two.
Will you do this ? '

I will do what I can,' said John.

Joe opened the door, and John Keen walked
out of the room. His opinion of the runaway
husband was not yet changed, but it was
shaken. And whilst he dined with Sir Sydney,
and, to that genial man's amazement, told the
tale in full, Joe was kneeling in his own chamber,
weeping, with such repentant and atoning
tears as most men — God be thanked for it ! —
have never had the need to shed.

CHAPTEE XXIV.

I HAVE said before, tliougli without any special
originality, that even a worm will turn. Young
George found his companion's watchful and
friendly benevolence intolerable. Escape became
a necessity, and he fled. He was
conscious of some meanness in it, and he knew
that his promises of an amended life had scarcely
been fulfilled. But then, all along, circumstances
had been against him. The change of
destination and the change of name had been
essentials, and who could have foreseen the
dangers they carried in their train ? Not he.
There was no comfort in the rogue's reflections
on the reception Sir Sydney Cheston would be
likely to give his guest, or on the questions
which would be asked, and the answers which
would perforce be given. For young George
was one of those who liked to stand well in the

general opinion, and he was keenly sensitive to
opinions adverse to himself, even when he was
out of the way of them. To do him full justice,
he thought what an ass he had been to gamble.
Euchre and poker were not his form ; he knew
next to nothing about them ; and if ever he
played again at any game of mingled chance
and skill, it should not be in a game in which
he was a learner. And now, to get away from
that importunate compassion of his, he had been
compelled to sacrifice his luggage, and had
secured in exchange for it only a single portmanteau,
the contents of which would probably
be useless to him.

A day or two before the voyage ended,
George had approached his travelling companion.


I say, Bushell,' he had said, with a certain
air of graceful regret and reluctance, ' you've
acted like a brick to me, and I'm quite ashamed,
you know, to ask you for anything more. But
old Syd is a pretty tough customer for a younger
brother to deal with, and if I have to go to
him for coin directly I get home I shall have a

wii?f?in2^. I don't mind that so much, but he's
a good fellows is Syd, and I don't want to vex
him. Would you mind letting me have a
tenner just to be able to sport a little money in
front of him till I can square myself again ? '

Of course, of course,' said Joe ; and
produced a hundred-dollar bill, which George
got cashed by the steward. So that, in spite
of extravagances, he was not quite forlorn
when he bolted from Joe's overwhelming
benevolence.

He did not care about going to any first-rate
hostel here, lest Joe should find him
again ; and so lie went to a third or fourth-rate
house, and lay there i^erdii for a time until the
coast should be clear. Then he took train for
Newcastle, and hung about for a day or two,
making faint efforts to obtain employment.
These were attended with such ill results, in
the way of inquiry after references and the
like, that he gave them up in disdain. His
little stock of money dwindled and dwindled.
He was in debt at the house he stayed at
beyond his means of paying, and, being

unreasonably bothered for this bill, he took a
hide tone with the landlord, and assured him
with a lofty air that he was troubling the
wrong sort of man, that the remittances he
expected would inevitably reach him on the
morrow, and that he — young George — would
never again use the landlord's house in any
future visits he might make to the town. The
landlord — half suspicious, but half imposed
on — consented to wait yet another day ; and
young George, surmising that in all probability
the remittances were already at the bank,
Whilst his letters had been somehow delayed,
went out to see, and forgot to go back again.
Joe Bushell's portmanteau and its contents
scarcely paid the landlord ; but they consoled
him partly, and young George went upon his
way. From Newcastle-on-Tyne to Durham,
to begin with. Whilst his money lasted, he
was not the man to deny himself ; so he ate a
fair dinner, and even indulged in the luxury of
a bottle of wine. Then, on the morrow, he
discharged his bill, seeing no way to leave the
house without having first gone through

that ceremony, and, being nearly cleaned outby
this time and in a mood of some depression,
he marched out of the town on foot. In a
while, the weather clearing and the sun shining
out with gaiety, his mood also cleared, and he
went along with a sense of exhilaration. He
fed at a little wayside public house, and left
the people impressed with the grandeur of his
manners and his affability. He wandered on,
without aim or prospect, sometimes in absurd
good spirits, sometimes gloomy. Days went
by, and his last copper was gone ; his shirt-cuffs
and collar had grown more than equivocal in
aspect ; his beard had effected a stubbly
growth ; his clothes seemed all the worse for
their good origin, in their dustiness and seediness
; his boots began to give way, and he was
sinking fast into an abject look which suited
his condition. But as yet no very terrible
physical troubles had been encountered. The
weather was mild and fine — unusually so for
the season of the year ; and he wandered on
in a dull contentment, crossed only now and
then with a sense of the coming miseries and

the wickedness and folly of the past. He
was really hungry, for the first time in his life ;
and, nearing a town, he retired behind a haystack,
took off his waistcoat, rolled it up into a
bundle, buttoned his coat, and ran the waistcoat
in at mine uncle's. It realised two
shillings ; and on this he supped, slept, and
breakfasted. In the next town an old slop-seller
made a bargain with him — four shillings
and a patched workman's suit for coat and
trousers, a cloth cap and a shilling for his hat.
The five shillings lasted him a day, and he went
on aimless and at ease. A day later he landed
at the workhouse.

Now, this was something of a blow for
him ; but he got a certain mental luxury out
of it notwithstanding. When he walked into
the police station, he was pleased at the look
of inquiry his demand for workhouse relief
extorted from the accustomed official at the
desk. It was a tribute to his gentility. Many
a gentleman had come to this condition before.
Why not again in his case ? He felt a certain
stoicism, too, which seemed to do him credit

under the circumstances. There was that
curious self-deceptive sense in him which is
perhaps only the property of the born pretender
; and it was so distinct that he felt an
absolute pride in flaunting before the accustomed
official eyes the poverty of one so evidently
cultured and well-bred. He was audience as
well as dramatist and player, and the situation
was certainly singular.

Yet, when he had answered the official
inquiries, had received his ticket, and got into
the street again, he seemed to feel that everybody
knew he was going to the workhouse,
and he found that sensation oppressive. The
policeman had directed him thither, and the
road was plain enough ; but he dodged about
streets to avoid observation until he lost the
way, and had to ask anew to be directed. He
chose to put the question to an old woman ; and
she in answer raised her hands and said, 'Eh,
dear me ! ' before she gave him the information
he needed. That pleased him too, though it was
not altogether pleasant. He was evidently a
gentleman, or the old woman would not have
been astonished.

I have felt over and over again a sort of
baseness in telling this young man's story. Cana
writer, any more than other people, touch
pitch and not be defiled? But let, me task
your impatience and control my own a little
further. I shall have pointed a moral with him
before I have done, though he may scarcely
have served to adorn a tale.

The gates of the workhouse were vast and
prison-like, and they reminded him of recent
experiences. After some looking up and down,
he found an iron bell-pull and tugged at it
with a result so astounding in the way of noise
that he was borne down by the exigence of his
own summons, and felt abashed when an angry
porter came out of a small door round a projecting
buttress, and demanded with some
asperity to know what the row was about.
George tendered his ticket almost with meekness
; but when the porter made farther objections
to the disturbance of workhouse tranquillity,
the reduced nobleman began to take a
haughty air with him.

I beg your pardon, I am sure,' said George,

in the most aristocratic-sounding drawl lie could
command. ' This is my first experience in this
hue. I shall probably learn bettah by-and-by.'

Let me see,' said the porter, with his head
on one side and his hands in his pockets. ' When
was you here last ? Fanny weary, I think. Yes ;
it was Jannywerry.'

George surveyed this vulgarly suspicious
person with calm scorn, answered his questions
with all possible brevity, and followed him into
the casual ward like Charles the First on his way
to execution — so tranquil his contempt, so resigned
his martyrdom.

In the casual ward were already a dozen
wayfarers, sitting listlessly on benches near the
wall. They looked up when the new-comer
entered, and looked down again ; and never a
.word they said, until the porter had disappeared,
when one began to sing an unrefined ditty of
Moll and Meg, unmeet for ladies. Now, our
young nobleman, Astrea redux, had never been
particular to a shade of morals in a song until
now ; but he spoke out, after a while, with . a
very effective drawl :

Don't you think you might sing that blackguard
song to yourself, if you must sing it ? '

They all looked up again at this interruption,
and the singer was palpably discomfited.

I quite agree with you, sir,' said a broken-looking,
dirty grey man in a corner. ' I've seen
better days myself, and I feel that sort of thing
offensive.'

It ain't quite the thing,' said another ; and
a confirmatory murmur ran about the place.

The gentleman's get used to it bymeby,'
said one sturdy tramp.

I respectfully venture to hope that I shall
not,' returned the aristocrat of the tramp ward ;
and again there was a weary murmur of approval.

At this juncture the porter returned, followed
by a professional pauper, who, being a professional,
had a natural disdain for amateurs, and
treated them with lofty hauteur as he handed
round blocks of dry bread, and tin cans of a
tepid liquid which smelt of rancid bacon.

If things goes on like this, 'said the sturdy
tramp, smelling at the liquid with a distasteful
look, ' I shall smash another lamp or two, or ripe

my togs up, or do summit, an' get another month.
They feeds you ten times as well in quod as they
does when you're on the spike.'

And pray what may the spike be ? ' asked
George with a mighty condescending air.

Why, this is the spike, my noble sportsman,'
said the sturdy tramp ; ' an' quod's the shop where
they cut your 'air for nothing'. Never been there,
I repose?'

Don't take any notice of him, sir,' said the
dirty grey man. ' Them as was born in a pigsty
can put up with dirty litter, but I've seen
better days myself, and it's easy to see that you're
a cut above this.'

'Ye-es,' returned George, ' I hope that's tolerably
apparent. This is my hast experience.'

You needn't be so blooming proud about
it,' said the sturdy tramp, who alone of the room's
occupants seemed unabashed by George's tone
and aspect. ' It's no particular credit to be
here.'

To this the fallen nobleman answered only
by a glance of calm disdain, at which the sturdy
tramp chuckled with ostentatious merriment.

George, being really liimgry, ate his bread, but
eschewed the rancid-smelling liquid, and the
dirty grey man, seeing this, begged leave to
appropriate it.

It's warm an' it's wet,' said the dirty man ;
an' that's about all you can say for it. But it
is a comfort, too, when a cove's as cold inside
as I am.'

In this particular workhouse the ordeal by
water, made famous some years ago by the
Amateur Casual, was not practised, but the
tramps were all bundled to bed immediately
after supper, in a common room like an ill-favoured
barrack. George turned up his nose at
the tumbled harden which did duty for linen,
and, but for the interference of the professional
pauper who saw them all to bed would honestly
have preferred to sleep in his clothes. Perforce
he accepted the professional's dictum, and undressed
; and having, in pursuance of the pauper's
orders, rolled his clothes into a bundle with the
shirt outside, he got into bed and lay there in
the early darkness, indisposed to sleep, and compelled
for a while to face his own reflections.

VOL. II. S

He was not so miserable as lie deserved to be,
and his chief misery sprang from a bitter resentment
to the world, which even now seemed to
his own mind to have used him ill. Naturally,
with young George self-preservation was the
first law of nature ; and now that things had
come with him to this low ebb, it was full time
to think of means for taking the tide again.
His father and Dinah were well-to-do, and it
was a shame that he should beg his bread whilst
people of his own flesh and blood lived in
comfort. Yet, they were lost to him. It was
impossible for him to go to his old home, to face
his late employer, or run the risk of being seen
by people who had known him ; and how to
trace his relatives by any other means he could
not tell. Tired of turning over fruitless projects
in his mind, he fell asleep, and did not awake
until the clanging of a great bell mingled with
his dreams, and last night's professional pauper
turned up again to awaken the amateur contingent.
Then he dressed, and presently, to his
huge disgust, found himself face to face with a
big pile of stones, on a raised stone bench, with

instructions from the porter to see that he broke
that heap up nice and small. ' Like this,' said
the porter, producing a sample handful. George
went to work reluctantly and clumsily, and hammered
with small result upon the stones, but
much to the damage of his hands and the stiffening
of his muscles. After five hours' labour his
work was criticised by the porter, who expressed
unqualified disapproval of it in regard both to
quality and quantity, but forbore to detain him
for the completion of his task. George, with a
certain meek grandeur, accepted and consumed
his morning's rations, washed in a bucket of water
which everybody used in turn, and took his way
into the streets of the town. The dirty grey
man crawled alongside.

Which way do you think of going ? ' he
asked.

I don't know,' said George haughtily. ' Not
yours.'

I know the line along between here and
Chester,' said the grey man, unabashed by this
rebuff; ' and I can put you up to the coves to
go to. A bloke as can patter like you can oughts

2

to make a tidy thing of it if he's only along with
somebody as knows the line.'

George capitulated.

Where are you going ? '

The man laid down his route, and the two
started in partnership. Their luck varied. The
dirty grey man had not boasted in vain, for he
knew the road and its inhabitants : but it was
not always that George's tale succeeded in melting
the heart of his listener. This nicely-assorted
pair kept, however, from the workhouse, and
there fell upon the younger wanderer's spirit a
sort of dull contentment in the life to which he
had fallen. He told his tale so often that the
true story became mythical and the lie looked
true.

But after a long spell of wandering there
came upon the companions a time of famine.
The old vagrant got out of the line he knew, and
in one or two cases mendicancy became dangerous,
and they made their way out of some towns
double-quick, lest the police should be set upon
their heels. Workhouse fare and workhouse
labour day after day, and wretched weather from

town to town, until the fallen grandee grew sick
and desperate. They crawled along, skirting
the borders of the principality, until within a
four days' journey of the town of Borton, and at
that point young George's piteous aspect and
tenor-soundings voice of culture drew a shilling
from a charitable maltster. With that shilling
George bought, amongst other things, a sheet of
letter-paper, an envelope, and a stamp, and in the
sickness and misery of his heart found pluck
enough to write to John Keen, his old comrade.

I have nothing to say in excuse for myself,'
he wrote ; ' not a word to advance in extenuation.
But I can have deserved no more than I have
endured, bad as I have been, and I beg you for
pity's sake to let me know the address of my
father and my sister, that I may write to them
for a little money to go abroad with and begin
life anew. I am destitute, so destitute that I
have not eaten a decent meal for a month. My
feet are bare, my clothes in rags. I have suffered
so much for my wrong doing that even an enemy
would pity me if he could see me. I shall walk

on from here to Borton, and shall arrive there in
four days. How I shall live for that four days
God knows, but I am compelled to move about
from place to place to get workhouse shelter and
a casual tramp's poor fare. I implore you to
keep this communication secret from everybody,
and not to deny my request. Ill as I have
behaved, I am sure my own people will not leave
me to die in this horrible slow way. I am not
worthy to sign myself your friend.

Your wretched companion in happier days,
George Banks.

'Pes. — Address me at the post-office at
Borton.'

Of course it was in the nature of the man
that he should water this epistle with his tears,
and that he should accept them as a good sign
in himself, and their palpable marks upon the
paper as a likely means to move his old companion.
He posted the letter, and trudged along
in brighter weather. With the prospect of a
possible and even probable post-office order from
John Keen in his mind, he picked a quarrel with

this dirty grey comrade and parted from him
not feeling inclined to share any portion of his
gains.

He was trudging along with bent head and
sore feet towards the close of his second day of
the new hope which sprang from his letter, and
was approaching the little country town where
lay his refuge for the night. The sun was sinking,
the skies were filled with mellow, tranquil
light, the upper clouds were golden and the lower
all alive with rosy blushes. The town lay before
him and below him at a distance of perhaps a
mile, its slated roofs shining after a passing
shower like silver. As he stood wearily, sick in
body, broken and woebegone, with thin tears in
his eyes, staring before him at the valley and the
little town, a lady came round the corner of the
road and walked leisurely towards him without
a glance. But as she approached him there
broke from his lips such an inarticulate cry, and
he shrank on a sudden in such an attitude of
shame and terror, that she turned in surprise to
look at him, and stood still. Slowly he lifted his
face, haggard and bearded, weather-stained and

way soiled, and the sudden flash of terror and
amazement in the lady's eyes told him that, in
spite of all the changes which had come upon
him, he was known.

The little town a mile away was Wrethedale,
and the girl was Ethel Donne.

CHAPTEE XXV.

Joe had many things to think of, some about
which to remodel his opinions. There was that
Uncle George of his, who for so long had
figured in his thoughts as a sort of wooden
angel, and who now disproved his own desert
of praise, and established himself as a quite
melodramatic old rascal. It was hard for the
returned wanderer to take the kindly, generous,
stupid old Uncle George off his pedestal, and setup
in his place the cunning, greedy, wicked
figure he now began to know. And then Joe
had felt himself a little aggrieved by Dinah's
marriage, and he had used his grief as a set-off
against his own misdoing; whilst after all
Dinah had been true, and his falsehood was
multiplied a thousand thousand times. Uncle
George had his share in that to answer for. Fora
while, when he began to think of it, Joe was

resolved to have no mercy upon Uncle George,
who really had been, within limits, a very
wicked old man. But softening thoughts in a
little time came to the prodigal's mind. He
himself had more need of mercy than even that
bowelless old man. Joe had never thought
much of George's head, though he had revered
his heart, and it began now to seem natural to
him that his uncle should have gone wrong
under great temptation. And surely the sudden
temptation to keep so vast a sum as that which
drew on old George was a difficult thing to
resist.

Should I have come home ? ' Joe asked
himself. 'Should I have behaved better if
Uncle George had never told that lie about
Dinah? The news that I owned the money
might have brought me home again, but the
thought of Dinah failed to do it.'

He did himself less than justice, as was
natural, and was hard upon himself in his own
thoughts, as he had a right to be.

More than the hour or two he had specified
to John Keen had gone by. It was nearly midnight

and he still sate absorbed in his own
thoughts and memories, when the young lawyer
ventured back assail and knocked at his bedroom
door. Joe appeared in the doorway with
troubled face and disordered hair.

It is getting late,' said John. ' Sir Sydney
Cheston would be glad to see you.'

Very well,' said Joe, coming out upon the
corridor.

John led the way to the private room in
which Cheston and he had spent the evening,
and when the baronet saw his old chum's face
he arose in solicitude, and crossed the chamber
to meet him.

This has been bad news, Bushell,' he said
as he took Joe's hand. ' I have been telling
Keen here that there must have been some
powerful motive at work to keep you away all
these years. I shan't press you to reveal it.'

There was only one thing,' Joe answered.
My uncle wrote to me telling me that my wife
had married two years after I left home, and I
couldn't come back after that you know. I
lived in that belief until I met your brother

George by chance in New York, and he told
me the truth.'

What is this ? ' cried Cheston. ' This about
a brother of mine. I never had a brother
George ! '

What ? ' asked Joe in amazement. ' He
said he was your brother. He said your father
married again. Here,' cried Joe excitedly,
pulling out his pocket-book, ' here is his
card.'

Sir Sydney took the proffered card and
read —

Mr, George Cheston^ Worley Hall, staffordshire''


'This a queer start,' said the bewildered
reader, staring stricken at Joe, whilst Joe,
with as much surprise, stared back at him.
What was he like ? '

You got his letter ? ' asked Joe. ' I saw
him write it, and I sent my own servant to the
post with it.'

I got a letter,' returned Cheston, ' but who
the dickens wrote it is more than I know, and
more than I can guess.'

Joe suddenly seized Cheston by the arm.

Was the news he gave me about Dinah —
about my wife — was that true ? '

What news ? ' demanded Cheston.

'That she had never married again.'

'Yes. That was true. I've knoAvn her
ever since you went away — ever since the day
you knocked me down about her.'

The matter was not so serious to Cheston as
it was to Joe, and the good-natured baronet
could afford an amused smile to that remembrance.
Joe sat down, his brown beard crushed
against his breast, and stared at the fire.

It is easy enough,' said Cheston, laying a
hand on Joe's shoulder, ' to see why old Bushell
wrote that lie to you. I'm afraid that respectable
old party has been a bad lot all along.
Did he know of your marriage ? '

'No,' the other answered. ' He couldn't
even guess it. He might have seen from my
asking after her in my letters that I was fond of
her,' he added simply.

And invented the tale to prevent you from
coming back again to look after her ? Perhaps,
Mr. Keen,' said Cheston turning round, ' the
devil is less black than he is painted.'

John nodded but said nothing. He had
learned the story of Joe's departure, partly from
Dinah and partly from Cheston, and he began to
be able to see that the runaway was not necessarily
a hardened villain to begin with ; at least
he seemed properly sensible of his wickedness
and folly now, and he was in terrible trouble
through it all. John could scarcely maintain
his hold upon that angry scorn which he desired
to feel. He confessed that, howsoever deserved
the bitterness might be, the wanderer had a
bitter home-coming.

Who the devil,' Cheston broke out after a
little silence*, ' could that fellow have been who
gave you this confounded card ? '

I don't know,' said Joe wearily. ' I met
him at an hotel. He used to talk about dear
old Syd., and he knew my Uncle George, and —
and Dinah, and old Banks. He came back with
me as far as Liverpool, and then he bolted.
Why, I've got his luggage here now ! ' he cried,
suddenly recalling that fact. ' It has his name
painted on it. Two portmanteaus and a big
chest. He was a good-looking fellow, and if he

wasn't a gentleman, he was a very good imitation
of one. There was no humbug about his knowing
the country-side, any way.'

And did he talk about me ? ' asked Cheston.

Of course,' Joe answered. 'When I first
heard him speaking he was asking some young
Englishmen to pay him a visit at his place at
home — Worley Hall, in Staffordshire. It was
that which made me speak to him.'

I shall be glad to welcome any friends of
his,' said Sir Sydney somewhat grimly. ' Deuced
glad. I shall be glad to welcome him if he
should call — with a horsewhip ! '

'Cheston,' said Joe, rising and pacing up
and down the room, ' this is all trivial, and we
can talk about it afterwards to our hearts' content.
Advise me. What am I to do ? '

About young Banks ? '

About my son ! Yes.'

Keen tells me,' said Cheston, ' that you said
something about obtaining a mitigation of the
sentence, and compelling your uncle to join in
the appeal. There's something in that. You
don't doubt the story of his relationship to you ? '

Doubt Dinali ? Sto. That was beyond him.
He had no doubt of Dinah ; but he looked at
John Keen.

I think the thing,' said John, ' as clear as
day. I would as leave doubt my own senses
as Miss Banks — as Mrs. Joseph Bushell.'

If the boy is hers,' said Joe, ' the boy is
mine.'

Do you intend to return to her ? ' asked
Cheston.

Great heaven, Cheston ! ' Joe exclaimed.
What can you think me ? Go back to her
now, after leaving her alone and broken-hearted
all these years? Go back to her, and give her
the extra misery of knowing that I was alive
all this time ! No. I'm not the man she loved
and married. No. She wouldn't know me if
she saw me. Give her definite news that I'm
dead, and let me find this unhappy lad of mine
and take him away with me back to the West,
and teach him to be honest, and leave him
enough to keep him so. I can do that much
good at last, perhaps.'

He spoke with difficulty, but in so simple

and direct a way, and with a repentance and
mournfulness so real and apparent, that for a
minute they left him unanswered.

His mother,' said John after this pause,
would not be content to lose him so. At least
I think not.'

It's a terrible business, Bushell,* said
Cheston, laying both his hands on Joe's
shoulders. ' Make the best of it. Go back to
your wife, declare yourself, promise to do the
best you can for the lad — make whatever atonement
for your past mistakes you can.'

'No,' the prodigal answered, 'I can't do
that. I can't be so mean as to o^o back ao^ain and
offer her the mere fag-end of a life. No, no ! '

Fag-end of life be hanged ! ' cried Cheston.
I'm a young fellow yet, and we're of an age
within a month or two. You've happy years
before you, man alive! Do your duty, Joe,
and earn 'em, and have 'em and enjoy 'em ! '

You don't understand,' said Joe, returning
Cheston's friendly gaze mournfully. ' I couldn't
quite tell you myself what brought me over,
but I know what I want now.'

VOL. II. T

What do you want ? '

'To spare her all I can. Everybody has
believed me dead for years. It would only
bring her a new trouble to know that I was
alive.'

Suppose that, believing you dead, she
should be induced to marry again ! Eh ? And
suppose that when the step was taken any
accident should reveal the fact that you were
still living ? Would that be sparing her ? '

Don't urge me now,' said Joe hesitatingly.
Give me time to think. And think for me.
I am only certain of one thing. Whatever
seems best for her comfort and peace of mind
1 shall try to do.'

There was no doubting that he meant this,
and Cheston was compelled for the time to let
the subject fall.

And now,' Joe resumed, ' I can go tomorrow
to my Uncle George, and frighten him
into making enough over to Dinah to satisfy
her heart's best wishes — if money could do it.'

I am afraid that if he saw you just at present
the shock would kill him,' said John Keen.

What cadi we do ? ' Joe cried. * Does my
boy know who he is yet ? '

No,' from both of them.

I'll go and see him,' said Joe, forcing himself
against an awful inward terror and reluctance.
' We can appeal to the Government to mitigate
his sentence. You'll help me, Cheston ? '

I don't think I'd try to see him at first,'
urged Sir Sydney. ' I'll help you any way I
can with all my heart and all my might.
We might appeal, though there were circumstances
Yes ; we might appeal.'

'" What circumstances ? There was nothing
worse than I know ? '

Well,' said Cheston, reluctantly, ' his defence
was his worst condemnation, Bushell, and
that's a fact. He swore it was all a plot to
ruin him, and he gave his sweetheart a part
of the money in bank-notes, and when she
came into the box he sung out that she was in
the plot with the rest, and the poor girl fainted.
It made people angry, you know, and it increased
the prejudice against him.'

At this renewal of his memories the baronet

I 2

walked abruptly to the other end of the room,
and there, under his breath, he let out a curse
against the criminal, and then returned. Joe
stood dejectedly looking at the floor.

What can we do ? ' he asked again. ' Has
anybody seen him since ? '

No,' said John, ' I think not. Old Daniel
his grandfather — was so cut up by it that
he sold the Saracen and went away to
Wrethedale. I had some trouble,' he continued,
with something of the old hang-dog air
upon him, ' in finding out where he had gone,
for he communicated with nobody, and left the
place quite suddenly.'

'Cheston,' said Joe doggedly, 'I shall go
and see him. It's clear he has been a scoundrel.
So have I, and there's a pair of us. Like fatherlike
son. If I'd have stayed at home and done
my duty he'd never have been tempted.' John
recalled Dinah's words, for Joe was thinking
Dinah's thoughts. ' I'll begin to do my duty
now, please God ! * Joe said humbly, ' and I'll
20 and see him tomorrow. You're a magistrate,
Cheston. How can I set about it ^ '

I can help you if you are bent upon it,'
said his old companion. ' I am a visiting justice
for the county. Shall I go with you ? '

Will you ? ' asked Joe. ' Thank you.'

They all fell into silence, until after a long
pause John arose and said good-night. Sir
Sydney at this arose also.

You'll want to be alone a little while,
Joe.? Eh?'

Yes,' said Joe. ' I shall see you again,
Mr. Keen. You will keep my confidence in
the meantime until it is decided what to do.'

Certainly,' John replied, and went his
way, his old prejudices against Joe Bushell and
his new prejudices in his favour fighting each
other.

You're set on going tomorrow, Bushell ? '
asked Cheston.

Yes. You'll come with me ? '

If you wish it.'

I do wish it.'

I will come. Good-night.'

Good-night.'

Joe was alone again with his own thoughts

Ah — in his case too — sto have seen to-day with
tomorrow's eyes. There is no wisdom like
that. But which of us has it? If he could
have foreseen ! But he had at least be<?un to
learn in these late days the one lesson which in
itself comprises most human wisdom worth the
having — and that is that in any complexity and
all complexities of human life the thing to dois
not that which looks easiest or most clever,
but that which is most honest. Patiently to
find out the right thing to do and then to do it
seemed all the hope left him in the world.
And there are some of us who go along in
high feather who have hopes less bright than
this.

It seemed to the home-coming prodigal's
conscience the clearest of duties to see this
unknown fallen son of his without delay, and
without delay to set to work for his amendment.
He lay awake planning for this newly-found
child, whom he had never seen and who was a
felon. He wept awful tears about him and
the hapless mother so long deserted. Whatever
he had suffered in the past — and remorse

had for many a year been busy with him — was
nothing to this last punishment, and the healing
but terrible fire of it lay in this — that he
who had most deserved to suffer had suffered
nothing.

I have wired,' said Cheston when he met
Joe in the morning, ' to say to the Governor
that I am leaving here by the 10.15, and that
I particularly desire to see him. I have asked
him to meet me at the railway station. He
knows me very well, and 1 have no doubt he
will oblige me by coming.'

Joe said ' Thank you,' and no more.

They breakfasted in silence, and in silence
set out upon their journey. Cheston read the
Times,' and Joe communed with his own
thoughts. The baronet's surmise was right,
and the Governor of the jail was at the station
to meet the train.

I am immensely obliged to you,' said
Cheston, shaking him by the hand with hearty
cordiality. ' Will you walk up with us ? '

We are all happy to oblige Sir Sydney
Cheston,' said the Governor.

'This is my friend Mr. Busliell,' said Cheston.
The Governor bowed and made way for the
two to pass through the station door. Cheston,
drawing one arm through the Governor's and
another through Joe's, went on : ' We are
deeply interested in one of the prisoners under
your charge, one George Banks.'

George Banks,' said the Governor, ' is nc^t
under my charge any longer, Sir Sydney.'

How's that?' asked Cheston, stopping short
in his walk.

Well,' said the official smilingly, ' I suppose
your interest a friendly one ? '

It is assuredly,' Joe answered.

In that case you will be pleased to hear
that his sentence was some time ago commuted
by the influence of a most warm-hearted friend,
who exerted himself with the Secretary for the
Home Department, procured the young fellow's
release, and sent him out to Melbourne.'

The two friends, standing in the roadway
with the Governor between them, looked across
at each other in amazement, and the Governor
himself, naturally pleased to have produced

such an effect so easily, smiled as lie gazed from
one to the other. Cheston was the first to
recover.

Who was the benefactor ? '

Well, Sir Sydney,' returned the Governor,
still smiling, ' but that I am forbid to tell the
secrets of my prison-house I could a tale
■ fold. Ha ! ha ! ha ! ' He was again naturally
pleased at having fallen on so apt a
quotation. ' The fact is,' he added, ' that I amin
a measure bound to reticence. The young
man's friend was one of those people — very
rare in my experience — who do good by stealth
and blush to find it fame.' The Governor was
again delighted with himself at having found
so apt a quotation, and again he showed it.
He asked me,' continued the smiling official,
in terms which I can scarcely disregard, not to
reveal his share in that meritorious enterprise.
I believe, gentlemen, that for once I have seen
a practical Christian, and that practical Christian
was the man whose influence released
young Banks from prison.'

He spoke with pleased warmth upon this

VOL. II. u

topic, but looking from Joe's face to Sir
Sydney's and from Sir Sydney's face to Joe's, lie
read no answering smile.

I assure you, sir,' said Joe, with a gravity
before which the Governor's smile died away,
and Sir Sydney Cheston will assure you, that weare
here upon an enterprise of no common importance.
It is vital to me to know this young
man's whereabouts. If you will give me the
name of the man who did this good deed, I
pledge you my word of honour that I can and
will exculpate you to him, and could and would
if you had been sworn to secresy a hundred
times.'

I don't think it is possible,' said Cheston,
to exaggerate the importance of my friend's
request, either as regards himself or young
Banks. Melbourne's a wide word. The young
fellow may have gone anywhere from Melbourne,
and we might chase him in vain for
years.'

It can injure nobody,' Joe broke in again,
to let me know who has anticipated nie. My
purpose,' he added, ' in coming here was to

set afoot a plan for the mitigation of his sentence.
Will you help me to find him ? '

It's for the young fellow's good,' chimed
in Sir Sydney ; and between the two the Governor
hauled down the flag of resistance, and in
the act struck the pair dumb.

Well, gentlemen, under the circumstances
I suppose I am justified ; at least I feel so.
The gentleman who procured young Banks's
release, who fitted him out for the world anew,
who gave him a free passage to Melbourne and
two hundred pounds to begin the world again
with, was ' — he paused to give effect to his
announcement — 'his original prosecutor, Mr.
George Bushell.'

To say that his hearers were astonished is to
say nothing. The Governor had intended a
surprise, but seeing dimly that the effect he
had produced multiplied this hopes by a million
or thereabouts, he also became amazed, as a man
might, who, suddenly closing a door to startle
you, should find that he had slammed the house
do\\TL. Cheston and Joe could only stare in
blank wonder, and the Governor, discomfited

without knowing why, looked helplessly from
one to the other. At last Cheston burst into
almost hysteric laughter, stamping to and fro
about the street.

I .beg your pardon,' he gasped after a
minute or two, holding Joe's arm and looking
at him through tears of laughter. ^ ' I wouldn't
wound you, Joe ; I couldn't help it.'

The villain ! ' cried Joe, finding his tongue.

The amazing old serpent ! ' said Cheston,
asking still. ' Machiavelli was a fool to him.'

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LOSDOS : Painted BY

SPOTTISWOODE And CO., KEW-STREET SQUARE

And PAIlLIAiIE^•T STREET

*^M<

'f^g^

WT

^ ■ ^ r — 1

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

3 0112 052944508

FENWICK'S

Circulating Library;

(In Connection with Muche's

<§ferms of gmBscvipttcm,

PAYABLE IN ADVANCE, AND COMMENCING AT ANY DATE.

Two Vols. Three Vols. "Five Vols.'

d.





Single Subscription, 10/6 per Annum.
Six Months, 6/-

(this Subscription does not include the Newest Books
until the first demand has subsided).

SINGLE VOLUMES LENT TO READ

AT ONE PENNY PER DAY.

■* 108, WESTERN ROAD *•

(Near Norfolk Square),

BRIGHTON.

lis

lis

ntft i\ i

W^k M



in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/josephscoat03murr

VOL. III.

A NEW NOVEL BY OUIDA. 3 vols.

crown 8vo.

GOD AND THE MAN. By Robert

Buchanan, Author of ' The Shadow of the Sword' &c.
3 vols, crown 8vo.

THE COMET OF A SEASON. By Justin

McCarthy, M.P., Author of ' Miss Misanthrope' &c.
3 vols, crown 8vo.

PRINCE Barons WIFE, and other Stories.
By Julian Hawthorne. 3 vols, crown 8vo

A HEART'S PROBLEM. By Charles

Gibbon, Author of ' Robin Gray ' &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo.

THE BRIDE'S PASS. By Sarah Tatler.

2 vols, crown 8vo.

SOMETHING IN THE CITY. By George

Augustus Sala. 3 vols, crown 8vo.

CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

m ^g:

A o

Mag

'that's an old fellow, now.'

BY

DAVID CHRISTIE MURRAY

AUTHOR OF A LIFE S ATONEMENT ETC.

With TWELVE ILLUSTRATIONS by FRED. BAR SARD

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

Jonson

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY


All rights reserved

SPOTTISW.OODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

ILLUSTRATIONS TO VOL. III.

That's an old fellow, now ! ' . . . Frontispiece

George eyed his assailant with watchful

tremor" to face p. 64

• Lax a hand on me, and youxl be sorry

POR IT " „ 218

Joe took the old pledge of truth ' . . ,, 286

CHAPTER Xxii.

Old George, propped up with pillows, sat in a
big armchair in that room in which young
George had once upon a time signed his own
name without knowing it. His face was pallid
and puffy, his lips had fallen to a vacuous looseness,
and his eyes were dull and fish-like. His
white hands wandered feebly about the rug which
lay over his knees, and his whole look was that of
a broken man. His housekeeper stood by him
with jelly in a tea-cup, and fed him with a
spoon until the old man turned his head away
like a fretful baby.

1 Tek a bit more, master,' said the housekeeper.


'Is their anything' wrong with it?' asked

VOL. III. B

old George, moving his lips, with a doubtful
air. ' I've been a good master to you, Mrs.
Bullus, this many 'ears. I don't think you'd
do me harm now.'

Law bless you, master, how yo' do talk,'
said Mrs. Bullus. ' Tek your vittles like a
sensible old man, now. Do. Their, that's
right. Why, it's the very best o' caves-foot
jelly, as I made myself.'

She smacked her lips with a relishing air,
and old George again consented to be fed.
The last spoonful had been just administered,
when there came a knock at the front door, and
the housekeeper, hastening to answer it, dropped
a series of bobbing curtseys.

Good morning,' said Sir Sydney Cheston,
in tones subdued from those he commonly used.
4 How is your master ? '

He's mending', sir,' returned the housekeeper,
still bobbing at the baronet, as though
the sight of him set an uncontrollable spring in
motion : ' but his poor yet's bad, an' he seems
a bit childish-like.'

Do you think he'd know me ? ' asked Sir

Sydney. ' Would it do him any harm to seeme
? '

1 Oh, lie seems to know folks just as well as
ever, sir,' said the housekeeper ; ' but please
speak very quiet to him, sir. He's all o'er
nerves, like.'

8 Yes, I will,' answered Cheston, entering on
tiptoe. 'This tha room? Thank you.' He
advanced gently towards the patient and sat
down beside him. ' Well, Mr. Bushell, you're
getting better, eh ? ' George looked at him
vaguely. There was no speculation in the orbs
that he did glare withal. ' You know me,
don't you ? '

How d'ye do, sir ? ' said the patient,
nodding at him feebly.

You know me? ' his visitor repeated, tapping
himself on the waistcoat with a forefinger
' Sir Sydney Cheston, you know, eh ? '

The old man again nodded feebly, and
chuckled with exceeding faintness.

I've rode,' he answered, * along of a baronet
afore to-day.'

4 So you have, Bushell,' said Cheston, * so

B 2

you have.' He surveyed the old man with
much discomfiture ; but whilst he did so
George's eyes lit up a little, and he put out a
shaking hand.

I'm proud to see you here, Sir Sydney,' he
quavered.

1 That's well, that's well,' said Cheston,
shaking hands with him. ' You're getting
better, eh ? You'll be able to see to business
again by-and-by, eh ? '

4 In a day or two — in a day or two,'
quavered old George ; but to his visitor's mind
it looked unlikely. ' I'm proud to see you
here,' the patient repeated, ' but I've allays
been well thought on by the local nobility an'
gentry, an' I'll tell you why. I've snowed my
station, an' I've been a man as allays tried to do
my booty.'

Yes, yes,' Cheston answered, with outward
heartiness, and at this juncture the doctor arrived.
After a brief examination of the patient
he retired, taking Sir Sydney with him.

What do you think of the case, doctor ? '
k Well, Sir Sydney, it's a case of considerable

difficulty. Sometimes I think he may recover
mental soundness as well as bodily health, and
sometimes I think he may not. We must leave
all that to time.'

You think he may recover bodily health ? '
asked Cheston.

4 Yes,' said the other. 4 He is in a fair way ;
but his mental strength returns slowly, and he
has relapses.'

Urn,' said Cheston, standing beside the
doctor's carriage. 4 Look here ! I've some very
particular and important business with him.'

4 Impossible to attend to it, Sir Sydney, I
assure you, for weeks to come, at least.'

1 Very well, then,' said Sir Sydney ; ' I won't
allude to it for weeks to come. I won't allude
to it until you give me leave, but what I want
to ask is this : — Will it facilitate matters if I call
on him now and then, and let him get used tome
before I broach what I have to say to him ?
Xow I've given you my word that I won't hint
at the thing until you give me leave.'

4 1 beg your pardon, Sir Sydney,' said the
doctor, turning with a foot on the carriage step,

but has the business anything to do with that
which gave him the first shock ? Do you
know ? '

It is the same,' replied Cheston ; ' but he
doesn't associate me with it. Entre nous, it's a
great deal more important than his getting
better can be to anybody ; but unluckily it
can't be done without his getting better.'

He left the doctor to think over that enigma,
and went back to the hotel in Birmingham to
join Joe Bushell and John Keen. His visit to
old George had come about as the result of a
consultation, and he had been fixed upon to
spy out the condition of affairs for reasons plain
enough. A return of the long-lost nephew
might have killed the old rogue outright, and
John Keen's presence was but too likely to
upset him again, whilst no suspicion could
attach to a visit from the baronet. Cheston
gave his news.

It's no use starting on a wild-goose chase
to Melbourne,' said Joe. ' We can see the old
man's hand too plainly now to think of that.'

Why ? ' asked John Keen.

Don't you see that my uncle's object was to
get the boy out of the way ? Do you think he
would be likely to tell the Governor of the gaol
the real place to which he persuaded him to go? '

4 What shall you do ? ' asked Cheston.

What can I do ? ' returned Jo 3. ' There is
nothing to do but to wait.'

6 And where shall you wait ? ' his friend demanded.
' Come and stay with me.'

No,' returned the exile ; ' I don't want to
be known. I'll stay where I am at present, and
lie close.'

The baronet pressed him, but he would not
yield, and at last he confessed his purpose.

The fact is, I'm trying to make my mind

up to go to Wrethedale and ' He broke

down, and turned away ; but recovering himself
in a moment, he addressed John : ' I suppose
there's an hotel there ? '

Yes,' said John.

We might make a casual acquaintance
when I get there, Mr. Keen, if you don't mind,'
said Joe ; 'but I should be glad if you wouldn't
know me just at first. I am surrounded by

difficulties. Let me know what to do before I
act decisively. You will do your best for me
here, I know, Cheston.'

Rely on that,' his friend answered, with a firm
shake-hands, and after a little further talk they
parted. Sir Sydney was to watch old George,
and to report on his fitness for approach when
the time came. The report was to be made to
the lawyer, and not to Joe, who was to figure
in Wrethedale as an idle stranger until he could
decide upon his own line of action, or events
decided for him. Cheston went home, and in
the evening the young lawyer and the returned
wanderer took train together.

6 Mr. Keen,' said Joe, as they sat alone in
the railway carriage, ' on my own best showing
you have no reason to think well of me, but I
want you to be my friend. You see my wife
sometimes ? '

4 Yes,' said John. ' I have known her all
my life.'

Did she strike you as a happy woman before
this trouble came ? ' poor Joe asked.

k No,' said John. 4 She always seemed tome,

even when I was a lad, a woman who had
seen trouble. She never complained of anything,
but there was always a sort of gentle
sadness about her.'

Joe nodded sorrowfully and fell a-thinking.

Wherever this wanderer had gone men had
somehow liked him and believed in him. His
handsome face, the saddened good-fellowship
of his look, his ways, genial and gentle, had
enlisted the hearts of men and of women. John
felt tempted to like him, but had reason for
not yielding him friendship on a sudden. Yet
it was indisputable that the sternness with which
he had thought of Joe from the time at which
he had first heard of him had vanished. He
blamed, but he pitied as much as he blamed.
He felt impelled to a liking which might be
larger than his pity. It had seemed natural to
picture the lost husband as an altogether empty
and self-satisfied creature, who, having gratified
the freak of a month, was willing to go away
and let a woman suffer for his sake for a lifetime
; but it was not easy to believe in that picture
in the presence of the original it libelled.

The two reached Wrethedale, and by-mutual
consent parted like strangers on the
platform. Joe had packed but a small portmanteau
for the journey, and, taking this in
hand, he walked into the main street of the old-fashioned
town, and cast about for a place to
stay in. In a little time he chanced upon an
inn, and entering, demanded supper and a bed.
He sent the meal away almost untasted, and
rambled about the streets, looking up at the
lights in the houses, and wondering whether
Dinah lived in this house or in that. He roamed
till bedtime through the quiet ways of the town,
scarcely meeting a human creature. When he
slept it was to dream all night of things that
had happened years ago, and in his dreams at
least the time from his leaving England until his
return was blotted out, and he was young again.

After breakfast next morning he rambled
out with a cigar in his mouth, and was conscious
of the fact that he created a sensation in
the .rear of many curtained windows. There
were not many people in the street, but as he
sauntered slowly on he was aware of an old,

old man, with spindle legs and a rotund waistcoat,
who pottered along the cobbled footway,
supported on one side by a handsome young
woman, and on the other by a walking-stick.
The old fellow looked up at stalwart Joe as he
went by, and the idle stranger made a guess at
his identity. Feigning to check himself in his
walk as if he had just remembered something,
Joe turned back and passed the pair with a lively
step, without looking at either of them. In a
hundred yards he came to a tobacconist's shop,
and entered. Whilst he stood there fingering
and pricing unsociable cigars, rightly called
weeds ' by the Wrethedale youth who bought
them, he kept an eye upon the street, and
when the old man and the handsome girl went
by, he said to the showman : —

That's an old fellow, now.'

6 Yes, sir,' said the showman.

Your oldest inhabitant, I should say,' continued
Joe, fishing with simple cunning.

No, sir,' returned the man. ' Not as there's
many older folks in the town neither. But the
old gentleman's a new resident here, sir.'

Indeed,' said Joe ; and not seeing his way
to any further questioning, he bought half-a-dozen
of the unsmokeables, and went out with
a polite ' Good-morning.'

Youth and age were thirty or forty yards
away when Joe, who had prolonged his business
as much as possible, emerged from the
tobacconist's shop. He followed slowly, lingering
to stare in at shop windows, where there
was nothing in particular to attract his gaze, and
pausing sometimes to look at the front of an
old house covered with timber, and hanging
somewhat over the street. By these devices he
accommodated his pace to that of the pair in
front, and every now and then he sent a glance
in their direction. All these years had made
such changes that he could not be quite certain,
but he thought he recognised old Daniel. But
who was the handsome girl, and what could have
brought old Daniel into association with one
who looked so far removed from him? Joe
was almost sure of Daniel, and the more he
watched him, the more clearly he seemed to
see the old gait and the old figure, altered as

they were. The town High Street is not very-long,
and slowly as they went they soon came
to the end of the shops, and reached a little
range of semi-detached villas. At the gate of
one of these paused the pair whose steps Joe
was watching, and the girl gently helped the
old fellow to mount to the gravelled pathway.
Saunter as slowly as he could, they were only
half-way up this pathway when Joe came level
with them. The door of the house opened,
and a voice spoke.

Well, father, how do you feel after your
walk ? '

4 I'm a bit fagged, Diner,' piped Daniel in
his hoarse and shaky treble.

Joe looked and knew her, and sauntered
by, with a head suddenly averted. There had
been no need of the spoken name. There had
been scarcely need for a sight of the face.
The voice he remembered so well sounded
unchanged in his ears. She looked her a^e —
his passing glance, swiftly taken as it was, had
told him that — and yet how little altered by
the years she seemed ! As she had spoken to

her father she had smiled, and Joe thought he
might have seen the smile for the last time
yesterday, it seemed so much the same.

As he walked away with his head a little
drooping, all the past unrolled itself before
him like a panorama. He had resigned himself
years ago to believe that his father and
mother were dead, and at rest from the trouble
he had caused them, and he knew now, and
had known always, that when their grey hairs
reached the grave, he had hurried their going.
He had never been hard-hearted, never the
man to sin with impunity, and his folly and
wickedness had been with him always, though
never so heavily as now. There was no
extenuation for himself in his own mind, no
blame for anybody but Joe Bushell.

He knew nothing of the topography of the
place, of course, but he struck into the fields
on the right-hand side of the road, and making
a long detour reached the far end of the town
in a walk of three or four hours. It did not
seem easy to pass the house again, and when
he had reached the inn he was tied to his

chamber until twilight fell. But then the longing
of his heart drove him to the semi-detached
villa, and he walked up and down in the dark
before the gate, and heard a voice singing in the
front room where a lamp was lighted. Where
he stood he could hear the words quite clearly.
1 Entreat me not to leave thee, nor co return
from following after thee.' The musical setting
was not such as would satisfy a student of the
modern school, but it did the immortal words
no wrong in the listener's ears, and the voice
that sang was sweet and true. A great artist
might do the words more wrong than this
simple liquid voice could do them. The voice
was not that of Joe's wife as he knew, but it
came from the house she lived in, and it seemed
to his heart to breathe her longing and faithfulness.
He pushed open the gate, and, like
Arden in Tennyson's story, he crept up the
pathway and peeped through the window, at a
little crevice of light between the casement and
the blind. There he saw at the piano the girl
who had given her arm to Daniel in the street
that morning, and in a corner of the room

Daniel himself looking frail, very old, and remarkably
uninterested. Dinah sat behind the
lamp, and the watcher could make out nothing
of her until she arose and moved to the piano,
where she laid a hand upon the musician's
shoulder and spoke to her. Then Joe had a
complete view of her face and looked his fill at
it, till a step in the roadway startled him and
he crouched lower, trusting to be unseen. As
it happened, however, the owner of the footstep
paused before the low wall, vaulted it noiselessly,
dropping on the grass, and, advancing
swiftly on tiptoe, touched Joe on the shoulder
as he rose to meet the new-comer.

I guessed it might be you,' said John Keen
in a whisper, ' but I was not sure, and I was
bound to see.'

Joe nodded and went on tiptoe down the
gravelled pathway. John followed, and when
they reached the road the younger man took
the other's arm ; they walked together for some
distance without speaking, with their backs
turned to the town.

6 How did you find out the house ? ' John
asked in a low tone. Something which he was

not careful to analyse made him speak softly,
as one does by instinct in a church.

4 I saw old Daniel go in this morning, 1
answered Joe, and again they walked in silence
for a time. ' Mr. Keen,' said Joe after that
pause, • I shall go back in the morning, and see
Cheston. Advise me in the meantime. Can
we do anything ? '

I have been thinking,' John returned.
1 There is a friend of mine in Melbourne who
was at school with me and with your son. He
knows nothing of what has happened, and I
might wire to him to see if he could tell us
anything of George.' •

4 Do anything that suggests itself,' said Joe,
hopelessly. 4 There need be no care about
money in the matter. By the way ' — he felt it
absurd to affect to speak in that casual fashion,
and yet he could not help it — ' are they well-to-do?'
giving his head a backward nod.

4 Your wife and her father? ' John asked him.

4 Yes.'

4 Daniel Banks is almost wealthy.'

4 1 was thinking,' Joe explained, 4 that she

vol. m. c

might find money useful if we could have
found a way to give it her.'

She does not want for money,' answered
John, speaking brusquely.

6 Well,' Joe resumed, ' I shall go back tomorrow.
If there is anything to say write to
Cheston. He will let me know. There's nothing
uncommon in my name, but if anybody heard
it and associated it with me down there, it would
be troublesome.'

Mr. Bushell,' said John, stopping short in
the dark road, and speaking like one who
chooses his words carefully : ' I have no right
to interfere in your affairs. When I first heard
of your marriage and your disappearance I
thought ill of you, but since I met you
I have changed my opinions — partly. I say
again, I have no right to interfere in your
affairs : and still I clo so. You can stop me by
a word.' He paused, but Joe said nothing. ' I
have persuaded myself that your chief anxiety
now is to do everything that can be done to
rectify the wrongs you once did unthinkingly,
or carelessly, and in the folly of youth.'

c Not unthinkingly nor carelessly,' said Joe
to himself, though not a word escaped his lips ;
8 but with my eyes open, and knowing that I
was a villain all along.'

If I am right in thinking as I do,' said John,
after waiting vainly for an answer, ' I have one
question to put to you.' He paused again.

< Go on.'

8 If it could be shown to you that in the circumstances
of the case it is your clear duty to
acknowledge yourself to your wife, and to associate
yourself with her in the endeavour to
recover your own, would you do it ? '

I have only one duty left,' said Joe.

'And that is ?'

To do the best thing for her happiness.
Understand me. To go back to her would bea
pain and a humiliation. But I am not afraid
of the pain and humiliation. I am afraid of
adding to the unhappiness she has already suffered.
I have been dead in her fancy. for many
years past, and whatever grief I cost her is done
with long ago. If she finds that after all I
have been alive and have still kept away

why should I revive a trouble which has been
dead this twenty years ? '

I have known your wife,' said John, ' ever
since I was a little fellow eight or nine years
old, when George and I first went to school
together. I know how blameless and gentle
a life she has lived, and I know partly how
unhappy she has been. And if I am not a
greater ass than ever lived before, she is as
truly attached to you still as she was when you
went away.'

To my memory. Not to me,' Joe answered
with a heaving breast. ' I was two-and-twenty
then ; I am over eight-and-forty now.
I'm not the man she loved. I'm not the man
she knew.'

1 Mr. Bushell,' said the young lawyer, clear-ins
his voice of a slight huskiness before he
spoke, ' if I had not been forced (against my
will) to believe you after all a man with a good
heart, a man who desires to make reparation
for a wrong of such old standing, I would as
soon bite my tongue off as speak one w r ord to
bring you two together. I don't remember my
mother, sir, and I never hac 1 a sister of my own,

and your wife, in a way, took the place they
might have filled in my fancy when I was a lad,
and there are not many people in the world
w T hose welfare is so dear to me. I believe yon
are an honest fellow, sir, in spite of what happened
so many years since, and if yon can find
it in your heart to be good to her in the future,
and to spend your life, as you ought to spend it,
in consoling her for all that she has undergone
and suffered, I know you ought to do it. I ama
young man, Mr. Shell, and under other
circumstances I hope I should speak with less
confidence and more reserve. Perhaps it might
seem to fit my age and yours better if I held
my tongue altogether ; but I am fond of your
wife, sir, and I respect her as highly as anybody
in the world, and that is all the excuse I
have to offer.'

You need offer no excuse,' Joe replied
huskily. ' You have not said a word that I can
find fault with. You have spoken as a man
ought to speak.'

4 I have some knowledge,' John resumed,
with a new hesitation in his tone at first, ' of the
young lady to whom your wife first gave her

confidence. I know enough of her to be sure
that if the secret of your presence in this country
were entrusted to her it would be kept, sacredly,
and as a trust of honour. With that knowledge
in her power she could be relied upon — I am
sure of it — to approach your wife and ascertain
her feeling, and I could rely upon her to conduct
the matter with so much tact that no
suspicion would be excited.'

John's admiration of Ethel and his belief in
her had no bounds which it is worth while hereto
attempt to discover, but the returned exile
could hardly be expected to share his faith in
her. He said nothing, but even through the
darkness John felt his distrust and hurried on.

6 You will not forget your own contention,
Mr. Bush ell, that for many years your wife has
had good reason to believe you dead. It will
not be easy except on direct evidence to
persuade her that you are still alive. It cannot
be easy for her to suspect the truth if the talk
concerning you is led by a woman she loves,
and is led naturally and without haste.'

6 Give me time to think,' said Joe.

8 1 will ask you one more question, Mr.

Busliell,' John continued. ' Are you convinced
in your own mind that if your presence would
be hailed by her, as I believe it would be, as a
help and a solace, that you could surrender
yourself to be a help and solace to her. If you
are uncertain of yourself in that respect, I will
not press you by another word

c Mr. Keen,' Joe answered with a broken
voice, ' if I could undo the wrong I did I would
lay down my life, though that is saying little.
If I could lighten the burden she has to bear by
but ever so little I would make any sacrifice
that might be offered me. I don't speak unthinkingly
or melodramatically in saying so ; I
mean it from my soul. But I will lay no new
burden on her. How could I after all that she
has suffered ? '

4 If she were glad to take you back again
John pressed him still. ' If you knew that it
would lighten the weight she has to bear to have
you back ? It is no light thing in itself to sink
to an unloved and lonely age. Even if George
w r ere found and provided for and sent away, do
you think she would be happy, and in no need
of comfort ? Is she in no need of comfort now ? '

4 What comfort is it in my power to bring
her ? A runaway nearly six-and-twenty years
back, never since heard of. No, no, no. You
tempt me to act on my own selfish longings,
not to heal her wounds, poor thing.'

His voice was but half audible, and regrets
and longings, and new-born hopes that hardly
dared to hope, and fears that slew them as
they lifted their weak heads, made a strange
tumult in his heart.

There was no make-believe in the husky
voice. True men are quick to read such things,
and John knew the sincerity of every word the
other spoke. There was little passion in the
phrases used, but the man was true and meant
it all, and more. And this conviction could
only spur the younger. It is something to an
ingenuous youngster, whom the world has not
yet chilled, to think that he can bring two sore
hearts to peace and healing.

4 Will you let ne try to help you, Mr.
Bushell ? ' he pleaded.

Not in the way you propose,' said Joe,
lifting his head in the darkness. ' There is too
much danger to her peace in it.'

1 In any other way ? ' John pressed him.

4 In any way that helps her,' Joe responded,
'but in no way that endangers her peace of
mind. I trust you, Mr. Keen. I am compelled
to trust you, but I could do it willingly
without that. I have confidence in you.'

You shall not find it misplaced,' said
John.

I am sure of it,' replied Joe. ' In the
meantime I dare stay here no longer. Wire to
Melbourne and let me know the result of your
inquiries. Place at the cable office at this end
whatever sum may be needed for a full reply.
I will go back with you now and lay money in
your hands for that purpose. Wherever it is
necessary to spend money in this inquiry, spend
it without fear. For my own part I can do
nothing better than to go back and watch for
my uncle George's recovery.'

The lawyer saw that it was useless just then
to press him further. Joe laid plenteous funds
at his disposal, and next day he disappeared
from Wrethedale as he had arrived — a figure
for a minute's gossip, but beyond that unnoticed
and unknown.

CHAPTER XXVII.

So Dinah's longing heart went on unsatisfied in
the old way, and was fed by little food of
earthly hope or comfort. She had never resigned
herself to forget Joe, but he was dead or
beyond all earthly chance of meeting any more,
and there were no new sorrows possible on that
count. So far Joe was right. Had her son
been what he should have been, Dinah, in spite
of the great trouble of her youth, would have
been a fairly happy woman. The deepest
wounds heal at last if they do not kill before
the healing process can begin.

Now I am not the first historian by many
who has found himself involved in chronological
difficulties, and like others I can only rely upon
my reader's patience and discernment. When I
had had young George eight or nine weeks in
England, and had at last left him face to face

with Ethel, I was compelled to go back to the
hour of his arrival to show what his father had
been doing in the meantime.

The two, meeting in this way, stood rooted
each before the other. A cur, so caught,
would have had the manliness to put his tail
between his legs and run, but the tramp was
incapable of even so much resolution as would
command a flight. In the girl's mind fear and
amazement, and hate and wrath, and pity, made
a jumble of all thought, and left her also helpless.
She had of course believed him still under
lock and key, but, though she could scarce
believe their evidence, her eyes told her he was
here. And being here, what could have brought
him but one thing? — and that one thing the
desire to make an appeal to Dinah. Perhaps
he had made an escape from prison. That
indeed seemed the only solution of the mystery
of his presence there, and, if it were so, he was
proscribed and hunted.

As was natural, the noble nature recovered
from the shock of this encounter whilst the
abject one was yet stunned.

4 How do you come here ? ' she asked ;
have you escaped ? '

His knees shook and he stared at her, until
he hung his head before her glance and began
to weep again.

Have you escaped ? ' she repeated, breathlessly.


No,' the wretched creature answered. ' I
was released. But I can get nothing to do, and
I am starving.'

She sent her hand hastily to the pocket of
her dress and found her purse there. Glancing
into it she saw two or three pieces of gold and
a little heap of silver. His face seemed to have
a dreadful fascination for her and to draw her towards
him. She advanced little by little with
the purse in her outstretched hand.

Here,' she said, and dropping it into the
hand he held out to receive it she recoiled,
looking at him still with her hazel eyes widened
to a glance of horror.

I don't deserve it,' the tramp moaned and
snuffled womanlike through his tears. ' I don't
deserve it.'

4 Why are 3-011 here ? ' she asked. The
sight of him was a terror and a horror to her,
but what could she do ? ' You shall not show
yourself to Dinah whilst you look like that.
You would kill her ! '

This hit him like a blow and stopped his
tears for a second or two. He stole a glance at
her and dropped his eyes shifty.

1 Is she here ? ' he found courage to ask.

4 Go,' she answered him, 4 and write to meat
the Post Office so that I can get the letter in
the morning. Tell me where you are that I
can send an answer. But don't stay in the town.'

1 What is the name of the town ? ' he made
shift to ask.

She told him and repeated her bidding.

4 Go. Buy some clothes, and write to me
to-night.'

With that she turned from him and fairly
ran down hill towards the town, but nearing
the houses she dropped her veil and composed
her gait. When she reached her own room she
locked herself in and struggled in silence
through an attack of hysteria, and then descended,

pale, and with a glittering light in her
eyes.

Why, our Ethel,' cried her mother, ' what's
happened to yon ? Yon look as if you'd seen
a ghost.'

Ethel tried to laugh at this, with such ill
success that in spite of resolution hysteria began
again.

What happened to you? ' the mother cried
anew, when after a minute or so Ethel had
recovered herself.

Ethel's conscience would not tolerate a lie,
but she could not tell the whole truth.

1 was frightened,' she said, ' and I ran.'

6 You frightened ? ' cried her mother. The
good woman had never heard of such a thing
before, for Ethel was not of the female tribe
who squeal at spiders, and experience in the
presence of a mouse such terrors as might once
have seized the people of Herculaneum. ' What
frightened you ? '

I met a tramp,' said Ethel faintly.

Why, was he rude to you ? ' cried the old
woman.

No,' answered Ethel, unable to tell all.
It was a lonely place and he begged, that was
all.'

You mustn't take them rambling' walks
abroad, my love,' said her mother solicitously.
It ain't fit for maids to go about alone. You
should ha' somebody with you.'

All the evening long she harped upon the
theme, and would scarce release Ethel from the
house in the morning until she received assurance
that nothing more was meant than a
walk along the High Street.

The girl approached the Post Office with
some inward reluctance. It would not be nice
for anybody to think that she received letters
there without her mother's knowledge — even
that the postmaster should think it was anything
but pleasant to her. And there by ill-fortune
was young lawyer Keen talking with
the official when Ethel entered. It was more
and more awkward to ask for the letter in his
presence, but, giving him a cold little bow, she
passed to the counter.

6 Have you a letter for me, addressed here ? '

Yes, Miss.'

The postmaster produced it. John saw that
it was addressed in a male handwriting, and
thought no more about it for the time. Ethel
with another cold little bow responded to his
renewed salute, and went home with her letter.
When she came to read it she discovered that
the writer had wept all over it, and it was so
splashed and blotched as to be decipherable
only after difficulty. In some matters heart is
taste. The hapless young man began this
letter — 4 My lost love, lost for ever ! ' — with a
note of admiration scored in after the final
letter, as if he had been writing for the
printers. A shiver of disgust ran through the
girl's frame as she read this exordium. The
writer went on to say (as in the letter addressed
to John Keen) that he offered no
excuses, feeling conscious that he had none
to offer — adding that he knew he was unworthy
of her — at which the reader crawled
afresh — but that his sins had entailed a terrible
punishment. He threw in one or two phrases
of Scripture — 'I have sinned before heaven

and against thee,' and ' My punishment is
greater than I can bear ' — and he wound up
by saying that he had re-attired himself, was
staying at Borton at the sign of the Hare and
Hounds, in Wedge Street, and remained forever
her miserable and unworthy George.
Then came a postscript, in which he stated
that he had expended almost all the money
she had so generously given him, and expressed
in fitting terms that form of gratitude which
has been defined as a sense of favours to
come.

As for love's idol, that was long since
broken, and the worshipper was still sorely
wounded by the shards. But in women's
hearts sometimes, in spite of any and all
wrong-doing on the part of the idol's original,
there lingers a tenderness for what he was or
seemed to be in the days when the poor
image was first modelled, and gilded with
the gold of the devotee's own nature. And in
spite of Ethel's hatred and contempt there
had lingered until now a certain starved and
hungry sentiment (which would have been

VOL. III. D

faith if it could) in favour of a lost George
whom she had known to be manly and honest,
and indeed filled with all noble qualities, only
a. little while ago. But whatever tendrils of
the heart sought to reach and touch the past,
the brutal egotism and vile unconscious insolence
of this epistle blighted them for ever.

She folded up the sheet of blotted and
tear-soiled paper, put it in its envelope, walked
into the garden, passed through the wicket
gate into Dinah's small territory, and so into the
house. She had not slept all night, but her
eyes shone with an unusual brilliance and her
cheeks were flushed with clear colour. Dinah,
who was in the back kitchen, superintending
her little west-country maid, kissed Ethel in a
preoccupied way, and noticed nothing unusual
in her aspect for a minute. But by-and-by,
attracted by her silence, she turned, and saw
at a glance that the girl's whole nature was in
some way strongly stirred.

Come into the sitting' room, my dear,' she
said gently, and moved away, Ethel following.

Daniel sat in the front kitchen with his

feet on the steel fender, and patted the girl's
hand in answer to the passing kiss she gave
him. The kiss was warmer and tenderer than
usual, for they were all knit together by the
same sorrow, she thought.

Dinah,' said Ethel, ' I have brought you
news which you will be relieved to hear
Dinah began to tremble, and the girl put her
arms about her. ' They are not going to keep
your son in prison all the time they said.'

Dinah stood free of her embraces, looking
at her.

8 If it would be any comfort to you, you
can see him.'

Where ? ' said Dinah, ' where ? When are
they going to let him free again ? '

c Can you bear to be told, dear ? ' asked
Ethel. ' They have let him out already.'

Dinah clasped her hands and slipped into a
seat, though but for Ethel's arms guiding her
she would have fallen to the floor. She arose
with shaking knees and trembling hands.

Where is he ? Let me go to him. Let
me see him. Where is he ? '

D 2

8 You can see him to-day, dear, if you will.
He is at Borton, at the Hare and Hounds, in
Wedge Street.'

4 Ethel, my dear,' said Dinah, ' I must go
and see him. He is my child for all he's
been so wicked. I must go and see him.'

8 Yes, darling, yes,' Ethel answered. 8 You
must go. You will go to-day ? '

8 Yes, yes, yes,' declared Dinah, with trembling
eagerness. She seemed to think that some
apology was due to Ethel, for she clung to
her and repeated that he was her child — he
was her child after all. And, to tell the truth,
the poor thing's soul was rent between her
horror of her child and the blind yet holy
instinct of motherhood which drew her to him
in spite of his wickedness. She shared to the
full all Ethel's loathing of the crimes — they
had steeled even her heart against him for
an hour — but she remembered all her own
maternal pangs and fears, and his father's far-off
kisses and embraces ; sacred — sacred enough
to sanctify even him. And so the mother's
instinct drew her to his side, willing to share
his shame and bear his burthen.

She was so agitated — as was natural — that
she was compelled to leave to Ethel all arrangements
for the journey, which, though
brief enough, could scarcely be performed
impromptu. There was money to be got for
the prodigal, and this was only to be obtained
from Daniel, whose natural tight-fixedness
increased with age. Ethel explained that
Dinah was going to Borton and wanted money.

8 Her's allays agooin' to Borton,' moaned
Daniel, ' an' her's allays a wanting' money.'

But he surrendered his keys to Ethel after
his customary grumble and sent her upstairs
for his cash-box, having first removed with
infinite fumbling the particular key which
opened it.

8 That'll be enough for her,' said Daniel,
producing a half-sovereign.

'Not at all,' said Ethel disdainfully. Patience
with small vices was not her pet virtue.

8 What's her want it for P ' piped Daniel in
obstinate remonstrance. 8 1 saint agooin' to ha'
my money th rowed about wasteful. No, no.'

4 Mr. Banks,' said Ethel decisively, 8 you
ought to be ashamed of yourself. Dinah

never asks you for a penny unless she really
wants it.'

'Well, what's her want, an' what's her
want it for ? ' he asked.

fc She wants five pounds,' said Ethel.

'Eh?' cried the old fellow in dismay.
'Five pound? Herd like me to die i' the
works, I believe ! '

'Never mind, Mr. Banks.' said Ethel; 'I
can borrow the money from my mother, I daresay.'


4 Eubbidge ! ' said Daniel. ' My gell's beholden
to nobody.'

And with long-drawn reluctance he produced
a five pound note, and having smoothed
it with affectionate fingers, and rustled it
near his ear with finger and thumb, and
held it half-a-dozen times against the light
to admire the water-mark, he surrendered
it. There was nobody in the world but Ethel
who would have succeeded on such terms
with him, but he was in some dread of her
as being 'a cut over ' his own kind of folks,
and he was more obedient to her than to

anybody else. He was going downwards fast
into that second childhood which is robbed of
all the graces of the first, and owns nothing
endearing but its helplessness, and the memory
of what its manhood was, perhaps.

Then there was the time-table to be consulted,
and, since Dinah was going, Daniel's
dinner must be arranged for next door. These
and other little duties of a like sort Ethel took
upon herself, and although there is nothing
per se heroic in getting a five-pound note out
of the fingers of a miserly old man, or in
making arrangements for the old man's dinner,
there have been achievements chronicled in
very glowing language which have deserved
less praise than these simple doings merited
under the circumstances. For the girl's heart
was burning all the time, and every wound
her base lover had given her was throbbing
with new agony. She gave no sign, and that
is woman's heroism.

When Dinah reached the market town she
found Wedge Street opening off the marketplace,
which was alive with stalls and rustic

dealers, a street very broad at its upper end
and very narrow at its lower, where it closed
in with the Hare and Hounds, which seemed
to have been drawn up across it to block the
thoroughfare. As fate willed it, she had no
need to make inquiries after her son, for just
as she crossed the threshold he appeared in
the passage, and they saw each other.

6 Come with me.' she said, tremblingly.
4 We can't talk here.'

They walked up the street and along one
side of the market square, into the town High
Street, and on for half a mile until there were
fields on either side, and there was no one near.
Then they turned into a narrow little lane, and
there the mother threw her arms about the
criminal's neck and lifted up her voice and wept.
I will not say that the tears that filled his eyes
were altogether base and unworthy at that
moment. Some touch of ruth was on him after
all, and lie felt ashamed of himself. As Dinah
hugged him close to her breast and clung to
him, the old barriers which had so long held
back the words gave way.

My child, my George, my son — my own
child ! '

The wretched George standing there like a
lay figure to be hugged, and not having in him,
as yet, the immeasurable insolence to pretend
any love to Dinah in return, was smitten by
these words as by a hammer. And, of course,
the one interpretation he put on them was that
Dinah's mind had somehow become unsettled,
and that she was not answerable for what she
was saying. That one idea which had been in
her mind from the hour when first she had
heard of her boy's arrest was uppermost now.

You were wicked, George,' she sobbed as
she kissed him, and he braced himself to receive
her reproaches with propriety ; ' but it was all
my w T wicked fault as you was tempted. If I'd
ha' been brave an' good, an' let you had your
rights, you'd ha' been a good lad, I know you
would — I know you would, my dear.'

It was evident to George's mind that Dinah
was very mad indeed. Her words meant nothing
to him.

And oh ! ' cried Dinah in an agony of

tears and caresses, ' I never told you as I was
your mother, and of course you never growed
up to love me like a child would ha' done.'

Eeally it was getting time for sanity to
interfere. Trie shock of these extraordinary
notions had for the moment driven George's
humilities out of him. He struggled from her
embraces, though she clung to him hard, and
standing at arm's length he spoke :

Dinah, what are you talking about ? Are
you mad ? '

No, darling', no,' she answered. ' Oh,
George, forgive me. I've been a wicked
woman.'

In the pain of her self accusation she threw
herself upon her knees before him, and in that
attitude she told her story. It sounded incredible
at first, and he held for a minute or
two his first opinion — that Dinah had gone mad.
But as she went on with the tale, and came to
her interview with old George, and his refusal
to believe her, and as the listener's mind grasped
the fact that if the tale were true his mother
owned a full half of George Bushell's fortune,

such a light poured over everything old George
had said and done and seemed that doubt was
impossible. Under that sudden beam of light
old George's one intelligible motive stood revealed,
and a truth which needed no bolstering
was corroborated a half-minute later by the few
and hurried words in which the agonised mother
told of the theft of the certificate. The whole
tale was told so swiftly, and was so broken by
the narrator's sobs, and so tangled by the
listener's sideway guesses here and there, that
half the details miscarried on their way to his
intelligence, but the main truth of it stood like
a pyramid, dominant and unshakable. He saw
it and his head whirled, and he gasped at it.
The felon of little more than half a year ago,
the penniless and starving tramp of yesterday,
was the rightful heir to a quarter of a million
of money ! He had known — everybody had
known — how much old Joe Bushell had been
worth when he died. Dinah knelt at his feet,
clinging to his knees and pleading with him,
and he never heard her.

Say you forgive me, dear ; say you forgive

me ! Oh, I have been a wicked, wicked woman ;
but only say you forgive me, darling' ! Say you
forgive me!'

He did not answer by a word. A quarter
of a million of money, and he the rightful heir
to it ! That amazing vision shut everything
else from sight. The pleading mother struggled
from her knees and clasped him once more to
her bosom.

6 Say you forgive me, darling' ! Say you forgive
me ! '

Yes, yes,' he answered, with his old fretful
impatience. The news had shaken him into
himself again. He began to see that in place
of being a sinner he had all this time been
sinned against most deeply. Swindled! Juggled
into penitence and tears by the man who strove
to rob him of so vast a sum ! His wrath rose
above even his amazement.

I can't expect you to love me all at once,'
his mother pleaded. ' I can't expect it when
I've been so wicked, but you will love me a bit,
my darling', won't you ? when you've had time.
Won't you ? Won't you ? '

Yes, yes,' he said again impatiently, scarcely
knowing what he answered to.

You shall have your rights, George,' said
unhappy Dinah, fawning on him heart-brokenly.
She had no blame for him that he did not answer
her caresses and her words of endearment. It
was her fault that he had been robbed — not of
a fortune merely, but of a mother. How could
she hope that he would love her all at once ?
4 I've got my lines now, darling,' she wept to him.
1 I've brought 'em with me to show you, so as
you shouldn't misbelieve me.' She drew the
paper from her bosom, and he looked at it,
mechanically at first, but then with understanding.


Every pulse in his body and every current
of his little soul turned one ways, and for once
in his life he threw off every tatter of pretence
and humbug, and spoke the truth as he saw it.

4 My God, Dinah ! ' he cried aloud, ' you
have been a fool, to be sure ! '

CHAPTEE XXVIII.

It was true enough to Dinah's ears and heart,
and only failed of truth in not being harsh
enough. Yes, he had a right to reproach her.
If she had not been wicked he would never
have been tempted, and she saddled herself
with the weight of his misdoings.

As for George, he had been surprised into
candour, and he had time to be sorry for it before
either of them spoke again. It would be
very foolish to kill the fowl of the golden eggs
before a single golden egg was laid. And
apart from that, he was a criminal himself, and
knew that it was proper for him to be lowly in
demeanour. If you will look at it, the young
man's position was embarrassing. Dinah could
scarcely expect to have the truth thrown at her
in this rough and ready way, and yet she could
scarcely expect that George would throw himself

at once into her arms, and accept her proclamation
of relationship with filial rapture.

I suppose I have told enough of this young
man's story to establish pretty clearly the fact
that lie was — in King Solomon's sense at least
a fool. But he was clear-headed enough to
comprehend the situation by a single motion
of the mind, a motion swift and complex.
Intellect and wisdom are no synonyms, and the
lad had brains enough. He held good cards.
How many tricks could he carry ?

Dinah was crying passionately at his
righteous rebuke, and was struggling passionately
to repress her tears. George took time
to think.

I didn't know, my darling,' she sobbed at
last. ' It was my ignorance as did it. I
wouldn't ha' robbed you of a farthing' o' your
rights, no, not to be Queen of England, if I'd
only known.'

8 1 beg your pardon for having spoken so,'
said George in answer. So keen a young man
could not fail to see that as long as Dinah lived
she must hold the purse-strings.

1 I've brought a bit o' money with me now,
dear,' said the tearful mother; 'as much as I
could get father to let me have. But you'll be
able to do on it for a bit, an' I must get you
Sine more.'

She drew out her little purse and emptied
it, and the young man accepted the gift with as
good a grace as he could summon. It would
not do to show too much impatience at first,
though the idea of offering the rightful heir to
a quarter of a million an advance so miserably
inadequate was preposterous enough to have
made any man angry. He said ' Thank you,'
and stood with the money in one hand and his
mother's certificate of marriage in the other.
A little sense of shamefacedness touched him.
The action of pocketing the gift bade fair to interfere
with his martyrdom.

As he stood thus looking downward, a little
sick from late privation, later excess, and the
emotion of the last hour, his eyes fell upon
the written words 'Joseph Bushell.' A new
sensation sent a tide of crimson to his face,
both hands went suddenly up to hide it, and he

groaned and actually cowered. For like a
Hash of lightning there crossed him for the
first time the memory of the insane and pretentious
lies he had told his father in America.
And with that curdling remembrance came the
fear that his father would seek out his mother,
and would be brought face to face with him.
That thought, I am rejoiced to believe, could
have been nothing less than horrible. It was
certain in the cowering criminal's mind that
Cheston would long since have exploded the
pretence, and Joseph Bush ell would probably
be looking somewhat eagerly for the man who
had deceived him. Now, George could see
why the middle-aged stranger in the New York
hotel had enquired after Dinah Banks and had
played about his memories of the Saracen.
Now he could see why that supreme old villain
George Bushell had written to say that Dinah
had married, and he could see too why his father
had resolved on returning to England after so
long an exile. Everything was clear as noonday,
and nothing was clearer than this — that in
spite of the wrongs that had been done him by

VOL. III. E

his mother, he was not a martyr to his father's
eyes or likely to look like one. And — terrible
fancy! only too probably to be realised, —
would not his father claim his own from
George Bushell the elder, and would not he,
George Bushell the younger, be left scornfully
and contemptuously in the cold as payment for
the poor fraud he had practised ? It was no
wonder when all this rushed upon him in one
sickening torrent of dismay and shame, that he
blushed and hid his face and groaned.

To Dinah the whole thing looked like repentance,
and more than ever her motherly,
tender, self-accusing heart yearned over the
scamp before her, and she threw her arms
about him and wept above him, with tears of
agony and holy joy, and covered with hungry
kisses the hands that hid his face.

Try to be good, my dear. Try to be
sorry, an' God'll forgive you, my poor suffering'
child. That's right, my darling' ! Cry a bit.
It'll ease your heart, my poor dear darling'
George.'

And clinging to him still, she began to pray

in broken murmurs for forgiveness for herself
and him ; and holy heroism and base vice
ashamed mingled their tears together.

Whatever joy the angels feel over a sinner
turned from the evil of his ways, was hers in
that moment, and it atoned for much. There
was no thought in her mind that the world
owed her an atonement, and so, the blessing
coming as a gift, and not claimed as a desert,
was multiplied a thousand times in sweetness.
It is more blessed to give than to receive. She
gave forgiveness.

Dinah was safe anyhow, even if the newly-discovered
father should appear again and
intervene. So ran the rascal's thoughts. It
was his part now to crook the pregnant hinges
of the knee where thrift might follow fawning.
It was not easy to be affectionate to Dinah all
at once, even though she had proclaimed herself
his mother, and not his sister. But it was
little trouble to receive her caresses, since the
mere endurance of them bade fair to be profitable.


What with hope and fear and rage and

E 2

LIBRARY

wonder and the sickness of privation and excess,
he was in a condition pitiable to behold.
Dinah, feeding her life-long hunger upon her
own avowal of motherhood, translated penitence
into him and affection, and all worthy
shame and trembling honest hopes, and loved him
for the attributes her own fancy gave him. In
his mind, the first shock of remembrance being
over, there remained a sensation of singular
discomfort, which was yet not without an element
of relief. If he had made an enemy, he
had a friend, and it was likely that the forgery
alone would have been enough to disgust
his father. Dinah would help him to get
abroad again, perhaps, before the much-deceived
father could get hold of him. Some
of the yarns the San Francisco host had told of
his own past life had dealt with rough and
tumble fighting here and there, and Joseph
Bushell, though he had made no boast of the
part he had taken in such enforced frays as he
had mentioned, had worn a look whilst he
spoke of them which seemed to betoken a
certain joy in battle. He was a big broad-shouldered

fellow, and could probably have broken
young George across his knee like a dry stick.
George confessed within himself that he had
given provocation, and in case of his father's
appearance on the scene he was prepared to
run and trust to Dinah's generosity for supplies.


1 You'd best stay in the same place for a
bit, my dear,' said his mother, wiping her eyes,
and speaking still with a sobbing catch in her
voice, ' an' I'll get more money an' send it to
you. I don't know what fatherly say when he
knows, an' I doubt he'll be hard at first.'

George answered nothing, but took advantage
of his search for a pocket-handkerchief to
slip her gift into his pocket, and with his eyes
hidden, stretched forth the copy of the marriage
certificate towards his mother. She took it
from him and folded it, and at that moment the
noise of a horse's feet disturbed them both.
They turned towards the town, walking slowly,
and a horseman passed them without notice.
Even so slight an incident helped to restore
their self-possession, and Dinah a minute later

kissed him tenderly and bade him good-bye for
the time being. He returned her caress for
the first time since he had been a mere lad, and
the mother's heart stored up that mercenary
kiss and counted it in his favour. She dropped
her veil and walked away without looking
back again, and George strolled about the lanes
to wear off the traces of his discomposure
before returning to the town. Apart from his
father, his troubles at last seemed over, but
there was enough of doubt in the case to keep
his heart in a continual flutter.

Now, being ignorant of John Keen's change
of residence, our young rascal had addressed
his letter to the old home town, and the postmaster
there had forwarded it, so that on the day
of Dinah's encounter with her son the lawyer
had received the unexpected and astounding
news of the 'lost prisoner's presence in England.
With the letter in his pocket-book, he took
train for the midland capital, and there found
Joseph Bushell at his hotel in mournful consultation
with Cheston.

6 Read that, Mr. Bushell,' he said, laying
down the epistle before him.

4 What is it ? ' asked Joe, taking it up.
4 Hilloo ! ' he exclaimed, as his eye fell upon the
superscription, ' this is uncommonly like the
fist of that soi-disant brother of yours,
Cheston.'

Eh ? ' cried the Baronet. ' Nonsense !
You don't say so ? What's he got to say for
himself?'

The letter is from your son, Mr. Bushell,'
said John Keen gravely. ' I received it to-day.
To-morrow he will call at the Post-Office at
Borton for an answer. Before answering it I
consult you. Pray read it.'

Joe read it, and his face grew white.
With bent head and gaze fixed upon the floor
he pushed it across to Cheston.

What do you make of it? ' he asked after
a pause.

I'll tell you what I make of it,' shouted
Cheston, rising and striking the table with a
heavy hand. ' That thundering old rascal of
an uncle of yours never gave the lad a penny

after all, but got him free and turned him loose.
Gave him the slip, the old fox, I'll bet a thousand
pounds ! '

4 We shall see,' Joe answered, still staring
at the floor. After a while he lifted his pale
face and looked at Keen. 4 Will you go to
Borton with me to meet him ? '

4 Most willingly,' said John.

4 Will you start now ? By the next train ? '

4 Certainly.'

4 1 am using you very cavalierly, old friend ,'
said Joe with a pitiable forced smile at Cheston ;
asking you here to dinner and then running
away from you in this fashion.'

4 You don't want an army with you,' returned
Cheston, 4 or I'd volunteer. I wish you
success, and if I can do anything for you here
or anywhere, command me.'

4 No,' Joe answered. 4 1 don't think you
can do anything.'

It was plain that his thoughts were faraway
from his speech, and Cheston, taking
Joe's right hand in both his own, shook it with

great heartiness, and left his old friend and the
young lawyer to themselves.

I I believe, Mr. Keen,' said Joe miserably
enough, c that the writer of this letter is the
young man I met in America — the man who
pretended to be Cheston's brother. The handwritings
are alike, and the young fellow I met
was intimately acquainted with the district,
and knew all the people.

I I suppose that if you saw a photograph
you would know,' said John.

Certainly,' Joe returned.

4 If you will go on to Borton,' John continued,
' I will stop at Wrethedale, and join you
an hour or two later, bringing a photograph
with me. You don't know the town I suppose ? '

'No,' said Joe. 'I was never there in my
life.'

'You had better put up at the Hare and
Hounds in Wedge Street,' said John. ' A very
quiet quaint old house, not the best in the
town, but opposite the Post-office, and convenient
for our purpose. I will join you there.'

Joe had little heart for converse outside
the theme that filled his mind, and but little
heart indeed to speak of that more than seemed
needful. So the journey was made quietly,
and from the little station at Wrethedale Joe
travelled on alone. He went to the house to
which he had been directed, carrying his own
portmanteau, and asked for a bedroom. The
rosy chambermaid led him up a flight of old
oak steps, and along a corridor full of traps
in the way of descending and ascending
stairs, and finally landed him in a queer
three-cornered room with an outlook on the
garden.

Anything to eat, sir ? ' asked the rosy
chambermaid.

'Not yet,' said the guest, and being left
alone, he opened the window, lit a cigar, and
began to smoke sadly. He had kept his son's
letter to John Keen, and he now read it over
and over again. It was terrible to think that the
crime and folly which had brought his son to
the pass therein described were chiefly traceable
to him, and yet he could scarce do otherwise

than think so. It was natural in him to accuse
himself for all. ' I am destitute,' so he read :
my feet are bare, my clothes in rags . . . I
am compelled to move about from place to
place to get workhouse shelter and a casual
tramp's poor fare.' How was Joe to say that
his son had deserved to suffer in this way?
Give everybody his deserts and would he
escape whipping ?

He sat thinking thus, and bearing a heavy
punishment for the misdoing of his youth until
John Keen rejoined him.

1 Have you brought the photograph ? ' Joe
asked, recognising John in the darkness.

'Yes. Wait a minute whilst I light a
candle. Is that the man ? '

That was the man sure enough. Not an
ill-looking man either, by any means. A
young man who held his head aloft rather
haughtily, and who imposed upon the beholder
with a certain pretence of being a great deal
handsomer than he really w r as, as is the way
with some people.

Yes,' said Joe. ' This is the man who

called himself George Cheston when I met him
in the States.'

It is my old schoolfellow and companion
George Banks,' said John ; ' your son, George
Bushell.'

The unhappy father nodded and set down
the photograph.

'He mustn't see me in the morning until
you have him safely,' he said after a long pause.
1 He might want to run away from me again.
He has been a bad lot, Mr. Keen, but I must do
the best I can with him. I'll fasten a weekly
allowance on him in such a way that he can't
forestall it, and that will keep him honest — in
money matters.'

You'll have some dinner, Mr. Bushell ? '
asked John.

'Yes,' said Joe. 'You'd better order it.
Have you got a room ? '

Not yet,' John answered, pulling at the
bell. ' I'll see about one now.'

The rosy chambermaid appearing, the
young lawyer went away with her to see after
his room and order dinner, and Joe smoked on

by the light of his solitary candle, staring at the
photograph and failing to read in it any sign of
the wickedness its original had shown. After a
lapse of half an hour or so, John returned and
found him thus employed.

Dinner is ready,' said he. ' Shall we go
down ? '

Joe assented and John led the way. The
coffee-room was a good-sized oblong chamber
panelled with old oak and dimly illuminated by
a dozen candles. One guest was there before
them, a young man dressed in a cheap-looking
tweed suit which fitted him none too well.
He was standing at the fire regarding a sporting
print above the mantelpiece, and his back
was turned to the new-comers. Without
moving his head he addressed the waitress,
who in clean white apron and cap was going
round the table, touching the knives and
forks.

1 I say,' said the young man in the tweed
suit, ' bring me another bottle of that claret,
and take the chill off it this time, will you ?
You can take it into the billiard-room, and you

can let me have one or two of your best cigars
at the same time.'

There was nothing very amazing in the
speech just cited, but at the very first words of
it the new-comers started, and stared with wondering
eyes upon each other.

'Your dinner, gentlemen,' said the neat
waitress.

Joe nodded, and she bustled from the
room.

'Stand by the door,' Joe whispered, and
John with a backward step felt for the key
and turned it in the lock.

Joe walked swiftly up the room and at the
very second when the young man in the tweed
suit turned round at the noise of the shooting
bolt he laid a hand like a vice upon each arm,
and said,

So, Mr. Cheston.'

The merest shadow of an attempt to free
himself showed the young man that flight was
out of the question. But if force could not
avail him, was it not possible that finesse might
serve ? Perhaps Joseph Bushell might be

bluffed ' into the belief that he had been led
away by an astonishing likeness.

Sir,' he returned therefore, with an indignant
drawing up of his figure, ' you have the
advantage of me.'

George, my lad,' said Joe grimly, ' if you
lie to me, or attempt to lie to me again, I'll
break every bone in your body.'

Since he had known of a son's existence he
had pictured many meetings with him, but
none like this.

So you're destitute, are you ? ' Joe went
on ; ' your feet are bare — your clothes in rags.
You move about from place to place to get
workhouse shelter and a casual tramp's poor
fare ! Whom have you robbed now ? Who
is your last quarry ? Keen,' he cried with an
almost hysteric bitterness, ' look at this fellow.
This forger and impostor, and liar, who knows
neither of us. Shouldn't I be a happy man to
come home after six and twenty years of exile
and find a son like this ! '

And having said this, he was moved by
an impulse which I will not characterise. He

swung the impostor round and kicked him into
a corner of the room, where he lay in a heap,
guarding his head with his arms ; and Joe
towered over him with a rage amounting to
pure anguish in his heart.

If I had met this hound in trouble,' he
began — and there his own accusing conscience
staggered him so that he had nothing more to
say, but he ground his teeth and clenched his
hands in a miserable compound of remorse and
anger. George gathered himself into smaller
compass in his corner, and eyed his assailant
with watchful tremor. John put himself
between assailant and assailed, but did it in a
casual and unostentatious way.

If I had met him in trouble,' Joe began
again. ' If I had seen him as I expected to
see him, I could have had some kindliness for
him, and some forgiveness for him.' He made
a motion of despair and misery, and John, not
reading it rightly, gave a brisk step forward.
c I shan't hit him again,' cried Joe, observing
this sign. ' Stand up, you melancholy dog,
stand up ! '

The melancholy dog, with furtive fear in
his eyes, stood up.

'Now,' said his father, ' if I find you trying
to deceive me again, I'll hand you over to the
police for the trick you played me in the
States, and thrash you within an inch of your
life before I do it. Will you oblige me, Mr.
Keen, by unlocking the door ? There is someone
knocking at it. Sit down, sir.'

George, with his fears still furtively peeping
from his eyes, sat down, and John unlocked
the door. The neat maid, a trifle scared,
looked round and announced that the claret
was in the billiard-room.

1 The gentleman is engaged for the present,'
said John blandly. c Will you kindly bring it
here ? '

The girl obeyed, and during her brief
absence not a word was spoken. She looked
from one to the other when she brought in the
wine, and reminded John that the soup was
cooling.

'Thank you,' said John, still bland and
suave. ' We are engaged j list now. We have

VOL. III. F

business with this gentleman. You can send
up the dinner when I ring for it. In the
meantime let us have this room to ourselves.'

The girl disappeared, and John locked the
door again, but pausing with the key in his
hand, he asked,

Would you like to be alone, Mr. Bushell ? '

No,' Joe answered. ' Come here. Now,
sir,' turning upon George, ' I am going to have
the truth out of you by hook or by crook.
What brings you here ? What have you been
doing since you gave me the slip at Liverpool.'

George showed no disposition to begin, but
at a threatening movement on the questioner's
part he opened his narrative.

4 1 went to Newcastle-on-Tyne,' he said,
6 and tried to get employment. But everybody
wanted a certificate of character, and I couldn't
give one. Then I went to Durham, and there
it was the same. So I had to sell my things.'

Mine,' thought Joe, remembering the
stolen portmanteau, but he said nothing.

And I didn't know where my people
were,' pursued the criminal, ' and I had to

wander about the country. I wrote at last to
Mr. Keen when I was nearly dying, but last
night I got to a place called Wrethedale, about
five and twenty miles from here, and '

There he began to weep again.

6 Well ? ' said Joe, sternly.

1 met a lady,' piped the weeping George,

6 a lady I used to know, before ' He drew

forth a pink edged cheap handkerchief and
sobbed into it. ' Mr. Keen knows her. She
gave me nearly four pounds, and I bought some
clothes. I was in rags,' he protested, ' I was
really. And I was nearly dying. Mr. Keen
can ask her if I wasn't

You have had a pretty good dinner,' said
Joe, glancing at the debris on the table, ' and
you can afford your two bottles of claret to it.
And a chateau wine, as I'm alive ! ' he cried,
laying a hand on the mourning George's
second bottle. 'Now, you didn't come here
from Wrethedale and buy those clothes and
pay a day's hotel bill on this scale out of
nearly four pounds. Where did you get the
rest of the money from ? '

No answer.

Or are you going to rob the hotel people ? '

6 No,' cried George. ' I have money to
pay them. Dinah has been here to-day.' This
was addressed to John Keen, and left both his
hearers under the impression that the scamp
was still ignorant of his parentage. But Joe
took that bull by the horns, resolved to have
no more mysteries or misunderstandings than
it seemed unavoidable to leave.

Do you know that you are related to me ?'
he asked, sickening at the question even as he
put it.

Yes,' said the other, still sobbing into the
cheap handkerchief.

Do you know the nature of the relationship
? ' Joe asked again.

Yes,' snuffled George under his breath.

Who told you ? ' Joe demanded.

Dinah told me,' said George, avoiding
his father's eye and directing the answer to
John Keen.

Did she tell you of her own relationship to
you?'

Yes.'

1 When did she tell you these things ? '

This morning.'

You are my son,' said Joe. ' God help me
and forgive me. And I will deal by yon as
best I can — as well as yon will let me. Let
me see signs of amendment in yon, or it will not
be well for you. I shall not be ready to
read the signs too easily, and you shall not look
for a life of idleness and good-for-nothing
luxury at my hands. I have left my duty
undone, and I owe many atonements, even to
you.' It cost him a good deal to confess as
much, but he was bent on doing his duty now,
and this seemed part of it. ' But you are one
who will need a tight hand, and you shall
have it. And now, you can go to your room.
I have no fear of your running away, for you
are not too proud a dog to eat dirty puddings,
and you see your way already to getting a
little money out of me when you can work up
a fit of penitence.'

Under these scathing words George did
begin to feel a little cur-like, and he had to

admit that lie had done something to deserve
them. But even here appearances were
wretchedly against him, and he felt it as a
keen misfortune that he should have been rehabilitated
before his newly discovered father
chanced upon him. A single day of luxury was
dearly purchased at the price he had paid for it.
He crept from the room with his head
hanging, and when he reached his own
chamber he began to cast about in his mind
for the best and wisest course to adopt with
this muscular and outspoken father. Would it
pay to run away to begin with, refusing his aid
on the ground that he was unworthy to receive
it, and so wording a penitent letter that it
might indicate a clue to his whereabouts,
without seeming to do so. He even began to
sketch the half-projected letter in his mind.
He recalled a sentence from the parable of the
Prodigal Son which bade fair to come in with
good effect. He would be quite heart-brokenly
penitent, and yet display a lingering touch of
magnanimity. It would look a little worthier
in him to admit his unworthiness. And you

must understand that in the nature of this
young man — though all this was as clearly
outlined in intention as I have made it seem — it
was not altogether hollow and insincere. While
he wept for shame and humiliation, he was thinking
that his weeping at all was a manly sign in
him, and he knew the while that if he wrote
that letter he would let new tears fall on it,
and he looked for a certain effect that way.
Yet, even for him, penitence meant something
more than the misery of being detected. Of
course a man who really knew how to repent
could never have been guilty of young George's
particular crimes. A man who has the power
to repent nobly may sin much, but hardly in
that way. No lion, however degenerate, takes
to weaving spider's webs. George's penitence
was like his offences, as yours and mine are.

As he sat, half resolving in his courageous
soul to do this thing and seem a little better
than he was in his own eyes and his father's,
a tap came to the door, and John Keen entered.

Your father has deputed me to speak to
you about a matter of importance,' said John.

'He wishes you distinctly to understand that
any hopes of his assistance you may entertain
will depend upon your obedience in this matter.
Your mother is not yet aware of his presence
in England. She does not even know that he
is still alive, and until he can see his way more
clearly than he can at present he desires that
she shall hear nothing of him. I suppose I
may tell him that you respect his wish ? You
will see your mother again in a little time.
Will you undertake — remembering what hangs
upon it — to drop no hint of your father's presence
in England — to drop no hint of your
having ever seen him anywhere ? '

1 Yes,' said George ; ' I promise faithfully.
Keen.' he added, rising and breaking into tears
anew, 'you won't believe that I wrote you
that letter and pretended to be starving when
I wasn't. I give you my word of honour it
was true.'

I see do reason to doubt you,' said John,
somewhat coldly. He could hardly fail to remember
that this good young man had quarrelled
with him on the ground that he was not

moral enough for the good young man to
know him any longer. ' I may take your
promise ? '

Yes,' said George, and the messenger
turned to leave. ' Keen,' cried the criminal,
I know I've acted like a blackguard, but I'm
not so bad as people think me. I never meant
to stick to that money, and I won enough on
Erebus to put it back. And I haven't — I
haven't — I haven't a friend in the world ! '

And so, once more, the young man mistook
self-pity for repentance.

CHAPTER. XXIX.

Joe left Borton next morning, but before
he did so lie had another interview with his
son.

Understand,' said Joe, ' that I mean to do
my best by you. And understand that the
best I can do for you seems to me to set your
nose to the grindstone and keep it there. Mr.
Keen will find you employment, and everything
you hope from me will depend upon the
way in which you conduct yourself. You will
have the manliness to tell your mother that
you need no further help from her, and that
you are resolved to work out by yourself an
atonement for your own misdeeds. If you
accept one penny-piece from her you forfeit all
claim on me. Try to be a man,' said Joe with
a shaky voice. 'Try to be honest. And so

good-bye, sir. When I can shake hands with
yon without feeling soiled by it, I will.'

Having made arrangements with the lawyer
for the furtherance of his ideas concerning
young George, Joe started back for his hotel,
and on his lonely journey he set himself to unravel
the tangled strands of the net which held
him. He had made up his mind not to reveal
himself to Dinah, and being all along in a
mood to do penance, he held hard to his resolve
— held the harder for his own strong
inclination to go against it. There was an
intense longing in his heart to comfort her, and
there was a dreadful fear that the proclamation
of himself would but bring a new sorrow to
her. He put by that trying problem for the
time, as he had done before, not yet being able
to solve it. And then he set to work to think
about Uncle George. It was beyond doubt
that Uncle George had been a rascal, but then
who was Joe Bushell that he should judge anybody,
or be severe beyond necessity even with
so bad an old man as his benevolent relative
had proved ?

Why should one scoundrel venture to be
hard upon another ? ' Joe asked himself. ' He's
been a bad lot, but so have I.'

He would have justice and no more. Even
if old George got better it was impossible that
he should fight the case. There were too
many dangers in it. And if he died there
would be an end of everything so far as he was
concerned, for Dinah could claim the money.
Yet there would be a necessity for exposure
there, and Dinah had kept her secret so
long and so closely that even for her child's
sake Joe could see that it would be hard to
proclaim it to the world. There was one thing
which seemed possible for the returned exile todo.
If old George should recover the use of
his intellect, though only for a day, Joe had
power enough over him to compel him on anyway
he chose. He could compel him to make
surrender to Dinah and to keep his secret.
Such a hold as Joe had upon him no man
could afford to disregard or defy. And out of
this reflection arose a plan, and out of this plan

arose in turn the incidents which closed the
romance of Joe's story.

Once arrived in Birmingham, he had a
horse saddled, and rode over to his old chum
Cheston.

8 Cheston,' he broke out at once on meeting
him, 'I want to be constantly in the neighbourhood
of my Uncle George. I want to bethe
first to know of his getting better, and if he
needs any persuasion when the time comes, I
want to be on the spot to give it.'

fc He'll want no persuasion,' said Cheston.
The sword hangs by a hair, and he'll be
precious hasty in getting from under it.'

He might recover his senses and then die
in a day or two before anything was done,'
urged Joe. ' Then there would be a disputed
will, and no end to the publicity of the case.'

The doctor thinks that he'll live to be
moderately strong again, 5 said Cheston.

1 Leave me to my own plan,' said Joe with
something of his youthful obstinacy. ' I want
to watch him, I want to be near him to lend

a helping hand to my wife's case if it should be
needed. And I want you to give me a berth
of some sort.'

'Eh?' said the Baronet.

8 1 don't want a salary,' said Joe, misunderstanding
the cause of his friend's astonishment ;
I want something to do, just to prevent my
being in the neighbourhood from looking odd.
My name is Jones,' he went on with a faint
mirthful grin. ' It runs in the family to
take aliases. I am an employe of Sir Sydney
Cheston's. I do anything which allows me to
live in the parish unnoticed and unobserved.
Nobody will know me. Give me my way,
Cheston. And I'll tell you what it is besides.
I want to see the old place and some of the old
faces, if there are any left. I'm number sixteen
at the hotel. There's no name on my
luggage. Not a soul knows me except yourself
and young Keen, and that wretched boy
of mine. Let me have my way.'

Well,' said the Baronet, half laughing and
half puzzled, ' what can you do ? Do you

know anything about mines? You used to,
but things are changed a good deal, and it's a
long time ago.'

1 1 worked in a coal mine in the Dominion,'
said Joe ; ' but that's twenty years since.'

'You could do a little fancy inspecting,
perhaps. Or, let me see. Bowker is a reliable
man, and young Gavan broke his leg last week.
Yes, that'll do. Gavan was managing man at
a new pit of mine called " The Buzzard." I
don't know why they call it so, so don't ask
me. Gavan broke his leg, and Bowker, his
subordinate, has been carrying on the work.
Now you might take Gavan's place. Leave
Bowker alone pretty much, you know, and
take his advice about things. He's a thoroughly
practical man, one of the old rough sort, but a
very decent fellow.'

All right,' said Joe ; ' I'll undertake to be
worth what I draw from you, and no more. Can
you send my horse back and drive me over? '

What ! ' cried Cheston with a merry laugh.
Drive a mere mine manager ! Me ! Well, I

don't mind giving you a lift. I'll order the
dog-cart.'

Every yard they drove had at one time
been familiar to young Joe Bushell, and middle-aged
Joe Bushell remembered the way well.
After a mile or two they passed the very field
in which young Joe had first kissed Dinah and
told her how fond of her he was. Poor Dinah !
The kiss had been a betrayal, though he had
not meant it so. A mile or two later came
George Bushels house, and a little farther on
the Saracen, all stuccoed and bedizened with
plate glass and gilt lettering. Then before
long the dog-cart turned into a lumpy lane and
began to jolt and roll in a threatening manner,
and in a while, rounding an artificial hill of
mine refuse, they came in sight of the tall stack
of the Buzzard and the raw red brick-work of
the Buzzard's offices.

A miner came forward to hold the Baronet's
horse.

This way, Mr. Jones, if you please,' cried
Cheston with a broad grin. ' Ah ! that's you,

Mr. Bowker. I Avisli to speak to you. Come
into the offices.'

Joe took a look at Mr. Bowker and grave a
little start beholding him. Mr. Bowker, in spite
of the scars which intervened between the
present and Joe's knowledge of him, was still
recognisable as one who had done odd work for
Joe's father in his youth. Mr. Bowker, for his
part, looked at Joe, but with no unusual regard.

8 Mr. Bowker,' said Sir Sydney, taking a
seat on a rough-hewn stool in the office, ' this is
Mr. Jones, who will take Gavan's place for the
time being.'

4 Very well, sir,' said Mr. Bowker, regarding
the new-comer with no particular favour.

1 I have given him instructions,' said Sir
Sydney with preternatural gravity, belied by a
twinkle in his eye as he looked at Joe, ' not to
disturb any arrangements on which you may
have attempted up to this time, and I hope
you'll get on well together.'

1 I hope so tew,' returned Mr. Bowker, with
an unfavouring glance at Joe's watch-chain and

VOL. III. G

his well-cut though unassuming garments of
dark tweed.

c You'll want lodgings, Mr. Jones,' said
Cheston with his eyes twinkling and his face a
mask of gravity.

Yes, I suppose so,' said Joe.

Mr. Bowker turned sheer round and stared
at him. Then he turned again and caught the
twinkle in the Baronet's eye.

Your nam's no more Jones than mine
is,' he cried. 4 Why it's young master Joseph !
Lord, love me ! I ought to ha' snowed you ina
glance, like. Why, bless my soul, I bin
glad to see thee. But when I heard thee
spake I snowed thee. Shank hands, ode mon,
shank hands ! '

Joe shook hands heartily, but he turned a
moment later to Cheston, and looked at him
with a somewhat rueful smile.

So much for my plot,' he said. ' William,'
he added, turning to the beaming Mr. Bowker,
I didn't expect you to know me.'

Lord love thee,' said William, ' I should
ha' snowed thee anywhere ! '

So I said, Bushell,' cried the Baronet.
4 So / said.'

I don't want it to be known that I'm back
again,' said Joe. Mr. Bowker's eyes opened
wide at this, but he said nothing, ' My uncle
is very ill, as I daresay you know,' he continued,
' and I don't want him to know that I
am here at present'

I see,' said William briskly. ' Th' ode fox
has had your feather's money, an' now he'll ha'
to turn it up, I reckon. Hewray ! '

4 You seem to bear him no good will ? ' said
Joe.

Not me ! Why, he given me the sack at
a minute's notice,' said William ; ' an' all for
pekin' the part of a woman as was i' trouble, ashe
was a blackguards'. You remember her !
Miss Banks. Her brother was took up for
forging' ode Bushell's nam, en' her went to him
to beg him off, and he miscalled her all o'er the
plains. An' I ups an' spaces to him. " Shut
up ! " I says, " Yo'de rip," I says, " wheel's
your bowels ? " An' he turns o' me, and he
says, " tek a minute's notice," he says, " an'

G 2

leave my employ," he says. Oh, he's a bitter
hard im, he is. Well, send I may live ! I bin
glad to see thee, Master Joseph, real righteous
right-down glad, an' that's the trewth.'

In the new handshaking that ensued Joe
threw in a little extra pressure for Dinah's
defender.

'I wanted to stop in the neighbourhood,
William,' he said, reluctant to abandon his
plan. ' And I didn't want to be known. Do
you think anybody else would know me ? '

Well, I doubt they would said William
reflectively. ' But their ain't a lot o' th' ode
uns left not now. Not one on 'em works here.
Yo' might live i' my cottage if you're i' want o'
lodgings', an' welcome. An' yo' could tek tow
T earn' a pair o' blew glasses. Dr. Hodges
he's took to em, an' I went by wi'out known'
him only yesterday. They are a real main'
disguise — blew glasses.'

Well, I won't try the blue glasses,' said Joe,
but I'll stop and take my chance.' There
was more in his resolve than he expressed.
What if dicere known, and the general knowledge

brought him back to Dinah? He
feared ; but might lie not make her happy
after all? Ah! if once she took him back
again he would so surround her with observances
of love and tenderness that he would
half atone — No, no ! that was impossible. But
he would try to make her happy for the future
if they came together again. 4 I'll have no
alias, Cheston,' he cried suddenly. ' It would
look base to be detected under such a disguise.
But I'll stay here and take my chance. Bushell
is a common name enough. I can trust you,
William ? '

8 1 shan't breathe a syllable,' said staunch
William, ' till you given me leave.'

'Now Joe, old man,' said Cheston, with a
friendly hand on his shoulder, ' I call this a
step in the right direction.'

I hope it will prove so,' answered Joe.

And so at his own proper cost the returned
exile lived in Mr. Bowker's cottage. He
bought coarser tweeds and a billycock hat, and
fiddled about the mine, making journeys into
the bowels of the earth at times, and holding

save consultations with Mr. Bowker as to
the progress of the work in hand. Long years
of business habitsliad left upon him the necessity
for occupation, and he began by-and-by to
take a real interest in the work. The rapidity
with which he revived old knowledge and
mastered new impressed Mr. Bowker greatly,
but Joe kept his eye upon the real business he
had in hand, and was keen after news of old
George. He found, in the bar parlour of the
Dudley Arms of an evening, a generation who
knew him not. Two or three oldsters w T ere
there whom he*had faintly known in his early
days, and when he heard their names he could
call them to remembrance, but none of them
made any guess as to his identity. He was
extremely silent and reserved amongst them,
smoking his pipe and sitting behind his ' Times *
as he listened to their talk. Old George's illness
was a common topic, and old George's
doctor was a nightly guest ; so that such news
as was to be had, he got at without the risk of
questioning. A week or two of immunity from
recognition seemed to make him safe.

In the meantime John Keen had found
employment at Borton for young George, and
sent news that the criminal was buckling-to
with a will, and promised all sorts of amendment.
What the heir-presumptive to a quarter
of a million thought of working as a clerk at
five-and-thirty shillings a week, and living on
that sum, was not to be got at, but it is certain
that for the time being he bore it well, and
news reached his father that he had strenuously
refused Dinah's proffered aid, in accordance
with instructions.

After two or three weeks of waiting, there
came news of a decisive change in old George's
condition, and Joe learned that in the course of
a few days it was possible that the old man
might be allowed to look at business once
again. He sent the news to John Keen, and
John came down on the strength of it and saw
the doctor, who denied horn access to the sick
man for the present, but undertook to pave the
way for him.

The frustrated schemer had been groping
in his mind in a dim and feeble way, and had

at length discovered the mental chamber in
which, hidden under all manner of rubbish and
debris, lay the remembrance of the lawyer's
visit, and his own denial of his crime. And
when the doctor set before him the fact that
Mr. Keen was again in the neighbourhood
waiting to see him, the old fellow, with a sort
of inward earthquake, recognised the folly and
madness of resistance. He had sinned in vain,
and his sin had found him out. He had given
a hundred pounds to Joseph — that was something.
It soothed his heart a little to think of
that one generous deed, the only one he could
recall, though he tried hard to remind himself
of his own virtues as a set-off to the account an
offended God certainly held against him. The
pangs of affrighted conscience were terrible to
him, but these alone might have been fought
down. There was no fighting young Keen and
the evidence of the sexton, or if there were,
he was broken and no longer had the pluck
for it.

These miseries retarded recovery, but body
and mind obstinately insisted on getting

stronger, and he had to see John Keen at last.
The old man's skin was of the colour of the
film which gathers on stale unbaked bread, and
his eyes were fishy and watery. His mouth
was drawn down purselike at the corners, and
the inner ends of his eyebrows were drawn
upwards, so that he wore a mask expressive of
feeble misery. John had expected a change in
him, but was yet surprised to see him look so
wretched.

I've been a thinking' over the news as you
give me, Mr. Keen,' he said in quavering tones,
8 an' if you prove your case I'm willing' to do
justice. But five an' twenty thousand pound is
a large sum to part with on anything' but good
evidence.'

Mr. Bush ell,' said John gravely, ' I beg
you not to try to deceive me, or to force me
into measures which I should regret.'

Well, forty thousand's a good round sum,'
said old George.

'Pray understand, Mr. Bushell,' said John
quietly, ' that we cannot content ourselves
with anything less than the restoration of the

whole of your brother Joseph's fortune. Let
me tell you what we know. I shall tell you
nothing I am not in a position to prove. You
purposely widened the quarrel between your
nephew Joseph and his parents. You withheld
from him all knowledge of his father's death,
and you wrote to him, when you had held fora
year the fortune which belonged to him,
saying that his wife had married again, and so
prevented his return to England.'

Old George's mouth opened, and his fishy
eyes widened with a look so ghastly that the
lawyer paused. The unbaked pie-crust complexion
changed to a deep crimson, and
changed again to a dull leaden colour, and fora
minute or two John feared that his listener
would succumb to the news. He rose and
mixed a tumbler of wine and water and held
it to the old man's lips. By-and-by the
patient recovered, and returned to his former
aspect.

4 Must I go on and distress you with the
memory of these misdeeds ? ' John asked.
We know everything. We have been incommunication

with the Governor of the jail.
Your late private secretary is again in England.
Why should you bring misery and disgrace
upon yourself by resisting us ? '

fc I ain't a-resistin' anybody,' said old George
feebly and miserably. ' I'm willing' to do
justice. A hundred thousand pound's a lot o'
money, but I'm willing' to do justice.'

'You are not near the amount yet, Mr.
Bush ell,' John returned. ' The title-deeds of all
the landed property of which your brother
Joseph died possessed, and the papers relating
to his funded properties, are still in existence.
When we come to business we shall be able to
refresh your memory.'

The wretched defeated old schemer
groaned.

The houses was good for nothing', an' was
all sold at a loss,' he protested. c The money's
all mixed up along o' mine. I ain't agooin'
to be made a pauper on. Mind that, now.'

But this feeble spark of resistance died out
when John answered him :

I am sorry to say, Mr. Bushell, that you

have not deserved any merciful consideration
at our hands. I shall accept no compromise

Am I agooin' to be made a pauper on ? '
quavered the wretched old George. ' Answer
me that, Mr Keen. Am I agooin' to be made
a pauper on.'

You must be thankful, Mr. Bushell,' John
responded, ' that we do not take criminal
measures against you. Be glad that your
wickedness is to be punished so lightly.'

My brother Joseph meant to leave a
lot of his money to me,' cried George tremulously.
' He allays said so, an' he made a
will an' did it. Am I agooin' to be robbed o'
that?'

6 Mr. Bushell,' said John, ' we will take
back every penny piece of which you wrongfully
possessed yourself. Thank us, when you
come to reason again, that we do no more.
We have been merciful to you, and we desire
to be merciful still, but so far as your brother
Joseph's fortune is concerned we shall insist
upon strict justice. May I see your lawyer
now ? '

Xo,' cried George feebly ; ' I'll deal with
him myself. You come here at twelve tomorrow,
an' I'll have him here. I ain't
strong enough to do no more talking' to-day.
I'm tired.'

Very good, Mr. Bushell,' said John. ' At
twelve tomorrow.'

The young lawyer took his way, not without
some pity for the broken schemer. He
wrote that afternoon two accounts of his interview,
despatching one to Joe and the other to
Dinah, and on the morrow at midday he presented
himself anew at old George's house.
Mr. Packmore, that elderly conveyancer who
had once on a time recommended Ethel to
John Keen's services, had not yet arrived, and
George was alone.

'Mr. Keen,' he said, in a stronger voice
than that of yesterday, ' if I'm agooin' to do
justice it's fair as I should come off wi' no
disgrace.'

That depends upon yourself, Mr. Bushell,'
John answered. ' It is not necessary for Mr.
Packmore to know more than the mere fact :

that I can prove Dinah Banks's marriage to
Joseph Bush ell.'

But when Mr. Packmore came he turned
out to be a very hard conveyancer indeed, and
by no means willing to believe that his client
was ready to surrender so huge a slice of his
great fortune. In his opinion — as up to that
time advised — the case ought to be fought, if
only for the sake of securing a complete proof.
But finding that his client objected most
savagely and obstinately to any fight being
made, he gave in.

'Very well, Mr. Bushell,' he said at ]last
with quiet desperation. ' I'll go over to
Waston Church as a mere matter of form, anyway,
and look at the original entry.'

6 Yo' do anything' of the sort, if you dare
cried old George in a half-frenzy.

The elderly lawyer looked at him in amazement,
and confided to John Keen his opinion
that really Mr. Bushell was not in a fit condition
to transact business just at present.

On our side,' John answered, ' we cannot
admit of any delay. Mr. Bushell is fully persuaded

of the validity of our claim, and wishes
to do justice.'

4 It's an odd business,' said the conveyancer,
c and one that I have no stomach for.' They
were outside the house by this time. 'You
have some hold upon him, Mr Keen — something
I don't know of.'

1 Mr. Packmore,' said John, with infinite
dryness, ' I am at your service in this matter
whenever you choose. In the interest of all
parties I think we had better get it over
quickly.'

The two legal gentlemen met again next
day, and the elder looked extremely grave.

4 Mr. Keen,' he said, I have been to Waston
Church, and there is no certificate of a
marriage there between Joseph Bushell and
Dinah Banks.'

'You had better communicate that discovery
to your client, Mr. Packmore,' said
John. ' This is a certified copy of the original
register.' He produced the document from his
pocket-book, and again placed it in the conveyancer's
hands.

Well, the original is not at Waston,' said
the lawyer half angrily.

1 know it isn't,' John returned.

Great Heaven ! ' cried Mr. Packmore, recoiling
as the fancy struck him. ' Has Mr.

Bushell been tampering ? Under the seal

of professional confidence, now ! '

4 1 can only refer you again to Mr. Bushell,'
John answered. ' The reasons which actuate
him to an unconditional surrender are cogent
enough, no doubt, if you can arrive at them.'

Quite right to be discreet, Mr. Keen,' said
the elder. ' But I won't and can't accept the
responsibility of so vast a transfer without
knowing more than I know at present.'

The business was broken off for an hour or
two, whilst old George's lawyer applied the
forensic thumbscrew to his client, and after a
tough time of it squeezed the truth out of him.
Then he came back and relieved himself by a
quotation.

There are more things in heaven and
earth, Mr. Keen,' said he, 'than are dreamt
of in our philosophy. I should never have

thought it. So respected — and with one foot
in the grave.'

He has explained the absence of the certificate
? ' asked John.

1 To my amazement,' the conveyancer answered.


There was no more hinting at delay, and
John wrote two other letters, one to Joe and
one to Dinah, announcing that the business
was practically at an end. Old George, by his
lawyer's advice, prepared to sell up everything
and to retire from business, as the only way by
which the enormous diminution of his capital
could be hidden from the public eye.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XXX.

John Keen found busier employment through
the unexpected revelation Dinah had made to
him than he had ever expected to find in
Wrethedale. But howsoever busy he might
be, there were intervals in which he found
time enough to think upon one inexhaustible
theme, and that theme, naturally enough for a
lover, was the inexpressible charms of Miss
Ethel Donne. Perhaps the young man had
been in love before, but if he had been, he contrived
to forget all about it. There was but
one woman in the world, and she less a woman
than an angel. Getting at John's thoughts,
one would conceive that there never had been
any human creature of such perfections, and
never again would be. ' There is none like
her — none ! Nor shall there be till our

summers have deceased.' It is the proper
belief of a lover and comes natural to him.

It is not to be said that the young man had
or, being a lover, needed — any very distinct
opportunities of close observation on which to
base the glorious theorem which he never
wearied of propounding. 'Tis distance lends
enchantment to the view. But to worship a
good woman is surely worth an honest man's
while. To be able in married life to recognise
no disillusion, but only a gradual toning down
of colour — that is inevitable, and, like many
inevitable things, a blessing — one must have
made a better choice and be a better man than
the average. But here is a fine-natured,
honest-hearted, loyal young fellow in love with
a good and charming girl, and if only the girl
could be brought to be in love with him, I
could find it in my heart to join their hands,
with the best hope for their future, and to say,
1 Bless yon, my children ! Bless you ! ' Playwrights
and novelists are the most inveterate of
matchmakers.

John's especial disadvantage was that Ethel

H 2

knew his condition. Had lie always disguised
it, she could have looked upon him with greater
favour, but now his very attachment made it
difficult for her even to like him. Hardly a
year and a half had gone by since the man she
loved had proved himself a scoundrel, and she
had loved him, dearly. John felt his case no
more hopeful on account of young George's
reappearance, though he knew Ethel's change
of feeling towards her late lover well enough.
But that reappearance had opened a wound
which time had not yet healed, and her truer
lover knew it.

Sometimes in his consultations with Dinah,
Ethel was present, and she was aware of all
that went on on that side. Her courage, her
faithfulness to friendship, her self-possession, all
seemed more than human in John's eyes, and
there are no words for his pity and admiration.
If only the young lawyer would or could have
hidden the too-evident signs of feeling which
every look afforded, Ethel under these new
circumstances, might have liked him well
enough, but, as it was, she fought him off by a

chill abruptness of demeanour altogether unnatural
in her, and John, full of warmth as he
was within, became frozen on approaching her,
except for his eyes, which did her continual
homage.

But it is a long lane indeed which has no
turning, and the relationship of these two
young people underwent a sudden change.
Joe had been thinking over the young lawyer's
scheme for sounding Dinah's feelings concerning
him, and as affairs grew day by day more
urgent, and less and less within his own control,
the plan began, out of his sheer desperation, to
commend itself to him. So that, one evening
when John called upon him under cover of the
darkness at Mr. Bowker's cottage, the bewildered
husband and father capitulated.

fc Who is the young lady ? ' lie asked, after
reminding John of the hint he himself had
given.

4 She is a Miss Donne,' answered the young
fellow blushing. They sat in Joe's bedroom
by the light of a single tallow candle, and the
blush passed unnoticed.

The girl,' said Joe, ' to whom George was
engaged to be married ? '

The same,' John answered. ; I can pledge
myself to her discretion and to her self-command.
And she is so devoted to your wife,
sir, that she would do anything for her sake.
I want to ask you again to remember how easy
the task will be. It seems to me that a very
bold hint would be needed before your wife
would suspect the meaning of the inquiries.'

Since I have been living here,' said Joe,
sitting with both elbows on the table, and
staring at the feeble flame of the candle, with
his head between his hands, ' I have learned
a good deal about them both — my wife and
my son. He ruled her and even bullied herat
times. Now she's going to be wealthy, and
she'll want the control of the lad, and I don't
see how I can keep a hold upon him. I don't
want to neglect my duty any longer. I could
take him with me to the West perhaps, but
she'd break her heart to lose him without
knowing why ; and if she knew why, you can
see that all the mischief which could come of

my declaring myself would be done, and any
chance of good to her in it would be missed.
Now, if I could go back to her, and acknowledge
myself, and then undertake the care of
the lad, and, if need be, go away again and let
her see him at times, and know of his well-doing
'

The speaker's voice, though he tried hard
to steady it, became so shaky that he had to
pause and leave his sentence unfinished.

You authorise me then,' said John, ' as a
first step, to tell Miss Donne the whole story ? '
I am at a deadlock, now,' Joe answered.
I've seen that it was coming. I must either
go away, and let her suffer anew at the hands
of that unhappy lad, and suffer she will, unless
there is somebody to control him, or I must
make myself known to her. But,' he added suddenly
with a shrinking of the heart, ' don't let
Miss Donne go too far. Let me know, to begin
with, whether my going back will be the larger
of the two evils. I can well believe it might bec
Rely upon it,' said John, ' that all discretion
shall be used.'

Joe was fain to be content and to wait, while
John went back to the little western village,
and set his scheme in motion. Of course it
was charming for John to have such a chance
of approaching Ethel, and of course it was
terrible to him to have to take it. He began
by writing a letter :

Dear Miss Donne ' (he felt ridiculously inclined
to set down the first word in capitals) —
I have a secret which most nearly concerns
the happiness of your friend Mrs. Joseph
Bush ell. I believe it's the one thing in the
world she most desires to learn. May I presume
to ask your assistance and advice? — Yours
most respectfully, John Keen.

Pes. — I must beg of you not to drop a hint
of this at present to Mrs. Bushell.'

In answer to this brief and somewhat misleading
epistle, came an answer delivered by
the hands of Mrs. Donne's little maid-servant.
Miss Donne would be obliged if Mr. Keen
would call at seven o'clock that evening.

At seven o'clock that evening Mr. Keen
called. Ethel sat in the small front parlour to
receive him, and, except for the maid-servant,
was alone in the house, Mrs. Donne having
providentially accepted an invitation to tea.
When the girl arose and offered her hand, a
most unprofessional nutter started in John's
heart, but outwardly he was as cool as a
cucumber.

8 What is your secret, Mr. Keen ? ' asked
Ethel.

6 The secret is not mine, Miss Donne,
though I am master of it,' John answered.
If it belonged to me I would offer it, if I
offered it at all, without reservation and without
conditions. But I am compelled to ask
you, in the first place, to promise that you will
not reveal it to Mrs. Bushell without the sanction
of the person who is — with her — most
interested in it.'

1 I promise that,' the girl answered.

1 Then,' said John, ' my secret is simply
this : her husband is in England.'

Ethel rose and fronted him with her hands

clenched, her cheeks flushed, and her eyes
sparkling with anger and surprise.

6 That man is still alive? ' she asked.

Before you judge him,' returned John,
6 let me tell his story. It will not take long.
Mr. George Bushell, of whose rascalities you
know a little, but not much, was his nephew's
only correspondent. He left the runaway in
ignorance of his parents' death and stuck to the
money they left behind them. That you knew
or partly knew already. But he wrote in
answer to his nephew's particular inquiries
about Miss Dinah Banks, that Dinah Banks had
married. Joseph Bushell believed his wife
faithless to him and stayed away, until after all
these years he learned by a mere accident that
this was false, and came over to make inquiries.'
6 And how does all that concern Dinah's
happiness, Mr. Keen?' asked Ethel. 'The
man has heard that she is going to have the
fortune he threw away, and now he comes
back to live upon her.'

6 On the contrary,' said John, ' he has
amassed a fortune of his own. He has been in

England for some months, and at any moment
might have claimed the fortune for himself,
but has given his best influence to securing it
for her.'

He has been away from her for six-and-twenty
years now,' cried Ethel with supreme
contempt. ' Let him go away again.'

Miss Donne,' said the young fellow,
warmed on the suffering Joe's behalf, ' you misjudge
the man. His wife has not suffered alone.
He has endured with her, and he has had great
sorrows to bear since his return. When I
first met him I had no sympathy with him, but
I have learned to know him since then, and I
believe that his wife ought to know that he is
here. She is not an old woman, and when she
has this fortune she will find suitors in plenty.
That is inevitable. Suppose she should marry
again ' — (he inwardly blessed Sir Sydney
Cheston for having put that argument into his
hands) — ' and suppose that afterwards the discovery
should be made. That would be
horrible, and none of us who have the secret
could permit it to happen, but we should have

then to say what we know now ; and how
could we accept the responsibility of having
kept it back from her? She ought to .


Do you wish me to break the news to
her?' asked Ethel.

No,' cried John, perceiving suddenly that
his argument had altogether overshot the
mark. Personally, I long to see them together,
because I believe that she would be
happier after his return than she has ever been
since I have known her, but he forbids the
immediate revelation of the secret.'

If he forbids it ' Ethel began contemptuously.


4 There is a reason,' said John. ' And this
is where I beg your help. His old friend Sir
Sydney Cheston has done his best to persuade
him to return, and I have exhausted all my
arguments in the same behalf.'

It is a pity to have spent so much good
persuasion on such an object, Mr. Keen,' said
Ethel.

1 But he will only return,' John went on
steadfastly, ' on one condition.'

And that is ? ' inquired Miss Donne with
lofty scorn.

4 That his declaration of himself will bring
no new unhappiness on her.' Ethel was silent.
6 All this time he has been robbed of his fortune,
and swindled of his right to a happy
married life.'

He left her voluntarily,' said Ethel hotly.

And was kept from her by a villanous
fraud, Miss Donne. But this is all he has to
say through me : that if his declaration of himself
can smooth away any troubles she has yet
to face, he will declare himself. If it could
only add to her unhappiness, he will go away
again. Have pity for him, and for your friend,
Miss Donne. He asks nothing but the knowledge
of his duty. He only waits to know
where duty seems to lie.'

How can I help him ? ' asked Ethel, still
scornful. From the first hour of her hearing
Dinah's story she had hated and despised the

runaway husband, and she was not going to
change her mind on a sudden. It had been
clear all along that he had been a good-for-nothing
fellow. Why should she help to surrender
Dinah to him again ?

'You could help him by finding out
whether his wife still cares for him, and
whether she would be glad to have him back,'
John urged gently, refusing to be beaten down
by her contempt for Joe. .

Of course she cares for him ! Why else
has she kept single all her life, but because she
cared for him ! That is the way with women,'
cried the girl, trembling with anger and her
championship for the woman she loved. ' They
love the wretches who use them so shamefully,
and pine after them all their life long. Glad
to have him back again? Yes, poor weak
thing ! I know that well enough, Mr. Keen.
But I will have no hand in the plot to bring
him back, and I have no thanks for you who
come here to ask me to take an office so ignoble.
I will not trap my friend into a confession
which would bring that man back

again. I love her well enough to deny her
wishes there

She spoke quietly enough, but with flaming
cheeks and sparkling eyes, and an utterance
unusually rapid.

You mistake, Miss Donne,' said the young
lawyer firmly. It was hard for him to have
strengthened the poor opinion she had always
held of him, or seemed to hold. ' I came to ask
you to perform an act of the truest friendship,
and I would rather die than ask you to do
anything which would not become you as you
are. Forgive me ! There are troubles before
Mrs. Bushell — unless she has her husband's help
to fight them — as great, I fear, as any she has
encountered yet, terrible as they have been.
The man is not what you believe him, but, I
pledge myself for him, a true man, with a
kindly, honest heart. He has been hideously
defrauded. Think of it, Miss Donne. For
three-and-twenty years he lived in the belief
that the wife of his youth had been false to
him, and for half the time he was struggling
with hardship and poverty, whilst that old

villain who had deluded him and robbed him
fattened on his fortune. He does not claim
the fortune now. Does that say nothing in
his favour? I believe with all my heart and
soul cried John, in a great heat of friendly
championship himself by this time, ' that the
one thought he has, the one desire he has, is
to spend his whole life in atoning to his wife
for the sorrows she has borne. And if I
believed one tittle less than that I would
never have taken up his cause.'

4 Mr. Keen,' said Ethel, ' I do you justice
enough to believe that you are in earnest, and
that he has imposed upon you.'

If you could but see the man said John.

1 do not think my opinion of him at all
likely to change,' answered Ethel quietly.
And I certainly think that since he has stayed
away so long he can do nothing better or more
generous or kindly than to stay away for good.
Dinah will never want to marry again, and Mr.
Joseph Bushell has done as much harm as anyone
man has a right to do. Let him go back
to wherever he came from, and take his secret

with him, and leave his wife in peace. If he
should come here I should certainly advise
Dinah most strongly to give him his fortune
and let him go.'

I am sorry to find you against me in this
matter,' said John, and he went away sorrowful.

But before he was half-way down the
darkened village street a thought struck him
and brought him to a standstill.

4 Bravo ! ' he cried, f the very ticket ! ' And
with that vulgar exclamation he turned and
walked briskly back again. This time he rang
the bell at Dinah's house, and being admitted,
gave the first shove to his new scheme.

I have called to say,' he began, ' that
everything is now ready for the transfer of
your husband's property to your hands. I
shall be greatly obliged if you can make it
convenient to come down to Birmingham,
where Mr. Packmore (who is engaged on the
other side) and I can lay the necessary documents
before you.'

1 1 don't want to go down there if I can
help it, Mr. Keen,' said Dinah piteously.

VOL. III. I

I'm afraid I must ask you to do it,' said
John, cruel only to be kind. ' You need not
go farther than Birmingham.'

He knew partly how Dinah dreaded a
return to the place she had left in such unearned
shame.

If I must come said Dinah quietly, ' I
must come.' It was all for the child for whom
she had suffered so much. And now that he
was beginning to act so nobly, and to struggle
for himself, he was ten times more than ever
worthy of any suffering she might endure.
Eor the young man had told her, making the
best of a bargain he thought unpleasant, that
he meant to be a man in future, and had declined
her assistance with an air of martyr-like
magnanimity inexpressibly affecting.

I daresay,' said John with much innocence,
' you could persuade Miss Donne to
accompany you. We shall not want to keep
you more than a day or two.'

Make the time as short as you can, Mr.
Keen,' said Dinah. ' When shall you want me
to be ready ? '

Consult your own convenience,' crit John,
'but make it as soon as you like. It will
be best to have the business over,' he added
cheerily.

1 Yes,' Dinah answered. ' I'll speak to her
about it, and I'll let you know tomorrow, Mr.
Keen.'

On that understanding John went away,
and the first result of this small ruse of his was
that Ethel and Dinah and he all travelled down
to the Midland capital together on the following
afternoon. Old Daniel was quite beyond
the understanding of any part of the story by
this time, and Mrs. Donne knew no more of it
than that her neighbour had come in suddenly
for a great fortune which ought to have been
hers long ago. She was not a mercenary
woman, but she made no objection to her
daughter's friendship with Dinah under these
circumstances. John had guessed, and as
events proved had guessed rightly, that if
Dinah visited the old country at all it would be
in Ethel's company. Half his plan was accomplished,
and now he had but to bring Ethel

and Joe together to complete his scheme.
For, after the manner of impetuous youth, he
was persuaded that Ethel could no more fail to
recognise the manliness of Joe's character than
he had done. If she could but see the man, ashe
had said to her ! If she could but hear his
wishes from his own lips, and see how real and
how in earnest he was, she would surely consent
to help him. And nobody, I am assured,
will be likely to think any the worse of the
young man for his generous efforts in behalf
of such a cause. Joe by this time had fairly
taken John's affections captive, and John was
ready to swear by him as the honestest and
most injured man in Great Britain. It is a
fine thing to be young and to have these
impetuous beliefs in human probity. They
are often thrown away, but for once they bade
fair to be expended on a good object.

When John had once got Ethel so near, he
set to work to get her nearer still, but found
unlooked-for difficulties in the way. Perhaps
she misunderstood the purpose of that persistence
with which he dodged her, and suspected

an interest more personal to himself than that
which really animated him. But at last, avoid
him as she might, he caught her in a corridor
of the hotel.

1 Miss Donne he murmured, as she sought
to pass him with a mere bow, ' I have something
of the utmost urgency to say to you.'
She could do nothing less than pause, without
being downright rude to him. ' I am most
glad you came here, for I think it forwards
one of the dearest wishes I have in the world.
Joseph Bushell is within five miles of us. Will
you see him and judge him for yourself? For
Dinah's sake,' he pleaded. ' Think how much
hangs upon your judgment : it commits you
to nothing. Will you see him ? '

Ethel was a woman after all, albeit a very
charming one. And being a woman, she
could scarcely be insensible to the young
fellow's disinterested earnestness, or to the
flattery which so simply told her that the
course of two lives depended on her judgment.
I do not desire to lay too much stress upon the
last. The appeal, 'For Dinah's sake,' might

have been enough to shake down any little
barrier of unwillingness. Perhaps, too, she
was a trifle curious to see the man.

1 Dinah must not know r of it,' she answered.
6 And I do not see how I can leave her.'

If you will give me an hour after she has
gone to bed to-night,' urged John, ' Mr. Bushell
shall be here.'

6 Very well,' she answered, ' I will see
him.'

John, elated, and supposing all troubles
over, made his swiftest way to Mr. Bowker's
cottage, and despatched a messenger to the
Buzzard, who returned with Joe. The young
fellow found it a somewhat delicate thing to
tell him that he was to go and be examined by
a lady he had never seen, with a view to ascertain
his fitness to be trusted with his own wife.
But he blurted it out at last.

6 Miss Donne is very much opposed to you,
but I want you to see her yourself.'

Joe assented with a readiness which surprised
his companion, but the truth of the
matter was that Joe's heart was growing hungrier

and hungrier, and his scruples were
beginning to be as nothing in his way. He
was almost ready at moments to start off and
throw himself upon Dinah's mercy without
preliminaries. He had written half a ream of
letters to her, and destroyed them as he wrote
them, one by one.

So when darkness fell, the two went into
town together, and Joe stayed at another hotel
while John went on to spy out the land before
him. Dinah retired early, and John darted
away for her husband, brought him up in a cab
within five minutes, and led him to the sitting-room
where Ethel sat to receive them. It was
not a small thing for Joe to enter the house in
which his wife was sleeping, even though he
were sure of not being discovered by her ; to be
so near to her, and yet to be sundered from herby
the barrier of those six-and-twenty years of
absence. He bore the impress of his emotions
in his face, and it was natural for a moment he
should wish that he had not undertaken the
venture.

Ethel rose to John's introduction of the

new-comer, gave him a formal bow and signed
Mm to a seat. The first thing that crossed her
was that Dinah would never (in the mere
worthless, conventional sense of the word) bea
lady, though she had the essentials of ladyhood
(which are perhaps, after all, included in
womanliness), whilst the man before her had
at least the aspect of a gentleman. Even that,
in her prejudiced mind, went against him. He
would think Dinah's accent vulgar, and despise
her homely ways and thoughts.

6 1 am obliged to you,' said Joe in the
simple manly way habitual and natural to him,
for having consented to meet me. Mr. Keen
tells me that you are very much opposed tome,
and I should have expected that. You
know the facts of the case up to a certain
point, and I need not trouble you by repeating
them.'

He paused, and Ethel inclined her head.
It was not easy to make way against her resolute
coldness ; but he went on.

If I say anything which gives you pain I
can only ask you to forgive me. When my

son and I encountered each other in New York

I learned that my wife had never married again,
and that my uncle's letter to that effect had
held a cruel lie — he didn't know how cruel.
Perhaps you know Mr. Bushel's handwriting ? '
he asked, drawing a book of memoranda from
his breast pocket. 'There is his letter. I
thought it advisable to bring it.'

Ethel glanced through the letter, which
was yellow with age and much worn at the
edges of the folds. ' There has been a gash •
(probably garish) ' wedding here last week,
when Dinah Banks was married at the Old
Church. I am sorry to hear as you are not
doing well and being busy at this time no more
from your affectionate uncle, George Bushell.'
So it closed.

Did you keep this letter, Mr. Bushell, with
a view to any such contingency as this ? ' asked
Ethel.

No,' said Joe, with a simple, sad surprise.

I I never thought at that time of coming back
to England. It was years after that before I
could have paid the passage-money.'

He folded up the letter, returned it to his
pocket-book, and went on.

That was the last line I ever had from
England. Perhaps that was why I kept it.
When my unhappy lad met me in America he
was travelling under an assumed name and I
didn't guess who he was. But I resolved on
coining back to England in consequence of the
news he gave me. When I landed here I
scarcely knew what I wanted to do, but I
learned from Mr. Keen, here, everything my
wife had suffered in my absence. I learned for
the first time that I had a son, and I heard
what had become of him. I went with Sir
Sydney Cheston to the place where he was
confined, and I found that he had been released
by the intervention of my uncle George.'

This was news to Ethel, and it amazed her,
but she said nothing, and gave no sign.

6 Shortly after this my son wrote to Mr.
Keen for assistance in discovering Dinah, giving
an address at Borton. We went to see him
together, and I recognised him as the man who
had met me in New York, and had passed

himself off as the brother of my old friend, Sir
Sydney Cheston.'

He saw how bitterly all this distressed
Ethel, but he was too careful to spare her to
apologise, and she bore is bravely. He went
on.

My wife, for her son's sake, has compelled
my uncle George to surrender my father's
fortune, and she is wealthy. What hold have
I upon a son who has already proved himself
unworthy of her ? Can I leave her, knowing
him as I do, to bear the burden he will lay
upon her ? I have feared that my return might
seem a greater evil in her eyes than even that.
I have been afraid that after such an absence
my return might seem the most terrible thing
that could happen to her. Perhaps if the news
were broken to her gently, and if she knew
that I had no further object than to help her
in leading that poor lad to wiser ways, and
that I made no demands upon her, and had no
wish to fetter her freedom or control her
slightest wish — as God knows I haven't ! — she
might consent to see me once, and let me take

the part I want to take. Will you sound her
first, Miss Donne? ' he asked hurrying along to
hide the shaking of his voice. ' Not letting
her guess at first that I am here or alive at all.
Can you do that for me ? And if my homecoming
should seem too hard for her, I must
find another way. Will you help me ? '

'Mr. Bushell,' said Ethel, breaking her
silence for the second time and speaking in a
voice unlike her own, ' I value your wife very
highly, and I can do nothing to disturb her
peace. She has suffered as few women have
suffered. If you desire nothing more than you
have said '

Nothing ! ' Joe cried earnestly. ' Nothing
! '

6 1 will consent to help you so far as this :
I will speak to your wife of a problematical
return, and will find out for you whether she
would be likely to rejoice or grieve at it, and I
will let you know.'

There was a diplomatic movement here
which I hope nobody will think sinful. Ethel
knew well enough already that there was no

one thing in the world which could so rejoice
Dinah's widowed heart as the news of Joe's
return. For, when once the secret had been
confessed, Dinah's constant speech went back
to him, as of one long since dead, indeed, but
always to be loved and held in pious memory
to the end. But the girl could not yet bring
herself to confess as much to the returned exile.
Still there was with her, as there had been with
John Keen in his first interview with the wanderer,
a feeling which warred with her preconceived
notions of the man.

4 Will you answer me one or two questions,
Mr. Bushell ? ' she asked suddenly.

If I can,' he answered.

How long was it after your departure
from England before you received that letter ? '
she asked, pointing to the pocket-book which
still lay on the table.

Two years,' said Joe hanging his head and
crushing his beard against his breast.

1 What kept you silent all that time ? '

Shame,' he answered, lifting his head ashe
spoke and dropping it again. ' I promised

to go away and make a home for her. I failed ;
I scarcely made a living for myself. I promised
to send her the certificate of her marriage,
and I couldn't find it. And so I put off writing
for a while, and then put it off for a while
longer, and at last was afraid to write at all.
After a month or two I made sure that she
would think me dead, and when uncle George's
letter came I was certain that she did so.'

It was a poor excuse, and Ethel thought
so. Joe had always thought it shameful, and
was not likely to change his opinion now,
when the weight of unavailing repentance had
been laid upon him so heavily. It was clear
that, whatever he had to bear, he had himself
made his burden. c You have made your bed
says the harsh common-sense proverb, speaking
the harsh common sense of the world : ' lie
upon it.' But it is no easier to lie upon it
because the briars between the sheets were put
there by your own hands. ' Nobody can have
any pity for him,' says popular opinion : ' he
brought it upon himself.' Nay — still pity him,
perhaps the more that he can soften the pangs
of suffering by the balm of no forgiveness.

CHAPTEE XXXI.

So Joe went his way again and waited. Conveyancer
Packmore and John Keen were in
conference for a few hours with Dinah, and except
for some merest formalities of law, the like
of which any able young lawyer might readily
invent if he desired it, the property of long
errant Joe was at last in his wife's hands. John
had his reasons for delay. There was surely a
method of keeping Dinah in Joe's neighbourhood,
since there was no method of getting Joe
to keep in Dinah's. The young fellow consulted
Sir Sydney Cheston, and found the
Baronet inclined to adopt impetuous action.

A man might think,' said Sir Sydney,
that the whole business was being carried out
on the story-book principle, with an absolute
necessity for filling three volumes out of it.
The man wants to go back to his wife. There's
no mortal doubt that she would be most happy

to have hiui back. We want to see the whole
thing settled and done with, and two good
people happy ; and yet we all go philandering
about in this ridiculous and uncertain way.
Let's bring 'em together, say who's who, and
have done with it. They'd settle matters in
five minutes, and their friends could go home
and dine in peace.'

I wish with all my heart it could be done,'
said John. ' Shall we make a final representation
to Mr. Bushell, and try to persuade him
to some definite action ? He is waiting now,
though, to hear what Miss Donne says.'

My dear fellow,' cried Cheston, c it doesn't
matter what Miss Donne says. Bushell must
be on the spot to control that rascal of a son of
his — infernally unlucky that he should be such
a rascal, isn't it? — and it's Quixotic to talk
about leaving a fortune such as his behind him.
Why, that young blackguard would break his
mother's heart and be off with the money in a
year. In short,' said Cheston decisively, 'if
Joe won't move, I'll tell his wife he's here, and
bring her over to him.'

But John, who naturally attached great
weight to Ethel's desires in the matter, though
he dissented from her estimate of Joe, fought
against this rough-and-ready method. He advanced
Joe's own expressed desire to remain
unknown ; he represented how they had both
pledged their honour not to reveal his secret ;
and, in brief, he left the Baronet convinced, and
out of temper, as men convinced against their
will are apt to be.

Before this, by some means or other, the
story of the late transfer of old Joe's property
to his lost son's wife was in everybody's mouth.
Whether Mrs. Bullus had listened, or Conveyancer
Packmore had leaked, which seems improbable,
of Cheston had been indiscreet,
nobody seemed to know ; but the secret was
no secret, and the hidden marriage of so long
ago was common talk. But there was no hint
of old George's criminality in the gossip, nor of
Dinah's real relationship to young George ;
though, by the way, it was settled once by a
learned legal tribunal, according to Lawrence
Sterne, I fancy, that a mother and her son are

VOL. III. K

not related to each other. Dinah knew that
her business was known, and shrank within herself
and longed to get away. The local papers
had paragraphs and ' leaderettes ' about it,
exalting that magnanimous morality on old
George's part which forbade him from fighting
the case.

I suppose,' said the Baronet, still a little
out of humour. ' that there can't be any objection
to my calling on Miss Donne ? I might
see Mrs. Bushell, and I might learn if anything
had been done.'

Pray be discreet,' said John.

• I'll be discreet enough,' Cheston answered
brusquely. ' But somebody must move in the
matter, and if nobody else will, I will.'

4 Miss Donne may not yet have had time to
carry out her promise,' urged John.

'Then she'll have to find time said the
other, not being in love with the young lady,
and do it pretty quickly.'

Sir Sydney Cheston got into his carriage
instead of the usual dog-cart, lit his meerschaum,
and drove, unattended, as was his wont,

to the hotel in which Dinah and Miss Donne
were quartered. This lonely drive, which
lasted an hour, gave the noisy, good-hearted
gentleman a chance to think, and he was no
sooner arrived than he put his thoughts into
practice.

1 They'll say all manner of things,' said he
to himself. ' They'll say I want to marry a
publican's daughter because she's got a quarter
of a million of money ; and a very good reason
that would be if I wanted to do it. They'll
find out all on a sudden that they always noticed
a tendency in me to make friends with moneyed
people. I always worshipped the mammon of
unrighteousness, they'll say at Wesley Chapel.
Let 'em say what they like. A good conscience,
Syd, my boy ! Eh ? '

He sent in his card and was received, and
fell to talking with Miss Donne in his own
boisterous way, and suddenly blurted out an
invitation to Worley Hall, which took both
women by surprise. They declined with
thanks, looking at each other, but the refusal
was feeble. Sir Sydney was a baronet and

K ( J

very much looked up to in those parts, and
they had both been inclined to regard him as a
man who had his own way in all things ; and,
indeed, he had in most.

My sister will take care of you both, and
you know, Miss Banks — beg your pardon —
very ridiculous, Mrs. Bushel for I was just
going to speak of your husband ; poor Joe was
my dearest chum once upon a time ; and, in
short, ladies, I am here with a purpose, and
I'm not in a humour to take a refusal, and I
shall be more hurt than I can say if I meet
one.'

He actually took things into his own hands ;
rang the bell, demanded the manager, informed
him that the ladies were going to stay with him
at Worley Hall, and instructed him to send
their belongings after them. He lunched with
them by his own invitation, and carried them
triumphantly away with him, having prepared
his sister by a telegraphic message. They had
no more power against him than they might
have against a whirlwind, and they submitted
with inward tremors.

You see, Miss Donne,' said Cheston at his
earliest opportunity, ' that the people about
here are saying all manner of unworthy things
about your friend. Mrs. Bushell. Now, let me
hear 'em saying anything about a guest of mine ! '

Errant Joe's wife, lifted suddenly into fame,
was naturally found no better than she should
be. Curious, how impossible it is to have one's
name public property and escape lies.

Ethel shrewdly suspected his real purpose,
but dared not say so. She began to see that
she was not to have her own way without interruption,
or at least began to guess as much, and
she trembled anew for Dinah, yet could say
nothing to prepare her. Both the younger and
the elder woman were ill at ease in their new
quarters, though for diverse reasons. Dinah
was oppressed by the majesty of the place, and
found no joy at being waited on at dinner by
liveried menials, who brought her strange
dishes. Sir Sydney's maiden sister was kind
and curious, but Dinah had no heart to talk of
her own affairs to anybody but Ethel. Elderly
Miss Cheston pronounced enthusiastically upon

Miss Donne, whom she had always admired,
though hitherto chiefly at a distance.

Not at all countryfied,' said Miss Cheston
to her brother ; not rustic in the least. Quite
a lady. No mauvaise honte about her.'

To this Sir Sydney agreed with a pre-occupied
air, being engaged with the ripening of
his own benevolent plans. His sister, who was
perforce acquainted with them, thought it all
deliriously romantic, and waited for the denouement
with much anxiety.

You'll keep a still tongue till it's all over,
Dorothea,' said Sir Sydney.

My dear Sydney,' said the maiden sister,
can you doubt me ? '

Cheston made no answer to this appeal, but
went back to his plotting.

At that moment Ethel and Dinah were
closeted together, and the younger woman, fancying
that she saw the inevitable coming, led the
talk to the topic the widowed wife most loved.
Dinah told the old story over again : how tried
Joe had been, and how valiantly he had gone
away, and how he had never again been heard

of. A few tears fell, but the story was ancient
now.

4 It's very strange to think of, Dinah', said
Ethel, steeling herself. ' If lie were alive and
you were to meet, you might not know each
other

Dinah disbelieved. She saw the fresh -
coloured youngster in the garments of six-and-twenty
years ago, his long hair worn in the
fashion of that bygone day, the callow bit of
whisker on his cheek, his clear front, his blue
eyes. Time made no difference to him. She
would know him, yes, amongst ten thousand !
She said so as she wiped her eyes, and took up
her lacework again.

He would be changed,' persisted Ethel.
4 We all change in less than six-ands twenty
years, dear. If he were still alive, and if you
saw him, you would not know him. If you
and I parted to-day and met no more for all
that time, do you think you would know me ?
I should be an old woman.'

Dinah shook her head with a mild showery
smile.

6 A woman doesn't forget her husband, my
dear,' she answered. ' No, no. And the father
of her child and all. You don't know what it
is, mydarlin'.'

I wonder how it would feel, Dinah,' said
Ethel, ' if one were married, and one's husband
went away and came back again after so long
an absence.'

Why, what makes you talk of that ? ' cried
Dinah.

■ I was always fanciful,' answered Ethel.
But don't you think it would be terrible rather
than happy, after such a time ? '

'No,' said Dinah. ' Not if he was to come
back cold from his grave, poor thing. Do you
think anything could make Joe terrible to me,
my dear ? I've laid awake many an' many a
time, praying' to see his poor ghost, if it wasn't
wicked to ask such a thing. You'll think mea
foolish woman perhaps, my clear,' continued
Dinah with a smile more tearful than before,
1 but if I snowed he'd stay away o' purpose, an'
was alive now anywhere, I'd march there barefoot
an' ask him to let me see him now an' then.

I think it's God as puts such feelings in a
woman's heart when she marries a man and has
chiltern by him. I don't think anybody else
has such thoughts.'

Dinah,' cried Ethel, throwing her arms
about her friend's neck, ' you are the best
woman in the world.'

No, my dear,' answered Dinah, kissing her.
8 If you marry and have children, you'll know
what I mean.'

There was surely no need to probe Dinah's
heart further than this, and it was only too
clear that when errant Joe came back again his
wife would have forgiveness and a welcome for
him. But — Ethel vowed inwardly and with a
grand flush of anticipatory wrath — when the
man came back and misbehaved himself, he
should repent any suffering he might bring to
Dinah. He should suffer in return, and should
be ashamed of himself, if any possibility of
shame lay in him.

It was night-time when this conversation
was begun, and it was late when the talk to
which it led was over. Dinah dreamed of Joe

that night, and saw him as he used to be, and
at the close of the dream she awoke.

Not know you, my life's darling' ! ' she cried
to herself, reaching out her arms in the darkness.
' Always yours, Joe ; always yours ! '

And so, with no guess that the life-long
truant was so near, she wept herself back to her
dreams again. Sleep, faithful lover — sleep, and
dream happily ! Live a little while in the past,
and be glad in it !

Early in the morning, Cheston, with his
brown beard blowing back in the free air and
his shoulders squared resolutely, turned the
slashing bay mare in the direction of the Buzzard,
and made good speed to Mr. Bowker's
cottage. Joe was at the mine, and the Baronet,
leaving his horse in the care of Mr. Bowker's
eldest son, walked off to find him. Seeing him
at the pit's mouth in company with one or two
miners, he called him and led the way into the
offices.

I suppose,' he said with a laugh, ' that now
this business is over you've no desire to keep
Eh ? '

I don't know,' said Joe a little drearily,
it's interesting work, rather

Pooh ! ' said the Baronet. ' I've come
over to take you back with me. You've had
enough of this. The reason for which you
came here exists no longer.'

Cheston ! ' said Joe, paling somewhat as he
spoke. * You mean well, but you mustn't trap
me. I know who is staying at Worley Hall
with you ! '

The deuce you do ! ' cried Cheston, his
countenance falling.

'Young Keen went over to see her last
night,' said Joe, 6 and they told him at the hotel
where they had gone to. No, Cheston, let
things take their course for a while, and give
me time to think.'

1 Now, look here, Joe,' said Cheston, laying
both hands on his old chum's shoulders and
shaking him to and fro a little, ' there's something
in the Bible about the kisses of an enemy
being deceitful, and the wounds of a friend faithful.
It's a true word, if ever one was written.
How about that lad of yours ? Are you going

to let him play the devil with his mother's heart
and your fortune, or are you going to step forward
like a man, and say, " Here am I, Joe
Bushel], come to life again, and going to try todo
my duty, and keep things square ! " Now,
which is it to be, Joe ? Tell me.'

I have a present hold upon the lad, Chester,'
urged Joe. * I have told him that if he
misbehaves himself I won't stand by and see it.
I could go in and stop any extravagances of his
with a word.'

'Listen to me, now,' cried the Baronet
grimly. ' If Mahomet won't come to the mountain,
the mountain will have to travel to Mahomet.
If you won't come to your wife, your
wife shall come to you.'

Have a little patience with me,' said Joe.
I don't want to distress her. Let me hear
what Miss Donne says before we do anything.'


Hang Miss Donne ! ' said Cheston ungallantly.
' No,' he added laughing, ' don't hang
Miss Donne. She is a very charming young
woman, and a good one, or I'm no judge of

characters. But now — will you come? Yes
or no ? '

'Not until I know that my coming mayn't
be a downright horror to her, Cheston. Not

until she's prepared a little '

4 And half dies of expecting you before she
sees you interjected Cheston, laying his hands
on Joes shoulders again, and once more rocking
him to and fro. c The wounds of a friend
are faithful. Remember that, if I hurt you, old
man. You're the same irresolute Joe Bushell
as of old. The same irresolute Joe Bushell who
couldn't find it in his heart to confess that hew
T as married — the same Joe who meant everyday
to write to his wife confessing his failure to
find a home for her, and always put off the
writing till he never wrote at all. Not a bad
Joe Bushell, not by any means ; an honest
fellow, with, a good heart, but irresolute, irresolute,
irresolute.'

4 Yes, Cheston,' answered Joe ; ' but not
irresolute now, if I know my heart at all. I'm
slow in finding where duty lies. The way's
perplexed. I want to go back, Cheston. I

want to make up, if I only could, for a little
of what she's suffered. But I must think of
her, and think of her only.'

6 Well, Joe,' returned Cheston, gripping him
more warmly still by the shoulders, as Joe
stood with bent head to hide the tears that
dripped slowly through his beard to the earthen
floor, ' you must let your friends act as diaries,
and hasten things a little. That's all. I won't
press you for the present. Good-bye, old man,
and keep a good heart. You'll be together,
and be happy yet, the pair of you, I hope and
trust. She's a dear woman, Joe — a dear good
woman ! '

Yes,' said Joe ; ' I know it.'

Cheston shook him by the shoulders once
again, and left him there. As he marched
towards his dog-cart he muttered a great oath
to his beard.

1 I'll bring that foolish fellow and his wife
together before the sun goes down.'

He filled his meerschaum, stepped into Mr.
Bowker's cottage for a light, charming Mrs.
Bowker's heart with noisy disabilities, threw

half-a-crown to Bowker the younger, mounted
the dog-cart, touched up the slashing mare,
and drove away. The first thing he did on
reaching home was to find his sister. He threw
himself into a chair and faced her with an air
of gloomy determination.

1 What is the matter, Sydney ? ' cried the
elderly spinster.

'You'll keep your month shut, Dorothea,
about what I'm going to tell you?' he demanded.


8 Eeally, Sydney,' she declared, ' you grow
quite horrid. What a dreadful phrase ! What
is it?'

1 Promise ! ' he asked, and she promised.
That fellow won't come ! '

Dear me ! ' said Miss Cheston ; * I thought
he was so eager to be reconciled to his wife.'

6 So he is, but he's got some maggot in his
head about her having learned to hate him
during his absence, and about the shock of his
return being terrible to her. You know where
he is ? Very well. Did you ever go down a
coal mine ? '

What a question ! You know I never
did.'

Well, don't you think it rather an odd
thing that a lady living all her life in this part
of the country has never been down a coal
mine? Don't you want to go down a coal
mine ? '

4 Certainly not,' replied the lady.

Not if you could persuade Miss Donne and
Mrs. Bushell to want to go down a coal mine
too ? Not if we went to the Buzzard, and in
place of going down I just walked into the
offices with Mrs. Bushell and said, " Excuse
me, madam, but this is your husband. Fight
it out between you ! " '

6 Wouldn't that be too sudden, Sydney ? '

Won't the news be sudden whenever it
comes ? ' her brother asked. ' Now, will you
help me ? Will you want to go down a coal
mine when we're at luncheon, and persuade
the others to come with us ? '

Oh,' said the spinster, fc you begin it,
Sydney.'

Very well,' said the Baronet. ' I'll begin

it. Back rue up, and we'll have this mournful
business over, and take to piping and gaiety
again.'

So, being foiled on one side, the obstinate
Baronet made this new approach, and opened
his batteries at luncheon.

Dorothea,' he began, c I don't believe you've
ever been down a coal mine.'

I never have,' responded Dorothea; adding
untruthfully, but according to programme, ' I
should like it of all things.'

Have you ever been down a coal mine,
Mrs. Bushell? No? Nor you Miss Donne?
How singular ! What do you say, Dorothea ?
If your guests would like to go, I'm thinking
of going down my new mine, the Buzzard, this
afternoon. It's quite clean, and perfectly safe.

The deceitful Dorothea, animated by the best
intentions, quite sparkled with delight over the
prospect. The spirit of adventure and daring
awoke in Ethel's heart, and she would like to
go of all things. Dinah turned a little pale at
the idea, and shook her head, but, being of a
yielding nature, was overruled, and consented.

VOL. III. L

She would like it very much she said, only —
she was a little timid. But she would be glad
to see what a mine was like, if Sir Sydney
Cheston was sure there was no danger.

I shall lead you into no danger, Mrs.
Bushell,' cried Sir Sydney jovially. ' Have no
fear.'

So the thing being settled, the women retired
after luncheon to put on their plainest
and least spoilable clothes, and when they
w r ere dressed Sir Sydney led the way to the
carriage and drove off with them, bearing in
his heart a resolution the like of which would
not be unbefitting in the leader of a storming
party. Dorothea was fluttering, as any middle-aged
tender-hearted maiden lady would have
a right to flutter under such circumstances as
she found herself in. Ethel, for the first time
for many a long week, was gay at heart again.
The sense of adventure, for there was just a
spice of danger about her thoughts of the
expedition, brightened and revived her, acting
like a spiritual tonic of a strongish sort. Dinah,
innocent motive-power of the whole movement,

was somewhat nervous, but would not show it.
The road on which they travelled had for her
the memories it had for Joe a few weeks earlier,
and the young figure with the long light hair
worn in the fashion of 1850, and the blue eyes
and the callow bit of sprouting whisker, went
with her all the way. They passed the Saracen
(she had dropped her veil a mile before), and
she saw it changed and unlike itself. The new
face it wore chilled her, curiously.

The genial and noisy Baronet was so obviously
changed by the way that Ethel began to
suspect him. But she could say nothing and
do nothing, and her suspicion, after all, was
only a vague fear, and had no ground to go
upon.

The carriage turned by-and-by into the
lumpy lane, and there Dinah, who sat behind,
sighted John Keen talking with a bearded stiff-set
stranger whose face was partly turned away.
John caught sight of her at the same time, and
the bearded stranger stepped through a gap in
the hedge and disappeared. Sir Sydney Chester
used evil language, inwardly, and lashed

L 2

his horses so that they sprang, and elicited a
squeak of fright from Miss Dorothea. For the
vanished figure was Joe Bushell's, and a word
of John's, as Sir Sidney guessed, had set him
off.

Hilloo, Keen!' cried Cheston, jerking his
horses up viciously, ' who was that you were
talking to ? '

6 Your manager at the Buzzard, Sir Sydney,'
John responded, refusing to be drawn into the
Baronet's plot, and indeed in his own mind
gravely disallowing it all merit.

Where's he gone to ? ' growled the Baronet
angrily. ' Can't you get him to come back,
Keen ? Follow him, there's a good fellow

John obeyed, but after a ten minutes' absence
rejoined Sir Sydney at the mouth of the
mine. He took him aside.

It's of no use, Sir Sydney. He will not
startle her. He is afraid of shocking her — ■
really afraid. Do him justice. Try to bring it
about in a quieter way.'

'Hang it all,' Cheston grumbled, heartily
savage at his failure. ' I've brought 'em all

here on a fool's errand, pretending to take 'em
down the mine. Confound the mine ! '

4 Well,' said John bluntly, ' that's better
than bringing them with no reason at all, sir.
Take them down, Sir Sydney, and then take
them home again, and let us be content to wait
a little. Your friend will yield, if not to your
pressure, to the persuasion of his own heart,
by-and-by.'

Dorothea,' called Cheston, ' come here.'
His sister obeyed his summons. ' That fellow's
seen us and bolted,' he said bitterly ; ' and now
I shall either have to confess that I've brought
you on a fool's errand, or you'll have to go
down, though I don't think you're very hungry
for it.'

I don't want to go, Sydney,' said Miss
Dorothea.

1 Well, stop where you are,' said Cheston
with brotherly brutality. ' I'm not going to
look like a fool, in addition to being one. I
shall go down, and take Miss Donne and Mrs.
Bush ell with me.'

Can I be of use ? ' cried John. In the

exercise of that double-barrelled profession of
his, John had surveyed the Buzzard, and knew
his depths as well as any man alive. He said
as much, being eager to attach himself to Miss
Donne's party and Miss Donne.

You'll spoil your broadcloth,' said the
Baronet.

8 Oh,' said John, ' I'll borrow a jacket and
a cap ; ' and with that he ran off, returning a
minute later in an unb rimmed felt hat for all
the world like a great basin inverted, and a
new jacket of white flannel lined with carpeting
of a brilliant pattern. Ethel turned away to
laugh at him in private, and John was delighted
to see her sparkling once again, even at his own
expense.

Mr. Bowker was on the bank-side, and came
down to make the necessary preparations. It
is the custom in that part of the world not to
use a cage but an open skip to descend in. The
skip is a mere square of boards, suspended from
the chain which lowers it by a big inverted
letter U of iron. When the womenfolk saw
this doubtful means of descent and the yawning

cavernous black of the mine below it, a
tremor ran through them.

c All right, ladies,' said Mr. Bowker, observing
this. ' Dort yo' be afeard. I'll fix the
lot on you as right as a trivet.'

A sort of sliding door being pushed across
the mouth of the mine, the skip was lowered
and allowed to rest upon it. The ladies with
renewed tremors stepped forward and took their
places, Cheston and Keen accompanying without
tremors, the Baronet still sulky from the
disappointment he had suffered, the young
lawyer quite beaming at the splendid treat fortune
had thrown into his way. Miss Cheston,
Ethel, and Dinah were provided with chains,
which being passed securely round the waist
and firmly attached to the inverted iron U,
seemed at least to do away with all danger of
falling off. Cheston and John stood at opposite
corners of the square.

Beady ? ' cried coal Mr. Bowker.

'Wait a bit,' cried the Baronet in answer.
Bun up to the " Dudley " while we're down
and order half-a-dozen of champagne. We

shall want a glass of wine when we come up.
Eh, ladies ? Now we're ready.'

Coal William gave the signal. The skip
was hoisted, with a general inclination on the
part of the feminine contingent to squeal and
hold on with ridiculous tightness — the latter
impulse obeyed, the former resisted. Then,
at a vigorous push of coal William's foot,
away went the sliding door, the black chasm
yawned, and the skip dropped like a stone,
with a motion so smooth and unshaken that
the gleaming walls on either side seemed to
shoot up past it, and the travellers themselves
to hang stock still. In a while the walls began
to mount less quickly, then softly ceased to
mount at all, and the ladies were aware of a
black cavern with an immense fire on the floor
of it. John was off first, and assisted in unbinding
Miss Donne and helping her down to
firm earth. Happy John ! full of knowledge
and able to answer all inquiries. Inquiries
came in on all sides as to what was this and
that and the other, and John was concisely
fluent in reply, conscious that he sounded

businesslike and manly in his goddess's ears.
Further into the bowels of the earth — the heat
sweltering — Miss Dorothea's maiden susceptibilities
shocked by the sight of coal males,
who lay or knelt pecking at the coal, naked to
the waist, in gloomy side avenues. By-and-by
the way began to be damp, began to be damper,
began to run in a little stream an inch deep.

Place used to be as dry as a chip, Sir
Sydney,' said John.

I've always heard so,' answered the Baronet
with unwonted ill-humour in his tones.
Why the dickens couldn't somebody have
told us the place was in this state ? The ladies
will catch their death.'

Oh dear no,' protested the ladies, interested
now, and their fears vanishing.

Water two inches deep, and deepening
apparently — ladies hesitating — Sir Sydney refusing
under the circumstances to go a step
farther.

1 It's quite dry yonder,' said John, pointing
a few yards ahead. ' They've come upon a
spring here, I suppose.'

Here meant a side-working to the right,
where, as a few farther steps made manifest, a
solitary personage sat pecking at the wall,
pipe in month, and working by a naked
candle.

6 Hilloo, my man,' cried John, ' where 's your
lamp ? '

6 Oi lint um, sort,' said the solitary personage
in accents sufficiently Milesian, and went
on pecking.

He sat upon a lump of coal in the middle
of a space as high and twice as wide as an
ordinary room door, and the water ran between
his outspread feet and round his improvised
stool like a bubbling brooklet.

8 Where's all that water coming from ? '
asked John.

Here answered Paddy, with an unusually
decisive blow of his pick.

As if he had struck another rock such as
that which Moses touched in the wilderness, the
water, as he drew away the pick point, sprang
out in a stream as thick as a man's thumb, and
spirted three or four yards.

1 Stop that ! ' cried John, almost wildly.
Come out. Do you hear ? '

The man heard, but he struck the face of
coal again, and this time the water spouted out
thick as a man's arm.

4 You madman ! ' John yelled, and, turning,
he seized Ethel by the waist, and fairly lifted
her, and rushed up the steep incline of the dry
floor bearing her in his arms. As he ran, he
turned and shouted, ' This way for your
lives ! '

The women rushed towards him terror-stricken,
not knowing why. But John's eyes
had seen the whole surface of the wall in that
side avenue quiver, and he knew the ground of
his own fears. Before they could ask a question,
before he had even set Ethel fairly on her
feet, the wall, now twenty yards below them,
broke, and with a swishing sweep and a roar
the imprisoned waters leapt sheer against the
further wall, and poured up and down the
main pathway of the mine.

Eun ! ' shouted John. c This way ! '

He snatched his precious burden to his arms

again, and tore uphill. The mounting water
had him to the waist ; Cheston, with one arm
round Dinah and another round his sister, came
up behind. It was well for both men in that
desperate race for life and death that they were
strong and fleet, and well for all that one of
them knew the place so thoroughly.

The water ceased to pursue them, and
ebbed from waist to knee and from knee to
ankle until again they stood upon dry ground.
There were Davy lamps twinkling on the wall
at either side where they paused, and they
could see the water pouring back again to find
the lower levels after its first wild rush.

What does this mean ? ' cried the Baronet
panting.

There was an old working on the north,'
John answered with sobbing breath, as he set
his burden down, ' an old abandoned working
disused this eighty years. It must have filled
with water and that poor wretch broke into it.'

Can we get back when the rush is over ? '

No,' said John, staring at the water twenty
yards away, now heaving sullenly, but no

longer ebbing. ' At this point we stand fifty-feet
above the level of the bottom of the shaft.
There are fifty feet of water in the shaft therefore.
We are prisoners for a day or two.'

Miss Dorothea clasped her hands and fainted,
and the others looked upon each other in the
thick dusk with awful faces.

CHAPTEE XXXII.

Above, spring sunshine and the world unconscious
(even the local world as yet unconscious)
of disaster ; below, terror and wide-spread
death.

Joe Bushell, with mingled emotions, had
betaken himself to the great Midland capital
and there wandered desolate about the streets,
cigar in mouth, staring in at shop windows. It
was not a manly-looking part to play, this
dodging and evading of a woman who had
loved him, and to whom he had solemnly sworn
in the hearing of God and man to be faithful.
It seemed certain that Dinah would misconstrue
it if she heard of it, and would set it down to
his own blackguard and dastardly fear of meeting
her. Better end it all and let her know that
he was still in the flesh and waiting for her forgiveness
or her scorn, as it might be, and at least

desiring nothing but her happiness. He prayed
for guidance, poor Joe, as he wandered lonely,
elbowed out of the way of busy men, and staring
vacantly into shop windows ; and at last it
seemed as if a voice of guidance came. He
turned into an hotel, demanded a private room
and writing materials, and painfully and slowly
indited a letter to Miss Donne, beseeching her
to prepare Dinah carefully for the news, and
finally to show that letter to her. He set down
all his desires — his wish to leave Dinah in perfect
freedom if she chose it so ; his wish to help
her in the government of their erring son; his
wish that the fortune she had become possessed
of should remain exclusively her own ; his content
to do whatever she desired. He set down
also in plain uncompromising words the story
of his own base neglect of his promises, and
offered no extenuation for it. He begged pardon
humbly for the past, and he protested, in
words that moved him as he set them down,
his single and entire devotion to her will from
that time forward.

The writing of this letter was a long and

painful, business, and it was more than dusk
when he paced into the street with it, and
dropped it, feeling as if he dropped his heart
with it, into the gaping little mouth of zinc
at the general post-office. He had addressed
it to Miss Donne, care of Sir Sydney Preston,
Worley Hall, Staffordshire, and as he
walked the streets he speculated on the time
of its arrival, and wished it there, and wished
it recalled, or written otherwise, as you may
fancy of him.

The streets were all alive with gaslight, and
the people were pushing by him to the theatre,
when a dirty little fellow, fluttering a sheaf of
news sheets, came dancing by, piping, ' Awful
mining disaster. A hundred miners imprisoned.'
Then, as the lad danced along, Joe heard his
shrill tones sound the name of c Sir Sydney
Cheston.' With a horrible foreboding in his
heart he dashed after the lad, thrust a shilling
into one hand, snatched a paper from the other,
and with the damp sheet shaking in his fingers,
he pushed to a shop window and read the news.
He read through it almost at a glance, and his

heart fairly sickened within him. * Sir Sydney
Cheston,' so ran one paragraph of the curt telegraph
message, ' was accompanied by his only
sister and by Mrs. Shell and Miss Donne,
guests at Worley Hall, with whom the unfortunate
Baronet was on a visit of pleasure to the
mine.'

He stood a minute, understanding well
enough, but numbed and incapable of action.
Then, a cab passing, he hailed it, and leapt in,
and gave the man directions.

An extra pound,' he cried, ' if you're thereunder
the half-hour. Drive your hardest.'

The cabman had heard the news — it was allover
the district and in type in London news
offices by this time — and half to win his pound
and half because he had caught something of
that amazing flash which passes from man toman
sometimes, he flogged his horse along at a
furious speed, and once on the level, unobstructed
country road, put him fairly at a gallop,
and kept him at it, until the blazing, smoky
cressets round the Buzzard's mouth came into
sight, revealing a sea of faces, and the horse

VOL. III. M

began to stumble dangerously in the uneven
lane. Joe thrust a couple of sovereigns into the
driver's hand, and clashed from the cab, fighting
his way like a madman through the crowd.
Men and women at the sight of his face made
way for him, and called for others to make way.

6 Mek way their,' cried the hoarse Black
Country voices, ' consent see the mon's got
somebody down ? '

When once that cry began the crowd parted
for him and made way.

Bowker was at the mouth of the mine, his
face pale below its coal-dust, and his lips set
firmly. He was ordering here and there,
quietly and with self-possession.

Your wife's down, Master Joseph,' he said
when Joe laid a hand upon his arm. They
had talked of Dinah many times since the coal
little man had pierced the disguise of Joe's
alias. ' And the gaffer, an' his sister, an' young
Keen, an' Miss Donne, as used to belong to
Quarrymoor. Hoche up, an' be a mon, Master
Joseph. There's a lad o' mine down, too.'

What are you doing ? ' asked Joe with
forced calmness.

I sent for the fire-engines to help pump
said William, ' but the hose ain't long enough,
not to come near the water.'

I'll wire to Birmingham, London, anywhere,
for every foot that can be had for
money,' said Joe.

Eight ! ' cried William. e Yo' can leave
me here. I'll leave no stone unturned.'

Joe was off again, the crowd once more
dividing for him. The cabman was still where
he had left him, breathing his horse. Joe
mounted again and was driven to the local
fire office, then, having made inquiries, to the
telegraph office, whence in a minute or two
were despatched winged messages for succour
here and there. Next he raced back to the
scene of the disaster, there only to stand still
and taste the horrible nausea of waiting, whilst
the engines clanked, and the vast pumping
bucket dropped like a stone, or came up (with
every inch of steel rope that bore it vibrating

M 2

like a living conscious nerve) to vomit its
hundreds of gallons, and, stonelike, fall again.

It was in his mind all the while that his
coming back had led Dinah here. It was in
his mind that the letter of that afternoon was
too late written. A clay earlier it would have
saved her.

There was nothing to be done but wait.
The huge bucket went up and down, the
engineman drove his fiery steed as he had
never driven it before.

What depth of water, William ? ' asked
Joe with desperate quiet.

Fifty-two feet, we reckon,' returned
William.

5 What area does it cover ? '

'Young Wilkinson the surveyor's i' the
office wi' the plans,' answered William. ' He's
mein' his calculations. We shall know
directly.'

In a while the surveyor came with his
report : so many thousand cubic feet of water
in the mine, so many hundred feet being lifted
by the means at present at disposal. Result —

irrefragable and terrible — two hundred and
thirty-two hours' work before them, and by
that time hope all over.

No. There came answering messages from
London, from Birmingham, from Manchester.
Hose of specified size with brass screws and
pointing as indicated, on the way, enough to
serve half-a-dozen engines.

I am sorry to tell you, sir,' says a grave
man (manager of a great neighbouring factory),
speaking sorrowfully when Joe had read out
the last of these telegrams to William, ' that
fire-engines will be of no service.'

No service ? ' cried Joe, horror-stricken.
'Why not?'

How are the pumps to suck water at such
a distance ? '

This query fell like a blow on all who
heard it.

1 You must fill your hose with water to
make it draw, and to fill it you would have to
fill the mine. Every spot you pour in would
run through.'

Horrible, but convincing. Nature has but

one set of laws for all sets of human circumstances.
The man who had dealt this blow
had turned sadly to leave the place, when Joe
seized him by the arm.

6 Stop.' He half thought he knew him.
8 You are an engineer ? '

Yes. A bit of one.'

6 Come with me to the offices, and for
Heaven's sake tell me if there's anything in a
scheme I have.'

They pushed through the crowd in silence,
and once within the office, Joe, with a trembling
hand, drew a pencil from his pocket, and taking
a sheet of paper, made two parallel perpendicular
lines upon it.

Take that,' he said, ' as representing the
hose.'

6 Yes,' said the other nodding.

Joe drew a line across the other two in the
middle and one at the base.

6 Take this as representing the water-line,
and this the bottom of the shaft.'

8 Yes,' said the manager again.

6 Take this as representing a brass raise,'

continued Joe, scoring two lines across the
bottom of the imaginary hose. ' Suppose the
case fixed firmly by a screw. Suppose it filled
with gunpowder enough to blast it — an electric
wire attached — the whole thing lowered — the
tube filled with water — the pumps ready '

There's something in that, maybe,' said the
manager with Scotch caution. ' But, ah 'm as
ignorant of hydraulics as a baby. Anyway,
we'll test it. Come away wi' me this minute.'

So for one hour at least there was something;
else to do than wait. The two men
rushed together to the great factory where the
Scotchman held command, and the manager's
hands drew the plans for the powder case,
hands of skilled artisans were set to work
at it, hammers rang on anvil, and red sparks
flew, and the thing was done with incredible
rapidity and deftness.

1 We shall want more than one,' said Joe ;
how many engines can. we get ? '

8 One steam, three or four manuals,' responded
the manager. 4 Mon,' he added,
you've a head on you.'

My wife's in the mine,' said Joe, as if that
explained it all.

6 Ay, ay,' said the Scotchman quietly.
i Make five or six o' they things,' he added to
his foreman, 'and get water-tight wrappings
for them all. I'll take this with me. Send a
man to the High Street for the fire-engine, an'
if they say it's of no service, tell them they're
mightily mistaken, an' we'll make it of service.
And now, sir, to wire for every fire-engine we
can get.'

Messengers who had waited at railway
stations for the expected hose, came with it
lumbering in waggons in the dead of night.
Crowds of men harnessed to great ropes
dragged at manual engines in the dead of night
along the lumpy lane, and haled them to the
pit's mouth. Deft mechanics, despatched from
the great capital of ingenious industry close by,
set up their electric machine, uncoiled their
wire, and fixed their insulators. The vast crowd
(ten thousand people gathered there, and lingering
an hour after midnight to watch if this
new hope availed anything) pressed round inclose

serried phalanx till all was ready. A
score of brawny hands were on the pump-shafts
the tube was lowered and filled — the wire
sone with it — the finger of a deft artisan
pressed the little ivory button that awoke the
spark.

Pump ! ' roared the engineer, and up and
down went the pump-shafts, swift and steady.

8 Does it draw ? ' from lip to lip. ' For
God's sake, does it draw ? '

It draws ! Hurrah ! It draws ! '

The crowd cheered wildly, but in a second
or two the clank of the pump-shafts ceased,
and an ominous silence spread about from the
shaft of the mine, as though it radiated from
a centre. The ignorant experiment had failed,
as it was bound to do. Nature has but one set
of laws for all sets of human circumstances,
no hopes can touch her or despairs move her.

Joe and Bowker, each with his hands
clenched on the pumping-shaft, stared across
the body of the engine at each other in mute
despair. The far-off outer circles of the crowd
were still cheering, when, by one consent, the

volunteer workers let fall their hands and
turned away. The scattered cheers died off,
and there was dead silence, and then a murmur,
and the news of the failure went through the
crowd and silence fell again. Joe sat down
upon a great coil of the useless tubing with
hanging head and useless hands depending between
his knees. The Scotch manager tapped
him on the shoulder.

6 We had better be doing something than
nothing,' he said quietly. ' Heaven alone
knows how long it will take to do it, but we
must just try to dig them out from the workings
of the old Bowler, yonder.'

Joe made no answer, until the Scotchman
seized and shook him by the shoulder.

6 No giving way man,' he urged, fi whilst
there's even a bit of a chance left. 1

Not while there's a chance,' said Joe, like
a man in a dream.

The Scotchman, passing an arm through
his, led him to the offices of the mine, where
sat the young surveyor, poring over the
plans.

c Where's the nearest point,' asked the factory
manager, ' between the Buzzard and the old
Bowler ? '

Here,' answered the other, laying a finger
on the plan before him.

Ay,' said the Scotchman, bending down,
c and what's the distance ? '

1 Sixty yards,' said the surveyor, laying a
little rule across the plan, and checking his calculation.


The engineer shook his head.

There's small hope of getting through that
in time.'

None whatever,' said the other, and rising,
folded up the plan and laid it by.

The three stood quite silent for a minute,
when the engineer, with a swift gesture, took
the other by the arm.

Who called the old Bowler ? ' he demanded.


■ I did.'

And young Keen,' said the engineer,
4 called the Buzzard. Now tell me one thing
on your soul.' He seized the plan and opened

it with nervous haste. ' Did you ever allow
for the variation of the needle ? '

The other looked at him doubtfully, as not
understanding.

No,' he said.

Do you know what I am talking about ? '
cried the Scotchman.

No,' said the other again.

Then there's a chance. Young Keen and
I had a talk about that very matter years ago,
and he told me he always made strict allowance
for that same variation. Now, if that be so,
the plan lies, and the two workings are nearer
each other than anybody guesses. The Buzzard
working keeps straight on, and the Bowler,
running by the right of it, has always got a
tendency towards the right, and that gives us a
start of God knows how many yards. We must
get at them through the Bowler. It's Sir Sydney's
own mine, and if it wasn't there'd be no
man such a villain as to throw an obstacle in
the way of work like this. Come away with
me this minute.'

At the mere prospect of work to do, Joe

rose with a new look on his face, and the three
men left the offices at a run, the Scotchman
leading.

I want volunteers,' cried Joe wildly, and
in answer to the cry the whole crowd swayed
round him.

1 Steady,' said the engineer. ' Working
miners only. We can do with no others.' And
from his knowledge of the men he began to
call out a list of names of those about him.
How many can work at once ? ' he asked,
turning to the engineer.

I'll take a dozen down to start with,' said
the other, and send up for as many more as we
can find room for.'

Joe set himself at the young surveyor's side,
marched with him to the edge of the shaft of
the neighbouring mine, and descended with the
first batch. The surveyor indicated the place
at which the work should be begun, and in as
little time as it takes to tell it, the men were
stripped, and at it.

Not only the intense and absorbing hope
of saving life, but the element of uncertainty

which beset the enterprise, inspired the workers
with almost superhuman vigour. There was
not a man there who did not in his own mind
so exaggerate the difference of the accurate
and inaccurate methods of measurements that
he hoped at every stroke of the pick to break
in on the imprisoned party, and this ever-present
hope remained, though deferred for hours,
and then again deferred. And amongst all the
workers none wrought with such a passion of
despair and hope as Joe himself. Morning
dawned, party had relieved party, and the
work had gone on for many hours without a
pause, before his hands, wearied to helplessness,
let fall the pick, and even then he sat in the
level beyond the workmen, and watched how
every stroke told, until in his wild impatience
at the slowness of the work's progress, he could,
but that he restrained himself, have risen to tear
at the wall which imprisoned Dinah, with his
finger nails. His first mad burst of labour had
so worn and spent him that his hands hung
powerless at his sides, and when a friendly
miner brought him food and drink he could

not reach out a finger towards either of them.
Food he refused, but he drank greedily from
the cup held to his lips, and sat on there,
watching, as relay after relay of men relieved
each other, and the black tunnel yawned
deeper and deeper, and the wall of its far-end
melted slowly.

Every now and then when the ' shot ' was
prepared the men, retiring from the coming
explosion, forced him gently away, but he
always came back and took his old seat, and
watched with the old impatient hunger.

But a new thought struck Joe at last, and
he was away to the telegraph office again,
the Scotchman at his side, to wire to London
for a diver, to hold communication with
the prisoners if might be, and if it might be,
to carry them provisions. Joe had a scheme
of lowering barrels filled with food, wine,
candles, and lamps, and loaded to make
them sink to the foot of the shaft. He would
have a chain lashed to each barrel, and the
diver should carry the chains, and the prisoners
tug up the barrels and provisions themselves,

and have hope again, and some comfort whilst
they waited for deliverance.

4 Don't be too sanguine, sir,' said his newfound
friend ; ' I'm sorely afraid of the gas.'

What gas ? ' cried Joe.

In those old workings (the manager told
him sorrowfully), from which the water broke,
there was a terrible chance that there were
hollows which the springs had not filled up.
If that were so, there would be bred from the
stagnant water, in the womb of earth, gases
fatal to life : these gases would follow the
water, spread into the new workings into which
the flood had broken, and slowly but surely
choke every living creature there.

'That is almost our greatest fear,' he
added ; k and it was best that you should know

it

I might have known it,' groaned Joe, s if
I had only thought about it.'

Young Keen knew those old workings,'
said the engineer, ' but he's down, too, and I
doubt if anybody else knows much about them.
The shaft's not overbuilt, I know, and that's

some comfort. It depends, ye see, on the way
the workings run. If they run away upward
from the foot of the shaft, as they do in the
Buzzard yon, there'll be gas there, because the
bottom of the shaft would fill with water first ;
but if they run down or pretty level, the gradual
flow of water would push the air out, and leave
none behind to get foul and choke poor fellows'
lives out o' them.'

Pray Heaven they may run downwards ! ■
said Joe.

Amen ! ' said his companion, though he
added, ' it's past praying about, for the ways
were made eighty years ago. We'll just have
to wait and see, ma poor friend.'

Meantime, how did it fare with the imprisoned
?

There were drowned bodies floating in the
dark caverns there, none could yet tell how
many. The survivors numbered sixty-seven,
all told — the three women, their two companions,
and sixty-two miners. These last,
when the news of the peril reached them, came
trooping down with their lamps, a doleful

VOL. III. n

crowd, and lolled about by the edge of the
water, talking in hoarse murmurs with each
other. This went on for hours.

Men,' said John Keen at last, standing on
a truck and speaking in a loud firm voice,
8 listen to me. You know me, most of you, and
you know I know my business, and you'll take
my advice. You know where this water came
from?'

6 Yes,' answered two or three. ' It must
ha' come from th' ode working's.'

It comes from the old workings of the Sill
Pit. Do you know what will follow it when
they begin to pump it down ? '

6 Choke damp,' said one voice.

Choke damp,' John Keen repeated. ' Then
what chance have we ? '

None but i' God's mercy i' the next world
said the man who had answered last.

Yes,' said John, ' one chance in this world.
A chance to build an air-tight wall of coal here.
A chance to wait until they can clear the mine
of water and gas and set us free again.'

That's a poor chance,' said one. ' It's a

chance o' lingering' till we're dying' o' starvation,
Mr. Keen, an' I, for one, says " Lie down an'
go to sleep, an' let the gas come up, an' have it
o'er an' done wi." '

'I say "No" to that!' cried John Keen.
'I say that whilst we have these ladies with
us, it's our business to do all we can for them.
I say, besides, that no man has a right to throw
away the life God gave him, or to lay it down
if he can help it until God calls him. Who
says with me ? '

'I do ' and ' I do ' here and there among
the crowd, but for the most part the men were
dumb and despairing.

8 Then let us set to work like men,' cried
John descending. ' Three men to the front
with spades. I want every inch of mud that
we can get to fill up the chinks of the wall.
We can beat earth and slack up with the water
there. And then coal for the wall. Work,
lads, and trust in God.'

Eight, Mr. Keen,' said one old grey-bearded
man. 'Let's ask a word o' blessing
on the work.'

N 2

Pray while you work, Gibbons,' said John,
who knew the old fellow as a Methodist local
preacher of signal piety. ' We can't afford to
waste a minute.'

1 There's no time wasted i' praying God,'
said the old man, and lifted a hand for silence.
The men bowed and bared their heads. ' Lord,
spare us,' he prayed hoarsely, ' to see our wives
an' our little 'uns once more if it be Thy holy
will ; an' if not, prepare us to see Thy face.
And we ask it for the Lord's sake. Amen ! '

Amen ! ' here and there hoarsely answered
from the crowd.

I've a hand in this work, lads,' cried Chester.
' God helps them that help themselves.
That's Scripture, Gibbons, eh ? '

'No, Sir Sydney,' said the old man; 'ita
good word, but it ain't between the boards o'
the Bible.'

Stirred by example, the more despairing
took heart and set to work with the rest. The
barrier against death rose higher and higher,
and while the work went on, it was noticed that
all on a sudden the water began palpably to ebb.

'They are pumping amazingly up there,'
said John Keen. 8 Work, lads, work, for life
or death ! '

All was order and quiet, no man interfering
with another, but all working in concert. And
the wall was three feet thick, and as solid as
mud and coal could make it. They were
closing it in at the roof, and men with spades
were busy plastering the inner side, when all
at once a portion of the upper surface gave
way, a hundredweight of coal rolled down, and
a human figure with it. There was one piercing
shriek as they came to earth together — then a
heart-rending groan and quiet.

4 It's Mister Keen, lads,' said old Gibbons.
Steady there. Don't drag at the poor lad i'
that way ! Pull the coal off first.'

Never mind me,' said John faintly. ' Put
me in the truck there and get along. Por
God's sake, save the women ! '

fc Ay, ay ! ' said one, and two or three lifted
him gently.

Set me where I can see tl^ie work,' said
John valiantly, and fainted.

The rough fellows left him to the women,
and went back to their fight with death. In a
while their work was complete, the last cranny
stopped, the inner surface of their wall of salvation
as smooth as the top of a table.

I have forborne to tell you of the women's
thoughts, and I still forbear, for I desire to have
no reader who has not heart enough to guess
how terrible they might be. They had sat in
quiet at least until now, and had made no
outward moan. The words which had been
spoken in their hearing, the work which had
been done before them, told, too clearly for
misunderstanding, the nature of their peril, and
they bore it in quiet. Sir Sydney, in his shirt
sleeves, and all begrimed with coal dust and
sweat, had paused once or twice with an unvarying
formula.

We'll cheat the devil yet, my dears,' said
the Baronet sturdily. And indeed in Sir Sydney
Cheston's mind there was present very visibly
a battle with the actual Enemy in his own
abode of darkness, and he spoke with no profanity
or levity.

John's swoon faded into sleep, and sleep
broke into a painful yet delicious dream. He
was lying somewhere in the dark at rest, after
some awful toil, and suddenly Ethel's face
appeared before him with a heavenly light about
it. And she reached out a hand and touched
him, and the touch was agony. Yet it was her
hand and the touch was meant for kindness.

Ethel,' he murmured. ' My love ! Ethel ! *

He awoke, and her face was indeed bent
over him.

1 Did I hurt you ? ' she asked softly. ' Pray
be still, I will hurt you as little as possible.'

His arm was broken, and his ribs were
crushed, and the women during his swoon had
cut away the cloth from his wounds, and with
fragments torn from their own dresses were
binding them to stop their bleeding. Some of
the men stood round the truck, and the light
from one of their closed lamps fell softly and
dimly upon Ethel's face. John looked up to
her once with his dark eyes filmed with pain,
and yet with a glance of ineffable love in them.
If he died, he thought, he died to save her. A

thrill of passionate hope Vent through him.
If he were her sacrifice — accepted. The hope
became a prayer. Great dangers and great
love breed such hopes and prayers in great
hearts. He prayed with all his soul to die for
her if his life might be taken for hers, and he
swooned again.

Ethel had heard his words, and they had
not fallen upon her ears alone. There was no
revelation for her in the random ' My love '
born of a dream of ecstacy and agony. She
had known that this gallant-hearted lad had
loved her, long and long ago it seemed, before
she herself had altogether learned to love a
scoundrel, and she had fixed her heart upon
the clay and had despised the gold. Well,
there was her destiny. She had not known.
He was brave, this wounded young fellow r ,
undaunted in the face of death, full of resource
when men used to peril had given up the cause
of life in despair. And in the girl's mind, there
was no hope of escape — none ! The man loved
her. Was that a crime, that she had treated
him so coldly for it ?

She and Dinah and Miss Cheston bound
his wounds, and the miners brought their heavy
Channel jackets and laid them out so as to make
a couch as comfortable as might be. Some of
the men had tea with them, carried in the tin
bottles miners use, and these by general consent
were stored up for the sufferer. As for the
rest of them, they could wait. Cheston's watch
was going still — it was his habit to wind it in
the morning — and it marked seven o'clock.
They had been fifteen hours in the mine already,
then, and so far nobody had thought of sleep.
The lamps died out, and one of the men set off
in the darkness for a store of candles kept in a
stable in the upper workings.

Only one light at a time,' said Sir Sydney ;
and the little dim lamp was set upon a ledge
in the wall, and twinkled there duskily, scarcely
making darkness visible.

The men, worn out, sat down or lay about
the coal floor here and there, and slept. The
heat was sweltering. Sir Sydney, having seen
to the women, took his seat by John Keen, and
waited and watched there in company with his

own thoughts. So for many hours there was
silence, and if any man awoke, he had no desire
to speak to his neighbour, but turned and strove
to get to sleep again.

This was the goal, then, to which Cheston's
good-natured impetuosity had led him, and not
him only.

8 1 meant it for the best,' he said bitterly a
thousand times, but the repetition was not of
much comfort to him.

John stirred uneasily and moaned every
now and then, and the watchful Baronet
moistened his lips with cold tea from one of
the tin bottles. The time went slowly, as if on
leaden wings. Cheston would rise on tiptoe
every half-hour or thereabouts and look at his
watch by the one glimmering Davy lamp, and
every time he did so he set it to his ear believing
it had stopped. But while his thoughts galloped,
time seemed to stand still, and every half-hour
was like a day. At last, when some six or
seven dreary hours had slipped away, he also
fell asleep, and once or twice the wounded man
moaned in vain. Ethel hearing him, arose,

and set the cold tea to his lips. He clutched
the bottle greedily, and would have drained it
but for her interposing hand. She re-arranged
the rough flannel garments on which he lay,
making his couch easier, and again he knew
her, and she seemed to hang above him like a
pitying and ministering angel.

Can I do anything more for you, Mr.
Keen ? ' she asked, seeing that his eyes followed
her with a look of intelligence.

Thank you,' he answered faintly. ' Nothing
more.'

The girl sat by the side of the truck, with
one hand upon the edge of it. When she had
sat thus a long time and had grown absorbed
in thought, she was startled by a soft cold pressure,
and looking hastily round, she saw that
John had struggled up on his sound arm, had
bent over and was kissing her hand. She rose
and laid him gently down again.

1 Lie still,' she said, ' or you will hurt yourself.'
She could not find it in her heart to offer
any severer rebuke than this.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

Mr. George Bushnell, the younger, sitting at
his desk one bright soft spring afternoon, earning
as lightly as he could some fraction of the
weekly five-and-thirty shillings, was startled by
the sudden advent of a stranger who demanded
him by name. The stranger turned out to be
one of Sir Sydney Cheston's clerks, and was
charged with a message from young George's
father ; a message to the effect that young
George must at once betake himself to Staffordshire
under circumstances of great urgency.
An ice-taloned pang — as Mr. Carlyle once
wrote a propos of Balaam — ran through brain
and pericardium, but the young man dared not
disobey. It was in his mind that he was to be
confronted with Sir Sydney, who would beyond
doubt remember him, and he was terrified at

the bare thought of the encounter. George's
employer made some faint opposition to his
going, but the messenger assured him of the
gravity of the occasion, and, acting on instructions,
gave no explanation to the youngster.
The time spent in the journey was full of uncomfortable
reflections and sensations, but
George had no stomach for questioning his new
companion, and the clerk himself, being of a
solid and stolid business mind, offered no remark
from start to finish. Even the dreariest
journeys come to an end, and at last young
George's journey terminated in the presence of
his father on the bank ol the Buzzard, crowded
still by thousands of spectators.

There has been an accident here,' said Joe
quietly ; ' have you read of it in the newspapers
? '

'No,' said George.

Joe told the story.

6 All that can be done,' he added, ' we are
doing. I thought it best that you should be
here.'

Young George could scarcely tell why.

Dinah's clanger concerned him very nearly, and
although he was not a sympathetic young man,
he felt horrified at the story. He had never
disliked Dinah, actively, and it was certainly
awful that she should be placed in such a position.
Her peril was in part his own, for if she
should not be recovered, what shield or hope
had he ? This terrible father of his might keep
him at clerkship all his life, and on the least
pretence leave all his money to a charity, to a
friend, to a wife perhaps. So that, taking it altogether,
young George experienced and displayed
as much grief as could be expected of him.

Among other aids for which Joe had called,
the diver came from London, and made a descent,
but speedily returned with discouraging
news. The mouth of the working had fallen
in, and there was no possible passage at present.
The women, wives and daughters of the imprisoned
miners, who sat in the hovels about the
top of the shaft, maintained the quiet characteristic
of their kind in such times of peril. They
refused to eat, for there is a superstition among
them that to take food seals the fate of their

dear ones below. All of them sat in silence
with their shawls drawn over their heads, and
waited with a patience heart-wringing to look at.

4 Thee sha'st have him back, Salina, if it's i'
mon's power to do it,' said William Bowker to
his wife whenever he passed her, and he always
went back to the work with renewed passion
and vigour after these words of cheer.

Some feeble power to grasp returning to
Joe's hands, he was down the mine again, and
for a while insisted on being allowed to take a
place once more, but seeing by-and-by how
weak his strokes were, and recognising the fact
that he filled the place of a better man, he fell
back sadly, and was fain to content himself once
more with watching. Whenever he could do it
without interrupting the work he paced the
tunnel, measuring it by his strides, and always
came back, groaning over the slowness of its
progress. The Scotch engineer begged him
again and again to rest, even though the man
who gave the advice recognised the impossibility
of it. But at last, when the work had been
prosecuted for fifty hours, a ' shot ' was fired,

and the men rushing back to renew their
labour, started a cheer, for lo ! the wall was
down. Joe ran to join them at this cheering
sound, but before he had reached the end of
the tunnel the men fell back upon him and
bore him away with them, and for a while recoiled
slowly backwards, step by step, and
turning, ran to the foot of the shaft, bearing
him amongst them, struggling and imploring.

8 It's all over, master,' said one man sadly,
the place is full o' choke damp.'

They all ascended to the mouth of the mine
and told the mournful news.

In the mind of every man and woman there
it made an end of hope. The women began to
eat, moistening their food with tears, and by
ones, and twos, and threes, they stole away to
their homes.

8 It's all o'er, Master Joseph,' said Bowker.

8 Yes,' said Joe, 8 it's all over.'

A cloud was round him, and he felt himself
a murderer. But though hope had gone,
labour could not yet be relaxed. The gas became
so dense in the shaft, that when a cage

of fire was lowered into it — an iron framework
holding more than a hundredweight of
glowing coal — the light went out as completely
and as suddenly as if it had been dipped in
water. Even for this last sad contingency the
workers were prepared, and the task of clearing
the mine was carried on as swiftly as if
hope still reigned in every bosom. The manner
of the clearing was simple and (all things considered)
rapid. At the edge of the shaft was
set up a revolving fan, and running from this
was a wide tube of iron, not unlike a stovepipe.
After travelling straight for a yard, the
pipe took a sudden bend and dipped into the
shaft. The fan being set in motion forced a
fierce current of wind through the tube, and ina
few minutes the topmost section of the shaft
was sufficiently ventilated to permit of a man
being sent down to attach a second length of
tubing to the first. This in its turn prepared
for the attachment of a third, and that of a
fourth, and so hour by hour the tube crept
slowly downward, each length being secured by
a holdfast driven firmly into the wall, and all
vol. in. o

the junctures being smeared with clay. The
crowd had long since melted, and it was midnight
when the foot of the shaft was reached,
and men in relays could be set to carry the
ventilating tube farther, and step by step
the devilish gas was fought out of the mine,
and hopeless morning dawned. Joe, despairing
and self-accusing, found the tremendous
physical strain of the labour a relief to him.
He could not think much or even feel much yet.
Four sleepless nights and days laid their hand
of heaviness upon his heart, and he felt only a
wretched numbness. His despair and his self-accusations
seemed to lie in wait for him
hereafter, and in the meantime he worked as
madly to get at Dinah's dead body as he had
worked while hope remained with him.

There was a dreary drizzle falling when he
ascended the shaft with his rough mining companions,
and left the work to a new relay of
men below. Young George had, of course,
long since known the end. He was sorry for
Dinah ; he was as grieved about Ethel as it was
in him to be grieved about anything, and ]ae

had taken his turn at work, not altogether
without manliness and courage. Joe had some
sore-hearted hope of him.

You had better lie down and get a little
sleep,' said George to his father, as they stood
in the drizzle together at the mouth of the
shaft ; and Joe, without a word of answer,
walked into one of the hovels and lay clown.
He tossed to and fro for half-an-hour, courting
sleep in vain, in spite of his fatigue and the
enormous labours of the past few days. He
seemed to hear the voice which shook Macbeth—


Methought I heard a voice cry ' Sleep no more.'

The horror of his thoughts, his unavailing
repentance, the memory of his errors, were so
heavy upon him that he rose again, and walking
once more to the head of the shaft, demanded
to be lowered.

1 May I go with you ? ' asked George.

Human motives are complex things, and
there was probably some real human pity and
repentance in the young man's heart when he

made this request.

j.

o 2

As you like,' his father answered. The
two went down together, without another
word, and after a while came in sight of the
last relay, with Bowker in command. The men
were at work at a great heap of debris, which
when Joe had left it had completely blocked
up the roadway, and they had so reduced it
that by this time there was ample space for a
man to climb over. The air was heavy, and
the lamps were burning dimly.

4 Their's damp beyond still, Master Joseph,'
said Bowker.

6 Ay,' said Joe quietly. ' How much
higher do you think the water rose ? '

Their's a sort of a sudden lift, like, here,'
returned William. ' The poor things 'ud tek
refuge a bit farther on. We shall light on
some on em when this is down.' He pointed
to the mound in front.

Joe, turning away, pushed through the
men, climbed up the heap of rubbish, and
waved his glimmering lamp to and fro in the
darkness, striving to make out what lay beyond.
Suddenly he cried out in a wild voice

which made every man there turn to look at
hin.

1 Bowker ! Come here ! ' William scrambled
up to his side. ' What's that ? ' cried Joe,
pointing eagerly through the darkness.

1 Gi' me a lamp their ! ' William called to
one of the men below.

The two fell rather than scrambled down the
slimy inner side of the bank, and advanced a
yard or two.

Send I may live,' gasped William, c they've
builded a wall again' the damp. That's young
Keen's coin', I lay my life. Zakiel,' he roared,
bring a peck here ! '

He dashed back to meet the man who
brought the pick, snatched it from his hand at
the summit of the mound, dashed back again,
and waving Joe aside, struck blow after blow
upon the wall with the energy of a madman,
and then ceasing suddenly, he set his ear against
the coal and listened.

Stop work their,' he yelled a second later.
6 Still as death every ran among ye.'

All sounds of labour ceased, and a deathlike

silence, broken only by a heavy breathing
here and there, fell upon the place. Joe followed
his companion's example, and set his ear
to the coal wall.

Tap ! tap ! tap ! upon the wall within.

6 Lads,' roared the little man in a voice like
a hoarse trumpet, ' their's some on 'em alive !
This way.'

Joe caught the pick from Bowker's hand
and drove it deep into an interstice between
two huge lumps of coal, and tugged so wildly
that the shaft of the tool broke, and he reeled
against the side of the working. But there
were hearts behind as willing as his own, and
arms as strong. The miners charged the heap
of rubbish with a gasping cheer, and fell upon
the wall of salvation as men in desperate battle
fall upon a foe.

c David,' said Bowker, laying his hand upon
one man's shoulder, ' goo up an' bring down
every mon their. Get the trolley-line cleared
all along.'

'Eight, gaffer,' answered David, and sped
away.

4 Yo' heard 'em tap, mister ? ' asked one
coal-blackened giant as he worked.

1 Stop, all of you ! ' cried Joe.

They ceased, and in the sudden silence they
could hear the sound of a score of picks beating
at the other side. At that glad token they
raised a cheer, and fell upon the wall again like
drilled furies, until a dim light shone through.

Who's that ? ' one of the rescuers shouted.

Ebenezer Howl,' said a voice inside.

How many on you ? ' cried Bowker.

Sixty-seven,' said Ebenezer Howl.

That's my feather,' said another voice.
'Is that Bill Bowker?'

'Me, lad. God bless thee!' William answered,
with the tears changeling his dusky face.

Cheston ! ' called Joe.

Eight ! ' answered the Baronet's voice.

Set to it ! ' Bowker cried. ' Get 'em out
o' this!'

The work began again on both sides, and
in a little while a breach was made. By some
sort of common consent — for by this time every
rough fellow there knew his story — Joe Bushell

was the first man allowed to climb through.
Cheston grasped him by the hand. Neither
could say more than ' God bless you ! ' but the
words expressed their own meaning, and were
spoken from the heart.

This way,' said Cheston, after a moment's
pause.

The men had torn the lamp open, and by
this time the whole remaining store of candles
burned dimly in the foul and abominable air.
Almost every man held a light, and Joe could
see the face and figure he had last seen at
Wrethedale. He ran forward and seized Dinah
by the hands.

Dinah,' he said, ' do you know me ? '

She answered not a word, but rose gasping,
and looked wildly at him, he holding her by
both hands.

You know me, Dinah ? '

She drew her hands away, and casting both
arms about his neck, and calling on his name,
she fainted. Joe bore her to the foot of the
shaft — he would allow no hands but his own
to touch her — and they were carried swiftly to

the open light of day. The message despatched
half-an-hour ago had flown far already, and all
about the fields were hurried figures making
for the mine, and any hurried figure seen from
a mile away wending in that direction was
taken as a signal, as in such cases it always is,
so that the whole district far and wide was
wakened to a mad mingling of hope and
wonder, and a thousand men and women were
on their way to the Buzzard's mouth from
every point of the compass. When Joe appeared
bearing his burden in his arms, there
were perhaps a hundred people gathered round
the shaft, and from them rose a roar of questioning.


1 Alive ? '

The tears were streaming down Joe's cheeks,
and he answered in a broken voice,

Alive ! '

They cheered like mad things, and far and
near about the fields arose answering shouts of
cheering. A hundred hands w T ere stretched to
offer help, but Joe laid his blessed burden down
unaided and knelt beside it.

How many down, mister ? ' asked one old
woman, touching him on the shoulder ; ' how
many ? '

Sixty-seven,' Joe answered.

Alive?'

Alive and well, thank God,' said Joe.

The hearers shouted with wild cheer on
cheer, answering voices came from the rainy
fields, hurrying steps quickened to a headlong
race, the crowd swelled and gathered with mad
herrings, the news was asked by each newcomer,
and told again with husky shouts of
triumph and delight. Men who were strangers
to each other, rough fellows unused to the
melting mood, shook hands with tears. Women
embraced each other, or knelt in thanksgiving.
Workers in neighbouring factories cast down
their tools and ran, shouting the news of rescue
right and left, and the crowd grew as if by
magic, until the surging mob rose high about
the mound, and every place of vantage was
flooded by the human wave.

Ethel, bravely as she had borne herself
through the long night of danger and famine,

fainted when she heard the news of rescue, and
she and Dorothea were brought to the light
unconscious of the maddening cheers which
hailed them. Then came John Keen muttering
rapidly in the delirium of fever, and at the
sight of his pale face and prone bandaged
figure the crowd forbore to cheer. But the
cheering began again with the next batch, and
went on with increase as the crowd grew vaster.

By-and-by, amongst the rescued came a
patriarch, Aminadab Hick by name, who had
a place in this chronicle once before, though
but a slight one. Dinah's mother bade him
good-night six-and-twenty years before this,
and he was an old man by this time. His
imprisonment, and the want of food and water,
had been almost too much for him, yet a
touch of native valour and humour brightened
his heart as he reached the surface and saw
heaven's blessed light again.

It was noticeable that the patriarch was
bare-footed when brought to bank. He was
so reduced that it was needful for one man
to take him by the legs and another by the

shoulders to bear him through the crowd.
Sighting a local cobbler there, he called out
to him feebly, with a quavering chuckle :

Bill ! Bill Tyson ! '

8 Hilloo ! ' said the local cobbler.

Got that their pair o' boots I give you a
order for, done yet? ' asked the patriarch.

No,' said the cobbler.

Look sharp about 'em then,' said the
patriarch, pointing to his feet. ' I shall
want 'em pretty soon. I have eaten my old
'uns.'

There was a great guffaw of laughter, in
which the prostrate patriarch joined feebly ashe
was borne away. His daughter was waiting
for him in the crowd, and they were crying and
blessing each other tenderly a minute later.
And every time the skip ascended with its load
of rescued men there were such scenes as you
may fancy. Mothers and children met husbands
and fathers ; sisters welcomed brothers ;
sweethearts, a little coy, perhaps, before this
awful danger came, cast off all coyness now,
and met their lovers with fast-falling tears and

clinging kisses and twining arms, and heart
joined heart no more to be divided. With the
last batch came Cheston, pale and grimed, but
sturdy, and waved a cheer to the roaring crowd,
who made at him and took him shoulder-high,
and patrolled with him in mad fashion about the
mound, until it occurred to some of the more
collected spirits that after a four days' fast a
substantial man like Sir Sydney might naturally
wish for something more solid than the mere
breath of popular applause. Food and wines
and restoratives of all sorts were there in plenty,
provided in the first hopeful days, and by-and-by
the Baronet was on his legs with a steaming
jorum of beef tea in his hands.

Your health, lads,' he said in his cheerful
voice, nodding round before he drank. ' God
bless you ! '

The Baronet's carriage and horses had been
quartered close by, and a hurried message
being now despatched for them, they came.

The men would fain have taken out the
horses, and dragged Cheston and his party
home in triumph, but he forbade them.

8 Think of the women, my lads,' he shouted.
They want rest and quiet.'

At this appeal the crowd forbore. There
were a thousand things to be done, and no man
for the moment with a head worth a straw
upon his shoulders. Young George stood
clumsily in the inner circle, not knowing what
to do, yet longing to do something to be of
service, or to look as if he were of service ;
something to break through the cloud which
rested upon him. Why had he not been the
first to discover the wall which had kept the
prisoners in safety? Or why, since chance
went against him thereat he not seized a
pick and made his way through first of all ?
He would willingly have done something to
redeem himself, if he had only seen his way
to it, and the way had not been dangerous
over and above the reasonable. As it was, he
could only stand there, a little hangdog in his
looks, known to everybody about him as a
convicted felon, and shunning everybody's eyes.
And the girl who had been his plighted wife was
lying in a dead swoon within six yards of him,

and lie had no right to go near her. Hands
coarsened with habitual labour had brought
her here ; hands foul enough with mire and
coal dust, but cleaner than his after all, and
worthier to touch her. There was his old
friend and companion lying wounded and unconscious.
He could do something, after all.

He pushed forward, and in doing so accidentally
thrust against William Bowker.

6 Bowker,' said George with hangdog looks,
poor Mr. Keen looks very ill. Where can we
get him to ? What is the nearest place ? '

'Nothing' nearer than my cottage,' said
William readily. ' We'll tek him their. Get
that door off its hinges, lads.'

Half-a-dozen men ran to obey the order,
and the door being unshipped, John was laid
upon it, and borne gently across the field, the
crowd making way. George, with hangdog air,
went on in front, commanding and entreating
in shame-stricken fashion, and on reaching the
cottage door opened it for the bearers, and gave
one of the men the only half-crown he had to
run for a doctor. The man started off, and

George stayed with his whilom rival, old friend,
and enemy, but before the doctor came he had
other and less welcome visitors.

Sir Sydney Cheston was for putting his
sister and Ethel and Dinah into the carriage,
and driving off with them at once, as they were,
but this rash counsel was overruled. When
Dinah recovered she saw above her her husband's
face, and Joe was holding a teaspoonful
of brandy and water to her lips. Seeing her
partially recovered, Joe. called for beef-tea, and
Dinah lay back crying feebly, but with infinite
happiness and contentment sipping at the spoon
he held to her lips. One of the miners'
sisters had already taken Miss Donne in hand,
and was pouring sherry by the teaspoonful
through her pale lips, and by-and-by the girl
revived and sat up. Cheston's attentions restored
his sister, and in a little while the women
became collected enough to observe the great
crowd of eager-eyed people watching them, and
modesty taking alarm, they rose and begged to
be taken away.

Not yet, my darling,' said the woman who

had charge of Ethel. c Come into th' offices,
ladies, an' pick a bit o' something gradual like,
my dears, an' get your strengths up.'

So they went into the offices and mixed
feeble tears with sherry and beef-tea, and sipped
the compound, until Ethel, who had hitherto
been more than half-dazed, even since her recovery
from her swoon, demanded to be informed
of the condition of Mr. Keen.

4 He saved all our lives,' she said. ' Where
is he?'

For the moment nobody knew, but a word
of inquiry traced him, and after a space of half-an-hour
or so, Cheston gave his arm to his
sister, and led the way, Joe following with Dinah
on his arm, and Ethel supported by the gallant
Bowker in the rear. The women were all three
terribly dragged and dirty, and Mrs. Bowker
dashed about for water and towels, brushes and
soap, and helped them at their toilet. They
had not starved altogether during their imprisonment,
for some of the men who had food
with them had voluntarily surrendered it for the
women. The fare was coarse and unaccustomed,

vol. in. p

but after the first day hunger drove them to it,
and they had enough to save them from actual
famine. But the stress and strain of emotions
during that long night — a night of ninety hours,
which dragged like ninety years — had left them
so haggard and woe-begone in aspect that they
looked near death's door.

George was in the kitchen by John Keen's
side when they passed through the tiny front
parlour and went upstairs, and peeping through
a chink in the door he saw them. He was
more than half-inclined to run away, but he
bethought himself, and resolved to be seen in
the act of doing something helpful. So he still
shamefacedly sat by the side of John Keen, and
was there when his father and Cheston entered.
Whilst the two stood looking at the patient and
talking in quiet tones about him, the doctor
came, and pronounced the case serious.

8 Get the best men in England to see him,
Holmes,' said the Baronet. ' I'd rather spend
my last penny than lose him. He saved us all.'

The doctor did what was to be done for the
time being, and then mounted the stairs to attend

the women. Mrs. Bowker was haranguing
in shrill reproof of their desire to go away.

c Why, it's six mile if it's a foot,' cried Mrs.
Bowker, ' an' it 'ud just be mere murdering'
madness to think on it. You lie down o' this
bed, an' their's room for two i' th' other
room, an' have a nice long sleep, an a good
meal when you're rested. An' here's the doctor,
an' I'll bet a pound he says as I say.'

I certainly say as you say, Mrs. Bowers
observed the doctor, glancing round. ' Ladies,
I forbid you to attempt even so short a journey
without rest. A little composing draught for
each of you — a little sleep — and I trust to
avoid all evil consequences.'

Mr. Bowker at this moment was busily
transferring a bed from a neighbour's house,
with the neighbour's readily given help, and
this was set up in the parlour, and John Keen
with infinite tenderness comfortably undressed
and settled in it. The women obey T ed the doctor's
orders. Cheston, unwilling to leave them,
took a great draught of wine, and cast himself
upon the kitchen sofa and fell asleep there. Joe
p 2

threw himself upon the rough rug before the fire,
with a rolled-up coat for a pillow, and lay wakeful
for a long while with his heart full of gratitude
and tenderness and resolve. But in a while he
also fell asleep, and being utterly worn out by
four nights and days of mental agony and bodily
labour, he lay like a log, and no dreams visited
him. The tenant of the cottage, with his wife
and their recovered son, betook themselves to
the brew house, and having made a roaring fire
there, lay down upon the floor and slept also.

Nine worn-out people slumbered in the
house and one kept watch, until under the
soothing influence of the opiate the doctor had
administered, John Keen's sleep became as
profound as that of the rest ; and young
George walked on tiptoe out of the house, and
lit his pipe, and rambled across the field, by
this time deserted. Where ten thousand cheering,
weeping, half-mad men and women had
stood two hours ago, not a creature was to be
seen. He had peeped round the side of the
house to be sure that the coast was clear, and
being satisfied of it, he walked on with bent

head and looked at his prospects with a failing
heart. Lifting his eyes he saw the house of his
old employer some quarter of a mile away, and
this bringing George Bushell the elder into his
mind, he cursed him with great ardour, and
roamed on again.

The old villain ! ' so thought and said the
young one. ' He knew who I was all the time,
and kept me out of my money, and sent me to

prison like a felon, and Curse him ! It's

too much for a man to bear to think of.' He
stopped to kick a clod of earth savagely, and
then roamed on again. Having once got old
George in his mind, it was not easy to let him
out, and having him there, it was not in human
nature, so he said, to hold back from cursing
him. The mine offices were empty, and he
entered one of them and sat down moodily,
tracing out, as he had done a thousand times
already, old George's villanies. * The infernal
old hypocrite ! ' cried the young man aloud.
He had naturally a great loathing of the old
man's crimes, and felt as righteous an anger at
them as any morally spotless man could fee 1 ,

and his anger being of the sort which demands
to be flogged, he rose up from the seat he had
taken, and travelling rapidly up and down the
room, he gave such comminatory eloquence ashe
had full swing until he was in the mind to
have taken the wicked old George by the
throat, with full intent to choke the rascally
old life out of him.

Turning suddenly in his vengeful promenade
and muttering to himself, he actually thought
for one second that he beheld an apparition ;
for there in the doorway stood old George,
leaning on a couple of walking-sticks, and
peering with a purblind look into the room.
The old man's house overlooked the scene of
action. He had heard the news of the rescue,
had watched the crowd disperse, and seeing the
carriage driven away again, supposed everybody
gone.

'Who's there?' he quavered, peering into
the half gloom of the place with purblind look.
I can't see nothing' close at hand, without
glasses,' he murmured, and having transferred
his right hand stick to his left hand, he began

to fumble at the pocket of his overcoat, and
after a time found his glasses, and with shaky
fingers set them astride his nose, the two 
rattling in his left hand as he did it.
It was amazing how much less righteously
indignant the younger rascal felt, finding himself
thus unexpectedly in presence of the old
one. But he glared at old George, and old
George, able to make him out now, glared at
him, with each of his hands quavering on
his unsteady walking-sticks, and his jaw quite
fallen.

Why ? ' said old George at last. < Why—
why— What's this ? Eh ? '

His tone was that of a man awestruck.
Young George took heart at it.

4 1 met my father and returned to England,'
said he, not lying in words but only in intent —
a thing that soothed his conscience greatly —
1 and I know now how to value your Christian
kindness, sir.'

The emphasis on ' Christian ' was a memory
of Miss Bateman's ' Leah.'

1 I'd ha' acted well by you if you'd ha' deserved

it,' said the old man, in a loud quavering
voice. ' But you was a bad lot.'

I think,' said young George, ' that you
have very little right to reproach me, sir. And
let me tell you, that if it had not been for my

influence But I need waste no words

about that. Let me pass, sir. We two can
have little to say to each other.'

'I'd ha' acted well by you,' old George
repeated, ' if you'd ha' deserved it.'

Do you suppose,' asked the martyred
young George disdainfully — ' were you ever
able to pretend to yourself that you supposed I
meant to steal that three hundred pounds ? '

Meant to steal it ? Why, you stole it.'

I never stole a marriage certificate,' returned
the younger. ' I never '

What ! ' cried the old man trembling from
head to foot. ' You speak them words again, an'
111 mek you prove 'em. You viper. What was
you ever born for but to bring trouble ? I give
my never Joseph a hunted pounds to run away
from home wi', an' he comes back an' robs me
underhanded, an' leaves me to find out as he's

back again, by accident. If it hadn't ha' been
for me you'd ha' been a-lyin' in jail this minute.
You stinging' viper ! You come an' talk to me !
I'll settle you. You ever speak a word to me
again, you jail-bird, you, an' I'll break every
bone i' your skin. I've a mind to do it now.'

And old George did indeed stagger at the
martyr with such a paralytic rage that George
the younger incontinently got out of the building
and replied from without.

I don't want to hurt you,' he said,
and you had better keep your distance, Mr.
Bushell.'

6 Let me get at you,' quavered old George,
an' I'll be the death on you.'

The thing would be more likely to go the
other way,' young George replied, retreating.
But I'm not going to fight with a man who
has both feet in the grave.'

Yah, you coward ! ' snarled old George.
Stand still, you dog, an' I'll flog your life out.'

'Lay a hand on me,' shouted young
George, retreating still, ' and you'll be sorry
for it.'

You've got a bold tongue enough,' said the
other, pausing and panting and shaking one of
his paralytic sticks, ' but you tek uncommon
good care to be out o' reach.'

I'm not going to allow myself to be struck
by a man on whom I can't retaliate without
dishonour,' said young George, pausing likewise.


This statement so affected the old man that
he stood shaking both his sticks in the air in a
rage altogether impotent, and ground imprecations
between his teeth.

They call you a respectable man still,'
cried young George, warming with the recollection
of his wrongs, ' and I am a felon. But
what right have you to speak a word of reproach
to me ? You ! Why I never heard of such a
villain.'

How much further young George's candour
and indignation might have carried him cannot
be known, for his hearer began to stagger and
to grope feebly in the air, and to see again
before him that awful mist with the splashes of
red and black in it. He was surely going tor



die this time. The hand of Heaven's vengeance
was again upon him, and he had but a second
left in which to make confession.

Yes, yes,' he cried trembling and quavering.
' I've been a villain. I've gone again'
the laws o' God an' man. But I've straightened
everything an' I didn't fight the case as I
might ha' done, an' ha' cost my never Joseph
a mint o' money, an' perhaps ha' won it after all.'

Was Heaven appeased, he wondered, by this
confession. The awful mist began to clear
away, and he could see again.

I'm a old man,' he muttered, ' an' I ain't
long for this world. Not long. An' I'll mek
up for what I done as was wrong. I'll mek
up for it, if I ain't drove too hard.'

Young George was silent, being more thana
little frightened by the old man's looks, and
the sudden change in him.

'Don't you be too hard o' me,' said old
George tremulously. ' I don't know how I'm
a-going' to get hum,' and he began to whimper.
'You help me hum, Mr. Banks, an' I'll mek
up for every thin'. I'll mek up for it, if I ain't

drove too hard. You help me hum, Mr.
Banks.'

Young George, still a little in dread of the
old man's sticks, and keenly watchful lest all
this should be a ruse, approached him gingerly
and took him by the arm. The poor old rascal
was shaking like a leaf, and clutched weakly at
his late private secretary. Considering the
circumstances, the position was a curious one.
The youngster, resolving to leave him at the end
of the lane, and so to run no risk of being seen
in this anomalous position, helped him on,
and the other turned slowly over in that
clouded and stiff-jointed mind of his the conviction
that it was useless and dangerous to try
to evade the powers of Heaven any longer.
And being altogether crushed and broken by
the assaults of accusing conscience, and filled
with superstitious fears of what might happen
unless he made some sort of atonement,
he hit upon a plan, and groaned over it, so
terrible did it seem, and yet resolved upon it.
Some dim mingling of texts about doing good
to them that despitefully use you, and denying

your own-wishes — crucifying the desires — that
was it — helped to the formation of this remarkable
and dreadful resolution. The Bushell
Hospital and Institution must go by the board,
and he would divide his money equally — all
that was left of it — between the man he had
injured and the man who had robbed him, between
Joe Bushell and this rascal of a late private
secretary. It was a dreadful thing to
think of, and the mere notion of it tugged at
his very heartstrings, but surely, surely, it was
all the more likely to be accepted on that
account.

Can you get along alone now, sir ? ' asked
George the younger at the bottom of the lane.

'I think lean,' said George the elder, leaning
on both his sticks again. ' Don't you be
too hard o' me, Mr. Banks, an' I'll mek up to
you for all the harm I tried to do you.'

With that he tottered away, leaving his late
employe smitten with bewilderment.

CHAPTEE XXXIV.

The day waned, a dreary wind blew up the
clouds from the leaden horizon, the clouds
discharged themselves in a miserable drizzling
fall, but the sleepers in Bowker's house lay
still and slept, with breathing light or heavy.
Just as night was falling, Ethel's dreams carried
her into the mine once more, and after long
ages of waiting there she heard a scraping and
rasping at the wall, and with a great shock
of hope became suddenly awake. The noise
resolved itself into the stirring of a fire below,
and as she listened she could hear another
sound which she was not slow to interpret —
the sound, namely, of John Keen's voice in
rapid undertone speech. She arranged her
hair and dress, and unwilling to disturb Dinah,
who still slumbered, she opened the door with
extreme quiet, and descended the steps which

led directly into the kitchen. Silently as she
went, the one wakeful inmate of the kitchen
heard her, and looked up. She saw r his face
in the firelight, and paused for a moment on
the stairs, but recovering her self-possession,
held on her way, and without a word, or a
sign that she noticed George's presence, she
passed him, and opening the door, looked out
upon the wildly driving clouds and the bleak,
darkened country.

Perhaps it was a part of what little good
there was in him that young George, when he
thought of Ethel, felt at his wickedest and
least worthy. The thought of nobody else
had such power to reproach him. And now,
in spite of the sense of injury he had been
nursing for the past two or three hours until
the glowing coals had blazed with clear resentment,
her presence suddenly put out the
fire of wrath, and left him with a sick coldness
at the heart. Ethel stood outside in the open
door, raged at by sudden gusts of wind and
beaten by storms of rain, but not heeding them
or knowing of them. It could scarcely fail to

strike young George that he was in the way.
It did so strike him, and he seized his hat and
made for the road, but Ethel standing in the
middle of the doorway, he found it necessary
to speak to her.

Miss Donne,' said young George shakily,
and she turned. ' I can only be a trouble to
you if I stay. I have been watching poor
Keen, but I shall not be wanted any longer
now.'

She made room for him to pass, and as
she did so he read rightly the shrinking of
her figure to avoid the merest touch of contact
of her garments with his. She had loved him,
as he knew, most dearly, and now she loathed
him so. That was his hideous ill-fortune —
not his own fault at all? something seemed
to ask within. His fault ! he could but answer

Had he not been a villain all along ? Had

he ever been worthy to touch her, to be near
her, to look at her ? Was it any wonder that
she hated him ? He was hot, and cold, and
sick, and dizzy all at once, as he thought of
the scene in the magistrate's office. But for

that, he would not have seemed to himself
quite so much of a hound as now. He had
nowhere to go to, and no money, and he was
ashamed to show himself in the town, and
certain that no one there would trust him for
the value of one penny-piece after what had
happened. So he wandered up and down outside
the house in the rain, waiting till the rest
should awake and go away, when he might
make an appeal to his father and draw some
small supplies. He had no hope of generosity
in that quarter, and the future looked hard to
him. He wove old George's promise into the
tissue of his thoughts, and it helped him to the
design of some curious patterns, but under existing
circumstances the contemplation of the
texture, howsoever its shifting patterns varied,
gave him little comfort.

Meanwhile, Ethel lit a candle, and shading
it carefully from the sick man's face, sat down
to watch. John was murmuring, though he
still slept, and again and again she heard her
own name. Sometimes he spoke of her, and
sometimes to her, but there was nothing else

VOL. III. Q

in all his thoughts than her and her safety.
He was still in the mine waiting for rescue,
and once he opened his eyes, struggled into
a half upright posture, and, unconscious of
the hands that controlled her, called loudly for
her.

'She's dead! ' he cried. ' You're hiding it
from me. She's dead.'

6 No, no,' said Ethel, trying to soothe him.
Don't you know me, Mr. Keen ? '

He cried out again that she was dead, but
by-and-by, being altogether weak and helpless,
he permitted her to set him down and arrange
his clothes and pillows, and after some few
more cries and murmuring, which were all for
her, he fell asleep. She sat watching him ; his
pale face, heavy eyelids, and tumbled curls of
long hair looking ghostly in the shadow where
he lay, and her whole heart was filled with a
pitying admiration. Such a gallant, ready
fellow he had been. So unobtrusively devoted,
plotting in that quiet Wrethedale life to make
her happy, and never permitting himself to be
seen in it ; loving her so all the time, and never

saying a word of it lest lie should hurt her.
To think of these things was to travel anew
upon the beginning of a road you thought the
road of folly, Ethel, and had vowed never
again to set foot in. Ah ! who knows of these
things, or how they come ? A longing to set
foot in that road again ? Scarcely as yet. But
such a pity in her heart, and such a faith in
the real manly honesty and truth of this poor
wounded youngster as by-and-by may grow to
that. And you shall not think my favourite
maid maidenly, or sudden in having even
made so small a step backwards towards love's
demesne of glamour. To have waited four
days and nights in face of death beside this
true man who dearly loved her, and to have
him chiefly to think of all the while, and him
to nurse and soothe, and to hear him ever and
always in his greatest pain and his most awful
dreams calling on her name, to admire his
courage and resource and hear them praised
by all around, and to pity him with all her
heart, was an education likely to move her
swiftly if she moved at all.

She had sat for a long time watching and
thinking, when a movement in the upper room
and on the stairs attracted her attention, and
Dinah appeared.

Where is he ? ' whispered Dinah, blushing
and trembling like a girl.

I don't know,' answered Ethel in the same
cautious tone, ' but there is someone in the
next room. Listen. You can hear breathing.'

They listened, and heard the steady coming
and going of a deep breath. Dinah crept to
the door, and noiselessly opening it, looked in.
The little parlour faced westward, and through
the curtained windows she could see a great
jagged line of pale yellow where the sun had
gone down and the clouds were slowly severing,
and in this faint and uncertain light, this line of
pale yellow reflected into the room, she could
just distinguish Joe's figure from that of
Cheston. She knelt down by his side, and
looked at him with hungry heart and eyes, and
yearned to throw herself upon his bosom and
clasp him in her arms. She knew the story of
his wanderings now, as well as Ethel and Sir

Sydney knew it. She knew old George's
wicked tale of her second marriage, and somehow
to Dinah's mind the two first years during
which errant Joe had been silent were as
nothing. She stooped and kissed his hand
and let a tear fall upon it, but the sleeper
never stirred. For those in danger there had
been some little rest, for people do sleep in the
face of death, and sleep calmly with blissful
innocent dreams at times, but for him, since
the first news came until a few hours ago,
there had been no possibility of slumber. Seeing
how wrapped in sleep he was, Dinah took
courage and kissed his hand again, and since
yielding to the impulse made it stronger, she
slid her arm beneath his head and kissed his
cheek very softly, and nestled down beside him,
watching him until in the fast-gathering darkness
his face was lost and she could only
fancy it.

But after half-an-hour she rose and stole
silently back to Ethel.

4 Is there any news of him, my dear ? Forgive
me asking. Have you heard of him ? '

Yes,' said Ethel, whispering. c He was
here an hour or two ago. He went out when
I came down.'

The mother's right was indisputable. Dinah
could not be blamed for loving the child of
her own body, but Ethel had yet to take herself
to task for a half-inclination to think the
love unreasonable. The very thought of young
George grated on every nerve in her soul, and
yet she knew, though with fear and self-reproach,
that she was beginning to be happy
again. The why and wherefore of this new
contentment she either did not know or would
not for a second acknowledge to herself.

Dinah passed like a ghost to the rearward
door and looked out into the night. In a little
while she heard a footstep, and as it came nearer
she fluttered out into the darkness to meet it.

Is that you, George ? ' she asked.

Yes,' he answered.

6 Oh, George,' she cried, * what are you out
here for ? '

I couldn't stop in the house,' he answered
doggedly. To remind everybody '

He broke off abruptly and was silent.

You're wet through,' said Dinah, laying
her hands upon him. ' Don't wait here, my
dear. Go somewhere and get a change of
clothes, and '

4 1 can't get anything,' George answered
bitterly. I haven't got a penny in the world,
and who would trust me ? '

Oh, George,' said Dinah, ' I've plenty of
money now. Mr. Keen sent me some money the
day before we went down the pit, and I've got
it with me. Here. Go to the hotel we stayed
at in Birmingham, an' have a glass of something'
warm afore you start. An' let us know
where you are, an' George, George ! do try
to be a good lad now. Won't you, my darling'
won't you ? an' with God's blessing' we'll be
happy after all. Try to be a good lad again.
Do, dear, do.'

She was embracing him again with tears,
heedless of his rain-soaked garments.

I'll try,' said the wretched George, weeping
also. ; I don't deserve your goodness.
The best thing I could do for everybody would

be to make a hole in the water somewhere and
rid the world of such a burden.'

There was even in the young man's mind
a remote idea in favour of carrying this programme
into execution, though there was
probably little hope of the remote idea coming
nearer. But it terrified Dinah.

No, no, George,' she broke out, clinging
to him.

4 I'm a disgrace to everybody,' said George
weeping. ' I'm in everybody's way.'

No, George, no,' cried Dinah, and she clung
to him still, and extorted from him solemn
promises that he would live and be good ; and
at last, with an aching heart, she let him go, and
watched his figure as it melted from her sight
in the darkness.

She waited in the night a little while after
this to compose herself, and then returned.
Ethel was still keeping watch by John Keen,
and all the sleepers in the little house were
sound. The two women found themselves
food and made tea, moving noiselessly. It was
midnight when Cheston awoke with a great

yawn, and stumbled sleepily in to speak to
them, but Joe still slept on, and Dinah, going
to look at him, had terrible tremors about his
never waking any more, until his regular heavy
breathing reassured her. At one in the morning
the Bowker family appeared, Mr. Bowker
coming first in search for lucifer matches, the
brew house fire having long since gone out.

Let him sleep, mister,' said William.
He's never closed a eye till this afternoon
sence we heard the news, an' that's modern four
nights and days ago.'

Having gone away to light the fire, he
returned, and at Sir Sydney's invitation, sat
down. They talked in low voices in consideration
of the patient, who was by this time sound
asleep again, and there was little mystery in
the story left before they had done with it.
William had been told of uncle George's gift of
a hundred pounds to Joe, and the narration of
it softened all hearts to the hard old man. He
could not have begun to plot evil then, they
thought, and could only have yielded to a
sudden temptation. Mrs. Bowker made more

tea, and bringing it into the kitchen with her
own hands, pressed it upon them ; and in the
growing twilight they sat sipping together until
a sound arose in the next room as of stretching;
and yawning, and a minute later Joe was
amongst them. It was curious, and to everybody
there a little touching, to notice the
extreme diffidence with which the long-divided
pair met each other. But by common consent
room was made for Joe to sit next to Dinah,
and by-and-by, as the others sat and talked, it
was noticed that the silent two had stolen each
a hand towards the other's, and thus in the
chill growing twilight and the flickering light
of the fire, they sat handed, looking at each
other now and then, but quite wordless. It
was broad daylight, though chill and dark even
then, so lowering was the weather, when Miss
Dorothea descended, and one of the younger
branches of the house of Bowker being despatched
for the Baronet's carriage, returned
with it in the space of half-anchor in triumph
side by side with the coachman.

6 I can get a cab and follow you afterwards,'

said Ethel, 'but until the doctor arrives I shall
stay with Mr. Keen.'

Nobody ventured to offer any remonstrance
except Cheston, who murmured something
about being in Mr. Bowker's way.

4 Not a bit of it, mister,' cried William . ' It
mes the hearth brighter like to see her their.
A' my missis,' added Mr. Bowker, turning
upon her, ' is as willing' as willing', but her's
never been used to nursing' sick gentlefolks, an'
it'll be as well to ha' one of his own sort along
of him till the doctor's seen him again an' given
me orders about him.'

So they drove away in such uplifted silent
thanksgiving of heart as no words of mine
can tell, and Ethel w T as left behind with her
wounded lover, whom she had not yet learned
to love. Young Bowker called his mother and
father from the room.

Leave 'em to 'emsens,' he said. 'Whether
he'll live or die their's no saying', but all the
while as we was down nothing' 'ud satisfy him
but he must have her setting' next to him, an' he
ho'din' her hand an' talking' to her.'

Does her care for him ? ' asked Mrs. Bowker.

1 1 do' know,' her son answered ; ' but he
cares for her. An' all the time he's been in
the fever he's been a-callin' out, " Ethel, my
love," and " Ethel, my darling," and savin', " I'm
glad to die for you." Wasn't it her as was
engaged to young Banks ? '

Yis, yis,' said his father. c But young
Keen's worth a hunted million on him, an'
perhaps her's a-findin' that out. Leave 'em to
'sens.'

Ethel, unconscious of the interest she excited,
sat on still until the doctor came. No
improvement yet. Had the patient been anyhow
excited ? No, they told him ; he had
even slept nearly the whole of the time since
yesterday's visit.

4 1 am sorry to tell you,' said the doctor to
Miss Donne, ' that I don't like the look of
things at all. I shall act on Sir Sydney's
instructions and call in a first-rate man from
Birmingham.'

1 Do all you can,' Ethel implored him.
He saved all our lives.'

What can be done shall be done answered
the doctor ; and with that he went away.

'He saved our lives,' said Ethel to Mrs.
Bowker. 'Will you let me stay here till we
hear the news — till the other doctor comes ? '

Stay ? ' said that good woman, ' an welcome
! '

So Ethel stayed, and the great local man
arriving, gave a more decided and more favourable
opinion than his country colleague. With
care and attention the patient would probably
recover. But the case was grave. The great
man having delivered his verdict, went away
again, promising to return on the morrow, and
still Ethel waited. The lesser light of science,
a sound reliable man of the old school, called
twice or thrice during the day and found her
always at her post. She sent a special messenger
to Dinah explaining her purposes, and
Dinah reading between the lines could not fail
to think of George and the happiness and
honour he had sacrificed. In brief, Ethel
stayed beneath Mr. Bowker's roof one week,
and Sir Sydney made calls upon her twice with

Joe, and twice with Dinah. Before that time
had expired John had recovered consciousness,
and was believed to be fairly out of danger.

On the last night of Ethel's stay an interview
occurred between John and her which
probably accelerated her departure. The
Bowker family were bivouacked in the parlour,
feeling singularly abroad and un-at-home there,
and Ethel and John were alone in the kitchen.
The invalid lay in his improvised bed, propped
up with pillows, his redundant curls all shorn,
his eyes remarkably hollow, and his cheeks
remarkably thin and pale. Ethel was preparing
beef-tea for him, and his eyes, looking supernaturally
large, followed her about the place
with a pleased languor. When at last she
brought it to him, he looked the hand that
held the cup, and showed no disposition to
relinquish it. A very little violence would
have released the hand, but who could be
violent with an invalid, especially with an
invalid whose valour and foresight had just
saved so many lives.

You are very kind to me,' John murmured,

holding the hand and the cup together in such
a way that it was difficult to let the cup go
without spilling its contents.

I We have reason to be grateful to you,
Mr. Keen,' said Ethel. ' All of us. We owe
you our lives.'

I I owe you mine in turn,' said John, holding
the hand a little tighter. ' I knew you
were about me all the while. Even when I
was delirious I seemed to know it. I should
have died without you. You don't mind my
loving you ? ' demanded the unconventional
young man.

Now, what possible answer could a young
woman make to a question of that sort ?

I couldn't help it,' John continued. ' I
loved you before I had known you a week. I
wonder any fellow who ever saw you cares to
look at another woman.'

You are weak, Mr. Keen,' said Ethel,
striving gently to release her hand. 'You
must not excite yourself by talking.'

She moved her disengaged hand to the
tea-cup to steady it in the struggle, and the

insolent invalid absolutely took that also, and
being really near a physical collapse, closed his
eyes and dropped his head, but held on to the
hands.

'Let me give you your beef-tea,' said
Ethel.

If you won't go away afterwards said
John.

I will stay,' Ethel answered, and he released
her, and for a while lay like one comatose,
to her great dismay. But in a little time he
rallied, and submitted to be fed with a spoon,
and was extremely orderly and quiet until
Ethel made a movement as if to rise.

No,' said John feebly, and with one of the
thin hands that lay outside the counterpane he
caught one of hers, and taking it to his lips he
mumbled it there feebly. ' Let me cheat
myself for a day or so till I get stronger,' he
said. ' Don't think ill of me. I'm very weak
at present. I shall know better by-and-by.'

And he fell to kissing the hand so passionately
that Ethel withdrew it straightway in fear
for him, and half by virginal instinct.

Forgive inc,' said John humbly, and she
pitied him so that she gave him the hand back
again, and he closed both his upon it, and lay
quite still in a sort of prostrated rapture.

I shall be sorry to get well again,' quoth
John after a pause.

1 Why, Mr. Keen ? ' asked Ethel.

1 shall leave this fool's paradise when I'm
better,' said John with a tear born of weakness
in each eye. ' I'd rather die like this than live
to part from you.'

She said nothing but turned and looked at
him with a mournful pitying tenderness. He
looked back at her straight into her eyes.

4 1 love you,' he said in a half whisper, his
lips scarcely moving. 4 1 love you. I do love
you ! '

And Ethel never knew how it happened,
but his eyes seemed in some strange way to
draw her to him, and she stooped slowly over
him and kissed him on the lips. John threw
an arm about her neck and kissed her back
again, with a vigour surprising in a man who
had so lately had so many bones broken. She

VOL. III. R

struggled gently to be free of him, being half-afraid
of him and wholly afraid of herself ; but

■ Let me die like this,' said John, and lying
back again fell into a placid sleep.

When she was assured that he really was
asleep) the girl kissed him again. And it is remarkable
that she was not yet sure she loved
him. Only he was so handsome and so brave
and good, and he had suffered so much, and she
had such a pity for him and such an admiration.

But when in the course of two or three
hours the invalid awoke, and of his own initiative
desired beef-tea, he was absolutely beyond control,
and insisted on kissing her fingers every
time they approached his lips. And at last this
shy young man's insolence reached to such a
pitch, encouraged doubtless by her non-resistance,
that he said :

'Ethel, kiss me.' And so overcome was
Miss Donne by this command that she obeyed
him. ' You won't send me away when I get
better, will you ? ' asked John. ' You'll get to
like me a bit, won't you ? You'll let me go on
loving you ? '

4 Yes,' she whispered.

And in this unexampled fashion was a
modest, reticent, good girl, within little more
than the space of two years, brought to be in
love with two men, and to confess it to them
both. She was angry at herself; she thought
it maidenly ; she called herself shallow-hearted,
and even shed some secret tears over
the phantom of that lost rascal George, who
did still at times revisit the glimpse of the
moon.

1 You are getting stronger now, Mr. Keen
said Miss Donne, ' and I shall come and see you
sometimes, but 1 must go back to Dinah in the
morning.'

8 No,' said John.

Yes, Mr. Keen,' said Ethel. ' I must go.'
Call me John said the young man who
had always until now been so shy and reticent.
Ethel obeyed him, in a whisper. Then having
secured that point, John besought her to stay
a little longer, but in that respect she was adamant.
But she promised to see him every day,
and they took tender farewell of each other ;

R 2

Ethel still distrustful and uncertain of herself,
and full of maidenly shame at being so cheaply
captured. She had vowed never to care for
any man again, and yet he had suffered so, and
was so good, and loved her so dearly. She did
not quite love him yet, but only took pity on
him, and John seemed tolerably contented with
it. The doctors fairly stared at him next day,
he made so much advance.

The youngest Bowker had been sent for a
cab, and Ethel had gone away before either of
the doctors came. She went straight, of course,
to Cheston's house, and the Baronet came out
to receive her as the cab drove up the avenue.

And how is the patient ? ' he asked.

'Better,' returned Ethel, 'much better.
How is Mrs. Bushell, Sir Sydney? '

A shade came across the genial Baronet's
face.

Miss Donne,' he answered, ' I don't know
what to make of things in that quarter at all.
You had better see her yourself.'

'What is the matter?' cried Ethel in
alarm.

Lunacy's the matter, according to the best
of my belief,' said Cheston testily, though he
laughed a second later. ' Go and see her.'

Ethel ran upstairs to Dinah's room, and
found her sitting there alone, looking pale and
dejected.

6 Where is your husband, Dinah ? ' asked
the girl when the first greetings were over.

He's staying at the hotel in Birmingham,'
said Dinah with tremulous lips. 'He's very
kind and good, my dear, and he writes me
beautiful letters, and he's been here twice to seeme,

but ' Dinah suppressed with effort an

inclination to cry, and Ethel said indignantly,

Dinah, he ought to be ashamed of himself.
Give up thinking about him, my dear.'

No, no,' said Dinah. ' You don't understand.'


6 1 don't indeed,' responded Ethel.

CHAPTER XXXV.

My dear Wife.'

Thus far Joseph Bushell, with a sheet of
letter-paper otherwise blank before him. Joe
sat in his own room in the Birmingham hotel
and bit disconsolately at the feather of his pen.
A letter of Dinah's lay before him, and whenever
he took it up and looked at it, as he did
often, a swelling arose in his throat, and he
found it necessary to get up and pace about the
room a little to recover himself. The gist of
Dinah's letter was simply this. Let the past
bury its dead. I am your faithful and loving
wife now just as much as when you went away.
Don't desert me again, or you will break my
heart. The letter said these things over andover
again, but it contrived to say little more.

She must know something more of me,'
said Joe, pacing up and down the room, ' before

I can ask her to accept me again as her life
companion. She ought to be sure of me. And
I feel,' he murmured to the walls, ' I feel as if
we ought to be married again, as if a return to
her were somehow an attack upon her purity.
We ought to be married again. It isn't bigamy
I suppose,' said Joe with a wretched little grin,
c to be married twice to one's own wife. I suppose
it's legal. Cheston says young Keen is
getting strong again. I'll go and ask young
Keen's advice.'

So he shoved all his papers, loose and
crumpled, into a writing-desk, locked them up,
took his hat, and set out upon his journey.
The day was bright and cheerful after recent
rains, and a spring-like feeling was in the air.
Nobody is entirely insensible to such influences,
and they were strong on Joe Bushell as he
walked sturdily on again in the month of spring.
Spring came again and seemed to bring some
promise of a new spring of life for Dinah and
for him. In spite of all the self-accusations he
had written to her, in spite of the self-accusing
things he had said to her, Dinah would and

could see nothing in Joe's prolonged absence
but the result of Uncle George's wickedness.

If you'd ha' been fortunate, Joe,' she had
said to him, ' and had made enough to keep
me afore he wrote that wicked letter, wouldn't
you ha' sent for me, or come back to me ? '

And he had been compelled to answer
Yes,' though he strove to inculpate himself by
showing that he had acted like a fool and like
a coward, to all of which Dinah lent an unbelieving
ear. And the more Joe accused himself,
the more eager Dinah was to believe the
best of him ; and the worst things he said of
himself, the better man she thought him. For
he could but tell her that, wickedly and basely
as he had acted, he had been true to her in
heart and life, and that was enough for Dinah.
A hard and cruel fate, with old George as the
controller of it, had come between them ; that
was all, and she had no blame for Joe. Not
even now, when his scruples were again dividing
them, and when she would have taken him back
with her whole heart and soul, could she blame
him. Fate was hard and always had been hard,

but Joe was not to blame. ' Commend me to
my kind lord,' said Desdemona with her dying
breath ; and if Joe Bushell had turned Othello -
wish in act and fancy, Dinah would probably
have had no harsher farewell for him. This is
in the nature of women sometimes, and if it
leads to misery it breeds happiness as well,
such happiness perhaps as a heart otherwise put
together can never know, or do more than
dream of.

As Joe walked on his spirits rose higher and
higher. He had no fear of his own faith for
the future. Whatever happened he would be
true to Dinah, and would guard her so gently
that the end of her life should be sweet to her.
Only, a little pause, for the sake of the delicacy
of his own thoughts about her, seemed necessary
; a new courtship — they had been so long
apart — a new ceremonial of some sort to bring
them together again, to renew a tie so strained
and weakened by the lapse of time that it felt
to him a thing broken and faded almost into
nothing.

The road he took led him for some four

and a half miles over the ground he had
travelled when he walked to catch the London
train at almost the beginning of this story, and
the way was changed, as he was. There were
new landmarks on the road, as there were new
landmarks in his history, and many of the old
ones were clean gone, as in his history likewise.
And since he walked now, not in the old direction,
but retracing those youthful steps, this
special present journey seemed to have a special
promise in it, as if it were only now that he
was really coming back again to love and duty.

It is not at all an unusual thing for two or
even three people to come to a resolution on
the same day, and almost at the very moment
when Joe resolved upon a visit to John Keen,
old George Bushell set out upon a visit to the
convalescent lawyer. And the history of old
George's visit was briefly this : The hand of
Heaven in judgment had seemed to his wicked
superstitions old soul to weigh so heavily upon
him, and the way of disarming its vengeance
seemed so clear, that within a day or two of his

interview with his whilom private secretary, he
had sent a note to Mr. Packmore, requesting
that gentleman's presence at a settled hour. At
the settled hour Mr. Packmore came, and
learned that he had been sent for to alter
George's will, and learning, further, in what direction
the alteration was proposed, was greatly
disturbed, and became so doubtful of old
George's sanity that he refused, after a lengthy
squabble, to have anything to do with the
matter.

1 My money's mine, ain't it ? ' asked old
George of his stubborn counsellor.

And my reputation is mine, sir,' returned
Mr. Packmore stiffly. ' And my professional
probity is mine, sir. And I will have nothing
to do with a scheme which seems to me, sir, to
be no less than crackbrained.'

I didn't send for you o' purpose to be
insulted, Packmore,' said old George, with a
dignity more wooden even than of old. ' An'
I'll tell you what. You send me all the business
documents you got o' mine, an' send
your bill in, an' I'll send a cheque an' ha' done

wi' you. Talk to me about been' crack-brained
! ' lie quavered, getting on his legs and
shaking both his sticks at the conveyancer ;
6 I'm as sound i' my mind as ever I was, thank
God, an' / know what I'm a-cloin'. But I
don't want no unwilling' service, an' I don't want
no reflections on my intellect', then you An'
you can get out o' my house, an' send my
documents at your earliest convenience.'

Mr. Packmore at this had bowed with
exceeding stiffness and retired. And now old
George, after new cogitations, had bethought
him of John Keen, who knew the whole story
(which it was not easy to tell to Mr. Tack-more),
and who would know his reasons, and
would make his will in this amended fashion
without misgiving. He let the time slip by,
however, until falling into a state of querulous
rage with Mrs. Bullus one day, he felt a recurrence
of his old pains and terrors, and went
off headlong on his two sticks to seek the
lawyer.

Is Mr. Keen well enough to see a body ? '
he asked of Mrs. Bowker.

He's a-sittin'' up a-readm',' said that estimable
woman, who for reasons of her own had
no affection for old George, and answered him
somewhat scorn f idly.

Is he well enough to see a body ? ' demanded
George again.

4 I'll ask him,' returned Mrs. Bowker disappearing.
' You can come in,' she said ungraciously
when she returned; and old George,
entering, found himself face to face with the
lawyer, who was sitting up in bed in the parlour,
propped with pillows, and looking like a
rakish ghost in a smoking cap, which set so
much to the side of his head that it totally
obscured one ear. The smoking cap had fitted
him once upon a time, but now that his locks
were so closely shorn it was ridiculously too
big for him.

'Be you well enough to do a minute or
two's talk on important business, Mr. Keen ? '
asked old George.

1 Yes,' said John, ' I think so. Take a
seat.'

Mrs. Bowker slammed the door and went

out, repenting herself a moment later on account
of the invalid. Old George began to
unfold his purpose slowly.

'Mr. Keen,' he said, 'I'm come to you
because you know everything' appertaining' tome
an my lung-lost never, Joseph, an' my late
private secretary, snowed beforetime as George
Banks.'

Yes,' said John.

'It's been o' my mind,' said old George,
as I might ha' acted straighter than I did, an'
what I did as was wrong I want to mek up
for.'

Yes,' said John again.

I'm a-getting' main old now,' George renewed,
' an' I feel as if I wasn't lung for this
world. And I want to do right afore I leave it.'

I am very glad to hear you speak in this
way, Mr. Bushell,' said John, in whom his
recent illness and danger had left many grave
thoughts behind them. ' Your coming here,'
he added, seeing that old George paused
nervously, ' seems to indicate that I can be of
use to you. Can I ? '

'Yes,' returned old George. 'But gi' me
time ; gi' me time.' He sat for a moment or
two, with a hand on either stick quavering
there. ' I allays meant to be respectable ana
God-fearing' man. An' I given my never
Joseph a hunted pound to run away wi', an'
I've never been hard — not over an' above —
wi' the poor. An' what wrong-coin' I fell into,
Mr. Keen, I have been sore punished for, an
I want to mek things straight again, an' die
wi' a clean conscience.' There he paused again
and looked up at John with an uncertain
glance easily abashed. i I'm a-going he continued,
' to have a noo will made, I am, an' I'm
a-going' to leave everything' equal divided betwixt
my never Joseph an' my late private secretary,
snowed beforehand as George Banks.
Everything' equal divided betwixt them two.'

There was a something in old George's
manner which John construed rightly as conveying
an expectation that he would be surprised
at this and w r ould applaud it as a moral
action.

I had always heard,' said John, ' that it

was your intention to found an institute and
hospital. That was never made a secret.'

It never had been, and that fact made it
none the easier for old George to satisfy
affrighted conscience and angry Heaven.

Such was my intention, Mr. Keen,' said
he, ' but I'm now bended on another course,
so to speak. Will you carry out them their
instructions ? '

'Certainly, Mr. Bushell,' returned John.
Assuredly, if you wish it so. Do you attach
any conditions ? '

1 No,' said old George, ' no conditions.
Divided equal betwixt 'em,' with a heavy sigh ;
1 that's all. Folk's '11 talk, I count, but I've
got my peace to mek wi' Them Above, Mr.
Keen, an' I'm a-getting' main old, an' I ain't
been all I should ha' been, an' I'm a good
deal broke wi' trouble, an' I don't look to last
lung.'

I believe, Mr. Bushell,' said John, ' that
you are trying to do what seems to you to bea
duty, and I can understand how hard it is.
But you will have the sympathy of all who

understand your motives ; and as for those who
don't, what matter ? '

Ah,' said old George, ' what matter, indeed.
These things is betwixt a man an' his
conscience. I don't want to hurry you, for it's
plain to be seen as you're still sickly. But as
soon as you can, Mr. Keen, as soon as you can.'

Old George, when John really came to look
at him and in his own mind to contrast him
with what he had been, was wonderfully
changed and pitifully broken, insomuch that
the wrong-doer extracted a sharp twinge of
pity from the honest man.

4 It's the meanest proverb ever put in print,'
thought John to himself, ' but it's true for all
that — Honesty is the best policy.'

Old George did not seem to have anything
to add to the instructions he had already given,
but he sat with somewhat stertorous breathing,
and looked at the pattern of the gaudy carpet,
pushing one of his shaky sticks about it as if he
followed the design. He had not sat thus silent
for a minute when a tap came to the door.

I'm a-going' now, Mr. Keen,' said George,

vol. in. s

an' I can open your door for you. Good-bye.
You send word to me when you're ready, will
you ? '

John promised, and the old fellow crawled
forward leaning on his two sticks, and shufflingly
set both of them in one hand whilst he opened
the door. And there before him stood a
bearded man of middle age whom he did not
know. But the bearded man knew him, and
to his terror and amazement said very quietly :
6 My uncle George.'

Uncle George showing no sign of any inclination
to move, the new-comer passed him and
closed the door. Then, with his hands in his
jacket pockets, he turned and confronted uncle
George, and looked at him up and down.

Be you my never Joseph ? ' asked George
in his shaky voice. He knew it well enough
now, though he had not recognised him at
first.

Joe could not trust himself as yet to say a
word in the presence of this old traitor. There
were too many terrible thoughts revived by
the sight of him, and too great a spirit of

natural vengeance stirred to make speech seem
safe.

'I'm a- try in' to put every thin' straight again
as I set crooked, Joseph,' said George, his eyes
sinking before his nephew's gaze. ' I own I
acted bad towards you, but I've been punished
for it heavy. Heavy, Joseph. An' I'm a-crying'
wi' God's help to straighten things out a
bit.'

We're a very pretty family,' said Joe with
great bitterness, speaking to himself. ' I can
see that you're better, Keen,' he continued in a
changed voice, turning towards John, ' I had
something to say to you. I'll call again when
you are disengaged.'

I'm a-going' now,' quavered uncle George.
I've been a-crying' to straighten things, Joseph.
You ask lawyer Keen if I ain't been a-trying to
straighten things.'

Joe made no response to this, and Uncle
George began to fumble at the door again. He
shook so, and went about the simple business
in such a helpless fashion, that Joe turned the
handle for him.

Thank you, Joseph said the old fellow,
turning his fishy eyes upon him shifty. ' I
meant well by you at the beginning'. I give
you a hunted pound to run away wi', an' I
meant well by you at the beginning'. But I was
tempted sudden, Joseph, an' I've been a badman,
I'm afeard. But I'm a-trying to set things
straight again.'

Joe said nothing, and Uncle George with
much difficulty made off. His nephew closed
the door behind him.

Is that the first time you've seen him since
you left England ? ' asked John.

Joe nodded gravely, and drew up a chair to
the bedside.

When do you think you'll be about again,
Keen ? ' lie asked after a pause.

'Well,' said John, 'I want to get up now,
and feel quite equal to it, but the doctors won't
have it. I suppose they're right,' he added
with a sigh.

4 You know what we all owe you,' said Joe.

1 You know what we all owe you, 9 returned
John.

Keen,' said Joe suddenly, c I want to speak
to you upon a delicate matter. My wife and I
are absolutely reconciled.'

I am heartily glad of it,' answered John.
4 Heartily glad.'

But we are still divided by a — by a sentiment,
I suppose I must call it. We have been
so long apart. Is a second marriage a legal
possibility?'

c A possibility,' said John, ' yes. But not a
necessity.'

If a possibility,' answered Joe, ' certainly a
necessity.'

As satisfying the sentiment you spoke of? '

< Yes.'

If you feel the necessity, you might get a
clergyman to read the service through ; dispensing
with the purely legal formalities.'

Yes,' said Joe. ' They are not needed, of
course.'

4 Not at all.'

A knock at the inner door made an interruption
here, and Mrs. Bowker entered. Mrs.
Bowker was sorry to interrupt, but Mr. Keen

must have beef-tea and toast at this juncture,
punctually at midday.

'There's the clock striking,' said Mrs.
Bowker in great triumph, as indicating her own
precision of obedience to the doctor's orders.

Mr. Keen was of opinion that lie could
help himself with perfect ease, but Mrs. Bowker
would not hear of it, and insisted upon feeding
the patient with her own hands. So John
being comfortably tucked into a clean towel,
a little coarse in material but of snowy whiteness,
was fed with provoking slowness by his
hostess. Mrs. Bowker was of opinion that
the measures taken with the rescued were still
necessary, and so made great pauses between
each spoonful, and took eager observations of
the patient, as if in expectation of asphyxia
symptoms.

6 Let me drink it up,' said John. ' I want
to talk with Mr. Bushell.'

Health's o' more importance than any
amount o' talking', an' I'm sure Mr. Bushell
don't want to see you a-gorgin' yourself to talk
to him, 9 said Mrs. Bowker.

Joe laughed and said, ' Certainly not,' and
the slow process went on. When in the course
of a half-hour it was finished, Mr. Keen's hands
and face must be sponged with luke-warm
water, and his beard combed and brushed to
make him presentable to the doctor.

4 An' somebody else as we known' on — eh,
Mr. Keen ? ' said the hostess knowingly.

At this sally John blushed and laughed,
and the sound of wheels being heard at that
moment, Mrs. Bowker laughed triumphantly,
whisked to the door and opened it, and a
minute later admitted Ethel. The girl came
in beaming, but stopped short at the sight of
Joe, and gave him a frozen little nod.

'I'll call again, Keen,' said Joe, shaking
hands with the patient. ' I'll look in again
this afternoon.'

'Do,' said John heartily, but perhaps not
sorry to be alone with Ethel. ' I shall be glad
to see you.'

Joe bowed to Ethel (who responded by
another frozen little nod), and went his way.

4 My darling ! ' cried John — they had got

so far by this time — ' you do him less than
justice.'

1 Why,' cried Ethel, with a flush of warm
indignation, ' does the worthless fellow stand
shilly-shallying here when the best woman in
the world is waiting and breaking her heart
for him, and he knows it ? '

John admired her all the more, if that were
possible, for this outbreak, but he said only :

Shall I tell you why?'

1 If there is a reason,' said Ethel a little
disdainful still, c I should like to hear it.'

'There is a reason,' answered John. ' They
have been so long apart that he feels some sort
of formal ratification of their old union necessary
before they begin life together again. He
wants some new solemnity between them to
piece the tie so long broken.'

They are man and wife,' cried Ethel.

4 Legally, of course, they are,' John answered,
patting one of her hands with his.
But you can understand the sense of division
which has come upon him. Think more
gently of him, darling. Think of what we
owe him.'

4 It was you who saved us all,' she protested.

'You would have found my help worth
very little,' John said gravely, 'if it had not
been for his.'

k Is he going back to Dinah ? '

'Yes. But I have a scheme in my own
mind which I am going to propose to him
when he comes this afternoon.'

What is it ? '

It depends on you.'

'On me?'

On you.'

What is it ? ' she asked again.

John, leaning nearer on his pillows, whispered
his scheme to her. She heard him out,
and answered, ' No.'

1 Not for Dinah's sake as well as mine ? '
pleaded John, who evidently set great store by
this scheme of his.

No,' she said again, but in a way which
was scarcely negative.

It is the very thing,' said John with cheerful
emphasis, ' the very thing.' And with
those wiles which happy lovers use he pressed
his case until at last she yielded.

May I tell Mm ? '

I suppose lie must know,' she answered
with a pleasant confusion.

I suppose so said John, with a look of
exultation on his face. ' Will you wait till he
returns and take the news to Dinah ? '

Yes,' she answered ; and he, opening his
arms for her, she arose, and stooped and kissed
him. The eyes of both were moist with the
dew of happiness as they sat and looked at
each other, a moment later, hand in hand.

Do you know, John,' she said after a blissful
pause, ' I am almost sorry for that wicked
old man, hard as he has been.'

Old Bushell ? ' asked John.

Yes. I should have been earlier here this
morning if I had not met him upon the way.
Sir Sydney's coachman was very near driving
over him upon the road, and he seemed quite
helpless. He knew the coachman, and asked if
he would drive him home, and said he felt
quite unable to walk. Of course I asked him
to get into the carriage, but the man and I had
to help him. I wanted to leave him there and

walk on, but he was evidently so ill that I was
afraid to do it. So we took him home and
waited until the doctor came. And whilst I
waited he told me what he had been out for.
I really think he wants to do what seems to be
his duty now. It seems only the other day
since he was a stout healthy man, and now what
a wreck he is ! He cried in quite a pitiful way
whilst he was talking, and he seemed to cling
to me so, because I pitied him and spoke kindly
to him. He begged me so hard to go and see
him again that I couldn't help promising. I
had meant to call again this afternoon, but I
must lose no time in carrying back this news to
Dinah.'

There she blushed a little, and drooped the
hazel eyes into which John looked so proudly
and so fondly.

Yes,' said John, ' he's nearly broken. He's
been a terrible old rogue, but he has suffered
for it. It was like parting with his soul to lose
the money he had held so long.'

I don't think he can live long, John. I
asked him to see a clergyman, but he said

No, no. You come an' talk about good
things to me. You'll do me more good thana
parson." '

So you will,' said John.

And there again, as happy lovers will, and
as they have a right to, they fell to talking of
their own affairs. Joe meantime rambled
lonely, but not coldhearted now, and gave
God thanks humbly, and with deep penitence
and lofty longings towards the future. In two
hours' time he returned to the cottage, and finding
Ethel still there would have retired again,
but John forbade him, and called him in.
Then, Ethel having joined Mrs. Bowker in the
kitchen, John summoned his visitor to the seat
she had vacated.

Bushell,' he said, ' congratulate me. I am
going to be married.'

I congratulate you with all my heart,' said
Joe ; and added, ' When ? '

As soon as I am well enough, and everything
can be arranged.' He laughed weakly in
his joy and triumph and held out a hand. Joe
grasped it, and he continued, ' The one creature

dearest in the world to your wife next to you is
my wife that is to be.'

I know as much,' said Joe.

'And Ethel has consented to this haste,'
said John, ' on condition that you take our
wedding-day as yours.'

Joe bent his head, and bringing up a secondhand
to the young lawyer's, gripped it hard in
both of his without a word.

4 That contents you ? '

'Yes.'

Call Ethel,' said John, dropping back upon
his pillows with a tired but happy look.

Joe obeyed.

It is settled, my darling,' said John. ' Side
away and tell Dinah.'

May I come with you ? ' asked Joe, blushing
like a schoolboy, but looking in her face
with candid eyes.

Come answered Ethel brightly, ' and
secure her consent yourself.'

CHAPTEE XXXVI.

c Let me go first,' said Ethel, as she and Joe
drove up the avenue at Worley Hall together,
'and make her ready for you.' And Joe
assenting, she left him with Sir Sydney in the
library whilst she ran away to find Dinah.
t My darling,' she cried, throwing both arms
about her friend's neck, ' I have such news for
you.' Dinah was not eager to ask the news,
but Ethel whispered to her, ' My dear, your
husband is here and is waiting to see you. No.
don't run away yet. I have something else to
tell you.'

She had yielded to John's solicitations, and
in her new-found happiness that had seemed an
easy thing enough to do. But now she had to
recall the fact, never very easy to forget, that
she and Dinah's son had once been affianced
lovers, and not so long ago. And yet Dinah

knew as well as she did how much she was
indebted to her new lover ; by what singular
bonds of pity and gratitude she had found herself
tied to him.

4 Dinah, I am going to be married.'
Yes, darling said Dinah ; ' to Mr. Keen ? '
8 Yes. We are going to be married directly
he gets w T ell again. And so are you.' Dinah
looked helpless at this extraordinary statement,
and Ethel explained it. ' My dear, I have seen
more of your husband to-day than I ever saw
of him before, and I begin to like him and
believe in him — a little. And now that I know
why he has been staying away from you, I
esteem his reason for it, hard as it seemed at
first.' She told the reason. 'And now,
Dinah,' she said gaily, * your old sweetheart
has come a-courting again.' But there the
gaiety suddenly broke down, and the two
women had a cry together, though they were
very tender and joyful tears that fell.

Then in a little while Dinah descended to
meet Joe, and waited for him in a small 
looking on the garden. Ethel went

to the library, and having returned with him,
fled, and left the two together.

'You know why I have been waiting,
Dinah?'

Yes, Joe.'

8 And you will take me back again ? '

Joe ! My own husband ! '

They embraced and kissed each other, and
sat there talking for hours, until Sir Sydney
came in and roused them. Then, the evening
being fine and bright, they walked in the garden
together after dinner, like lovers, with their
arms stolen shyly round each other, in dusky
walks where none could see them, and at night,
with a tender farewell, Joe went away to the
town again, but only to return next day and
sit and talk the day out alone with Dinah, and
wander about the gardens in the evening again
with an arm wound lover-like about her waist
as they wandered in dusky walks unnoticed.
And then again farewell for the night. A singular
courtship, but full of a complete forgiveness
on the one side and a complete penitence
on the other, and bidding fair to lead — if ever

courtship led yet — to a happy union. Sometimes
these lovers talked of their unhappy son,
and planned for his future, and he was the only
blot upon their hopes of happiness.

Could you bear, my dear,' asked Joe, ' to
leave England and go abroad with him and me
to some place where our whole story is unknown,
where he would have a new chance for
amendment ? '

Anywhere with you an' him, Joe answered
Dinah. ' Anywhere.'

I'll talk it over with him,' said Joe ; ' I
think it best. Here the memory of the past
may weigh him down and keep him hard and
sullen. And perhaps, my dear, between prosperity
and our watchfulness and affection he
may mend.'

Don't be too hard upon him, in your mind,
Joe,' said Dinah, pleadingly.

I have no right to be hard in my thoughts
on any man,' Joe answered sadly.

He was never a bad lad,' said poor Dinah,
i till he got into that money-lending lawyer's
hands and was tempted beyond his strength.'

VOL. III. T

Then we will go abroad together, and try
for the best ? '

'Yes, dearest. Anywhere with you and
him,' said Dinah, and the thing was settled.

So next day Joe sought his son and found
him. Dinah's purse had contained no less than
fifty pounds, and the young gentleman was once
more in clover. He was living in a highly respectable
hotel in private rooms, had already
set up another suit of clothes, and on his
father's unexpected entry to his sitting-room
was seated with his heels upon the low chime
with a cigar in his mouth and a
sporting paper in his hands. Beholding the
new comer, he arose embarrassed, and murmured
something about waiting for instructions,
and not knowing what to do without them.

I am here to give you instructions,' said
his father. ' For God's sake, man, go on smoking,
and don't try to hide your cigar from me.
Your mother and I,' he continued in a changed
tone, 'are going to the colonies, where our
curious story will be unknown We think it
better that you should accompany us. I have

been talking things over with your mother, and
I want to treat you kindly and to be your
friend. There will be no temptations in the
life before you unless you make them. Try to
mend, my lad : try to mend your life and your
mother's heart together. She has been unhappy
in both of us. Let us try together to make
atonement. You shall hear no more reproaches
as to your past so long as you behave reasonably
and give no cause for new offence. And I will
try to do my duty by you, and will be as kind
and good a father as you will let me be. Will
you come with us ? '

Yes, sir,' said young George with bent
head.

What money have you ?

My mother gave me this,' answered
George, producing his purse and spreading its
contents upon the table.

'You are not happy here, are you? So

near the ? ' he paused, and George's head

bent lower.

4 No, sir. I had rather be elsewhere.'

1 Go to Southampton and await us there.

T 2

When you want money write to me, not to
your mother. To attempt to draw one penny
from her without my knowledge is to forfeit my
protection and your own prospects. And that —
I hope — is my last threat to you. Shake hands.
Good-bye. Keep watch upon yourself, and try
to be a decent fellow henceforward. Good-bye.'

And he was gone.

4 I will try,' cried the wretched young
George, when left alone. ' I will be a decent
sort of fellow.'

Joe went back to Dinah and told her all
he had said and undertaken, and the quaintly
tender courtship went on again. They planned,
like common lovers, for their future life, and
like common lovers looked forward to their
wedding-day. Sometimes they went to see
John Keen, and day by day they found him
growing stronger. Sir Sydney pressed for the
wedding to take place from his house, but
Mrs. Donne was too shy to present herself
there, and Daniel had no other nurse than her,
and seemed likely very soon to be in want of
«io nurse at all. He had no memory of anything

and no knowledge of what went on about
him, missed nobody, sank swiftly, swiftly to his
final setting, poor old earthly luminary, who
had kept hearts warm in his time.

Ethel had redeemed her promise to call
upon old George, and at his request had read
the Bible to him ; the broken and defeated old
rascal taking his breakage and defeat for penitence,
as other people have done. He was
harmless now to everybody, quite a scotched
snake, and was gentle and forbearing even with
Mrs. Bull us. When John was well enough to
get out to him, he called with a draft of the
will, and having read it, bethought him of the
housekeeper.

She has been a good servant, Mr. Bushell,'
he ventured to say.

I forgot her, I forgot her,' said old
George eagerly. ' Put her down for summit
handsome. Fifty pound a year payable from
the estate. That's handsome, ain't it, eh ? I
want to do right by everybody. I'm afraid
I've been a hard man in my time, Mr. Keen.
I want to straighten everything' out afore I go.

Is their any thin' else as you can think on,
eh?'

John himself was weak yet, and the journey
to old George's threw him back a day or two.
He lived on at Bowker's cottage, and declared
stoutly that he would only leave it to be
married, a declaration highly approved of by
the coolly William and his wife.

It used to be a curious sight, and not
without its pathetic side, to see Ethel and
old George together, she reading and he listening,
for all the world as if he were a child
again.

6 Good words, ain't 'em, Miss Donne ? ' old
George would say. ' I wish I'd ha' paid more
heed to em' when I was younger.'

He failed and broke so rapidly, and was so
conscious of it, that he asked the doctor one
day in Ethel's presence :

Now you tell me straight out, and don't
you be afeard to speak the truth, because I've
made my peace with Them Above, an' I'm
ready when my time comes — How long do you
give me ? How many days ? '

Come, come,' said the doctor, ' you mustn't
talk in this way.'

4 But I must talk i' this way,' old George
protested. ' How many days ? '

That is in other hands than ours,' said the
doctor. ' I can't say.'

Shall I ever get off o' this here bed again
alive ? ' The doctor was silent. ' That's
enough. My dear, I should like to see my
never Joseph an' his wife, an' mek my peace
wi' em, if they'll be that good.'

They will come if you desire it, I am
sure.'

Write a note and send a cab with it,' he
answered, and almost immediately he fell
asleep.

1 Is he as near the end as he believes ? '
asked Ethel.

c I am afraid,' said the doctor, ' that it is
but a question of a few hours.'

Ethel wrote the note and sent it away, and
in less than two hours the cab returned bearing
Joe and Dinah.

'That's them,' cried the old man, who was

awakened by the sound of wheels. ' That's my
never Joseph.'

Yes,' said Ethel, looking from the window.
They are here.'

She went out to meet them, and prepare
them for the change in old George's condition.
They entered softly and stood by his
bedside.

'Never Joseph,' said Uncle George, 'you
can forgive a dying' man as asks for your forgiveness
? '

'We are all too much in need of one
another's mercy,' said Joe gently. ' Whatever
wrongs you did me, I forgive.'

An' you, missis ? ' said Uncle George looking
up at Dinah.

Oh yes, poor soul, with all my heart,' she
said.

Their's more than you know on to forgive,'
said George feebly. ' You see that their
mahogany chest o' drawers, my dear ' — addressing
Ethel.

< Yes.'

I' the left-hand little drawer you'll find a

bunch o' keys,' She found them. ' The biggest
on 'em opens that their wardrobe.'

8 Yes.' She opened it, and stood awaiting
him.

Do you see an old light overcoat a hanging'
up ? ' he demanded huskily from the bed.

Yes,' she said again.

Bring it to me.' She brought it, a decayed
and mildewed garment of alight fine cloth, lined
with a faded watered silk and having a blotched
and faded collar of the same.

It was my never Joseph's coat,' he said,
reaching out a feeble hand for it. ' I found it
'ears an' 'ears after he'd gone away, after you
come to me, missis.' Dinah nodded to signify
that she understood. ' Their was a certificate
o' your marriage in the linen', an' I found that
an' I burned it, God forgive me. Yes, I burned
it, Joseph. That was my wicked crime.'

1 God forgive you for it,' said Joe.

God forgive you for it as I do,' said
Dinah.

'That's my — last — confession,' said old
George. He had been speaking with feebler

and still feebler breath all through, and now it
seemed to fail him. 8 You do forgive me ?
Both of you?'

8 With all my heart,' said Joe.

8 And you too, missis ? '

8 Poor dying' fellow-creature, yes,' cried
Dinah weeping. ' With all my heart.'

8 Stay till it's all o'er wi' me,' old George
besought Ethel, and she promised.

But there was not long to stay, for almost
as she spoke he gave one long, long sigh and
never breathed again. There was nobody to
grieve greatly at his going, but the women
were a good deal moved for the moment.
Joe attended the funeral, and John Keen, who
was by this time well enough to attend without
danger, read the will in the presence of a few
witnesses, who all heard it with amazement.
Young George was apprised of his fortune and
came up from Southampton to see about it.
And since I am in something of a hurry to be
rid of young George, and have for the most
part done with his adventures, I may as well
anticipate a little and dismiss him here. In a

certain Australian weekly journal I saw a case
the other day in which a youngster was reported
as having undergone his preliminary
trial before the magisterial bench on a charge
of forgery. And the magistrate, who behaved
apparently with a long-winded dignity and had
a good deal of the talking to himself, bore the
name of George Bushell. George is highly
respected, keeps a carriage and good horses,
and is, I am told, likely enough to be married
one of these early days. This is a world in
which singular awards are sometimes made,
and is not governed always on the plan of the
fictionist, who has it in his power to bless the
good with wealth and happiness and to beat
the evil — to rescue Marguerite and find a
warm corner for Mephistopheles. But the way
of the world is ordered otherwise, and it is not
only the magnanimous, the gentle, and the
good who prosper in it.

And now there rises over Wrethedale town
that sun of early summer whose happy lot it is
to look on youth and beauty wedded to worth

and love. A charming morning, and the birds
all wild with mirth. Sir Sydney Cheston rises
betimes from his bed in the little hotel, and
bedecks himself as gaily as if he were the
bridegroom, for it is his to give the bride away,
and this being his first experience in that line,
and the bride and bridegroom being both
special favourites of his, he is anxious to do
justice to the part. John Keen is up betimes
also in the next room, and Sir Sydney hears
him singing, a little crow-like, for John is no
great vocalist, but brother than lark or linnet.
Miss Donne and Mrs. Donne are also up
betimes, and what with the plaiting of hair and
putting on of apparel, and the kissing and crying
which ensue at intervals, find their hands
full. Joe, sitting in his room in the little hotel,
can hear John's strident melody, and feels his
heart go out to the young fellow, yet can scarce
help a touch of sadness to think his own son
should have lost the prize, and so well deserved
to lose it. But he counts himself, all in all,
the most blessed of men, the least deserving
and most gently dealt with, and his heart is

full. Dinah, in her own little house, makes
breakfast ready for old Daniel, and feeds
him, and tucks him comfortably in his great
arm-chair, and then goes in to assist at
Ethel's decoration — she, too, with some sad
thoughts amidst all her gladness and her thankfulness.


In due time John goes down to the church,
alone, and kicks his heels about in the vestry,
regarding his hat with some disfavour, and as a
blot upon the day. For John's redundant
locks have not yet fully grown again, and the
hat to its owner's mind looks pinched and
small. Sir Sydney has scouted the idea of
being married in a wide-awake as altogether
heathen and unheard-of, and the present article
is John's first possession in the conventional
stove-pipe form. In a while, quietly and afoot,
and with no bridal veil, comes Ethel on Sir
Sydney's arm, her mother following, and Joe
and Dinah bringing up the rear.

Joe and Dinah halted at the porch.

Have you the ring, my darling ? ' Joe
asked, and Dinah slid from her finder the

wedding-ring young Joe had placed there so
many years before.

They entered the church together and sat
down in a dark old-fashioned pew beneath the
gallery. A tender rain of tears fell from
Dinah's eyes, and Joe sat silent, with bent head.
They waited thus for a while, until Dinah
stole her hand into his and he stooped and
kissed it.

A little later came the sound of footsteps,
and a voice was heard : —

6 1 require and charge you both, as ye shall
answer at the dreadful day of judgment, when
the secrets of all hearts shall be disclosed — '

And as the voice began the two in the dark
old-fashioned pew knelt down together. Again
the voice : —

Wilt thou have this woman to thy wedded
wife?'

And when the voice had ceased, John
Keen answered with a solemn gladness in Ins
tone, c I will,' and Joe Bushell, kneeling in the
darkened pew, whispered ' I will.'

Then came the question to the woman, and
Ethel and Dinah answered, each from her
place, ' I will.'

The murmured voices came solemnly down
the aisle, and found an answer at the end of
the old church.

I take thee to my wedded wife, to have
and to hold from this day forward, for better
for worse, for richer, for poorer, in sickness and
in health, to love and to cherish till death do
us part, according to God's holy ordinance, and
thereto I plight thee my troth.'

The tears of both fell fast as they knelt in
the darkened pew together, and their arms
were about each other's necks. The murmured
voices sounded fainter down the aisle, and found
yet a fainter echo at the end.

4 I take thee to my wedded husband,' and
so through, with tears and tender embraces,
how glad and yet regretful.

The voices sounded fuller in the aisle, and
Joe took the old pledge of truth, so ill-fulfilled,
and passed it upon Dinah's finger.

With this ring I thee wed, with my body
I thee worship, with all my worldly goods I thee
endow.'

And so they knelt with tears, and silent
kisses, and embraces, until the voices ceased,
the last footstep died away, and the silence was
broken only by their whispers.

At last ! at last ! ' she said, ' my own true
husband. Mine again. Mine ! mine ! '

4 Yes,' he answered from his soul. ' Yours,
Dinah. Yours for ever ! '

THE END.

LONDON : Printed BY

SPOTTISWOODB AND CO., NEW-street Squab

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

CHATTO & WlNDUS's
List of Books.

NE IV FINE-AR T WORK. Large 4to, bound in buckram, 21s.
Abdication, The ; or, Time Tries All.

An Historical Drama. By W. D. Scott-Moncrieff. With Seven
Etchings by John Petite, R.A., W. Q. Richardson, R.A., J. Mac
Whiter. A. R. A Colin Hunter , R. Macbeth, and Tom Graham.

Crown 8vo, Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations, cloth gilt, js. 6d»

Advertising, A History of.

From the Earliest Times. Illustrated by Anecdotes, Curious Specimens,
and Notices of Successful Advertisers. By Henry Sampson.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with 639 Illustrations, js. 6d.

Architectural Styles, A Handbook of.

Fromjthe German of A. R osengarten by W. Collett-Sandars.
Crown 8vo, with Portrait and Facsimile, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Artemus Ward's Works :

The Works of Charles Farrer Browne, better known as Artemus
Ward. With Portrait, Facsimile of Handwriting, &c.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London;

With some Account of their Predecessors, the Early Goldsmiths ; together
with Lists of Bankers from 1677 to 1876. By F. G. Hilton Price.

Bardsley (Rev. C. W.), Works by :

English Surnames : Their Sources and Significations. By
Charles Warning Bardsley, M.A. Crown Svo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature. By Charles W.

Bardsley. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7 ^. 6d.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, Illustrated, js. 6d.

Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs of.

By,HENRY Morley. New Edition, with One Hundred Illustrations.

Imperial 4to, cloth extra, gilt and gilt edges, 21;. per volume.

Beautiful Pictures by British Artists :

A Gathering of Favourites from our Picture Galleries. In Two Series.

The First Series including Examples by Wilkie, Constable,
Turner, Already, Landseer, Machine, E. M. Ward, Frith 9
Sir John Gilbert, Leslie, Anselm, Marcus Stone, Sir Noel
Paton, Feed, Eyre Crown, Gavin O'Neil, and Maddox Brown.

The Second Series containing Pictures by Armytage, Feed,

Goodwill, Henley, Horsey, MARKS, Nicholls, Sir NOEL

Paton, Pickersgill, G. Smith, Marcus Stone, Solomon,
Straight, E. M. Ward, and Warren.

All engraved on Steel in the highest style of Art. Edited, with
Notices of the Artists, by Sydney Armytage, M.A.
This book is well got up, and good engravings by Teens, Lutnb Stocks, and
others, bring back to us Royal Academy Exhibitions of past years." — Times.

Small 4to, green and gold, 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 7s. 6d t

Bernstein's As Pretty as Seven,

And other German Stories. Collected by Ludwig Bernstein. With
Additional Tales by the Brothers Grimm, and 100 Illustrations by

Richter.

One Shilling Monthly, Illustrated.

Belgravia for 1882.

A New Serial Story, entitled " All Sorts and Conditions of Men''
written by Walter Besant and James Rice, Authors of " Ready-money
Mortiboy," &c, and Illustrated by Fred. Barnard, will be
begun in the January Number of Belgravia ; this Number will
contain also the First Chapters of a New Novel, entitled " The
Admiral's Ward," by Mrs. Alexander, Author of "The
Wooing o't," &c. ; and ths first of a series of Twelve Papers, entitled
'* About Yorkshire," by Katharine S. Macquoid, illustrated by
T. R. Macquoid.
V The Forty-fifth Volume of BELGRAVIA, elegantly bound
in crimson cloth, full gilt side and back, gilt edges, price js. 6d., is now
ready. — Handsome Cases for binding volumes can be had at zs. each.

Demy 8vo, with Illustrations, is.

Belgravia Annual.

With Stories by Wilkie Collins, F. W. Robinson, Dutton Cook,
Percy Fitzgerald, J. Arbuthnot Wilson, Henry W. Lucy
D. Christie Murray, James Payn, and others. [Nov. 10.

Folio, half-bound boards, India Proofs, 21;,

Blake (William) :

Etchings from his Works. By W. B. SCOTT. With descriptive Text.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Boccaccio's Cameron;

or, Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated into English, with an Introduction
by Thomas Wright, Esq., M.A., F.S.A. With Portrait, and

Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.

Demy 8vo, Illustrated, uniform in size for binding.

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks:

Academy Notes, 1875. With 40 Illustrations. is.
Academy Notes, 1876. With 107 Illustrations, is.
Academy Notes, 1877. With 143 Illustrations, is.
Academy Notes, 1878. With 150 Illustrations, is.
Academy Notes, 1879. With 146 Illustrations, is'.
Academy Notes, 1880. With 126 Illustrations, is.
Academy Notes, 1881. With 128 Illustrations, is.
Grosvenor Notes, 1878. W T with 68 Illustrations. is.
Grosvenor Notes, 1879. With 60 Illustrations. is.
Grosvenor Notes, 1880. With 56 Illustrations. is.
Grosvenor Notes, 1881. With 74 Illustrations. is.
Pictures at the Paris Exhibition, 1878. 80 Illustrations, is.
Pictures at South Kensington. With 70 Illustrations, is.
The English Pictures at the National Gallery. 1 14 Illusts. is.
The Old Masters at the National Gallery. 128 Illusts. is. 6d.
Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete in One Volume, with
nearly 600 Illustrations in Facsimile. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue to the National Gallery*

With Notes by H. Blackburn, and 242 Illusts. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 3*.
UNIFORM WITH "ACADEMY NOTES."
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1878. 1 1 7 Illustrations. IS.
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1879. 125 Illustrations, is.
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1880. 114 Illustrations, is.
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1881. 104 Illustrations, is.
Glasgow Institute of Pine Arts Notes, 1878. 95 Illusts. If.
Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1879. 100 Illusts. is.
Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1880. 120 Illusts. I*.
Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1881. 108 Illusts. is.
Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1878. 112 Illusts. is.
Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1879. 100 Illusts. is.
Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1880. 100 Illusts. is.
Royal Manchester Institution Notes, 1878. 88 Illustrations. I*.
Society of Artists Notes, Birmingham, 1878. 95 Illusts. is.
Children of the Great City. By F. W. Lawson. is.

Bowers' (G.) Hunting Sketches:

Canters in Hampshire. By G. Bowers. I. Gallops from

Gorseborough. II. Scrambles with Scratch Packs. III. Studies with
Stag Hounds. Oblong 4to, half-bound boards, 21s.

Leaves from a Hunting Journal. By G. Bowers. Coloured in

facsimile of the originals. Oblong 410, half-bound, its.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, js. 6d.

Brand's Observations on Popular Antiquities,

chiefly Illustrating the Origin of our Vulgar Customs, Ceremonies, and
Superstitions. With the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis. An entirely
New and Revised Edition, with fine full-page Illustrations.

Bret Harte, Works by :

Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged and Revised by the
Author. Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
Vol. I. Complete Poetical and Dramatic Works. With Steel Plate

Portrait, and an Introduction by the Author.
Vol. II. Earlier Papers— Luck of Roaring Camp, and other Sketches

Bohemian Papers — Spanish and American Legends.
Vol. III. Tales of the Argonauts— Eastern Sketches.
Vol. IV. Gabriel Convoy.
Vol. V. Stories— Condensed Novels, &c.
The Select Works of Ere Harte, in Prose and Poetry. With
Introductory Essay by J. M. Belleww, Portrait of the Author, and 50
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

An Heiress of Need Dog, and other Stories. By Bret Harte.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, zs. ; cloth limp, zs. 6d.

The Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harte. Cap.

8vo, picture cover, 1*. ; crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3$. 6d.

The Luck of Roaring Camp, and other Sketches. By Bret

Harte. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, zs.

Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret Harte. Fcap. 8vo, picture

cover, is. ; cloth extra, zs. 6d.

Small crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with full-page Portraits, 4^. 6d.

Brewster's (Sir David) Martyrs of Science.

Small crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Astronomical Plates, 4.J. 6d.

Brewster's (Sir D.) More Worlds than One,

the Creed of the Philosopher and the Hope of the Christian.

A HANDSOME GIFT-BOOK.— Small 4to, cloth extra, profusely
Illustrated, 6s.

Brushwood.

By T. Buchanan Read. Illustrated from Designs by Frederick
Delian.

THE STOTHARD BUN VAN.— Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7 s. 6d,

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17 beautiful Steel Plates by
Stothard, engraved by Goodwill ; and numerous Woodcuts.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy :

A New Edition, complete, corrected and enriched by Translations of the
Classical Extracts.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Byron's Letters and Journals.

With Notices of his Life. By Thomas Moore. A Reprint of the
Original Edition, newly revised, with Twelve full-page Plates.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 14J.

Campbell's (Sir G.) White and Black :

Travels in the United States. By Sir George Campbell, M.P.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Caravan Route (The) between Egypt and

Syria. By His Imperial and Royal Highness the Archduke Ludwig
Salvator of Austria. With 23 full-page Illustrations by the Author.

Post 8vo, cloth extra, is. 6d.

Carlyle (Thomas) On the Choice of Books.

With a Life of the Author by R. H. Shepherd. Entirely New ana
Revised Edition.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Century (A) of Dishonour :

A Sketch of the United States Government's Dealings with some of
the Indian Tribes.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Chap-Books.— A History of the Chap-Books

of the Eighteenth Century. By John Ashton. With nearly 400
Illustrations, engraved in facsimile of the originals. [In the press.

# * A few Large Paper copies will be carefully printed on hand-made
paper, for which early application should be made.

Large 4to, half-bound, profusely Illustrated, 28s.

Chatty and Jackson.— A Treatise on Wood

Engraving : Historical and Practical. By William Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson. With an Additional Chapter by Henry G.
John; and 450 fine Illustrations. Reprint of the last Revised Edition.

Small 4to, cloth gilt, with Coloured Illustrations, ioj. 6d.

Chaucer for Children:

A Golden Key. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. With Eight Coloured
Pictures and numerous Woodcuts by the Author.

Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Chaucer for Schools.

By Mrs. Haweis, Author of "Chaucer for Children.'

Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Map and Illustrations, 2s. 6d.

Cleopatra's Needle:

Its Acquisition and Removal to England. By Sir J. E. ALEXANDER
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, js. 6d.

Coleman's Humorous Works :

Broad Grins," " My Nightgown and Slippers," and other Humorous
Works, Prose and Poetical, of George Coleman. With Life by G.
B. Euckstone, and Frontispiece by Hogarth.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, is. 6d.

Convalescent Cookery:

A Family Handbook. By Catherine Ryan.

Conway (Moncure D.), Works by :

Demonology and Devil-Lore. By Moncure D. Conway,

M.A. Two Vols. , royal 8vo, with 65 Illustrations, 28*.

A Necklace of Stories. By Moncure D. Conway, M.A.

Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy. Square 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

The Wandering Jew. By Moncure D. Conway, M.A. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Thomas Carlyle. By Moncure D. Conway, M.A. With

Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21s.

Cook (Dutton.— Hours with the Players.

By Dutton Cook.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, zs. 6d.

Copyright.— A Handbook of English and

Foreign Copyright in Literary and Dramatic Works. Being a concise
Digest of the Laws regulating Copyright in the Chief Countries
of the World, together with the Chief Copyright Conventions existing
between Great Britain and Foreign Countries. By Sidney Ferrol,
of the Middle Temple, Esq., Barrister-ate Law.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Cornwall.— Popular Romances of the West

of England ; or, The Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions of Old
Cornwall. Collected and Edited by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New
and Revised Edition, with Additions, and Two Steel-plate Illustrations
by George Cruikshank.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13 Portraits, js. 6d.

Creasy's Memoirs of Eminent Etonians ;

with Notices of the Early History of Eton College. By Sir Edward
Creasy, Author of "The Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Etched Frontispiece, 7s. 6d.

Credulity, Past and Present.

By William Jones, Fas. A., Author of " Finger-Ring Lore," &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Crimes and Punishments.

Including a New Translation of Beccaria's " Dei Dslitti e delle Pen."
By James Anson Farrer.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, Two very thick Volumes-js. 6d. each.

Cruikshank's Comic Almanac.

Complete in Two Series : The First from 1835 to 1843 ; the Second
from 1844 to 1853. A Gathering of the Best Humour of
Thackeray, Hood, Mathew, Albert Smith, A'Beckett,
Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000 Woodcuts and Steel Engravings
by Cruikshank, Line, Handel's, &c.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 24s.

Cruikshank (The Life of George).

In Two Epochs. By Blanchard Jerrold, Author of "The Life
of Napoleon Iii," &c. With numerous Illustrations, and a List of
his Works. [In preparation.

Two Vols. , demy 4to, handsomely bound in half-morocco, gilt, profusely
Illustrated with Coloured and Plain Plates and Woodcuts, price £7 7s.

Encyclopaedia of Costume ;

or, A Dictionary of Dress — Regal, Ecclesiastical, Civil, and Military—
from the Earliest Period in England to the reign of George the Third.'
Including Notices of Contemporaneous Fashions on the Continent,
and a General History of the Costumes of the Principal Countries of
Europe. By J. R. Planche, Somerset Herald.
The Volumes may also be had separately (each Complete in itself) at £2 i3S.6d. each J
Vol. I. THE DICTIONARY.

Vol. II. A GENERAL HISTORY OF COSTUME IN EUROPE.
Also in 25 Parts, at 5$. each. Cases for binding, $s, each.
*' A comprehensive and highly valuable book of reference. . . . We have
rarely failed to find in this book an account of an article of dress , while in most
of the entries curious and instructive details are given. . . . Mr. PlanctWl
enormous labour of love, the production of a text which, whether in its dictionary
form or in that of the ' General History,' is within its intended scope immeasurably
the best and richest work on Costume in English. . . , This book is not only
one of the most readable works of the kind, but intrinsically attractive and
amusing"— Athenaeum.

A most readable and interesting work — and it can scarcely be consulted in
vain, whether the reader is in search for information as to military, court,
ecclesiastical, legal, or professional costume. . . . All the chromolithographs,
and most of the woodcut illustrations— the latter amounting to several thousands
are very elaborately executed; and the work forms a livre de luxe which renders
it equally suited to the library and the ladies' drawing-room" — Times.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s. 6d.

Dora's Memories of our Great Towns.

With Anecdotic Gleanings concerning their Worthies and their
Oddities. By Dr. John Dora, F.S.A.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21s.

Drury Lane, Old :

Fifty Years' Recollections of Author, Actor, and Manager.
Edward Stirling.

Demy 8vo, cloth, 16s.

Duty's India, Past and Present;

with Minor Essays on Cognate Subjects. By Shoshee CHUNDBS
Duty, Rai Babadcor.

Crown 8vo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume.

Early English Poets.

Edited, with Introductions and Annotations, by Rev. A. B. Groat.

I. Fletcher's (Giles, Bed.) Complete
Poems : Christ's Victorie in
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth,

Christ's Triumph over Death, and
Minor Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes. One Vol.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works, including Psalms I.
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto
Unpublished MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited. Memorial-introduction
and Notes. Two Vols.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides,

Noble Numbers, and Complete
Collected Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes, Steel Portrait,
Index of First Lines, and
Glossarial Index, &c. Three Vols.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works, including all
those in "Arcadia." With Portrait,
Memorial Introduction, Essay on
the Poetry of Sidney, and Notes.
Three Vols.

Imperial 8vo, with 147 fine Engravings, half-morocco, clearly

Teutonic, Italian, and French Masters

(The). Translated and Edited from the Dome Series, by A. H.
Keene, M.A.I. With numerous Illustrations.
Cannot fail to be of the utmost use to students of art history." — Times.

Crown svo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 6s.

Emanuel On Diamonds and Precious

Stones ; their History, Value, and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With
numerous Illustrations, Tinted and Plain.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Englishman's House, The :

A Practical Guide to all interested in Selecting or Building a House,
with full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c. By C. J. Richardson.
Third Edition. With nearly 600 Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with nearly 300 Illustrations, js. 6d.

Evolution, Chapters on;

A Popular History of the Darwinian and Allied Theories of Development.
By Andrew Wilson, Ph.D., F.R.S. Eden. &c. [In preparation.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Evolutionist (The) At Large.

By Grant Allen.

By tke same Author. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Vignettes from Nature.

By Grant Allen, vin preparation.

Folio, cloth extra, £1 11s. 6d.

Examples of Contemporary Art.

Etchings from Representative Works by living English and Foreign
Artists. Edited, with Critical Notes, by J. Coins Carr.
It would not be easy to meet with a more sumptuous, and at the same time
a more tasteful and instructive drawing-room book." — Nonconformist.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.

Fairholt's Tobacco :

Its History and Associations ; with an Account of the Plant and its
Manufacture, and its Modes of Use in all Ages and Countries. By F.
W. Fairholt, F.S.A. With Coloured Frontispiece and upwards of
100 Illustrations by the Author.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Familiar Allusions :

A Handbook of Miscellaneous Information ; including the Names of
Celebrated Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country Seats, Ruins,
Churches, Ships, Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the like.
By William A. Wheeler, Author of " Noted Names of Fiction, '
and Charles G. Wheeler. [In the press.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 4J. 6d.

Faraday's Chemical History of a Candle.

Lectures delivered to a Juvenile Audience. A New Edition. Edited
by W. Crookes, F.C.S. With numerous Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 4s. 6d.

Faraday's Various Forces of Nature.

New Edition. Edited byW. Crookes, F.C.S. Numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Finger-Ring Lore:

Historical, Legendary, and Anecdotal. By Wm. Jones, F.S.A. With

Hundreds of Illustrations of Curious Rings of all Ages and Countries.

•' One of those gossiping books which are as full of amusement as of instructors"—

ATHENjBUM.

Gardening Books:

A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse : Practical Advice

to Amateur Gardeners as to the Management of the Flower, Fruit, and
Frame Garden. By George Glenny. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. td.
Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we Grow, and How we
Cook Them. Ey Tom Jerrold, Author of "The Garden that Paid the
Rent," &c. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. td.

Household Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. Ey Tom
and Jane Jerrold. Illustrated. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

My Garden Wild, and What I Grew there. By Francis

George Heath. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5*.

One Shilling Monthly.

Gentleman's Magazine (The), for 1882.

The January Number of this Periodical will contain the First Chapters
of a New Serial Story, entitled " Dust," by Julian Hawthorne,
Author of "Garth," &c. "Science Notes," by W. Mattie
Williams, F.R.A.S., will also be continued monthly.

%* Now ready, the Volume for January to June, isti, cloth extra,
price 8s. 6d.; and Cases for binding, price 2s. each.

Demy 8vo, illuminated cover, is.

Gentleman's Annual, The.

Containing Two Complete Novels. \ Nov. 15.

THE RUSK IN GRIMM.— Square 8vo, cloth extra, 6j. 6d. ;
gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

German Popular Stories.

Collected by the Brothers Grimm, and Translated by EDGAR Taylor.

Edited with an Introduction by John Ruskin. With 22 Illustrations

after the inimitable designs of George Cruikshank. Both Series

Complete.
** The illustrations of this volume . . . are of quite sterling and admirable
art, of a class precisely parallel in elevation to the character of the tales which
they illustrate ; and the original etchings, as I have before said in the Appendix to
my * Elements of Drawing* were unrivalled in masterfulness of touch since Rent'
brandt (in some qualities of delineation, unrivalled even by him). . . . To make
somewhat enlarged copies of them, looking at them through a magnifying glass,
and never putting two lines where CruiksJiank has put only one, would be an exercise
in decision and severe drawing which would leave afterwards little to be learnt
in schools"— Extract from Introduction by John Ruskin.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2J. 6d.

Glenny's A Year's Work in Garden and

Greenhouse : Practical Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to the Management
of the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden. By George Glenny.
A great deal of valuable information, conveyed in very simple language. The

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt and gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Golden Treasury of Thought, The:

An Encyclopaedia of Quotations from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by Theodore Taylor

New and Cheaper Edition, demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s, 6d.

Greeks and Romans, The Life of the,

Described from Antique Monuments. By Ernst Gull and W.
Koner. Translated from the Third German Edition, and Edited by
Dr. F. Suffer. With 545 Illustrations.

Square imo (Tauchnitz size),

Golden Library, The :

Ballad History of England. By

W. C. Bennett.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of

the Echo Club.

Byron's Don Juan.
Emerson's Letters and Social

Aims.

Godwin's (William) Lives of

the Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the

Breakfast Table. With an Introduction
by G. A. Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the

Breakfast Table.

Hood's Whims and Oddities.

Complete. With all the original Illustrations.


Irving' s (Washington) Tales of

a Traveller.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of

the Alhambra.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and

Occupations of Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of Elia. Both

Series Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays : A Tale

for a Chimney Corner, and other
Pieces. With Portrait, and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier.

cloth extra, vs. per volume.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

d' Arthur : The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round
Table. Edited by B. Montgomery
Ranking.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. Crib,
Dad.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Saint e-
Veuve.

St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia,

and The Indian Cottage. Edited,
with Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Shelley's Early Poems, and

Queen Mab, with Essay by Leigh
Hunt.

Shelley's Later Poems : Lion

and Cythna, &c.

Shelley's Posthumous Poems,

the Shelley Papers, &c.

Shelley's Prose Works, including
A Refutation of Deism, Zastrozzi
St. Irvine, &c.

White's Natural History of Sel.

borne. Edited, with Additions, by
Thomas Brown, F.L.S.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, \s. 6d.

Guyot's Earth and Manor,

Physical Geography in its Relation to the History of Mankind.
With Additions by Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray ; ia Maps
and Engravings on Steel, some Coloured, and copious Index.

ake (Dr. Thomas Gordon), Poems by :

Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth extra, $s.

New Symbols. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Legends of the Morrow. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Medium 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Hall's (Mrs. S. C.) Sketches of Irish Character.

With numerous Illustrations on Steel and Wood by Machine, Gilbert,
Harvey, and G. Cruikshank.
"The Irish Sketches of this lady resemble Miss Milford's Beautiful English

sketches in ' Our Village,' but they are far more vigorous and picturesque and

bright"— Blackwood's Magazine.

Eaweis (Mrs), Works by :

The Art of Dress. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Illustrated by the

Author. Small 8vo, illustrated cover, is. ; cloth limp, is. 6d.
A well-considered attempt to apply canons of good taste to the costutntt

of ladies of our time Mrs. Haweis writes frankly and to the

point, she does not mince matters, but boldly remonstrates with her own sex
on the follies they indulge in. i . . . We may recommend the book to tht
ladies whom it concerns" — Then-sum.
The Art of Beauty. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square 8vo,

cloth extra, gilt, gilt edges, with Coloured Frontispiece and nearly hoo

Illustrations, vos. 6d.

The Art of Decoration. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square 8vo,

handsomely bound and profusely Illustrated, 10s. 6d.

%* See also Chaucer, p. 5 of this Catalogue.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5*.

Heath (F. G.)-My Garden Wild,

And What I Grew there. By Francis George Heath, Author of
"The Fern World," &c.

SPECIMENS OF MODERN POETS.— Grown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Heptalogia (The) ; or, The Seven against Sense.

A Cap with Seven Bells.
The merits of the book cannot be fairly estimated by means of a few extracts ;
it should be read at length to be appreciated properly, and, in our opinion, its
merits entitle it to be very widely read indeed." — St. James's Gazette.

Cr. 8vo, bound in parchment, Ss. ; Large-Paper copies (only 50 printed), 15*.

Herbert.— The Poems of Lord Herbert of

Carbury. Edited, with an Introduction, by J . Wharton Collins.
Complete in Four Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s. each.

History Of Our Own Times, from the Accession

of Queen Victoria to the General Election of 1880. By Justin
McCarthy, M.P.

"Criticism is disarmed before a composition which provokes little but approval.
This is a really good book on a really interesting subject, and words piled on words
could say no more for //."—Saturday Review.

New Work by the A author of "A HIS TOR Y of OUR OWN TIMES. ' '
Four Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s. each.

History of the Four Georges.

By Justin McCarthy, M.P. vin preparation.

Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2s. 6d.

Holmes's The Science of Voice Production

and Voice Preservation : A Popular Manual for the Use of Speakers
and Singers. By Gordon Holmes, L.R.C.P.E.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, js. 6d.

Hood's (Thomas) Choice Works,

In Prose and Verse. Including the Cream of the Comic Annuals.
With Life of the Author, Portrait, and Two Hundred Illustrations.

Square crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s.

Hood's (Tom) From Nowhere to the North

Pole : A Noah's Archaeological Narrative. With 25 Illustrations by
W. Brandon and E. C. Barnes.

"The amusing letterpress is profusely interspersed with the jingling rhymto
vjhich children love and learn so easily. Messrs. Brandon and Barnes do full
justice to the writer's meaning, and a pleasant result of the harmonious Cooperation
of author and artist could not be desired. " —Times.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, js. 6d.

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous Works,

including his Ludicrous Adventures, Bons-mots, Puns, and Hoaxes;
With a new Life of the Author, P portraits, Facsimiles, and Illustrations,
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, js.

Home's Orion :

An Epic Poem in Three Books. By Richard Hengist Horns.
With a brief Commentary by the Author. With Photographic Portrait
from a Medallion by Summers. Tenth Edition.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Howell's Conflicts of Capital and Labour

Historically and Economically considered. Being a History and
Review of the Trade Unions of Great Britain, showing their Origin,
Progress, Constitution, and Objects, in their Political, Social, Economical,
and Industrial Aspects. By George Howell.
This book is an attempt, and on the whole a successful attempt, to place th
•Mork of trade unions in the past, and their objects in the future, fairly before th
public from the working mari s point of view." — Pall Mall Gazette.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s. 6d.

Heifer's The Troubadours:

A History of Provencal Life and Literature in the Middle Ages. By
Francis Suffer.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Janvier.— Practical Keramics for Students.

By Catherine A. Janvier.

Will be found a useful handbook by those who wish to try the manufacture
or decoration of pottery, and may be studied by all w/u> desire to know something
of the arty — Mokni ng Post. ^

A New Edition, Revised and partly Re written, with several New
Chapters and Illustrations, crown 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Jennings' The Rosicrucians :

Their Rites and Mysteries. With Chapters on the Ancient Fire and
Serpent Worshippers. By Hargrave Jennings. With Five full-page
Plates and upwards of 300 Illustrations.

Jerrold (Tom), Works by:

Household Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. By Tom

and Jane Jerrold. Illustrated. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2S.6d.

Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we Grow, and How we Cook
Them. By Tom Jerrold, Author of "The Garden that Paid the Rent,"
&C. Post 8vo, cloth limp, zs. 6d.

The combination of hints on cookery with gardening has been very cleverly
carried out, and the result is an interesting and highly instructive little work.
Mr. Jerrold is correct in saying that English firople do-not make half the use of
vegetables they might ; and by showing how easily they can be grown, and so obtained
fresh, he is doing a great deal to make them more popular"— Daily Chronicle.

Two Vols. 8vo, with 52 Illustrations and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 14J.

Josephus, The Complete Works of.

Translated by Whiston. Containing both " The Antiquities of the
Jews " and " The Wars of the Jews."

Small 8vo, cloth, full gilt, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 6s.

Kavanaghs' Pearl Fountain,

And other Fairy Stories. By Bridget and Julia KAVANAGH. With
Thirty Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith.

M Genuine new fairy stories of the old type, some of them as delightful as tribes

of Grimm's ' German Popular Stories' For the most part thi

cries are downright, thorough-going fairy stories of the most admirable kind.

. . Mr. Moyr Smith's illustrations, too, are admirable." — Spectator.

Square 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.

Knight (The) and the Dwarf.

By Charles Mills. With numerous Illustrations by Thomas
Lindsay.

Crown 8vo, illustrated boards, with numerous Plates, zs. 6d.

Lace (Old Point), and How to Copy and

Imitate it. By Daisy Warehouse Hawkins. With 17 Illustrations
by the Author.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Portraits, 7s. 6d.

Lamb's Complete Works,

In Prose and Verse, reprinted from the Original Editions, with many
Pieces hitherto unpublished. Edited, with Notes and Introduction,
by R. H. Shepherd. With Two Portraits and Facsimile of a Page
of the " Essay on Roast Pig."

"A complete edition of Lamb's writings, in prose and verse, has long been
wanted, and is now supplied. The editor appears to have taken great pains
to bring together Lamb's scattered contributions, and his collection contains a
number of pieces which are now reproduced for the first time since their original
appearance in various old periodicals"— Saturday Review.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, ioj. 6d.

Lamb (Mary and Charles) :

Their Poems, Letters, and Remains. With Reminiscences and Notes
by W. Carew Hazlitt. With Hancock's Portrait of the Essayist,
Facsimiles of the Title-pages of the rare First Editions of Lamb's and
Coleridge's Works, and numerous Illustrations.

•* Very many passages will delight those fond ef literary trifles ; hardly any
portion will fail in interest for lovers of Charles Lamb and his sister. "standard.

Small 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Lamb's Poetry for Children, and Prince

Doris. Carefully Reprinted from unique copies.

The quaint and delightful little book, over the recovery of which all the hearth
ef his lovers are yet warm with rejoicing"— A. C. Swinburne.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lares and Penates;

Or, The Background of Life. By Florence Caddy.

The whole book is well worth reading, for it is full of practical suggestions.
. . . We hope nobody will be deterred from taking up a book which teaches a
food deal about sweetening poor lives as well as giving grace to wealthy ones." —
Graphic.

Crown 8vo, cloth, full gilt, 6s.

Leigh's A Town Garland.

By Henry S. Leigh, Author of " Carols of Cockayne."
,c If Mr. Leigh's verse survive to a future generation — and there is no reason
why that hotwur should not be accorded production* so delicate, so finished, and so
full of humour — their author will probably be remembered as the Poet of the.
Strand." — Athenaeum.

Second Edition.— Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.

By Andrew Wilson, F.R.S.E., Lecturer on Zoology and Comparative
Anatomy in the Edinburgh Medical School.

"It is well when we can take up the work of a really qualified investigator*
who in the intervals of his more serious prof essional labours sets himself to impart
knowledge in such a simple and elementary form as may attract and instruct,
with no danger of misleading the tyro in natural science. Such a work is this
little volume, made up of essays and addresses written and delivered by Dr.
A drew Wilson, lecturer and examiner in science at Edinburgh and Glasgow, at
leisure intervals in a busy professional life. . . . Dr. Wilson's pages teem with
matter stimulating to a healthy love of science and a reverence for the truths
of nature"— Saturday Review.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Life in London;

or, The History of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian Tom. With the
whole of Cruikshank's Illustrations, in Colours, after the Originals.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lights on the Way :

Some Tales within a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander, Bea.
Edited, with an Explanatory Note, by H. A. Page, Author of
"Thoreau: A Study."

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Longfellow's Complete Prose Works.

Including "Outre Mer," "Hyperion," " Kavanagh," "The Poets
and Poetry of Europe," and "Driftwood." With Portrait and Illustrations
by Valentine Bromley.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Longfellow's Poetical Works.

Carefully Reprinted from the Original Editions. With numerous
fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5*.

Lunatic Asylum, My Experiences in a.

By a Sane Patient.

The story is clever and interesting, sad beyond measure though the subject
It. There is no personal bitterness, and no violence or anger. Whatever may
have been the evidence for our author's madness when he was consigned to an
asylum, nothing can be clearer than his sanity when he wrote this book ; it is
bright, calm, and to the point." — Spectator.

Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page Plates, cloth boards, iS\r.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian verse by Robert French Duff,
Knight Commander of the Portuguese Royal Order of Christ.

Mallock's (W. H.) Works :

Is Life Worth Living P By William Harrel Mallock,

New Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
This deeply interesting volume It is the most powerful vindication
of religion, both natural and revealed, that has appeared since Bishop
Butler wrote, and is much more useful than either the Analogy or the Sermons
of that great divine, as a refutation of the peculiar form assumed by
the infidelity of the present day. . Deeply philosophical as the both

is, there is not a heavy Page in it. The writer is 'possessed? so to speak?
with his great subject, has sounded its depths, surveyed it in all its ex tent t
and brought to bear on it all the resources of a vivid, rich, and impassioned
style, as well as an adequate acquaintance with the science, the philosophy ;
and the literature of the day"— Irish Daily News.
The New Republic ; or, Culture, Faith, and Philosophy in an

English Country House. By W. H. Mallock. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

The New Paul and Virginia ; or, Positivism on an Island. By

W. H. Mallock. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
Poems. By W. H. Mallock. Small 4to, bound in parchment, 8j»
A Romance of the Nineteenth Century. By W. H. Mallock.

Second Edition, with a Preface. Two Vols., crown 8vo, 21 s.

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by :

In the Ardennes. By Katharine S. Macqdotd. With

50 fine Illustrations by Thomas R. Macquoid. Uniform with "Pictures

and Legends." Square 8vo, cloth extra, hay. 6d.

This is another of Mrs. Macquoid's pleasant books of travel, full of useful

\ information, of picturesque descriptions of scenery, and of quaint traditions

respecting the various monuments and ruins which she encounters in her

tour. . . . To such of our readers as are already thinking about the year's

holiday, ive strongly recommend the Perusal of Mrs. Macquoid 's experiences,

The book is well illustrated by Mr. Thomas R. Macquoid." — Graphic.

Pictures and Legends from Normandy and Brittany. By

Katharine S. Macquoid. With numerous Illustrations by Thomas R.
Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth gilt, ior. id.

Through Normandy. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With

90 Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
*' One of the few books which can be read as apiece of literature, whilst at
the same time handy in the knapsack." — British Quarterly Review.

Through Brittany. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With

numerous Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid. Sq. 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d.
The pleasant companionship which Mrs. Ma fu id offers, while wandering
from one point of interest to another, seems io throw a renewed charm-around
each of t-depicted scene " — Morning Post.

Mark Twain's Works :

The Choice Works of Mark Twain. Revised and Corrected

throughout by the Author. With Life, Portrait, and numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, js. td.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. By Mark Twain. With

100 Illustrations. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 7*. 6d. Cheap Edition, illustrated
boards, 2s.

A Pleasure Trip on the Continent of Europe : The Innocents

Abroad, and The New Pilgrim's Progress. By Mark Twain. Post 8vo
illustrated boards, 2s.

An Idle Excursion, and other Sketches. By Mark Twain,

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
The Prince and the Pauper. By Mark Twain. With nearly

200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra-js. 6d. Uniform with " A Tramp
Abroad." [/« the press.

The Innocents Abroad ; or, The New Pilgrim's Progress :

Being some Account of the Steamship " Quaker City's * Pleasure Excursion
to Europe and the Holy Land, with descriptions of Countries, Nations,
Incidents, and Adventures, as they appeared to the Author. With 234
Illustrations. By Mark Twain. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d. Uniform
with "A Tramp Abroad."

A Tramp Abroad. By Mark Twain. With 314 Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
The fun and tenderness of the conception, of which no living man but
Mark Twain is capable, its grace and fantasy and slyness, the wonderful
feeling for animals that is manifest in every line, make of all this episode oj
Jim Baker and his jays a piece oj work that is not only delightful as mere
reading, but also of a high degree of merit as literature. . . . The book is
full of good things, and contains passages and episodes that are equal to the
funniest of those that have gone before"— Athen^l-m

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 2s. 6d.

Madre Natura v. The Moloch of Fashion.

By Luke Limner. With 32 Illustrations by the Author. Fourth
Edition, revised and enlarged.

Handsomely printed in facsimile, price 51.

Magna Charta.

An exact Facsimile of the Original Document in the British Museum,
printed on fine plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2 feet wide, with the
Arms and Seals emblazoned in Gold and Colours.

Post 8vo, cloth limp,

Mayfair Library, The

The New Republic. By W. H.

Mallock.

The New Paul and Virginia.

By W. H. Mallock.

The True History of Joshua

Davidson. By E. Lynn Linton.

Old Stories Re-told. By Walter

Thornbury.

Thoreau : His Life and Aims.

By H. A. Page

By Stream and Sea. By William
Senior.

Jeux esprit. Edited by Henry
S. Leigh.

Juliana. By the Hon. Hugh
Rowley.

More Juliana. By the Hon.
Hugh Rowley.

Puck on Pegasus. By H,
Cholmondeley-Pennell.

The Speeches of Charles

Dickens.

Muses of Mayfair. Edited by
H. Cholmondeley-Pennell.

Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By

Brilliant-Savarin.

The Philosophy of Handwriting.
By Don Felix de Salamanca.


Curiosities of Criticism. By
Henry J. Jennings.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies,

Follies, Frolics. By W. T. Dobson.

Pencil and Palette. By Robert

Kempt.
Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by
W. Davenport Adams.

2s. 6d. per volume.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.

First Series. Containing:
The Wicked World — Pygmalion and
Galatea — Charity — The Princess —
The Palace of Truth — Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing:
Broken Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts
— Dan'l Bruce — Gretchen —
Tom Cobb— The Sorcerer— H. Mss.
Pinafore — The Pirates of Penzance.

Carols of Cockayne. By Henry

S. Leigh.

The Book of Clerical Anecdotes.
By Jacob Haywood.
The Agony Column of "The

Times," from 1800 to 1870. Edited,
with an Introduction, by Alice Clay.

The Cupboard Papers. By

Fin-Bec.
Pastimes and Players. By

Robert Macgregor.
Melancholy Anatomise : A

Popular Abridgment of '* Burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy."

Quips and Quiddities. Selected

by W. Davenport Adams.

Leaves from a Naturalist's
Note-Book. By Andrew Wilson,
F.R.S.E.

The Autocrat of the .
By Oliver Wendell
Holmes. Illustrated by J. Gordon
Thomson.

Balzac's " Comedie Humaine "

and its Author. With Translations
by H. H. Walker.

V 1 Other Volumes are in preparation.

Small 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2s. 6d.

Miller's Physiology for the Young;

Or, The House of Life : Human Physiology, with its Applications to
the Preservation of Health. For use in Classes and Popular Reading.
With numerous Illustrations. By Mrs. F. Fenwick Miller.
"Ah admirable introduction to a subject which all who value health and enjoy
lift should have at their fingers' ends"— Echo.

Milton (J. L.), Works by :

The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise Set of Rules for the

Management of the Skin ; with Directions for Diet, Wines, Soaps, Baths,
&c. By J. L. Milton, Senior Surgeon to St. John's Hospital. Small
8vo, is. ; cloth extra, is. 6d.

The Bath in Diseases of the Skin. Small 8vo, is.; cloth extra,

isf%d.

Square 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, js. 6d,

North Italian Folk.

By Mrs. Coins Carr. Illustrated by RANDOLPH Calcutta

delightful book, of a kind which is far too rare. If anyone wants to realty
know the North Italianfolk, we can honestly advise him to omit the journey, and
read Mrs. Carr* s pages instead. . . Description with Mrs. Carr is a real gift. .
It is rarely that a book is so happily illustrated" — Con temporary Review.

NE W NO Eels.

A NEW NOVEL BY OUIDA.

The Title of which will shortly be announced. 3 vols., crown 8vo.
Something IN THE CITY.

By George Augustus Sala. 3 vols, crown 8vo.
GOD AND THE MAN.

By Robert Buchanan, Author of" The Shadow of the Sword," &c. 3 vols,

crown 8vo. With 11 Illustrations by Fred. Barnard.

THE COMET OF A SEASON.

By Justin McCarthy, Mer, Author of "Miss Misanthrope." 3 vols',
crown 8vo.

JOSEPH'S COAT.

By David Christie Murray, Author of "A Life's Atonement," &c. With
12 Illustrations by Fred. Barnard.

PRINCE SARONI's WIFE, and other Stories.

By Julian Hawthorne. 3 vols., crown 8vo.
A HEART'S PROBLEM.

By Charles Gibbon, Author of " Robin Gray," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo.
THE BRIDE'S PASS.

By Sarah Tatler, 2 vols., crown 8vo.

BOO AS PUBLISHED BY

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Vignette Portraits, price 6j. per Vol.

Old Dramatists, The:

Ben Jonson's Works.

With Notes, Critical and Explanatory,
and a Biographical Memoir by William
Gifford. Edited by Colonel
Cunningham. Three Vols,

Chapman's Works.

Now First Collected. Complete in
Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the Plays
complete, including the doubtful ones;
Vol. II. the Poems and Minor Translations,
with an Introductory Essay

by Algernon Charles Swinburne.
Vol. III. the Translations of the Iliad
and Odyssey.

Marlowe's Works.

Including his Translations. Edited,
with Notes and Introduction, by Col.
Cunningham. One Vol.

Massinger's Plays.

From the Text of William Gifford.
With the addition of the Tragedy of
Believe as you List." Edited by
Col. Cunningham. One Vol.

O'Shaughnessy (Arthur) Works by:

Songs of a Worker. By Arthur O'Shaughnessy. Fcap.

8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Music and Moonlight. By Arthur O'Shaughnessy. Fcap.

8vo, cloth extra, 7J. 6d.

Lays of France. By Arthur O'Shaughnessy. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, ioj. 6d.

Crown 8vo, red cloth extra, 5*. each.

Ouida's Novels.— Library Edition.

Held in Bondage. By Ouida.

Stratford. By Ouida.

Chances. By Ouida.

Under Two Flags* By Ouida.

Italia. By Ouida.

Cecil Oa3tlemaine. By Ouida.

Tricotrin. By Ouida.

Puck. By Ouida.

File Farine. By Ouida.

Dog of Flanders. By Ouida.

%* Also a Cheap Edition of all but
boards, 2s. each.

Pascal. By Ouida.

Two Wooden Shoes. By Ouida.

Signa.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

By Ouida.
By Ouida.
By Ouida.
By Ouida.
By Ouida.
By Ouida.

A Village Commune. By Ouida.
the last two, post 8vo, illustrated

Post 8vo, cloth limp, is. 6d.

Parliamentary Procedure, A Popular Handbook
of. By Henry W. Lucy.

Large 4to, cloth extra, gilt, beautifully Illustrated, 31J. 6d:

Pastoral Da3/s ;

Or, Memories of a New England Year. By W. Hamilton Gibson.

With 76 Illustrations in the highest style of Wood Engraving.
The volume contains a prose poem, with illustrations in the shape of wood
engravings more beautiful than it can well enter into the Hearts of most men to
conceive. "scotsman.



Library Editions, mostly Illustrated, crown 8vo, cloth extra, y. 6d. each.

Piccadilly Novels, The.

Popular gtavizi fcj? fyt Betft 8utl)0rtf,

Maid, Wife, or Widow ?

Mrs. Alexander.
Ready-money Mortiboy.
W. Besant and James Rice.

My Little Girl. By W. Besant

and James Rice.

The Case of Mr. Craft. By

W. Besant and James Rice.

This Son of Vulcan. By W.

Besant and James Rice.
With Harp and Crown

Besant and James Rice.
The Golden Butterfly.

Besant and James Rice.
By Celia's Arbour.

Besant and James Rice.
The Monk of Helena.

W. Besant and James Rice.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.

W. Besant and James Rice.

The Seamy Side. By Walter

Besant and James Rice.

Antonio. By Wilkie Collins.
Basil. By Wilkie Collins.
Hide and Seek. W. Collins.
The Dead Secret W. Collins
Queen of Hearts,
My Miscellanies.
The Woman in \

Wilkie Collins

The Moonstone. W. Collins
Man and Wife. W. Collins.
Poor Miss Finch. W. Collins.

By
By

By W.

By W.

By W.

By

By

W. Collins, j

W. Collins, j

By 1

Juliet's Guardian. By Mrs. H.

Lovett Cameron.
Felicia. M. Bentham-Edwards.
Olympia. By R. E. Francillon.
The Capet Girls. By Edward

Garrett.

Robin Gray. Charles Gibbon.
For Lack of Gold. By Charles

Gibbon.

In Love and War. By Charles

Gibbon.
What wil the World Say ? By
Charles Gibbon.

For the King. Charles Gibbon.
In Honour Bound. By Charles

Gibbon.

Queen of the Meadow. By

Charles Gibbon.

In Pastures Green. By Charles

Gibbon.

Under the Greenwood Tree.

By Thomas Hard.

Garth. By Julian Hawthorne.
Eliice Question. By Julian

Hawthorne.

Thornicroft's Model. By Mrs.

A. W. Hunt.
Fated to be Free. By Jean

Angelo.

Confidence. Henry James, Jun.
The Queen of Connaught. By

Harriet Jay.
Th Dark Colleen. By H. Jay.

Miss or Mrs. ? By W. Collins, i Number Seventeen. By Henry

The New Magdalen. ByWiLKiE ! K , IN ^ SL * Y - ,. „ Vfl „, eTW
Collins. i Oakshott Castle. H. Kingsley.

Collins.

The Frozen Deep. W. Collins.
The Law and the Lady. By
Wilkie Collins*

The Two Destinies. By Wilkie

Collins.
The Haunted Hotel. By Wilkie
Collins.

The Fallen Leaves. By Wilkie

Collins.

Jezebel's Daughter. W. Collins.
Deceivers Ever. By Mrs. H.
Lovett Cameron.

Oakshott

Patricia Kimball. By E. Lynn
Linton.

The Atonement of Learn Dundas.
By E. Lynn Linton.

Tae World Well Lost. By E.
Lynn Linton.

Under which Lord? By E.

Lynn Linton.

With a Silken Thread. By E.

Lynn Linton.
The Watergate Neighbours.

By Justin McCarthy.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels — continued.
My Enemy's Daughter. By

Justin McCarthy.
Linley Rochford. By Justin

McCarthy.
A Fair Saxon. J. McCarthy.
Dear Lady Disdain. By Justin

McCarthy.

Miss Misanthrope. By Justin

McCarthy.
Donna Quixote. J. McCarthy.
Quaker Cousins. By Agnes

Macdonald.

Lost Rose. By Katharine S.

Macquoid.

The Evil Eye. By Katharine

S. Macquoid.

Open ! Sesame ! By Florence

Marryat.

Written in Fire. F. Marryat.
Touch and Go. By Jean Middlemost.



A Life's Atonement. By D.

Christie Murray.

Whiteladies. Mrs. OliphAnt.
The Best of Husbands. By
James Payn.

NEW VOLUMES OF " THE

Put Yourself in his Place. By \

Charles Reade.
A Confidential Agent. By

James Payn. With 12 Illustrations.

The Violin-Player. By Bertha ;

Thomas.

Queen Cophetua. By R. E.

Francillon.

The Leaden Casket. By Mrs.

Alfred Hunt.
Carlton's Fear. By J. Payn.
The Ten Years' Tenant, and

other Stories. By Walter Besant [
and James Rice.

A Child of Nature. By Robert

Buchanan.

Cressida. By Bertha Thomas.
From Exile. By James Payn. I

Fallen Fortunes. James Payn.
Halves. By James Payn.
Walter's Word. James Payn.
What He Cost Her. J. Payn.
Less Black than we're Painted.

By James Payn.

By Proxy. By James Payn.
Under One Roof. James Payn.
High Spirits. By James Payn.
Her Mother's Darling. By Mrs.

J. H. RlDDELL.

Bound to the Wheel. By John

Saunders.

Guy Waterman. J. Saunders
One Against the World.

John Saunders.

The Lion in the Path.

John Saunders.

The Way We Live Now.

Anthony Trollops.

The American Senator.

Anthony Trollope.
Diamond Cut Diamond. By

T. A. Trollope.

PICCADILLY NOVELS."

Sebastian Stroke. By Julian

Hawthorne.
The Black Robe. By Wilkie

Collins.
Archie Lovell. By Mrs. Annie

Edwards.

"My Love!" By E. Lynn

Linton.

Lost Sir Massinger. By James

Payn.
The Chaplain of the Fleet. By

Walter Besant and James Rice.
Proud Maisie. By Bertha

Thomas.

The Two Dreamers. By John

Saunders.

What She Came through. By

Sarah Tatler.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Planche.— Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879.

By J. R. Planche. Edited, with an Introduction, by his Daughter,

Mrs. Backwardness.



Post 8vo, illustrated boards, zs. each.

Popular Novels, Cheap Editions of.

[Wilkie Collins' Novels and Bksant and Rick's Novels may also be had in
cloth limp at 2s. 6d. See, too, the Piccadilly Novels, for Library Editions.]

Confidences. Hamilton A'i'de\
Carr of Carrion. H. Aide.
Maid, Wife, or Widow P By

Mrs. Alexander.

Ready-money Mortiboy. By

Walter Besant and James Rice.

With Harp and Crown. By

Walter Besant and James Rice

This Son of Vulcan. By W.

Besant and James Rice.
My Little Girl. By the same.
The Case of Mr. Craft. By

Walter Besant and James Rice.

The Golden Butterfly. By W.

Besant and James Rice.

By Celia's Arbour. By Walter

Besant and James Rice.

The Monks of Helena. By

Walter Besant and James Rice.

'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay. By

Walter Besant and James Rice.
Seamy Side. Besant and Rice.
Grantly Grange. By Shelley

Beauchamp.
An Heiress of Red Dog. By

Bret Harte.

The Luck of Roaring Camp.

By Bret Harte.

Gabriel Convoy. Bret Harte.
Surly Tim. By F. E. Burnett.
Deceivers Ever. By Mrs. L.

Cameron.
Juliet's Guardian. By Mrs.

Lovett Cameron.

The Cure of Souls. By Mac-laden

Cobban.
The Bar Sinister. By C.

Allusion Collins.

Antonio. By Wilkie Collins.
Basil. By Wilkie Collins.
Hide and Seek. W. Collins.
The Dead Secret. W. Collins.
Queen of Hearts. W. Collins.
My Miscellanies. W. Collins.
Woman in White. Collins.
The Moonstone. W. Collins.

Man and Wife. W. Collins.
Poor Miss Finch. W. Collins.
Miss or Mrs. P W. Collins.
New Magdalen. W. Collins.
The Frozen Deep. W. Collins.
Law and the Lady. Collins.
Two Destinies. W. Collins.
Haunted Hotel. W. Collins.
Fallen Leaves. By Collins.
Leo. ByDuTTON Cook.
A Point of Honour. By Mrs.
Annie Edwards.

ArchieLovell. Mrs. Edwards

Felicia. M. Bentham-Ed wards.

Roxy. By Edward Eggleston.

Polly. By Percy Fitzgerald.

Bella Donna. P. Fitzgerald.
I Never Forgotten. Fitzgerald.
I The Second Mrs. Tillotson. By

Percy Fitzgerald.

Seventy-FiveBrookeStreet. By

Percy Fitzgerald.

Filthy Lucre. By Albany de

FONBLANQUE.

i Olympia. By R. E. Francillon.
The Capet Girls. By Edward

Garrett.
Robin Gray. By Chas. Gibbon.
For Lack of Gold. C. Gibbon.
What will the World Say P By

Charles Gibbon.
In Honour Bound. C. Gibbon.
The Dead Heart. By C. Gibbon.
In Love and War. C. Gibbon.
For the King. By C. Gibbon.
Queen of the Meadow. By

Charles Gibbon.

Dick Temple. By James

Greenwood.

Every-day Papers. By Andrew

Holiday.

Paul Winter's Sacrifice. By

Lady Dcffus Hardy.

Under the Greenwood Tree.
By Thomas Hardy.

Popular Novels — continued.

Garth. By Julian Hawthorne.
Golden Heart. By Tom Hood.
TheHunchbaek of Notre Dame.

By Victor Hugo.
Thornicroft's Model. By Mrs.

Alfred Hunt.

Fated to be Free. By Jean

Angelo.
Confidence. By Henry James,

Jun.

The Queen of Connaught. By

Harriet Jay.

The Dark Colleen. By H. Jay.
Number Seventeen. By Hens y

Kingsley.

Oakshott Castle. Kingsley.
Patricia Kimball. By E. Lynn

Linton.
Learn Dundas. E.LynnLinton.
The World Well Lest. By E.

Lynn Linton.
Under which Lord ? By E.

Lynn Linton.

The Watergate Neighbours.

By Justin McCarthy.

Dear LadyDisdain. By the same.
My Enemy's Daughter. By

Justin McCarthy.
A Fair Saxon. J. McCarthy.
Linley Rochford. McCarthy.
Miss Misanthrope. McCarthy.
Donna Quixote. J. McCarthy.
The Evil Eye. By Katharine

S. Macquoid.
Lost Rose. K. S. Macquoid.
Open! Sesame! By Florence

Harvest of Wild Oats. By

Florence Marryat.

A Little Stepson. F. Marryat.
Fighting the Air. F. Marryat.
Touch and Go. By Jean

MlDDLEMASS.

Mr. Dorillion. J. Middlemost.
Whiteladies. ByMrs.OLiPHANT.
Held in Bondage. By Ouida.
Stratford. By Ouida.
Chances. By Ouida.
Under Two Flags. By Ouida,
Italia. By Ouida.

Cecil Castlemaine. By Ouida,
Trieotrin. By Ouida.
Puck. By Ouida.
Folle Farine. By Ouida.
A Dog of Flanders. By Ouida.
Pascal. By Ouida.
Two Little Wooden Shoes. By
Signa. By Ouida. [Ouida.

In a Winter City. By Ouida.
Ariadne. By Ouida.
Friendship. By Ouida.
Moths. By Ouida.
Lost Sir Massinger. J. Payn.
A Perfect Treasure. J. Payn.
Bentinck's Tutor. By J. Payn.
Murphy's Master. By J. Payn.
A County Family. By J. Payn.
At Her Mercy. By J. Payn.
AWoman'sVecgeance. J. Payn.
Cecil's Tryst. By James Payn.
The Clyffards of Clyffe. J.Payn.
Family Scapegrace. J. Payn.
The Foster Brothers. J. Payn.
Found Dead. By James Payn.
Gwendoline'sHarvest. J.Payn.
Humorous Stories. J. Payn.
Like Father, Like Son. J.Payn.
A Marine Residence. J. Payn.
Married Beneath Him. J.Payn.
Mirk Abbey. By James Payn.
Not Wooed,, but Won. J. Payn.
Two Hundred Pounds Reward.

By James Payn.

Best of Husbands. By J. Payn.
Walter's Word. By J. Payn.
Halves. By James Payn.
Fallen Fortunes. By J. Payn.
What He Cost Her. J. Payn.
Less Black than We're Painted.

By James Payn.

By Proxy. By James Payn.
Under One Roof. By J. Payn.
High Spirits. By J as. Payn.
Paul Ferrol.

Why P. Ferrol Killed his Wife.
The Mystery of Marie Roget.

By Edgar A. Pob.

popular Novels — continued.
Put Yourself in his Place By I Tales for the Marines. By

Charles Shade.
Her Mother's Darling. By Mrs.

J. H. RlDDELL.

Gaslight and Daylight. By

George Augustus Sala.

Bound to the Wheal. By John

Saunders.

O-uy Waterman. J. Saunders.
One Against the World. By

John Saunders.
The Lion in tie Path. By John

and Katherine Saunders.

Walter Thornbury.

The Way we Live Now. By

Anthony Trollope.

The American Senator. Ditto.
Diamond Cut Diamond. Ditto.
A Pleasure Trip in Europe.

By Mark Twain.

Tom Sawyer. By Mark Twain.
An Idle Excursion. Twain.
Sabina. By Lady Wood.
Castaway. By Edmund Yates.

A Match in the Dark. By A. Forlorn Hope. Edmund Yates.
Sketches. Land at Last. Edmund Yates.

Fcap. 8vo, picture covers, u. each.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret Harte.
The Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harte.
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By Julian Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavourneen. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Lindsay's Luck. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Trooping with Crow. By Mrs. Pirkis.

The Professor's Wife. By Leonard Graham.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Payn.— Some Private Views.

Being Essays contributed to The Nineteenth Century and to The
Times. B/ James Payn. Author of " High Spirits," " By Proxy,"
Lost Sir Massmgberd," &c. [Nearly ready.

Two Vols. 8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, ioj. 6d.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious Men.

Translated from the Greek, with Notes, Critical and Historical, and a
Life of Plutarch, by John and William Langhorne.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Portrait and Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Poe's Choice Prose and Poetical Works,

With Baudelaire's " Essay." -

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Primitive Manners and Customs.

By James A. Farrer.

Small 8vo, cloth extra, with 130 Illustrations, y. 6d.

Prince of Argolis, The :

A Story y of the Old G reek Fairy Time. By J. Moyr Smith.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Pursuivant of Arms, The ;

or, Heraldry founded upon Facts. By J. R. Planche, somerset
Herald. With Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations.

Proctor's (E. A.) Works:

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps for Every Night in the

Year, Drawings of the Constellations, &c. By Richard A. Proctor.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Science Studies. By Richard A. Proctor. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. ■ \ In the press,

Saturn and its System. By Richard A. Proctor. New and

Revised Edition, demy 8vo, cloth extra, ios. 6d. [In preparation.

Myths and Marvels of Astronomy. By Rich. A. Proctor,

Author of "Other Worlds than Ours,"&c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Pleasant Ways in Science. By R. A. Proctor. Cr.8vo,cl.ex.6j.
Rough Ways made Smooth : A Series of Familiar Essays on

Scientific Subjects. By R. A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Our Place among Infinities : A Series of Essays contrasting

our Little Abode in Space and Time with the Infinities Around us. By
Richard A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

The Expanse of Heaven : A Series of Essays on the Wonders

of the Firmament. By Richard A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s.

Wages and Wants of Science Workers. By Richard A.

Proctor. Cmwn 8vo, is. 6d.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Rabelais' Works.

Faithfully Translated from the French, with variorum Notes, and
numerous characteristic Illustrations by Gustavus Dor.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, with numerous Illustrations, and a beautifully
executed Chart of the various Spectra, js. 6d.

Rambosson's Popular Astronomy.

Rambosson, Laureate of the Institute of France. Translated
B. Pitman. Profusely Illustrated.

Second Edition, Revised, Crown 8vo, 1,200 pages, half-roxburgh, 12s. 6d.

Reader's Handbook (The) of Allusions, References,
Plots, and Stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Richardson's (Dr.) A Ministry of Health,

and other Papers. By Benjamin Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Our Old Country Towns. With over 50 Illustrations. By

Alfred Rimmer. Square 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, ios. 6d.

Rambles Round Eton and Harrow. By Alfred Rimmer.

With 50 Illustrations by the Author. Square 8vo, cloth gilt, ios. 6d.

About England with Dickens. With Illustrations by Alfred
Rimmer and C. A. Vanderhoof, Sq. 8vo, cloth gilt, icy. 6d. [In the press.

Handsomely printed, price 5*.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The ;

or, A List of the Principal Warriors who came over from Normandy
with William the Conqueror, and Settled in this Country, A.D. 1066-7.
With the principal Arms emblazoned in Gold and Colours.

By J.
byC.

Two Vols., large 4to, profusely Illustrated, half-morocco, £2 16s.

Rowlandson, the Caricaturist.

A Selection from his Works, with Anecdotal Descriptions of his Famous
Caricatures, and a Sketch of his Life, Time's, and Contemporaries.
With nearly 400 Illustrations, mostly in Facsimile of the Originals. By
Joseph Greg, Author of "James Gillray, the Caricaturist; his Life,
Works, and Times."

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated, 4s. 6d. each,

Secret Out" Series, The.

The Pyrotechnist's Treasury ; Magician's Own Book :

or, Complete Art of Making Fire Performances with Cups and Balls,

Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from Actual Experience. Edited by
W. H. Cremhr. 200 Illustrations.

Magic No Mystery :

Tricks with Cards, Dice, Balls, &c,
with folly descriptive Directions ; the
Art of Secret Writing ; Training 0/
Perfoitsiag Animals, &c. Coloured
Frontispiece and many Illustrations.

The Secret Out :

One Thousand Tricks with Cards, and
other Recreations ; with Entertaining
Experiments in Drawing-room or

works. By Thomas Kentish. With
numerous Illustrations.

The Art of Amusing :

A Collection of Graceful Arts, Games,
Tricks, Puzzles, and Charades. By
Frank Belleww. 300 Illustrations.
Hanky-Panky :

Very Easy Tricks, Very Difficult
Tricks, White Magic, Sleight of Hand.
Edited by W.H.Cremer. 200 Lusts.

The Merry Circle :

A Book of New Intellectual Games

and Amusements. By Clara Belleww. ! "White Magic." By W. H.Crbmer.
Many Illustrations. 3°° Engravings.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Senior's Travel and Trout in the Antipodes.

An Angler's Sketches in Tasmania and New Zealand. By WILLIAM
Senior (red Spinner), Author of " By Stream and Sea."

Shakespeare :

Shakespeare, The First Folio. Mr. William Shakespeare's

Comedies, Histories, and Tragedies. Published according to the true
Original Copies. London, Printed by Isaac Haggard and Ed. Blunt,
1623. — A Reproduction of the extremely rare original, in reduced facsimile
by a photographic process— ensuring the strictest accuracy in every detail.
Small svo, half-roxburgh, js. td.

Shakespeare, The Vanstone. Beautifully printed in red

and black, in small but very clear type. With engraved facsimile of
Droeshout's Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7*. 6V.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales from Shakespeare. By

Charles and Mary Lamb. With numerous Illustrations, coloured and
plain, by J. Moyr Smith. Crown 410, cloth gilt, ios.6d.
Shakespeare Music, The Handbook of. Being an Account

350 Pieces of Music, set to Words taken from the Plays and Poems of
Shakespeare, the compositions ranging from the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time. By Alfred Rosse. 4to, half-roxburgh, 7s.

Shakespeare, A Study of. By Algernon Charles Sin

E'Jrnb. Crown Svo, cloth extra, Ss.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page Tinted Illustrations, js, 6d,

Sheridan's Complete Works,

with Life and Anecdotes. Including his Dramatic Writings, printed
from the Original Editions, his Works in Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches*, Jokes, Puns. &c. ; with a Collection of Sheridaniana.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with hoo Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Signboards ;

Their History. With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns and Remarkable
"Characters. By Jacob Haywood and John Camden Rotten.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s, 6d.

Slang Dictionary, The :

Etymological, Historical, and Anecdotal. An Entirely New
Edition , revised throughout, and considerably Enlarged.

Exquisitely printed in miniature, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2s. 6d.

Smoker's Text-book, The. By j. Homer, f.r.S.L,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5*.

Spalding's Elizabethan Demonology :

An Essay in Illustration of the Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the Powers possessed by them. By T. Alfred Spalding, LL.B.

Crown 4to, uniform with "Chaucer for Children," with Coloured
Illustrations, cloth gilt, ioj. 6d.

Spenser for Children.

By M. H. Tory. Illustrations in Colours by Walter J. Morgan.
A New Edition, small crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5J.

Staunton.— Laws and Practice of Chess ;

Together with an Analysis of the Openings, and a Treatise on End
Games. By Howard Staunton. Edited by Robert B. World .

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gs.

Seaman's Victorian Poets :

Critical Essays. By Edmund Clarence Seaman.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, 55.

Stories about Number Nip,

The Spirit of the Giant Mountains. Retold for Children, by WALTER
Grahame. With Illustrations by J . Moyr Smith.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, histories

from the State Papers,

By Alex. Charles Ewald, F.S.A., Author of " The Life of Prince
Charles Stuart," &c. With an Autotype Facsimile.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, with numerous Portraits and Illustrations, 24s.

Strain .— Twenty Years of a Publisher's

Life. By Alexander Astrachan. [In the press.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 75. 6d.

Struts's Sports and Pastimes of the People

of England ; including the Rural and Domestic Recreations, May
Games, Mummers, Shows, Processions, Pageants, and Pompous
Spectacles, from the Earliest Period to the Present Time. With 140
Illustrations. Edited by William Hone.

Crown 8vo, with a Map of Suburban London, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Suburban Homes (The) of London :

A Residential Guide to Favourite London Localities, their Society ,
Celebrities, and Associations. With Notes on their Rental, Rates,
and House Accommodation.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Swift's Choice Works,

In Prose and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait, and Facsimiles of the
Maps in the Original Edition of "Tulliver's Travels."

Swinburne's Works :

The Queen Mother and Rosa I Bothwell :

mont. Fcap. Svo, 5s. A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d.

Atlanta in Corydon. i George Chapman :

A New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6*. ! „** Esse y- m Crown 8vo » 7*.

Chastened. S ° nga °J * wo Nations.

£ : , r, Crown 8vo, 6s.

A Tragedy Crown 8vo, 7 M. B and gtudleSi

Poems and Ballads. Crown 8vo Inst

First Series. Fcap. Svo, gs. Also ! ErechtheUS :
in crown Svo, at same price. A Tragedy Crown 8vo 6j<

Poems and Ballads. : Note of an English Republican

Second Series. Fcap. 8vo, gs. Also j on t he Muscovite Crusade. 8vo, x*.
in crown Svo, at same price. A Note on Charlotte Bronze,

Notes on "Poems and Bal I Crown 8vo, 6s.
lads." 8vo, ix. A Study of Shakespeare.

William Blake : Crown 8vo, 8x.

A Critical Essay. With Facsimile j SongS Of the Springtide. Cr.
Paintings. Demy 8vo, i6j. 8vo, 6s.

Songs before Sunrise. Studies in Song.

Crown 8vo, ioj. 6d. ' Crown 8vo-js.

MR. SWINBURNE'S NEW DRAMA.— Crown Svo, cloth extra, ?s.

Mary Stuart : A Tragedy, in Five Acts. By Algernon Charles

Swinburne. [ In the press.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, au.

Sword, The Book of the :

Being a History of the Sword, and its Use, in all Times and in all
Countries. By Captain Richard Burton. With numerous Illustrations.

[In preparation.

Medium 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours,

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search of Consolation, and in Search
of a Wife. With the whole of ROWLANDSON'S droll page illustrations,
in Colours, and Life of the Author by J. C. Rotten.

Four Vols, small 8vo, cloth boards, 30J.

Taine's History of English Literature.

Translated by Henry Van Lain.
%* Also a Popular Edition, in Two Vols, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 15J.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, profusely Illustrated, 6s.

Tales of Old Thule.

Collected and Illustrated by J. Moyr Smith.

One Vol. crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical Dramas:

Chancery," "Jeanne Dare," " 'Twixt Axe and Crown," "The Fool's
Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife," " Anne Boleyn," " Plot and Passion**
The Plays may also bo had separately, at Is. each.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Coloured Frontispiece and numerous
Illustrations, js. 6d.

Thackerayana :

Notes and Anecdotes. Illustrated by a profusion of Sketches by
William Makepeace Thackeray, depicting Humorous Incidents
in his School-life, and Favourite Characters in the books of his everyday
reading. With Hundreds of Wood Engravings, facsimile from
Mr. Thackeray's Original Drawings.'

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Thomson's Seasons and Castle of Indolence.

With a Biographical and Critical Introduction by Allan Cunningham,
and over 50 fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, js. 6d.

Thornbury's (Walter) Haunted London.

A New Edition, Edited by Edward Walford, M.A., with numerous
Illustrations by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Timbs' Clubs and Club Life in London.

With Anecdotes of its famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries, and Taverns.
By John Timbs, F.S.A. With numerous Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Timbs' English Eccentrics and Eccentricities*.
Stories of Wealth and Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folks, Men of Letters, &c. By John Timbs,
F.S.A. With nearly 50 Illustrations.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 14J.

Torrens' The Marquess Wellesley,

Architect of Empire. An Historic Portrait. Forming Vol. I. of Proconsul
and Tribune: Wellesley and O'Connell : History
Portraits. By W. M. TORRENS, M.P. In Two Vols.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, gs.

Tunis : the Land and the People.

By Ernst von Hesse Wartegg. With many fine full-page Illustrations.
[In the press,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Coloured Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Turner's (J. M. W.) Life and Correspondence:

Founded upon Letters and Papers furnished by his Friends and fellow-academicians.
By Walter Thornbury. A New Edition, considerably
Enlarged. With numerous Illustrations in Colours, facsimile
from Turner's original Drawings.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Map and Ground Plans, 14s.

Walcott's Church Work and Life in English

Minsters ; and the English Student's Monastic. By the Rev.
Mckenzie E. C. Walcott, Bed.

Large crown 8vo, cloth antique, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Walton and Cotton's Complete Angler;

or, The Contemplative Man's Recreation : being a Discourse of Rivers,
Fishponds, Fish and Fishing, written by Izaak Walton ; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or Grayling in a clear Stream, by
Charles Cotton. With Original Memoirs and Notes by Sir Harris
Nicholas, and 61 Copperplate Illustrations.
The Twenty-second Annual Edition, for 1881, cloth, full gilt, 50J.

Walford's County Families of the United

Kingdom. By Edward Walford, M. A. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education, &c, of more than 12,000
distinguished Heads of Families, their Heirs Apparent or Presumptive,
the Offices they hold or have held, their Town and Country Addresses,
Clubs, &c.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3*. 6d. per volume.

Wanderer's Library, The :

Merrier England in the Olden , Low-life Deeps. An Account

Time. By George Daniel. With | of the Strange Fish to be found there.

Illustrations by Root. Cruikshank. ' By James Greenwood.
The Old Showmen and the Old Seven Generations of Execu-

London Fairs. By Thomas Frost. tones : Memoirs of the Samson

The WildS Of London. By • Family (1688 to 1847). Edited by

James Greenwood. Henry Samson.

TavernAnecdotes and Sayings ; The World Behind the Scenes.

Including the Origin of Signs, and , B y Per cy Fitzgerald.

Reminiscences connected with London Characters. By Henry

Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c. Mathew. Illustrated.

By Charles Handley. With niusts. The Genial Showman: Life

CirCUS Life and CirCUS Celebrated Adventures of Artemus Ward,

ties. By Thomas Frost. By E. P. Kingston. Frontispiece.

The Lives of the Conjurers. Wanderings in Patagonia ; or,

By Thomas Frost. Life amon? the Ostrich Hunters. By

The Life and Adventures of a , Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated.
Cheap Jack. By One of the Frater Summer Cruising in the South

city. Edited by Charles Handley. Seas. By Charles Warren Soothe

Story of the London Parks. dard. Illustrated by Wallis 

Jacob Haywood. With Illusts. KAY -

Warrant to Execute Charles I.

An exact Facsimile of this important Document, .with the Fifty-nine
Signatures of the Regicides, and corresponding Seals.

Beautifully printed on paper to imitate the Original MS., price zs.

Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of Scots.

An exact Facsimile, including the Signature of Queen Elizabeth, and a
Facsimile of the Great Seal.

Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with numerous Illustrations , 4s. 6d.

Westropp's Handbook of Pottery and Porcelain
; or, History of those Arts from the Earliest Period. By Fodder
M. Westropp. With numerous Illustrations, and a List of Marks.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

What shall my Bon be P

Hints for Parents on the Choice of a Profession or Trade for their
Sons. By Francis Covenant, M.A.

Seventh Edition. Square 8vo, is.

Whistler v. Ruskin : Art and Art Critics.

By J. A. Macneill Whistler.
A VERY HANDSOME Volume Large 410, cloth extra, 31X 6d.

White Mountains (The Heart of the) :

Their Legend and Scenery. By Samuel Adams Drake. With
nearly 100 Illustrations by W. Hamilton Gibson, Author of
Pastoral Days." [Nearly ready.

Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2s. 6d.

Williams' A Simple Treatise on Heat.

By W. Mattie Williams, F.R.A.S., F.C.S.

Small 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 6s.

Wooing (The) of the Water-Witch :

A Northern Oddity. By Evan Daldorne. Illust.byJ. Moyr Smith.
Crown 8vo, half-bound, 12s. 6d.

Words, Facts, and Phrases :

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and Out-of-the-way Matters. By
Else ser Edwards.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Wright's Caricature History of the Georges.

(The House of Hanover.) With 400 Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs,
Broadsides , Window Pictures, &c. By Thomas Wright, M.A., F.S.A.

I Vge post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Wright's History of Caricature and of the

Grotesque in Art, Literature, Sculpture, and Painting. By Thomas
Wright, F.S.A. Profusely Illustrated by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A.

J. OGDEN AND CO., PRINTERS, I72, ST, JOHN STREET, B.C.

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

3 0112 052944516

ESBBsSn

Bp

1 B-

■ ■

ZBp

B9BP'

ami

9n
