Weaker VESSEL

BY

D. CHRISTIE MURRx-\Y

AUTHOR OF 'Joseph's coat,' ' rainbow gold,' ' aunt rachel.' etc.

IX THREE VOLS.
VOL. L

Control
MACMILLAN AND CO.

AND NEW YORK


All rights reserved

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/weakervessel01murr

CHAPTER I

George Dolmer Delamere, Esq., being

advertised to lecture in the Athenaeum Hall

Bondage Road, Houndsditch, under the

auspices of the Moral Tone Association, I

paid my threepence, secured thereby a right

of entry to the reserved seats, and went in to

listen. I was at this time an idle man (not, I

'^ think, from any fault of mine), and anxious

'^ to find some business which should bring in

;^ butter for that necessary daily loaf which was

a already provided for me by a kindly fortune.

-^ In the hope that I might one day find a

^ literary use for the knowledge I was picking

sup by bits and scraps, I had devoted myself

^ for some months to the study of life and

<^ VOL. I B

manners in various corners of London, and
was in the habit of making enthusiastic and
copious notes. George Dolmer Delamere,
Esq., was known to me as to almost everybody
by name, and the doings of the Moral
Tone Association had been trumpeted in the
newspapers of late.

I sat down and waited in a waste little
room, and had ample time to look about me.
There were thirty or forty people already
present, and at intervals of a minute or so a
new-comer would appear, smoothing his hair
furtively, and creaking to a seat on tiptoe, as
though he were afraid of awaking the echoes.
People coughed apologetically and shuffled
their feet, and sat apart from one another.
The place and everybody in it had an air of
penance, and, so far as one might judge from
appearances, the Gospel of the Moral Tone
was not gay or popular. The audience was
made up mainly of youngish men, most of
whom looked thoughtful and earnest. They
were ill at ease because they were not used

to society, and they were evidently anxious
to observe and evidently anxious to be unobserved.


When we had sat in a shuffling and uneasy
silence for a quarter of an hour, a dapper
man opened a door at the back of the room
and looked in. The scattered assembly applauded,
and the dapper man disappeared ;
but a few minutes later returned at the head
of a string of ladies and gentlemen who, in
accompaniment to a dropping fire of hand-clapping,
advanced to a low platform and
took their seats upon it. The leader took
his place at a red-clad table in the centre,
and at his right sat a gentleman whose very
aspect was a lesson in tone. He was tall and
slender and stately, and he condescended
from his crown to his heels in every attitude
and movement. His face was refined and
capable, and he smiled in a complex way,
which expressed curiosity, and affable pity,
and a profound allowance all at once. He
had a tall, bald forehead ; silky white hair,

rather unusually long ; long narrow hands of
extraordinary whiteness and delicacy ; and a
mouth which, in the intervals of his smile,
looked a trifle peevish and disappointed. He
was in evening dress, and would have looked
remarkable and distinguished anywhere.
Here he was as remarkable as a stag in a
herd of cart-horses. I supposed this gentleman
to be George Dolmer Delamere, Esq.,
and the dapper man in the chair confirmed
my supposition by his introductory speech.

Mr. Delamere, he told us, was a gentleman
who had always taken the deepest interest
in art. He was known in the highest artistic
circles, as everybody knew ; and his delicate
taste and profound knowledge had secured
for him a position unique in the artistic
world. He was warmly interested also in
the condition of the people, and the Moral
Tone Association had been so fortunate as to
enlist his invaluable sympathy and support.
The dapper man would no longer detain us
from the intellectual treat in store. Mr.

Dolmer Delamere would deliver to us an
address on the Line of Beauty.

Mr. Delamere arose and began to talk
without preface in a gentle and persuasive
voice, which carried conviction of high
breeding in every tone of it. A great blackboard
on a wheeled stand was placed upon
the platform, with a clean napkin hanging
over it, and a number of pieces of white
chalk scattered on a rest below it. Whilst
he talked he took down the napkin and
polished the black board, as only an accomplished
critic and a gentleman could polish a
black board. By way of preliminary, he told
us in his soft persuasive voice that the only
fashion of manfully facing the future was to
convince ourselves that the past was dead.
The creeds in which the human race had
been cradled were dead and done with. The
religious go-carts in which humanity had
toddled for centuries were broken, and there
was not the faintest little hope of mending
them. That hope of a hereafter, with which

benevolent cheats or misguided enthusiasts
had beguiled the poor and suffering, was
finally extinguished. There was but one
life to live, and it must be made the best of.
To make the best of it, it was necessary to
redeem it from ugliness. Ugliness, whether
material or moral, was a crime which created
its own punishment — a crime infectious as
measles. Everybody suffered from it, and
almost everybody actively propagated it.
He proposed to offer a slight — a very slight
reactionary dose that evening. He would
do his humble best to show us what beauty
was and what it was not. When everything
was beautiful and everybody had caught the
prevailing sentiment of things, everybody
would be good and everybody would be
happy, because beauty and goodness and
happiness were interchangeable terms. He
put all this lightly, gracefully, in well-chosen,
striking, and clear words, so that nobody
could fail to understand him ; and then, with
a rare purity of line and certainty of hand,

he began to draw upon the black board.
He showed us architectural lines which were
ugly and architectural lines which were beautiful
; and he drew for us curves of all kinds,
talking without pause the while, and interesting
everybody present. Then in a while he
mounted to the human face, and drew a
plain but not unprepossessing countenance in
three-quarters. He pointed out to us how
plain it was, and by the side of it drew
another face, unmistakably the same, and yet
pleasant to look upon. Talking on and
working with great delicacy and assurance
of touch, he drew a third face, still unmistakably
the same, but charming ; and finally,
after a fourth step towards perfection, he
sketched for us a face which was simply and
purely beautiful. As he stood aside from
each drawing in turn as it was completed,
the little audience broke into warm applause ;
and when the last face was finished, the
stamping of enthusiastic feet raised a dust of
faded odour from the floor, and made the

place feel as if it had awakened after being
neglected for a century. Then, when the
applause had subsided, he told us how the
faults in the first face, which made it plain,
were due to certain inadequacies of character,
and traced for us mental and moral progress
in the lines which led up to beauty.

Finally, everybody was interested, and
most were charmed and persuaded. If Mr.
Dolmer Delamere condescended to us — and
he did — it seemed so natural, and the condescension
was so delicately and kindly expressed,
that not a soul could dream of taking
umbrage at it. How could he but condescend,
moving on so high a plane of thought,
being so refined, and sensitive, and good,
and so filled with that piety of cultured
nature of which he spoke so often .^ His
audience was rough and poor, and he was a
product of ages of exquisitely refined thinking
and living.

The dapper man proposed a vote of
thanks, which was most eagerly carried, and

he promised Mr. Delamere, that if he should
again honour them by his presence, an audience
more fitting in number and enthusiasm
would certainly welcome his appearance. Mr.
Delamere responded, the ladies and gentlemen
withdrew, and the audience crowded
round the platform to discuss and admire
the five faces on the black board, until somebody
turned out the lights and we were left
to find our way out in the dark.

The gas went out so suddenly, and I had
been looking so intently at the five beauties
outlines, that for an instant
everything was left distinctly on the retina
or on the mind. On the mind, I think, for I
am conscious now, and seem to have been
conscious then, of the pale ring of faces, and
the tint of the walls, and the shape of the
windows, and the colours of the shadows
that lurked in corners, and half a dozen other
little details of which the eye could not
at any given moment have taken complete
cognisance. The faces quite lived with me.

and I went out into the streets in company
with them.

I do not know if it may not seem a bold
thing to say — perhaps it may seem a boastfully
foolish thing, though it is no more than
simple fact — but I never, in the whole course
of a wandering and eventful life, have cast a
conscious look upon a face, if it were only in
passing along Regent Street or in struggling
to a carriage from a railway platform, but I
could recall it clearly and identify it, and if
I were artist enough could paint it. A picture
impresses itself less vividly and profoundly,
and I have but dim remembrances
of many portraits which I have scrutinised
with care. The five sketches were but newly
imprinted on the mind, however, and I carried
them away with unbarred eyes. I
compared the fourth and fifth, and somehow,
though it was likely enough that a finer
moral and intellectual excellence was expressed
in the last, somehow, in my unregenerate
way, I liked the fourth the better.

and thought it a more human and lovable
type.

I sauntered on, without taking much
notice of the people whom I passed or who
breasted the bitter wind which blew behind
me, until a something out of consonance with
the street recalled me to myself. A pair of
well-appointed carriages had halted at the
edge of the horse-road, and Mr. Delamere,
whose figure was easily recognisable, was
shaking hands with a lady who leaned from
one of them.

Pray, let me drive you there,' said the
lady ; ' it is so little out of our way.'

No,' said Mr. Delamere. ' I am obliged
to you ; but I will walk until I find a hansom.'


I sauntered on, thinking. I heard the
lady say, ' Good-night, then,' and Mr. Delamere
said to the coachman, ' Home.' The
carriages moved past me, and a minute or
two later Mr. Delamere went by, weaving a
scarf about his throat as he walked. He

turned in passing and regarded me, and then
went on with a slight shiver at the bitter
wind, and, going at a swift and resolute pace,
turned a corner and went out of sight. My
way led me after him, and I followed. When
I reached the corner he had already cleared
the short street upon which I entered. Nota
figure broke the monotony of its lines from
end to end, and the neighbourhood was more
desolate than a desert. The noise of the
wind was dulled here, and I could still hear
the quick and nervous beat of the lecturer's
heels as he trod the pavement beyond the
next turning. Suddenly the step paused,
and there was a cry. I ran forward — I had
not more than twenty yards to run before I
reached the corner — and there was the
apostle of sweetness in the hands of three
who were not as yet his disciples. He was
struggling with them ; his light overcoat was
torn open, and I saw the gleam of his white
shirt-front in the light of a street lamp. As
I came in sight of the swaying quartette I

saw a blow struck. ]mr. Dolmer Delamere
fell full length on the pavement, and at the
sound of my approaching footsteps the three
scoundrels made off at a run. I shouted
'Stop thief as I ran, and saw the fellows
scatter and take different ways.

Mr. Delamere was but little hurt. His
hat was crushed, his right elbow was numbed
I had a fear at first that his arm was broken
and his coat was torn in two or three
places. His watch dangled from its chain,
and the buttons were torn from his waistcoat,
but he had lost nothing ; and when I
had helped him to his feet we ran at his
urging to the end of the street, shouting
'Stop thief until it became evident that
his assailants had escaped. No policeman
made an appearance, and, so far as I saw,
no one appeared at door or window to manifest
any interest in the affair. We settled
down almost directly, and I ventured to observe
— being young and nervous, and feeling
it necessary to say something — that all the

world was not quite converted to the principles
of the Moral Tone Association.

'No,' he said; 'you arrived by a happy
accident for me. Those fellows were ready
for any extremity of violence.' He looked
down at me from his superior height, and
by and by added, ' I have seen you before
this evening ? '

Yes,' I answered. ' I was present at
your lecture.'

You reside in this neighbourhood .^ ' he
asked me, with that courteous condescension
which had marked him all the evening.

Some miles away,' I said. I went on to
express some surprise and admiration for his
coolness. Most men would have become a
little flustered and excited.

I have lived long enough to learn one
important lesson,' he responded. ' Now is a
man's only time. When a thing is done, I
have done with it.'

I was much the more flustered of the two
indeed, he did not seem disturbed at all.

He chafed the numbed elbow, and, catching
me in the act of looking at him, he said with
a smile —

That is a part of now, and will be for a
day or two, I fancy. You go about among
these people ? Yes ? You are not a clergyman
? I thought not. A doctor ? No? A
student of human nature ? '

I blushed and pleaded guilty stammeringly.
They were interesting — the people
down here. I am afraid I caught something
of his own tone, and, being very young and
an absurd prig and coxcomb in a hundred
ways (though, as I believe, a fairly honest
and lovable lad at bottom), I was pleased to
find that he did not confound me with the
rest of his hearers, and wanted him to understand
that I was an intellectual young person.

'Yes,' said he, still chafing the numbed
elbow ; ' they make themselves interesting.'
Then a moment later, ' What sort of a
sample had I there to-night .'^ Were they
exceptional .^ '

'Certainly not representative,' I told
him. Exceptionally intelligent, curious, and
anxious to learn, I fancied. For the most
part the people of that quarter seemed
apathetic, stolid, not anxious to go beyond
themselves and their affairs of everyday.
He was so easy, stately, and condescending
that I was rather in awe of him, and expressed
myself somewhat hesitatingly.

You must be good enough to let me
know to whom I am indebted,' he said,
when I had done speaking. He drew a
card-case from his pocket, and we exchanged
cards. He paused beneath a lamp and read
my name and address aloud. ' John Den-ham,
lo Warwick Court, Gray's Inn.' A
four - wheeled cab rumbled into the street ;
he hailed it, and it proved to be empty.
You must let me set you down, Mr. Den-ham,
if you are going homewards now.'

I accepted his invitation, and as we rode
he persuaded me to talk. The rattling
noise of the vehicle made conversation

difficult, and I had to shout at him, so that
I felt impudent and noisy. When the driver
pulled up at the entrance to Warwick Court
Mr. Delamere shook me by the hand, expressed
a desire to see more of me, promised
to write in the course of a day or two, and
then drove away.

In a day or two an invitation to dinner
awaited me. Mr. Delamere expressed a
hope that I might not be engaged for the
specified day, and asked me, if I should be
so, to appoint another date and give him a
week's notice. I wrote at once to accept
the invitation. I looked forward to the
evening with a fluttered expectancy, and
was rejoiced to think that I was about to set
foot in literary and artistic London.

VOL. I

UU

I THINK my chambers were amongst the
tiniest in town. If there are less spacious
apartments they are inhabited by people
smaller of stature than the average Briton,
or not inhabited at all. The bedroom was
about the size of a Saratoga trunk, and the
sitting-room was only a trifle larger. I was
very happy there and very full of dreams
and ambition, and I spent my days in pursuits
more or less literary. I was not quite
certain In what direction I was to blossom,
but I had a modest certainty that I should
flower out in one way or another, and become
rich and famous — a delusion which I
have found to be common amongst bookish
young men of three or four-and-twenty. I

had written a three - act comedy, which no
manager would so much as look at, and a
five-canto poem, which no publisher would
venture to introduce to an uninterested
world ; and in the course of a score or so of
chapters I had got the characters of an intended
novel into so unearthly a muddle of
cross-purposes that I had thrown aside the
whole thing in disgust, and for the time
abandoned it. None of these things destroyed
or abated the modest confidence
already mentioned.

I was sitting in my own room an hour or
two after the despatch of my answer to Mr.
Delamere's invitation to dinner when I heard
a noise of hammering overhead, and after
responding to it by a vigorous employment
of the poker on the brickwork of my fireplace,
I threw open my outer door and
awaited the arrival of the personage whose
presence had been signalled. Above me
dwelt a young man of seven-and-twenty —
four years my senior — Walter Pole by name.

He had no occupation, and seemed in want
of none ; but he had a prodigious circle of
acquaintances. He read a great deal, though
how he found time to do it was something
of a wonder, and he lounged through time
with a solemn insouciance which some people
found irritating and others charming. He
was a good deal of an athlete and chose to
disguise his activity by a pretence of idleness,
propping himself up lazily against walls and
doors with his head rolling idly, as if in quest
of a restful corner, and his hands in his
pockets. He and I were great chums, but
he feigned to be too idle to walk downstairs
to knock at my door like an ordinary Christian,
and always demanded an answer to that
noisy signal of his before he would take the
trouble to descend.

On this occasion there was a pause
between the signal and the sound of his
steps upon the stair, and so, leaving the door
open, I resumed my book and went on
reading. In those happy days — it was the

Spring of the year 1865 — Charles Dickens
was alive and at work, and the whole
English-reading world was engaged with
Mr. Silas Wegg and Mr. Nicodemus Boffin.
I am aware now — on the authority of an
American gentleman who ought to know —
that since the great master's death fiction
has grown to be a finer art than it was in
his day, but somehow — whether with advancing
years one's faculty for enjoyment grows
duller, or whether the gilt has been rubbed
off the sectional gingerbread by the defacing
hand of Time, as it has been rubbed oft
gingerbread of so many other kinds — there
comes nobody who delights me in his way.
I would fain have the finer sorts of art which
have grown up in the last score of years
abolished, and the dead master back again ;
or — and the second wish seems likelier of
fulfilment — would fain see some new man
rising who would make me laugh and cry ashe
did, and as he still does whenever I look
into his noble and delightful pages.

A new book from Dickens. Let elderly
and middle-aged people remember what it
meant, and let me enjoy myself for a minute
as I recall that afternoon.

I forgot the signal and the open door,
and I read on until the last page of the number
was finished. Then I became aware
that the fire was out, that the door was still
open, that the dusk of the spring evening
was falling fast, and that I was stiff and cold.
I rang the bell to have the fire remade, and
then walked upstairs to the first landing.
The door was closed, but my chum answered
to my knock, returning to his pocket as I
entered the hand he had used to open it,
and beckoning me indoors by a backward
movement of his head.

I was coming down,' he said, ' but I had
a call just as I knocked to you. Do you
fellows know each other ?' We did not, and
he introduced us to each other. ' Jones —
Dunham.'

Jones presented rather a striking figure.

He was taller than common — six feet two,
I should say ; he differed very much from
what one's ideal Jones should look like ;
was magnificently moustached and bearded ;
he had jet-black Italian-looking eyes and an
olive-coloured skin. His features were remarkably
delicate and refined, and his long
wavy hair was parted in the middle.

I beg your pardon,' he said in a soft
voice which had a faint suspicion of an
un-english accent, ' but did I see your name
upon the door-post as I came upstairs ?'

I live in the rooms below these,' I
answered.

'Was it you who saved Delamere's life
the other night?' he asked.

Saved his life ?'

He certainly said so.'

I saved his watch,' I said. ' I was lucky
enough to hear him call out, and when I
turned the corner the men who had attacked
him ran away. I don't think his life was in
any danger.'

'Well said the Italian-looking Jones,
smoothing his glossy beard with a hand of
beautiful whiteness and delicacy, ' he quite
thinks he would have been killed if it had
not been for the happy accident of your
arrival ; and he is, I assure you, boiling over
with gratitude.'

Remembering Mr. Delamere's unusual
coolness I was a little astonished at this,
but I said nothing.

The Delameress are great friends of
mine,' continued Jones. ' Delamere is a
remarkable man. He has never done half
as much as he should have done, of course ;
but he stands aloof from modern art a good
deal, and lives with the ideals of the past.'

With this a certain undefined uneasiness
took possession of him, and in a little while
began to develop oddly. He rose and poked
the fire. He fidgeted with the gas, raising
and lowering the flame of the burners. He
strayed to the book-shelves, and there took
down and opened a score of volumes, returning

each after an apparently unseeing glance
at one of its pages. Pole, with one leg
thrown across the other, followed these
movements with a glance of some meaning,
and once or twice the merest glimpse of a
smile flickered across his face.

'What's the matter, Jones?' he asked
after a while, when the other's signs of uneasiness
had become so marked as to seem
to call for some recognition.

Jones seemed to make up his mind, and
then seemed to recoil from his determination,
and then seemed to make up his mind again.

Do you sketch at all, Pole ? Do you
paint ?' he asked. ' Have you any sketching
tools about ? Anything will do.'

No,' said Pole, ' I'm sorry to say I do
nothing in that line. What is it that's a-
hurting you, my boy ? The divine afflatus V

I've an idea,' said Jones, wincing as if it
hurt him to have this not too-pointed bit of
fun poked at him. ' I want to get it down
before it goes. Anything will do. A bit of

brown paper and a fragment of charcoal.
Anything.' /

'There's your brown paper,' returned
Pole, opening a drawer and setting a sheet
of paper on the table. ' And there's your
material for charcoal.' He drew a packet of
firewood from a locker, and cutting the string
which surrounded it, thrust one of the pieces
between the bars of the fire-place and left it
there.

Jones pounced upon the paper, smoothed
it with both hands upon the table, and then
thrust a second stick between the bars.

Don't let that burn too far,' he said ; and
drawing out the first, returned to the table,
and with the burning bit of wood began to
work all manner of preparatory eager signs
with it, as though he were hungering to
realise his idea.

Now at this time it was meat and drink
to me to see an artist at work ; and I arose
to watch the Italian-looking Jones with an
excited interest of a sort which hardly any

other spectacle in the world would have
awakened in me. There was a glamour
about an artist, even if he were a duffer,
which no other earthly creature had about
him. Jones, with that clumsily-shaped bit
of charcoal, before the red sparks had fairly
died out of it, began to draw with a feverish
hurry and rapidity. Pole got ready one bit
of charcoal for him whilst he used another ;
and in something under five minutes, as I
should guess, a very beautiful and noble face
was expressed upon the brown paper, and
the artist threw himself into a chair and lit a
cigarette. His eagerness to get the sketch
made had seemed a little exaggerated, and
now his indifference and laxness seemed a
little overdone. I was young, and, as does
not happen with every young man in the
world, I knew it. I mistrusted my own experience,
and yet I seemed to discover a
something overdone in the Jonesian enthusiasm
of desire and its rapidly followed exhaustion.
Did artists really work in that

way ? Were they so seized by an idea,
and so incapable of resisting it ? Or was
Jones exceptionally gifted, or exceptionally
susceptible, or was he a little bit of a

hum ? I dared hardly complete the

inquiry.

Pole stood over the table with his hands
in his pockets and his head on one side, and
looked enjoying at the drawing. For my
own part I was a little staggered by the bold
swiftness and dexterity with which this inspiration
had been brought to life, but Pole's
beaming face expressed a gratification so
unusual for him that my doubts died, and
I began to think that I was in the presence
of a new Michael Angelo.

*I say,' said Pole, in his idle way, 'you
must let me keep this, old fellow.'

If you care for it,' Jones answered languidly.
' It's off my mind now. I've got it
down and I can get it again whenever I
want it'

You don't mean to say that you could

reproduce this inspiration accurately ?' Pole
asked him, still beaming at the drawing.

Oh yes,' said the artist, with a careless
modesty. ' You see,' he added, waking up
a little, ' when an idea gets into the mind
it offers itself sometimes in a ,
tantalising kind of way. It comes
and goes, revealing itself in glimpses which
are neither clear enough nor prolonged
enough to make that kind of impression on
the memory which is necessary to fix it.
But if you can catch the tricksy thing and set
it in form, no matter how roughly, it is your
own property for good and all. The definite
impression is secured — clearly stamped on the
mind. I shall never forget that face again.'

He dropped back into languor, relit
his extinguished cigarette, and smoked in
silence. Two or three minutes later he
arose, looked at his watch, took up his hat,
and said good-bye.

I think,' he added to me, ' that you dine
at the Delameress on Monday .^'

THE WEAKER VESSEL chap.

I wrote to-days I answered, 'accepting.'

'We shall meet there,' he said; and with
more good-byes he went away.

Pole, having closed the door behind him,
came back at a waltz, and having circled the
room twice or thrice, cannoned against a sofa
and fell into it, laughing. Then he got up
and looked at the charcoal drawing, and
rubbed his hands and laughed again, with
an enjoyment so genuine that I laughed with
him.

Here's a lark,' he said, still chuckling.

Where is it ?' I asked him.

'Here,' he answered; and opening a
drawer below the book-shelves he drew out
a sheaf of papers, from amongst which he
produced a rough sheet of gray paper, such
as grocers use, and holding it before me, displayed
to my astonished vision an absolute
replica of the drawing which had just been
executed in my presence. He set the two
side by side, and we examined them together.
They looked almost as if they

might have been produced from the same
Lithographic stone.

What is this ? ' I asked ; ' a coincidence ? '

Yes,' said Pole, turning on me with a
delicious grin of mischief, ' a coincidence.
Do you know Wilson Craig ? No ? He's a
far-off cousin of mine — Scotchman. Poor
Sebastian had the same idea at Craig's only
a week ago. He was tormented by it; was
obliged to get it out. If you can once catch
the tricksy thing, you know, it's your own
property for good and all. But it comes and
goes, my boy, revealing itself in glimpses
which are neither clear enough nor prolonged
enough to make that kind of impression
on the memory which is necessary
to fix it.'

Sebastian ? ' I asked. ' Who is Sebastian
? '

Sebastian ? Sebastian Is Jones. Sebastian
Dolmer Jones. His name has been a
damage to him. If his godfathers and godmothers
at his baptism had seen to it that

THE WEAKER VESSEL

he should be called Bill, or Dick, or Tom, or
Harry, it would have been a blessing for
him. But Sebastian Dolmer's bound to be a
bit out of the way, and to have artistic
cranks and furies, don't you see ! Sebastian
Dolmer can't even speak his native tongue
without a little bit of foreign accent. How
should he ? Bill Jones could have done it,
or Dick, Tom, or Harry, but Sebastian and
Dolmer couldn't manage it between 'em
though they tried ever so. Thank your
stars you're plain John, my boy.'

I felt a vicarious shame. I would greatly
have preferred that Jones should not have
been bowled out in this ignominious way.
Pole's rejoicing at it seemed cruel and unfair.


Rubbish ! ' said he, when I put this before
him. ' The only advantage this kind of
humbug brings with it is that a man can
laugh at it. What do you think pretence
exists for, unless to be found out and laughed
at ? You're going to dine with the Delamere,

are you ? Then you're going into the
very nursery and citadel of humbug. The
dinner's real and the wines are real. Plates,
knives, forks, spoons, chairs, tables, white
ties, shirt-fronts, dress-coats, all real. But
the people and the sentiments ! Keep Sebastian
Dolmer In your mind, John. There's a
lot of Sebastian Dolmer In the enlightened
converse of the Delameress. But whenever
you hear It your safeguard is to say " Jones "
to yourself. Look here ! ' He became quite
hot upon a sudden, and struck the table,
leaning across it and looking me straight In
the eyes. ' I'll tell you what you'll find
there. You'll find the sham enthusiast in
art, who doesn't know a Rubens from a Vandyke
; and the sham enthusiast In humanity,
who wouldn't part with sixpence to save you
from starvation ; and the sham enthusiast
in friendship, who'll stick pins and needles
in a wax caricature of you when you're gone ;
and the sham enthusiast In the last new fad
of atheism, who's deadly afraid of ghosts and

VOL. I D

says his prayers on the sly ; and the sham
enthusiast In poetry, who's as wooden under
her wooden simper as this wooden table.
They tremble with sensitiveness, every man
Jack and woman Jill of them, and they're
just as tough-hided as a lot of camels. They're
boiling over with sympathies of all sorts if
you listen to 'em, and they're dryer than the
desert sand. Look at this!' He snatched
the drawing vehemently from the table and
held it up before me. * Why can't plain
Jones come here and say, '* I'm just itching
all over to show you how practised and
dexterous I am. There's a rapid bit of certainty
for you ! And now I've staggered
you I'm happy ! " Vanity's a natural passion,
and, like all natural passions, it's useful whilst
you've got the bit in its mouth and the reins
in your hands. But the beggar comes
Sebastian Dolmering with his stale old inspiration,
and turns his own cleverness into
a shameful lie.'

They can't all be like that,' I hesitated.

The fancy made my head ache. I was young
and ingenuous, and I wanted to believe in
people.

Go and dine with the Delameress,' he
answered, still speaking hotly, ' and then
tell me how far I'm wrong.'

I WENT to dine with the Delameress, and
whilst I dressed and whilst I was on the way
I felt as if I were somehow on a mean errand
as If I were going to spy out the defects
of my host and convives, and find out each
one of them In a false enthusiasm. I had
no right to accept a man's hospitality on
those conditions, and the dinner began to
take the aspect of an ordeal. It seemed
especially terrible to face Jones, whom I
already knew to be a pretender. He would
probably go on pretending, and I should have
to look and listen and to pretend to be
deceived by his pretensions. As we get older
we take a more humorous or a more allowing
view of human foibles, unless we happen

to have been so bitterly wounded by them
in our sensitive days that the whole world
grows hateful ; but there is nothing so hopeless
and mournful to the heart of an ingenuous
lad than the beginning of disbelief in his
fellow-mortals.

I was partly relieved and cheered by an
unexpected encounter at the door of Mr.
Delamere's house in Cromwell Terrace. A
little old gentleman was in the act of discharging
a hansom there as I drove up, and
as he stood on tiptoe to reach the outstretched
hand of the cabman I recognised him. This
little old gentleman was the Reverend Dr.
Fish, an old friend of my father's and a great
favourite of mine. There was a good fat
vicarage in my native Warwickshire village,
and Dr. Fish had held it for many years. In
his old age he had allowed himself to be
transplanted to London, chiefly in order to
make room for his son, who had taken the
living the Doctor had vacated.

Ha, John, my boy,' said the Doctor, as

I alighted and stood waiting by him at Mr.
Delamere's door. * I expected to meet you
here.' He was silent when a man-servant
opened the door, and whilst we disembarrassed
ourselves of hats and coats, but when we had
mounted the stairs and found ourselves alone
in the drawing-room he began to speak again.
I heard of your gallant conduct the other
night. Delamere mentioned it to me, and —
you mustn't be offended, John — he talked
about doing something for you. He has a
weakness for patronage. I told him, of course,
that that would never do, and told him who
you were, and so on, and as a matter of fact
you are here under my recommendation.
Delightful people — delightful people — but
curiously exclusive.'

I was on the point of saying that I had
been surprised to find him there, but remembering
that Mr. Delamere's opinions
about religion afforded me my only grounds
for surprise I kept a judicious silence. The
old Doctor, with his eyes beaming benevolently

behind his gold-rimmed glasses, and
his soft old face alight with friendship and
amiability, touched the theme which was
in my mind.

They are, as I said just now, delightful
people, but I am not sure that some of them
may not be a little dangerous if placed in
contact with a mind not altogether formed.
They have curious opinions, even reprehensible
opinions sometimes, some of them.
There's that book of Seeley's, and there's
that other book of Kean's. They are not
works which I would recommend a young
man to study ; but after all, you know, John,
we must know doubt to fight it, and I find
Mr. Delamere a kind of mental tonic'

It was plain that Dr. Fish felt it necessary
to justify his presence there. ' You don't
know Miss Delamere yet ? ' he went on.
Of course not. Of course not. A very
superior young lady, a very charming young
lady. Perhaps a little over-educated. I am
no friend to these new-fangled notions about

female education, but she wears her learning
lightly, and she is certainly very charming.'

Mr. Delamere appeared and welcomed me
very agreeably. The guests began to drop
in, amongst them Jones, whom I greeted with
a wretched consciousness of embarrassment,
being afraid, though I knew how unreasonable
the fear was, that he was somehow
aware of my knowledge of him, and thinking
all the while how hideously ashamed he
would have been If he were aware of my
discovery. I was Introduced to an American
lady who was assuredly old enough to be
my mother ; a lady who wrote poetry, and
blushed and simpered behind her fan like
the dear young creature she had been thirty
years earlier, and made my life a burden tome
whilst I tried to talk to her. Then I
was Introduced to a tall and stately foreigner,
who left me abruptly to talk to a fat woman
In red, who received him with a shrill ecstasy;
and then, whilst I was rather forlornly turning
over the leaves of a book of engravings, a

lady who commanded my instant attention
sailed into the room, and moved from one to
another with salutations and welcome and
apology for being late. There were more
reasons than one for looking at her, for, to
begin with, she was very strikingly beautiful
and graceful, and dressed with a taste which,
though I was then even more ignorant in
such matters than I am now — and that is
saying a great deal — seemed to me altogether
exquisite. But the thing that enlisted my
attention was this. The fourth drawing of
that suite of five which Mr. Delamere had
executed upon the black board at the lecture
for the Moral Tone Association had been
neither more nor less than an accurate reproduction
of Miss Delamere's face. I could
not help thinking that in a person of Mr.
Delamere's reputation there was something
wanting in good feeling and delicacy in
having drawn his daughter's features for the
instruction and amusement of that mechanical
crowd, and when I came to remember the

comments on the fifth drawing and his cold-blooded
artistic improvement on his child's
features, I felt for the moment as if I hated
him. But Mr. Delamere himself carrying
me up to his daughter and introducing me to
her as the hero of his adventure of a week
ago, and making much of me to her in spite
of some feeble protest of my own, I had no
time to pursue my thoughts of him. When
it appeared that I was set apart to take Miss
Delamere down to dinner, and when it appeared
further that everybody was impressed
with an absurdly untrue Idea of my courage
and usefulness on the night of the attack, I
resigned myself for a while in a kind of stupor.
Pole's denunciation of the Delameress and
their set of friends and acquaintances was
with me for an hour and more, and nothing
but my beautiful neighbour's easy charm of
manner drew me away from the memory
of it.

Mary Delamere was two years younger
than myself. She had a perfect self-possession,

and a distinguishing quietude of manner
which would have become a princess. She
was very beautiful, and in her quiet kind
way did so much to put me at my ease that
I became grateful to her and was not long
in arriving at the conclusion that, whatever
brand of insincerity might have been marked
upon the rest of the people there present, she
herself was as honest as daylight. Nothing
about her pleased me so much as the soft,
sincere serenity of her manner — a something
so gentle and engaging that I have no words
for it. One used to hear — for phrases come
into fashion and go out again as clothes doa
good deal of the eyes as the windows of
the soul. I never knew anybody of whom
the saying seemed as true as it did of r^Iary
Delamere. Candour lived in those large
gray orbs of hers. They were not made to
hide deceit. Before the evening was over I
was ready to fight anything or anybody in
defence of that belief.

Perhaps if it had not been for Pole's diatribe

of a day or two earlier I might have
been more disposed to believe in the sincerity
of other people at the table. There was a
lady opposite to me who talked of her poor
dear Hottentots in tones of greatest affection,
and as though she owned the nation, but I
never learned in what relation she and the
poor dear Hottentots stood to each other, or
on what ground she made them hers. A
long-haired, clean-shaven man sat beside her
and held the table spell-bound for a while ashe
spoke of the desecration of a Turner which
was in the possession of a titled acquaintance.


They had had it cleaned, Delamere,' he
said with a voice and manner of resigned
despair. 'All that lovely impasto architectural
stuff turns out to have been built up in
white and glazed. They have cleaned the
glaze away, and now the thing stares at you,
with the middle distance hanging over the
foreground — a forlorn line of dirty chalk. I
could have cried with anger. I could positively

have shed tears of mortification. I
could indeed.'

The long-haired, clean-shaven man made
this protestation with a sort of reserve, as if
he would rather that we didn't think too
highly of him for it.

Jones said it was heart-breaking, absolutely
heart-breaking, and (as an aside to the man
behind his chair) that he would take a little
currant-jelly.

I caught Miss Delamere's eye at this
moment, and was guilty of a youthful impertinence
of that sort which is only perpetrated
by shy people, who, as a matter of
fact, say and do, in their own desperation,
the most impudent things which are said and
done in the world. I asked why the gentleman
didn't cry, if he wanted to. Her eyes
laughed, but she held up a warning finger.

You must not say that sort of thing,' she
answered. ' It is not good form.'

I was horribly disconcerted, and for a while
found nothing else to say. The man had

irritated me. I was persuaded that he had
cared less about the Turner than I should
have done myself, and that he had only
mentioned its destruction in order to show
how delicately-toned he was, and what a love
for art he had. But of course I had no least
little right to ridicule her father's guests to
the lady of the house, and I told myself that
nobody but a cad could have dreamed of
making that unfortunate observation. Yet
Pole's opinion of the people was working in
me, and I had been embarrassed by the
wilful exaggeration of my own accidental
service, and Jones's trick of being inspired
with the same urgent fancy twice running
was present in my mind, and I seemed to
breathe an atmosphere of humbug which
stifled me.

I suppose Miss Delamere saw my embarrassment
and took pity upon me.

'You live in Gray's Inn, I think, Mr.
Denham ? '

Not actually within the Inn,' I answered,

determining that I at least would be precise.
In Warwick Court, just outside the Inn
gates.'

Do you happen to know a Mr. Pole, who
lives there ? ' she asked me.

'Very well indeed,' I answered, not much
relieved from my discomfiture by the introduction
of his name.

He was a great friend of ours until a
little while ago,' she said. ' He used to be
very enthusiastic at times about art, and
books, and politics, and we thought he had
a career of some sort before him. Is he —
you know him well, you say — is he changeable?'


I thought not. He pretended to be lazy ;
but what with his friends, and his books, and
his athletics, he must always have his hands
full.

Oh yes,' she said, ' I know that way of
his, but I was not thinking of that. There
are a great many young men who are ashamed
of being thought enthusiastic, and he is one

of them. He used to come here very often,
and my father had become attached to him,
but somehow he has drifted away. I should
be obliged if you would tell him that he was
asked for. You must understand,' she added
brightly, ' that he and I are friends of fifteen
years' standing, and that I have old-established
rights to an interest In him.'

It was clearly impossible to say what I
knew of his reasons for staying away, but I
promised as lightly as I could to convey her
message. Then I began to wonder whether
Pole had included this delightful young lady
in his condemnation of her father's guests.

'They can't all be like that,' I had said to
him when he had done with Jones.

Go and dine with the Delameress,' he had
answered, 'and see how far I am wrong.'

And now, bent on discovery, and quite
certain that if he attacked Miss Delamere
with the rest then I should be able to confute
him, I watched my chance. Somebody spoke
of the civilising influences of art. Art seemed

the Delamere gospel — the tidings of joy to
an ugly world — the only possible redemption
of men and women lay in it.

Don't you think it easy,' I asked her,
to over-estimate the things that art is going
to do for the world ? Isn't there at least a
little danger of falling into a sort of cant
about it ? '

She looked at me with a surprised smile.

Do you know,' she said, with that patronising
air which young women can always
assume so successfully with men who are
but little older than themselves, * I was
at first inclined to think you shy, Mr.
Denham ? But you are a very bold person
indeed if you dare to ventilate that doctrine
here.'

But really,' I stammered, ' it all sounds
wild to me. I — I won't speak of it, if I must
not, but '

Let us talk of it later,' she said. * Colonel
Seaforth is talking. He is always worth
listening to.'

VOL. I E

The possibility that this speech included
a counter-proposition to the effect that I was
not worth listening to so weighed upon me
that I lost the first part of Colonel Seaforth's
speech. When I was able to listen I found
he was telling a story of a comrade who
died before the Redan. Nothing could
have been better than the manner of his
narrative, nothing very well more affecting
than its matter. I was ashamed of my own
eyes, and made a pretence of eating to disguise
myself

What a theme for a poem ! ' said the
American lady, clasping her hands together.
Oh, may I use it, Colonel Seaforth ?
May I ? '

I should prefer the theme in marble,'
said the clean-shaven man. * I can see the
cold, inscrutable calm of the dead face.'

No, no, Humming,' said our host, shaking
his head with a grave decision. ' You forget
the costume.'

'You are quite right, Delamere,' returned

the clean-shaven man. ' I forgot the costume.
Language is the medium for it, after all. It
is one of the themes in which omission
becomes the chief artistic virtue.'

So they forgot the hero in the space often
seconds, and the lady opposite was reminded
by the story of something which had
happened amongst the poor dear Hottentots,
and had no earthly bearing upon it, so far as
I could discover.

The dinner came to an end, and when
coffee had been served the men followed the
ladies upstairs. There was some excellent
music, and a great deal of desultory clever
talk, and then people began to go. No
further chance presented itself for talk with
Miss Delamere, and when I came to think
of it I seemed to have acquitted myself so
ill with her that I did not dare to make an
opportunity. I had been insolent about one
of her father's guests, and I had accused the
whole table of the vice of cant, and altogether
the sooner I hid my head in shame the better

Stato u -

it seemed likely to be for me. I took advantage
of Dr. Fish's farewells to shelter my
own, and much to my surprise found Miss
Delamere's cordiality in no way diminished.

*We are at home on Fridays,' she said
kindly, ' from nine in the evening. Come
next Friday, and bring Mr. Pole with you.
Will you ? '

I promised for myself, and said I would
bring Pole if I could. She raised her eyebrows
in reproof for what I knew to be a
kind of gaucherie, and I got away covered
with confusion.

Pole .'^ ' said the old Vicar, when we
reached the street together. ' Walter Pole ?
Are you a friend of his ? I used to meet
him at the Delameress'. A bright young
fellow of high principle, I always fancied.
I used to think — oh, well, that's no business
of mine.'

We walked to the street corner together
and there separated, each taking a hansom.
Pole was in his own rooms when I got home.

and, hearing me enter, came down in his
dressing-gown and slippers.

Well,' he asked me, 'what do you think
of em ?'

I didn't know. I was weary and dispirited.
I told him with a little heat, when I began
to talk at last, that he had spoiled my evening
for me, and that I believed them to be a
deal nicer and more genuine than he thought
them. I believe I charged him, in my own
mind, with the three failures of which I had
been guilty.

I suppose,' I said at last, ' that you don't
include Miss Delamere among the sham
enthusiasts. I don't think I ever met a more
delightful girl'

Miss Delamere's another pair of shoes,
John,' he answered. ' I wasn't talking of i\Iiss
Delamere.'

I told him of the invitation I had for him,
and in his own idle way he began to beat the
half-extinguished fire with the poker.

'Yes,' he said drawlingly, poising the

poker In his hand, ' I think I'll go.' Then
he dropped the poker with a crash in the
fender, and said with startling emphasis, ' I'll
be hanged if I do.' And with that he got
up and marched away, leaving me staring
after him.

Pole sauntered into my rooms on Friday
evening just as I was making ready to start
for Mr. Delamere's house. I had not seen
him since his curious exit, but I had sent
him a note asking him to provide me with
some excuse or message in case he should be
inquired after.

So you're going, are you ?' he demanded.

'Yes, I'm going. What am I to say to
Miss Delamere ? '

I suppose,' he said, propping himself
against the bedroom door and lounging there,
that the straightest thing to say will be that
I wouldn't go.'

I put it to him that that was an unamiable
message for a friend to deliver. He shrugged

his shoulders and rolled about against the
door for a time with a manner which seemed
to disclaim responsibility.

If you like to invent any social lie you
may, my boy, but I'm not going to save your
conscience by inventing it for you. Say you
tried to persuade me and failed. Is that too
hard for you ? '

Do you want to make enemies of them ? '
I asked.

'Enemies or friends — it is all one to me,'
he answered. ' I don't suppose they'll care
greatly whether I go or not, and I'm sure I
shan't care much how they take it.'

There are thousands of people in the
world for whom one doesn't greatly care,' I
urged ; ' but one doesn't go out of the way
to wound them. You might send a civiler
message.'

If old Delamere asks for me,' said Pole,
'you can tell him that I think and speak of
him with a constant want of respect and
veneration. If Miss Delamere should do me

the honour to call me to mind again, you
may tell her that I'm sorry not to be able to
meet her.'

Finding that I could make nothing better
of him than this I set out, and arriving at Cromwell
Terrace in due time found the rooms
already fairly filled. Miss Delamere shook
hands with me, and afterwards I got into a
corner and sat dull and resigned, knowing
nobody and noticed by nobody. The rooms
were filled with a loud buzz of talk ; and I
saw so many introductions going on that it
seemed as if nobody knew anybody except
the host and his daughter. After the space
of an hour Miss Delamere found me out and
sat down beside me.

You did not bring Mr. Pole ?' she asked.
I suppose that you have seen him T

'Oh yes; I have seen him.' A sudden
awkwardness fell upon me, and Miss Delamere,
who was toying with her fan, looked
up and became immediately aware of my
embarrassment.

He refused to come ?' she said. ' Did he
give a reason for it ?*

I began to stammer something, but she
stopped me almost at once. She made no
display of temper or confusion or indifference.

Will you tell me actually what he said ?'
Then seeing that I grew more embarrassed
than before — for I knew that I was making
a foolish effort to smile in an allowing sort
of way for Pole, and an apologetic way for
myself, and failing horribly — she added,
Never mind, Mr. Denham. I ought not to
have asked you. I shall be right in thinking
it was not pleasant or friendly. Now let us
talk of something else. Do you care about
celebrities? That is Mr. Gushing — the
gentleman with the eye-glass and the black
ribbon — the author of The Spider. Have
you read it .'^ No ? People are talking

about it a great deal. That is ' and soon

through half a dozen.

They were all people with whose names I
was more or less familiar, and it was interesting

to see them for the first time. I had
forgotten Pole for the moment and the discomfiture
his purposed absence had brought
upon me, when ]\Iiss Delamere brought him
back to memory.

'Have you known Mr. Pole long? 'she
asked. I told her I had known him pretty
intimately for a year. 'You like him?'
Yes. I liked him much. I felt as if this
avowal were a sort of tacit expression of
approval of his want of politeness in her
case, and made it awkwardly. I thought at
the time, and I knew later on, that she understood
me, but she pursued her questioning.
'He is not natively impolite, I fancy?' I
thought not. Brusque, perhaps, but too
kindly to be insolent or ill-bred. ' Shall I
introduce you to Mr. Gushing? I must go
now, for I see more people coming, and I
have to receive them. Oh ! Here is Mr.
Jones. You know him already. Sebastian,
I leave you and Mr. Denham to each other.'

Jones sat beside me in the place she

vacated and began to talk, but I could see
that his heart was not in it, and that he was
somehow distracted. He appeared to be
more interested in his own coat than men
commonly are, and sat plucking at his sleeves
with delicate thumb and forefinger until I
made a discovery which I suppose I ought
to have made much earlier. Jones was not
attired in absolute black, as other men were,
but had had his clothes cut out of very dark
claret colour. When he was sure that my
observation was attracted by this fact he
mentioned it.

You are looking at my coat ? It's something
of an innovation, and I dare say that
one may be laughed at for it. But really
one finds the monotony of English dress
oppressive, and evening dress has quite
grown beyond one's power of endurance.
One has been looking for some sort of moral
Curtis to throw himself into the gulf for
years past, and since one can't find him one
must sacrifice oneself.'

He Invested the theme with a certain air
of lightness. Since that time I have seen
men jest under fire in the same spirit. I
could see that he felt the seriousness of the
position.

Somebody has to lead the way, and of
course it doesn't do to be too bold at first.
One may find somebody to follow one's lead,
or even to go beyond it. The thing once
started may make strides. One doesn't
know. But really it seems impossible that
men should be content to go on for ever in
the present monotony of hideousness.'

I began to take an interest in Jones. The
artistic humbug with which he had chosen
to mark the beginning of my knowledge of
him had made him noticeable, and this new
development, which seemed to be so admirably
in consonance with the first, helped to
make him worthy of study. For the first
time in my life I began consciously to try to
see inside a man, to appreciate his standpoint,
to endeavour to see how he saw things,

and what kind of opinion of himself supported
him. It struck me that since I was
perilously near to hating and despising him,
and since he was perilously near to self-worship,
it might be worth while to study him,
if only with an eye to reconciling the difference
and striking a reasonable balance. You
have a right to be grateful to the man who
sets you upon any new field of mental effort,
and I have to thank Jones for many happy
hours.

I began to observe him closely. He was
very far from being untimely, and, so far as
I could discover, there was nothing in the
way of warning in his face. He had very
fine, soft, dark, Italian eyes, faithful and sincere
to look at, with just such a patient longing
in them as you may see in an intelligent
and affectionate dog's. His moustache hid
his mouth, but his forehead seemed to express
honesty and candour. Nothing but a slight
pinching of the nostrils betrayed any poverty
of nature or littleness of sentiment. Something

of coxcombry and affectation could be
traced in his manner, but not enough to
offend, unless you were somewhat too readily
disposed to be offended. ♦

Delamere quite desponds,' he said, clinging
to his theme. ' But then Delamere is
elderly: he is getting on in life, and one
doesn't expect to find the enthusiasm of hope
in a man of his years. I dare say, now, you
take this for a sort of ridiculous trifling ; but
really it isn't so if one looks rightly at it.
When beautiful dress was a part of every
gentleman's duty the arts flourished as they
have never flourished since. Every assemblage
of ladies and gentlemen afforded the
eye a feast of delicate and rich colouring.
The popular taste was educated to colour,
and to us who look upon tone and form as
the elementary civilising influence, the question
of dress assumes an importance which,
of course, it cannot wear to those who
do not share our convictions. To dress
with grace and refinement is one of the

ways to thinking and living with grace and
refinement.'

Whilst Jones was talking thus Mr. Delamere
appeared in our neighbourhood, and
taking a chair which happened to be vacant
near at hand, drew it up to the sofa upon
which we sat, and placed himself before us.

Nobody would think,' he said, striking inhere,
' of disputing that proposition, but really
we are at such a period of decadence that

He paused with an air of dejection,

but brightened a moment later. ' I don't
know,' he went on. '''When things are at
their worst they sometimes mend." Perhaps
we may really hope for a rebound from all
this. The popular taste can never be finally
depraved.'

Everything seems to move in grooves,'
said Jones seriously. ' We have our cycle
of ugliness with us now. We shall move
out of it by and by.'

I'm not sure,' said Mr. Delamere, putting
up a pair of gold-rimmed glasses, the better

to scrutinise Jones's raiment, ' that the point
of departure is well chosen. You see, Sebastian,
that if you push your point to its
legitimate conclusion, you may arrive — you
must arrive — at golds, and reds, and blues.
Now the question comes, Will the material
and the form lend themselves to a richly
coloured treatment? To my mind, that
question carries its own answer.'

'I have thought it out, sir,' Jones answered,
with a respectful firmness of demeanour.
' If we desire to move the crowd
we must have their good-will. To be moved
too suddenly is shocking. The material is
too important, too solidly fixed as it were,
to be tampered with at first without danger.
A slight deviation in colour — a mere hint
of movement in the right direction — can
give no shock, whilst it may invite attention.'


Of course, returned Mr. Delamere, ' one
has not spent sixty years in the world without
learning patience, but even now the

VOL. I F

narrow-mindedness, the extreme limitation
of vision, which characterises some of the
best-meaning people one encounters, is a
little trying. I was speaking of this very
theme the other night at the Trelawneys',
and a gentleman whose name I have forgotten
— he turned out to be a medical man
of some eminence — chose to be mightily
satirical. I remember now, a Doctor Brand,
a disorderly giant of a man ; a man, I should
say, judging from what I saw of him, of
excellent capacities. He thought the soap-boiler
a more practical person to encourage
in the cause of civilisation than the costumier.
He put it rather well, but " My dear sir," I
said, '' chacun a son mother. Let us all work
together. Let us welcome anything that
helps. Soap and the scrubbing-brush by all
means, but then I do not deal in soap ana
scrubbing-brushes." I heard him afterwards
he is a loud man, not too well-bred, and
one can hear him over a whole room — and
he was talking of fiddling and Rome burning,

and that sort of thing. He found some
listeners, too.'

'There is no popular art-feeling,' said
Jones. * There is no conception of the
necessity of an awaking.'

I thought of many things, but then I knew
how young I was, and I kept silence. Mr.
Delamere took up his parable anew.

*I am a little tired,' he said. * One
doesn't sacrifice one's conclusions any the
more for being tired, but I confess to a little
fatigue. There are none blinder than those
who won't see, and people will not see that to
be ugly is to be immoral. They have to see
that two and two make four. That is a
matter of the counting-house, and must be
remembered in the purchase of the daily loaf.
But they are quite sunk in stupor about
everything that does not relate to their hateful
daily comforts. One moves them for a
moment — even in Houndsditch ' — he looked
at me — ' one finds people who will listen ;
but they go to sleep again.'

One would hardly think, sir,' said Jones
with a mournful appeal, ' that you would
shrink from lending the weight of your own
example to a movement of this sort.' He
shook his claret-coloured sleeve, and looked
almost hopelessly at Delamere.

I do not disapprove of it,' said he
solemnly. 'It is well meant, Sebastian,
and it may bear fruit beyond your expectations.
But I am too old, a little too much
daunted by futile experiment, too saddened
by repeated failure. Youth has the vitality
for experiment. By the way, I must show
you my last bit of Worcester, Sebastian.
Are you interested in china, Mr. Denham ? '

I was on the edge of some idiotic rejoinder
about the Opium traffic, but I understood intime,
and saved myself. Mr. Delamere
piloted us downstairs and showed us a
cabinet, with most of the contents of which
Jones was evidently familiar. My host,
delicately handling some of its treasures,
grew extremely eloquent and interesting.

He probably knows more about old
Worcester than any man alive,' said Jones,
when we were left to ourselves again by the
chance intrusion of other guests. ' His learning
is prodigious.'

I went away dazed that night. I felt
somehow as if I had been beaten about the
head. My wits were scattered and I did not
get at them easily. This solemn air of going
crusading about the colour of a coat and a
pair of trousers, this prodigy of learning in
old crockery-ware, fairly stupefied me. I
walked alone, and my soul rebelled at it all.
This huge London, said I hotly to myself,
lies sweltering about them, noble and loathly,
all comedy and tragedy, and they turn their
backs upon it, and blind themselves from the
sight of it, and find their souls' bread in 
and the wine of life in the distillation
of the fashion plates. And I thought myself
particularly clever, and felt that I was great
and magnanimous and altogether what I ought
to be by comparison with these triflers, and

got into a very satisfactory state of mind by
reason of them. But if I thought poorly of
the great art critic himself or of Jones his
pupil, I had formed, without knowing any
very sound reasons for it, a different opinion
with regard to Mr. Delamere s daughter. I
do not pride myself upon any special discernment
on this account, for a boy's judgment
about a young woman is liable to be influenced
by facts of which he takes no count. Mary
Delamere was, to begin with, a very beautiful
girl, and, to continue, she was to my mind,
even in her personal aspect, better than
beautiful. I thought I read nothing but
candour and goodness in her looks, and if for
once I was right, it is not a thing to be
greatly proud of. I have thought the same
things since, and have been wrong, and it
would be a worse world than it is, if all the
eyes that look sincere and honest were the
loopholes through which mean natures peered
to spy their own advantage, and all the
unwrinkled foreheads and blooming cheeks

and laughing lips were no better than pretty
disguises. Here and there in the world, in
the middle of all the chicane and frivolity,
and that pitiless icy selfishness which is the
deadliest because the commonest of human
crimes, you find a nature so honest, so true,
so gentle and tender, that your only way with
it is to love it and worship it and wonder at
its goodness. And you are a lucky man if
its very goodness does not sometimes make
your heart ache.

I HAD no need to discover that Mr. Delamere
and Sebastian Jones were not wholly given
over to the demon of hollowness. Mr.
Delamere's books held a good deal of sound
thinking and admirable writing, and Jones's
pictures were visible to prove his faculty of
imagination, and to show that he could draw
and paint what he had imagined. But what
with Pole's emphatic condemnation of them
which carried great weight with me at the
time — and my own small discoveries and
observations, I should have fallen away from
them altogether if it had not been for the
fact of Mary Delamere's influence. I do not
think that I was ever in love with her,
though I might have gone that length but

for another's unconscious intervention ; but
from the first I admired her and revered her,
and credited her with all imaginable good
qualities. It was so great a pleasure to meet
her that it more than atoned to me for the
impotent exasperation I felt in the presence
of Jones, and the bewildering contempt with
which Jones s friend and patron inspired
me.

It was, then, entirely upon Miss Delamere's
account that I kept up my acquaintance
with her father, and consented to give
his halls the benefit of my presence, and
his society my carefully-disguised contempt.
But I should never have known in its details
the sloxy I am about to tell if it had not been
for one or two accidental circumstances, such
as are always happening in life to jostle us
out of the road upon which we fancy that
our feet are set, and into new roads upon
which we had never the remotest intention
of travelling.

Mr. Delamere's out-of- season entertainments

and receptions came to an end. The
entertainments and receptions of the season,
which were of a much more exalted and
magnificent description, were suddenly, according
to annual fashion, arrested, and in
mid-May the house in Cromwell Terrace was
closed and the family went abroad, accompanied,
as I learned, by Jones. Mr. Delamere
found a certain spell of Continental life
per year quite necessary for him, and he preferred
to take it when the winter health-seekers
were all gone home, or going, and
before the arrival of the annual summer and
autumn crowd of tourists. He liked to have
the foreign galleries to himself as far as
possible, and always, wherever he might be,
he had a sort of haughty and tolerant
patience for the crowd. He spent his life in
directing the vulgar gaze towards objects of
art, and he resented, in his polished and
gentlemanly way, the presence of the people
he so constantly and eloquently invited.

Pole and I, having nothing better to do.

went up river and lived aboard a hired house-boat.
The business arrangements which had
been necessary before we took possession of
our summer-house were entirely carried outby
Pole. I knew nothing about the boat
until we entered upon it beyond the fact
that it belonged to 'old Goldsmith,' that we
paid forty pounds for its use during the
summer season, and that during the regatta
week at Henley its proprietor would expect
to have leave to quarter himself upon us. I
had that vague and general idea of old Goldsmith
which people gather of men they have
heard of and never seen, and it naturally
happened that when he presented himself in
the flesh he proved to be the exact opposite
of what I had imagined.

I remember the day perfectly. I have
reasons for that exactitude of memory, as
will in due course appear. It was broiling
hot, and in the first week of June. The river
was low, and the clayey bank beside which
the house - boat was moored was already

fissured with the heat, and its baking cracks
gaped like so many Tantalus mouths above
the water, which flowed so near and so unreachable.
I was half asleep in the dingy,
and Pole was lounging on the deck, making
the shallowest possible pretence of reading
Roman law, when a movement on his part
awoke me from my dreams, and he murmured
softly to himself —

Now what on earth does that old scoundrel
want here ? '

Which old scoundrel ? ' I demanded
sleepily.

That old scoundrel ! ' said Pole, nodding
his head backward. ' Old Goldsmith.'

I rolled over in the dingy and, with my
elbows on the stern seat, looked down the
river in the direction indicated by Pole's
nod. On the smooth, mirror-like expanse of
the river there was but a single craft, and
seated in it, holding a tiller rope in either
hand, was a fat, contented-looking young man
of undeniably Jewish aspect. His black eyes

gleamed and his fat cheeks creased, and his
Hebrew nose wrinkled in a smile of recognition,
as the boat, impelled by a sun-burned
waterman, whose neck and arms were of the
colour of a new-baked brick, bore down upon
us. His white teeth, which looked the
whiter by contrast with the jetty little moustache
curling above them, held the stump of
a fat cigar. He was dressed in white boating
flannels, and a huge cable of watch-chain
ran from one breast pocket of his flannel
coat to the other. The plump hands that
twirled the tiller-ropes were all over rings.
His diamonds gleamed, his watch-chain
gleamed, the black eyes and white teeth
shone as he bore down ; he seemed to shine
all over ; and what with the bright daylight
and the sunny river, and this opulent glitter
of the new-comer, the effect on my sleepy
eyes was altogether dazzling.

Halloa ! ' said the new-comer, as he
stepped aboard with a dapper dexterity.
Here you are.'

Yes,' said Pole, casting a lazy eye at him
from under the rim of his straw hat, and
speaking with a conspicuous absence of welcome
in his tone; 'here we are. Who's
a-denying of it ? '

The new-comer stooped to the boatman
and handed him a coin.

This won't do ! ' said the boatman. * I
want a shilling.'

He wants a shilling ! ' The new man
appealed to me. * Did you ever hear such a
thing ? Why do you want a shilling ? What
do you want a shilling for ? '

Why ? 'Cos its the regular charge.
What for? Why, for scullion' you up
here.'

Upon my word ! ' said the new man,
still appealing to me — Pole had gone back to
his pretended study of Roman law again —
I'm always being got at. Everybody gets
at me. There you are ; that's a sixpence.
Go and revel on it, go and revel ! '

His voice stopped half-way in his hooked

nose, and all his n's sounded like d's. He
laughed with a delightful cunning and self-approval,
and his black eyes and white teeth
twinkled more brightly than before.

It's beastly hot,' said the waterman, wiping
his tanned forehead with his red forearm.
Twopence wouldn't break a gentleman like
you, would it, Mr. Goldsmith ? '

'What a wandering style of conversation!'
cried Mr. Goldsmith. 'What's the connection
between the heat and twopence ? ' He
pulled out an ostentatious handful of gold
and silver, and turned it over from one hand
to the other, facetiously blowing upon it, as
if to sever the wheat from the chaff, and
showing to me and the boatman some thirty
or forty sovereigns. I saw the glittering eye
look at me to remark if I had noticed this
little Pactolus as it flowed jingling to and
fro with metallic ripple. ' I haven't got
twopence. D'ye think a gentleman carries
coppers about with him ? There's a 
for you. Upon my word everybody

makes a mark at me, and everybody
brings me down. I'm not half active on the
wing. I can't escape 'em.'

I had never met so merry and so self-satisfied
a young gentleman. He fairly
beamed with self-approval ; and he smiled
and smiled at the smiling boatman, who
seemed to recognise a certain humour in
him, until the latter disappeared round the
bend of the river. Then the gay young
gentleman leaned over Pole and slapped him
on the shoulder.

What brings you here ? ' asked Pole,
without looking at him.

A little bit of pleasure. A little bit of
business,' he responded gaily, seeming in
nowise disconcerted by the evident coolness
of his reception.

Well, get both of them over,' said Pole,
rising and sauntering into the house-boat.
The smiling Jew followed him, and by and
by I heard Pole asking for pen and ink.

I confess that though I tried not to be

curious I did not succeed to my own complete
satisfaction. The jingle of money
within the boat made me fancy that some
part of Mr. Goldsmith's belongings were
passing to Pole. I cast the dingy loose
and sculled idly over to the other side of the
river to avoid hearing more. Pole was supposed
to have a good deal of money of his
own, and I did not understand what was
going on at all. It was obviously none of
my business, but I would a great deal rather
have believed that Pole had nothing in the
way of borrowing to do with the smiling
young personage, and yet it seemed from
that jingling of coin and that asking for pen
and ink, as if money were changing hands
between them. Then I bethought me that
though I had paid my half of the house-boat
rent beforehand, Pole might not until now
have settled with the owner, and so dismissed
the matter from my mind.

My companion and his visitor shortly
afterwards appearing on the outer deck of

VOL. I G

the house-boat, I sculled back again. Pole
was grave and silent — but he was often
grave and silent, and It was his manner to
seem constantly self-possessed. I could not
avoid a feeling that something of Importance
had happened ; but the sense of it was only
In the air, and there was nothing to give the
fancy solidity or shape.

If you'll wait here awhile,' said Pole,
turning on Goldsmith, ' I'll go up to town
with you.'

All right,' he responded cheerfully. 'I've
got to take two or three petticoats to see
Bedford and Tools In the Pauly-Tooley-
Technlc Entertainment, and I want to get
back again. Stunning funny name, ain't It ?
Pauly-Tooley-Technlc. Bedford's name Is
Paul, you know — Polytechnic. See the
joke?'

Yes,' said Pole ; ' It's a fascinating bit of
humour. Walt there.'

Mr. Goldsmith remained upon the deck,
and affably offered to beguile the time of his

waiting by tossing with me for a sovereign.
I declined this sportive offer.

Look here ! ' said the agreeable young
man. He selected two sovereigns from a
little handful, and sitting down upon the
deck, with his back lounging against the
wall of the boat, he began to toss and catch
the sovereigns with a flourishing dexterity
which seemed wasted on so simple a process.
We'll go the best of seventeen,' he said,
'and see who'd have won if we had been
tossing. I like to go a big long number
because it prologs the agony. I call to you
on the right hand, and you call to me on the
left.' When he had arranged the preliminaries
to his own satisfaction he entered upon
his self-appointed business with gravity. He
called 'eight all,' and even seemed excited.
Again he spun the glittering coin, and
peered into his palm to see the result. ' I
should have lost,' he said. ' I always do
lose. There's nothing like my luck in the
world. I never have a slice of luck like

Other people. Now, won't you have a
flutter ? '

Still I declined, thinking of a famous
phrase in the collected works of a philosopher
of his own nation, and half inclined
to quote it to him. ' Surely the net is spread
in vain in the sight of any bird.' I repressed
myself, however, and he sank into silence,
and producing a miniature book from an
inner pocket fell to checking entries in it
with a little gold pencil, until he became*
absorbed enough to forget me. By and by
Pole appeared, dressed for town, and he and
Mr. Goldsmith, stepping ashore, took their
way across the fields towards the railway
station.

I was a little curious still, in spite of myself.
I should as soon have thought of the
magnificent and refined Mr. Delamere himself
associating with this young Hebrew as
of Pole, who was fastidious in the choice of
his companions. If I had been disposed to
criticise my friend I might have thought that

he was a little too ready and too profound in
disdain, and Mr. Goldsmith was just the
kind of person of whom he would be most
readily and most profoundly disdainful. Yet
the two had dealings together, and the fat
little Jew at least was obviously unconscious
of any great social or intellectual difference
between them.

I was displeased to find myself clinging infancy
to this problem, the solution of which,
however simple or complex it might be, was
assuredly no business of mine, and I took up
a book to get rid of it ; but still finding myself
hovering round the theme in a manner which
I felt to be altogether absurd and undignified,
I walked off to the village, locking up the
house - boat before I started, and ordered
dinner at the inn. Pole and I did our own
cooking, and were getting to be expert, buta
regimen of chops and steaks palled somewhat
when the pleasant novelty of providing
for ourselves was worn away, and on this particular
afternoon I felt a distaste for solitude.

Nothing seemed very entertaining that
afternoon. I lounged about the river-bank
until dinner was ready, and then sat down to
my meal in a room overlooking the stream,
and read the day before yesterday's newspaper
as I ate. Dinner over — and I made
it last as long as I could to kill the time — I
hung at the window watching the few craft
about the stream, when I heard my friend's
name mentioned loudly and distinctly.

Mr. Pole. Mr. Walter Pole.'

A lady stood at the steps by the waterside,
and near her was the man who had
brought Goldsmith to the house-boat. The
man answered in a murmur, pointing upstream.
The lady said 'Thank you' in a
somewhat harsh and metallic-sounding voice,
and turning away from him looked casually
up at me as I looked out of window, and so
moved away. She struck me as being overdressed,
and her face was painted. She was
perhaps two or three-and-thirty years of age,
of a handsome and imposing presence, but

reckless and passionate to look at, and I had
an instinct that she had been drinking. In
the mere second for which her eyes rested on
mine they were scornful and defiant ; and in
her manner of looking away from me there
was a world of disdain.

The lady struck me as being no more a
desirable acquaintance from Pole's point of
view than the Jew had seemed to be — if anything
a little less. The memory of her face
and figure stayed with me ; I might almost
say it haunted me. There was a sort of imperious
abandoned devilry about her which
made me think that she had fallen utterly out
of her own esteem, and that her worse self
stood before her better self, striving to stare
her down and brazen her out of her reproaches.
I cannot tell how or why, but the
magnificence of her dress seemed to be in
contradiction with her face. I fancied her in
squalor, with the great lustrous coils of her
heavy hair unloosed and hanging in disorder.

She kept me in unpleasant company across

the fields as I walked back to the boat. I
saw her at a distance once, drawing patterns
on the turf with the point of her laced parasol,
and looking downwards. From where she
stood she could see the house-boat, if she
were but minded to look at it ; and I had so
much aversion to the possibility of being
recognised as one of its inmates and being
questioned by her that I purposely sauntered
away from it until I assured myself that she
had disappeared. Then I approached it,
dropped into the dingy, and pulled upstream.
It was an hour before I came back
again, and the shades of evening were beginning
to fall. The lady was on the deck of
the house-boat, trying the door, which I had
locked some two or three hours earlier. It
was but a step from the baked clay of the
bank to the deck. I drifted by in the growing
dark, and feigned to take no notice of
her, though I was irresolutely inclined to
accost her and to tell her that Pole was
absent.

I heard her shaking and knocking with an
apparent increasing anger and insistence as I
drifted beyond her, and then the sounds ceased,
and she seemed to have resigned her attempt
to enter, or to have made up her mind that
the boat was really deserted. I kept away for
fully an hour after this, and then returning
and finding the coast clear, entered, lit the
lamp, and sat down to my usual evening's
work. At this time I was resolute to select
and record whatever seemed best worth
noting and remembering in the progress of
the day — thoughts, impressions, descriptions,
scraps of all sorts. I was engaged in this
way, and quite absorbed in my task, when the
door was thrust suddenly and noisily open,
and turning a startled look that way, I saw
the lady standing before me.

She stared at me with a sort of haughty
and angry surprise, as though the chamber had
belonged to her and I had been an intruder.

Where is Mr. Pole ? ' she asked me, curtly
and disdainfully.

He has gone to town,' I answered.

You heard me asking for him at the inn,'
she said, with the same curt disdain of words
and tone ; * why did you not tell me then that
he was gone to town ? '

I beg your pardon,' I answered. ' It did
not occur to me.'

It did not occur,' she said, in a voice of
explanatory suavity, as if she addressed some
third person. Then — ' I will wait until he
returns.'

She entered, closed the door behind her,
and sat down. I made no objection to this,
though I am afraid I showed no enthusiasm
of welcome. She sat in silence, and when I
made a motion to place the lamp nearer to
her and to set a little heap of books beside
her, so that she might occupy herself, she
moved me away contemptuously. Except
for an occasional tapping of the foot upon the
floor, which bespoke either anger or impatience,
she made no sound ; and when I
had offered one or two casual awkward observations

and had received no more sign of
heed or answer than if I had addressed a
graven image, I also relapsed into silence.
A half-hour of excessive discomfort — on my
side, at least — went by, and then came the
sound of a tuneful whistle which I knew for
Pole's. My companion recognised it also,
and rising to her feet stood facing the
door.

A mere moment later Pole leapt on the
deck, and the vessel swayed faintly. Then
the door opened, and I saw Pole's face lookin
with its usual aspect of idle insouciance.
Underlying that lazy, careless look there was
always an expression of waiting courage, and
I had always thought that Pole, if he were
really awakened, would be an awkward
enemy. His eyes blazed into swift anger ashe
caught sight of the waiting figure, but he
resumed his usual look almost at once. He
stuck his hands into his pockets and nodded
at me, presenting so complete a picture of
his common self that I was more than half

inclined to doubt my impression of a few
seconds earlier.

That you, Adelaide ? ' he said. ' I'll walk
to the railway station with you. We'll talk
as we go.'

She answered never a word, but followed
him into the darkness.

When Pole came back again In the course of
about an hour, he began to swing his hammock
and otherwise to prepare for the night.
For my own part, I had to pretend to be not
in the least interested by his visitors, but I
knew that my manner seemed odd and constrained,
and my very desire that he should
notice nothing seemed at last insistent and
impertinent. I arranged my own hammock,
and drew the curtain which separated us for
the night across the chamber, but I had only
just addressed myself to sleep when he drew
it back again and addressed me. The gleam
of his pipe shone in the darkness, and revealed
his eyes and the tip of his nose by occasional
glimpses.

Did that woman tell you anything, Den-ham
? ' he asked.

'Nothing,' I answered. 'She asked for
you, and when I told her you had gone to
town she said she would wait.'

Was she here long before I came ? '

About half an hour.'

He was silent for a minute or two, but
smoking furiously, as I could see through the
darkness, by the alternate glow and fading of
the pipe.

I don't know why I shouldn't tell you,'
he said, at the end of this pause. ' You'll
hold your tongue about it.'

If you want to tell me anything that you
want kept secret it shall never be talked
about.'

Very well. That's my wife.'

I think I was too astonished to reply. He
was quiet for a time, and then he laughed
oddly.

We were married four years ago. I remember
tipping the pew-opener. She let off

an old joke on me : " You've tied a knot with
your tongue that you can't undo with your
teeth." '

He laughed again in the same odd way as
before, and I made no answer. I did not see
what could be said to be of service. My
head whirled, and I thought of all sorts of
ridiculous things, congratulations and condolences,
but luckily none of them passed my
lips. Pole said no more. I heard him lay
his pipe down carefully, and I heard him
settling himself in his hammock. Then I
listened to the lap of the water on the boat
and the stir and rustle of the leaves which
hung above the roof, and the nibbling of a
lonely rat who had his home in the well, and
defied all our efforts to entrap him. I had
never until then felt so dreary and unhappy
in my life, and I lay awake the greater part
of the night thinking of Pole and pitying him,
and wondering what the history might be.

He was precisely like himself next morning,
and precisely like himself for many days

afterwards, and for a long time there was no
more said between us. I thought then, and
still think, that he took my silence as the
most friendly and acceptable thing I had to
offer, and that he liked me the better for it.
On his side the revelation of an unhappy
secret, and on my side the knowledge of it,
seemed to draw us closer. But he seemed
to desire that I should treat the revelation as
if I had forgotten it, and with every day it
grew to be less possible to speak of it. So
between us we buried it for the time.

If I have not conveyed a sufficing picture
of the woman, my feeling about Pole's union
with her will seem exaggerated, unless indeed
the feeling itself be translated into the picture,
and is seen as a reasonable part of it. I have
now lived twice the years I had then known,
and have seen the world of men and women
far and wide, but I have never met anything
to equal the hate and pride and self-disdain
of her face. ' I know you hate me. Well, I
hate you, and despise you, and I hate myself

and all the world.' The proud eyes, and the
haggard, painted face said these things plainly,
and never failed to say them in my imagination
when I recalled her. A dreadful, hateful,
ruined face. A woman to pity and avoid.

Naturally enough, she had not seemed so
dreadful at first as she became when I knew
of Pole's connection with her. We pass
people in the street every day with absolutely
no feeling, who would inspire us with
an awful terror and aversion if they were in
any way wound about our own lives, or the
lives of our friends.

Then, naturally enough again, I began to
regard my friend with different eyes, and
with new light upon him began to see and
to understand things which I had not hitherto
noticed. His ordinary idle and tranquil ways
deceived me no more, and I saw in him chiefly
a settled determination not to be cast down.
Being impelled to notice him as I was, I
began to see also that his apparent ease of
demeanour covered a good deal of shyness.

VOL. I H

His lounging air gave somehow an impression
of complete coolness and savoir faire,
but this on closer knowledge of him became
transparent. Perhaps in the warmth of my
sympathy I exaggerated what I saw in him,
but I began to think him far more sensitive,
more retiring and sympathetic, than a score
of people I knew who more or less laid claim
to these qualities, and I came to regard him
as a man rather unusually prone to suffer,
though uncommonly well able to conceal his
pains.

The regatta week came, the house-boat
was towed up to Henley, and Mr. Goldsmith
arrived with a great kit of the most
amazing, glaring river costumes I ever yet
beheld. Pole treated him with a remarkable
coolness, and yet on more than one occasion
I came upon them talking with great seriousness
and an air of confidence. Their conversation
always came to an immediate end with
my appearance, and somehow, without knowing
very precisely why, I associated Goldsmith

with Poles unhappy union, and supposed
that their talks together in some way related
to it.

There was no man on the river who was
quite as aquatic in his aspect as Goldsmith,
but he was the most useless of cockneys in a
boat. On the second day of the regatta he
was making prodigious efforts to get out of
the course, and was being objurgated from a
score of quarters at once, when he ran full
tilt into a very handsome and delicate craft,
in which were seated two ladies and a gentleman,
the latter very jovial to look at, but
short in temper as it proved. The handsome
craft was lying immediately below our house-boat,
and Pole, who had cast aside his usual
quiet for the moment, was roaring unheeded
instructions to the fat little Jew to back water
and to look where he was going, and so on.
The proprietor of the endangered craft was
vainly striving to get past the ladies to break
the shock of the advancing boat, when crash
it came, started a plank or two, and threw

the ladies and their companion into a struggling
heap. The gentleman first emerged
from the pile, and had a dreadful struggle
with himself not to say things which should
prejudice him for ever in the eyes of his
companions. I knew so well the kind of
relief for which his nature at that moment
clamoured, that I trembled for him. But ina
while he dared to give utterance to his
feelings.

Go home, sir,' he said to the wretched
Goldsmith. ' You have no business here ;
go home, sir.'

He spoke with a very loud voice, and laid
a tremendous emphasis on the aspirate in
home.'

Goldsmith, who had bumped the back of
his head on the bottom of the dingy —
he had a lump as large as a hen's ^^^ there
half an hour later — murmured in confused
apology.

'Go home, sir,' shouted the other; 'go
home.' And not a word beyond that would

the infuriate man trust himself to utter.
'Go home, sir; go home.'

Somehow the author of this disaster
scrambled aboard the house-boat, and so
drew upon Pole and myself the attention of
the crowd, and at the same time induced the
sufferer to include us with Goldsmith in a
common condemnation.

We went inside for a moment with Goldsmith,
who was half-stupid from the shock,
and then Pole returned to the angry man and
entered into speech with him.

I hope the boat isn't much injured,' I
heard him say. ' If you'll let me know the
amount of the damage I will see that it is
paid.'

Send him home, sir,' said the angr)^ man,
refusing at present to be mollified ; ' send him
home.'

Sir,' said Pole in slaves tones, 'he shall
be sent. I hope the ladies are not hurt.'

The ladies replied that they were not hurt
at all ; but looking through the window, I

was aware of one of them very ruefully regarding
a pretty straw hat which was crushed
out of all shape. Pole sympathised very
warmly, and I heard him insinuating that
really after that shock a glass of wine — he
must really be permitted. He must really
be allowed to insist. He came into the boat,
took a bottle of champagne which had been
lying in ice for luncheon, gathered some
glasses together, and went out again. I in
the meantime was preparing vinegar and
brown paper for Goldsmith, and doctoring
him as well as I could. He was dreadfully
sulky, and when I was finished with him, I
went outside and found Pole fraternising with
the three strangers, all politeness and regret
for the accident, and solicitude for the ladies.
The sufferer, all things considered, turned
out an extremely amiable fellow ; and what
between Pole's soothing and the champagne,
he came back to himself. He cast some
piteous glances at the boat, which was new
and of an expensive make, but he said no

more until Pole, after an audible altercation
with Goldsmith, brought the latter out to
apologise, and to promise all reasonable compensation.
But Goldsmith was unfortunate
in his way of putting the thing, and the
sufferer by his clumsiness was hard upon
him.

'It is not a matter for apology, sir,' he
said, ' or for compensation. You have no
business here. You had better take the
advice I gave you, and go home.'

I've apologised,' said Goldsmith, halfway
through his nose, 'and I've offered to
pay ; that's all one gentleman can do for
another, and if the other ain't reasonable
about it, all I've got to say is he's no gentleman.'


Then there was an altercation in which I
felt that I sounded the depths of shame, Mr.
Goldsmith conducted himself so little to my
fancy. It was ended by Pole, who bundled
the Jew into the interior of the boat.

We hired the thing from that fellow for

the season,' he explained, evidently not
caring any more than I did to be identified
with our companion. ' He made a point of
coming up to Henley, and I gave way. His
breaking your boat was an accident. Perhaps
the fact that he's a blackguard may be
accidental too.'

There was an exchange of cards between
Pole and the stranger, and then the damaged
boat was rowed away. Pole marched, with
every appearance of tranquillity, into the
presence of our guest and landlord, and
began, with a quiet dogmatism which must
have been painful and exasperating to Goldsmith,
to express his opinion of him.

'You are really,' he said, 'a very horrid
little person, and after your behaviour of today
I won't have you about.'

How could I help running into the man's
boat ? ' snarled Goldsmith. The cunning,
smiling, self-approving little man was all
changed, and he ruffled and swelled, and
grew red about the head like a turkey-cock.

You could have helped using bad language
before ladies,' said Pole.

No I couldn't,' said Goldsmith, who was
ready to contradict anything.

'That is a trifle worse than ever,' said
Pole. ' The man who cannot help using
bad language before ladies is a man to be
avoided. I must ask you to go.'

I won't go,' the little man almost
shrieked. ' It's my boat. I'll stop."

If you are not gone in half an hour,'
Pole responded, ' I shall drop you overboard.
I have spoken.'

At that we returned to the deck, and ina
while Goldsmith began to pack up his
effects. He interrupted himself to come out
and address us. He said it was part of the
bargain he had made that he was to have a
week at Henley. He had but three days,
and he demanded a guinea a day for four
days more. He added that he thought the
request was moderate.

Pole counted out four pounds four

shillings and dropped the money in his hand.
He took it with no evidence of shame and
went indoors to continue his packing. But
by and by he was back again, blazing.

Look here he began, ' you're taking a
very high and mighty air with me, Mr. Pole,
but I'll be even with you. I know a thing
or two that you don't think I know, and I'll
spoil your game, as sure as I'm alive. It
wasn't in my line to denounce anybody, let
alone a customer, but I'll spoil your game, assure
as I'm alive. Oh, you needn't stare at
me ! I ain't afraid of you. I haven't got
to do the thing myself. I've only got to put
the missis on to you. She'll jolly sharp put
a stopper on you, see if she don't. You go
fooling about with Miss Delamere anymore
'

Pole had been lolling against the doorpost,
regarding the man with a look of
complete indifference up to this, but here he
darted at him, and before another word was
spoken, and before I could intervene, Goldsmith

was splashing in the water. He came
up screaming and spouting, and swam toland,
and, standing on the bank, threatened
Pole in a most horrible manner, stamping
and spluttering with rage. All eyes were
turned, and all necks were craned to see
what was the matter. Pole pushed me indoors
and followed, closing the door behind
him, and when the Jew had screamed his
fill and had gathered an eager and excited
crowd, he was moved away. A man came,
half an hour later, from one of the hotels,
asking for his baggage.

I think,' said Pole, observing that a considerable
number of people still seemed to
linger near us, and to find us interesting and
curious, ' I have had enough of publicity for
to-day. I shall go up to chambers. Will
you come ? '

I assented willingly, and we went away
together. Neither he nor I made any
allusion to the quarrel, but it dwelt in my
mind heavily, and I was unable to forget it.

We went to a concert in the evening, but I
heard little of the music, and was wondering,
whether I would or no, what the Jew's
sayings might mean. Later on, in my
room, Pole opened his mind a little, but not
much.

I shall have some trouble over that
fellow,' he said, after guarding silence for a
full hour. 'He's a solicitor and moneylender,
and his father did some business
for my wife before we married, and seemed
really to have behaved kindly to her. When
we two had to go our separate ways I
wanted somebody to stand between us,
and make her the necessary payments, and
so forth. I went to look for the old man
and found the young one. He did as well
as anybody. The old man is dead, and the
young one has the business. Then my wife
is one of their own people. I shall have to
find somebody else, I suppose. I dare say
you wondered why I had him down at
Henley ?'

I did — a little — I confessed.

He has a curious Influence with my
wife. He can keep her quiet when nobody
else can. I thought she might find us out
at a place like Henley. I didn't want a
scene. He was to have looked out for her.
It's a melancholy sort of business, Isn't It ? '
he asked, as If he were merely tired.

I thought It very melancholy Indeed, and
answered so.

Well,' he said, shrugging his shoulders,
I've made my bed, and I must He on it.
It's all In the day's work. Good-night, old
chap.'

He would confess to nothing, would make
no show, but I thought how heartsore he
must be, and was profoundly sorry for him,
not for the last time. But whether I would
have it there or no, I could not get ]\IIss
Delamere's name out of my head, and my
mind strayed here and there In fruitless
conjecture. But I could think no 111 of
Pole, and certainly I could think no 111 of

the one Miss Delamere I knew. My dreams
defied me, and I saw Pole leading Miss
Delamere to the altar, and saw the Jew
pounce out from behind one pillar of the
building, whilst Pole's wife pounced out from
behind another, crying out so shrilly that
they awoke me.

After that I lay awake the greater part
of the night, wondering if Pole had fallen
in love with Miss Delamere in his unhappy
loneliness, and if that were the reason of
his avoidance of her.

About three weeks after the events just related,
when we had got our floating residence
back into its old quarters, there came up the
river, one lovely tranquil morning, a fussy
and important steam - launch, with a dozen
ladies and gentlemen aboard, and a bright
striped awning of pink and white and blue,
which shone very prettily and gaily in the
sunshine. Pole and I were waiting to enter
the lock when this vessel came screaming
along to signal to the lock-keeper,
and we were still there when she came
up. She halted alongside our quieter and
less imposing craft, and when the wet
gates swung slowly open and we passed
into the shadow and cool between the

gleaming walls, she glided slowly after
us.

We were just beginning to float upwards
when a female voice said, speaking above us,
Good-morning, Mr. Pole,' and looking up
I was aware of a white-haired elderly lady
who was bending over the rail of the launch
and smiling downwards. Pole snatched off
his cap and smiled back again, and was
exchanging greetings with her when no
less a person than Sebastian Dolmer Jones
appeared beside her, and waved a friendly
hand to both of us.

'This is lucky,' said Jones, 'we are two
men short. Come on board. We are going
as far as Pangbourne. Leave your boat
here. You can call for it on your way back.
We are going to have a jolly day and leave
dull care behind us.'

Pray come, Mr. Pole,' said the elderly
lady. ' We are lamentably short of gentlemen.'


Then two or three other people whom

Pole knew, but who were strange to me,
joined very cordially in this invitation, and
we had just confessed that we had nothing
particular to do, and were not bound
especially anywhere, when Mr. Delamere
and his daughter, neither of whom had
hitherto come within our range of vision,
appeared also. Mr. Delamere blessed us,
as it were, from his superior height, and
said —

Glad to see you, Pole. Glad to see you.
Glad to see yotc, Denham. Glad to see you.
Come on board, by all means. By all
means, come on board.'

As if he waived all possible objections
which somebody was going to offer to our
society, and were quite resolved not to hear
them spoken of It was, of course, too late
to hesitate, and so we went on board, though
I did so with mixed feelings. Pole shook
hands with ]mr. Delamere with a rather chill
politeness, I thought ; but then I was looking
out for that, and I dare say that nobody else
VOL. I 1

noticed it. I had not time for the moment
to remark anything further. Mr. Jones
took me round and told me people's names,
and told people my name, in that pleasant
and simple fashion which then obtained.
The old fashion had at least the merit of
preventing nervous young men and women,
who thought they must be entertaining, from
saying smart things to the wrong people and
about the wrong people.

Then I had to give instructions to the
lock-keeper about the boat, and when this
was done we all steamed away together up
the sunny river, and I had time to look about
me, and see what manner of people I had
fallen amongst. They all seemed agreeable
and amiable and bent upon enjoying themselves,
and, with the exception of Mr. Delamere
and the lady who had first accosted
Pole, the party was entirely composed of
young and youngish people.

Miss Delamere was talking to Pole,
and he was answering her in a manner to

dissipate any fancies of romance between
them.

You have developed a very unlooked-for
characteristic, Mr. Pole,' she said, with that
air of harmless impudence which we all think
so charming in a beautiful girl. ' You grow
retiring.'

'Grow!' answered Pole, with equal lightness
and gaiety of demeanour. ' I am grown.
Denham and I are hermits. We are a sort
of double Diogenes. You passed our tub a
quarter of a mile below the lock.'

Is your choice of the life final .'^' she asked
him smilingly. ' Are your friends never to
see you again ?'

We have forgotten the world,' he
answered, with a slight humorous exaggeration
of tone, 'and supposed ourselves forgotten
by it. Perhaps when nature grows
unkind we may be driven back to the world
we have abjured. I don't know yet how
strong we are.'

Nature at her severest did not drive you

our way in the winter time,' she said, smiHng
and nodding her head at him.

Pole's gaiety failed him for a mere second,
and he blushed and looked guilty.

'Now, Mr. Denham,'said Miss Delamere,
withdrawing her attack on Pole in what I
thought a very ready and graceful way —
though it was my habit by this time to think
very highly of this young lady and of all she
might do — ' Mr. Denham has been delightfully
regular. You, I trust,' addressing me-directly,
' are not going to turn permanent
hermit.'

I thought not, looking at the bright eyes
and beautiful face. Not the presence of all
the Dolmer Jones's and elderly male Delamere
in the world could rob a room of its
charm whilst that delightful countenance
decorated it. I left these reflections unspoken,
but I assured her that I had no intention
of turning hermit at all — that on the
whole I was rather fond of the world, and
thought it an agreeable sort of place.

'When I was little,' said Miss Delamere,
I was told that it was very stimulating to
virtue to let it be plainly seen and known
that people were expected to be good. You
are expected to be very good to-day, Mr.
Pole.'

I will try,' he answered, * to make the
expectation stimulating. In point of fact, I
will be good.'

He did in effect become exceedingly bright
and gay, and was spoken of as being a great
acquisition. There is always at a picnic
somebody who is described as being the life
and soul of the party, and Pole set all the
young people chaffing and laughing so successfully,
that before the day was over that
title was his by common consent. Mr. Delamere'
s high-bred and lofty quiet would have
sat a little heavily on some of us, I fancy,
had it not been for his detested's presence.
Only every now and again to my mind Pole
seemed to flag and to go unusually gloomy.
It needed but a word to bring him back to

his air of gaiety, and he said a hundred
bright things, not of the sort which are
worth keeping and will sparkle in any setting,
but of the smaller sort which make
people laugh when they are disposed to
laughter, but might seem perhaps a little
poor and commonplace if they were recorded.
They were Paris brilliant perhaps, but then
they made no pretence of being Koh-i-noors,
and in that sunlight of youth and high
spirits and summer holiday they sparkled, as
I remember, very brightly. This was a new
side of him to me, and the sight of it set me
thinking gravely once or twice how very
happy and handsome and genial he might
have been if that dark chapter of his life I
knew of had never been written.

After luncheon there was displayed a tendency
which I had remarked before, and
have since observed at such gatherings — a
tendency, namely, to get into couples, and to
wander away from the centre. Pole and
Miss Delamere were companions, and for my

own part I was attracted by haphazard to
the society of a certain Miss Clara Grantly,
in speaking of whom I shall have to be careful,
since the lady's eye will assuredly rest
upon these pages, and her introduction to
this narrative is already expected. She was,
then, the most charming young person of her
sex whom I had yet had the pleasure of beholding.
I established my own discernment
by almost immediately falling in love with
her, and I shall remember that sunlit river
and those happy fields as long as I remember
anything. She was only eighteen and I was
barely half a dozen years older, so that we
were both very young, and we were both
certainly very shy. Shyness is less the
fashion among young people than it used to
be, I fancy.

I remember that at first we talked mostly
about Pole, and that I spoke very highly of
him. She told me that a brother of hers,
then in India, had been at school with Pole,
and was very fond of him. I answered that

everybody must be ; and so, with Pole as a
kind of conversational walking-stick, we began
to get along together very nicely. It
dawned upon me at moments that the young
lady was very pretty, and I had the sense to
think myself a lucky dog in having secured
a partner in all ways so agreeable. She had
blue-gray eyes and hair of a golden-yellowish
hue, a beauty which has grown much more
common than it used to be before the chemist
came in and invented an auriferous hair-wash.
I do not believe that in those ancient
days that delusive compound had been invented
— ladies should be told that we of
the other sex are always able to distinguish
art from nature in that particular — and even
if it had been, my companion was one of the
people who are favoured by nature with the
best of all possible reasons for not using it.
She had a very fair complexion and a freckle
or two, which to my thinking made the
fairness prettier to look at. I shall abide
by the freckles, whatever editorial revision

may be attempted. I remember them distinctly.


This charming young person had a mother
who was something of an invalid, and was in
the country for her health. They were great
friends of the Delameress ; and sirs. Delameress
(who had been dead for many years)
and mamma had been schoolgirls together.
So now the charming young person was staying
in the Delameress' house, and Miss Delameress
had care of her. She did not seem
ver)' much to like Mr. Delamere, which, in its
way, was a sort of bond of union between
us, and she said she did not think Jones was
ver' nice, which was indisputably another.
She had some awe of Delamere, whom she
regarded as being supernaturally learned and
clever, but she thcHjght he undervalued the
other kinds of learning and cleverness which
other people had. Jones and he seemed to
be very great friends indeed, and Jones was a
great deal about the house ; in fact he almost
lived there. Her tone seemed to express

something of a regret for this fact ; at least
I so construed it, and it soothed me. I
should have been disappointed in a girl
otherwise so charming if she had liked
Jones.

We strolled about that beautiful afternoon,
and I sculled her about the river, where she
was at first a little timid, though she soon
grew accustomed and fearless, and became
interested in learning to steer. I should
have been an egregious young coxcomb if I
had at this time even begun to have a notion
of what was really happening to me, but I
took the fever naturally, and at first kindly.
There never had been surely so charming a
companion. There never had been such a
pretty girl. And so far that was all.

Now, I myself am, if I may be forgiven for
mentioning the fact, a swarthy man of a
muddy complexion, and, as old experience
proves, therefore all the likelier to find blue-gray
eyes and yellowish hair and rosy cheeks
not peony, if you please, but rosy, the

most delicate, wholesome, rose-leaf bloom in
the world — I was all the more likely, I say,
to find these charms attractive and supreme.
And then, of course, I admired the shy,
gentle, sweet nature and the arch, timid
face, and had never known anything so delightful.
And whether you like to believe it
or not, madame, for whose especial behoof
this page is, and one or two that have preceded
it are written, I had never fallen in
love before. That is in any way worth speaking
of.

We found in a while two others of our
party on the bank, but whether they preferred
solitude or were too benevolent to
spoil our enjoyment, they declined our hypocritical
invitation to join us, and strolled
away among the trees ; and, like the Ancient
Mariner with the water-snakes, I blessed
them unaware.

It was altogether a day to remember, but
it faded as all days will. The steam-whistle
sounded, and we all assembled at the launch,

and went away down stream again. I hoped
with all my heart all the time that Miss
Delamere would give me an invitation, and
I was, I am afraid, very ingratiatory with
her. She gladdened me by doing what I
wanted very kindly and graciously. So
pretty a girl, and so charming a companion !
I wanted to see as much of that beauty as I
could, and to have more of that charming
companionship.

At the lock where we had met them all
we took leave of them. A mile or two farther
down stream they would betake themselves
to the rail, and so back to town and
dinner. Pole and I, perched on the lock
gate, waved farewell with our caps so long
as we could see the flutter of the departing
handkerchiefs. There had been a jolly affectation
of heart-break between Pole and the
old lady at losing one another, and it was
because of this that the signals of good-bye
were thus prolonged.

Whilst we were still waving and smiling

we turned to look at each other, and waved
and smiled no more. We both went mighty
solemn with a ludicrous suddenness. When
we looked at each other next we laughed,
but oh ! we were serious afterwards. We
pulled down to our aquatic residence, and
went gloomily about our business of cooking
and eating. The pleasant day was over.

We lit our pipes and sat in the twilight,
whilst the land grew duskier and duskier,
and the stars grew brighter and brighter.
And one of us was filled with I don't know
how many hopes and projects and fancies.
There was the magic cauldron which Youth,
Health, Hope, and Co. will lend to anybody,
and all the projects and fancies bubbling in
it. and I watching for the projection, and the
consequent wonderful wildfowl. And here
was the other of us looking at the magic
cauldron cracked and dry, and beyond refilling
or mending. Strange how near we can
be to one another, and how far away !

A DAY or two later, when I told Pole that
I had received an invitation to Cromwell
Terrace, he made no answer beyond that
which might be conveyed in an enigmatical
grunt. But a week further on, when I went
up to chambers, he accompanied me, and in
the evening, somewhere about ten o'clock,
just as I was about to set off, he turned up,
dressed, and announced that he was going
with me. I was very glad to have him, and
I supposed that, after the day on the launch,
he had made up his mind that Delamere's
society was bearable, and had effected his
peace with Delamere's daughter.

The house was crowded, and there was
the greatest difficulty in getting about.

There had been a highly select and distinguished
dinner-party, and now there was
such a cram as, in my limited experience,
I had not seen. The stairs were full, the
conservatory half-way up was full, the landings
were full, and the rooms were only a
thought less crowded. Pretty Miss Grantly
was talking to a bald-headed old gentleman
in the very last corner I came to, and she
gave me a blush and a smile of recognition
when she caught sight of me. The corner
was defended — barricaded, as it were — by
two big china jars, of the shape of a cask,
and a capacity, as I should judge, of some
twelve gallons. One of these made a sufficiently
comfortable seat ; and when the old
gentleman (who may have had the surprising
good sense to think that a couple of young
people who greeted each other blushing and
smiling might be as happy without him as
with him) — when the old gentleman had
withdrawn through a momentary crack in
the crowd, I took the seat he had vacated,

and entered into talk about the water party
of a little while ago, and other matters of
equal interest and moment.

This, of course, was all very delightful,
but was not allowed to last. I felt a hand
laid upon my shoulder, and looking up saw
the venerable Dr. Fish beside me beaming
through his gold-rimmed glasses. He shuffled
into our corner, and with no doubt the most
benevolent intentions, he stayed there and
talked until Miss Grantley slipped away.
Then I, not daring to follow, and being
held by this nice old man by the lappet
of the coat whilst I thought unutterable
things of him, sat there in silent torture
for a time and answered, I fear, very much
at random. But by and by he interested
me.

I see Pole here again,' he said. ' I am
glad to see him here. You will meet people
here, Denham, who will improve your mind.
Pole is looking very well. You and he are
great companions, I believe } '

'Oh yes I answered, 'we are great
friends.'

I am very glad of that,' he went on.
Of course no honest man will choose his
friends because they are rich and influential ;
but wealth and influence are valuable things,
and rightly used, you know, Denham, rightly
used '

He rubbed his hands and looked seriously
and sagely at me.

I had not known that Pole's wealth, or his
influence either, was at all beyond the common,
and I said as much ; but the Doctor
broke in eagerly.

My dear young sir, don't you know that
there is but a single life between him and
the title ? You didn't know ? Dear me !
It's quite a vast fortune — really an exceptional
thing ! You didn't know that .-^ Dear
me ! How reticent your friend must be ! '

I admitted that my friend was reticent ;
but I urged that human life was a somewhat
uncertain thing to build calculations upon,

VOL. I K

and that Pole was about the last man I knew
to speculate upon it.

Oh dear, dear no,' said Doctor Fish,
shaking his head with a mournful look ;
there is no such extreme element of uncertainty
as you imagine, Mr. Denham. The
remaining life is dreadfully frail ; the poor
fellow is hardly expected to last a year —
they're moving him to the Riviera now, I
believe.'

This was news certainly ; but I was not in
the least degree surprised that Pole had said
nothing of it. I thought it indeed most
natural m him to be silent.

It helped to make him more of a personage
in my eyes, but not as I fancy the good old
Doctor meant it to do. It seemed certainly
to make his position the more pitiable, though
this was assuredly to take a most unjust and
foolish view of things, for to be wealthy and
to hold a place of high consideration in the
world are at least among the aids to happiness.
But the promise of wealth and rank

seemed to emphasise his trouble. The smile
of fortune's sunshine did but throw the shade
into more sombre relief I did not ask
whether it would do so for him ; it did it
for me in my conception of him.

I learned that the owner of the life which
stood between Pole and the title was a cousin
Reginald of his, who had been always reckoned
feeble. This Reginald's father had
been dead but a few months. He was a
stalwart man of middle age, and when he
came to his end by an accident in the 
had been upon the eve of a second
marriage. Three years earlier, the Doctor
told me, no man would have given a shilling
for Pole's chance, but four sound lives had
fallen unexpectedly away, and now there was
nobody left but this cousin, who had been
bred as a stranger to him.

When I had time to think of it, I liked
Pole the better for not having spoken to me
of this matter. It argued a certain delicacy
in him to be silent. I knew, and I still

know, a great many men who would have
been loud about it, and would have basked
in their glories beforehand, whose feet would
have itched for the feeble man's shoes.

The Doctor found me out later that evening
and told me that he had heard news of
Reginald Pole. There was little hope for
him. The doctors had decided that he should
go southwards, but by very easy stages, and
the hand of death, so the old gentleman
said impressively, seemed on the poor boy
already.

Delamere told me of it,' said Dr. Fish.
He had spoken of the poor lad who had
come so near to high fortune and was now
slipping away from it into an early grave
with becoming solemnity ; but here, at the
mention of Delamere, he began to twinkle.
Our host,' he said, ' will be glad to see Pole
back again now, I fancy. I hardly know
how it came about ; but I fancy they took a
dislike to each other. But Delamere won't
throw away a chance like that. Of course

Delamere's a very high-minded man and so
forth, and has a very lofty idea of Hfe, but
I suppose he has no objection to seeing Miss
Delamere well settled. He is distinctly more
amiable to Pole than he used to be. That is
how the world goes, my young friend. Do
well, thrive, get on in the world, and you
will find people agreeable to you.'

He went on, eminently well satisfied with
himself, and I listened in a sort of stupor.
That awful marriage of Pole's was a secret.
Nobody knew of it who knew him well.

I am getting elderly,' said the babbling
and indiscreet divine, who was certainly old
enough to have known better than to take so
close an interest as he did in other people's
affairs, I thought. ' I am elderly, but I feel
an interest in youth. I am looking on at a
good many things with a great deal of pleasure.
Do me the credit to remember this
enigmatical utterance in a year or two's
time, Denham, and ask me what I meant
by it.'

I think I know what you mean, sir,' I
returned.

Do you ? ' he asked, nodding his benevolent
bald head and smiling. ' Ah ! you're
a friend of his. Exactly.'

I think you are altogether wrong, sir,'
I said ; * I am sure you are altogether wrong.
Pray do not spread any idea of that kind.'

Pooh, pooh ! ' responded the Doctor. ' I
have known them both for years. I have
seen it growing on both sides.'

1 spoke before I knew it, and the Doctor
stared at me.

I hope not ; oh, I hope not ! '

Dear me,' he said, in some confusion.
Let us change the theme.' He took me
very kindly and confidentially by the arm,
and gave his grip a little friendly pressure.
I beg your pardon, my boy, I beg your
pardon. I am a foolish, indiscreet old fellow.
There, there, let us say no more ; let us say
no more.'

I thought it best to leave him to any fancy

he might form. The question was dangerous.
If he chose to think that I was in love with
Miss Delamere, it mattered Httle ; and since
he was so ready to leap at conclusions, it was
likely that his suspicions about Pole to the
same effect were as well founded as they
were of me. I am inclined to think — if I
may take advantage of the liberty this narrative
affords me — that I was rather an
unusual young man in some respects, and
that I took rather unusually serious views of
things. But the idea of Pole and Miss Delamere
really growing to care for each other,
with that insuperable barrier between them,
was terrible.

There was never the faintest little doubt
of Pole's honour in my mind. If there had
been a reasonable ground for thinking that
Miss Delamere had had a fancy concerning
him, such as an innocent girl might not have
about a man who was already married, I
believed that he would have cut his hand
off, or burned it in the fire, rather than encourage

it to her damage. I had so lofty a
belief in his honour, and made him so much
of a hero in my mind, that any thought of
carelessness in this regard in him was outside
my conjectures. And as for mere coxcombry,
I was a very much smaller creature
than Pole, and even I despised it. What
was he likely to feel about it ?

Now if anybody thinks that the pressure
of these reflections kept me for more than
ten minutes at the outside from seeking
anew the charming society of Miss Clara
Grantley, he gives me credit for an unselfishness
of friendship to which I lay no claim.
Pole's affairs interested me very deeply, and
I was growing more and more attached to
him, but I was not quite shut out from the
contemplation of my own affairs.

The crowd was not so dense as it had
been, and I was able to make my way about
the rooms without so much of diplomatic
effort as I had been compelled to exert
earlier in the evening. As I moved about,

looking for Miss Grantley, I saw Pole in
conversation with our hostess. Miss Delamere
summoned me by a smile and a wave
of her fan, and I joined them for a few
minutes. There was nothing very noticeable
in their talk, and certainly nothing in
their bearing towards each other which
would indicate more than the merest amiable
acquaintanceship.

I succeeded in finding Miss Grantley —
there is a pleasure in using that obsolete
form — and I fell more pronounced and
decidedly in love with every minute spent in
her society. It was all pleasant, all charming
as yet, and I had not the slightest intention
to struggle against the influence which
was stealing over me. Time came when I
got into a state of mind no less than dreadful,
and could not eat my meals.

Pole and I walked home together. We
started in starlight, but before we got home
the sky was light above us, and its ethereal
blue was lined with beautiful faint streaks of

rose. We talked a great deal as we walked,
and one thing that Pole said I recalled many
and many a time afterwards.

The best way with danger is to treat it
as if you did not believe in it.'

If a man aimed a pistol at your head,
you'd dodge, wouldn't you?' I asked him;
or strike up the weapon, or behave in someway
as if you believed in the danger ?'

'Exactly,' he said; 'there is no saying
so wise that you can't make it look foolish
by a question of that sort. But I'm not
talking of pistols, though even there you
may come to grief if you believe too much
in danger. Come along, my Denham.
Shoulders square. Head well up. March !
And your blood-curdling fever is flown ten
miles away.'

He clapped me on the shoulder, and we
turned into the courtyard together at that
instant.

All the same,' I said, ' it isn't good
counsel for everybody. There are some

whose nerves might fail at the pinch, and for
them it might be safest to treat danger as if
they believed in it very earnestly. Spare
the weaker vessel. Don't tow her into action
too desperately.'

He turned to look at me as if he sought to
read some special meaning in my words, and
knowing that his eyes were upon me I felt
confused. I had not meant it so, but remembering
Dr. Fish's talk, it flashed upon
me that Pole might accept my chance simile
as an impertinent warning. The more I
blushed the more he looked at me, and
the more he looked the more confused I
felt.

What did you mean by that ? ' he
asked.

Nothing!' I said; * absolutely nothing
when I said it. But you seemed to find a
meaning in it.'

And so you find a meaning in it, too,
eh?'

I made some gesture with my hands to

signify that the thing was not worth thinking
of, and stammered something to that
effect.

Come inside,' he said ; ' let us have a talk
about this.'

I WENT Upstairs to Pole's chamber feeling
guilty and ashamed, though I was altogether
innocent. He lit the gas — for the dawn
without had not yet found its way into his
chambers — took off his overcoat, chose a
cigar, and seated himself, all with quiet deliberation,
and then spoke.

My finding a meaning seemed to help
you to find a meaning. That is — if I found
one. Let us have it out, John.'

It was by no means easy to have it out.

My dear Pole,' I said, ' I meant nothing
whatever beyond the plain sense of the words
I used.'

'Quite so,' he answered. 'You won't
think so ill of me as to fancy I'm angry because

you have your own thoughts about
me. But I want to know what they are.'

'Well,' I told him, after a moment's uneasy
thinking, ' the best thing for you to do
will be to ask me exactly what you want to
know, and I will answer you quite honestly.'

You asked me — innocently and as a mere
figure of speech — not to tow the weaker
vessel into danger. Then, on my looking at
you, you identified the weaker vessel so
clearly that you seemed to yourself to have
been guilty of an impertinence.'

That is exactly what happened.' I was
grateful to him for translating me so perfectly.


Have you yourself noticed anything that
would lead you to suppose that I was towing
anybody into danger's'

There was a slight flush upon his face, and
I could see that it was difficult for him to ask
the question.

I have noticed nothing that would lead
me to that opinion,' I answered.

Then the idea has been put into your
head by somebody else ?'

'Yes.'

May I ask who the somebody is ?'

I would rather not say. It was said in
perfect friendship, and in something very like
congratulation.'

And you believed it ?' he asked.

'No. I can't say I believed it. I had
seen nothing to justify me in believing it."

I suppose it was Fish who spoke to you
of it ? Never mind. Don't answer if you
don't care to. He is not the wisest of mankind,
but he is a very Q^ood old foolish sort
of fellow, and loves to chatter. You and I
are getting to be very close friends, and I
can say things to you that I can't say to anybody
else. I left oft' visiting Delamere's
house not in the least degree because I disliked
the man, though I do dislike him very
heartily, but because I thought I was getting
into danger. I went back again because,
after a good deal of thinking about it, 1

came to the conclusion that I was not Hkely
to get into danger. There is the whole
story.'

There was one side of the story, I
thought, but I said nothing. A man would
have to come to something of an extremity
in coxcombry before he would hide himself
from the society of women he cared for lest
they should fall hopelessly in love with him.
Pole was as little likely to be affected in that
way as anybody I could call to mind, and as
for the old doctor, with his statement that
he had seen affection growing on both sides,
I declined to value him at all. I had seen
Miss Delamere and Pole together twice, had
noticed pretty closely, and was quite sure
that she at least was heart-whole. I had been
determined to be sure of it, but could really
find nothing in the world to contradict my
surety.

I dare say,' Pole went on after a pause,
that you are still in the land of romance,
John. I left it some time ago. I was kicked

out of it, and am in no hurry to pass its
borders again. Perhaps I might like to go
back — to speak plain truth — if there were
any chance of doing it. But the fox was
wise after all, and when the grapes are out
of reach, one can't do better than think
them sour. When you have been flung
downstairs and have had the door slammed
behind you, it's sensible to believe that
you don't want the entree to the establishment.'


The dawn was broadening now. and the
gas-lamp had taken a sickly tinge. He rose
and turned out the light, and threw the
window open and leaned out. A solitary
footstep which had sounded dimly until then
struck sharply on the ear. A key tapped
smartly upon the iron bars of the gate which
separated the court from the inn, and I heard
the door of the porter's box open, and the
porter's yawn. I got up and stood by Pole's
side, and looked down into the courtyard.
A lite old gentleman in black was standing

VOL. I L

at the gate, and the porter was in the act of
unlocking it. The gate swung open, and
the little old gentleman looked up casually ashe
started to pass through. He paused with
a startled air and spoke.

May I step up to your rooms for a
moment, Mr. Pole ?'

Certainly, sir,' Pole answered, and the
old gentleman entered briskly at the open
door below. Pole threw open his own door
to receive him, and he came briskly up the
stairs.

I had certainly not expected to find you
awake at such an hour,' he said, ' but I
looked up at your chambers in passing because
you were in my mind. I have just
come from the death-bed of your poor cousin
Reginald.'

His death-bed ?' Pole asked, in a voice
which sounded awe-struck.

His death-bed,' the old gentleman answered.
' Lord Worborough and other relatives
were already in town, intending to

see him off this morning to the Riviera. He
was seized with a terrible fit of coughing,
and broke a blood-vessel at two o'clock yesterday
afternoon. Everything was done that
could be done, but he died half an hour
ago.'

Pole looked round at me very seriously,
and then looked back to his visitor, but said
nothing.

I do not know if I am personally known
to you, Mr. Pole ?' the visitor went on interrogatively.
Pole shook his head. ' Allow
me to offer you my card. I am Lord Marlborough's
solicitor.' Pole took the card, and,
having glanced at it, laid it quietly upon the
table. ' I was charged to carry to you the
melancholy intelligence, and to express to
you his lordship's desire to meet you at your
earliest convenience. I think,' he said hesitatingly,
* that you are not as yet known to
each other ?'

I have never met Lord Worborough,'
Pole answered. His voice and face were still

very solemn, and though he was not in anyway
shaken by the tidings, it was evident
that they moved him deeply.

His lordship will himself write to you
tomorrow, and you will of course attend the
funeral.'

Of course, Mr. Fairfield,' said Pole, again
glancing at the card beside him.

I would not have intruded at this hour,'
said the solicitor, ' but for the accident of
seeing you at the window. I do not think
I have anything more to say at present, but
I will ask you for an interview tomorrow.
At what hour may I call V

Pole gave him an appointment at noon,
the two then shook hands, and Mr. Fairfield,
with a slight bow to me, took his leave
and went briskly down the stairs. My
friend and I sat down facing each other,
and for a while neither of us spoke. Pole
was the first to break silence.

This is a strange thing to have happened,'
he said. * I hardly knew the poor

fellow, and his dying — if I should live a year
or two longer — makes me rich, I don't know
how rich, and gives me a title. Poor
fellow !' He pulled thoughtfully at his cigar
and went on talking. ' I used to have
dreams when I was a boy of being great and
rich. I had a sort of fanciful notion that I
should meet somebody one day who would
tell me that I had been reared for my own
good under false pretences, and that I was
Duke or Prince of something somewhere.
I was to have passed my probation and have
come out triumphant, and then the truth
was to come as my reward.' He got up
and threw the cigar into the courtyard, and
then closed the window. Then he fell to
walking up and down with his hands in his
pockets. ' I've passed my probation and
come out a failure, and here's the announcement.
Poor Peggy! I'd rather he'd have
lived. I feel as if fate were having a satiric
grin at me. '* Here you are, my boy. You've
thrown away all the chances you had to

Start with, and now here's the biggest prize
in the basket for you. There are thousands
who'd jump at it, and it's no good to you.
Take it"'

You don't deserve that you should say
these things of yourself or think them,' I
replied. 'You are not answerable for your
troubles.'

I don't know,' he resumed, still walking
up and down. ' I believe I knew as well
at the time as I know it now that I was
marrying a woman who could make no man
happy. There's a kind of sane madness,
Denham, which some men suffer from. I
knew I wasn't going to be happy. I more
than guessed that I was going to wreck
myself I didn't even particularly care for
her, but I felt myself bound in honour, and
I married her. Well, it's of no use to talk,
and I know that also. I haven't bored anybody
else with it. You're the only man I
ever opened my lips to.'

He would not say — of course he would

not say — what this meant, but I knew it. I
had begun to think of late that amidst the
crowd of his acquaintance he counted a single
friend, and that I was the man. I knew
I loved him, but in those days I thought
disparagingly of myself. That early modesty
has developed (as it often does) into rather
more than an average certainty of personal
merit. As a matter of fact, it arose from
my fear lest I might think as highly of myself
as I somehow thought I ought to do.
But I was uncertain of my own deserts, and
thought his friendship a high honour, as any
man might have done. As honest, valiant,
and stalwart a heart as ever beat, I know
he had.

We said good-night to each other after
this with no renewal of our earlier conversation,
and I went down to my rooms, and so to
bed. He was closeted with the lawyer for an
hour or two, I learned afterwards, and in the
evening he went by appointment to see Lord
Worborough. I myself made the elderly

peer's acquaintance a week later, after Reginald
Pole's funeral. He called at Warwick
Court when I happened to be in Pole's rooms
a bent, courteous, mild old man, with an
affectionate, sad smile. I was introduced to
him, and was received with an unexpected
cordiality.

Mr. Pole has spoken to me of you, Mr.
Denham,' he said. ' I am very pleased to
meet you. You would seem to be great
friends, you two young gentlemen. I do not
find that I make many friends nowadays, and
I have outlived most of the old ones.'

He watched Pole rather closely, as I
noticed, and wore, to my mind, an air of
criticism. It was natural that he should
desire to know what manner of man was
coming after him, though it was out of his
power to alter the succession.

I came here, Walter, on purpose to ask
you to come down into the country and stay
with me a while,' he said, looking from one to
the other of us. * I want your friend to come

also. One judges a man by the company he
keeps. It would be a shame to ask a pair of
young fellows out Into the country at this time
of year under ordinary circumstances, but you
see, Walter, you can naturally go nowhere
and do nothing for a time, and it will be well
that we should know each other. You will
come, Mr. Denham ? When do you think,
Walter, that you and your friend can be
ready ? '

For my own part, I was a good deal taken
aback by this unexpected invitation, but I
accepted It, and we arranged that all three of
us should go down to Worborough Court
next day. The old lord stayed and talked
for an hour or two. He was bookish In an
old-fashioned way. He had read no theology
newer than Paley, no philosophy later than
Locke, no fiction since Sir Walter's, and no
verse since Byron's. All the new people
were mere names to him, and he did not care
to make their acquaintance ; but he was
pleased to find that we knew his favourites

as well as he did, a lite better, perhaps, with
our fresher memories, and he told us simply
that he was glad to find that we were not
trivial-minded.

Books are a great resource,' he said, with
his mild smile. ' I don't read much now, but
I find a pleasure in remembering. Something
put Commodore Trunnion into my head as I
drove down here, and I laughed. I hardly
knew poor Reginald,' he added suddenly with
an almost alarmed air of apology and explanation.
' He was so confirmed an invalid.'

When he had gone away, Pole and I set
to work to pack in readiness for the morrow's
journey, and next day we met the old lord at
Haddington at the appointed hour, and went
down into Devonshire. A carriage awaited
us, and a brake for our baggage, and leaving
the latter to follow us, we were bowled away
through a wide road with beautiful overhanging
hedges until the lodge gates were thrown
open to us and we swept into a splendid
avenue of forest trees.

'There is the first gHmpse of the house,'
said Lord Worborough, laying one hand upon
his successor's arm, and pointing with the
other, with a long withered white finger extended,
the delicate old hand trembling. ' It
is a very noble old place, and I hope you will
be happy there when your time comes.'

There was something touching, to mv
mind, in this informal handing over, as it
were, of the ancestral place to the young
fellow who until lately had been so complete
a stranger.

Pole looked at the house, and Lord Marlborough,
with his gold-rimmed pince-nez
balanced on his nose, looked at Pole with that
air of watchful regard I had noticed the day
before.

'Yes,' said the heir-apparent, ' it is a noble
old place.' He had been unusually thoughtful
and quiet during the whole journey, and now
there was a settled shadow upon him.

I saw, as we came nearer, that it was
indeed a noble old place. It had a westward

aspect, and all its long lines of windows shone
like burnished gold in the light of the declining
sun, gleaming the brighter by contrast
with their sombre setting of purplish brown
tone. Pole sighed as he stepped from the
carriage.

I shall leave you now,' said our host ashe
entered the hall. He drew out his watch
and consulted it. ' Forty-five minutes to
dinner. Ample time.'

We were shown to rooms which were incommunication
with each other, and when the
servants had brought up our luggage, and
everything was laid out in readiness, we were
left alone. Pole marched through the open
doors of the two intervening dressing-rooms
into my bed-chamber, and there, with his
head resting against the wall and his hands in
his pockets, stood silent for a minute or two.

I suppose,' he said then, ' that if I should
live long enough for it to come to that. Lady
Worborough will have a right to come here.'

Whenever I found time to think of it, I used
to be astonished at my own position whilst I
stayed at Worborough Court. I had three
hundred a year of my own, came of a family
of no distinction, plain yeomen for half a
dozen generations, and had as much hope of
forming aristocratic associations as I had of
being suddenly translated to the moon, and
almost as much desire for the one as for the
other. But the differences in the life were so
slight and trivial that I was reconciled to my
new place insensibly and at once. To ride ina
carriage instead of a dog-cart or a cab — to
have a man behind one's chair at dinner every
evening instead of having him there on
special occasions only — to have another man

to fold, and lay out, and brush one's clothes,
instead of performing those small offices with
one's own hands, were the main changes, and
were easily to be borne with. Lord Marlborough
was not only kind, but companionable,
and very like any other amiable,
cultivated, and good old gentleman. I think
I had vaguely expected everything to be
very different from my old experiences ; I
know I found everything very much the same
as it had always been.

Lord Worborough and Pole were a good
deal together. The heir-apparent was being
familiarised with the possessions which would
one day be his own. His lordship had
always kept his affairs for the main part in
his own hands, and he and Pole spent hours
in going over business papers together. At
such times I was thrown upon my own
resources, and since in my boyhood riding
had been my greatest joy, and I had not
been able to afford a horse in London, I
took advantage of the chances offered me,

and spent most of my spare hours in the
saddle.

I was riding one tranquil afternoon towards
the village, thinking of a certain day at Pang-bourne
for the most part, and recalling with
great clearness all that had been said and
done, and how somebody had looked at every
turn of head and hand, when I saw, far away
across the fields, the crawling line of white
steam which betrayed the progress of the afternoon
down train. From the distance at which
I saw it, it looked like an emblem of peace
and quiet, and seemed to travel very slowly,
but by and by rounding a great curve it came
charging down towards me with increasing
swiftness and a growing roar. My horse
showed so decided a trepidation at the advancing
monster that I turned him into a by-lane
out of sight of it, and did not return to
the road I had been travelling until the train
had paused at the station, and the whistle
had announced its departure. Then I went
on towards the station. I saw without any

special interest the little handful of country-people
dispersing from the station door, and a
gentleman farmer of the neighbourhood climb
into a dog-cart which had been in waiting
for him and drive away. The moving of the
dog-cart revealed three people, a man and
woman, the woman very fashionably attired,
and a railway porter whose hand was pointing
straight down the road by which I was
approaching the group. In a minute or so
I came near enough to see them clearly, and
in a sort of horror I recognised the lady I had
seen aboard the house-boat. Her companion
was the little Jew solicitor. Goldsmith.

For a moment I was completely shaken
out of my self-possession, and could think of
nothing. My horse bore me on towards them,
and I saw that I was recognised. I have no
doubt my face displayed my sensations quite
plainly, for Mr. Goldsmith looked up at me
with a leer of self-approval, and wagged his
head in what I felt to be a triumphing derision.
His companion, who carried herself

with the old harsh air of self-disdain, and
disdain of everything, stared me scornfully in
the face. I was quite certain that their
purpose here was to annoy Pole, and when
they had passed me but a little way I wheeled
round and overtook them.

You'd better carry the good news ahead
of us, Bister Denham,' said the little Jew.
'We're going to make a little call at Marlborough
Court.'

'I shall have great pleasure,' I responded
as drily as I could. He laughed jeeringly,
and I rode on with but a single glance at the
bitter face beside him. Once out of sight and
hearing, I put my horse from a trot into a
gallop, and reached the Court a good half-hour
before they could well be expected. I
asked for Pole, and learned that he was
closeted with Lord Worborough. The horse
I had ridden was soft with want of exercise,
and was in a lather of foam with his gallop
of two and a half miles, and my own air was
doubtless a good deal flurried, for the man

VOL. 1 M

whom I questioned looked oddly at me as if
he suspected that something was amiss. For
the moment I was altogether nonplussed. It
would look odd to disturb Pole by sending
for him, and Lord Worborough would probably
think It an impertinence. Then It
struck me that I could give the man at the
loose instructions to detain the visitors there,
and permit them to do no more than send
their business to the house, leaving it at
Pole's option to do what he chose with them
afterwards. Luckily, whilst I was hurriedly
turning this suggestion up and down in my
mind, I heard a step upon the great staircase
leading to the hall, and there was Pole himself,
lounging down with his hands in his
pockets as usual, and his lithe and active
figure swaying Into the Idlest postures.

Here Is Mr. Pole, sir,' said the servant,
and withdrew.

Hill!' said Pole. ' Anything the matter .-^
You look scared.' I told him my news, and
looking before him, with eyes half-closed and

lips drawn inward, he nodded twice or thrice.
'We'll go and meet them,' he said then, sliding
an arm through mine, and taking a hat
from the stand as we went by.

We walked in silence down the long
avenue, passed the gates, and came upon
the dusty road in silence. I looked at my
companion pretty often, and if I had not
known his real reasons for disturbance I
should never have guessed them from his
face. His arm gave a little sudden twitch
as wee turned a corner of the road.

Here they are,' he said. I had looked
up already and had seen them a hundred
yards away. They walked on leisurely to
meet us, and I could see that Goldsmith was
disturbed by the thought of the coming interview.
He stared about him with an uneasy
pretence of not having seen us, flourished his
handkerchief, cocked his hat, pulled out his
watch, and drew a glove off and on. When
he could no longer evade the knowledge of
us he fell ever so little behind his companion,

who walked on steadily with an unchanging
look until we halted within a yard of each
other.

'Well,' said Pole. I could feel his hand
trembling slightly, with a strong quick tremor,
but his face and voice were altogether commonplace
and indifferent. ' What does this
mean '^. '

I am spending a day or two in the country,'
she answered mockingly. ' I wanted to
exchange congratulations with you. Do you
think the old man will last long ? '

I have been expecting this visit,' Pole returned,
with an air of everyday. ' I want you
to understand that I shan't allow another.'

'Indeed!' she asked with a cold sneer,
' and how do you propose to exercise your
authority ? '

Well,' he said, drawing his arm from
mine, and tilting his hat over his eyebrows,
I hold the purse strings, and until you
promise to leave me absolutely unmolested,
I shall pay no more.'

I have taken a house down here,' she
answered, 'and I am going to Hve in it.'

'Very well,' said Pole, throwing his head
back, and looking at her from under the brim
of his hat. ' We understand each other.
We needn't waste words about it. You will
do as you please, and I shall use the only
power I have.'

We will see about the power you have,'
said his wife. ' At the first delay of a day
I shall instruct Mr. Goldsmith to sue for
maintenance.'

That's what we shall do,' said Mr. Goldsmith,
still looking behind her shoulder. 'We
shall sue for maintenance.'

'You threatened that before,' Pole answered,
' and I give you the answer I gave
then. The moment you move in that way
I shall go abroad. As for the property here
I never coveted it, or expected it, and I can
do without it. I can make it over by deed
of gift to the next heir. I shan't pay a
penny until you have ceased to annoy me.

It's the only power I have, and I shall
use it.'

I could see by her eyes that there was no
mischief she would not have done him if she
had had the power.

You have a third of my income now,' he
went on, and I could see that his steadfast
refusal to be angry or shaken was beginning
to exasperate her horribly. ' In due time, if
we should both live, and I should be unmolested,
your allowance will be increased,
to what extent I cannot tell at present, but
considerably. You must choose for yourself
between a comfortable provision for life and
nothing at all. Good-day, Adelaide.'

He turned to go, but she sprang forward
and intercepted him.

You want war } ' she said, with something
of a stagy air and accent, but with an
obviously genuine passion. ' You shall have
it, then.'

> * No,' he answered wearily and quietly.
I want peace, and I mean to have it.' He

made a movement to walk round her, but she
intercepted him again. He Ht a cigarette
and sat down upon the turfy bank by the
roadside, with his feet apart and his hands
clasped between his knees.

I will have my rights she said, ' and I
will make your life a burden to you.'

He looked up at her and responded with
a dr}^ simplicity, answering her last words
only.

I know you will.'

I suppose you fancy,' she went on, with
a strange and dreadful distortion of the face,
that I know nothing of your doings. I know
everything. I know why you go to Cromwell
Terrace. I know why you stopped away.
I know how much you wish me dead, and
how you hate the sight of me. Do you think
I care whether you hate me or not ? Not I !
Why should I ? '

I drew Goldsmith a little aside, and ventured
to ask him if he thought any good
purpose was being served by the prolongation

of this scene. I pointed out that it could
only lead to an exasperation of feeling on
both sides, and begged him to use his influence
in getting his client away. He grinned
unamiable and shrugged his fat shoulders.

Mf Bister Pole doesn't like it,' he said,
Bister Pole's got himself to thank for it, and
nobody else.' ■

'As to that,' I answered, trying to be as
diplomatic as I could, ' I am not in a position
to form an opinion. But if you have your
client's interest at heart, Mr. Goldsmith, I
am sure you will persuade her to go away. I
understand that Mrs. Pole has no means of
her own, and if her husband should be so far
irritated as to fulfil his threat, your own hopes
of payment might be seriously affected.'

I ain't afraid,' said Mr. Goldsmith. 'We
can come on the estate. It's a legal claim,
ain't it ? Very well, then. What's the use
of talking ? If you want a man's freely services
you shouldn't chuck him in the river.'

I want you both to understand,' Pole

broke in here, rising to his feet. His wife
was still talking with a slow, bitter intensity,
but she stopped at the sound of his voice and
listened, looking from her husband's face to
Goldsmith's and back again. ' You can make
a public scandal of the thing, of course. You
can drive me out of England, and make it
impossible for me to return, but you can't
get money from a man who is determined at
all costs not to pay it. Now I am determined
at all costs not to pay it — please understand
that quite clearly, and once for all — unless I
have quiet secured to me. On the first return
of annoyance I shall go away, and leave you
to your own devices.'

His face was very pale and his eyes glittered,
but he spoke with a steady voice, and
it was plain to see that he produced an effect
on both of them. Goldsmith looked uneasily
at his client, and she, with her handsome,
dreadful face as white as Pole's, looked back
at him, her chin raised, and her pencilled
eyelids drooping, till the eyes shone through

a mere slit. I could not help thinking that
there was a something posed and studied in
her look and attitude, and in my own mind
I pictured her as rehearsing this and similar
scenes with a hungry relish for the excitement
of quarrel.

'Now, Goldsmith,' Pole went on, 'you
know your client. If you advise her to her
present course, you must take the consequences
— you can guess what they will be.'

Mr. Goldsmith showed signs of faltering.
His client opened her eyes in a studied disdain
and amazement, and, turning her head
aside from him slowly, kept her glance fixed
upon his face for a while and then withdrew
it with a practised scorn.

It's no use looking at me like that,' said
Mr. Goldsmith fretfully. 'Of course I'm
devoted to your interests, Mrs. Pole. I want
to make the best of things for you ; but it's
no use cutting your nose off to spite your
face. Now, is it ? '

Come, Denham,' said Pole, taking me by

the arm and moving away. This time his
wife made no attempt to stay him, and the
last I saw of the pair we left behind was that
the little Jew was standing bare-headed and
proffering his arm, whilst his client turned
disdainfully away from him and stood stock
still in the middle of the dusty road.

We walked in silence for some two or
three hundred yards, and then Pole spoke.

If they drive me to it I will keep my
word. I dare say you thought that I was
harsh. I don't care much what people think,
as a general rule — perhaps I care too little —
and if I justify myself to you you must take
it as a compliment.'

I knew very well he was not thinking
flippantly, however he might speak.

I have suffered enough already, and I
cant aftbrd to have this misery hanging over
me, threatening to come down at any moment.
I must use the only power I have.'

I hastened to assure him that I did not
see what other course lay open to him. In

his new position at least, whatever it had
been in his old one, it was impossible, or
almost impossible, to hide his whereabouts.
I thought he had an absolute right to
offer the bargain he had set before his wife,
and that if she would not accept it he was
clear of responsibility for her action.

I am glad you think so,' he answered.
It helps me to think so. Let us say no
more about it.'

But the new hint of Pole's interest in Miss
Delamere disturbed me, and the more I
thought about it the less assured I felt, and
the more grieved and anxious. I felt my
own thoughts intrusive and impatient, but I
could not banish them.

The Mornings Post had announced the fact
of the arrival of Mr. Pole and Mr. John Den-ham
at Worborough Court, and after a space
of some six weeks, during which nothing of
importance to my history happened beyond
the scenes already indicated, it announced the
departure for London of the same distinguished
pair. We went back to town
and resumed our old quarters and our old
ways. Before we left, Lord Worborough
had taken the warmest sort of liking to Pole,
and had, it appeared, been anxious to press
an allowance upon him, and to induce him to"
take up a residence more in accord with his
prospects and the social position they imposed
upon him. But Pole protested that he

had as much as he wanted, and preferred for
the present to remain in his old quarters, and
so, to my great satisfaction, we went back to
an unchanged life.

If my friend had been situated like most
young men of his age, had been free to carve
out his own career and dispose of his own
destiny, I am sure that I should have been
able to rejoice in the fortune which had befallen
him with my whole heart. But having
such solid ground for thinking poorly of his
high fortune on one side, I allowed myself to
think poorly of it on another. My thoughts
and feelings here were purely selfish, as I am
quite willing to admit. My own means gave
me no right to mix on terms of equality with
people of such exceptional wealth as would atone
time or another come into my friend's
possession. I did not altogether like the idea
of his having that enormous income and that
imposing title, and I felt as if these things
forced us apart already. But the difference
if difference there was — was wholly on my

side. Pole showed not the slightest sign of
being touched by it.

It rained one evening pretty heavily, and
I had business abroad. The days were beginning
to draw in, and it was dusk in the court
when I got to the open doorway of the house
and stood there unfolding my umbrella. The
lamps were lit, and gleamed rawly in the
faint light. There was something noticeably
dismal in the chill mingling of gaslight with
what remained of daylight, and the whining
wind, which wrinkled the puddles on the stone
pavement, and the relentless plashing rain
intensified the feeling. I was conscious, in
an absent-minded way, of a further note of
emphasis — a single figure in the otherwise
deserted court, a man who, with a frock-coat
shining with rain, and a shapeless old silk
hat, from whose battered brim the drops fell
on his nose, stood lurching by the opposite
railings, looking upward. As I put up my
umbrella and stepped out into the rain he
gave ever so slight a start, of nervousness, as

I conjectured, and made off in the direction
of Holborn. He looked abject and deserted,
and I gave him a sidelong glance in passing.
He gave a sidelong glance at me, and shot
his eyes away from mine in a mere fraction
of a second. He was sufficiently miserable
to look at, but just respectable enough to
have a right to be offended by an offer of
charity. I half expected his step to quicken,
and could almost hear in fancy the thick voice
which I knew must go along with that bibulous
nose and the bibulous unsteady lips he
had, murmuring the known formula about the
poor man and the night's lodging. He came
slopping on behind me, with the peculiar
sucking noise at each footstep which broken
boots make on a wet and level pavement, and
I gave him a passing thought of pity and forgot
him, as we have to forget scores of such
phantoms every day in a great city.

I went to Bloomsbury Square, I remember,
to call upon an acquaintance of mine, a
musician, who had set some verses of mine to

music, and who had given me an appointment
that evening to hear a professional tenor
rehearse the song. I stayed an hour, I daresay,
and then left. There, planted against
the railings, was a dim gleaming figure, at
such a distance that I should have not noticed
him at all but for the chance light a gas-lamp
cast upon his wet arm and shoulder, and his
seedy shining hat. He would appear to have
gone to sleep there, but the noise of the door
which, escaping the maid-servant's fingers,
slammed loudly behind me, made him jump
into a bolt upright attitude, and I thought of
the man in the court.

So far there was nothing in the world to
make me believe that it was worth anybody's
while to stalk me about London, and so I
fancied this second sight of the man to be an
accident. I went home and forgot him again.
But next day about noon I turned to look at
something in the street, and there was the
man once more, slouching a score of yards
behind. He turned away when I saw him,

VOL. I N

and made believe to stare at a shop-window,
but I observed one or two furtive glances in
my own direction, and began to grow a little
curious. I sauntered on and went round a
corner, and then dropping my pace to a mere
lounge, I went round a second corner and
there waited. The shabby man almost walked
against me — recoiled with a start, and then
took the other side of the road. I affected
to take no notice of him and lounged on
again, and coming in a while to another main
street, saw my man behind me still, this time
by the aid of a big mirror in the shop-window
of a carver and gilder. The shop-window
was at a corner, and the mirror stood at an
angle in it, giving a clear view of the road
for two score yards. I began to suspect the
shabby man of shadowing me for a purpose,
and I walked about with no other meaning
at all than to see if he would follow still,
taking pains not to look as if I knew anything
of his presence. It became quite clear
at last that the man was really following me ;

and when I had led him a long ramble I bent
my way homewards. When I had come
within a minute's walk of Warwick Court I
quickened my steps to a good round pace,
and once within its shelter, ran. I passed
the iron gate, turned to the left, and then
marched leisurely down Brownlow Street
back into Holborn. There, at the corner of
Chancery Lane, was my man in converse
with another, a gentleman in a skin cap, short
trousers, and big hollows. My original follower
went down Chancery Lane, the man in
the skin cap crossed the street and took up
his stand at a corner of the entrance to the
court. I went away to luncheon, pretty certain
of finding him there when I came back
again, wondering what on earth this evident
espionage meant, and perhaps exciting myself
about it a little more than necessary.

Late in the afternoon I went back to
chambers, and after waiting for half an hour,
took another ramble. As I expected, the
man in the hollows was so good as to follow

me everywhere, to wait outside a house
in which I made a prolonged call, ^ and to
accompany me at a judicious distance home
again. I went straight up to Pole's chambers,
and found him engaged with a book and a
cigar. He opened the door with the book
in his hand, and threw it on to the sofa ashe
entered the sitting-room before me.

'Well,' he said cheerfully, 'what's the
news '^, '

I told him my curious experience of the
last four-and-twenty hours. At first he said,
Nonsense,' and laughed, but when I began
to describe the experience in detail he grew
serious, and proposed that we should at once
go out together and investigate the matter.
I consented to this quite eagerly. I described
the men before we started, so that
he should be able easily to identify them.
We walked into Holborn and caught no sight
of either of them.

Let us take a quiet way,' I said, ' and see
what happens.'

We steered our course for the great west-central
squares, which at that hour lay silent
and almost deserted. We walked slowly,
both keeping a keen look-out, and before we
had made half a dozen turnings Pole began
to think that there was something in it. A
pinched, wispy little man, in disreputable
black, took the same way as ourselves, with
a persistence which would have been very
singular if it had been accidental. When we
began to be pretty sure of him we veered
about and met him. He passed us without
a look or a sign, and two minutes later he
was following us upon our backward track.

'There is no doubt about it,' Pole confessed.
' You are being followed. What is
the meaning of it } '

I could not make a guess, but my nerves
began to thrill a little at the notion of this
unwearying stealthy watch. There was a
mystery in it which was certainly not altogether
agreeable, and was yet not without its
charm.

'We will discomfit this gentleman,' said
Pole. ' I am going to ask him what he
means by it.'

I asked him to wait a moment. I
thought I saw a better way than he suggested.
There could be nothing got out
of the man by questioning him, but I proposed
to hunt the hunter and find out
where he went and by whom he was employed.
It was absurd to suppose that
he and his comrades were tracking me
for the mere amusement of the adventure.
They were set on by somebody and paid
by somebody, though it was out of my
power to guess why anybody should think
it worth his while to mark me down in this
way.

We stood at a dark corner discussing this
question.

Depend upon it, Pole,' I said, and before
I could get any further the pinched little
man slunk by us without a glance at either.
'We will part here,' I whispered a moment

later. ' Keep an eye on the fellow. See if
he follows me again.'

We agreed upon this, said ' Good-night '
to each other loudly, and took different ways.

I lit a cigar and sauntered slowly, to give
my man a chance of keeping up with me. I
was almost as anxious not to be lost sight
of as I judged him to be to keep sight of me.
I heard no following footsteps though the
square was as silent as a desert, and I confess
to many curious little shuddering as I
went. I have never had any very distinguished
opportunity of learning whether I
am brave or a coward, and I am rather inclined
to fancy that nobody can be sure of
his own courage until it has been tested, but
I think that most people would have felt
nervous under the circumstances. It was
not that I anticipated any bodily harm, for
I was a match for the wispy old man and
half a dozen like him, but imagination came
into play, and a score of tingling adventures
happened every minute.

I walked softly, and listened with all my
might. I heard hundreds of imaginary
sounds, but not a single noise which could
reasonably be translated into that of a pursuing
footstep, and at last I paused and
turned. I was in a long, deserted, silent
street, and from end to end there was not a
living creature to be seen. I retraced my
steps, and saw nothing, and after a time it
became evident to my mind that the inexplicable
pursuit had been abandoned. After
lingering long to be assured of this, and
having attracted the wondering regard of
more than one policeman by my suspicious
loitering, I went home. Pole was there
before me.

The hunt is over for the time,' he said.
I fancy the fellow understood the meaning
of our manoeuvre, and declined to be followed
in his turn. Any way he made no further
attempt to follow you, and I lost sight of
him.'

We talked about the theme until we wore

it altogether threadbare, and then we went
to bed. For a day or two as I went about
the streets I looked around me to find some
trace of the old watch, but seeing none I
forgot it, until one evening, emerging from
Warwick Court, I saw, sneaking along the
opposite side of the way, my friend in the fur
cap. I was naturally interested in him, and
at first it tickled me somewhat to observe
that he was slinking, and pausing, and peering,
as if in pursuit of the old business
with a new unconscious quarry ahead of him.
I crossed over and dropped behind him,
and, following his constant glances in one
direction, discovered, with a sudden chill
and start, that he was hunting my companion.

And now,' said I to myself, ' we will
find out what this extraordinary business
means if I follow for a week.'

I had not to follow for a week as it turned
out, but I got through as dull and weary an
evening as I ever remember to have passed
in my life. Pole turned into a restaurant,

and this reminded me that I myself was
hungry, and that the object of my excursion
from my chambers had been dinner. The
man in the fur cap took up his post within
sight of the entrance and waited there. I
took up my post in sight of him, and waited
also. The man smoked several pipes, and
danced many shuffling dances on the pavement.
The streams of traffic flowed this
way and that, clocks boomed and clanged
the quarters through the noises of the streets
with a most unreasonable interval between.
I grew absurdly hungry, and everybody who
left the restaurant looked like Pole. I got
to dread the eye of the policeman on his
beat, and knew that I was a suspicious
character. When I had waited an hour and
a half, which felt like a dreary day, Pole
emerged from the swinging doors and went
home. The man in the fur cap followed
him, and I followed the man in the fur cap.

At the foot of Warwick Court the spy
found an associate, and after a whispered

word or two with him moved off at a good
round pace, leaving his confederate behind.
I went after number one, determined to
find where he might go. I had a second
wait whilst he refreshed himself at a public-house.
I peered through the glass door,
and saw him engaged with a pork pie and a
pewter pot. It began to rain, and if the
whole thing had been less mysterious and had
seemed less important I could have easily
found it in my heart to resign the chase.

At last patience was rewarded, and the
man coming again upon the street, turned
up his collar against the rain, plucked the
fur cap over his eyes, and walked away with
an air of decision. He paused after a
lengthy walk before a private house in a
respectable street, knocked, and was admitted.
The door was no sooner closed
behind him than I ran to it, and by the light
of a near lamp read the inscription upon the
brass plate :

Mr. Goldsmith, Solicitor.

I STOOD at the door for a time sunk deep
in thought, and by and by I began to get a
glimmering of insight, though no more. I
had only just begun to move away when the
door re-opened and the man in the fur cap
and the big hollows came out and passed
me. I touched him on the arm and he
turned his head and paused.

I want a word or two with you, if you
please,' I said.

'What if I don't please ?' he asked. He
had not actually brought his footsteps to a
halt, but was moving on lingeringly with a
backward stare at me.

I think you will,' I answered, persuasively
jingling a handful of silver in my

pocket, ' if I make it worth your while.
Have you any objections to a drink, to
begin with ? '

Well, no, he said he hadn't, not so far ashe
snowed. I asked him to be so good as
to pilot me to a place where we might have a
moment's talk in quiet.

'I'll show you the way, right enough,' he
answered, ' but you needn't think as you're
going to get anything out o' me. I can pay
for my own drinks when I want 'em.'

I made no response to this, and he, turning
a corner, led me down a by-street and
into a public-house. A barman dozed behind
the pewter counter, and but for him the
place was empty. I gave my spy a glass
of hot rum and water, and for form's sake
asked for a bottle of lemonade. When I
paid for these I pulled out all the money
I had in my pocket precisely as ]mr. Goldsmith
would have done. I had perhaps
three pounds about me, and I saw my
friend of the fur cap looking at it as

if he would like it to change hands, I
thought.

Now,' I asked him, * you don't believe in
selling anything for nothing, do you ? '

No,' he said, shivering agreeably after
his first gulp of hot rum and water ; ' I ain't
one o' that sort.'

Nobody would have expected anything of
the sort, I told him, from so shrewd-looking a
fellow. I thought of the Inspector Bucket,
and was resolved to be complimentary.

But now,' I said, * I want you to tell
me one or two things.' I put a half-crown
on the pewter counter and looked at him.
He shook his head decisively. I set another
on the top of it, and looked at him again,
and again he shook his head, this time with
something of a mournful sneer. He still
made negative signs when four half-crowns
lay one upon another before him, but they
were less decided than before. 'Very well,'
I said, feigning to observe plain acquiescence
in his manner. * Half to begin with, the

Other half afterwards.' I held out five
shillings towards him. He lingered for a
moment, but no more.

What is it ? ' he asked, as he pouched the
coins.

You are employed by Mr. Goldsmith ? '
I asked. He contented himself with a nod.
He set you on to follow me?' He shook
his head and smiled. ' Who set you on to
follow me ? '

Nobody,' he answered ; ' that was a
terror.'

Ah ! I thought so. You were employed
to follow Mr. Pole ? '

Again he nodded.

Why do you follow Mr. Pole ? '
I'm paid for it,' he answered.

Exactly. But what do you avant to find
out about him ? '

The man looked about him suspiciously,
finished his drink, and moved towards the
door with an almost imperceptible nod of
invitation for me to follow. I obeyed the

signal, and he led me through a little maze
of streets. I stopped him at length by declaring
that I would go no farther.

'The potman was a-listening,' he said
cheerily ; ' I could see it by the way he 'eld
'is ed. My place is worth a lot more than
ten shilling.'

Very likely,* I answered ; ' but I don't
want you to lose your place. I want you to
keep it. Tell me, what do you want to find
out about Mr. Pole ? '

The orders is,' he answered, leaning
forward and pouring his spirituous breath
into my face, ' to see where he goes, and
who he meets — specially one place and one
person.'

What is the place ? ' I asked.

House in Cromwell Terrace,' he answered.


And the person ? '

A young female as live in the house.'

Of course you know no reason why this
is beings done ? '

The governor don't tell me a lot ; you
can bet your 'at on that, sir.'

There was no more to be made of him for
the time, and I paid him his five shillings
and parted from him, but not before I had
ascertained that he knew my name and
address, and had arranged with him to communicate
with me in case anything should
come to his knowledge. I had very little
compunction in employing this personage to
act against his original employer, and as I
walked home, Spenser's line about entire
affection hating nicer hands came into my
mind, and justified me altogether.

It was embarrassing to take the news of
my discovery to Pole, and I was conscious of
a feeling which I knew of course to be altogether
ridiculous, that I was interfering in
his affairs, and prying into concerns which
he desired to keep secret. But it was not a
matter for any foolish delicacy, and I seized
the first chance I had of laying it before him.

He tried hard to preserve his ordinary

VOL. T O

look of impassivity, and listened with his
shoulders lounging against the wall, his
hands in his pockets, and his head leaning
sideways.

You ask me nothing ! ' he said when I
had done.

Why should I ask you anything ? ' I
demanded in return.

You must think it all very exceptional
and strange.'

Of course it was exceptional and strange,
and I admitted as much to myself and to
him.

Don't take my silence as a sign of indifference
or unfriendliness,' I said at last. 'I
will ask you that, but I don't care to ask you
any more.'

He left his lounging place by the wall and
took several turns about the room. Then
he stopped and laid a hand upon my shoulder.

There are no suspicions, no accusations,
in your mind ? '

My dear fellow, no.'

Denham ! ' he said suddenly, seating
himself before me, ' I don't know what todo.
I don't know how I ought to act.'

I did not know, I answered, that my
advice could be of service to him.

In plain English,' he said after a time,
here is my trouble. Ought I to publish
the fact of this miserable, marriage ? '

I had thought over this question so often
and so long that I had my answer ready.

The reasons against the publication are
obvious enough. What are the reasons for
it?'

They are obvious enough also — some of
them. Here is the name of a most spotless
and admirable lady coupled with mine. You
coupled them together in your mind, once at
least ; my wife couples them. That old snob
and tuft-hunter Delamere is trying his hardest
to couple them, in fact. Dr. Fish is full of
hints and smiles. I don't believe — I don't
believe Miss Delamere cares two straws forme.
I suppose I must have let it be seen atone

time that I cared a great deal more than
two straws for Miss Delamere.'

It cost him a great effort to say this. He
spoke in a tone of affected Highness, which
afforded as poor and thin a disguise as I can
remember to have known. When I looked
at him his face was pale, and he was looking
fixedly before him. The confession came
upon me with a great shock, and I understood
in the light of it many things which
had hitherto been dark to me. Here was
half the tragedy I had been afraid of.

I made that wretched marriage,' he
went on, after a lengthy silence — ' never
mind why. I thought I was acting very
nobly and loftily, and so on, and I found out
that I had acted like a fool. Who is it says
we reserve our keenest repentance for our
virtues ? I was married, anyhow, and tied
for life. You have seen my wife, and there's
no need to describe her to you, or to talk
about her at all. We lived together for a
month, and then parted. I met Miss Delamere

some time afterwards. I wont say
that I fell in love with her.' He was talking
in a hard, dry voice, and with a manner
as dry and hard as solid people of deep-rooted
feeling do when they are greatly
moved. ' I formed a very high opinion of
her. I thought her the most admirable
woman I had ever known, and,' he added
very doggedly, ' I think so still. In a while
I began to see that other people were becoming
aware of my opinion. Her father was
aware of it, and resented it as an impertinence,
until an accidental death or two put
me in reasonable distance of a great future
and a peerage. Then he changed his mind,
as might have been expected of him.'

He rose then and paced steadily to and
fro with his chin upon his breast.

'One night,' he went on, 'old Dr. Fish
poked a foolish joke at me about an approaching
marriage, and that decided me. I never
went near the Delameress' house again until
I went with you, and then I thought the

folly had blown over. It seems to have
revived and sprung to life again, and I must
stop away again and put an end to it.'

It will certainly be wise to do so,' I said.

It's rather hard lines too,' he added, with
that irritating assumption of not caring, which,
after all, I was compelled to admire. For my
own part when I am hurt I cry out prodigiously.
When I am in trouble I want somebody
to whom to pour out my complaints —
a friend to share my burden. ' It's brutally
hard lines when you come to think of it.'

I fancy,' I said, ' that your wife and Goldsmith
can have but little knowledge of you.'

My wife and Goldsmith have very little
knowledge of me,' he answered. ' They
have but very little knowledge of the case at
all, it would seem. I don't think I'm much
of a coxcomb, Denham ? '

He put this question with something very
like his usual natural air, and I laughed as I
answered. Not much of a coxcomb, I was
inclined to fancy.

Then I can say what is on my mind to
say. It's no compliment to a man when a
woman falls in love with him, because women
constantly fall in love with utterly worthless
people. They fall in love with ugly fellows,
they fall in love with men who are dazzlingly
stupid, or mean, or base. It's quite on the
cards that a woman might fall in love with
me. It's a recognisable possibility. Eh ?'

Quite a recognisable possibility.'

Then what should the sensitive creature
da who desires to save a hypothetical young
woman from wasting her affections ? What
should a tender-hearted man in my position,
reading the first signs of dawning affection,
do to shield the poor creature from the
blight ? '

For Heaven's sake, Pole,' I besought
him, ' don't talk in this bitter way. Upon
my soul, you are worse than wormwood.'

Yes,' said Pole drily, biting off the end
of a cigar. 'I'm a great deal worse than
wormwood.'

Look here, Pole,' I said, rising and
laying a hand upon him. ' It's no use beating
about the bush any longer, and hurting
each other with pretences. You'd best let
it be known at Cromwell Terrace that you
are married, and then all the trouble, and all
the chance of trouble will be over.'

I said just now I wasn't a coxcomb,'
he answered with a bitter lightness. Then
looking sideways at me with a face as white
as marble, he asked, ' You think she cares ? '

I think she may. I know nothing. I
have seen nothing. She may come to care.'

'All right,' he answered, throwing the
cigar into the fireplace. ' Go and cry it on
the housetops. Look here, old chap.' He
gripped my arm, and pushed me to and fro
more strongly than he knew. ' We won't
say any more about it now. I've got some
letters I ought to write, and — and some
things to think about. Come up tomorrow,
will you ? Good-night.'

We shook hands, and I left him. I don't

suppose I could feel anybody's grief to-day
as I felt his then. We grow selfish as we
grow older, and our own cares absorb us.
But at that time I had no trouble of my own
that was worth the thinking of, and it is
simple truth that I loved him like a brother.
I went away heavy-hearted, and in my
own lonely room I listened to the sound of
his footsteps overhead, to the unnumbered
little noises which bespoke disordered and
hasty movements and a troubled mind for
hours.

In the morning, among my letters I found
a note from Pole.

I have been thinking,' he wrote, ' of
our last night's talk. I have come to the
conclusion that it will be best to make a
clean breast of it. I am going down to
Worborough. The old man will be grieved,
I know, but I must tell him with my own
lips. I authorise you to speak about the
matter where you will. There is no need
for discretion, and you may tell anybody.

Tell Fish, and he will save you all further
trouble.'

If there was anything made clear by the
resolve thus expressed, it was Pole's fear lest
Mary Delamere should come to care for him
in her ignorance of his position. And if anybody
who knows the facts chooses to think
the fear coxcombical, I need hardly say that
I am very far indeed from being in agreement
with him.

I COULD not remember to have had a task
more embarrassing laid upon me. It was
not merely embarrassing, but downright painful,
even in the mere contemplation of it.
And yet it was so evidently the only thing
to be done that it was not to be evaded.
Pole went down to Worborough Court as he
had promised, and I was left alone to fulfil
my part of the bargain made between us.

I had let almost the whole of the first day
slide by without action, and had constantly
tested myself with rehearsals of the disclosure
I had to make. The fact that I was
fully authorised to make it had next to no
effect upon my mind. Look at it how I
would it seemed to wear the air of an intolerable

impertinence. But, as I wandered
disconsolate down Piccadilly that night, trying
to summon up resolution to get the
matter over, I encountered no less a person
than the Reverend Doctor Fish. He was
beaming, as he always beamed, and overflowing
with that fatuous and indiscriminating
kindliness which marked his aspect in the
world at large. We shook hands with great
cordiality.

How do you do, my young friend, how
do you do ? Rambling ? Philosophising?
A charming night for the time of year, but
cold.'

Doctor Fish,' said I, plunging in medias
res, ' I have something to say to you.'

The old gentleman stopped short and
looked at me with an almost ludicrous air of
alarm. I became awkwardly aware of a
somewhat too tragic intensity in my own tone
and manner.

I have been asked,' I continued, taking
him by the arm and leading him along,

to make public a certain painful piece of
news.'

The old gentleman, with his hat perched
on the back of his head and his face turned
up to mine with an expression of alarmed
bewilderment, ambled beside me.

'Pole,' I said, 'has gone down to Marlborough
Court to see Lord Worborough, and
to make to him the same statement which
he authorises me to make to his friends in
general.'

God bless my soul I ' said Dr. Fish.

There were reasons.' I went on, delaying,
in a sufficiently lame and impotent fashion,
what I had to say, ' why the thing should not
have been made generally known before.
But there are now reasons — very urgent
reasons — why it should be known.'

Dr. Fish said 'God bless my soul I" again,
and ambled on, holding his umbrella tightly
at the middle, and gasping at me open-mouthed.


Pole,' I said, making quite a desperate

'effort, ' some years back contracted a most
miserable and unhappy marriage.'

The doctor stopped, withdrew his arm,
and faced me in speechless amazement.

His wife is living still. I have met her
twice, and I can thoroughly understand the
reasons which prompted him to concealment.
But now his changed position, and certain
other circumstances which it is not necessary
that we should talk about '

My dear young friend,' said the doctor,
laying his hand upon my arm, ' we will say
nothing whatever about them.' I had not
expected so much delicacy from him. ' I can
see reasons; I can see one or two reasons.
The poor misguided boy ! Dear me ! Such
prospects ! This will be a blow to his lordship.
Quite right and wise on the poor boy's
part to make the thing known. Quite right
and wise. But who is the lady .^ Is she —
is she — anybody ?'

I told him that I knew nothing whatever
of Mrs. Pole's antecedents ; that she looked

and spoke as if she might have been a lady ;
but, I added, whatever her antecedents might
have been, she was utterly impossible as a
life-companion for her husband.

I had always known the old gentleman to
be of a feeling and sympathetic turn, but I
seemed now to have done him less than
justice. He was very much moved indeed
by the intelligence I had given him, and
when we had resumed our progress westward
he walked in silence for full five minutes,
sighing every now and again, and shaking
his head quite mournfully. After this, however,
I fancied that I began to discern a sort
of sad complacency in his manner, and I do
not think I am far wrong in supposing that
he found a compensation for this mournful
news in the fact that he was authorised to
spread it abroad.

'There is, of course,' he said, 'no possibility
of a mistake in this ? You understand,
John, that if this story is to be repeated it
must be no guess-work.'

I told him anew that Pole himself desired
the fact to be made known, and parted from
him shortly afterwards with a feeling that I
had been unwarrantably meddling with my
friend's affairs. So far as the casting abroad
of the news could go, the thing was over and
done with. It was quite certain, as I knew,
that the intelligence would reach all for whom
it was intended, and a few chance thousands
outside that limited circle. As a matter of
fact it was public property in a week, for the
earliest precursor of the great tribe of society
journals got hold of it, and printed it in a
paragraph, the purposed mystery of which
blinded nobody. We have grown quite accustomed
nowadays to the invasion of what
used to be called the sanctity of private life ;
but at this time the publication of this kind
of detail was new in our experience, and Pole
and I were not unnaturally angry at it.

It served Pole's purpose in one marked
way, however, inasmuch as it brought under
Mr. Goldsmith's notice the fact that all

attempt to preserve secrecy had been abandoned,
and so took one weapon out of hands
which. were not Hkely to be over-scrupulous.
It did this very completely, for the final line
of the paragraph ran thus : — ' It is a significant
fact that the husband has himself decided
to publish the news of the marriage he has
hitherto so successfully concealed.' I thought
it probable at the time that the writer might
not altogether know of what the fact was
significant, and I have since remarked that
the journalistic capacity for indicating significance
and incapacity for actually seeing
them, are a part of the newspaper man's
mental outfit.

When once I had set the news afloat I
became actually tormented by the desire to
know how it was received in Cromwell
Terrace. The very force of my sympathy
served to keep me away for a week or two,
and I felt so awkward about the whole
melancholy business that if it had not been
for Clara's presence in the house I should
VOL. I p

probably have avoided Mr. Delamere's residence
for ever. I have said nothing of the
progress of my own personal affairs during
the last month or two, and yet that progress
was noticeable and rapid. Looking back to
almost any period of life, and taking up any
thread of existence, it is curious to notice
how the contemplation of that one line will,
for the moment, belittle the others. By dint
of thinking of it you may make almost any
episode of your life look disproportionately
large, and I suppose that one of the chief
difficulties to be surmounted in the relation
of one's own history is provided by this very
tendency. I will be careful at least not to
exaggerate one line. To go back to all those
tender hopes and foolish fears, to recall them
for but a minute or two in the silence of my
own study, is at once to make them dominate
all other incidents and feelings in my remembrance
of the time. Pole was my
friend, and I shall not easily be persuaded
that many men have found a friend more

entirely and devotedly at their service in
heart and deed. But. after all. he occupied
but a mere corner of my life, and every other
nook and cranny of it was crammed full of
Clara.

I have it on the authority of my wife that
I might have spared myself all the ecstasies
of despair in which at this time I revelled.
I respond by declaring that, though I might
have wished to escape them then, I should
have been a most mistaken man to do it.
Curious I How one looks back from the
haven of middle age, where no tempest
can toss the heart's barque on that vexed
ocean any more, and thinks how enviable
that despairing, wrecked, and drowning
mariner really was ! What happy, fairy
islands of safety sprang up sometimes in
mid-ocean, when the tempest was at its
loudest I What gleams of heavenly blue
broke through the dividing storm I Everybody
but the most insensible knows these
things, everybody loves to recall them. The

love-stories of purely fictitious personages
make up ninety per cent of the world's literature,
and one finds, now and again, the most
elderly, sober-minded, and commonplace old
people renewing their own youth in a pretty,
rose-coloured No Man's Land which has Jack
and Jill for inhabitants.

These sentimental reflections will have
made it clear to any person of average discernment
that a prolonged absence from the
house graced by Miss Grantley's presence
was impossible to the present writer. He
stayed away, this present writer, until he
could stay away no longer ; a full ten days,
as I remember ; and then, with a transparent
pretence of having some reason apart
from the only one he acted on, he made a
call.

I had seemed to be guilty of an impertinence
in speaking of Pole's affairs, though he
had authorised me to do it, but the sense
I felt then of my own insolent intrusiveness
was not a thousandth part so strong as that

which suddenly assailed me when I saw Miss
Delamere. A great change had fallen upon
her. Her beauty had never been of the
robustest order, but now, to my terror and
sorrow, she had grown shadowy, so pale and
ethereal she looked. She smiled with all her
accustomed sweetness when she shook hands
with me. There was not the faintest hint of
any expression in her face which asked for
pity, and yet I knew that she had passed
through a time of dreadful trouble. I have
had intuitions enough in my time to know
that they can be true, and to be certain that
they can be absurd. Yet not even the after-proof
of knowledge added or could add to
the certainty of her love for Pole, which
at that instant flooded and filled my mind.
I knew it, and I was, beyond expression,
ashamed of myself for knowing it.

I contrived, in a roundabout way, to inquire
if bliss Grantley were at home, and
learned that she was out on a visit to some
old friends of her mother's in the neighbourhood.

I do not think now that there was
any intention in Miss Delamere's manner,
but I thought so then ; and between my own
shyness and my pity for her I fell into a state
of complete discomfort. Under these conditions,
even the arrival of Jones was a thing
to be welcomed. He came in with Mr. Delamere
; and Mary, taking out some trifle of
embroidery, assumed an abstracted air, and
feigned to be closely occupied with it. I
suppose it is not easy for a woman of brains
and sensibility to throw her whole soul Into
the contemplation of stitches, and it was
very evident to me that, however closely
she might seem to be engaged upon her
task, she followed the talk which took place
amongst us.

Mr. Delamere was unusually magnificent
that evening. He had an air of having done,
or undertaken to do, some act of Christian
magnanimity towards somebody, and was full
of pitying condescensions to the world at
large. Jones was in something of the same

mood, but in him it was tempered by a rare
hilarity.

'I suppose,' said Mr. Delamere, 'that
there could be nothing more stupid than to
be angry at stupidity. There is a sense in
which patience is the best of the virtues. A
wise discrimination lies at the root of a virtuous
patience. One is not angry because
a fifty-six pound shot has not the lightness
of a feather, or because a feather has not the
ponderosity of the shot. In fine, one accepts
things.'

Jones smiled at this.

'One accepts things,' he said, 'on one of
two conditions.'

'Your conditions?' demanded Mr. Delamere,
leaning back in his chair and setting
the tips of his fingers delicately together.

That the things accepted should be either
unavoidable or in themselves acceptable.'

They were both clever men, Delamere and
Jones, but they were a weariness to my flesh
and spirit. They would sit for hours solemnly

trotting out for one another's admiration their
commonplaces of the philosophical copy-book,
until I tingled from head to foot. It seemed
to me that the kind of converse they took
delight in was either not very acceptable in
itself, or quite unalterable, and I knew that
they were working their way towards the
question of Pole's marriage just as well as
they did.

Human nature,' said Mr. Delamere, with
that air of catholic wisdom and plenary
allowance which is of all human aspects the
most irritating and hateful to my mind ;
human nature is a poor mixed thing.'

Subtly compounded, sir,' said Jones ;
subtly compounded.'

Solomon touches it,' said Delamere.
The fly in the ointment ; the fly in the
ointment. One may have known a man for
years — have watched him, have analysed him,
boasted to oneself one's understanding of
him, when there comes some unlooked-for
injection, and the chemical character of the

whole human mass is changed. Now, for
instance '

Miss Delamere was busy at her embroidery,
and I at a Httle distance sat watchings her as
I Hastened. She had looked up once, and
until now once only, and then our eyes had
encountered. A glance need not endure long
to express many things, and for a very little
space of time indeed, whilst she was unconscious
of my gaze, her own expressed a
most mournful lassitude and despondency ;
but becoming aware of me she gave one of
her bright, customary smiles of recognition,
and went back to her embroidery. Now
again, at this * for instance ' of her father's,
she looked up from her work, her forehead
faintly knitted, and her whole face pained
and puzzled.

For instance,' Delamere went on, not
noticing her, but turning with a gracious condescension
upon me, ' this affair of your
friend Pole's, Denham. I rather pride myself,
not altogether, as I fancy, without reason,

Upon being something of a judge of character.
I should have supposed your friend Pole to
have been a man whose whole instincts would
have been diametrically opposed to the facts
as we now know them. I should have regarded
any such union as he has formed as
being quite outside the sphere of possibility
for him.'

'May one ask,' said Jones, 'what virtues
Mr. Pole was specially gifted with which
would have seemed to make this step impossible
for him ? '

'In the first place,' said Delamere, 'no
man of lofty honour can contract a secret
marriage. I had supposed Pole to be a man
of lofty honour.'

I said, in something like a tone of challenge,
I am afraid, that Pole was a man of
lofty honour. I added, warmly, that I knew
no man whose code of honour was purer, or
who better acted up to it. Before I had well
spoken I was angrier with myself for having
done so than I was at the stupidity of the

pair who could not see that they were sticking
pins and needles into the heart of their
silent listener.

Mr. Delamere raised his glasses in a way
that indicated that he was not to be disturbed
from his own philosophical serenity by the
intrusion of any inferior intelligence upon
his sphere of thought. The observation of
this helped to cool me a little, for it threw
a touch of humour into my thoughts ; and
though the humour was a little bitter it was
more agreeable than mere anger.

'A man who contracts a secret marriage,'
pursued Delamere, ' necessarily imposes himself
upon society under false pretences. A
man with such a tie upon him has no right
to go into the world and move about in it as
though he were unfettered. In a country
whose social institutions resemble those of
England ; in a country, that is to say, where
young people of both sexes meet and mingle
in a constant innocent freedom of intercourse,
and where marriages are made, not by the

manoeuvring of parents, but chiefly by the
choice and free will of the contracting parties,
the secret marriage of a young man of wealth
and position amounts to nothing less than a
crime against society. You, or you,' he
turned from Jones to me, and addressed us
each in turn, ' may be excused for supposing
that a young lady in her choice of an associate
for life ought not to be actuated by
pecuniary consideration or influenced by
rank. I do not stop to consider now whether
a young lady should or should not permit her
mind to be influenced by wealth and rank.
I content myself by affirming that the very
large majority are as a matter of fact so
influenced.'

I felt bound, for two reasons, one of which
was a great deal stronger than the other, to
take a part in the talk and to fight Pole's
battle. The first reason, though it counted
very little for the moment, was founded on
the friendship he and I had for one another.
The second and the stronger was this : if I

kept silence I was in danger of appearing to
give a special significance to Delamere's
attack, and I was afraid that his daughter
might attribute my silence to a fear of hurting
her. So, in my guilty knowledge of her
own sad secret, 1 had to take my share in
wounding her in order not to wound.

I beg your pardon, ]mr. Delamere,' I
said, with as respectful an air as I could
muster, ' but you forget that Pole himself
divulged the secret, just as soon as wealth
and rank seemed to be coming his way.
What his reasons for concealment were at
first I do not pretend to know, but you
argue what you do know into what you
can't know in judging of a man as in judging
of anything. Pole is a man of high
honour — ergo, Pole had nothing dishonourable
in his mind when he kept his marriage
secret under conditions of which we are
ignorant.'

I was so placed that I could see Miss
Delamere's face in the mirror, and I caught

a look of gratitude for my defence of my
friend.

I for one,' said Mr. Delamere coldly,
am not Inclined to be overstrained in my
ideal of social duty, but I think your friend's
conduct inexcusable. Do you happen to
know, Denham,' he asked a moment later,
who is the — the person he has married ?'

I answered in the negative, looking as
natural and unembarrassed as I could. Was
it possible, I asked myself, that he could be
blind to his daughter's pallor and languor
and ignorant of their cause ? Every word
we spoke must have been a pain to her, but
nothing could be so painful as to guess that
I knew of what she suffered. The two complacent
philosophers went on, and I was
compelled to look as stupid as they were in
fact. My only chance for tact lay in seeming
quite tactless, and I succeeded well
enough to disarm suspicion in Miss Delamere's
mind.

For my own part,' she said quietly and

with complete self-possession, ' I think ?mr.
Pole very much to be pitied. I do not know
if he is to be blamed as well. That is quite
possible, of course, but I don't think it very
probable.'

'My dear Mary,' returned her father, 'it
is ver' necessary that you should form just
views upon such a question as this. What
are the conceivable reasons for a clandestine
marriage ? First, a vK^salliance on one side
or the other. Next, an evasion of authority
on one side or the other. Then consider that
the deceit is carried into life, and becomes a
part of it. Xo, no ; I cannot conceive of a
secret marriage as the act of a high-minded
man. I can understand, Denham, that you
find the theme a painful one, and I admit
that it would be Quixotic to quarrel with a
friend who will one day be able so favourably
to influence your own career.'

I suppose it really would have been Quixotic
to have closed Delamere's doors against
myself by resenting his implied opinion of

the value of my friendship. Any way I kept
silence, though Jones's smile of assent almost
forced me to unclose my lips. I had hardly
ever been so angry in my life as this dull
couple made me, but fortunately there came
a diversion, and the question was laid on
one side. Miss Grantley came in, and after
a time Delamere challenging Jones to a game
at chess, they retired together to the smoking-room
; and a little later Mary, gathering her
belongings into a little basket of quilted silk-work,
slipped from the room, leaving us
together for a time.

Clara and I had come to that stage in
which young people are aware already of
what is uppermost in each other's minds and
are forced into an unusual air of ca7iieraderie
and freedom. We talked with great gaiety,
with grisly silences between, and would rather
break these pauses by any kind of nonsense
than leave them to grow intolerable.

You used constantly to talk of your
friend Mr. Pole, Mr. Denham,' said Clara in

one such moment of extremity. ' You have
not spoken of him all the evening.'

We were talking of him at the moment
of your arrival,' I answered. ' Mr. Delamere
spoke ver)^ angrily of him and I defended
him.'

You ought not to have defended him,'
she answered warmly. ' I think he has behaved—
— '

She went no farther, but it was enough
for confirmation.

'I cannot see,' I answered, 'that he behaved
ill in any way. I know that he is
profoundly unhappy, though he allows nobody
to see it.'

'A man may be unhappy,' she rejoined,

but he has no right ' And there she

paused again.

I was guilty of an indiscretion, but I can
find ample excuses for myself.

Xo right to do what ? ' I asked. She
gave no answer. ' No right to make others
unhappy? Do you think, Miss Grantley,

VOL. I Q

that he ever guessed it ? He Is not a coxcomb
who goes about in fear of breaking
ladies' hearts.'

You say very odd things, Mr. Denham,'
she answered with an air of fine simplicity,
and the most barefaced pretence of not understanding
me, and of having offered no provocation
for this outburst. * I am not Hkely to
be brought to your opinion of Mr. Pole. I
think him very horrid.'

'You are quite wise not to understand
me,' I answered, and turned the conversation.
She was content to escape from her own
share of the responsibility of entering upon
it, but as our intimacy grew this broken
beginning of confidence was taken up again.
I don't know at this day how our own courtship
would have grown if it had not been
for the unhappy heart-affairs of Pole and
Mary Delamere. We should have found
some other way to sympathy, no doubt, but as
it happened that was the road we travelled.
Her love for Mary and my affection for Pole

led US back to the theme a thousand times,
and by and by we talked of it openly to each
other and with no pretence of disguise. She
was Mary Delamere's one confidante, and
even she, it seems, was left to guess a prodigious
deal more than she was told. Of
course I knew we were a sinfully indiscreet
and curious young couple to talk of the affairs
of others as we did ; but then we had countless
examples, and we were on such a footing of
intimacy that we had no secrets from each
other, with the exception of one which was
rather less of a secret to our world at large
than even to ourselves.

Jones, who in Pole's phrase came Sebastian
Dolmering into my chambers pretty often,
came down one day about a month after the
disclosure in a more than commonly sprightly
humour. I had never liked him from the
first hour, but he seemed to be altogether
unconscious of a want of friendly warmth on
my part, and was himself so uniformly amiable
that it was impossible to quarrel with him.
There was indeed nothing special about which
we could have quarrelled. Jones was a humbug,
but then there are so many humbugs in
the world that if a man took it upon himself
to quarrel with all of them whom he encountered
he would have his hands full.
The sterner sort of moralist may, if he

pleases, decline to hold intercourse with all
men who do not come up to his own lofty-standard.
The average creature, conscious
of his own imperfections, must rub along
with such society as he can get, and take
folks as he finds them. Considering how
very little Jones ever cared for me, and
considering that I had at best a dormant
contempt for Jones, it was really remarkable
to see how well we got on together.

He was always wonderfully attired, and
his appointments were as finished and natty
as those of the finest fine lady. He used to
smoke cigarettes of scented tobacco bound
in rose-coloured paper, and he carried about
him numberless little nicknames for personal
use. One of his favourite occupations was
to polish his nails, and for that purpose he
carried about with him a tiny gold-plated box
of some sort of powder and a little pad of
leather. He would polish and polish whilst
he talked of art and the destinies of humanity
and other noble and inspiring themes, and

would make his shining nails gleam this way
and that way by turning them against the
light, and would admire them with his head
on one side, whilst he paused for a descriptive
phrase or rounded a denunciatory period.

Early in our acquaintance I used to have
almost unconquerable impulses to assault
Jones whilst he aired these engaging little
ways of his. But in a while they ceased to
exasperate, and in a little while further began
to amuse, and then to soothe. It was consolatory
to reflect that in the depth of one's
daily descents into imbecility, one never fell
to that ; so that at the most despondent
moments Jones came as a sort of invigorate,
toning the moral system, and bringing encouragement
to the feeble.

On this particular day he came in, as I
have said, in an unusually sprightly humour.
He cracked a gentle joke or two, and that
bespoke the very highest spirits in him, an
almost reckless abandonment to gaiety. Asa
rule, Jones was afraid of a joke, and would

almost as soon have sat In the same room
with a humorist as with a mixed barrel of
lucifer-matches and fireworks. Pole, for instance,
who had much more of a habit of
thinking than of talking humorously, made
Jones uncomfortable by his very aspect. He
looked dangerous. There was never any
knowing when, and in what direction, he
might explode, and Jones's mental parlour
was trim and decorous, and full of fragile
curios. He had no liking for the exhibition
of Catherine-wheels and sky-rockets in that
delicately furnished, but limited enclosure.

I told him how bright he looked, and how
uncommonly gay he was, and he smiled back,
well pleased, pulling off his pretty lemon-coloured
gloves In the finest and most ladylike
manner. He examined his finger-nails
with scrupulous exactitude, smiled in the
mirror to inspect his teeth, arranged his hair
with a few dexterous feminine coaxinors of
the palms and fingers, and then lit one of his
pretty little cigarettes, and sat down. I was

positively pleased to see him. For the first
time I realised for myself the peculiar nature
of his charm.

I felt it at once a duty and a privilege to
make the most of him, and I tried to start
him upon the question of the proposed revolution
in the cut and colour of evening dress.
Here he disappointed me. He spoke of it
with a fervour which was too obviously unreal.
The stream was too far from its source,
and it flowed with a mournful paucity and
languor. I tried to start him on the larger
theme of the regeneration of the soul by
means of Japanese lacquer and the best
Dresden. Even here he would not dance
to my piping with anything of his accustomed
spirit and agility. In fine, it became evident
that there was something upon Jones's mind,
and in a while, after a circuitous fashion, it
came out.

Strange,' said Jones, after a pause of
some duration, ' how closely the development
of the individual soul follows the laws which

govern the development of the inert conglomerate
mass.'

I assented, and, like Beer Rabbit, I lay
low, and waited.

'Conditions,' said Jones, 'which even an
acute observer would suppose to be permanent
turn out to be transitory. When
one says permanent,' he added with his
explanatory air, which was always delightfully
comforting to his listener's amour pi^opre,
'one doesn't use the word, of course, with
any pretence to scientific accuracy. Permanence,
like other conditions, is only relative,
and is impossible in the abstract.'

I said that it was very nice to know this ;
and Jones, who was too firmly seated on horseback
to take note of any pebble in his conversational
charger's track, rode on regardful.

I had supposed myself to be fully convinced
upon one or two social questions upon
which I now discover that my mind has
undergone a change, imperceptible to myself
in its processes, and yet radical.'

I said that I was very pleased to hear it, I
was sure ; and he went on, taking no more
note of me than if he had been the hero in a
Greek drama and I the Chorus.

Take, for instance,' said Jones delicately,
the question of marriage. I am not, as a
matter of course, so mad or so blind as to
attach any value to the absurd sanctions of
the Church or the fallacious conclusions of
society.'

I was quite sure that Jones was superior
to those feebleness, and I said as much
with warmth. For the first time he took
notice of me, and seemed gratified by this
testimonial.

At this moment Pole, who had been back
from Worborough Court a week or two,
strolled in without announcement of himself,
and took a seat with one leg on either side
a chair and his elbows on the back of it. He
nodded to each of us, but said nothing.
Jones, I thought, was momentarily disconcerted
by the sight of him, but went on

directly, with some exaggeration of his best
lady-like tone and manner.

*Yet,' he continued, 'I have begun to
think of late that it is not well too suddenly
to combat the preconceptions of average
mankind. One can, of course, use satire, but
it needs to be delicate and veiled, and the
average man is, I fancy, unsusceptible to
satire.'

'There are people,' I ventured to say at
this juncture, seeing that Jones was perhaps
a little unsteady in his seat to his own fancy,
and needed bolstering there — 'there are
people on whom satire produces little effect.
Some of them are clever in a way ; rooted
fools by nature, who bear a weedy little
blossom of wit, and suppose themselves to
flower all over, like rhododendrons in the
season.'

'There,' said Jones, 'you touch the very
men I have in mind. The average stupid
man is not half so bad to deal with as the
man who bears that single flower of wit you

speak of. For my own part, I am a bit of a
philosopher. I am not merely open to conviction,
which is the first attitude of commonsense,
but I am willing to give and take, to
pay tithe of mint, and anise, and cummin,
even to the false deity of popular convention.
I am willing to concede that though by lending
the force of one's example to a doubtful
practice one may delay the hour of its abolition,
yet it is possible to subscribe to a social
usage if it should not be too harmful to the
general interest, and, having subscribed to it,
still hold the right of holding up one's
testimony against it. Marriage,' he continued,
passing his hand through his lustrous
Italian locks, and dividing them tenderly,
^ has become precisely one of those questions
to my mind, though a little while ago I
should scarcely have thought such an allowance
possible or desirable.'

He has come in out of the desert,' said
Pole. ' He has consented to be taken in
and curry-combed.'

I do not think that the Reverend Laurence
Sterne was likely to be one of Jones's literary
favourites, and so it is possible that the true
nuance of Pole's allusion escaped him. He
went on, apparently unmoved.

'There are men,' he said, *so pachydermatous
by nature, and by cultivation or the
want of it, that they are not to be touched
by any shaft of reason.'

You might,' said Pole, ' explode a lifts
pound shell in the interior of some of them,
and they'd go on quite calmly without the
merest notion that anything had happened.'

Jones assented cordially.

Upon my word,' he said, ' there are
people of that pattern. But, for my own
part, as I said before, I am open to conviction.
I am willing to give and take.'

I am willing,' said Pole, who was evidently
in a bitter humour, and ready to relieve himself
by any persiflage which might occur to
him, 'to take anything I can lay my hands
on.'

Jones cast a side way glance of friendly
allowance at him.

In this matter of marriage,' he pursued,
the whole question, as a matter of course, is
a matter of contract. There are two personalities
to be considered, and the stronger
has, by reason of its very strength, a right to
be allowing and indulgent to the weaker
vessel.'

I knew that there was nothing in Jones's
speech up till now to give me the merest
hint of the intention he was trying in his
own roundabout way to express. But that
phrase about the weaker vessel hit me hard.
I had used it to Pole by hazard, and it was
its employment which had led to the explanation
between us. I looked at Pole nervously,
but he had evidently allowed it to pass
without notice, as was only natural. I was
so certain in my own mind of the truth of
my own fancy, and was so embarrassed by
it, that I began at once to move about the
room as if the conversation had reached a

natural end, and there was no more to say.
But Pole, having no share in my fancies and
no divination of them, carried on the theme.
He had grown very mocking and bitter of
late, even with me, though never against me.

I suppose,' he said, looking at Jones,
you haven't been so cruel as to make the
tidings of your conversion public property ? '

So cruel ? ' said Jones inquiringly.

So cruel,' answered Pole. ' You haven't
awakened expectations in a million tender
bosoms which can only be fulfilled for one ? '
Jones said nothing, but smilingly lit a new
cigarette, and cast the remnant of the old
one into the fire. * You're going to get
married, Jones?' Pole went on. 'I say,
Denham, there's a public-house at the corner.
Let's go down, all three of us, and drink a
pot of stout apiece to the health of Jones's
future missis.'

'Upon my word, Pole,' said Jones, 'one
would hardly think that you had been breda
gentleman.'

We're all of the same base metal, Jones,'
Pole answered ; ' but the electorate gets
rubbed off some of us. There's an epergne
belonging to a bachelor uncle of mine in
which all the cherubs' noses are flat with
their faces, though they are made of solid
silver. I dare say they had the prettiest outlines
once upon a time. There's no knowing
what even you may come to. When I
contrast what you are with what you might
have been, and what you may be, I could
weep, upon my word of honour.'

It seemed to me so very probable that
Jones would by and by become aware of
Pole's intention to insult him, and the intention
in itself was so very obvious to me, that
I feigned suddenly to remember an appointment.
At this Jones got up to go, and I left
with him, bidding him good-bye at the end
of the court, and darting into Chancery
Lane as if in a mighty hurry. When the
threatened quarrel was averted I was still
very far from being at ease ; and though I

tried to attach no more value to my fancies
than I could help, they clung to me with a
ridiculous persistence. They worried me so
much at last that, when I had dined alone, I
betook myself to Cromwell Terrace. Mr.
Delamere was dining out that evening, and
Mary and Clara were alone together. When
we had talked for a little while, our hostess
slipped away, as she had got into a habit of
doing, and left the two young people to
themselves.

I had no ground to go on, but the question
was so near my heart that I must needs
approach it.

Mr. Jones,' I said as lightly as I could,
'honoured my rooms this afternoon.'

Pray,' returned Clara, with an acerbity
and decision I had never noticed in her till
then, 'don't talk to me of Mr. Jones. I
have heard enough of Mr. Jones to last my
lifetime.'

In spite of this command I ventured to
ask if Jones had distinguished himself in

VOL. I R

such a way of late as to earn this marked
increase of her displeasure.

Now, Mr. Denham,' said Miss Grantley
decisively, ' I want you to understand that
I shall look upon any pressure on this point
as being unfriendly. I am literally dying to
tell you all about it, and if you press me I
shall give way. I know I shall, and I know
that I ought not to. I'm sure that you are not
the man to endanger a poor girl's self-respect. '

Whether the reader choose to believe it
or not I accepted this as a prohibition, and
found another theme for converse. But Miss
Grantley fidgeted and, if one can say it of so
gentle a creature, grew absolutely snappish.
The dull, inapprehensive male intelligence
was at a loss. I was meek and submissive,
but full of doubts and wonders, not guessing
what I could possibly have done to ruffle a
temper commonly so gentle.

You are very stupid this evening, Mr.
Denham,' she said with a voice of dreary
resignation.

Am I ? ' I answered. * I am afraid I am.
You seem vexed. What have I done to vex
you :

I went on to say that I would rather do a
variety of particularised dreadful things than
cause her a moment's annoyance. She relented
and explained, though still with a
lingering touch of ill-humour.

*I tell you,' she said, 'that I am dying
to tell you something, and I tell you that I
ought not to say anything about it."

'You begged me not to press you," I
answered, 'and I did not.'

Precisely,' she said, dropping back into
a corner of the sofa in a sort of languid comic
despair.

Oh !' I said, beginning to be enlightened,
I ought to have asked ? I ought to have
pressed you .-^ ' A gleam of returning cheerfulness
displayed itself in her countenance,
and was instantly dismissed. ' Let me beg
of you to tell me,' I implored with mock
earnestness. ' I am consumed by curiosity.

If you refuse this prayer I cannot answer for
the consequences.'

In that case,' she replied demurely, ' I
can reveal my secret. I cannot bear to see
a fellow-creature suffer.'

She clasped her hands and, leaning forward,
murmured with a subdued intensity of
scorn,

Mr. Jones has had the insolence to propose
to Mary Delamere.'

'I hope with all my heart,' said I, 'that
Miss Delamere will not throw herself away
upon him.'

I told her, when I heard of it,' said this
resolute young person, who was sprouting
this evening with unexpected characteristics,
that I would never speak to her again if
she did. There was not the slightest need to
say so, for Mary has no more thought of
uniting herself to that tinkling cymbal than
I have.'

I confess that I was not in the least sorry
for Jones's blighted hopes. I did not think

that any purpose he might form was likely to
take great hold upon him. His sentiments
were not of the sort that plant a terrible fixed
foot, and are not rooted up without blood.
I could fancy Jones deserting any sandy
anchorage he might find, and getting underway
with little compunction or regret for
other shores.

'Mary,' said Clara decisively, but with a
touch of very warm and very real sympathy,
has troubles enough of her own and to spare
already. As for what they are, that is no
business of yours or mine or anybody's. I
don't know, I'm sure, how such a girl came to
have such a father. Mr. Delamere is wrapped
up in his precious godson. They sit together,
and the Sounding Brass flatters the Tinkling
Cymbal, and the Tinkling Cymbal flatters the
Sounding Brass, until I declare that my fingers
itch to box the ears of both of them. I give
you my word of honour, Mr. Denham,'
she concluded, with an air of deep contrition,
there are moments when the contemplation

of that pair makes me feel quite unladylike.'


I had never allowed myself so much
latitude of expression with respect to
Messrs. Delamere and Jones, but I accepted
Miss Grantley's description with
such cordiality that she was encouraged to
continue.

We have had a lecture from papa this
morning,' she said. ' It was my privilege to
hear it.' She assumed, upon a sudden, .so
ludicrous a resemblance to the Delamere voice
and manner that I laughed aloud. I saw the
dangled pince-nez swinging to and fro in the
imitative fingers. It perched at times with a
solemn grace upon the pert and pretty little
nose, which somehow, to my wonderment,
contrived for the moment to look like the
aristocratically-refined beak of the great critic.
But the words to me were the richest part of
the imitation. * Strange,' she began in the
Delamere voice, 'how closely the development
of the individual soul follows the laws

which govern the development of the inert,
conglomerate mass.'

Wait, wait ! ' I cried. ' Allow me. Conditions,'
I pursued, ' which even an acute
observer would suppose to be permanent
turn out to be transitory. When one says
permanent, one does not use the word, of
course, with any pretence of scientific accuracy.'


Her eyes glittered, and she rose to her
feet, dancing in a very revel of mirth.

He has been with you this afternoon,' she
said. ' He has poured all this out upon you.
Oh, they're delicious ! They make me so
angry that I feel ashamed and wicked. But
oh ! I wouldn't miss them for the world ! '

On the very top of this declaration Jones
entered smilingly. I blessed my stars for his
sake that he had not arrived a moment
earlier. He had the run of the house, and
came in and out like a member of the family,
so that perhaps it was a little dangerous to
discuss him with too much freedom there.

Miss Grantley's mirth was changed by a
most sudden transformation. To have looked
at her a second after Jones's arrival, one
would have supposed her incapable of merriment.


Miss Delamere?' said Jones, in his silvery
voice, smiling from one to the other of us.

I believe,' replied Miss Grantley, with a
sudden overwhelming stateliness, 'that Miss
Delamere has retired to her own room. I
think it is not her intention to return again
this evening. I wish you good-night, Mr.
Denham.'

With that she sailed from the apartment,
leaving Jones and myself looking at each
other a trifle foolishly.

The winter had been unusually severe, and
the spring seemed to delay itself unconscionably.
Every week the newspapers recorded
the death of some elderly celebrity. Fog,
rain, protracted frost, east winds, made havoc
amongst the old and feeble. Lord Marlborough
was going. The impending title and
great fortune hung over Pole, it would have
seemed, like a threatening shadow. I am
certain that he was so far from desiring either
of them that if he could have seen a reasonable
way of evading them he would willingly
have taken it. Twice he went down to Marlborough
Court, and each time spent a week
there in expectation of the old man's demise.
His lordship rallied, and Pole came back

again, melancholy and bitter. He told meat
a moment when his mood was a little less
harsh than it had grown commonly to be in
those days, that Lord Worborough laid that
unhappy marriage very much to heart. He
was the seventh holder of the title, and had
hoped that it would be transmitted through a
long line.

It's a dream,' said Pole. ' It doesn't
matter much to him, poor old fellow. Whether
the line may be extended or cut short will
make no difference to him when he is tucked
away under his green bed-clothes.'

He spoke very affectionately of the old
man always, and to any one who had seen
them together it was evident that his lordship,
however disappointed he might be, had formed
a very strong liking for the man who was to
come after him.

It was raining heavens hard one memorable
afternoon late in April, when Pole and
I sat reading together, or making a pretence
to read, in his chambers. A knock sounded

at the door, and I, being the nearer of the
two, rose to open it. The visitor, of all unexpected
men in the world, was the little Jew
solicitor, Goldsmith. He wore a mackintosh,
shining with rain from heel to shoulder, and
carried a dripping umbrella in his hand.
There was a very unusual and remarkable
expression in his face, a look which impressed
me very strongly, though I could neither
analyse nor define it. He was pale, and
labouring under some strongly suppressed
excitement. He mio-ht, bv the look of him,
have been going to be hanged.

He walked past me into the room, leaving
his umbrella in the stand, and when I had
closed the door and entered after him, he was
standing beside Pole, who, with an expression
of surprised disdain, was looking at him over
one shoulder.

'Well,' said Pole, curtly and contemptuously,
' what is your business ? '

Bister Pole,' said Goldsmith, whose
breathing was hard and thick, like that of a

man who has been running beyond his pace,
there are moments when rancour comes to
nothing between gentlemen.'

Are there indeed ? ' asked Pole.
There are, indeed,' Goldsmith responded.
The little Jew's aspect had an influence
upon Pole, as I could see plainly. He rose
with an indefinable look, and wheeling his
chair half round, rested one knee upon the
seat, and with both hands grasping the back,
surveyed the intruder.

I suppose,' he said, ' that you have some
sort of business here. Will you be good
enough to get it over ? '

For sole answer Goldsmith, with trembling
fingers, began to unbutton his wet waterproof.
The noise of his breathing, the ticking of a
clock upon the mantelpiece, and the clatter of
a burning coal which fell upon the fender,
were the only audible sounds. Either Goldsmith's
agitation made him clumsy, or the
buttons of the waterproof were unusually
refractory. He conquered them at last, and

producing a pocket - book from an inner
pocket, he advanced a step or two and laid it
on the table. It opened with a spring clasp,
and revealed a bulky mass of papers. His
agitated fingers wandered among these, leaving
wet marks upon them, until at last he
selected one from the rest, opened it, and laid
it upon the table before Pole. I looked at
Pole's face, and saw a sudden dreadful change
in it. He glanced from the paper to Goldsmith,
from Goldsmith to me, and back
to the paper again, like a man dazed by a
blow upon the head. Then recovering, he
took the paper — a long blue slip — in both
hands, and stared at it for a minute. After
this he stretched it out to me, saying nothing.
Goldsmith's strained manner, and Pole's
extraordinary reception of the document, had
prepared me to find curious matter in it, but
I had not in the least expected what I saw.
It was a copy of the certificate of the death of
Adelaide Pole. I looked at the date, and saw
that the event had happened a week ago.

THE WEAKER VESSEL chap.

She seems,' said Goldsmith, who was more
moved than I should have fancied possible
about such a matter, ' to have gone off very
quietly at the finish, poor thing.'

I glanced at the certificate again, and saw
that spinal injury and shock were assigned as
the causes of death. Pole took the paper
from my fingers and sat down, as if to study
it. The certificate rustled in his hands, and
in a little while he laid it on the table and
looked up at Goldsmith.

How is it,' he asked, ' that I did not learn
of this before ? '

Goldsmith, before answering, turned over
the papers from his pocket-book and selected
another from amongst them. His hands
were trembling more than ever, and his face
was curiously mottled.

I was in the country when the thing took
place. Bister Pole,' he said in a choked voice.
I was going about from one town to another
on business, and my letters got delayed. I
didn't hear of the melancholy circumstance till

four days after it occurred. Then I despatched
this telegram to my chief clerk. I only got
back to town this morning. I thought it was
best to bring the news personally.'

Pole took the telegram the little Jew extended
to him, and having glanced over it,
handed it to me. It ran thus: 'Moss, 215
Hatton Garden. From Goldsmith, Chester.
Let funeral be decently conducted. Will myself
communicate with husband.'

'This,' said Goldsmith, fumbling anew
amongst his papers and selecting a third
document, ' is the certificate of burial. I
don't know. Bister Pole, whether you'd care
to have any sort of memorial set up, or
whether you'll take that into your own
hands .^ '

His voice grew more muffled and tremulous
as he spoke, and he had some ado to
gather up the papers he had scattered about
the table. I had never expected to find such
signs of sensibility in the man, and I thought
that his emotion did him credit. It was quite

possible that he might have supposed Mrs.
Pole to be a deeply-injured woman, and that
in the course of the services he had rendered
her he had grown to be a partisan. The
poor thing had no doubt told her story to her
own advantage, had exculpated herself, and
cast all blame upon her husband. That, of
course, was natural, and it was not unnatural
that Goldsmith should have believed in her,
and have been shocked and grieved at her
sudden and early death. He must at least, I
thought, have cared vastly more for her than
the ordinary solicitor cares for an ordinary
client.

He had gathered his belongings together,
and stood prepared to go. Pole had risen to
his feet, and was walking slowly and thoughtfully
up and down the room.

There's a mere matter of business. Bister
Pole,' said Goldsmith haltingly, * if I might
section it at such a time. I've sent your
cheque for Mrs. Pole's quarterly income to
my bankers in the ordinary course. The

poor lady only drew on me for a fortnight,
and there'll be something left when everything
is paid. I'll send in my account, and
a cheque for the balance. I wish you good
afternoon, Bister Pole — good afternoon,
Bister Denham.'

We both returned his parting salutation,
and Pole's voice had a tone of unusual gentleness
in it, almost of apology. The little Jew-went
his way and we were left to ourselves.

For a long time not a word was spoken —
I dare say, indeed, that we sat in silence for
an hour. Pole had mechanically taken up his
book again, and sat staring at the open pages ;
but he never turned a leaf When at last he
looked up at me his eyes were moist, and
there was a softened look in his face.

'Jack,' he said, 'will you come out with
me ? '

I answering in the affirmative, he promised
to join me in five minutes, and I went downstairs
to my own rooms, and there made
ready for out-of-doors. It was raining in
VOL. I S

torrents still when we turned out upon Lowborn.
Pole hailed a cab, and gave the cabman
instructions to drive to the cemetery at
Kensal Green. The rain pelted down monotonously,
racing in little rivulets down the
glass before us, and blotting out the landscape
of the streets. We were both unusually
subdued, and neither had anything to
say to the other. It was too early after the
receipt of the news to experience anything of
that sense of relief which it was ultimately
bound to bring, and for my own part I should
have resented any such sensation in myself
as an impiety. I thought of the poor creature's
threat to Pole, ' I will make your life a
burden to you,' and I reflected on its futility,
and on the uncertainty of all human promise,
whether for good or evil. Her life must needs
have been profoundly wretched to have left
such an impress on her face as I remembered.
The certificate of death gave her age at
twenty-eight years. I had supposed her to
be much older, for the set scorn and hatred

and hard misery of her face seemed scarcely
possible for one so young. Looking back
upon the face as I remembered it, it was
evident that it had once been superbly handsome.
I thought of youth and beauty defaced
and ruined by self-will and the one vice
to which the unhappy woman had clung, and
now that she was gone, and could work no
evil any more, I pitied that brief life-tragedy
profoundly. I knew — there was no need of
words between us — that Pole s thoughts ran
in the same channel as my own. Once, his
hand falling accidentally upon mine, he
clasped it very strongly and firmly ; but that
was the only sign that was made on either
side.

We reached the cemetery', and having
made inquiries at the lodge as to the whereabouts
of the grave, we walked towards it.
The rain-soaked mound of newly-turned earth
looked very raw and desolate. There is
nothing in the world so desolate to look at asa
new-made grave. I have looked on many

since that day, and some of them have covered
the remains of those who have been very
dear to me, yet I have never felt the sense
so clearly.

We turned away in silence and went home.
The man at the lodge stood sheltered from
the rain in his own doorway, and looked at
us, I thought, a little callously. Yet, of course,
it was no affair of his, and usage makes the
griefs of others of little weight to us.

In my affection for Pole, and in the ardour
with which I espoused his cause, I had gone
as near to hating that unhappy wife of his
as I had ever gone to hating anybody. But
now that she could work no more mischief,
my thoughts softened towards her. In the
course of a day or two Pole began to talk
about her in a chastened way, and it became
evident that he had once held a very real
affection for her. He told me, bit by bit,
the whole story of their separation. It is not
necessary to repeat it here, and there are too
many cases like it in the world to make it

novel enough to be worth the telling. The
sordid, miserable history of drink and an
ungovernable temper, the sorriest, meanest,
ugliest of tragedies, a tale worth no man's
relating and no man's hearing. He told it
gently and with pity, and when it was once
told we closed the page which held the story,
and resolved (as we thought) to turn back toit
no more.

My friend charged me with the performance
of the last dues of respect, and went
down to Worborough Court, leaving me alone
in London. I followed the instructions he
left with me, and in the meantime his letters
bore but one allusion to the event of his wife's
death. 'Lord Worborough,' he wrote, 'was
relieved at the news I had to give him, and
I sincerely believe that the mere fact of this
grief being lifted from his mind may add a
year or two to his life. He has taken an
extraordinary liking to me, and I could find
it in my heart to wish that we had known
each other longer. I shall probably spend

most of my time with him now, for the old
boy clings to me, and he is really such a fine
and noble old fellow that I am almost as fond
of him as he of me. He suffers a great deal,
but he is very game about it, and altogether
he is the very finest specimen of the fine old
English gentleman it has been my luck to
encounter anywhere. I hope he'll flourish
for many a day to come.'

It is not good to think of the death of any
human creature being hailed, no matter with
what inward reluctance, as a relief, but Mrs.
Pole's departure lifted a dreadful shadow
from the hearts of those who had been most
concerned with her, and it would have been
a sheer hypocrisy to have professed to mourn
her. To forgive, and then, as speedily as
might be, to forget, was all she could have
asked from the world.

Six or seven weeks later, when the skies
had cleared, and the long - deferred early
summer was upon us, shining with such a

splendour as half obliterated the memory of
cold and storm, I paid a second and a final
visit to the cemetery at Kensal Green. I
had a companion — a companion too light and
young for a visit to that home of mournful
memories. But Clara and I had spoken so
often of Pole's freedom, and in the mind of
each there was so evident a result to spring
from it, that she had grown as interested as
I myself was ; and when I made that final,
necessary visit to the place to see that Pole's
injunctions had been properly fulfilled, she
needed little persuasion to accompany me.

When I had last seen the place it had
seemed the very home of desolation ; but
now with the bright May sunshine and the
bright May flowers, and the chirping of innumerable
birds, it had another aspect, and
seemed to speak with a voice of tender
reconciliation to the inevitable doom. God's
Acre !

The grave was neatly railed. The new-laid
turf was bright and green, and flowers

shone above it and diffused their gentle
odours. The stone bore a simple inscription
— 'In Memory of Adelaide Pole' — then
the date of death and the age, and below the
three words, ' Here is Rest ! ' Rest was possible
for the living as well as for the dead,
and I suppose that Pole had chosen that
brief inscription with some eye to its double
meaning.

As we had walked together I had related
to Clara, as far as I could do without shocking
her, the story Pole had told me. She
had been very strongly prejudiced against
him, and had been more inclined to champion
the wife's cause than the husband's. I had
ventured to hint shyly of my certainty of
Pole's affections for Miss Delamere, and I
went so far as to indicate my belief that the
affection was returned. We were both saddened
and solemnised by our visit to the
place, and yet there was a sense of our own
affection in our minds. My wife has told
me, long ago, that she was certain even before

that day of my love for her, and I remember
well a sort of trembling certainty of hers.
We walked about the place of graves in the
sunshine with our own hearts beating to that
eternal, beautiful tune to whose music the
whole world marches. It was more solemn
than it often sounds, and gentler, but it
sounded all the same.

I pleaded Pole's cause with her. It was
unlikely that he would speak for a long time
to come, but I begged her not to use any
influence she might have with 2^1 miss Delamere
against him.

If she cares for him,' I urged, 'you can
only grieve her, but can never change her
mind.' And, standing before the tombstone,
I appealed to her. ' There is rest
here,' I said. ' Let the living have rest as
well.'

She answered in a subdued voice,

I believe that salary cared for him before
she knew of this unhappy marriage. I believe
that she will never care for anybody else.

I am quite sure that nothing any one could
say could alter her, for she is not a girl to be
moved by anybody's words.'

'Then, at least,' I answered, * you will say
nothing that could give her pain. There is
no higher-minded, nobler-hearted mean in the
world than Pole.'

Why should I say a word to hurt her ? '
she asked me. ' She is the dearest friend I
have in the world.'

END OF VOL. I

Printed by R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh

Aunt Rachel : A Rustic Sentimental Comedy. New and
Cheaper Edition. Globe 8vo. 2s.

The Times says: "This is a charming idyll of village life. . . . These sturdy inhabitants
of the Black Country, before it was verj- black, are altogether lifelike, and
withal infinitely humorous and pleasing."

The AthettiFiim says : " Aunt Rachel is an excellent piece of work, in some respects
the best he has done. . To do justice to the conversation would require more quotation
than space can be spared for, but it is delightfully humorous."

The Acadeffiy says : " The most artistic achievement we have yet had from his pen."

The Guardian says : " The story' is told in Mr. Christie Murray's best manner ; our
readers will scarcely need to be informed how good that manner is."

NEW NOVELS.

By F. MARION CRAWFORD.
With the Immortals. By F. Marion Crawford, Author
of 'Mr. Isaacs,' 'Doctor Claudius,' 'Paul PatofF,' etc. Second and
Cheaper Edition. 2 vols. Globe 8vo. 12s.

The Spectator says : " To do justice to Mr. Crawford's remarkable book hy extracts
would be impossible. . . . All we can do is to select one or two bright passages .short
enough to transfer to our columns . It is a book which, whatever judgments maybe
passed upon its form, cannot fail to please a reader who enjoys crisp, clear, vigorous
writing, and thoughts that are alike original and suggestive."

The Literary World says : " The experiment is a daring one, and, on the whole, is a
distinct success. The book contains some of the finest passages Mr. Crawford has ever
written. Again and again he has reached a level, both in feeling and expression, which,
so far as we remember, he has never touched before."

The Glasgow Herald says : " With the Immortals is unquestionably the cleverest
and most thoughtful piece of literary' work that Mr. Marion Crawford has yet produced.
. . Those who care for pure literature will prize the story — if story' it can be called — as
one of the freshest, most cultured, and suggestive productions of recent years. It is a
work of exceptionally fine literary quality."

The Globe says: "The result is agreeable as the method is clever. . . . The book
will appeal successfully to the educated reader. It contains many admirably written
passages."

The Morning Post says : " Mr. Crawford's book is a clever ;>« d' esprit"

By WILLIAM ISIINTO.

The Mediation of Ralph Hardelot. By William Into,

Author of ' The Crack of Doom.' 3 vols. Crown 8vo, this. 6d.

By J. H. SHORTIIOUSE.
The Countess Eve. By J. H. Shorthouse, Author of ' John
Inglesant,' ' The Little Schoolmaster Mark,' etc. Crown 8vo.

[I/u mediately.

By CHARLOTTE M. Yonge.
Beechcroft at Rockstone. By Charlotte ^L Yonge.
2 vols. Crown 8vo. 12s. [Shortly.

By BRET HARTE.
Cressy. By Bred Harte. 2 vols. [/« the press.

Macmillan AND CO., LONDON.

WESTWARD HO !

HERB WARD THE WAKE.

TWO YEARS AGO.

By Charles Kingsley.

I ALTON LOCKE. With Portrait.
Hepatic.
YEAST.

By Charlotte M. Yonge.

With Illustrations by Kate Greenaway, Herbert Gandy, Adrian Stokes, J. P.
Atkinson, Marion Huxley, W. J. Hennessy, and Jane E. Cook.

THE HEIR OF Radcliffe.

Heartless.

HOPES AND FEARS.

DYNEVOR TERRACE.

THE DAISY CHAIN.

THE TRIAL. ^

THE PILLARS OP The HOUSE. 2 Vols.

CLEVER WOMAN OP THE FAMILY. '

THE YOUNG STEPMOTHER.

THE THREE BRIDES.

MY YOUNG Allies.

THE CAGED LION.

THE DOVE IN THE EAGLE'S NEST.

THE CHAPLET OP PEARLS.

LADY HESTER and THE Dangers

PAPERS.
MAGNUM BONUM.
LOVE AND LIFE.
UNKNOWN TO HISTORY.
STRAY PEARLS.
THE ARMOURER'S 'PRENTICES.
THE TWO SIDES OF THE SHIELD.
NUTTIE's FATHER.
SCENES AND CHARACTERS.
CHANTRY HOUSE.
A MODERN TELEMACHUS.



By the Author of "John Halifax, Gentleman.

Illustrated by J. M.

AGATHA'S HUSBAND. Illustrated by

Walter Crane.
MY MOTHER AND I. Illustrated.
MISS TOMMY. Illustrated by F. Noel

Paton.
KING ARTHUR : Not a Love Story.

By Annie Weary.

CASTLE DALY. | OLDBURY. I A DOUBTING HEART.
A YORK AND A LANCASTER ROSE. | CLEMENCY Franklin.

By Henry James.

THE Gillies.

M'Ralston.

THE HEAD OF THE FAMILY. Illustrated
by Walter Crane.

OLIVE. Illustrated by G. Bowers.

THE EUROPEANS.

THE AMERICAN.

DAISY MILLER: AN INTERNATIONAL

EPISODE, etc.
RODERICK HUDSON.
THE MADONNA OF THE FUTURE, and

other Tales.

WASHINGTON SQUARE: THE Pension
BEAUREPAS: A BUNDLE OF
LETTERS.

THE PORTRAIT OF A LADY.

STORIES REVIVED. Two Vols. Ps. each.

THE PRINCESS CASAMASSIMA.

THE BOSTONIANS.

THE REVERBERATOR.

TOM BROWN'S SCHOOLDAYS. TOM BROWN AT OXFORD.

MISS BRETHERTON. By Mrs. Humphrey Ward.

MITCHELHURST PLACE. By Margaret Veley.

JILL. By E. A. Dillwyn.

THE Cerulean : A Vacation Idyll. By H. S. Cunningham.

NEiERA : A Tale of Ancient Rome. By J. W. Graham.

THE WOODLANDERS. By Thomas Hardy.

A BELEAGUERED CITY. By Mrs. Oliphant.

By J. Henry Shorthouse.

JOHN Inelegant. | SIR PERCIVAL.

A TEACHER OF THE VIOLIN.
THE LITTLE SCHOOLMASTER MARK. 4s. 6d.

Works by F. Marion Crawford.

In Crown Svo, 6s. each.
ZOROASTER. I A TALE OF A LONELY PARISH.

PAUL PATOFF. | MARZIO's CRUCIFIX.

In Crown Svo, 4s. 6d. each.
MR. ISAACS : A Tale of Modern India.
DR. CLAUDIUS : A True Story. | A ROMAN SINGER.

MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.

WEAKER VESSEL

BY

D. CHRISTIE MURRAY

AUTHOR OF 'Joseph's coat,' ' rainbow gold,' ' aunt rachel,' etc.

IX THREE VOLS.
VOL. IL

ilonticin
MACMILLAN AND CO.

AND NEW YORK


All rights reserved

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/weakervessel02murr

CHAPTER XVI

Calling one evening at Cromwell Terrace,

^ about a fortnight after the incident just

^ recorded, I found ]\Iiss Delamere alone. I

had not the slightest doubt in the world that

•jjshe understood perfectly well the reasons for

gmy frequent visits there, and yet I was too

shy to ask if Clara were at home. She held

me mischievously in suspense for a time.

Do you know,' she asked at length, ' that
we have a visitor here ? A lady arrived
this afternoon to whom I expect you to pay
great attentions. I want you very much to
impress her favourably. In point of fact,'
she added laughingly, ' I expect you to pay
court to her with o^reat assiduity.'

o .■

VOL. II B

I said something to the effect that her
wishes were Hkely to be disappointed ; but
she shook her head at this, with a perfect
decision of certainty.

You will no sooner have seen this lady,'
she told me, ' than you will make love to her.
You will endeavour, by every means in your
power, to ingratiate yourself in her favour.'

Because you wish it ? ' I inquired.

Not in the least because I wish it,' she
answered enigmatically, * though I do wish
it, all the same.'

Whilst I was still wondering who this
visitor might be, and for what object I was
expected to be unusually polite and amiable
to her, the door opened, and Clara entered
with her arm about the waist of a lady of
five-and-forty, whom I at once recognised
from her portrait and from her likeness to
Clara. Mrs. Grantley had snow-white hair,
and at a little distance looked much older than
she really was. But she had bright eyes, perfect
teeth, and a dazzling natural complexion

which made her, when seen near at hand, look
much younger than she really was. She had
something of the air of a pretty woman of
eight-and-twenty masquerading as a matron.

I was introduced to her. and was cordially
enough received, though the politeness of
her demeanour barely seemed to cover the
particular closeness of the scrutiny to which
I was subjected. The bright eyes travelled
swiftly and decisively all over me, and I
felt as if I were beincr weighed in the
balances, and, in all respects, found wanting.
We our sat down together and talked. I
was aware of a desperate attempt on the part
of Clara" and ]\Iiss Delamere to put me at
my ease, and I am sure that if no such
attempt had been made I should have got
there much earlier than I did. Clara was ina
state of such high good spirits, and was
withal so shy and discomposed by moments,
that I was sure that mamma had already
been taken into confidence.

In a while I grew to be more myself, and

the remainder of the evening passed agreeably
enough. I was invited to luncheon on
the morrow, but I had no opportunity of
seeing Clara alone that evening. She and
her mother retired early whilst I was saying
my good-byes to Miss Delamere ; and Mary,
who was looking brighter and happier than
I had seen her for a long time, took me
gently to task as to my gattcherie in the
earlier part of the evening.

'Pray,' I besought her, 'never try to
put me at my ease again. There is nothing
in the world so disconcerting.'

She laughed at this, but promised, and I
went away, cheered by her assurance that I
had not made an unfavourable impression.
This comfortable belief did not linger long.
As I walked homeward I recalled everything
that had been said and done, and remembered
how I had been silent in the wrong
places and talkative in the wrong places. I
reconstructed the whole conversation of the
evening half a score of times, and came

through triumphantly, delivering myself of
the most profound and brilliant observations,
and covering myself with glory. Then once
(to the profound astonishment of a lounging
cabman on his box) I moaned aloud to
think that my actual conduct had been sofar
removed from my ideal. I pursued this
drear)' and unprofitable exercise through
half the night, and when I got to sleep
dreamed that I had fallen so completely
under the bane of Mrs. Grantley's disapproval
that she was actually on her knees
before mr. Delamere, begging him, with
tears, to use his influence in placing me in
an asylum. mr. Delamere declined, but
Jones came suddenly from nowhere, and
offered smilingly to do the thing at once,
taking so evident a pleasure in it that my
indignation awoke me. The satire of my
dream was so far overdone that it did much
to restore my equilibrium. Things would
hardly come to that pass, I thought, and fell
to sleep again, a little comforted.

I had never, so far as I can remember,
been once assailed until now by the temptations
of the demon of dandyism. But in the
morning I was profoundly exercised as to
my choice of garments, and I spent a good
quarter of an hour amongst my neckties.
When I was at last attired to my own complete
dissatisfaction it was time to start, and
too late to change anything.

Mrs. Grantley was just as amiable and
just as watchful as she had been on the previous
evening. She had impressed me from
the first as a person of unusual resolution
and decision ; but I was hardly prepared for
the exhibition of those qualities which she
almost immediately afforded me.

'You and Miss Delamere,' she said, addressing
Clara after luncheon, ' are going
out shopping together ? So I understood.
Mr. Denham, I am sure, will be good
enough to take care of me for a little time.
I am going for a walk in the park, Mr.
Denham.'

I signified my assent with what I am
afraid must have been a suspicious promptitude
; but I saw Clara looking piteously at
me through the glass with ' clasped, petitioning
hands.' The glance and the attitude
seemed to prophesy the ordeal to which I
was about to be subjected, and for a moment
I felt horribly nervous and depressed — very
much, I fancy, as a physical coward would
feel on being told off for a forlorn hope. Ina
minute or two I had rallied so far as to
assure myself that Mrs. Grantley could
hardly be in a greater hurry than I was to
arrive at an understanding.

The girls went away together, and did
not return. Mrs. Grantley disappeared fora
minute only, and came back looking very
young and charming, with her white hair
concealed beneath her bonnet. We set out
together in the early afternoon sunshine, and
talked of trifles until we reached the park.
There she chose seats in a secluded place,
and opened her maternal batteries at once

with a self-possession which I envied, but
could not imitate.

I want to speak to you, Mr. Denham,'
she said, 'very seriously.'

I murmured something about being completely
at her service, and awaited the instant
massacre of my hopes.

It seems,' she began, ' to be a recognised
thing in the minds of Miss Delamere and my
daughter that some understanding, exists
between you and Clara. Now, as Clara's
mother, it is my duty to tell you that no
understanding can possibly exist between
you two young people as yet.'

If she had been less brusque and straightforward
it would certainly have been the
worse for my self-possession. But her very
outspokenness helped me to be at ease. I
assured her that I did not as yet expect to
secure any promise, and that I had not
attempted to secure it.

'That is all very well, Mr. Denham,'
the lady answered. ' I ought to have

known better than to leave Clara so long
alone under the guardianship of a girl
so little older than herself. I am not
going to blame anybody for the consequences
of my own indiscretion ; but I
must tell you, Vlx. Denham. that I do not
think you have behaved at all well in this
matter.'

I could not see this, and I said as much,
with great respect and diffidence.

I beg your pardon, ]mr. Denham,' said
Mrs. Grantley, ' you have not behaved well.
You have been paying constant and marked
attention to a young and inexperienced girl,
without the knowledge and consent of her
one natural guardian. Now I know all
about the affections, and the heart, and that
sort of thing, and I know that it is quite
possible for a boy and girl to think that
the world is coming to an end and the sun
going to be extinguished because a girl
has a sensible mother ; but my duty is to
see to Clara's happiness, her solid, lasting

happiness, and not to encourage a mere
whim.'

If I have not made it clear by this time
that I was at this period of my Hfe a hyper-sensitive
and abnormally shy young man, I
have very insufficiently indicated my own
most striking characteristics. But I woke
up here. I cannot recall the words I used,
and I dare say that a great deal of what I
said would sound exaggerated and romantic
if it were written down. I hope so. It is
no part of the business of a lad in love with
an angel to have the reason and measurement
in terms of middle age. I told her, I
remember, amongst other things, to consider
what a beautiful and charming girl Clara
was. In the frank simplicity and boyishness
of this declaration I had. Heaven
knows, no faintest idea of diplomacy, and yet
I could hardly have done better if I had been
the cleverest diplomat alive. I warmed to
that entrancing theme and poured my heart
out, and I know now that mamma was by

no means displeased at my eulogy. Then I
went on, as I recall, to say that I was not
anybody in particular up till that time, but
that I meant, if only time were allowed me,
to be somebody very particular indeed. I
would work and fight the world, and wait. I
asked nothing but that she should not come
between us, that she should give me opportunity
to strive to become worthy of a life-partnership
with all those excellencies I had
so warmly pictured.

She listened with great patience and kindness,
smiling now and then, and when I had
done she said —

You talk of your ambitions. What are
they ? Tell me about yourself. Tell me
who you are, and what you are, and what you
hope to be.'

I have known men to whom a conversational
overture of this kind and the chance it
afforded would seem to open up a glimpse of
paradise. But I entered on it mournfully,
and with deep misgivings. ]\Iy father, I told

her, had farmed his own land, and very Httle
of it, in Warwickshire. In his day, my grandfather
had farmed it before him, and his
grandfather before him. On my mother's
side there was pretty much the same tale to
tell — a tale of dull respectability, extending
over six or seven generations, and having
its origin in fog. My parents having been
gathered to their fathers years ago, my elder
brother farmed the family acres, and I had a
fortune of three hundred pounds a year. I
had read for the bar, and expected to be
called almost immediately. I had written for
the magazines, and had added not less than a
hundred pounds a year to my annual income
for the past two years. I was preparing a
book about social problems, and when I had
finished my work of inquiry amongst the
poor in London, I meant to go over to Paris,
and there to complete the work by a study
on the same lines. In the meantime I should
earn more than enough to live upon, since
I was promised employment in Paris by

the editor of an important London daily
journal.

'Well, now, Mr. Denham,' she said, when
she had heard me out, ' you see that your
projects are very much in the air at present.
You have been very candid, so far ; let me
ask you a single question : What do you know
about Clara's position and prospects ? "

I knew nothing whatever, and I said so.
She looked at me with those bright eyes of
hers, and I looked back at her in appeal and
anxiety. I was not in the least thinking
about Clara's position and prospects, and I
suppose that she either saw as much, or
thought she did. She smiled and nodded as
she said —

I am very glad of that. But my daughter,
mr. Denham, though she will never be a
great heiress, will be in such a position that
she will have a right to look far higher than
any place you can offer her as your wife for
years to come, however successful you maybe.
It would be cruel and useless to pretend

to you now that you are not honestly
in love with her, but you are very young, and
cannot yet be certain of yourself. Clara is
still younger, and is still less likely to be certain
of her own wishes. You must go out
and see the world of young women, which
includes a great many charming young people,
and Clara must see the world of young men,
which includes many eligible partners. I
shall not dream of permitting an engagement
between you.' And seeing that I clouded
very much at this, and was indeed for the
moment altogether heart-broken and desolate,
she bent forward a little, and laying a pretty
gloved hand upon my arm, she said kindly,
'You must not take this too much to ^ heart.
I am too worldly-wise a mother, Mr. Den-ham,
to allow myself to seem cruel to my
daughter. It will all, no doubt, depend very
much upon yourself. I tell you, quite candidly,
that I like you. You have modesty,
candour, ambition, and good sense. I think
you may make a good man, my dear. If you

do well In the world, and are of the same
mind in three or four years' time, and If Clara
Is of the same mind In three or four years'
time, you and I may have another talk which
may come to an end with another answer.'

The threatened delay looked heart-breaking,
but I answered that If the matter depended
upon myself I knew very well what
would happen, and she smiled again, rising
to go.

We have had our talk,' she said, as we
walked side by side, ' and we understand
each other.'

I asked if I might be allowed to see Clara,
and she answered, ' Certainly.'

But,' she added, ' it will be best that you
should not see too much of each other.' She
added, seeing that I was newly downcast,
Now, come, Mr. Denham, let us be sensible
people. Suppose you see Clara now and tell
her what I have said, and anything in your
own behalf you please.' Her voice was
laughing here, as if she could guess pretty

fairly what that anything else would be.
'And suppose you say good-bye for three
months. You will admit that if your affection
cannot endure a three months' absence,
it is a great deal less robust than you fancy
it. Suppose you agree to meet not oftener
than once in three months, after that, until
you have begun to do something which will
really confirm my good opinion of you. Suppose
that, if that time should come, we enter
on a new arrangement. Come, now, that
ought to stimulate you to effort, and if you
two young people are really and seriously
attached to each other, the best thing for
both of you will be that you shall get to work
in earnest.'

I admit that it all sounds reasonable and
kindly now, but it was different then, and, not
to put it too strongly, was like the reading
of a warrant of despair. We walked back
together, Mrs. Grantley and I, and Clara and
Miss Delamere arriving shortly after us, we
sat down to tea. I tried to behave rationally

and bravely, but in spite of my best efforts,
my manner depressed Clara. After tea we
were left alone together. I told her ever)'-
things, and we sat hand in hand and cried a
little, like the foolish tender-hearted children
that we were, and dried one another's eyes,
and vowed never and never and never to
forget or change. I have sometimes been
happy since that heart-broken evening, I may
have been actually happier once or twice, but
not oftener. I find Mrs. Denham of the
same opinion when I consult her memories,
and whether in the course of time this will
enable us to be worldly-wise with our own
children I cannot guess. I only know that
if that blessed evening were to be counted
sorrowful, I would ask nothing better than
to be sorrowful all my days. We were parting
for three months. Dim were the depths
of that great gulf of time ; far and far away
through the mist of tears we saw firm land
again beyond it, the land of promise, shining
in a misty brightness. But, in the meantime,

VOL. II c

we sat side by side, hand clasping hand, and
our arms about each other, and I told her
how dearly I loved her ; and she, in the
sweet pain of that parting, banished all shyness
and told me how dearly she loved me ;
and Heaven knows that if any foolish pair
of people on whom the sun shone that day
were happy whilst thinking themselves heartbroken,
we were they.

I TOOK a precipitate determination to start at
once for Paris, and there to set on foot my
researches for the second part of that volume
which was to shake the pillars of social
order in the two great centres of civilisation.
Since further meetings with Clara were for
the time being forbidden me, I felt as if I
could not bear to be near her. The barrier
of distance seemed essential to even a bearable
miser'. Of course I was no sooner
denied the house than I began to desire to
go there with greater frequency than ever.
So lone as I had been free to call I had contented
myself with visits of a ridiculous frequency,
and now my thought tended in that
direction every waking moment, and my

feet led me thither every evening of the
week.

Perhaps if Pole had been in town I might
have confided my sorrows and hopes to the
ear of friendship. As it was I had no confidant,
and managed somehow to consume
my own smoke in a fairly successful manner.
But I used to wander up and down outside
the house in the darkness watching the
shadows on the windows, and the light in
the chamber which I knew to be hers,
making vows and protestations and verses
generally enjoying myself profoundly
with a rooted conviction that I was the unhappiest
dog alive.

It was evident that all this had to come
to an end, and so I determined straightway
upon the commencement of my Parisian
campaign. I went to see my friend the
editor, and found my arrival timed most
fortunately. I learned that there was a
thoroughly experienced person in charge of
the Paris office. Within his own limits this

gentleman was perfectly trustworthy, and in
all matters of routine and technique I was
instructed to rely upon him implicitly. His
colleague, a young fellow of unusual brilliance,
had disappeared under circumstances
not altogether creditable to himself, and since
I was prepared to start at once, I was to be
allowed to fill his place on trial. If my work
proved to be satisfactory I was promised a
permanent engagement. The salary offered
was not large, as salaries go nowadays, but it
trebled my expectations at the time, and I
closed eagerly with the offer. The post
offered me double advantages. The salary
was large enough to permit me, by extreme
modesty of living, to save one half of it, and
my position as a recognised journalist would
immensely facilitate the inquiries I desired to
make. I wrote off at once to Mrs. Grantley,
informing her of this unexpected stroke of
good fortune, and I wrote my good-bye for
the time being to Pole. Then I packed up
my belongings, gave instructions for the re-letting

of my chambers, and started with all
manner of tender regrets and high ambitions
for the French capital.

The cheapest route to Bologna was by
the London boat, and in pursuit of economic
resolutions formed beforehand I embarked
upon it. There was nobody to see me off,
and I felt desolate and exiled before the boat
had left the quay. The bell was ringing,
friends of intending travellers were saying
their last good-byes and hurrying ashore,
handkerchiefs were waving, and final messages
were being shouted from deck to platform,
and back again, as though we were
bound for a voyage to the Antipodes, when
suddenly I recognised a familiar face, and
Mr. Goldsmith, with a black-glazed portmanteau
in his hand, came dashing through
the crowd, stumbled down the gangway and
reached the deck. He had only just set foot
upon the boat when the gangway was slipped
up from behind him. He set down his
portmanteau, mopped his countenance with

a gorgeous silk handkerchief, and gazed
about him with a renewal of that beaming
complacency which had marked him at the
beginning of our acquaintance. He was
magnificently attired in, I think, the check
suit of the largest pattern and divides
colours I had ever, until that hour, beheld.
He wore an embroidered waistcoat, with a
great gold cable across it, which for size and
weight would have served admirably to
attach a horse to his manger ; and he wore
rings outside his gloves, and a pin with a
horseshoe head, a size or two smaller than
the original, and set full of brilliant, which,
if they had been real, might have excited the
cupidity of everybody on board. I believe
that if fashion had only afforded him the
least warranty for it, he would have gone
about with a jewelled ring in his nose, like
some imaginable Croesus of a porker.

He did not observe me for some time,
and I had time to observe one proceeding of
his which interested me more than a little.

He had three or four rings outside his
gloves already, and when once the boat had
started he retired to a position where he
fancied himself safe from Intruding glances,
and there drew forth from his purse a little
tissue-paper packet containing half a dozen
others. These he put on with an admirable
slyness, and having demurely admired them,
turned round and swaggered across the
deck, coaxing his black little moustache, and
adjusting that monumental horseshoe pin for
their display.

At first I was not sorry to be unobserved
by him, for I felt somehow as If his splendours
were likely to be reflected upon anybody
whose acquaintance he might claim,
and fancied I might find that glory a thought
too obtrusive to be easily endured. In a
while, however, I began to feel ashamed of
this sentiment, and purposely put myself ina
position in which he might see me If he
chose to do so. He very soon remarked
me, and as I chanced to be looking In his

direction at that moment, I got something of
a start. He positively jumped when he saw
me, and his face, which had worn its very
brightest and most self-approving smile until
that moment, suddenly clouded over. A
moment later he came up to me with a
forced manner and accosted me.

Who'd have thought of seeing you here ? '
he asked in anything but a gracious tone.
I remarked that it was no unusual thing in
travelling to meet a man whom one had met
before. He grunted a sort of unamiable
assent to this, and asked where I was going.
To Paris, I told him. He looked at me, as
I fancied, with some suspicion, and moved
away rather abruptly.

It happens often enough, in the course of
everybody's experience, that after-events set
so clear a light upon trifles that wee suppose
ourselves to have observed them keenly at
the time of their occurrence. It is quite
probable that, if I had had no particular
cause for recalling Goldsmith's suspicious

glance, I should never have given it a
second thought. And now, after the lapse
of more than twenty years, I can see the fat
little man peering shrewdly at me as clearly
as if he were before me at this instant.
What the deuce are you going to Paris
for ? ' said the beady eye, as plainly as if the
question had been asked in words. Some
foolish notion of Goldsmith's myrmidons
having watched me, and of his suspecting
me of watching him in return, assailed my
mind, demanding only to be laughed at and
dismissed. We sat next to each other at
table at dinner-time, and since there was no
other English-speaking person within conversational
distance of him he talked to me.
He drank champagne at the meal, and took
a good deal of it, so that before we left the
table he was a little flushed and inclined to
be amiably merry. He was going, he said,
speaking more through his nose than usual,
to have a bit of fun in Paris. He was going
to do a bit of business too, he told me, winking

one beady eye after the other with an
ineffable knowingness. He had a cent in
Paris, so he said, and he put a certain air of
arrogance into this statement as if the fact
entitled him to uncommon consideration.

She's a lady, my boy,' he said, slapping
me boisterously on the shoulder. ' Wot of
these days she'll occupy wot of the highest
social positions. She'll bake a noise id the
world too. You see if she don't. Bark bywords,'
he continued, poking me in the ribs
with friendly familiarity, ' that woad will
bake a noise id the world.'

I said I hoped his expectations would be
gratified.

Do you ? ' he demanded. ' Now do you
really, Bister Dedhab ? Upon by word,
that's ver)^ kite of you. I'm very much
obliged to you, I am, upon my living word
of honour.'

I attributed the fervour of his gratitude
for this not too-effusive expression of goodwill
chiefly to the champagne he had taken ;

but the exciting effect of the wine did not
remain long upon him, and five minutes
later, after having strutted up and down the
deck smoking a cigar, he came back to me
with a complete sobriety of demeanour.

I've been down to Kensal Green,' he
said, 'within the last day or two, and I've
seen the monument Pole has put up to his
wife. To tell you the truth, I didn't expect
he'd do as little as that for her. She was an
awful trouble to him, I've no doubt, and I
dare say he's pretty glad to have seen the last
of her.'

I did not care to enter into a discussion
upon Pole's feelings with Mr. Goldsmith, and
therefore kept silence.

'I dare say,' he went on, 'he's told you
a lot about her, and there's no mistake
about her having been a tartar. I wasn't
tied to her in any way, but bless your heart
alive, she used to make my life a burden
to me.'

Still I said nothing, but Mr. Goldsmith

having once made conversational overtures
Alas not to be silenced by silence.

I saw by this morning's papers," he continued,
' that old Lord Worborough's very ill
again. I suppose the old boy is on his last
legs, or pretty nearly. Bister Pole *11 tumble
id to a good thing when his lordship goes off
the hooks. He'll be getting married again.
I shouldn't wonder, after a time. I think
he's had his eye on a suitable party for sometime
past, down Cromwell Terrace way.'

Mr. Goldsmith,' I rejoined, ' I am ver'
much delighted by your society, and ver)-
proud of it. But I would rather lose it
altogether than continue the discussion of
this theme.'

Oh, that's all right,' responded Mr.
Goldsmith. ' I never object to a man being
a bit close about his friend's affairs or his
own. I'm pretty close myself, when I want
to be. I'm ready to supply anybody with
the small change of conversation to any
amount, but if I'm asked for the fiver of fact

I watt five quid id exchange for it, money
down. Only, you know, I happen to have
had instructions to keep an eye on Mr.
Pole's proceedings. His wife was very
jealous, poor thing, and I think between
ourselves, Mr. Denham, she had a little bit
of reason for it.'

I think, Mr. Goldsmith,' I answered,
rather coldly, * that I know Mr. Pole somewhat
better than yourself. I can tell you
at least that there never was the slightest
reason for it.'

I was half sorry a moment later to have
taken the trouble to make this disclaimer in
my friend's behalf. It was certainly little
worth while to defend Pole to a man like
Goldsmith. It might have been worth
while, perhaps, whilst that sorrowful wife of
Pole's was still alive, and Pole and Goldsmith
were compelled to hold some sort of
communion with each other. Now, I knew
very well that Pole cared as little to have
his honour vindicated here as he would have

cared to have his height and weight proclaimed
in the interior of China.

Oh ! ' said Goldsmith, ' you're a bit of an
innocent, my boy. Excuse me for saying so,
but that's the fact. I don't suppose that Mr.
Pole meant mischief '

Now, Mr. Goldsmith,' I broke in, very
decidedly, ' I have already asked you not to
talk to me about this matter. There is more
water here than was near us on a certain
memorable occasion when you introduced
this topic about this time last year.'

'Oh,' said Goldsmith, 'if you're going to
talk like that I've got nothing to add to the
observations I've made already. Ill tell you
what — I'll toss you for a brandy and soda.
I'll toss you for a covered. Come now! I
always lose when I challenge a man, and so
there's a bit of a chance for you.'

How could a student of human nature
be continuously wroth with Mr. Goldsmith ?
I never paused to analyse his charm, but
sooner or later it asserted itself in almost all

our interviews. The fact that I detested
brandy and soda, and the other fact that I
could not afford to toss for sovereigns with
Mr. Goldsmith, debarred me perhaps from
the full enjoyment of his society. But even
as things were, I was more than contented
with him. One paid a certain toll, to be
sure, and I was ashamed of being ashamed
to be seen with him. There is no perfect
pleasure in this world.

Pole would have silenced the little man
in a minute, but there was no terror in my
threats, and but little force for him in my
refusal to talk about the topic on which his
heart was obviously set. The only thing I
could do was to refrain from answering him.
Now and again I checked him, but I only
drove him for a moment to a divergence
from the route, and if he went out on one
side he came in on the other like a conversational
harlequin. He hastened me to
my cabin by an hour or so, and in the bustle
of landing in the morning I saw but little

of him. He went on to Paris by first class,
and I, for economy's sake, travelling second,
we met only at the Gare du Nord whilst our
baggage was under examination. He had
some little difficulty with one of the examiners,
and called upon me to interpret for
him.

I've been over here time and again,' he
remarked, ' but I never took the trouble topick
up the parly-voo lingo. Stupid lot these
Frenchmen are. Think of a crowd of grownup
chaps like these not knowing how to speak
Iglish ! I get on very well among em.
Whenever I want to buy anything I put
down less than the thing would cost in Glad,
and potter out the coppers till they've got
enough. Sometimes they get tired of asking
for more. I come through it pretty well.
They can see I'm a foreigner, and they take
pity on me because I'm yug and innocent.'

He accompanied and followed this statement
with a meteoric shower of winks, and
his bag having by this time received its

VOL. II D

cabalistic chalk mark, he bade me good-bye
and disappeared. I drove to a little hotel
I knew in the Rue Richelieu, and having
bargained there iox pension at eight francs per
diem, took up my quarters in a lofty garret.
I saw my luggage safely bestowed, dined,
and walked towards the Boulevard.

How intimately I recall the night, and my
own sensations as I wandered up and down !
How alone I felt, how tender, how valiant,
how resolved ! What flashes of enthusiasm
assailed my spirit every here and there ! I
touched, in passing, or seemed to touch, the
spirits of great men who had trodden these
pavements long ago, and of others who were
alive and familiar with them at that hour.
I sent out my whole heart to the girl I left
behind me, with so much warmth and sincerity
that I thought my feeling needs must
reach her, and its voice find an echo in her
mind.

And so to bed, as Pepys says, to feel
the whole great city palpitating round mea

mystery to be known, a problem to be
solved, a fortress to be stormed. One of
my last unmixed joys in London had been
to accompany Clara to the English opera at
Covent Garden. Sims Reeves had sung that
night in Macfarren's Robin Hood, and almost
the last thing in my mind on that first night
in Paris was the memory of the rejoicing
lines and the triumphant voice —

I know that love will lead me right,
With such a prize in view,
And happy omens bless my sight,
That must, that shall, be true.'

Ay me ! I had a vague and general notion
through it all that my lot was not a happy
one, and it seemed that I had to face the
future with a bold heart to dare to look at
it at all. I am (I own it with a humble
heart, knowing my own poor deserts better
than my most censorious neighbours) blessed
beyond the average of men, yet if I could I
would go back to those happy, happy, troubled
times, and never ask to leave them.

I HAD been about two months in Paris,
burrowing into all manner of odd corners,
and picking up all manner of strange acquaintances,
when I received a letter from
Clara. It came in a fat and bulky envelope,
and consisted of no fewer than ten sheets of
foreign letter paper, which were covered on
both sides. In some wonderment at the
voluminous nature of this epistle I locked
myself in and sat down to read it.

My dear John,' it ran, ' Mr. Delamere
was making a great preachment here the
other night to mamma and Mary and myself
about the rights of insurrection, and the only
part I remember of it was that he laid it

down as an indisputable proposition that
anybody who rebelled without succeeding
was wicked, and that anybody who rebelled
successfully was worthy of all admiration. I
took this lesson upstairs with me, and laid
it to heart. I counted the chances, and then
I rebelled. The rebellion has succeeded
completely, and now, if you please, I claim to
be worthy of your admiration.

I had long been wishing to write to you,
and mamma was very strongly against it.
If ever I come to be a charming old lady
and have a headstrong girl to manage, I
dare say I shall come round to mamma's
present opinions. But being myself the
headstrong girl at present, and having to
manage the charming old lady, I retain
my own. She really is the most charming
old lady in the world, and I tell you
so with perfect frankness, because she has
made it a condition of her surrender that
she shall read whatever I write before it
is posted. Mamma has been spoiled by

flattery all her life, but is still open to its
influences.

I suppose that you will begin to get
melancholy about it if I tell you that I amin
the highest possible spirits ; but as a
matter of fact I am. We have been playing
and witnessing the loveliest high comedy
here ever since your departure. Mr. Jones,
to use your friend's delightful expression,
has been Sebastian Dolmering about the
house in the most artistically inspired manner
ever since you saw the last of it. We know
now that he made a formal proposition to
Mr. Delamere for the hand of his daughter.
How stately that sounds, to be sure ! Mr.
Delamere appears to have given the word of
command for the siege of the citadel, and
Mr. Jones has been sitting down before it
ever since. Mary used to have a much loftier
opinion of Mr. Delamere's godson than I
have ever found myself able to rise to. My
wings always refused to carry me on that
flight, though I really did at one time flap

them quite industriously. But since the
high-road of good opinion seemed Hkely toland
Mary in the quagmire of matrimony,
she does not travel on it any longer. I am
told that it is a dreadfully unladylike word
to use, but I will write it in letters as small
as my quill can make, and you may take it
for a kind of shocked whisper. I am very
much of opinion that Mr. Jones is a humbug.
I have been burning for months to say this
to somebody, and now that I have it off my
mind my spirits are higher than ever.

At first I was dreadfully anxious when I
heard of this terrible proposal, and for a
whole day or two I was left to wonder what
would happen. By and by I began to observe
that the suitor was less exalted and
confident than he had seemed at first, and I
was sensible enough to put a sound construction
upon this phenomenon. How does a
phenomenon look when you put a sound
construction on it ? It sounds as if it would
be funny, like one of Doyle's grotesque fairy-pictures.

The elder Delamere seemed to take
the thing almost as much to heart as the
younger one, and the pair were deliciously
gloomy and stately for a time. You would
have thought that papa was suffering from
the same pangs of blighted affection as afflicted
Sebastian, and they both bore their sorrow
with such a braggadocio meekness, and so
wore their hearts upon their sleeves, that no
daw with a touch of human nature in her
could have kept herself from pecking at them.
I am afraid that I have been a great trouble
to Mr. Delamere and his candidate. I am
almost afraid that at times I have really
meant to be, but they have been altogether
too inviting to be resisted.

Of course Mr. Delamere's suffering silence
did not endure long. He talks so beautifully
that he really can't help talking, and I think
it a bit of a pity that he is so excellent a
conversationalist. If he had not been able
to talk so nicely about everything he might
have seen his way to doing something. When

once the ice was broken the fountain ran
for days, and everybody in the house was
drenched with the noblest maxims. Mamma
in particular was so wet through with them
that I could not touch her without squeezing
two or three to the surface. His favourite
theme was the Growth of Self-will in the
Young and the Falling Off of Reverence for
the Parental Ideal. I am writing about it
now as if it had been pure fun for everybody
all along, but I assure you that it was nothing
of the kind at the time. It is only in the
contemplation of it now that the trouble is allover
that one can see the comic side of it.
I was so sorry for Mary, and so angry at that
pitiless shower of words, that I sometimes
found it hard to be merely civil to Mr. Delamere.
The worst of it is — or perhaps it is
the best of it — Mary believes in her father to
such an extent that it would be quite cruel
to try to lessen her opinion of him. Your
friend Mr. Pole is very funny and amusing
sometimes. We met him last niorht at the

Revels', and he was describing somebody
whom I do not know. He said that this
gentleman, to his wife's mind, was such a
very large potato that it would break her
heart to see him pared. But for this lady's
affection it appears that some friend of Mr.
Pole's was quite prepared to pare the potato,
and, judging from what he said, to reduce its
dimensions very considerably. It brought
Mr. Delamere and Mary irresistibly to my
mind. I do seriously believe that if it were
possible to peel all the pretence off that gentleman
he would make a rival to Tom Thumb.
But now I must tell you what has really
happened. I am so glad of my liberty that
I have been compelled to race round in these
preliminary circles before sitting down to
steady narrative, like a dog just unchained,
or a pigeon starting for home, which, when
1 come to think of it, is a prettier and more
ladylike simile. Mr. Jones had actually and
formally proposed, and Mary had definitely
and formally declined to accept him. Mr.

Delamere, after the first frozen days of silence,
had poured on us that deluge of eloquence of
which I have already told you. But I have
not told you that he had a second or alternative
theme which dealt with The Crime of
Concealment in Social Affairs. You remember
something of this, but it was repeated as
if its variety were as infinite as Cleopatra's,
and it could neither be staled by age nor
withered by custom. The text of it was, of
course, afforded by your friend Mr. Pole,
and I heard him preached against so often
that I ended by taking a liking to him.

And now comes the fun of the whole
position. Mr. Pole stayed in the country
with Lord Worborough for quite six weeks
after your departure. Then he and his lordship,
who is quite recovered, came up to
town together, and ]mr. Pole made a call at
Cromwell Terrace. All this time Mary had
been pumped on by the paternal pump until
she could scarcely have had a dry moral
thread to call her own, and she was getting

quite depressed and thin under this hydropathic
treatment.

I think Mr. Pole has very decidedly improved
in appearance. He does not look so
stern and stony as he used to do. He is
rather grave and quiet, but I am sure that
he has a great deal more humour than he
shows, for I have seen his eye twinkle very
often when Mr. Delamere has been talking ;
and I have been conscious that if anybody
had caught me at the same moment they
might have seen the same signs. He stayed
only an hour at his first call, and on the
following day he came again, bringing his
lordship with him. You did not at all exaggerate
when you told me what a dear old
gentleman he is. I never rhet a lord before,
to speak to, though I have looked at a whole
menagerie of them through the gilded railings
at Westminster, and I was a little afraid of
him at first. He is old-fashioned and stately,
but there is such a beautiful courtesy in
everything he says and does that I think

him perfectly lovable. He is just what an
old nobleman ought to be, and all our hearts
went down before him like so many ninepins.

Mr. Jones, of course, is always about
the house, and he and Mr. Delamere did
most of the talking. His lordship seemed
extremely pleased and interested by them,
and you know that when you do not get too
much of them they can both be very clever
and amusing.

'We were treated that night to a new
lecture, and it was such an unmixed blessing
to get a change from the old ones that we all
welcomed it with enthusiasm. At times it
was really beautiful and affecting, and it was
all about the Moral Advantages of the Territorial
Sentiment. On the very next day his
lordship called alone, and was closeted with
Mr. Delamere. Mamma and I were out at
the time, and I only heard of this afterwards,
but when I got home I met Mary, and I
was quite certain at once that something had
happened. I don't think I ever saw anybody

looking so beautiful as she did. You know
what very fine and speaking eyes she has.
They were all sparkling and gentle at the
same time, and when I had coaxed her a
little she told me that Lord Worborough had
spoken to Mr. Delamere about a marriage
between her and Mr. Pole. It was like the
dear, stately old gentleman to come himself
and to show that he approved of the match,
for, of course, the future Lord Worborough
will be very much above Miss Delamere in
wealth and social station, though, after all, a
lady can only be a lady, and Mary would
have been an empress by now if emperors
were sensible people.

There are some things about which it
doesn't seem the least use in the world to
try to say anything. If I were trying to tell
a stranger what happened next I should fall
into pure despair. I know that I shouldn't
succeed in conveying a shadow of the truth.
But you are not a stranger, and I think that
you have a little imagination. Pray let it

loose, and try to picture to yourself Mr.
Delamere that evening struggling in Mr.
Jones's presence with the rudiments of a
new discourse on " The Blending of the
Artistic and Territorial Ideals." Poor Mr.
Jones was very mournful under this, and
though I could not help feeling that he has
made us all suffer very much by his perseverance,
I was sorry for him when his ally
deserted him. He still comes to the house,
and Mr. Delamere and he are a great deal
together ; but Mr. Pole calls every day, and
the poor thing must certainly be excessively
uncomfortable. He does not seem to have
the strength of mind to go away. I wish he
would, for as it is I cannot help being a little
unhappy about him at times. He dashes
those high spirits I told you of, although I
must confess that his airs of martyrdom are
sometimes a little trying. What makes me
pity him most is the altogether heartless way
in which Mr. Delamere has turned upon
him. Only last night wee had a new discourse

on The Philosophical Acceptance of the
Inevitable, which was so cruel and at the
same time so funny that I really wonder how
I lived through it and kept my countenance.
I had to look hard at the table all the while,
and I said to myself again and again that it
would be most shameful to wound Mary by
laughing. I succeeded in sitting through it,
but I was quite hysterical in my own room
afterwards.

So now you see that, with the exception
of poor Mr. Jones, everybody is happy. Mr.
Delamere makes a pretence of coolness about
the match, which sometimes throws a little
shadow over Mary's spirits ; but I can see
clearly that he only does this to let himself
down easily. There is no talk about an
immediate marriage, and I suppose everybody
feels that such a suggestion would
seem a little indelicate in view of what has
happened.

And now, since I have rebelled in your
behalf and my own, you must answer this,

and tell me all about yourself and your
doings. I have never seen Paris, but I have
read a prodigious deal about it within the
last two months. I cannot imagine what it
is that has made me take so sudden an
interest in the French capital. Perhaps you
can. I have told mamma that it is all nonsense
to talk or think of my changing, and
beyond that I am not going to say anything,

except that I am,

Yours,

Clara.'

This epistle delighted me on many grounds,
selfish and unselfish. A week later I got a
letter from Pole, who I suppose had been too
busy in his new-found hopes of happiness to
write before. I wrote back, congratulating
him with all my heart, and now that a means
of communication between Clara and myself
had been opened up, and the one creature in
the world I loved best after her was going
to be happy, everything seemed bright again.

Smiling seas and a steady breeze abeam,

VOL. II E

and gay skies and banners flying in the wind,
and the gladdest music aboard, and ' Land
ho ! ' and the sweetest bay of the land of
promise reaching forth its green arms in
welcome. Then a crash, and the sunken
rock that no man dreamed of has rent us
from stem to stern.

My commanding officer and colleague was
Mr. Alexander Macllray. Our office was
up four pairs of stairs in the Rue de la Paix.
It has very pronounced blossomed out since
then, and nowadays its gilded signboard is
visible from half-way down the Boulevard
des Capucines ; but at that time we were
humble, and even a little Bohemian in our
ways and aspect. Journalism has grown of
late years into a recognised profession. One
feels, in setting that statement upon paper,
guilty of an actual banality ; and yet, as I
remember the business a quarter of a century
back, it was very little of a recognised profession
at all, and a vast number of its
followers were harum-scarum, clever, sociable,

■»

lovable, and good-for-nothing people, who
dressed as it pleased them, drank habitually
more than was good for them, kept the
insane hours, and generally conducted
themselves as though they knew they were
outside the claims and privileges of ordinary
society. I am of a staid and sober turn of
mind, and never cared greatly for the wilder
sort of revelry ; but I look back with an
affectionate regret to some of the old times
and scenes and many of the lost faces. I
dare say I am getting to be an old fogey ; but
I look round in vain amongst the beloved,
tall-hatted, frock-coated contingent of to-day
for the merriment, the jollity, the good-fellowship,
the open-mindedness, which went
along with the ramshackle life, the billycock
hat, and the smoke-scented jacket.

There never was a personage in this world
less Bohemian than Mr. Alexander Macllray.
He was a particularly respectable Scot, who
dressed uniformly in black, and whose gloves
and linen were always perfectly clean and

orderly. He seemed never to go anywhere
unless called thither by affairs, and he lived
without friends or acquaintances outside his
business. He was by no means an ungenial
little man, but he was always occupied, out
of the hours of actual work, in 'getting his
tools together,' as he phrased it.

The business of a journalist, Mr. Denham,
is to know everything that is to be known.
Universal knowledge is perhaps impossible,
is, in fact, impossible, for the individual, but
the mere truth that a then is impossible has
no right to debar a man from attempting it.
Get your tools in order, Mr. Denham. Know
everything that ye can lay your mental hand
upon.'

He broke out on me with this before I had
known him for a week, and repeated it constantly
with unction, and sometimes with a
startling air of originality, as if the thought
had just occurred to him and he was in haste
to express it before it vanished. He had an
odd way of expressing sympathy and a sense

of companionship. Sometimes when we had
been sitting silent for an hour or more, each
engaged in his own task, he would push his
work aside, and gazing at me in a friendly
fashion through his gold-rimmed glasses,
would smooth his red hair with both hands
and say, * Ay, ay, Mr. Denham ! Ay, ay,
lad ! Ay, ay ! ' in a tone of cheerful certainty
and conviction. Then he would turn-to
again at his task of getting his tools together.
I suppose he got too many tools together,
and so filled his mental workshop that he
had no room to move about in it. He himself
did next to nothing with the paraphernalia
he collected. He used to remind me sometimes
of some imaginable frantically-generous
ironmonger, who kept a prodigious stock of
every sort of implement for every trade
beneath the skies, knew the practical handling
of no one of them, and gave away
his stock all day among the passers-by. I
got to have a superstitious belief in Mr.
Macllray's omniscience. He was a walking

encyclopaedia. I puzzled myself with problems
for his puzzlement, and never caught
him. People who have not met this sort of
man hardly know how to believe in him.
One would have thought that nothing less
than a lifetime would have served a man to
learn Paris, for instance, as Macllray knew it.
When I first came to this cette I med up
my mind that it was my duty to know it. So
I just set myself down in the meddle of it, and
observed. Then, sir, in a while I began to
radiate. Now, as a matter of fact and experience,
it's not that easy to radiate as ye
might fancy. Ye want a heap of preliminary
I'm thinking that if a man
began his dinner with his cheese, and worked
back his way to the soup, he'd find his digestive
organs getting out of order in a while.
There's a way of absorbing a cette or a subject
just as there's a way of absorbing your
dinner, and ef you take the wrong ye're like
to find yourself bothered by a perpetual
indigestion.'

In spite of this admirable exordium I
found when I came to try him that he had
formulated no scheme at all for the absorption
of subject or city. He used to stand in that
overcrowded warehouse of his, and survey his
tools with a constant satisfaction, and used to
lay down philosophical theories beyond counting
for the increase of his armoury, and at
first I used to wait for the announcement of
some great task, some Herculean feat of
letters or of learning to which he had set
himself single-handed. The revelation never
came.

He was a simple-minded little man, in
spite of all his learning, and he had a boyish
enthusiasm of admiration for faculties which
lay outside his own range. He could flow
out, measureless, upon paper, not in a stream
which went anywhere, but in a sort of bog of
mingled thought and fact over which no man
could travel dryshod. But to get the gist of
a thing inside the journalistic nutshell was
altogether impossible for him, and since I was

not long in perceiving the necessity of the
trick, and speedily acquired the knack itself,
he used to admire me in a way so candid
and open that I blushed before him.

Ay, lad ! ' he would say, ' ye have but to
get your tools together, and ye'll make a
workman.' Then he would go to his own
labours, or dive into the packed intricacies of
his inward storehouse, and would emerge an
hour later with a cheerful ' Ay, ay, Mr. Den-ham
! Ay, ay, lad ! Ay, ay ! ' as if I had
said something to elicit his most cordial
sympathies.

He worked up four pairs of stairs in the
Rue de la Paix, and he lived up six pairs of
stairs in an eminently respectable boardinghouse
in the Boulevard Haussmann. As I
got to be more and more intimate with him
he took very kindly to me, but it was a week
or two after the reception of Clara's letter
that I paid my first visit to his quarters. I
had begun to think that we should never
come to an end of the stairs when he paused

upon the sixth landing and threw open the
door which led to a tolerably spacious and
very orderly apartment. His bed was snugly
tucked away in one corner, and surrounded
by a screen, and a great bookcase filled the
opposite wall from floor to ceiling. There
was not one volume of mere entertainment
on its shelves, but there were grammars and
dictionaries, atlases and gazetteers, dictionaries
of biographies and dates, huge bound
folios of the Entj^'acte, cobwebbed all over
with shorthand criticisms of performances,
volumes of history by the hundred, works on
chemistry, metallurgy, conchology, and on the
lower shelves a battalion of encyclopaedias.

Here are the tools for a journalist, Mr.
Denham,' he said, with a subdued pride, ashe
saw me examining his books. ' Get the
contents of those pages well into your mind,
and there is no department of human effort
into the consideration whereof ye will not be
prepared to enter.'

I suggested that the tools were there, and

that it might suffice to take them down as
they were wanted, but this seemed positively
to shock Macllray.

Nenni, lad ! ' he exclaimed warmly.
There's nothing that a man can call his own
in this wide world but that which is packed
away in the head and the soul of him. Carry
your weapons about with ye, and then no
man can catch y 'unarmed at any moment.'

I persisted in thinking that if a man would
carry about with him arms enough for fifty
people he might find himself embarrassed in a
chance conflict which came suddenly upon him,
but if my theories had been very koh-i-noors of
practice it was too late to present them to
Macllray. I liked the simple-hearted, prim-spoken
little book-worm very warmly, and he
returned my liking. So we got on admirably
together, and not infrequently I spent my
evenings in his room. He gave me to understand,
in a very friendly way, that I was to
regard my first introduction there as a standing
invitation.

The place, such as it is, Mr. Denham, is
open to ye. Within its compass I can say
for it that ye'll find no more useful mass o'
knowledge than ye see collected here. Ef
ever ye're passing this way with an hour to
spare and ye want to refresh your mind ye'll
just walk upstairs as ef the place belonged to
ye, whether I'm en or out. I'll give word to
the concierge below stairs to that effect.'

I accepted his cordial invitation, and ina
little while the house on the Boulevard
Haussmann knew me almost as well as if I
were an inmate.

The day before which I was forbidden by
maternal authority to visit Clara came slowly
nearer and more near. The nearer it grew,
the more the hours lagged to my impatient
fancy, but at last I stood within four-and-twenty
hours of starting. I had secured a
two-days' holiday, and in the afternoon —
I remember that it was a Saturday, and a
day of exceptional slackness — I visited Mr.
Macllray to talk over with him one or two

matters which would have to be attended to
in my absence, for which no definite arrangements
had been made. We talked things
over, and then fell into some friendly discussion,
so that I lingered for an hour or two.

We were still in the full flush and glory of
the summer, but the staircases of the house
were dark in places, where the illumination
which struck through certain gloomy little
skylights and portholes could not reach. I
was half-way down when I heard the silken
rustle of a dress below me, and made myself
small to let the wearer pass. She was in
shadow, and a narrow stream of light, with
the motes dancing thickly in it, played across
the dimness and half obliterated all objects
which lay beyond it. I stood in a corner,
and waited for a second or two whilst the
wearer of the silken dress came at a very
leisurely pace step by step along the stairs,
until all on a sudden, with such a shock as
seemed to stop my heart, I saw the face of
that dead wife of Pole's spring into the radiance

shot across the staircase by the sinking
sun. The proud, hard, disdainful eyes blinked
in the sudden light, and the woman, seeing
an instant later that some one stood by to
make room for her, gave me a scornful, undiscerning
glance from head to foot and went
slowly by.

If I had not been supported by the wall I
should have fallen in the horror of my amazement.
I heard the silken rude and the
deliberate footstep pace the corridor above,
and I heard the click of the handle of a door,
and then the door itself slammed noisily. I
do not know how, by any art of words, to
convey to the understanding of another the
sensations which assailed me. I think that
amongst the chief of them was a swift and
terrible certainty that nothing in the world
was real, and that I was somehow sunk in
the middle of an eternal emptiness of space.

When the first shock was over, I found
that I was shaking from head to foot, and
that my face and hands were moist. My

head was whirling so that the stairs were a
kind of terror to me. I climbed to the landing,
and stood there awhile, striving to collect
myself, and then, rather by instinct, as I
thought afterwards, than because of any
definite purpose in my mind, I went back to
Macllray's room. The sound of my own
knuckles as I tapped at the door, and the
brusque imperativeness of his 'Entrez' in
reply, did something to dissipate the still
lingering sense of the general unreality of
things. Macllray told me afterwards that he
had never in his life seen a face on which the
expression of pure horror was fixed so vividly.
I can well believe that, in the memory of the
reflection of my own expression which I saw
in his. He darted at me, and threw one arm
about me.

For all sakes, man,' he demanded, ' what's
the matter ? Where is it ? Are you hurt ? '

He moved me to a chair, and kneeling
down beside me passed his hands over me
from head to foot with a rapid, skilful-feeling

touch, like that of a practised surgeon. Then
rising, and keeping a backward glance upon
me, he went swiftly to a cupboard, and producing
from it a bottle of cognac, poured out
a wineglass full, and returning, held it to my
lips. I drank it eagerly, and the spirit
burned like fire and set me coughing. It
steadied my nerves, however, and set my
heart at work again with a more healthful
action.

Denham, my lad,' said Macllray, standing
over me, wineglass in hand, 'ye look as if
we'd seen a ghost.'

I have,' I answered.

He stared at me in pure amazement.

I'm a believer in many things,' he responded,
'but I'm no believer in ghosts, until
I can trap one for myself, and submit him to
a chemical analysis. Just think it out, lad.
What is it that's scared ye } '

I made a great effort and succeeded in
pulling myself together.

1 saw,' I answered, ' a minute ago, on

the stairs outside, a woman over whose grave
I stood more than three months back. I had
the certificate of that woman's death in my
hands. I saw the tombstone erected on her
grave. I myself gave the necessary orders
for it, and saw them carried out.'

You're talking naturally enough,' said
Macllray, looking at me with a shrewd inquiry.
' Are ye sure there's nothing ? '

He tapped his forehead, ' Eh ? '

'If.' I answered, ' I am not mad, or if —
and I know better — I have not been the
victim of some wild hallucination, I have
seen that woman. If she is an inmate of
this house you cannot fail to have noticed
her.'

Tell me what she's like,' he said.

'Dark,' I answered, 'with level black
eyebrows, and full red lips. She has a
swarthy pallor, and she looks at you as if
she would kill you if she had the power.
It's a haunting face. Xo man who has seen
it once and taken note of it could forget it.

VOL. II F

A cruel, proud, revengeful, self disdainful
face. '

'Ay, man,' he said, nodding at me.
There's such a woman in the house.
Madame Damal she calls herself. She's uncommonly
lively in the temper for a woman
that's been dead and buried.'

Madame Damal ?' I answered confusedly.
Does she speak French ? '

Speak French ?' repeated Macllray. 'It's
likely she would. She's a Frenchwoman
born and bred. It's her native language.
I suspect, my lad, you've just been hit by
some extraordinary likeness. I confess,' he
went on, as if he wished to soothe me, ' that
I would not have thought that there had
been two faces like that in the world. I
thank my stars at least that I never saw
another like it.'

These are no two faces,' I answered obstinately
; 'that woman is alive.'

'Ay, ay,' cried Macllray, half pettishly,
that woman is alive. But the dead one

isn't. I don't like these uncanny fancies,
and I'll just tell ye what we'll do, lad. It's
dinner time in half an hour.' A bell clanged
loudly through the house at this moment.
There's the warning for it. Yell calm
your nerves, and come down with me to
dinner. It happens, to my oft disturbance,
that I sit opposite the lady. Ye'll have a
chance for a good look at her, and ye'll sleep
none the worse for being sure that you've
been mistaken.'

I am half ashamed to say it, but I shrank
from this ordeal with an actual terror. I
fought it down, however, and resolved that
I would go through with it. Macllray fell
into a reverie from which he awoke with his
accustomed sonorous watchword of sympathy
and approval. ' Ay, ay, Denham ! Ay, ay,
lad ! ' when the second bell rang.

Ye're all right now, lad ? Ye're not
going to make an exhibition of yourselves' he
asked me as we went downstairs together.
I answered that he might rely upon me,

and we entered the dining-room. Macllray,
with a flourish of politeness, introduced me
to the lady of the house. ' M. Denham,
mon college, qui sera un de ces jours un
homme remarquable. ' This gave me something
of a start, but I suspected Macllray a
moment later of a friendly intention to turn
me from the contemplation of the one idea
which filled my mind. He chattered with
more than common fluency to the landlady,
and dragged me neck and heels into the
conversation.

We were amongst the first arrivals at
table. By and by others came in, to the
number of twenty, and we all sat down.
The space opposite Macllray was vacant,
and remained vacant until the fish was
served. Then the woman whom I had seen
upon the stairs came in and took her seat
there. I experienced no new shock, but her
face held me with an urgent fascination, and
I was compelled again and again, in spite of
myself, to peruse every feature of her face

even when I had arrived at a fixed and
rooted certainty. She spoke once or twice
in the voice that I remembered, but with an
accent so finished and natural that it would
have been impossible to any one to whom
the language had not been customary fi-om
infancy. Sometimes the intentness of my
regard drew hers upon me, but she never
gave me once the faintest sign of recognition.
The cruel, self despising, all-despising eyes
looked straight into mine, and were withdrawn
with all their old indifferent hauteur.
Certain as I was of her identity, the perfect
indifference of her manner shook me once or
twice, and even when it made its weakest
impression upon me served to sustain the
tumult of my mind.

The dinner might have lasted a year rather
than an hour; but at length it was over. The
ladies rose and moved away. The men
settled down about the windows and lit their
cigarettes. Macllray and I were left alone,
and he drew me by a gesture to the far end

of the room. Standing there and looking
upwards at a print, with his head critically
on one side, as if he were examining it, he
let fall a single word of question —

Well ? '

That is the woman,' I responded.

Did she ever know you,' Macllray
asked, ' in the days before she died and got
buried ?'

She knew me,' I answered, ' and had
reason to remember me.'

She's a very pretty actress in that case,'
he said.

I had had time to think this extraordinary
matter over, and I had come to my own conclusions.


'That woman,' I said deliberately, laying
a hand upon Macllray's breast and looking
him calmly in the face, ' has entered into a
conspiracy with a little Jew solicitor in London
to spread abroad the false Intelligence
of her own death. In order that her husband,
whom she hates, shall be entrapped into contracting

a marriage with another woman.
She promised in my hearing to make his Hfe
a burden to him, and this is the way in
which she has chosen to make that promise
good.'

I saw a change in his face as I spoke, and
I saw, though I could not tell why, that he
had abandoned his mistrust.

Hold your tongue one moment, man,'
he said. ' Don't speak to me. Let me
think. A little Jew solicitor ? An overdressed
man with white teeth. Ay, ay !
He's been here.'

'His name,' I said, 'was '

'Wait!' cried Macllray. 'His name
was ' — I could see him searching in his own
mind, and the light in his face told me that
he had recalled it before he spoke the word
' Goldsmith.'

'That is the man,' I answered, 'and this
woman is the wife, Heaven help him, of my
dearest friend !'

I REACHED London in the gray of a dismal
morning, and, carrying my portmanteau with
me, made my way on foot through the silent
streets towards Pole's chambers. So far as
I remember to have noted, nothing whatever
in the aspect of the court was changed, and
yet somehow all was changed. A difference
had fallen upon everything, and the place
had that look of unfamiliar familiarity which
is the most damping and disheartening of all
aspects to one who revisits old and well-remembered
scenes.

The court was quiet and deserted, as was
natural at that early hour. The gatekeeper
slumbered in his sentry-box, outside the iron
gate, and I passed through the door which

led to Pole's rooms unnoticed. I could read
through the half gloom of the passage the
white letters in which his name was inscribed
upon the black paint of the door, and I stood
indeterminately, not venturing to disturb the
silence. I had spent a sleepless night and
had been unhappy enough all the journey
through. It was no light or pleasant task
to have laid upon oneself — the task of pulling
one's dearest friend's house of happiness
down about his ears.

I set my portmanteau down stealthily, and
sat down upon it for a time, resolved to wait.
There was no use in disturbing Pole, no need
to hasten the delivery of the dreadful intelligence
I carried. But by and by the singing
silence of the staircase, the creaking noise
the old stairs made under the tread of invisible
feet, and the uneasiness of my own
mind, got the better of me and made my continued
watch there almost an impossibility.
I stole downstairs quietly, like a thief, to
look at the door of mv own old chambers.

An oblong streak of black paint, fresher than
the rest, obliterated my name, and over it
was painted that of W. Whitehouse. I shall
never in the least know why, but I figured
W. Whitehouse as a man in spatterdash
and a light waistcoat. He wore a white hat
with a black band, and looked fast and
rakish. In the absurdest vague way in the
world this visionary Whitehouse seemed to
double the depressing influences which already
rested upon me, and I stole silently
down the court again, and went back into
Holborn. Signs of life were already visible
there, and the few passers-by had such an
interest as one feels for strangers when living
in a village. Everything was comfortless
: the long unbroken perspective of the
streets, the white sky, the smokeless chimneys,
the closed windows of shops, like dead
eyes with weights upon them to keep the
eyelids down. I was in a mood wretched
enough to be fantastic, and weary enough to
be irresponsible in fantasy.

I Stood at a late coffee-stall and drank a
cup of coffee, and then went back to the outside
of Pole's door. I waited there until
I fell into a little dreamy doze, and was
awakened by the laundress, who came clanking
upstairs with a broom and pail. She
stared to see me, and I felt ashamed of being
detected, as if I had been bound on some
foolish or dishonourable enterprise.

'La! Mr. Denham,' said the laundress,
whatever are you a-doing here, sir ? '

I told her I had not cared to disturb Pole
at so early an hour, and was waiting for a
more seasonable time to arrive.

'Mr. Pole, sir,' she said, 'Mr. Pole is
in the country. The gate-porter's got his
address, and sends his letters to him
regular.'

This was a respite, after a fashion, and to
a very slight degree I was unreasonably
lifted by it. The news had none the less to
be told because of it, but the disclosure was
delayed. If it had been anyhow possible to

delay it altogether it would have taken a
dreadful weight from my mind, but that of
course was altogether out of the question. I
determined to quarter myself upon Pole in
his absence ; and the laundress having admitted
me to his rooms I made my toilet
there, and then sat down to think out what
I should do. I thought it out so successfully
that in five minutes I fell fast asleep. It was
high noon when I awoke, cramped from my
strained posture in the arm-chair. My mind
was cleared and strengthened by these few
hours of repose, however; and when I had
ascertained from the gate-keeper who was on
duty for the day that Pole was staying at
Worborough Court, my own way lay quite
plainly before me. I found that there was
no train for the West of England until six
o'clock, and since my only opportunity of
seeing Clara had to be taken before that hour
arrived, I started for Cromwell Terrace.

Apart from my discovery I should have
had nothing but good news and high hope

to carry with me, but that discovery gave its
own miserable colour to everything in my
mind. I made a resolute endeavour to look
bright and cheerful, and determined that I
would express nothing but the most hopeful
sentiments. It would be quite early enough
for Mary Delamere to know that this shadow
had fallen upon her way when I could no
longer hide the knowledge from her. At
present she lived in a happy blindness, and
though she must needs soon be rudely
awakened to the truth, I was glad of every
minute's delay.

It appeared afterwards that Mrs. Grantley,
Mary Delamere, and Clara were together at
the moment when my arrival was announced,
and that Clara was at once for flying to meet
me, but that mamma laid restraining orders
upon her. The elder lady came in alone and
received me, as I fancied, with a rather icy
kindness.

'I hope, Mr. Denham,' she said, 'that
you have not been dissipating in Paris. You

are not looking so well as you were when
you left London.'

I tried to answer this implied accusation
lightly, and feeling that the attempt was a
dismal failure began to look awkward and
probably a little guilty. She shook her head
at me severely, and said she was assured that
I had been keeping abominable hours. I
answered that I had travelled from Paris
without pause, and was a little tired by the
journey. She shook her head once more
with a doubtful aspect, and drew her lips to
an expression which announced plainly that
I was a melancholy example. This was so
bad a beginning that I was spurred to make
amendment for it, and I entered upon an
account of my labours and successes, which
by and by became enthusiastic and carried
some conviction with it. She relaxed a
little, and after a quarter of an hour's talk,
observing, doubtless, my frequent and eager
glances towards the door, she sailed away
and despatched Clara to me.

Clara was not long in remarking that I
was somehow changed and depressed. She,
unlike mamma, was confident that my sustained
and heroic efforts In the cause of love
and letters were answerable for my altered
appearance. I must have been a poor dissembler,
for in spite of all that I could do she
found me out in the first five minutes, and
was convinced that something dreadful had
befallen me.

'You can't deny it, John,' she said, looking
at me with frightened eyes, and holding
one of my hands in both her own. ' Tell
me what it is. You wicked boy ! you have
somehow been getting into trouble.'

That at least I could and did deny with a
clear conscience. I painted my own prospects
in the rosiest tints, and did my painting
with so hang-dog an air that she would
have been less shrewd than I knew her to be
if I had succeeded In deceiving her.

'It is of no use to pretend with me,' she
told me. ' You are the worst actor I ever

saw in my life. There is something on your
mind. I insist either that you shall lay your
hand upon your heart and declare solemnly
that you have nothing in the world to be
annoyed or disturbed about, or that you shall
tell me what it is.'

She said this with an admirable air of
lightness and vivacity, but her eyes were
troubled, and she was very serious beneath
her pretence of comedy. I yielded so far as
to tell her that I had very disturbing intelligence,
though it in no way concerned my
personal affairs.

'In no way?' she demanded. 'If it
doesn't concern you in any way, why should
you be disturbed by it ? '

It concerns me only,' I replied, 'inasmuch
as it must make others whom I value dearly
very unhappy.'

Thereupon I began to feel that it was a
dreadful thing to find myself in the act of
wishing that the news of anybody's death
should be confirmed, or regretting that the

intelligence should be disproved. Yet there
was no disguising it. In all honesty the
news of that wretched woman's death had
brought relief to everybody concerned with
her, and the certainty that the news was false
would be the most dreadful blow that could
possibly be inflicted upon two innocent
people, who had never wished her harm or
tried to wrong her. The common sense of
the position was as clear as daylight, but the
sentiment natural to the circumstances hung
a veil before it.

'You are bound to hear the nev's,' I said
gloomily at last, ' and my only reason for
not telling it now is that I see no good in
forestalling trouble for some one else who
would be sure to hear it from you.'

Who do you mean } ' she asked me.

'Promise me,' I said, 'that you will
keep the news to yourself, and that you
will show no sign of it to anybody in this
house.'

In this house .'^' she repeated. I nodded

VOL. II G

in answer, and she, seizing my arm nervously
with both hands, looked at me for a
second or two In an alarmed perplexity.
'You have bad news for Mary,' she said
then, with eyes suddenly widened with
terror. ' You have heard something about
Mr. Pole. What is the matter with him ? '

'His wife,' I answered, 'is alive. I saw
her the night before last in Paris.'

Clara sprang to her feet with clasped
hands, and a cry of dismay and terror.
Before the words had well left my lips I
had seen the handle of the door turn, and
before I could make a sign to repress the
ejaculation which burst from her lips the
door opened, and the surprised face of
Mary Delamere appeared at the entrance
to the room. Clara heard the opening
door, and turning, made an impetuous movement
towards her friend.

'What is It?' cried Miss Delamere,
advancing swift. Clara and I stood
miserably silent before her, looking helplessly

one at the other. Some sort of explanation
was unescapable.

I am the bearer of strange news,' I said.
Clara was startled by it.'

To say that Clara was startled was but
feebly to describe her condition. She had
grown deathly pale, and so trembled from
head to foot that she could hardly stand.
Mary set an arm about her waist, and led
her to an arm-chair, and there knelt beside
her.

Give me a glass of water, mr. Denham,'
she said quietly. ' There is a carafe on the
sideboard.'

I obeyed her, and Clara sipped the proffered
water and dropped a tear or two into
the tumbler. Then she handed the glass tome
with an appearance of recovering her
composure, and suddenly crowned my misery
by bursting into tears with her arms about
Mary's neck.

I think you had better leave us for a
moment, Mr. Denham,' said Miss Delamere,

looking round upon me with a glance of keen
inquiry.

No ! ' cried Clara. ' You mustn't go
away, John. You must stay here. I was
surprised and shaken at first, but I am better
now.' She composed herself by an obvious
effort and, embracing Mary anew, begged
her to leave the room for a minute or two.
'John,' she said, 'has brought very strange
news indeed, if it should prove to be true.
But it is not yet proved to be true, and I
am not going to distress those who love me
for what may be only a fancy. Go away,
dear, for a little while, and let me find out
whether I really have anything to be afraid
of. You need not look that way at John,
Mary.' She tried to say this with an air of
merriment, which threatened for a moment
to result in hysteria. 'It is no fault of his,
even if the thing is true.'

She threw her arms about Miss Delamere
again, and embraced her almost convulsively.
Then she half led and half pushed

her from the room, and closing the door,
turned towards me with a white but resolute
face.

What do you know ? ' she asked, twining
her fingers hard together. ' Tell me what
you know.'

I told her in as few words as I could find
of my visit to Macllray, my encounter with
Mrs. Pole upon the staircase, and of her
manner at the dinner-table. She was deeply
impressed at first, but when I mentioned my
own bewilderment at the change of name the
woman had adopted, and at the complete
purity of her French accent, I could see
Clara's face brightening.

You have been frightened by a resemblance,'
she said.

'No,' I answered, 'the thing is only too
certain.' And I went on to tell of 
's identification of the little Jew solicitor.
Her face fell again, and I saw that she shared
my own certainty, though she strove to combat
it. She was evidently resolved to becalm

and strong, though in spite of herself
her voice trembled as she spoke.

What are you going to do ? ' she asked.

I am going,' I answered, ' in the first
place to telegraph to Paris to say that my
return tomorrow is impossible. Next, I
am going down by the six-o'clock train to
Exeter. I shall wire to Pole to meet me
there. I shall tell him the story, and leave
him to act upon it as he may see fit'

I suppose,' she said, ' he will see fit to
go to Paris, but that woman, if she is really
Mrs. Pole, is not likely to be in the same
house when you get there. Wire to your
friend Mr. Macllray, and tell him to have
her movements watched. She would be at
least as certain to know you as you were to
know her. You did not disguise yourself
by speaking an unexpected language.'

Now I had done nothing but chase up
and down in my own mind the sensible,
necessary, and practical things to do, and
yet it had never occurred to me to think

that the woman on whose identification
everything depended might choose to complicate
our difficulties by evading inquiry.
Yet, directly the thought was suggested tome
I saw that there was nothing more certain
in the world. The chances against her
lying there waiting to be caught were a
million to one. I was for starting at once
to repair my stupidity as far as possible by
a telegram to A lac II ray when Clara bade me
wait a moment, and rang the bell.

'We will see Mary together before you
go,' she said, with a self-possession which
did her infinite credit in my eyes. ' She
will be less likely to be alarmed or disturbed
if she knows that we have come to an understanding
to do something, and if we seem to
put a bold front upon the matter. A day
or two is not much, John, but I should
value a day or two's ignorance if you and I
were going to be parted.'

The maid, appearing in answer to the
bell, was instructed to summon Miss Delamere,

and a minute later Mary entered the
room. Clara, who was by this time quite
mistress of herself, relieved me of the task of
explanation.

'We have talked things over,' she began,
with her arm about the other's waist, and
looking at her with a smiling, mournful
tenderness. ' John has brought very serious
and surprising news, but we are not yet
certain that it is true. We can know all
about it if we exercise a little patience ; and
he is going to make inquiries.'

If the news is bad news, dear,' said Miss
Delamere, ' I hope it may be contradicted.
If it is very bad news I am sure you bear it
bravely, and I am sure you will bear it
bravely, even should it prove to be true.'

I should never bear trouble so well as
you would,' Clara answered. There was a
meaning in her words for her and me which
could hardly be expected to reach Miss
Delamere's mind. * We must dismiss all
thought of this,' Clara continued, ' until we

hear decisively ; and you must promise not
to ask any questions about it until I speak of
it again.'

The promise was given, and, as I knew
afterwards, was kept, though one hears occasionally
of feminine curiosity, and there
was probably enough here to excite it to
considerable activity. I took my leave
almost at once, and went off to despatch my
telegrams. I delayed my message to Pole
until I could lay hands upon a Bradshaw,
and could find in its pages the name of an
hotel in Exeter. I found what I wanted at
an old-fashioned tavern where I made a
pretence of dining. Then I sent off my
message, making it as urgent as I could
without expressing Pole's actual concern in
the affair, and took the evening express.

It was dusk already within the limits of the
station, but the train glided into a new day
outside, and the autumn sunlight was clear
and beautiful. Once beyond the line of
houses, and rushing through the peaceful
fields, I surrendered myself to the contemplation
of the scenery with that curious indifference
which I suppose everybody has
experienced at times of mental tension or
trouble. I remember that when, years
before this story opened, I was awaiting
news of my mother, who lay in the room
above me, hovering between life and death,
my whole heart and thoughts were concentrated
on the effort to set a flower-jar in the
exact middle of the window-sill it stood on.

Nothing in the world seemed to me so important
as a mathematical accuracy in that
poor achievement. As I rode westward I
recalled that episode in my history, and
likened my present condition of mind to my
feelings of that hour, so that I was able to
know that I was less indifferent than I felt.
There was a gorgeous sunset, which gilded
all the fields and made the face of one of
my fellow-passengers glow like hot metal,
burnished. Then the night came down.
My fellow-travellers left me midway in the
journey, and I tried to compose myself for
sleep. This I soon discovered to be an
absolute impossibility. The jolting of the
carnage and the rolling of wheels took up
all manner of senseless and irritating refrains,
and sang them over and over again
until I was sick and angry. One in particular,
the chorus of a song supposed by the
general populace to be comic, and in reality
not more or less idiotic than a hundred
others of its kind which I have known

before and since, insisted on returning with
such a perseverance as no cheering, enlightening
thought, or any fancy anyhow
reasonable and human, has displayed since
the world began — ' Slap, bang ! here we are
again.' I tried to remember and to repeat
verses, and before I had travelled through
the first four lines of Poe's ' Raven,' Slap,
bang ! there we were again, there we were
again, there we were again ; slap, bang ! there
we were again ; what jolly dogs were we. I
got out my note-book, and tried to study its
pages by the light of the sickly yellow lamp,
but the oil washed to and fro in the dirty
glass basin and made the very flame wink to
that abominable tune and those unmeaning
words. The wheels ground them out remorselessly,
and the carriage creaked and
rattled and complained all over. For we
always were so jolly, oh ! so jolly, oh ! so
jolly, oh ! we always were so jolly, oh !
what jolly dogs were we. I gave up trying
to do anything, and travelled on to Exeter

in a dumb and anguished resignation to that
brutal melody.

I hardly knew whether I was shocked
or relieved to find Pole standing on the platform
at two o'clock in the morning to receive
me. He was ordinarily very cool about his
demonstrations of friendship, but he shook
me by the hand with what was, for him, an
unwonted show of warmth, and clawed me
affectionately by the shoulder. At our first
encounter his face was in the light, and mine
in the dark, and I could see a marked difference
in him. He had grown quite handsome
in this last three months, and a look of
settled, strong serenity had taken the place
of the stern air of self-control which had
been used to characterise him. He had
brought a fly with him from the hotel, and
laying hold of my portmanteau he carried it
out of the station, and set it down on the
front seat of the vehicle. We mounted, and
the man rumbled away.

I am glad to see you, old chap,' said

Pole cheerily, clapping his hand upon my
knee. ' I suppose you have been having
fine times in Paris.'

It was evident that he suspected nothing
unusual as yet. I could see that he supposed
me to have run down to Exeter simply for
the pleasure of spending an hour or two in
his society.

I was out when your telegram came,' he
went on when I had answered his last question
with some commonplace, ' but I got in
an hour after it was delivered, and found that
I just had time to catch the up-train. So,
guessing that you wouldn't have a great
deal of time to spare — your last letter told
me that — I thought it best to run up at once,
and catch you on arrival. When have you
to get back again ?'

'As soon as possible,' I told him. 'I
exceeded my leave to come down here.'

Then,' said he, ' if you're not too tired,
we'll make a sober night of it, and have a
good long satisfactory jaw. You can sleep

going Up by train tomorrow. I've been on
the point of making a dash over to look at
you half a dozen times, but, what with the
poor old fellow down at Worborough and a
certain affair that holds me in London when
I get a chance to go there, I've missed
doing it.'

My arrival seemed to have put him in unusually
high spirits. His voice was changed,
and had a ring of jollity in it I had never
heard before. It cut me to the heart to
think of the message I had to deliver to him,
and for the moment I recoiled before my
own enterprise with a complete cowardice.
My cowardice was so complete, indeed, that
I did at one moment actually resolve not to
deliver my tidings at all in person, but to go
away and write them. This abject condition
did not endure long, however, and by the
time at which the hotel was reached I had
recovered my courage.

I have taken a sitting-room,' said Pole
cheerily, ' and there's a bit of a cold spread

laid out there in case you're hungry. Carry
the portmanteau to this gentleman's room,
John, and then, so far as we are concerned,
you can go to bed.'

He led the way upstairs to a cheerful
apartment, where candles burned upon the
table and the mantelpiece, and a small fire
glowed upon the hearth.

'Would you like a wash first?' he demanded,
laying both hands upon my shoulders.
For the first time he saw my face clearly,
and he looked at me with a sudden anxiety.
Jack, old man, what's the matter with
you ? You're looking quite ill, and worn,
and miserable. What is it ? No ill luck,
I hope.'

I could scarcely speak, and I do not know
to this hour in what words I broke the news.
I can see his ghastly face, of mingled incredulity
and horror, clearly — as clearly as I
saw it then.

'You're mad, Denham ! ' he said. 'I
saw her grave. You were with me when

Goldsmith brought the certificate of her
death.'

It was, I told him, a most wicked and
abominable plot. What means had been employed
I could only guess at, but the object
of the cheat was clear. His wife had effaced
herself for the time to trap him into marring
again, and then to make his life a burden,
as she had promised in my hearing. Goldsmith
had entered into the scheme, as I
surmised, partly from hatred, and partly in
the hope of levying black-mail. I set the
narrative of my discovery before him clearly,
and told him of Macllray's memory of Goldsmith's
visit.

'There is but one thing,' I said, 'which
seems to go against her identity. She speaks
French as only a Frenchwoman might be
supposed to speak it.'

She spoke nothing else,' he answered,
until she was twelve years of age. She
was born in Paris.'

When the first shock of my intelligence

VOL. II II

was over, he had taken one of his old lounging
poses in a corner of the apartment, with
his hands thrust deep into his pockets and
one foot thrown across the other. He
listened with bent head to all I had to say,
and when I ceased to speak looked up at
me.

'Well,' he said, with an odd laugh, 'I
suppose it's true. It's like my luck. You'd
better have a glass of wine, Denham. You're
a bit knocked up, old man.'

He lounged over to the table on which the
supper was laid out, with its white napkins
and glittering electorate, and there uncorked
a bottle. He filled two wine-glasses,
and held one out towards me. My shaking
hand spilt half its contents on the carpet,
but he drained his own, and, sitting down,
drew a cigar-case from his pocket, and, having
lit a cigar, sat smoking with apparent
tranquillity, inspecting the ash of the tobacco
and the texture of the cigar as if his judgment
on its quality were a matter of some

importance. Recalling once more my own
youthful experience at the time of my
mother's illness and its renewal of that very
night, I knew so well what that seeming
indifference covered, that it looked heartbreaking
to me.

For Heaven's sake, Pole,' I besought
him, * don't take it that way.'

I think I was half beside myself with pity,
and a foolish, unavailing remorse that it was
I who had struck this blow.

'My dear boy,' he said, 'it's got to betaken.
I must take it how I can.'

I sat watching him in an unhappy silence
whilst he smoked, and seemed to take no
note of anything. When the cigar had
dwindled to a mere stump he threw it into the
fireplace, and sauntered up and down the
room, pausing here and there to inspect the
prints upon the wall. Twice he laughed to
himself, with a mockery which was dreadful
to hear, a bitter, mirthless chuckle of half a
dozen notes.

'Suppose,' he said at last, 'that I don't
believe this story, Denham ? There's more
than one Jew named Goldsmith in the
world.'

'You can't act,' I answered, 'as if you
didn't believe it.'

No, no, no,' he said, as if he were repelling
some uninteresting and commonplace
stupidity. ' I can't act as if I didn't believe
it. But all the same, I won't believe it till I
know. You're going back to Paris ?'

'Yes,' I said, ' I must get back as soon
as possible. I should have been on my way
now if I had not been obliged to see you.'

Well,' he answered calmly, ' it couldn't
have been a very pleasant task for you, and
I'm very much obliged to you. I'll go to
Paris with you, and we'll look into things.
There's an up express at eight. We'll take
it together.'

I had not formed any conception of the
manner in which he would receive the news.
I could hardly have conceived him as accepting

anything unless with self-possession and
like a man, but the spectacle of his extreme
quietude was harder to endure than any outbreak
from a man of softer fibre would have
been. We sat the remnant of the night
through, keeping silence for the most part,
though sometimes Pole would open an indifferent
theme, and talk upon it for a moment
or two. When sounds about the house assured
us that the servants were astir, he rang
the bell. The candles had burned down in
their sockets, and the morning light already
stole in gayly upon our haggard faces, on
the unmoved dish-covers and the gray ashes
of the extinguished fire. The waiter, who
appeared in morning ndgligd, stared at us
in a faint wonder. Pole wrote out a telegram,
gave the waiter instructions to remove
the untasted meal, and ordered breakfast.
His message was addressed to Lord Marlborough,
and stated simply that I had
brought news of prime importance which
took him away for a day or two. We filled

Up the time of waiting for breakfast in our
separate bedrooms. I was not conscious of
any wish to sleep, but a cold bath removed
a good deal of the fatigue which naturally-lay
upon me, and dissipated for the time a
heavy headache, which had felt to me like
a part of Pole's unhappiness.

Neither of us ate much when the breakfast
came, and the time drawled on wearily,
the very ticking of the clock seeming to have
slowed down on purpose to retard our departure.
The express sauntered idly London-wards
— nothing could have seemed quick
enough to my unreasoning impatience.
There was no delivery beyond, no relief
nor hope to hasten to. Yet if I had had
wings as swift as meditation I could not have
gone faster than I desired.

Pole, who had supplied himself with necessities
for the night only, went to his own
chambers, and there packed a portmanteau.
He was fond of having everything which
appertained to his own personal requirements,

fine and rich, and he got together all
his pretty trifles with a mechanical precision.
We dined at a restaurant, and took the evening
train. In my own case nature asserted
herself after all the fatigue I had undergone,
and I slept uneasily most of the way to
Dover, and again after the passage of the
Channel. Whenever my slumbers broke I
opened my eyes to see Pole sitting opposite
to me grave and impassive. The old, hard
look was back upon his face, and was intensified
tenfold. He looked as if he where
going to lead a forlorn hope, or to be hanged,
and was determined to take the inevitable
without a sign. He was in all my waking
thoughts, and in all my dreams. I fell over
scores of yawning precipices on that mournful
journey, but never once without Pole
having fallen over the edge before me, or
his falling with me, or his cry, as he followed,
startling me to a waking knowledge scarcely
more endurable than my dreams.

Reaching Paris, we repaired at once to the

Boulevard Haussmann, and there, leaving
our portmanteaux in the fiacre at the door,
we mounted to Macllray's room. I had told
Pole of my message to him, and my fear lest
Mrs. Pole should have vanished in the certainty
that I had recognised her, and we had
decided to visit Macllray first of all. That
good Scot was already up and half attired,
pottering about his room in dressing-gown
and slippers. He recognised Pole at once
from a portrait of him he had seen in my
possession, and said as much with an amiable
cordiality.

You got the message I sent to . you by
wire ?' I asked.

'Ay,' he said, 'I got it; but I got it an
hour too late. The birdie's flown, lad.'

I glanced at Pole and saw, by his face,
that he accepted this as strong confirmation
of my story, though I knew well enough that
at the bottom of his mind the story had no
need of confirmation. He drew a leathern
portfolio of rather unusual size from his

pocket, and from this produced two or three
photographs. The photographer's art had not
reached to anything Hke its present excellence
of delicacy, but the likeness in these sun-pictures,
though a little hard, was unmistakable.

Two identification,' said Pole quietly,
are stronger than one. Is that the lady Mr.
Denham believed himself to recognise ?'

'The verra woman,' Macllray declared,
when he had found and polished his gold-rammed
spectacles. ' There's no mistake in
the world about that. The likeness would
just hang her. I suppose,' he added, with a
manner which robbed his speech of its apparent
brusquerie, ' I suppose, sir, ye'll be the
unhappy husband. Denham named no names,
but ye're always on his tongue, and he said
she was the wife of his dearest friend, so that
I was inclined to suppose 'twas you.' There
he fell into a little reverie over the photographs
as they lay upon the table. He
rubbed his red hair fretfully until it stood
up everywhere, and came to his unvarying

conclusion, 'Ay, ay, Denham ! Ay, ay, man!
Ay, ay!' It was spoken with a tone of
profound melancholy, but he brightened into
eagerness a moment later. ' I hope,' he said,
that I've done the right thing. These
police in Paris are just demons, and if once
they get hold of a thing they'll worry you to
death about it. I agitated them, and went
to a first-rate maison de confiance within an
hour and a half of the lady having left the
house ; and I've one other bit of news for
you. I found this — ' he rummaged in his
coat-pockets, and by and by produced a telegram,
dated from London, addressed to
Madame Damal, and bearing these words
only, ' Partez sans ddlai pour Lyons' ' She
dropped that upon the table,' he said, 'and
left it behind her.'

That,' said Pole, taking it up and letting
it flutter back to the table, ' is nothing buta
blind. If she leaves word in that way that
she has gone to Lyons, Lyons is the one place
in the world she will not go to.'

We found, upon inquiry, that the private
agent employed by Macllray had already
been at work to some effect. Knowing the
precise hour at which Mrs. Pole had left the
house, and having a fairly accurate description
of her personal appearance and attire
from Macllray, he had had little difficulty in
finding the driver who had transported her
and her luggage to the Gare de Lyons. The
driver remembered the lady perfectly well
for one or two reasons. In the first place,
she was strikingly dressed in a mephistopheles
mixture of black and scarlet ; in the
second place, the cocker seemed to have an
eye for a handsome woman, and described
his fare as * ferment belle'; finally, her

curious proceedings at the station had excited
his wonder. At the moment of his arrival
there a train had just discharged its passengers,
and the man had lingered in the
hope of picking up a new fare. He saw the
lady whose luggage he had just assisted in
dismounting from his own vehicle in the act
of chartering another fiacre. He saw the
luggage placed upon the roof, and heard the
lady's order to be driven to the Gare de C'est.
The agent, being supplied with the photographs,
sought the driver a second time, and
Pole and I accompanied him. The man
recognised the face at once. That was undoubtedly
the lady he had driven. Pole,
who looked less interested either than the
driver or myself, less interested even than
the agent, held out one of the photographs
for the coachman's observation, and bade
him look at it attentively. Was it not possible,
he asked, just possible, that he had
been misled by a strong likeness ? The man
shook his head.

If I were to tell you,' said Pole, 'that
this lady is dead and buried, what should
you say ?'

Nothing at all,' the coachman answered ;
I do not permit myself to say impolite
things.'

'You would not believe it ?'
'Assuredly I should not believe it.'
Pole feed the man for the trouble he had
given him, and then, having surrendered the
portrait to the agent for his assistance, he
went away to the hotel he had chosen for
himself, and left me to the pursuit of my
ordinary avocations. I am free to confess
that Macllray and I consumed a good deal of
the office time that day and for some days
afterwards in the discussion of this surprising
topic.

He's a cool hand, yon,' said Macllray,
referring to Pole. ' I was at a loss with the
man to begin with. He's one of those people
that would like you to think they've a
cannon-ball in their bosoms instead of a

heart, but it's my opinion that he's a trifle
more feeling than he'd have ye then him.
There's a kind o' man that has just a savage
idea of personal dignity, and that lives in a
house with every window close-shuttered.
I'm not sure that there isn't the wildest sort
o' high-jerks going on within doors, for all
so quiet as the house may look on the outside.'


I told him that this was very much my
own opinion, and indeed that I knew Pole
to be a man of very profound and sensitive
feeling.

The lady has the pull of him there very
distinctly,' said the Scot. * Not that she
hasn't her feelings too, but she makes a
luxury of them. A real flaming quarrel to
a parson of that disposition is nothing less
than a Heaven-sent blessing. I wish the
poor young gentleman well through with the
business. It's a mighty petty to see a fine
straight-grown young fellow like yon in such
a strait'

Macllray took the story, so far as he was
allowed to know it, very much to heart, and
his contemplative 'Ay, ay, Denham,' grew
much more frequent than of old, and took a
mournful and almost despondent tone.

Pole had given me no invitation to join
him, and I took it for granted that he would
have preferred to be alone. I did my best
to keep away from him, and for one whole
day succeeded. At the end of that time I
could wait no longer for a message from him,
and I went to see him. He had taken
apartments high up in a big hotel of the
newer fashion, and when I entered his room
he was seated, pen in hand, at a table by the
window. He glanced at me across his
shoulder, and bade me wait a minute or two
whilst he finished his letter. I sat down at
the opposite side of the table and could see
his face clearly. It was stern and composedly
set, but, unless I was much mistaken, there
were signs in it of a recent surrender to his
troubles. A handkerchief lay upon the table

near his hand. It was much crumpled and
very moist, and I drew my own conclusions
from the evidence which it and his eyes
afforded.

I heard the rapid scrawl of his signature
following on the more deliberately written
text, and he looked up at me.

'That's over,' he said, laying a sheet of
blotting-paper upon the letter, and smoothing
it with a resolute and heavy hand.

I did not answer him in words, and when
he had folded the letter and enveloped and
addressed it, he tossed it across the table to
where I sat. I saw that it was addressed to
Delamere, and I could guess at once the
nature of its contents, and the emotions Pole
had endured in writing it.

Neither of us said anything of this, however,
and each was certain that the other
understood.

The agent was here,' said Pole, *a couple
of hours ago. He came to tell me that he
had been to the Gare de C'est with the

photograph, and had made inquiries there.
He found a booking clerk who remembered
to have given her a ticket, but unfortunately
he was not able to recall the place for which
she started. The man proposes now to take
the line, station by station, to show the
photograph everywhere, and make inquiries
until he lights upon her.'

'Is there,' I asked him, 'any lingering
doubt in your mind which makes you pursue
this chase ?'

I don't know,' he answered, with an air
of great weariness, ' that I should care to
call it a doubt. As a matter of fact, I don't
suppose I have any doubt about the matter.
But there's a sort of fantastic fancy that I
may be chasing a phantom. It is just strong
enough to keep me going till I find her. It
is not strong enough to keep me here, for
I am going back to-night. I was coming
round to your place to say good-bye before
starting.'

Are you going back to Worborough ? '

VOL. II I

I asked, chiefly for the sake of saying something.


I am going back to London first,' he answered
in a tone of weary boredom. Then
he straightened himself, and added, in a
changed voice, ' I am going to see Mr. Goldsmith.'


What there was in the tone, or what I saw
in his face to inspire me with so incredible
and so wild a fancy as shot into my mind at
that moment, I should find it difficult, if not
impossible, to tell. If that mad imagination
did him wrong, as I do now most sincerely
believe it did, it has at least long since been
confessed and forgiven.

For what purpose ? ' I asked him, speaking
as calmly as I could, though I knew that
my voice trembled.

He did not answer me, but took two or
three paces up and down the room.

Pole,' I said, laying a hand upon his
arm. He turned and looked at me. 'If,'
I continued, ' if you go to see that man.

I go with you. You shall not visit him
alone.'

'Very well,' he said. 'You can come if
you please. I supposed you had your work
to see to.'

I can arrange for that,' I answered.
There are more important things than that
in the world ; and you shan't see Goldsmith
alone just now if I can help it.'

Very well,' he answered me again ; 'you
shall have your own way.'

He looked at me with a strange smile,
more mournful and more tender than any
human expression I can remember to have
seen.

'What is the good,' I asked him, 'of
going to Goldsmith at all ? What purpose
do you propose to serve .-^ If he is in the
cheat at all — and we are as certain that he
is as we can be of anything — you will only
put your wife upon her guard, and make
your discovery of her more difficult. Look
the whole thing in the face : What is her

motive for running away from Paris ? Fear
of you ? '

No,' said Pole, ' she is not afraid of me,
nor of anything.'

She has been seen once,' I continued,
and has gone away in the hope that by her
complete disappearance she might delude you
into the belief that I had been mistaken. I
can trace the workings of her mind as clearly
as if they were the action of my own. She
argues that the wish is father to the thought.
She knows you had the solidest grounds for
believing her dead, and she thinks that in a
while, with the passage of time, you will
bring yourself to believe my certainty a mere
suspicion, and so will fall into the hideous
trap she set for you.

Does it matter what she thinks } ' he
asked.

Yes,' I answered ; ' it obviously matters
much. If she knows that you are absolutely
certain of her existence she knows that she
has no purpose to serve further, and if you

desire to hind her for the satisfaction of that
lingering doubt you spoke of you will do it
far more easily by not giving her warning
than by giving it

I mean to see Goldsmith, all the same,'
Pole answered.

In that case I told him, ' I shall go at
once to Macllray and make arrangements for
another day or two of absence.'

That's agreed upon,' said Pole. ' I would
as soon have you for a looker-on as anybody.'

It was agreed that I should call upon him
in time to catch the northward express, and
so, for a time, we parted. I found ]^lacllray
at the office and told him of my purpose.

Ye're a verra reasonable youth,' said he,
when I had made my statement, 'and I'll
suppose that ye have a reason for this. But
there's two three things to be looked after,
and I'm thinking they'll be getting a little
wild in London. They seem to have less
appreciation of my literary style than I
honestly think I desire, and they'll be

missing that compact hand o' yours. We'd
best give the chief a look-up in town and
offer an explanation.'

I promised to take that duty upon myself,
and was making ready to go away when he
crossed the room with an air of mystery and
understanding.

I've been taking,' said he, 'a sympathetic
look round, and for the space o' some ten
seconds I've been mentally occupying your
friend's position. I'm of opinion that ef
I were in his place, I'd be sorely tempted
nine-tenths to slay that bayard little Jew
creature. Keep an eye on your friend,
Denham. He's a bit of a volcano. He's tall
enough to wear ice on the top of him, but
that's no argument against the existence of
the fire below.'

I told Macllray that it was precisely this
reflection and no other which had persuaded
me to accompany Pole to London. Hearing
this, he shook me warmly by the hand.

There's a heap o' wisdom abroad,' he

said, ' but there's a wonderful small amount
of it finds its way into the British jury-box.
It's honest human nature to give a fellow like
that sore bones, but it might go unduly hard
with the man that ded it. Yere on an honest
errand, and ye're a decent lad, Denham,
and I'll just do my best in your absence.'

There is nothing to tell of the return
journey to London, except that Pole's manner
throughout it kept that mad inquietude of
which I have spoken alive and active. We
went straight to his own chambers, and there
refreshed ourselves, and at about eleven
o'clock Pole began to draw on his gloves, and
announced his intention of starting forthwith
to visit Mr. Goldsmith.

On one of the walls of his bedroom a series
of brass-headed nails had been driven in to
form a rack for a considerable collection of
walking-sticks, hunting-crops, and riding-whips.
Pole, lounging up to this with the
thumbs of his gloved hands stuck into his
pockets, surveyed the collection with a critical

eye. By and by he selected, and laid upon
the sitting-room table, a whip with a handle
of twisted whalebone and a loaded head of
silver. As he stood passing a brush about
his hat I took hold of this weapon and
balanced it in my hand. Pole looked at me
with a face of no expression, and without saying
anything to him I took back the whip
and put it in its original place. Pole, setting
his hat nonchalantly on the back of his head,
sauntered after me and took it down again.
Looking me full in the face with that same
marked absence of any legible expression, he
lowered it firmly and slowly towards the table
and finally deposited it there with a bang. I
laid hands upon it once more.

'There's no knowing,' I said, balancing it
anew, ' what damage this thing might do in
the hands of a strong and angry man.'

A second time I placed it on the rack, and
for the third time he took it down.

Now,' he said, ' if you are ready we will
go and see Goldsmith.'

As everybody knows, it is easily possible to
be mightily fond of a man, and yet to be
angry with him. I was angrier with Pole
than I had ever been in my life with anybody,
and I walked by his side in hot indignation
at his obstinacy. If he could have
employed the whip he carried for Mr. Goldsmith's
benefit without danger to himself, it
is quite likely I might have felt differently
about the matter. A mere flogging would
have been slight punishment for Goldsmith s
rascally offence, and I could even have taken
some righteous pleasure in knowing that it
was to be administered. It was quite natural
that Pole should wish to administer it ; but it
was no part of my business to stand by and

allow him to get into new trouble. Even if
he failed to regret the flogging itself, he was
certain to regret its consequences. Perhaps
at the bottom of my heart I was as anxious
that Goldsmith should suffer as Pole himself
was, and the very knowledge that he could
not get his deserts without bringing more
suffering to the man he had tried so vilely to
injure, helped to increase my anger.

We marched side by side down Holborn
towards Goldsmith's offices in Ely Place,
without a word on either side. An outer
door was open, and a dapper little City man
was in the act of exchanging a final word
with a clerk, and half blocked up the doorway.
Pole, who had got a yard ahead of
me, set this personage on one side without
apology and walked past him, I following.
There were two other people in the room,
and one of them with a pen behind his ear
made a step or two forward as we entered.
Pole, without paying any heed to him, went
straight to a door marked ' Private,' turned

the handle, and entered the farther room. I
still kept at his heels, and was in time to seethe
start of amazement with which Goldsmith
half arose from the chair he sat in. I had no
sooner entered than Pole slammed to the
door, turned the key, withdrew it, and put it
in his pocket. I took advantage of the time
afforded me by this movement to place myself
between the two.

Goldsmith went very white, and those
jetty little eyes of his glanced hither and
thither in a rapid, unavailing search for a way
of retreat.

What do you mead by this ? ' he demanded.
' That's a very curious way of
entering a business office. Bister Pole.'

'Yes,' said Pole; 'it's a curious way of
entering a business office, Mr. Goldsmith.
But it's a curious sort of creature that keeps
the office, and I have a curious little bit of
business to transact with him.'

There was a tone of relishing badinage in
Pole's voice, but there was no suspicion of

humour in his look ; and what with the bantering
tone and the sternness of the gaze he
encountered, Mr. Goldsmith saw such excellent
reasons for fear that he turned paler
still, and his hands began to tremble visibly.

I don't understand you,' he responded
nervously.

I think you party understand me,' Pole
answered in the same mocking voice. ' I
think we shall understand each other very
thoroughly before long.'

The offered prospect of a perfect understanding
was evidently unpleasant to Goldsmith.
He must have known perfectly well
that there was no way of retreat for him, but
the jetty little eyes went on seeking for one
all the same. He made a great effort to pull
himself together, and partially succeeded.

Have the goodness to explain yourself,'
he said.

There was a big ruler lying on the desk,
and his hand reached out furtively towards
it. Before I had a chance to move Pole

made a swift step forward and possessed
himself of Goldsmith's defensive weapon. I
was afraid that the promised understanding
was coming about precipitately, but Pole
merely dropped the ruler into a waste-paper
basket out of Goldsmith's reach, and then
seated himself.

When my friend, Mr. Denham, here,'
Pole began, ' had the distinguished honour
of crossing the Channel in your company,
you told him, as I learn, that you were on
your way to see a client in Paris.'

Goldsmith must have known pretty well
already what was coming, and he was pale
enough in all conscience already. But at
this opening of the case against him, such
colour as his face still had deserted it, and
his moist and pulpy lips took a bluish
tinge.

You described that client as a lady. You
said that she would one day occupy a high
position, and make a noise in the world. I
suppose that you are already aware that

Mr. Denham met that client of yours four
days ago ? '

How should I know that ? ' asked Goldsmith.
' And if I did know it, what is there
id that to make a row about ? '

The manner of his inquiry was utterly
unsuccessful, and it was evident that he
knew as much.

Now,' Pole continued, * since you visited
your client personally, it is only reasonable
to presume that you were aware of her
identity.'

What are you trying to talk about ? '
cried Goldsmith, with a wretched attempt. to
look surprised and puzzled. ' Of course
I've been aware of her identity. I got a
letter from her odly yesterday. I don't
know what business it is of yours, or what
you come here and talk about her for.'

As often happens, the sound of the little
scoundrel's voice seemed to lend him courage,
and I fancy he saw a glimmer of hope that
the lines of his defence might shield him

after all if he were only allowed to get
behind them. His shaking hands made a
search amongst a little heap of documents,
pigeon-holed in one of the compartments of
the knee-table at which he sat. He produced
one of the papers with a frightened,
blustering flourish, and slapped it on the
table as if he would have said that that alone
would clear him of any possible aspersion.

There's the letter,' he said ; ' it's got
nothing to do with you so far as I know,
but you cad look at it if you like.'

Pole extended his hand as if asking for
the document, and I, standing between him
and the table, passed it to him, and slightly
changing my posture, was able to read it
with him. It ran thus : —

Lyons, 64 Rue de la Regency.

Dear Sir — During few days my adresse
will be as here above. I myself have found
forced to quit Paris, and am myself here
established. Behold me absent of my documents
of affairs, and it must that you wait

my return for a fifteen of days. Agree,
dear sir, my salutations regretful for the pain
I give you, Marie Damal.'

'That's the kind of stuff she writes,'
cried Goldsmith, as Pole handed the letter
back to me. ' She picks the words out of
the dictionary.'

This document, Mr. Goldsmith,' said
Pole, 'is of no interest to me. It is not in
my wife's handwriting.'

At this Goldsmith gave a great start, and
tried hard to feign amazement.

I say. Bister Dedhab,' he said, appealing
to me, ' if he's like that you ought to
have him taken care of. It isn't very likely
to look like your wife's handwriting. It's
quite enough that there should have been
such a surprising personal likeness between
them. D'ye think it's that' — he appealed
to me again — ' that's turned him queer ?
Has he seen the lady ? '

I myself,' I answered, impatient alike

of Pole's savage banter and Goldsmith's
shuffling, ' I myself saw Mrs. Pole alive
on Monday last in Paris, and dined at the
same table with her.'

'Well, upon my word,' cried Mr. Goldsmith,
with a ver)' creditable assumption of
amazement this time, though his success was
achieved too late to be of much service to
him ; ' the pair of you are mad together.
There's a likeness, I admit that there's a
likeness, but it ain't so strong as that comes
to, not by long chalks.'

Very well, Mr. Goldsmith,' said Pole,
I will tell you what you shall do. You
shall put yourself in my charge from this
moment, you shall conduct me into the
presence of this client of yours, and you
shall be so watched that you shall have no
opportunity of warning her of our arrival.
If your statement is true I will pay you
your own claim for wasted time, and for
expenses.'

This proposal made Goldsmith more un-vol.

II K

comfortable than ever, but he affected to
treat it as a mere piece of madness.

I'm not going gallivanting off to France
on a fool's errand with a couple of madmen
he declared. ' I've got my business to see
to, and I'm going to see to it.'

My good Goldsmith,' said Pole, with a
cruel suavity, ' I will give you my cheque
for five hundred pounds at this moment. It
will be honoured on your return.'

What a piece of nonsense ! ' cried Goldsmith.
' What do I want to rob you of five
hundred pounds for.'^ There's the lady's
address, 64 Roo de la Regency, Lyons. Go
and make a call on her.'

You won't earn five hundred pounds so
easily ? ' asked Pole.

No ! ' shouted Goldsmith. ' I won't be
bothered any more with such a pack of
foolery. Go and see the lady. Go and see
her.'

'Will you earn five hundred pounds,' Pole
asked, ' by a ten-minutes' drive in a cab ? '

He drew from his pocket a copy of the
photographic portrait he had left with the
agent in Paris, and held it up before Goldsmith.


No, I won't,' snarled Goldsmith, without
waiting to hear what might be proposed to
him. ' I won't have anything to do with
you.'

I think it possible,' Pole said, in the
same unrelenting quiet voice, ' that we may
have much to do with each other by and
by. I offer you five hundred pounds if you
will drive with me to St. Bartholomew's
Hospital, and declare that this is a portrait
of the dying woman whom you identified
there as Adelaide Pole. Will you earn the
money ? '

Goldsmith returned no answer this time,
but his breath grew thick and husky, and
his glance darted hither and thither in a
panic-stricken renewal of his search for a
way of escape. There were curious, dry-looking
little flecks of foam upon his lips,

and his hands no longer merely trembled.
They shook like those of a man with the
palsy. Pole returned the photograph to his
pocket, and rose to his feet, buttoning his
coat as he did so. He held the whip tightly
clenched in his right hand meanwhile, and
the little Jew cowered in his seat before him.
I put myself between the two, and looked
Pole in the face.

'This man,' I said, 'has done you too
great a wrong to be paid for in this way.
You shall not put yourself in the wrong if I
can help it'

Let me get by. Jack,' he said in a tone
of quiet commonplace.

If you will have a little reason,' I
answered him, 'you will know what must
come of this. If you lay violent hands upon
this pitiful little rascal here, you disgrace
yourself publicly. You can't keep out of
the exposure some names that are sacred to
you.'

Let me get by,' he said.

I will not let you get by,' I answered.
I am too much your friend.'

You don't want to quarrel with me,
Denham ? '

Not I ; but you shall only do this mad
and useless thing by making me unable to
prevent it.'

During this contention Goldsmith had
risen and stolen to the waste-paper basket,
where he secured the big ruler. Then he
entrenched himself behind an arm-chair ina
corner, and stood to watch the progress
of events with a natural and excusable
anxiety.

'Wait a moment,' Pole said, with an odd
gleam at me, half humorous, half-mournful,
and altogether affectionate. ' Perhaps you
and I may arrive at a compromise, old fellow
I don't want to make this visit altogether
profitless, and I have a proposal to make. I
am going to ask Mr. Goldsmith my wife's
real whereabouts. If he will give me that I
will let him off so far as this goes, and if he

will not, I shall ask your indulgence whilst I
flog him till he does.'

I think there is nothing so tragic in this
world that it can altogether exclude the element
of humour. The whole of this business
was tragic and bitter enough, but if I had
had to change places with Goldsmith for it, I
could not have saved myself from laughter at
the sight of his countenance when I acceded
to Pole's proposal.

Yes,' I said, ' I consent to that, because I
know he is not the sort of man to take a
thrashing for anybody's sake.'

The little man in the corner had obviously
experienced a beautiful relief at my interposition.
But now he fell into a state of terror
altogether abject.

I shall take it fighting,' he quavered from
behind his arm-chair, and made a paralytic
show with the big ruler. ' I ain't going to be
knocked about and not retaliate. You can't expect
that, Bister Pole, now can you ? I put it
to you. You can't expect me not to retaliate. '

'You pledge yourself, Denham,' said Pole,
not to interfere between this fellow and myself
if he refuses me an answer.'

Certainly,' I replied ; ' if he refuses the
answer I leave him in your hands.'

At this response Goldsmith gave an exasperated
little whine, and snatched the armchair
closer.

'Now, Mr. Goldsmith,' said Pole, sternly
advancing upon him, ' you know what I
want. Will you give it to me peacefully,
or shall I be compelled to thrash it out of
you .^ '

'How should I know what you want .^ '
Goldsmith asked, watching Pole's riding-whip
with comfortlessly expectant eye.

I want you to give me my wife's address.'

Her address,' said the wretched Hebrew,
'is at Kedsal Greed.'

'Come from behind that chair,' said Pole,
with a sudden sternness. ' Take a seat at
your table. Take this pen. Write the
address upon that envelope. I give you sixty

seconds. If it is not done by that time you
shall take the consequences.'

He drew out his watch, and looked at it
fixedly, his right hand swishing the riding-whip
up and down with a threatening and
disturbing sound.

Fifteen seconds,' he said, after what had
seemed a much longer pause. Then, after a
pause, which seemed even longer, ' Thirty
seconds.' Goldsmith dipped the pen, and
groaned. ' Forty seconds,' said Pole. Goldsmith
groaned again, and the pen began to
travel rapidly.

The address was written, and Pole, taking
it from the table, read, ' Madame Damal, 28
Rue Racine, Quartier de I'Odeon, Paris.' He
pressed it on the blotting-pad which lay upon
the table, and placed it in his pocket-book.

And now,' he said, ' you know better than
I to what penalties you have made yourself
liable by joining in this conspiracy. Your
safest way will be to put me in possession of
the whole plot and its purpose.'

Goldsmith seemed to realise this, and in a
while he began a confused and intricate narrative,
which, being unravelled and plainly
told, amounted to this : On a certain day,
between four and five months earlier, Mrs.
Pole had witnessed a street accident. She
had followed the woman who was injured to
the hospital, and had there professed to
identify her as Adelaide Pole. She had
given a false name and address, and had
come at once to Goldsmith to inform him of
the move she had made, and to tell him its
purpose. The woman was, beyond doubt,
fatally injured, and the hospital surgeons gave
no hope of her recovery. Mrs. Pole induced
Goldsmith to assist in the pretended identification,
and it was he who had found money
for the funeral expenses. He had, since that
time, supported his fellow-conspirator, in the
belief that Pole would re-marry, and that they
would then be able to black-mail him to
almost any extent. Mrs. Pole's object was
mainly to be revenged upon her husband.

Goldsmith professed to have been more than
half frightened into the transaction by her
threats.

'She's got ad awful temper, Bister Pole,'
he said. ' She's an extremely violent .person.
You know she is. I wouldn't live with such
a woman for the world. I can sympathise
with you, sir, I can indeed.'

I will not decide at present,' Pole answered,
disregarding, not unnaturally, this novel sentiment
of Mr. Goldsmith's. 'I may take
criminal proceedings against both of you.'

Oh,' cried Goldsmith, ' I hope that better
counsels may prevail with you.'

'If,' Pole pursued, 'you give one sign to
my wife of my knowledge of her whereabouts,
I shall enter on those proceedings at once.
You understand that I make no promise of
refraining from them in any case. I only
warn you that any communication from you
to my wife will precipitate matters.'

Goldsmith was so thoroughly cowed by this
time that the warning seemed unnecessary.

I've washed my hands of the whole
business,' he exclaimed. ' I'll have no more
to do with it. I'd never have put a finger toit
if you hadn't chucked me into the river.
But look here now, Bister Pole. You look
at it, Bister Dedhab. Suppose anybody
chucked either one of you into the river and
you got a chance to land him one on a dark
night three months after, and if you thought
it was quite safe to do it, do you think you'd
let the chance go by ? • I put it to you,
gentlemen. I put it to you as honourable and
high-minded men.'

Pole unlocked the door, and we left this
query unanswered.

When we came upon the street, with the
clerks in Mr. Goldsmith's employ staring
after us, as well they might, he passed his arm
through mine, and gave a little friendly
pressure.

'I'm very much obliged, Denham. You
have saved me from a very grave folly.'

The days and the weeks went by, and winter
was back again. I heard but little of the
people with whom this history concerns itself.
I had bidden good-bye to Pole sorrowfully
and reluctantly, and had returned to my duties
in Paris, leaving him to go back to Marlborough,
to tend the last days of an old man
who had been nearly all his life a stranger,
and to abandon the dead and buried hopes
which lay behind him in London. It is
never a useful or an admirable thing to rave
against the unescapable. The common-sense
of the proverb is final, and the last word
which is to be spoken on that question lies
in its curt jingle — what can't be cured must
be endured. Endured it has to be, after one

fashion or another, and Pole took his share
of the inevitable, to my thinking, like a hero.
It is a common cant of opinion, as often
falsified as justified by fact, that the men and
women who take misfortune or joy most
calmly taste the bitterness of the one or the
sweetness of the other with a fulness of
suffering or pleasure unknown to the more
expansive and explosive sort. I have always
combated this judgment, perhaps because I
am myself a rather expansive kind of person,
but I know that in Pole's case it would have
found as strong a confirmation as a general
theory can gather from a single instance.
He said nothing, and he felt the more.
Words would have eased him if he could
have brought himself to speak, but he was
one of those who have to break before they
can bend, and any revelation of his own
feelings would have been too terrible. He
wrote me now and again, simply and briefly,
and his letters made no allusion to the past.
They spoke of Lord Worborough's failing

health oftener than of anything. I never
knew, as a matter of actual fact, but I was
fairly certain that Pole had told him of the
plot his wife had laid. I dare say the discomfort
of this knowledge weighed considerably
upon the old man's enfeebled spirits.
These letters of Pole's, with their monotonous
news of a monotonous life, were infinitely
mournful to me, and Clara's communications
by and by became, for various reasons, almost
as disquieting. One lies before me now, the
foreign letter paper discoloured at the folds
and edges, and the ink gray with old age.
I transcribe a part of it here, premising that
it reached me within a day or two after my
parting with Pole and my return to Paris.

The whole household,' Clara wrote, ' has
been so unhappy for the last few days that I
really have been unable to find the heart to
write to you. Mr. Delamere himself is
miserable enough, but for him I can only
have a very modified sort of pity. It is only
natural to suppose that he feels a great deal

disappointed, but he has dealt in nothing but
table eloquence all his life, and anything
which brings him a new subject for it seems
to be welcome, more or less. I am sick of
variations on the Vanity of Human Wishes,
played in the major key, played in the minor
key, played with both hands, played with one
hand tied up behind him. The man is
exasperating beyond endurance, and he treats
his daughter's nerves — I say nothing of mine,
because they don't matter, and he has no
great reason to consider them — as if they
were an instrument constructed for no other
earthly purpose than to show what tunes he
can play upon them. I have broken out
once about it to Mary, literally because I
could not help it, and have pained her so
much, poor thing, that I spent a whole night
in crying, and am a horrid, red-eyed spectre at
this moment, with a swollen nose. If he were
anybody but Mary's father I should say something
to him which would shake him out of his
hateful self-complacency for a day or two.

I suppose you know that Mr. Pole wrote
a letter relating your strange discovery in
Paris to Mr. Delamere. It came whilst we
were at the breakfast-table, and all in the
highest spirits. We had been out late the
night before, and were late at breakfast, the
letter coming by the second post. Mr. Delamere
s reception of it was really and seriously
tragic, and if he had not talked my sympathies
to sleep since then, and talked every
nerve of our minds into absolute rawness, I
should have still been sorry for him. As it
is, I should have left the house but for Mary.
The thing that weighs upon her mind most
of all is the silly fancy that it is sinful in her
to think of Mr. Pole now that she knows
that his wife is still alive, as if it were her
fault that that wicked and abominable plot
was made, or as if one could turn the whole
current of one's thoughts in an hour. She
does not say much, even to me, but she
suffers dreadfully. She has quite lost the
sense of taste, and I have read of that somewhere

as being a sign of mental suffering,
or at least as going with it very often,
especially In girls. I don't know why girls
especially should be made to suffer as they
are, but they really do seem to get the worst
of It.

Mr. Pole had given her a number of
beautiful presents, and one of the first things
she did after the news was to pack them all
up together to send back to him. Mr. Delamere
dropped the letter on the table when
he had read It, and blurted out the truth at
once, though one of the servants was In the
room. Mary went as white as a ghost, but
she said nothing at all, and when she went
up to her own room I had to help her. If
she had cried or given way at all I should
have liked it better, but she was so stony
about it that she really frightened me. She
began In a while to creep about the room
and gather the presents into a little heap.

I have had to stop writing, for it has
made me cry to think about It. I have been

VOL. II L

crying, off and on, for days past, and now
anything sets me going. Then sometimes at
the silliest thing in the world, I giggle until
I cry again for very shame at my own cruelty
and heartlessness. But I don't want to write
about Me, and Me gets into everything,
though I do try every hour to be more like
Mary. She is a downright angel. She
never thinks of herself, or talks of herself
at all. All her thought and care is to save
other people from sorrow and trouble, whilst,
as for me — but there is Me again. I would
tear up this sheet and begin a new one,
only that would be a sort of hypocrisy.
I shall leave it so that you may see what
I really am. I don't want to seen better
than I am but I want, oh I do want, to be
better.

I wouldn't tell anybody else these things
for the world, because they seem too sacred
to be talked about. But she kissed the
bracelets and the rings and the little watch
he gave her — she kissed everything as she

put it down on the dressing-table, and every
time she gave a pitiful little moan as if her
heart were breaking. And all the while she
never shed one tear. It was really awful
to look at her, and I had not the courage to
speak a word. I don't believe she knew
that I was there.

You won't think me flippant or unfeeling
for writing these things to yoic, darling. They
seem to be the measure of something I feel
inside myself, and that, I think, is the real
reason why I write them.'

I know that at the time I read a great
deal into this simple narrative which no other
reader could have found there, and I know
that, after this lapse of years, I still read into
it the knowledge of the generous, tender,
loyal little creature who penned the lines. I
am not in the least ashamed to own that I
cried in reading the lines my sweetheart had
cried over in writing. As for poor old Pole,
my heart used pretty constantly to ache about

him in those days. I have given up forming
lofty estimates of new acquaintances on insufficient
provocation, but I am glad to have
had a friend in youth whom I could scarcely
find a flaw in. It is a good thing for a lad
to have a human idol if he choose a strong
and honest nature for his worship, and though
I am writing of myself I have no fear in
proclaiming that this same youthful faculty
for hero-worship is as good and gracious a
sign in a young fellow as any I know how to
look for.

Things went on in a dull and uneventful
way for some months, until, as I have said
already, the winter was round upon us in
its course once more. I got then another
letter from Clara, which brought strange
news indeed. It was in searching for this
that I lighted upon the one I have just transcribed.
The first sentence of this new
letter struck me like a blow. The very place
from which it was dated had an unfamiliar
look to me.

Grantley Holme, Cheshire.

My dear John, — The Delamere household
has broken up, after the strangest and
most unexpected scenes, and mamma has
taken me to the house of my uncle, Major
Grantley. You have often heard me speak
of him. For quite a month it was evident
that there was something in the air. I was
unable to guess its meaning, but I saw it
and felt it constantly. First of all there was
some trouble between Mr. Delamere and
Mary. She had resolved to join a sisterhood
belonging to the Church of St. Mildred.
She often spoke to me about it, and I
thought it on many grounds a very excellent
idea. It is one of those common - sense,
good sisterhoods where the sisters devote
themselves simply to nursing the sick poor,
and generally helping the poor to be good
and happy. She spoke about her wish to
Mr. Delamere, but he made such eyebrows
over it, and became so very wordy about the
Degradation of the Social Ideal by Contact

with Common Things, that she relinquished
her own ideal at once, as she always did
if that grand Sultan did not immediately and
entirely approve of it. I am sure the work
would have done her good, and would have
given her an object in life. I believe the
great Turk's main objection was to the
costume, though I am sure that Mary would
look perfection in it, and the white, though
it would be a shame to hide such beautiful
hair as hers, would put a little colour into
her pale complexion, by contrast. To hear
Mr. Delamere talk about art and costume,
you would think that at least he would have
been able to understand that. I am not
trivial, as you think I am. I am only
showing you what a hollow mockery Mr.
Delamere is, even where he is supposed to
know something.

Mary gave up the idea, and instead of
going out and getting new interests in life,
and gladdening the hearts of the poor, and
doing good to hundreds with her sweet ways,

she had to stop and mope at home under the
ceaseless cataract of aesthetic and philosophical
chatter from the Turk. Oh, I am glad
to be away from it, and to know that Mary
is away from it.

But I have something more serious than
all this to write about. The servants grew
actually impertinent, and once when Mr.
Delamere ordered the cook upstairs to complain
of something in his majestic way, the
woman jeered at him, quite openly. I expected
the dining-room floor to open and
let her down into the basement, but it did
nothing of the kind. Mr. Delamere at once
gave her a month's notice, and the cook said,
'' Give me my money for the last six months,
and I'll go this instant minute."

"You shall have a cheque at once," said
Mr. Delamere, but the cook snapped her
fingers at him, and put her hands upon her
hips. I had no idea that she could be so impolite
and vulgar, for I had always thought
her a rather superior woman for her station.

'you'd better send it to the bank and
have it cashed first," she said. *' I don't
want a two-mile walk through the mud for
nothing."

Mr. Delamere ordered her from the
room, and she went away, declaring that she
would have her money or her money's worth
before she left the house, even if she had
to take it out of him. I suppose she meant
to say that she would rob him.

Mr. Jones was present at this dreadful
exposure, and — would you believe it? — he has
not once been near the house since then. I
am very glad to learn from mamma that it
was arranged between herself and Mr. Delamere
all along that my maintenance should
be paid for. She says that the arrangement
was on a very liberal scale, and as mamma
is not stingy in such matters, I have the
satisfaction of knowing that I was a help
rather than a burden to the household in
that respect.

Very soon after this I began to see a

dreadful man about the house, and I did not
at all understand who he could be. I think
he lived downstairs, but he was very often
in the hall, looking strangely suspicious, as
if he thought that I had something about me
that did not belong to me. He called Mr.
Delamere "Governor," and at first I thought
he might be a humble member of the ]\Ioral
Tone Association. ]\Iamma, however, says
that he must have been a bailiff — and a
bailiff is an officer of the law, though I am
sure he did not look like one. I always
thought that his clothes looked as if they
must have been drowned at one time in their
history', his hat and boots particularly. The
servants were more impertinent and inattentive
than ever during this man's presence
in the house, and i\Ir. Delamere was so depressed
that he did not even lecture. Mary
was unwell at the time the man came, and
did not see him until the morning he went
away.

Mr. Delamere spent every hour of the

day, except from dinner-time onwards, out of
the house, and spoke in the morning very
hopefully of having business in the city.
He came home at night much downcast, and
sat a long while alone in the dining-room
after dinner.

When Mary recovered from her cold and
came downstairs I was with her, and she
saw the man in the hall. She asked him
what he wanted, and the man seemed
abashed, and scraped his feet on the oilcloth.
Mr. Delamere came out of the diningroom
and told him that he had better go
downstairs. Mary was frightened, and I am
quite sure that she understood the meaning
of the man's presence. Up to this time
I did not. But when I saw her so alarmed
it unhinged my own nerves a little. After
breakfast, which passed off very silently and
sadly, Mr. Delamere said that he wished
to speak to Mary alone. I went into the
library and stayed there, reading all the
morning. Mr. Delamere went out, and

shortly afterwards the postman came. The
parlour-maid came into the library without
knocking, and threw a letter on to the table so
unceremoniously that it skimmed right over
the smooth leather and fell on the side I was
sitting, at my feet. The girl bounced out
and slammed the door behind her, making a
sort of defiant inarticulate noise as she went.
I should describe it as a snort. You can
have no conception of the extreme discourtesy
of all the servants at this time.

Well, I picked up the letter, and in
doing that it turned out that I was the innocent
cause of all the unpleasantness which
followed. I am quite certain now that if I
had known what was going to happen I
should have been justified in doing what I
really did in ignorance, and I think that
when you come to know everything you will
applaud Mary's conduct as highly as I do.
I saw at once that the letter came from Mr.
Pole. Nobody who has ever seen that pike-ands
sabre handwriting of his, with those

dogged-looking crosses to the t's, could ever
mistake it for any one else's. It was addressed
to Mr. Delamere from Worborough
Court, for I saw the seal and the postmark.
I went back to my reading and tried to think
no more about it, though I wondered very
much what it contained.

When Mr. Delamere came home again
only an hour later, he looked really wretched,
and, in spite of my dislike, I could not help
feeling sorry for him. I showed him the
letter, and at the sight of it his face
changed in a startling way. He was so
agitated that he could scarcely open the
envelope. He went to the window to read
the letter and came back radiant. I never
saw so great and rapid a change in a face.
He ran out of the room and down the hall,
and in a second or two I heard the hall-door
open and close noisily behind him.

Then came my real indiscretion. I amas
glad of it as I should be if I had known
everything. In fact I am a great deal more

glad, for I am almost certain that I should
not have had the courage to do my duty. I
ran upstairs to INIary, and I hugged and
kissed her, and danced about her like a mad
thing, until she insisted on knowing what
had changed me so. Then I told her what
had happened, and you may guess my surprise
when she took it all gravely and
solemnly, and seemed even to be made more
sad and thoughtful by it. We had luncheon
by ourselves, or rather we sat down to it, for
I don't think anything was eaten, and, an
hour later, Mr. Delamere came in, smiling
all over, and as majestically condescending
as ever. For quite a long time he had fallen
from his old magnificent manner, and had
been going about as if somebody had suddenly
convinced him that he was an ordinary
person. His clothes seemed to have
changed. I can hardly describe to you the
difference there was in him. He had not been
in the house five minutes when the humble
member of the Moral Tone association went

away by the area steps. Mamma conjectures
that he was dismissed, paid. Shortly
afterwards Mr. Delamere held a conclave
with the servants, who were all beautifully
admonished, and also paid.

'While this was going on in the library
Mary and I were in the diningroom. She
was more agitated than I had ever seen her
during the whole of her troubles, and once
or twice she clutched me nervously, and I
could feel that she was trembling all over.
I did not understand what was going on in
the next room until later, but Mary evidently
understood it all. About five minutes after
the servants had gone down she got up
trembling, and went out of the room. I
could hear her voice and Mr. Delamere's,
and I could tell that he was angry. That
mellow voice of his can grow very sharp and
sour, it seems, and he soared into as high a
treble as an angry woman's.

I sat in the diningroom, and felt more
and more uncomfortable whilst he scolded ;

and I grew so angry at the tone he took,
though I could not hear the words, that I
was actually fighting against a temptation to
ofo in between them, when Mary came into
the diningroom, and her father followed
her. His face was red with anger, and he
was puffing from having talked so much and
so rapidly. I think that of the two Mary
was the more angry, and she looked at her
father when he spoke with an expression
which surprised me, it was so full of scorn.
He went striding up and down the room,
stopping every now and again in a jerky
and undignified way to tell her that she
was ungrateful, or that he stood amazed.
You know his phrase; he always 'stands
amazed" when people differ from him in
opinion. He has been standing amazed
more or less ever since I have known him.
But he was too ano^rv to be smooth and
lordly about it, as he generally is.

At last he said, growing more and more
angry because she would not answer him.

And you pretend to feel humiliated ? You ?
I accepted the humiliation for your sake.
Do you suppose it has cost me nothing to
subdue my pride and ask a favour at this
man's hands .'^" Mary had taken up a newspaper
which lay upon the table, and was
making a pretence to read it, when Mr.
Delamere actually snatched it from her
hands. '' Listen to me," he said ; '' I will
not endure these airs of disrespect." Mary
looked at him, and said quite quietly that
there was nothing more to speak of between
them, and that they did not understand each
other. Then she left the room, and he
positively made a dash at the door to stop
her. But I stood between them, and he
stood so very much amazed to see me assert
myself in that way that he stopped stock still
and allowed her to go.

Of course I understood everything by
this time. Mr. Delamere had been borrowing
money from Mr. Pole. Can you imagine
anything like it under the circumstances ?

And now I have told you everything
except the close of the whole business, and
that, I think, I told you at the beginning of
my letter. Mary sent for me, and told me
that she was compelled to leave home. She
said nothing about the cause, and of course,
knowing what I did, I could not venture to
ask her any questions. She asked me to
wire to mamma at once. I did so, and
mamma came up to town next morning ina
state of great astonishment, and took me
away. She begged Mary to accompany us,
but it was of no use to try to persuade her.
She said she had plans of her own. What
they are I do not know, but she has a little
fortune of her own, which belonged to her
mother, and brings her in not more than a
hundred pounds a year, poor thing. I am
certain that out of this she means to pay back
to Mr. Pole the money her father borrowed
from him. Then I think she will join the
sisterhood, but that will be a very different
affair for her now, especially if Mr. Pole's

VOL. II M

loan was a large one, and she has to impoverish
herself to pay it.

I have told mamma what I am going to
write down now. She says it is a most indelicate
and unladylike proposition for a girl
to make, and that I have no right to allude to
such things. But if other people care to be
so exquisite about their own delicacy, when
they can do good by sacrificing a little of it, I
dont. The proposition, my dear John, is
this. You are to work your very best and
hardest, and to get as soon as possible into a
position to make a home of your own. Then
I suppose you will marry a certain undeserving
young person whom you profess to be
very, very much attached to ; that young
person will have her own money, and be
quite rich when she is married, and she and
you will make the darlings and best girl
in the world come and live with us. That
doesn't sound quite grammatical, but I think
it says what I mean. The Grand Turk may
think what he pleases, and may shower his

cataracts of drizzle on anybody he can find.
Think of Mary Delamere, of all girls in the
world, living on bread bought with borrowed
money, and that money belonging to Mr.
Pole ! '

Then came certain lines which concern
myself alone, and then, in a hastily-written
postscript, followed this : —

I was on the point of sending this to the
post, when mamma came in with the news
of poor old Lord Worborough's death. She
had found it in The Ties, where there was
a short article about his career. We had all
looked at the paper, and none of us had
noticed it until then. So now Mr. Pole is
Lord Worborough, and a millionaire, and the
owner of I don't know how many thousands
of acres. Poor young man ! I am afraid
that neither his title nor his millions will
make him very happy.'

A DAY or two after the receipt of this
Intelligence came a black-edged letter from
Pole, dated from Worborough Court, the
envelope and letter - paper marked • with a
coronet. It simply repeated the news with
which everybody had now grown familiar,
and gave no hint of its writer's future intentions.
There I am wrong. One clear
hint it gave, in what I thought a very
friendly and pleasing fashion. The brief
epistle was signed ' Walter ' ; and I understood
from this that, though Pole no longer
had a use for his old familiar name, he was
indisposed to fall upon me with the unfamiliar
title, which must needs have stared
at me rather forlornly from the paper. It is

rather hard to become suddenly rich and
distinguished, and to retain one's poor and
undistinguished friends. They are Hkely to
be on the look-out for airs of coldness, and
will be ready to read signs of hauteur everywhere.
So the wealthy and ennobled has, if
he wants to retain their friendship, to bea
little warmer, a little more intimate and
friendly, than of old.

After a lapse of two or three weeks my
old friend came unexpectedly to Paris, and
found me out there. I had changed my
quarters, and had taken a pair of rooms in
the Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, in which,
at the house of dead-and-gone M. Terre,
Thackeray ate his bouillabaisse and drank
the famous Burgundy 'with yellow seal.' I
took my coffee there of a morning, and dined
upon the streets, as the cheerless, unhomelike,
and most aptly descriptive phrase expresses
it. Pole — I can find no other name for him,
except for the back of an envelope or in
conversation with others, unto this day — was

of course in mourning, and looked somehow
statelier than of old, as if his responsibilities
had laid a hand upon his shoulder. He was
as far from taking airs as it is easily conceivable
that a man should be, but his new
position marked him, to my mind, though
in a way not easily definable. His face
brightened delightfully as I jumped up to
meet him, and he shook hands with great
cordiality. The animation of his manner
did not last, however, and when we had
settled down into talk I saw that his face
was careworn, and so colourless as even to
look unhealthy.

When we had chatted for half an hour or
so he fell into a little quiet, and, as I guessed,
was rather gravely turning over some speculation
in his mind.

I've been in Cheshire,' he said, looking
up at me suddenly. * There's some land
there which the poor old man wanted to buy
for sentimental reasons. I called at Grantley
Holme. Do you know of such a place ? '

I answered that I was aware of its existence,
and he smiled. His smile had always
been a pleasant thing to see, but now that
his face had fallen to so settled an expression
of melancholy, it was brighter than ever : a
transient gleam of sunshine breaking through
dark clouds.

'I had a talk,' he went on, 'with Mrs.
Grantley, in the course of which your name
was mentioned. She made a little pretence
at first of regret for your engagement, but
she soon threw that up, and began to show
that she was quite proud of you. The book's
a hit, Jack, and deserves to be. I saw a
couple of columns in The Times about it, and
I'm told there is to be an article in The
Quarterly. But that's all apart from what I
was going to say. I had a talk not only
with the old lady, but with the young one ;
about that ' — he threw a letter on the table.
—read it.'

I took the letter, a business-looking document,
and found that it was addressed to

Lord Worborough by a firm of London
solicitors. They desired to know the amount
in which Mr. Delamere stood indebted to his
lordship, and stated that they were instructed
to pay it without delay.

I shouldn't show you this he went on,
'if I had not had that talk with Miss
Grantley. She was in the house when Miss
Delamere left it, and she confessed to me
that she had told you the whole history.'

I found Clara's letter, and read it aloud to
him, with certain omissions, and he listened
calmly and attentively.

'Well now,' he said, 'since you know
all this, I suppose you can guess pretty
clearly at whose instigation that letter was
written ? '

I answered that it was evidently written
at the instigation of Miss Delamere.

He tried to speak of her as he would have
spoken of anybody who was indifferent to
him, and was so far successful that a stranger
would have noticed nothing.

Yes,' he said, ' it was written at the instigation
of Miss Delamere. I felt myself
justified in making inquiries, and I have
learned that she has three thousand in the
three per cents. She and her trustee are
empowered to use this if they act jointly.
The trustee is Robert Foljambe, a cousin of
her mother's. He has three or four times
refused, even at Miss Delamere's urging, to
put this money under her father's control. I
have been to see him since I received this
letter. I was with him, in fact, the day
before yesterday. He wants to refund what
Delamere borrowed, and I told him that for
the time being, until I could take advice
about it, I should decline to give him any
particulars.'

How much,' I asked, 'did Delamere
borrow ? Don't answer me unless you meant
to tell me.'

I meant to tell you,' Pole answered,
because the amount happens to be the vital
part of the whole affair. He borrowed just

three thousand pounds. If it had not been
for Lord Worborough s death it would have
crippled me to lend it. I did not and I
could not count on that, but I got the
money, and I let him have it.'

And what did you think of him ? ' I
asked.

'Oh,' he replied, *it would take a good
deal to change my opinion of Mr. Delamere.
Foljambe,' he added, ' is as honourable a
man as you can find, but he's as poor as a
rat, and has seven children, all girls. If he
could, I believe he would pay the money for
Miss Delamere's sake, but that's out of the
question. Now, I want your advice in the
matter. What am I to do '^. '

I dare say there are people to whom this
may appear a very simple problem, but I
found it one of the utmost difficulty. It
seemed, on the one hand, that it would bean
altogether shameful and brutal thing on
the part of a millionaire, under any pressure
in the world, to take the last penny of the

woman he loved. Put in that way, the
thing looked preposterous and incredible. It
was unthinkable, impossible. It was out of
the question. Then, on the other hand,
Mary Delamere was smarting under as bitter
a humiliation as a woman of high spirit could
be called upon to endure. To her, I could
see plainly, it would be ten times more terrible
to face Pole's refusal of the money than
to endure the poverty its payment would
entail upon her. She would carr' the sting
of that humiliation always, unless her offer
were accepted. It looked impossible that a
high-minded man should insult her by its
refusal. The old Greeks, who were fond of
foolish puzzles, had one which posed this
question : — When the irresistible meets the
impregnable, what happens.'^ It is easy
enough to respond that the irresistible ceases
to be irresistible when it meets the impregnable,
and that the impregnable ceases to bethe
impregnable when assaulted by the irresistible.
But here, for once in my life's

history, I seemed to be set in sight of the
two, and was Hkely, I began to think, to
have a bad time of it between them. How
should I counsel Pole to insult the one
creature he held most dear in the world ?
How could I counsel him to reduce her to
poverty ?

I got an inspiration on a sudden, and
thought I saw a way of evading the
difficulty.

Clearly,' I said, ' you can't take the
money, and clearly, you have actually got to
take it.'

That is a brutal exhibition of the actual
facts,' said Pole. ' I have seen those two
contradictory positives staring me in the
face ever since I got this letter.'

Very well,' I said, 'you must do neither,
and do both. Delamere is not a very lofty
person, and he will be glad to exchange his
daughter's contempt for his own. As I
judge him, he won't greatly mind despising
himself, and will very strongly object to

any other living creature taking the same
Hne.'

'My judgment goes with yours,' Pole
answered. ' What do you propose to do ? '

Imprimis, you don't want the money ?
It can make no difference in the world to
you to have or not to have it.'

No difference in the world.'

'Well,' I continued, feeling vicariously
ashamed for the specious piece of meanness
I was plotting for another man's performance,
' Delamere cannot in all probability
have spent the whole of the sum he borrowed.
Give him your cheque for a thousand
pounds. Make him draw a cheque
payable to you for the same amount against
it. Let him forward that to Miss Delamere
with instructions to send it on to you
through her lawyers. Then in three months*
time send him five hundred to be employed
in the same way, and so on until the whole
debt is paid. It's a fraud, but it's a pious
fraud, and, so far as I see, it's the only way

out of the difficulty. You can complete your
share of it by writing to the lawyers and
saying that the debt is in rapid process of
repayment, and can leave Delamere to such
gentlemanly, dignified, and high-spirited
flourishes as his nature craves

Denham ! ' cried Pole, * you are a rogue
of genius. What might you have done if
you had devoted that splendid intelligence
for fraud to the purpose for which it was
bestowed upon you?' He had brightened
at my plan, but his face fell suddenly.

What is it ? ' I asked him.

'You have forgotten one thing,' he returned.
'The good man earns no money.
He toils not, neither does he spin. If we
excite Miss Delamere's suspicions the fraud
is useless.'

He must be made to spin,' I answered.
He is a great draw as a lecturer. Let him
lecture to his soul's content. He will
flourish about that too, and perhaps be able
to restore Miss Delamere's good opinion of

him — though that would be a fraud with a
vengeance.'

She would be the happier for it,' Pole
said, with a reflective melancholy in his
voice. ' She would be the happier for it.
She has need of somebody to believe in. I
think I can manage Delamere,' he continued.
Of course he'll pretend that he's going to
pay me afterwards, and if he likes to salve
his conscience that way I can make no
objection. Of course it wasn't \^ry lofty in
him to want to borrow the money from me,
and I wish he could have kept it from Miss
Delamere's knowledge. We must do our
best to rehabilitate him in her eyes.'

In this manner our plan was laid, and
though I have had more than a score of
years in which to reflect upon it, I cannot
say that I have even yet arrived at any
definite conclusions about its moral aspect
so far as we two were concerned. Pole, who
was staying at Maurice's Hotel, asked me to
go there and dine with him, and since it was

a Saturday, and therefore a journalistic
holiday, I consented. After dinner we concocted
a letter to Delamere, setting the facts
of the case before him with a frankness
which I fancied he was likely to find distasteful.
This done, Pole wrote a short
letter to the lawyers, saying simply that the
amount of Mr. Delameress indebtedness to
him was three thousand pounds, adding that
he thoroughly appreciated the motives which
dictated the inquiry, and that he sincerely
hoped that no action whatever would result
from his response to it. The letter to
Delamere enclosed a cheque for a thousand
pounds.

Thackeray has accustomed everybody
with the slightest turn for self-examination
to an irritating, tolerably constant inquiry as
to whether he is, or is not, a snob. Was I
ever so little of a snob, I wonder, when I
caught myself admiring the pike-and-sabre
signature and the bluntly-written 'One
thousand pounds,' and did I, or did I not.

feel a British flush of pride in the reflection
that my closest friend was a peer of the
realm and a millionaire ? I know I can
honestly say that I valued Pole himself neither
less nor more because of these qualifications.
But if I had a mind to be honest I might
plead guilty to a little better appreciation of
myself because of them. I can blush now to
remember what I thought about what the
waiters might think about me, when I dined
in such Intimacy of companionship with the
wealthy Lord Worborough. But I was
hardly five-and-twenty, and I can find excuses
for myself.

After dinner we drew up our chairs beside
the log fire and had a long and unrestrained
talk. There was a hard black frost upon
the ground without, and a high wind was
blowing, so that there was comfort in the
very sputtering of the wood, and the warm
glow was grateful. I asked what news there
was of his wife, and he told me simply that
he had taken matters Into his own hands.

VOL. II N

He had written to her at the address Goldsmith
had given, telling her that her plot
had been discovered, and that hereafter, in
order to keep her within his knowledge, he
should send her allowance in a weekly
cheque. He had placed no control upon her
movements, but had left her to choose what
habitat she pleased. As for Goldsmith,
Pole had left that worthy to digest his own .
reflections, and make what he could of his
losses. The little Jew had maintained his
fellow-conspirator from the time of her supposed
death until the date of her discovery,
and was probably some hundred and fifty
pounds out of pocket as the result of his
nefarious scheme.

I don't think it likely,' said Pole, * that
he will proceed either against my wife or me
for the recovery of the money.' He added
that he had received no word of answer, but
that the cheques had been presented, and
bore his wife's signature. 'And now. Jack,'
he went on, ' I have something to say that

concerns you personally. Poor old Marlborough
took a prodigious liking to you,
and he and I talked about you a good deal
in the last month or two of his lifetime. He
stood very high with his party, and had
considerable influence. He proposed to me
that he should use it in your behalf, and
before he died he had got things in train.
In four months' time an appointment will be
open for your acceptance. If you don't care
to take it you can have a second choice a
month later. Number one is a sinecure, or
thereabouts. It will bring you in fifteen
hundred pounds a year, confine you to
London whilst Parliament is sitting, bring
you a pension after sixteen years of do Ice far
niente, and it opens up no avenue to distinction.
Number two takes half the salary and,
say roughly, a thousand times the labour.
It opens the way to almost any ambition.
There's no political difference to hold you
back, and you can have which you please.'
I thanked him warmly, and told him, what

I knew very well, that though he charged
the old lord with these benevolent intentions
towards myself, it was he who had inspired
them.

'Well,' he said, with one of his rare,
bright smiles, ' I didn't let the fire go out
for want of fuel. Which do you go for, the
fifteen hundred with nothing to do, or the
hard work and the eight hundred ? Don't
be in a hurry to play Quixote, Jack. If you
were a fiery young politician eager for a
chance you might be tempted by the smaller
salary and the wider field of ambition. If
you choose that, you will have little time for
literary labours, and by and by, in all probability,
you'll get rapt away from them
altogether. In the other case you have a
chance that falls to few men of following
your own bent and doing your own work in
the world.'

That was a very delightful prospect, and
the bait looked tempting, but I recalled
certain burning prose passages of my own

which, to my Infinite pride and delight, had
found their way into the columns of the
Raleigh Weekly Banner some half-dozen
years before. In these early effusions I had
been most savagely satirical and denunciatory
about the wicked and contemptible
idlers who fattened on the life-blood of the
starving poor. I had been amazingly in
earnest. One gets amazingly in earnest at
the age of eighteen or nineteen, and wonders
later in life at the pother one made in those
enthusiastic days, and the sound and fury.
I told Pole, with an ingenious blush, of the
attitude I had taken with regard to this
question.

'Well, my boy,' he answered, 'your past
deeds may rise against you, and some future
demagogue In his first pair of trousers may
scathe you by a reproduction of your own
fervour in the columns of that same journal.
It has a world-wide circulation, I believe.'

I answered that It might be world-wide
for all I knew, but that the circulation in

my day was limited to some two hundred
copies.

'In that case,' Pole responded, 'the inhabitants
of the whole planet may not
yet be infected with these radical notions.
Slip into the berth, Denham, and be
snug there before the storm evoked by
your own utterances shall burst upon your
head.'

I wanted time and chance to think. I
had no taste or liking for active politics, and
I had a conscientious objection to the acceptance
of public money without an equivalent
being given for it. I was conscious that this
objection had lost greatly in force within the
last half-hour. I began to feel that if another
man had accepted that tempting sinecure I
should have been very mild in my condemnation
of him. I even began to think that
if the imaginary other man had great ideas
boiling in his head which for want of time
and ease would be lost to the world, he would
be, after a fashion, criminal in refusing the

position. The acceptance of a sinecure grew
infinitely less objectionable in aspect than it
had ever seemed before.

I can see where your thoughts are travelling,'
said Pole, evincing less penetration than
he commonly displayed. ' Don't be foolish,
Denham. Take the chance that comes to
you, and accept things as they are. The
world is very much out of joint, I dare say,
but the cursed spite, as Hamlet calls it, only
comes in when the man who wasn't made for
any such adventure thinks that he was born
to set it right. There the post stands, waiting
to be filled. Somebody will have it, as
like as not a fellow infinitely less worthy than
yourself. Nobody will get it as the reward
of private merit or public virtue ; and in
plain English, if my advice has any weight
with you, you're an ass if you throw it over.
Take it, and marry your sweetheart, and
settle down and write your books in comfort.
You think you'd be doing more of
your duty if you took the worse berth of the

two ? Vain dog ! What will your political
efforts do for the country ? Some fellow
made for the rough-and-tumble of politics
will take it and make it a stepping-stone to
fortune, and have a baronetcy. You're not
cut out for that kind of life. Come, the
berth's going, going, going '

Gone ! ' I said.

If I had any conscientious qualms about
that sinecure after this acceptance of it, I
smothered them as remorselessly as the
wicked Richard smothered the tender little
innocents in the Tower. I dare say other
men have had similar scruples on like occasions,
and have prescribed just the same
murderous remedy for their own disquiet.
There are men in the world who would have
risen in hot indignation against such a proposal
as I accepted. I have heard them say
so. I have a sort of memory that I said
something to that effect myself in the
columns of the Raleigh Weekly Partner.
I am not the hero of this narrative, and even

if my acceptance of the position offered tome
were unheroic, I came down on to the
plain, level highway of life into excellent
company, and found quite a crowd of good
fellows there before me.

I LOST but little time in letting my English
chief know of the surprising good fortune
which, by Pole's kindness, had overtaken
me, and I soon found myself liberated from
my post in Paris. Macllray, I am inclined
to think, regarded me with a kind of awe
from the moment at which I announced to
him the news of my social advancement.
When one day Lord Worborough's black-edged
visiting-card found its way to those
lofty offices in the Rue de la Paix, the good
Scot retired to a little apartment of his own,
and there furbished himself with hair brushes
and clothes brush, and then returning, possessed
himself of a pair of gloves. He had
evidently an idea of putting them on in order

to receive a peer of his native realm in befitting
state, but Pole entering before he
could put this purpose into execution he
stowed them away in his coat-tail pockets,
and offered his congratulations on the nobleman's
accession to wealth and title with an
almost hysteric alacrity and effusion. Awaking
to the fact that Pole had not come upstairs
on horseback, was accompanied by no
herald bearing a coat-of- arms, and was, in
fact, in no way changed from the rather sad-mannered,
simple gentleman he knew already,
he grew more sober in demeanour.

I had a kind of fear upon me,' he told
me afterwards, ' that the lad would be transmogrified
out of knowledge, and he's not the
least bit altered. Ahem thinking' that ef any
magical poor laid a hold upon me and made
a millionaire and a hoard o' me, I'd just be a
spectacle for goads and men. I'll be thankful
to them to leave me in my native obscurity.
I'm best where I am.'

He showed a tendency to alter his demeanour

towards myself, and falling short
after this speech into one of his accustomed
reveries, and emerging from it with his customary
' Ay, ay ! ' he checked himself at the
habitual Mad,' and substituted for it 'Mr.
Denham.' I laughed at first, but I soon
found out that Macllray meant no more by
this than to intimate that if I were not prepared
under my own changed conditions to
continue on the old familiar terms, he was
prepared to abandon them. I do not suppose
for a moment that he formulated this to
himself, but he felt it all the same and acted
upon it, until his Scottish sense of independence
was assuaged by the certainty that no
overwhelming sense of my own grandeur had
run away with me.

When I finally bade good-bye to my Paris
duties he was extremely warm and friendly.

Ye're a very fine, unaffected pair o' lads,
the both o' ye,' he said. ' I'm not looking
forward to a dwelling in the tents of princes
for my own part, nor to set down with the

great ones o' the alrth. I'd be clean spoiled
if I had a notion of it, I know very well that
I would. And you two, that are younger in
the world's ways than I am, are just as
natural as death, though ye stand there withall
your blushing honours thick upon ye.'

As a matter of fact, I had no mean inward
idea of the worldly importance which the
possession of that wicked sinecure would
confer upon me ; and if I did not crow about
it, it was only because I was restrained by
the fact that the post was gained by no merit
of my own.

I say I had lost no time in conveying
information to my chief, but there was one
person to whom I wrote even earlier. I had
no sooner left Pole on that memorable, unforgettable
evening than I fell to work to construct
the terms of a letter to Mrs. Grantley.
I rehearsed the letter all the way home, and
wrote it immediately on reaching my chambers.
Before I could get away from Paris,
or my successor was appointed, I received

a letter of congratulation from mamma, who
withdrew all objection to my suit, and assured
me that she had never entertained any but
such as were prompted by the consideration
of my youth and the limited character of my
worldly prospects. She exhorted me to new
efforts in my new calling, and seemed to
think that I had undertaken what might have
been an eighth labour for Hercules.

My first business, was to see the chief of
my department, to whom I carried a letter of
introduction from Pole. He was a genial
old gentleman with a courtesy title, and he
had been a life-long friend of the late Lord
Worborough. He was very kind in his
manner, and he talked about my duties,
which were to be within reach of two subordinate
personages between the hours of
eleven and three for five days in the week
and six months of the year. The duties of
these subordinates were to be within reach of
their subordinates from ten till four. My
chiefs duty was, in an easy-minded and unsettled

way, to be in reach of me. I praise
the bridge that carried me over. It was a
pleasant office, and, mockery apart, there was
just enough work to do in it to prevent one
from feeling like an actual impostor. I
learned this afterwards, but for the moment
my one desire was to get down to Grantley
Holme and claim Clara. We corresponded
every day. We wrote reams of letters, but
the consolations of the post are but a poor
substitute for the actual presence of your
sweetheart, and I made all possible haste to
join her.

I went down to Cheshire, and came back
in a day or two, accompanied by Mrs. Grantley
and the Major, a soldierly and gallant
gentleman, and Clara. The three took up
their abode at an hotel, and I lived in Pole's
chambers. We spent days in house-hunting,
and having found a perfect little jewel of an
establishment, we spent weeks, and very
happy weeks they were, in the search and
purchase of furniture. Both Clara and I

were resolved not to give ourselves into the
hands of the demon upholsterer, and, with
due regard to the sentiments of mamma, who
had excellent taste, we pleased ourselves in
the decoration of our home.

It had been decided that our marriage
should take place when the house was ready.
There were one or two good reasons for this
despatch, and there was nothing whatever to
be urged against it. Naturally enough, I
was eager for it, and I urged with some tact,
as I flattered myself, that my duties would
begin in three months' time, and I should
have no chance of a honeymoon for at least
six months further. Why not utilise the time
now in hand ?

You give me credit for no motherly
desire to retain my daughter,' said Mrs.
Grantley.

I said nothing of the fact that my charming
future mother-in-law had already managed
to live without her daughter for a full year
and a half, but Clara supplied the omission.

The conflicts of mother and daughter amused
me often, but I had sense enough to avoid
participation in them, and they always said
the keenest and plainest things to each other,
with an amiable good-humour and mutual
understanding.

The Major had hired a carriage, and one
day we all drove eastward to the Strand.
At the top of one of the riverward-running
streets the carriage halted.

*We will call for you in half an hour,'
said Mrs. Grantley; and Clara, tapping my
hand with a gloved forefinger, motioned tome
to alight. I rose to obey, but I suppose
I looked inquiry, for Mrs. Grantley demanded
to know if I had not been told where I was
wanted to go.

Not yet,' said Clara, and the word being
given to the coachman, the carriage rolled
away. Clara passed a hand through my
arm, and led me down the street, towards
the river.

'We are going to see Mary Delamere,'

VOL. II o

she said. ' I have been here three times
already. Your duty, if you please, is to act
like a good fiancd, and second all my proposals.'


I promised that I would do so, not being
greatly in the dark as to what they were
likely to be. The street was not inviting to
look at. It wore an air of middle-class respectability
grown sordid, and no house-painter
seemed to have visited it for half a
generation. But behold, on a sudden there
gleamed upon us a house of mellow newness,
with the neatest and whitest of curtains
and blinds, and door knob and knocker of
burnished brass, so refulgent with constant
polish that they might have been taken for
gold. The snowy doorsteps cried aloud with
a voice of reproach to the whole neighbourhood.
I rapped, with the highly-polished
little brass knocker, at Clara's bidding, and
in a minute, with a smiling, rosy-checked
alacrity, a girl of eighteen, or thereabouts,
in the costume of a religieuse, opened the

door. She greeted Clara pleasantly, as if
they were already known to each other, but
regarded me somewhat shyly and doubtfully,
as if the intrusion of the male element were a
thing unheard of in her experience of the
place, and not to be too kindly looked upon
as an experiment. Clara asked for Sister
Constance, and the small nun-like personage
led us into a fresh-looking, sparely-furnished
apartment of infinite order and cleanliness.

Who is Sister Constance ?' I asked, when
we were left alone here for a while.

'Sister Constance,' Clara answered, 'is
Mary Constance Delamere.'

I asked, in some consternation, if she had
taken the veil, but a smiling shake of the
head was the only answer I received, for at
that moment a large and motherly woman in
conventual garb sailed into the room like a
breeze. She also was known to Clara, and
exchanged friendly greetings with her.

'Sister Constance,' she said, 'will be herein
a moment or two.'

She invited us to be seated, and said
something about the weather, so brightly
and breezily that the air of the room seemed
the fresher for it. Mary Delamere came in
almost directly, and submitted to be hugged
and kissed by Clara, who received her with
a voluble and tender vehemence, whilst the
elder lady looked on smiling. I had had a
sort of general notion that all human emotions,
except for a kind of tranquil, cold pity
for human troubles in general, were left out
of doors ; but the elderly lady smiled as if she
were well pleased, and Sister Constance endured
and returned the caresses lavished
upon her in precisely her old manner. If it
is not profane to say it, the garb of this
harmless and helpful society became her
very much indeed. Her pale looks were
warmed a little by their neighbourhood with
the contrasting black and white. She greeted
me in a friendly fashion, and we all four sat
down to talk together.

'The Sister Superior,' said Clara glibly,

indicating the elderly lady by a little bow,
knows already why we are here, and will
have no objection to the proposal I am going
to make. Mr. Denham is also aware of it,
and has adopted it with the enthusiasm
which might have been expected from him.
We shall be at home and settled down in
eight weeks' time.' She blushed at this,
delightfully to my thinking, and Sister Constance
and the Sister Superior smiled like an
average brace of ladies well pleased, and
looked no more like their costume than a
country June like a London November.
You can carry on your good work, ' Clara
continued, * without let or hindrance. Mr.
Denham knows all about the London poor.
He is quite an authority now about their
condition, and he can tell you that there are
crowds of them in our neighbourhood, and
that there is hardly anybody to look after
them. You will be able to work amongst
them, and so far as my own duties will allow
me ' — she was more matronly here than her

own mother — ' I shall be charmed to take a
part in your work. Besides that, John will
be engaged in his new duties. Mr. Denham,'
she explained to the Sister Superior, ' has
accepted an appointment under Government
from eleven to three. That is to say,
that from half-past ten to half past three
I shall be alone, and I want to know what
I am to do with all those dreary hours
if you won't come and help me to pass
them profitably. There are some people,'
she addressed the Superior once more,
'who might perhaps tell you that I am
frivolous. I shall always deny that. But
even if it were true, it would only be an
additional argument why Mary should come
to me.'

We think your offer very generous and
affectionate,' said the Superior in her own
crisp yet motherly fashion ; * and for my
part I like you very much for it, my dear.
It remains for Sister Constance herself to
decide.'

I shan't, I can't, and I won't be happy
without her,' said Clara. ' If Mr. Denham
will speak his mind he will say precisely
what I do.'

I spoke my mind warmly, and said with
truth that I should be sincerely grateful to
Miss Delamere if she would do what Clara
asked her. The ' Sister Constance ' stuck
somehow on my tongue, and I could not rid
myself of a slight but irreverent impatience
of It. The elderly lady looked towards her,
awaiting her decision.

'You know, dear,' Mary began, 'that if I
refuse, it is not because '

But you shall not refuse,' cried Clara,
with a face and voice of dismay. ' I shall
think it an absolute cruelty if you refuse.'

'You see, dear,' Mary answered gently,
you must see, that I cannot consent to become
a burden upon you '

'A burden upon me,' Clara answered,
spreading her hands abroad and turning on
the Superior with a look of resignation to

unmeasured wrong. ' Did you ever hear
anything Hke that ? ' the gesture said. ' I
actually lived she continued with excellent
hypocrisy, 'in Miss Delamere's house for
the greater part of two years, and now she
refuses to live in mine. I shall think it
cruel if you dream of refusing me,' she
added, turning anew to Mary, * I shall think
it unfriendly. I shall never believe again
that you care for me at all. It's of no use,'
she was back at the Superior again, ' to talk
to Sister Constance of her own happiness or
her own welfare. Those are quite absurd
considerations to her mind. And she has
been housekeeping all her life and I have
had no experience. There are a thousand
things I want to learn, and she will leave me
to kill my husband with rheumatic fever
through unaired linen, or poison him with
an indigestion.' There was a cold tragedy
in this announcement which might have
touched the most obdurate heart. Mary
was evidently anxious to speak, and had

already made two or three movements in
that direction ; but Clara would not permit
her to be heard. ' I am willing,' she went
on, ' to leave it all in the hands of the
Sister Superior. You are not so undisciplined
and so hardened in your own
opinions that you will refuse to follow her
advice. I am sure that she will support
my petition.'

The artful young person, as it afterwards
appeared, had arranged with the Sister
Superior beforehand. That motherly, good
creature smiled, and answered that, really,
she thought that Sister Constance could
hardly be better employed. The matter was,
of course, entirely for her owen consideration.
But — The pause and the gesture were alike
significant.

'If I could be useful to you,' Mary
began —

Useful ! ' cried Clara. ' You'll be invaluable.
Oh, thank you, darling.' She
ran at her with impetuous haste, and laid

hold of both her hands. ' I never thought
you could refuse, but you don't know what a
load you have lifted from my mind.'

But,' began Mary, smiling, ' I haven't
promised.'

'There!' cried Clara piteously. 'It's all
to begin over again. You have promised —
with a sudden new vivacity. ' You have !
You have ! ' Then turning brokenly to me,
Now, John, has she not promised ?'

Since the Sister Superior had expressed
her opinion upon the matter I had hardly
regarded the situation as being doubtful.
She interposed again at this point, and carried
the day for the petitioners.

'Suppose,' she said, 'that you give your
friend the benefit of your experience for half
a year. You need not lay aside the work
you have taken to heart. You will be doing
a good action, I am sure.'

Clara poured out thanks upon her ally, and
new entreaties upon Mary. I joined my
own, and just as the Major's carriage rumbled

over the cobbled pavement to the door, the
treaty was concluded.

Certain telegraphic signs passed between
Clara and her mother before the carriage had
borne us back to the Strand, and the elder
lady was evidently almost as much gratified
as the younger. She had her daughter's
interests at heart, but she was quite willing
that so excellent a mistress as Mary Delamere
should save her the trouble of initiating
Clara into the details of housekeeping.
For my part I was in my own way as
satisfied as either. If I had had my
world to choose from, and to search fora
friend and companion to my wife that
was to be, I should have chosen Mary
Delamere. To have absolutely what you
would have chosen is a fortunate thing, and
I reckoned myself and Clara very happy in
this matter.

In due course, the banns being already put
up, the guests were invited, and we two
young people got married, and went away

for a six weeks' sojourn in Elysium. We
spent our moon and a half of honey in the
Riviera, and then came back to settle down
in smoky London with Mary Delamere as
my wife's companion.

That section of the great world which lived
by faith in old china was deeply stirred by
the news that the eminent art critic's collection
was about to be offered for sale by
public auction. Jones, who came now and
again to see us in our new home, was actually
pathetic about the threatened dissipation
of an assortment which had cost so much
skill, and patience, and money in the gathering.
Not only the crockery ware, but the
bronzes, the Japanese lacquers, the Eastern
ivories, the rare engravings, rare editions,
and rare coins, were all going. The chief
passion of this tragedy to Jones's mind was
that certain pictures of the Italian school,
which had never been brought together

before, and which illustrated a certain development
and phase of art, would have, in
all probability, to be sold separately, and
might be scattered the wide world oversee
wrote letters to the daily papers about this,
and was as sad and angry over the laxity of
the Government in not securing this treasure
for the nation as Jeremiah was in his day
concerning the backsliding of his people.
I have no doubt that, to people learned in
such matters, these works possessed a high
value of their own ; but to the uninitiated,
who cared for art-work chiefly because of its
beauty, they could hardly have been less
pleasing than they were. It is always dangerous
to attack the enthusiastic specialist,
and I was careful to disguise my own ignorance
and to leave Jones alone.

Delamere had expended quite a considerable
fortune in amassing his collection, and
had, in fact, been impoverished by it. He
had for years past paid to the insurance companies
a larger annual sum than it would

have cost him to live in bourgeois comfort
and to indulge in those commoner signs of
wealth which he despised. The house in
Cromwell Terrace was dismantled, and
bronzes, books, coins, ivories, pictures, and
china were all ranged, catalogued, and exposed
to view in the rooms of a great West
End auctioneer famous for his knowledge of
such things and his conduct of their sale.
Such part of fashion as was at that season of
the year to be found in town thronged the
rooms daily, and valetudinarian collectors
were borne swiftly home from remote health
resorts to be present at the sale. ]\Iany of
the objects were beautiful even to the eye
of ignorance ; and to the learned there was
nothing in the whole extensive collection
which had not some high special value,
beauty, or interest of its own.

Clara and I went to see the collection.
The rooms were almost empty when we got
there, for the first flush of public interest
was over ; but at the far end of the long

chamber in which the principal treasures
were exposed to view I saw and recognised
the stately figure of Mr. Delamere. I could
not help glancing at him from time to time
as he wandered hither and thither amongst
his belongings, as if taking mute and mournful
farewell. He saw us at length and
came over to us, looking extremely dignified
and stately, as a martyr might if he
were let out on bail the night before an
Auto-da-fe.

You know my little collection already,
Denham,' he said, with a gentle, noble sadness.
' There were many larger, even
amongst the private treasures of the world,
but not many so complete within its own
limited lines. A lifelong interest in these
things, a life-long study, enabled me to acquire
many objects of interest and value
which wealthier collectors were compelled to
pass for want of money. This intaglio, for
instance, cost me a mere thirty pounds. It
may realise ten times that sum tomorrow.'

He told me all about the object to which
he drew my attention, gave me a little sketch
of its history, of the life of the artist who
brought it into being, and of the special
artistic purpose it served in relation to the
rest. On a point like this he always knew
how to be charming. For, whatever else he
pretended, I never knew anybody bold
enough to charge him with inaccuracy or
ignorance about the precious objects in his
possession. He had spent his life in learning
all that was to be known of them, and
all the enthusiasm and feeling of which he
was capable were expended on them.

I would fain have kept these things,' he
told me, looking about him with his air of
mournful dignity. 'It is a wrench to part
with them, but I can afford to keep them no
longer. It is too much to hope that all of
them will fall into good hands. The newly
rich begin to hanker after these possessions,
and many of them are so sadly ignorant that
one fears, one fears.'

VOL. II p

I waited for him to make some inquiry
about Mary, and did not for one moment
imagine that he knew nothing of her present
whereabouts. I made no allusion to her,
and he made none. He had been too much
occupied, as I found out afterwards, in the
classification of his belongings, and too much
saddened at the thought of parting from
them, to find time for mere domestic considerations.
Clara, after lingering for a little
time, had continued her round of observation
alone. She had been very cool in her manner
towards him, but Mr. Delamere did not
seem to have noticed that. His heart was
in the coffin there with his crocks and other
bric-a-brac, and he must needs wait until it
came back to him.

On the third day of the sale we went
again, and bought two or three of the least
expensive trifles, partly to have some record
of the home in which Clara had lived so
long, and partly because they were the things
that had pleased her most. Delamere himself

was there, and was buying in some remnant
of his own, for the sale had achieved
an unexpected and surprising success, and it
was a matter of common rumour that the
proceeds had at least doubled the estimate
of the auctioneer. Delamere was well-to-do
again. He had impoverished himself by his
purchases and by the prodigious insurance-money
he was compelled to pay, and now it
turned out that he could hardly have made
a more fortunate investment of his money.
For years after people learned in such
matters quoted the prices realised at the
sale of the Delamere collection. Even now
one hears casual mention made of them at
times.

A week or two after the sale the bereaved
gentleman found time to think about his
daughter, and to discover her present whereabouts.
He made a solemn call upon us, and
inquired after her welfare. Clara at first
was indisposed to meet him, but I succeeded
in persuading her that it was better to do

SO, and after a little time she succumbed to
argument and entreaty. ' When I entered
the room in which Delamere waited he was
bending caressingly over a Dresden shepherdess
which had not long ago been one of
the least-prized objects in his own possession.


She is divorced from her surroundings,
poor thing!' he said, with a mournful smile;
divorced from her surroundings. By the
way, Denham, I learn that you have given
an asylum to my daughter.'

This was a little startling. The divorced
shepherdess really seemed the more important
personage of the two.

Miss Delamere is visiting us,' I answered,
and is so good as to give Mrs. Denham some
lessons in housekeeping.'

That,' said Mr. Delamere, with eyebrows
raised in mingled allowance and astonishment,
' is not a position I should have
thought her willing to occupy.'

This staggered me so completely that fora

moment I could only stare at him. I told
him then, and I am afraid that I told him
somewhat hotly, that his daughter was with
us as an esteemed and honoured guest. He
put on his gold-rimmed pince-nez, and said
smilingly that I was an enthusiast.

You have a warm and impetuous nature,
Denham — a warm and impetuous nature. Is
Mary within doors ?'

It was nearing five o'clock, and she was
expected momently. I told him that she
might be expected immediately, and added
that she spent most of her time amongst her
poor.

'Her poor?' he asked. 'She has that
fancy still. Well, well.'

Clara came in at this point, and she and
Delamere met with an icy courtesy by no
means comfortable to witness.

I learn from your husband, Mrs. Den-ham,'
he said, sinking gracefully into a
chair, ' that ]diary is labouring amongst the
poor. I should suppose that, with her

breeding and inherited instinct, she finds
that self - imposed office at times a little
trying.'

My dear Mr. Delamere,' Clara responded,
'we cannot all spend our lives in the contemplation
of the beautiful'

No, no,' Delamere assented. He saw
as clearly as I did that my wife was a
partisan, and likely to fight in the interests
of her own side if she had but the slightest
provocation that way. ' There are sterner
duties in the world.'

Indeed there are,' said Clara, with perhaps
unnecessary warmth of emphasis.

I should be the last to deny it,' he
answered smoothly. ' One or two of us live
out of the hurlyburly of the plains, and invite
sometimes a casual eye to our surroundings.
The rest go their way in pursuit of
meaner needs — — '

'All of them?' Clara asked, flushing at
his tone.

'Is there,' he asked in turn, 'any nobler

or more elevating employment than the pursuit
of beauty ? Is it not at least worth
while that a few should devote themselves
to that pursuit ; should strive to show the
world at large that beauty and utility are
not antagonistic ; that the simpler and less
elevated forms of life need not necessarily
be sordid ?'

The world is a big place, Mr. Delamere,'
said this truculent wife of mine, 'and there
is room enough in it for some of all kinds of
people. There may be room, perhaps, even
for a young woman who goes about nursing
the sick poor.'

Room ! ' cried Delamere, avoiding combat.
' Room, indeed ! Who denies honour
to the social martyr ? The heart is touched,
the sympathies are fired, by the contemplation
of a thousand silent heroism.'

Now this was too bold a taking away of
the mouse from pussy's claws to be endured
with patience.

'Give me,' said Clara, 'the people who

live in the hurlyburly of the plain, as you
call it. The soldier who fights for his
country, the poor man who breaks his back
over his spade, the chimney-sweeper who
sweeps a chimney honestly '

My dear Clara,' said Delamere, ' I would
give you a chimney-sweeper gladly if I had
one. I have no taste in chimney-sweepers,
and if such a person were upon my hands I
would part with him willingly to any lady
who might choose to ask for him.'

That is a poor retort,' said Clara, ' from a
conversational fencer so skilful as yourself.'

'Ah, really,' said Delamere, with a smile,
if we are to take off the buttons from our
foils and fight in earnest, I decline the
combat.'

Out of pure pity, one supposes ? '

Out of pure fear,' he answered.

I do not think,' she said, with a little
drawing of breath and a slight pinching of
the nostrils, ' that either of us would hurt
the other much.'

I am sure,' he answered, half rising to
bow to her, ' that neither of us would desire
to hurt the other.'

What end this fencing bout would have
found had it been continued I can hardly
say, though I fancy that a scratch or two
might possibly have resulted on both sides.
It was ended by the entrance of the chief
cause of conflict. She came in with her pale
cheeks somewhat flushed with exercise, and
her eyes, which were commonly sadder than
one liked to see them, brightened by the
same cause. She started when she saw her
father, and Delamere for his part cast a
horror-stricken glance at her costume. He
was evidently quite unprepared for it, as she
was for his visit.

I had not expected to find you here,'
said Mary.

Her manner was grave and reserved, but
it was easy to see that she was inwardly
agitated by the encounter.

Do not leave us, Mrs. Denham,' said

Delamere, seeing my wife make a movement
towards the door.

Then he moved across to his daughter.

Pray allow me to offer you a chair, my
dear. You will stay with us, Denham.
Thank you. I have something to say which,
as it seems to me, demands to be said in the
hearing of all here present.'

In spite of his invitation Mary remained
standing, but she laid her hand upon the rail
of the chair he had placed for her. I noticed
that it trembled as she set it down, but she
waited for what her father might have to say
with a look of calm attentiveness.

'I think,' said Delamere, 'that I am not
mistaken in supposing that the cause of
severance between you and me is known, or
guessed, by Denham and his wife.'

'Not a word has been spoken between
Mary and myself upon the subject,' said
Clara. ' I can't pretend not to know it, but
I know nothing of it through her.'

I should have believed that of my

daughter,' returned Delamere, 'even without
your authority. It would be futile in a
man who has just made public confession of
his poverty to pretend to delicacy in a case
like this, with respect to bygone financial
embarrassments. I have never had much
knowledge of business, and I have proved now
to my own satisfaction that I have a rather
curious incapacity for it. My old friend Chet-
wynd, who was in the habit of advising me,
died half a dozen years ago, and since that
time I have tried to manage my own affairs.
The world is not made up of honest and
high-minded people. I was plundered on
all hands, and but for the little collection of
artistic treasures with which I had surrounded
myself I should have been almost beggared.'
He delivered all this with a sort of proud
humility, as if he took it, as I really believe
he did, as a sort of distinction to be ignorant
of business affairs. He reserved himself from
boasting of it, but that was only because he
would not boast of anything.

'In these conditions,' he continued, *a
gentleman, for whom I had never professed
any especial sympathy or regard, made mean
offer of pecuniary assistance. He did it
in a manner most unexpectedly delicate and
friendly. I accepted his assistance. There
were circumstances which made that acceptance
so distasteful to my daughter that she
left her father's roof.'

Apart from a certain dignified querulousness
which he had sometimes shown, I had
never seen a touch of emotion in him until
now. He quavered a little on the final
words of this portion of his speech, and made
a motion as if to draw out his handkerchief.
He put this impulse by, however, and went
on again with a complete resumption of his
common manner.

I was enabled, by an unlooked-for occurrence,
to repay a portion of the loan much
sooner than I had dared to hope. I was
the more rejoiced at this inasmuch as my
daughter had made arrangements to engulf

the whole of her own very small fortune in
the immediate repayment of the borrowed
money. My purpose in coming here now is
to place in your hands, Mary, a cheque for
the balance of the loan, and to request that
you will forward it to the solicitors of your
trustee.'

He unbuttoned his frock-coat and produced
a pocket-book, from which he took
the cheque he spoke of. Mary accepted it
with a murmur of acknowledgment, and he
flowed on.

I trust that there is no feeling in your
mind, my child, which will prevent us from
resuming our old relations towards each
other. I had not intended that you should
become aware of the obligation under which
I had placed myself. It was one I should
have had no fear of offering had the conditions
been exchanged or exchangeable, and
it appears to me that a service which one
honourable man may offer, another man of
honour may accept. I have never, for its

own sake, regretted my acceptance of that
proffered help. I regretted its discovery,
and I have had reason to regret the construction
which was placed upon it. Next
to my own good opinion it is not unnatural,
perhaps, that I should value yours. Next
to that I valued the labour of my lifetime.
That small monument to beauty which I had
so patiently and fondly reared I have sacri-heed.
I have scattered it to the four winds
to regain your daughterly sympathy and
affection. The Delamere collection exists no
longer. The labours, studies, travels, of a
lifetime will leave no record to the world. I
had hoped,' he continued, a little moved again
by his own eloquence, ' to have bequeathed
it to the nation. It was small, but in itself
it was complete, and it might have taught a
lesson. '' Ex pede Hercules." '

Now I dare say that if we had not all three
been perfectly well aware that the Delamere
collection had been sold from an altogether
different motive than that which Delamere

claimed, we might have been affected by his
sacrifice, and have taken him to our hearts
with instant affection. For my own part I
should have preferred to have been miles
away, for on Mary's behalf I found the scene
difficult to endure.

I am very glad,' she said, ' that the
money is repaid, and I am very sorry that
the collection had to be sold.'

What made the thing a little worse forme
was that I knew, on the best authority,
that Pole had never offered Delamere anything,
or had indeed so much as known of
his necessities until Delamere himself had
written to him about them. I fancy, from
the look his daughter gave him when he
spoke of the generous offer made to him,
that she shared my knowledge. It was a
beseeching and frightened glance, and I read
into it a prayer on her part that he would
not lower himself in her eyes.

Delamere had evidently made less by
his motion than he had anticipated. He

looked surprised at Mary's brief and simple
answer.

Do you leave me to conjecture,' he demanded,
' that anything in the nature of a
barrier remains between us ?'

'Would it not be better,' she asked, 'to
talk of this when we are alone ? '

Delamere reddened, and walked to the
window, where he stood for a moment looking
on the street. The click of the door-latch
seemed to reach his ear, for he turned at the
moment at which Clara and I were slipping
quietly from the room.

Denham,' he cried, in a louder voice
than he often used, ' I desire your presence.
Mrs. Denham, I beg you to remain.'

He strode over swiftly to us as he spoke,
and holding the door so as to prevent my
closing it, drew us back into the room.

I appeal to you, Denham,' he said, then
closing the door and standing with his back
against it, as if to bar any further attempt at
egress. ' Those who know you best speak of

you as an honourable man. I appeal to
you as an honourable man to say if in this
matter, in your judgment, I have done anything
unbefitting.'

I have often been placed in embarrassing
positions, but so far in the whole course of my
life I have known nothing to equal the extreme
awkwardness of that moment. I could
only answer that I would infinitely prefer not
to be appealed to, and that in these matters
another man's opinion was quite valueless.
I added that I would accept no man's
judgment as to my owen acts or character.

It is Mary's wish,' said Clara decisively,
putting her arm through mine as she spoke,
to continue this conversation alone. I am
sure that that is the best and wisest course.
Perhaps Mr. Delamere will be so kind as to
open the door. Thank you.'

Mr. Delamere opened the door, and closed
it behind us, and that was the last Clara and
I saw of him for a considerable time. We
could hear his voice below us in stormy or

VOL. II Q

persuasive tones for something like the space
of half an hour. At the end of that time he
went away.

I wish,' said Clara, ' that he would ask
me for my opinion of his conduct in Mary's
absence. It would be a positive relief to me
to let him know it.'

Plainly, Delamere's sense of honour differed
widely from that of the common run
of men, and where that happens it is always
a misfortune. I do not think he ever rose
to a clearer conception of the case than to
suspect vaguely that he might have acted less
delicately than he would have preferred todo
if he had taken time to think about it.
No doubt it seemed to him that a considerable
hubbub was being made about a very
simple matter. It was a long time before
he brought himself to forgive my preference
for silence.

I HAVE already had occasion to mention a
certain weekly publication which called itself
a journal of society, and was the forerunner
of a large and important family with which
the world is now familiar. The existence of
this journal was brief and stormy. Whilst
it continued to appear it made a considerable
noise in the world, but until it finally made
so loud a bruit that it fell to pieces in the
shock of sound itself created, it made no
greater sensation than by its articles on ' The
Buried Lady of Title.' It was a scandal-loving
print, and as different from its decorous
successors as chalk from cheese. Those
who bought it and read its pages did so in
the unfailing hope, not often disappointed, of

finding something to the disadvantage of
people in high places. Its conductors had
never before had so piquant, so exciting, and
so strange a story to tell as this of the buried
lady of title. They made the most of it,
doling out the story in instalments week by
week, and asseverated so stoutly that the
narrative, curious as it was, was made up of
simple facts, that even the most doubtful'
began to take a sort of speculative interest in
it, and to look forward with curiosity for next
week's revelations.

By whatsoever means the tale had come
to the ears of the man who wrote it, there
was no denying its accuracy or its completeness.
The story of Pole's unfortunate hidden
marriage was related in detail. No names or
places were mentioned, but to one who knew
the history already the identification of the
people concerned was not merely easy but
unescapable. The parting of the ill-assorted
pair was slurred over somewhat, but from
that point the narrative became once more

precise and clear. There is no need to repeat
it, for it tallied with what has already
been set down in these pages. The writer,
loath to part with so interesting a theme,
dragged it on from week to week, until at
last, in large type, he announced the presence
of the buried lady in London. He stated
that a representative of the journal had been
admitted to an interview with her, that she
declared the plot to have been invented by
her husband, and was prepared to take such
simple and immediate steps as were necessary
for the establishment of her own position.

Now this was a very remarkable statement,
and if it could possibly have been true, would
have been disquieting ; but there was so little
doubt that Pole's wife had already surrendered
herself into the hands of the law that
the threat of return was preposterous. The
thing was evidently a brtduyn firemen, and
demanded nothing but to be left to itself. I
got letters from Pole, who still lingered in
Paris and had heard the news there, to this

precise effect. I wrote to him in the same
strain, and it was agreed between us that
there was nothing to be done but to let the
rumour die.

The rumour obstinately refused to die, and
coming at a season when not much in the
way of public interest was stirring, it grew
to be probably the commonest topic of conversation
in London at that season. A startling
murder chased it for a week, or nearly,
but the criminal was caught, and the buried
lady of title came into vogue again. Then,
though the discreet journalist still found no
names, the world at large got hold of them,
and Lord and Lady Worborough were in all
men's mouths. If Clara and I had been disposed
to be as communicative upon this topic
as our friends would have desired, we might,
I verily believe, have made ourselves the
lioness and lion of the hour. As it was,
we grew rather unpopular by reason of our
reticence.

Our world at large made such a pother

about the revelations of the society journalist,
and appealed to me as Pole's bosom friend
with so much pertinacity, that almost anybody
who did not talk about this one disagreeable
theme would have been welcome.
Jones, who was superior to all sorts of vulgar
interests, came by times, and talked upon the
questions with which he particularly concerned
himself. When he first appeared I was inclined
to be afraid that he intended to renew
his unavailing pursuit of Mary Delamere.
Clara shared this belief or doubt of mine, and
so I thought it best to come at once to an
understanding. I invited him to my study
under specious pretext of consulting him as
to the authenticity of some prints I had lately
purchased, and, having decoyed him thither,
opened fire upon him at once.

'Jones,' I said, with the solemnity and
solidity befitting a family man, 'you are
aware of the fact that Miss Delamere is at
present residing here.' Jones admitting this,
I put it to him as gently as I could that in

his capacity of old friend Miss Delamere and
ourselves would be very glad to welcome him.
But — Jones took the hint with a smiling
alacrity.

Ah ! ' he said, ' I remember to have
spoken to you about that matter in those
queer old rooms of yours in Gray's Inn
before anybody supposed that you were
going to be one of her Majesty's commissioners,
and when I seemed likelier than
yourself to wear the rosy hymeneal fetters.
You remember that I expressed some doubt
about the wisdom of the course at the time,
even though I actually proposed to embark
upon it.'

I told Jones that I remembered his remarks
at that time to have been characterised
by his usual wisdom and excellent good
taste. I had found out long ago that it was
quite impossible to wound Jones in that way.
No faintest suspicion of a want of sincerity in
people who took that tone with him ever
crossed his mind. It relieved me and left

Jones unhurt, so that there was a kind of
mild double pleasure in it.

'Well,' he said, * it is given to a happy-few
to blunder and not to be punished for
their blunders. I was saved from the results
of my own indiscretion, and I am not likely
to renew it. Miss Delamere need not fear
that I shall play the part of the disconsolate
lover. I do not think,' he added with a conquering
smile, ' that it is a role for which I
was cast by nature. I do not think it a part
in which I should be likely to shine.'

In that case, I told him, he should be
welcome to the general bosom of the household.
I was glad to know that he was cured,
and even expressed a hope that his sufferings
had not been at any time abnormally severe.

No,' he said, with the same conquering
smile, ' I think not. Do you know, Denham,'
he continued in his philosophico-confidential
manner, ' I have been rather devoting myself
of late to the observation of the youthful
male of our species. I have more especially

directed my studies to the point at which he
is said to be in love. I am assuming no airs
of superiority. I am quite conscious that not
very long ago I trenched with a perilous nearness
upon his position. But if I were not
putting myself into an insolent competition
with the general opinion, I should be very
much inclined to say that the youthful male,
absurd as he commonly and inevitably is, is
more absurd at that moment than at any other
of his whole foolish and futile existence.'

One never knows the truth about oneself,
and I may have been as great a prig in laughing
at Jones as Jones was in deserving to be
laughed at. I did laugh, however, with great
heartiness, and he was pleased — so pleased,
in fact, that he set up as a social humorist for
the rest of the evening, and exerted himself
to be delightful. It was not unnatural, finding
himself the cause of so much innocent
and admiring hilarity, that he should make
his visits pre tty constant. He told me once,
I remember, that he was at his best in my

society. It was not, he was good enough to
say, because I lent any additional brilliance
to the conversational fireworks of the evening
by any effort of my own. I was receptive.
I was appreciative. I gave him courage. He
felt safe in my presence and knew that he was
understood — not wholly, perhaps, but fairly
well — lest I should grow too proud.

It happened one night when we where
dining that Jones came in in evening dress
to announce the possession of a box at Her
Majesty's. Some considerable person of
Jones's acquaintance had taken the box, and
finding himself unable at the last hour to use
it, had sent it to him. Would Mrs. Denham
and myself accompany him ? The xv^v^ prima
donna, who had taken the world by storm,
was to sing that night. Royalty would be
present. Jones was of course superior to the
coarse, unreasoning sentiment of loyalty which
touched the crowd, and yet had a furtive liking
for a prince. Would we go ?

The point was under discussion when a

loud double knock sounded at the front door,
and a telegram was brought in to me. I
asked Jones's leave to open it, and this being
graciously accorded, I read it, and found that
it came from Pole. He was back in town,
had gone to his old chambers, and begged
me earnestly to meet him there with all
possible despatch. He would stay in his
rooms till midnight awaiting me.

I passed the telegram to Clara, who gave
a little start on reading the name by which
it was signed, and a veiled glance at Mary,
who sat opposite. She passed it back to me
and assumed a face of comic dismay to hide,
if need were, the effect the name had made
upon her.

'John,' she said, 'it is too bad. I had set
my heart on Rigoletto, Of course you must
go. The business must be urgent, or he
would not use such terms.'

Could you entrust Mrs. Denham to my
care,' Jones asked, ' and join us afterwards
? '

'We should be leaving you alone, dear,'
said my wife to Mary.

I am not at all afraid to be left alone,'
she answered, smiling. ' You must let me
help you to dress. There is not much time
to lose.'

So Jones's suggestion was adopted, and
I, having answered Pole's dispatch, hastily
changed my attire and, a hansom having
been got to the door, departed, in some
wonder as to the object of my friend's return
and the meaning of his pressing desire to seeme.
It was not long before these questions
found an answer. Pole was waiting for me
In his rooms, and at the sound of my hurried
footsteps on the stair he opened the door and
admitted me.

'You must forgive me,' he began, 'for
disturbing you with my affairs. You are the
only man in the world who knows the whole
story, and you are the only man with whom
I can bear to talk about it. Sit down and
look at these, and tell me what I ought to do.'

^ These ' were a little sheaf of bills, made
out to the Countess of Worborough. Most
of them were receipted — all but two, in fact
which I found at the bottom of the pile.
I glanced over them hastily, and found one
from a milliner, one from a jeweller, another
from a job master, another from an upholsterer.
There were eight or nine in all, and
roughly, they amounted to between two and
three thousand pounds. Of this sum, fully
two thousand appeared to have been paid.

Tell me what it all means,' I said.

Read that first,' he said with a groan,
throwing a crumpled note upon the table.

It was still warm from his hand when I
took it from the table, and it was so tightly
pressed together in places that I had some
difficulty in opening it without tearing the
paper. When I had succeeded, I read in an
excited-looking scrawl that the Countess of
Worborough presented her compliments to
the Earl of Worborough. She was informed
that she had committed forgery in signing

his name to the cheques by which the enclosed
bills were paid. If the Earl of
Worborough chose to encounter the scandal
of a prosecution, the Countess would be unfeignedly
delighted. That was all.

It appeared that, by some means as yet
unknown. Lady Worborough had become
possessed of a cheque-book from her husband's
bank, and signed his name, and being
confronted by the tradesmen, had calmly
announced the forgery, and had sent this
note through Pole's solicitor. Two of the
tradesmen had accompanied her to the
lawyer's office, and all had agreed to wait
for an answer from Lord Worborough
himself before taking further proceedings.
Pole had arrived in town that morning, had
spent his day in settling the accounts, and
now wanted counsel.

It's not the money,' he said, walking
agitatedly up and down the room. ' I had
enough and to spare before the money came
to me, and if she would only go away and

be quiet with it, she would be welcome toit
every farthing. I would rather break
stones at the roadside, and live on a shilling
a day, than live in constant dread that this
kind of scandal should be sprung upon me.'

In all my acquaintance with him I had
never until now known him to lose his self-possession.
But now all his old nonchalance
was gone ; his voice shook with shame and
anger, his footsteps and his gestures were
disordered, and his whole bearing was
changed.

If I gave her all I had,' he went on, * I
can guess what use she would make of it. I
have half a mind to do it and take an alias,
and go away to California and make a living
there by my own hands.'

In a while he began to recover himself
again, and he resumed, in something like his
accustomed manner :

But you see, Jack, the money isn't mine.
The next heir has as good a right to it as I
had. And even if it were absolutely mine,

to do as I pleased with, there are grave
responsibilities attaching to the mere annual
income. It's possible to do a prodigious
amount of good with such a sum. It's
possible to do a prodigious amount of
harm. I can't run away ; I can't turn
tail and hide myself. You forgive me,'
he said suddenly, ' for throwing my miseries
on your shoulders.' He laid both hands
upon me and rocked me to and fro a little
after his old fashion, and then, turning away,
began to pace the room again, but more
slowly and despondently than before.

I told him, truly, that I wished, above all
other things, to be of use to him. Could
we, I asked him, decide upon anything, and
could I act as his emissary ?

I tried to face the lawyer about it this
afternoon,' he said, 'and I had not the
courage to do it. I had to face the tradesmen,
and that was shame enough for one
day. She knows,' he went on, sadly
desperate in voice and face, ' that I will bear

VOL. II R

anything bearable rather than endure any-public
scandal which can draw another name
into its ugly coils, and she presumes on that.'

*You told her once in my hearing,' I
responded, ' that you held one power only
over her, and that you would use it. You
can make an arrangement with her — an
arrangement which all men would admit to
be generous, and if she will not accept that
with reasonable conditions, all men will hold
you justified in using your power.'

I can threaten her with it,' he answered ;
but how can I carry the threat into action ?
How could I leave my wife penniless, let her
do what she would 1 '

'Offer her,' I answered, 'a fixed allowance,
on condition that she refrains in all
ways from annoying you. If she refuse that
allowance, you are not responsible for the
refusal. The position is unhappy, but you
are not helpless in it. You have only to
decide and to be strong.'

'That,' said Pole, 'is the plain commonsense

of the case, and I know it as well as
you do. But it is not easy to decide, nor
easy to be strong. Strength and decision
may end in bringing an innocent creature
within reach of common gossip and offensive
pity. 'I tell you,' he added passionately, 'my
wife has this hold upon me, and she knows
it. In her lifetime, by that horrible plot of
hers, an innocent, pure-minded, high-bred
woman promised to become my wife. I
would rather die — I would rather go on dying
every day than drag her name into publicity.'
I argued with him, long and earnestly. I
showed him that until he took some such
step as I counselled he could not hope for a
moment to be free of annoyance, or even free
of the danger of disgrace. I got him at last to
assent to this proposal : That I should make it
my business on the morrow to secure an interview
with his wife, and to make an offer to
her of an income of five thousand pounds per
annum, on condition that she quitted England,
and undertook in now^ay to molest her husband.

'Suppose,' he asked me, 'she should accept
the offer and break her promise ? '

'Let the agreement,' I answered, 'be
drawn up by your own lawyer, and let him
be answerable for your side of it. Let herbe
answerable for her own. No man can
blame you. No man can have anything but
sympathy for anybody who suffers as you do.'

So far, then, the thing was allowed to stand
as if decided. The matter and the manner
of an interview had afforded but a poor prelude
to a night's enjoyment at the opera.
But life has to be lived somehow, and it is
an old commonplace that sad hearts often
find themselves in haunts of pleasure. After
a good deal of persuasion Pole was induced
to accompany me, and when he had dressed we
set out together. Jones was pleased to find
a place for Lord Worborough in his box, and
Clara welcomed him with evident heartiness.

We heard but little of the music, and were
disturbed on more grounds than one. The
audience shared a part of our disturbance.

for there was a party in the next box whose
members persisted, in spite of indignant
cries of ' Order I ' in loud conversation and
laughter. Once or twice there arose a considerable
clamour, and at one moment an
indignant official of the house knocked at
the door of the box in which we sat, and
being admitted, requested us to keep silence.

'We,' said Jones, 'are amongst the chief
sufferers from the disturbance, not the creators
of it. The noise comes from the next box.'

A louder burst of laughter than we had
heard before confirmed the statement almost
at the moment at which it was made. The
indignant official melted for one moment
into apology, grew instantly indignant again,
and withdrew. We heard him rapping at
the next door, and after this the noise
became less marked, though conversation
was still carried on in a higher key and
with less restraint than is usual in such
places.

I tried to fix my attention upon the business

of the stage, but my thoughts wandered
from it persistently, and I went back in fancy
to the interview just over, and forward infancy
to the business of the morrow. I dished
that coming interview less than I should
have fancied, and even felt something of the
glow of battle as I contemplated it. I was
just resolving in my mind how uniformly
courteous I would be, yet how firm and decisive,
and was rehearsing the speech I meant
to make, when the music, which had all the
while been swelling and swelling, and no
doubt helping my martial thoughts by its
cadenced clash and roar, stopped suddenly
as if a cataract should have ceased in full
bound. A voice sprang out of the sudden
silence, and every creature in the theatre
must have heard it. What words came
before, or what words were intended to
follow afterwards, I could not guess. But
the words that struck through the sudden
silence were neither more nor less than
these — * Lady Worborough.'

They were spoken in a shrill and ill-bred
female voice, and were, as I have said, audible
to every person in the theatre. People turned
and stared, and there was a hubbub of cries
of ' Order ! ' ' Shame ! ' and ' Silence ! ' and
voices called from the gallery, ' Turn them
out ! ' From that moment a hush fell upon
the noisy occupants of the box, and we heard
no more of them. At the sound of the words
we had all turned to look at one another ina
common astonishment. Pole's pale face
flushed crimson, and then went gray. We
sat afterwards in a confused and comfortless
silence, and the final descent of the curtain
was a relief to all four of us. We delayed a
moment in quitting the box, and the lately
noisy people, our neighbours, went out before
us. Pole laid a hand upon my arm and detained
me for a moment, whilst Clara and
Jones passed out upon the corridor.

She was there,' he said.

No, no!' I answered. ' The name has been
on everybody's lips for a week past.' I could

have bitten my tongue off a second later for
my stupidity, but he did not seem to notice it.

'She was there,' he said. 'I heard her
voice half a dozen times.'

Clara was looking brightly back at us,
smiling at something Jones was saying as he
arranged her cloak. She beckoned me with
her fan, and we went out and joined her.
The corridor and the stairs were fast emptying,
but there was a crowd in the vestibule,
and the usual clamour of voices sounded
there. It was raining slightly out of doors,
and people were pausing to put up umbrellas.
We made our way through the concourse
slowly, and as we came out upon the colonnade
a man with a stentorian voice bellowed,
Lady Worborough's carriage ! '

END OF VOL. II

Printed by R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh

Aunt Rachel : A Rustic Sentimental Comedy, New and
Cheaper Edition. Globe 8vo. 2s.

The Times says : "This is a charming idyll of village life, . . . These sturdy inhabitants
of the Black Country, before it was very black, are altogether lifelike, and
^v^thal infinitely humorous and pleasing."

The Adherent says : " Aunt Rachel is an excellent piece of work, in some respects
the best he has done. . To do justice to the conversation would require more quotation
than space can be spared for, but it is delightfully humorous."

The Academy says : " The most artistic achievement we have yet had from his pen."

The Guardian says : "The story is told in Mr. Christie Murray's best manner; oiu-
readers will scarcely need to be informed how good that manner is."

NEW NOVELS.

By F. MARION CRAWFORD.
With the Immortals, By F, Marion Crawford, Author
of 'Mr. Isaacs,' 'Doctor Claudius,' 'Paul Patois,' etc. Second and
Cheaper Edition. 2 vols. Globe 8vo. I2J.

The spectator says : " To do justice to Mr. Crawford's remarkable book by extracts
would be impossible. . . . All we can do is to select one or two bright passages short
enough to transfer to our columns. . It is a book which, whatever judgments maybe
passed upon its form, cannot fail to please a reader who enjoys crisp, clear, vigorous
writing, and thoughts that are alike original and suggestive."

The Literary World says : " The experiment is a daring one, and, on the whole, is a
distinct success. The book contains some of the finest passages Mr. Crawford has ever
written. Again and again he has reached a level, both in feeling and ex-pression, which,
so far as we remember, he has never touched before."

The Glasgow Herald saj-s : " With the Immortals is unquestionably the cleverest
and most thoughtful piece of literary' work that Mr. Marion Crawford has yet produced.
. . Those who care for pure literature will prize the story — if story' it can be called-;-as
one of the freshest, most cultured, and suggestive productions of recent years. It is a
work of exceptionally fine literary' quality-the

Globe says : " The result is agreeable as the method is clever. . . . The book
will appeal successfully to the educated reader. It contains many admirably written
passages."

The Morning Post saj-s : " Mr. Crawford's book is a (^&\&r jeu d' esprit."

By WILLIAM Into.

The Mediation of Ralph Hardelot. By William Into,

Author of 'The Crack of Doom.' 3 vols. Crown Svo. 31^. 6t/.

By J, H, Storehouse.
The Comites Eve, By J. H. Shorthouse, Author of ' John
Inglesant,' ' The Little Schoolmaster Mark,' etc. Crown Svo.

[Immediately.

By CHARLOTTE M, Yonge.
Beechcroft at Blackstone, By Charlotte M. Yonge.
2 vols. Crown Svo. 12s. [Shortly.

By BRET HARTE.
Cressy. By Bred Harte, 2 vols. [In the press.

Macmillan AND CO., LONDON.

OF

CHARLES KINGSLEY

Messrs. MACMILLAN AND CO.
have the pleasure to announce that they
will begin in October the publication of
a new and cheaper Edition of the most popular of
Mr. Kingsley's Books. The new Edition will be
printed in Crown 8vo, from entirely new type,
and will be issued in Monthly Volumes, price
3s. 6d. each, in the following order : —

Westward Ho! With a Portrait . . . 6>^/. 1888.

Hepatic Nov. „

Yeast Dec. „

Alton Locke san. 1S89.

Two Years Ago-fel?. „

Hereward the Wake March,,

Poems April „

The Heroes, or Greek Fairy Tales for my

Children May „

The Water Babies ; a Fairy Tale for a Land-baby
. //fie „

Madam How and Lady Why; or First Lessons

in Earth Lore for Children /21/y „

At Last ; a Christmas in the West Indies . . Fig. ,,

Prose Idylls, New and Old Seps. „

MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.

OF

CHARLOTTE M. YONGE.

concurrently with their cheap Edition of Charles
Kingsley's Writings, it is the intention of the publishers
to issue a new, cheap, and uniform Edition of the
popular Novels by Miss Charlotte M. Yonge. In order
that the series may be completed within a reasonable time, it
will appear at the rate of two volumes per month in the
order indicated below. All the original Illustrations will be
given, and the price will be 3s. 6d. per volume.

The following is the order of publication : —





MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.

WESTWARD HO !
HEREWARD THE WAKE.
TWO YEARS AGO.

By Charles Kingsley.

I ALTON LOCKE.
Hepatic.
YEAST.

With Portrait.

By Charlotte M. Yonge.

With Illustrations by Kate Greenaway, Herbert Gandy, Adrian Stokes, J. P.
Atkinson, Marion Huxley, W. J. Hennessy, and Jane E.'Cook.

THE HEIR OF Radcliffe.

Heartless.

HOPES AND FEARS.

DYNEVOR TERRACE.

THE DAISY CHAIN.

THE TRIAL.

THE PILLARS OF THE HOUSE. 2 Vols.

CLEVER WOMAN OF THE FAMILY.

THE YOUNG STEPMOTHER.

THE THREE BRIDES.

MY YOUNG Allies.

THE CAGED LION.

THE DOVE IN THE EAGLE'S NEST.

THE CHAPLET OF PEARLS.

LADY HESTER and THE Dangers

PAPERS.
MAGNUM BONUM.
LOVE AND LIFE.
UNKNOWN TO HISTORY,
STRAY PEARLS.
THE ARMOURER'S 'PRENTICES.
THE TWO SIDES OF THE SHIELD.
NUTTIE's FATHER.
SCENES AND CHARACTERS.
CHANTRY HOUSE.
A MODERN TELEMACHUS.

By the Author of "John Halifax, Gentleman.

THE Gillies.

M'Ralston.

Illustrated by J. M.
Illustrated

Illustrated by

THE HEAD OF THE FAMILY

by Walter Crane.

OLIVE. Illustrated by G. Bowers,

By Annie Weary.

CASTLE DALY. | OLDBURY. I A DOUBTING HEART.

A YORK AND A LANCASTER ROSE. CLEMENCY Franklin.

AGATHA'S HUSBAND.

Walter Crane.
MY MOTHER AND I. Illustrated.
MISS TOMMY. Illustrated by F. Noel

Paton.
KING ARTHUR : Not a Love Story.

THE EUROPEANS.

THE AMERICAN.

DAISY MILLER : AN INTERNATIONAL

EPISODE, etc.
RODERICK HUDSON.
THE MADONNA OF THE FUTURE, and

other Tales.

By Henry James.

I WASHINGTON SQUARE : THE Pension
BEAUREPAS: A BUNDLE OF
LETTERS.

THE PORTRAIT OF A LADY.

STORIES REVIVED. Two Vols. 6s. each.

THE PRINCESS CASAMASSIMA.

THE BOSTONIANS.

THE REVERBERATOR.

TOM BROWN'S SCHOOLDAYS. Told BROWN AT OXFORD.

MISS BRETHERTON. By Mrs. Humphrey Ward.

MITCHELHURST PLACE. By Margaret Veley.

JILL. By E. A. Dillwyn.

THE Cerulean : A Vacation Idyll. By H. S. Cunningham.

NEiERA : A Tale of Ancient Rome. By J. W. Graham.

THE WOODLANDERS. By Thomas Hardy.

A BELEAGUERED CITY. By Mrs. Oliphant.

By J. Henry Shorthouse.

JOHN Angles ANT. | SIR PERCIVAL.

A TEACHER OF THE VIOLIN.
THE LITTLE SCHOOLMASTER MARK. 4s. 6d.

Works by F. Marion Crawford.

In Crown Svo, 6s. each.
ZOROASTER. , I A TALE OF A LONELY PARISH.

PAUL PATOFF. | MARZIO's CRUCIFIX.

In Crown Svo, 4s. 6d. each.
MR. ISAACS : A Tale of Modern India.
DR. CLAUDIUS : A True Story. | A ROMAN SINGER.

(/

MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.

v,3

we

WEAKER VESSEL

BY

D. CHRISTIE MURRAY

AUTHOR OF 'JOSEPH'S COAT,' ' RAINBOW GOLD,' ' AfNT RACHEL,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLS.
VOL. Il

lotion
MACMILLAN AND CO.

AND NEW YORK


All rights reserved

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/weakervessel03murr

CHAPTER XXIX

I HAD no difficulty in escaping from the
light duties of my office, and at noon on the
following day I sought out Lady Worborough
at the address her husband had given me.
Judging from the upholsterer's bills I had
seen she had beo:un the furnishing of a house,
but she was for the time being residing in an
hotel ; a quiet, solid, old-fashioned, and expensive
house, of which I could only remember
to have heard that it was commonly used
by a ver* distinguished person in my own
part of the country' on his rare visits to
town. It had the severest sort of aspect
when I reached it, and the solemn old butler
who came forward to inquire my business

VOL. Ill B

would have been at home in the establishment
of a bishop. I gave him my card and
asked for Lady Worborough. A little to my
surprise he showed me upstairs without inquiry,
and conducted me into the antechamber
of what turned out to be a splendid suite of
rooms, very large, very solemn and lonely
looking. Here he left me for a moment to
look about me and passed into a room beyond.
He came back after a very little time.

Lady Worborough will receive you, sir,'
he said. ' Will you be so good as to walk
this way, sir ? '

He led me through a room much longer
than the first, into an apartment where a
table had been laid for breakfast. The
breakfast paraphernalia was still there, in
some disorder, and beyond the table stood a
gaunt woman, something over middle age,
of unmistakably French aspect. She had
almost a dragoon-looking moustache, and her
tall, spare figure was rigorously embraced by
a tight-fitting bodice of dull black silk. Her

cuffs and collar were of a gentlemanly pattern,
and her black, waveless hair was parted on
one side. For a mere second on beholding
her I was uncertain of her sex.

Will monsieur give himself the trouble
to be seated ? ' she said, addressing me in
French. ' Madame la Comtesse will be here
immediately.'

She sat down in a military attitude, and I
took the chair her gaunt finger had indicated.
The elderly butler retired, closing the door
behind him, and we sat in a chill, prim
silence for perhaps five minutes. The lady
smoothed her cuffs and her moustache, and
looked at me uncompromisingly, as though
she were a military person who carried a
cartel of defiance. At last the door opened,
and Lady Worborough swept upon the scene
for all the world as if the footlights had
gleamed before her. She was attired in a
gorgeous dressing-gown of scarlet silk and
black lace, and she wore white lace at the
throat and wrists. The door had been

thrown open for her by some person out of
my range of sight, and was closed behind her
as she entered. She threw the skirts of her
dressing-gown about her feet, and stood
posed for a second or two, as if waiting
applause. Then she inclined her head to me,
and made a motion with her hand to her
companion, who obediently placed a chair
behind her. She sank into this and seeded
herself leisurely, with the same stagy exaggeration
of common manners which had
marked her entrance. With all this sorrowful
affectation there was no abatement in
the bitter and disdainful hauteur of her look,
and whenever, in the slow, purposed stage
majesty of her movements, her eyes encountered
mine, they glided away with the old,
insufferable hate and pride.

'To what,' she asked me, 'am I indebted
for the honour of this visit '^. '

'I am afraid,' I responded, 'that I cannot
speak of the business which brings me
here in the presence of a third person.'

Madame Sure does not understand a
word of English,' she said, with a sort of
scorn and Impatience In her tone, as If she
had expected me to know this. ' You may-tell
me your business and begone.'

I will not detain you,' I answered, ' a
moment longer than Is necessary.'

You detain me unnecessarily In saying
so,' she answered. ' Let us have no flourishes.
Say what you have to say, and go.'

Thus exhorted, I made myself as brief as
possible.

I am here, Lady Scarborough, as your
husband's messenger.' At this first mention
of her title I saw the first touch of complacency
I had ever seen upon her features.
She repressed it instantly, and looked, If
possible, more proud and self-disdainful than
before. 'He desires me,' I continued, 'to
lay a proposal before you which he hopes
may close all contest between you and him.
On his side he is willing to pay to you during
your lifetime a sum of five thousand pounds

per annum, and on your side he asks an
undertaking that you will leave England,
and that you will not in any way molest him.
He will pay the debts you have incurred
until now, and will make over to you all
properties you may have acquired in making
them. But he will be answerable for nothing
further.'

If I had seen the faintest hope of succeeding
by persuasion, if I had been tempted by
any little fancy that she could have been
touched by appeal or reason, I would have
taken another tone, and have chosen other
words. As it was, I simply laid my message
before her drily, and kept all feeling out of it.

'You will tell Lord Worborough,' she
said, ' that I reject his contemptible offer
with the scorn it merits.'

I am instructed,' I returned, ' to say
that no other offer will be made, and that incase
of the refusal of the conditions now
proposed to you, Lord Worborough will feel
compelled to leave England '

And leave me,' she Interjected, ' to my
own devices ? I know what to expect from
Lord Worborough. It will be quite as well
that Lord Worborough should know what to
expect from me. You bring me his ultimatum.
You may carry back mine. I will
take nothing less than the position which
is justly due to me.'

I asked her to define that position.

Since Lord Worborough decides to live
apart from me,' she answered, ' and since I
would on no grounds consent to hold any
avoidable intercourse with Lord Worborough,
I claim that my solicitor and his shall meet
to ascertain the amount of his yearly income,
and that it shall be strict halved between
us. I claim to live in England if I choose,
and to spend half the year at Worborough
Court and half the year in my house in
town. I claim at such times to invite whom
I please.'

It was not with the slightest hope of
reasoning with her, or bringing her to see her

own side smaller than she saw it by the light
of nature, but out of pure curiosity to know
how far her contemptuous disregard of others
would carry her, that I asked where Lord
Worborough was to live. She raised her
eyebrows with a theatrical pretence of indifferent
astonishment.

What is it to me where Lord Worborough
lives, or where Lord Worborough dies ? If
Lord Worborough should cease to live I shall
have my claim upon the estate.'

I hastened to close the interview.

The agreement of which I have spoken
will be drawn up by Lord Worborough s
lawyer at once, and submitted to your ladyship.'


Lord Worborough's solicitor may save
himself the trouble of drawing up any such
document. If it is submitted to me I shall
put it in the fire.'

That is your last word upon the matter,
madam ? '

That is my last word upon the matter, sir.'

I rose and turned to go, but recollected
that I had not delivered the whole of the
message entrusted to me.

I am to say,' I added, pausing half-way
to the door, 'that an advertisement will
appear tomorrow morning In every London
daily journal to the effect that Lord Marlborough
will not hold himself responsible for
any debt whatever contracted in his name.
He will make arrangements with his men of
business for cash payment in respect of everything
that may be required by them, will
abolish his own personal banking account,
and draw solely upon his steward.'

She turned a little pale at this, and I
thought that I had made an impression upon
her. I waited In silence for a considerable
time, but she gave me no answer. Her
hands, which I noticed for the first time,
were glittering with heavy and valuable-looking
rings, clutched at the scarlet silk
of her dressing-gown with precisely such
an exaggerated motion of anger as an

actress would have employed upon the
scene.

Permit me, Lady Worborough,' I said.
There is no desire to be harsh or overbearing.
The offer I am empowered to make is
generous, and no court of law in the world
will find it inadequate to your position. The
offer will never be withdrawn upon your husband's
side, and upon signature of the .document
I have named you will be able at anytime
to realise the allowance made to you.
But no further offer will be made, and no
penny will be paid until the document is
signed.'

Very well, sir,' she answered, 'you have
my answer, and you may go. I will starve
in the streets rather than accept this wretched
pittance.'

She rose to her feet, and strode to and
fro about the room, swinging her trailing
gown about her as she turned, with a hand
obviously trained and skilful. The old sense
-I had of her having rehearsed the scene

came back upon me, and I could see that she
had, in her own fierce, self-hating way, a
relish and enjoyment for the airs she practised
and the tones she used.

And who are you ? ' she cried, pausing
suddenly in a statuesque attitude, with both
hands drawn backward clutching her robe
and her chin high in the air. ' Who are you
who dare to come here to insult me with
this infamous message } You, my husband's
hanger-on and toady, who owe the bread you
eat to the generosity of Lord Worborough.'

'That, madam,' I answered, 'is no part of
the question I was empowered to discuss.
I have the honour to wish you a good day.'

She flashed between me and the door in
an instant, setting her back against it with
simulated panting of rage and scorn, and
eyes wide open. All the airs were simulated,
but there was evidently a real passion behind
them. Pole had told me something, though
not much, of the manner of her rages, and I
began to see that I was fated to witness at

least one of them. She rated me at first
with a slow and measured tone, which gradually
increased in volume and rapidity, until
it grew to an inarticulate shriek. She tore
the laces from her neck and wrists, and rent
them with teeth and fingers into fragments.
Whatever pretence she had begun with she
had got past her own guardianship by this
time, and was embarked upon the full tide of
a mad hysteria. The gaunt female who acted
as her companion seemed accustomed to this
display. She marched quietly and with a
determined air to her mistress, and then
moving suddenly behind her, pinioned her
elbows, and, in spite of her raging resistance,
drew her from the door.

Allez vous en ! ' she said to me in one of
the pauses of the mad, screaming voice.

I needed no second bidding, but slipped
out hastily, closing the door behind me. In
the next apartment the wild cries sounded
almost as fiercely in my ears as they had
done at first. I closed a second door and

they were fainter ; a third, and they were
barely audible. I could still hear them, or
fancied that I heard them, in the hall ; but
the solemn old butler, who may, for all I can
tell, have been a little hard of hearing, gave
no sign, but opened the door and bowed me
out upon the street with an unaltered gravity
of politeness. I had not arranged to meet
Pole again until the evening, but, according
to agreement, I made my way to his solicitor,
and gave him instructions for the preparation
of the document. He promised, under pressure,
that it should be ready for delivery on
the morrow ; and I returned to my own duties,
such as they were, and remained in my office
till the customary hour of leaving.

If ever Pole had stood in need of justification
to my mind, the scene in which I had
just taken part would have amply served his
turn. As it was, it served only to confirm
an opinion already sufficiently fixed and solid.

When we met that evenings I told him the

o

result of the interview.

I expected as much,' he said. 'She will
not yield, and I dare not. She must go her
own way and dree her weird.'

We drew up between us the advertisement
we had decided upon, and sent a commissionaire
in a cab to the advertisement
offices of the various London papers, and
next morning the announcement appeared
and was naturally much talked of. Pole
lingered in London long enough to complete
his instructions to his lawyer and to give
directions to his steward. It was decided
to close Worborough Court and to leave
only the servants absolutely necessary for
its preservation from decay ; and the unhappy
master of the stately old place went
abroad again to carry his burden as best he
might.

Before he went it was decided that in case
of any new movement on the part of Lady
Worborough I was to be consulted by the
lawyer before action on our side was taken.
Pole was going to move about, not knowing

as yet In what direction, and caring as little
as he knew.

At our parting he named Mar)' Delamere
of his own accord for the first time since the
discover' of his wife's plot. He asked after
her health and general welfare with a quiet,
sorrowful composure, and I answered him
with perfect truth and candour. She suffered,
but she suffered very nobly to my thinking,
and I told him that he might be sure that
in a while she would find a tranquil happiness.
That was our good-bye, for the train
started as I spoke, and we had time for no
more than a final shake-hands.

About a week later I was seated in my
office when a messenger announced a visitor.
The visitor being ushered in appeared as a
sandy-haired and pale-complexioned man of
middle age, who had a jaunty manner and
an air of humorous enjoyment of things in
general, tempered by a habit of respectfulness.
He announced himself as coming from
Pole's lawyer, and he brought with him a

curious and embarrassing history. Lady
Worborough had, it seemed, taken up her
quarters at the Court, had taken her companion
with her, and had proclaimed her
right to stay there. The messenger appeared
to find a certain not easily discernible drollery
in this history, and smiled outright half a
dozen times in telling it. My glance seemed
always to quell this unseasonable tendency to
mirth on his part, but if I turned from him
for a moment it was only to find him inspired
once more to a broad grin by the hidden
humour of the situation.

The steward circulated the advertisement,
sir, amongst the local tradespeople, but Lady
Worborough has so far paid in ready money,
and of course nobody has refused to serve
her. She doesn't seem to spend much, her
ladyship doesn't. She has killed quite a
number of the cocks and 'ens in the back
premises' — here the broad grin flashed out
again, was struggled with, under the influence
of my unsympathetic eye, and with

difficulty dismissed — ' and we learn, sir, that
she has given orders for a dozen pigs to be
killed and salted down as if she had made up
her mind to stand the siege. Of course it
costs her nothing to maintain the servants,
because they are on board wages, and are
paid regularly by the steward. Mr. Wantage
would very much like to know, sir, what, in
your opinion, ought to be done under the
circumstances.'

I could think of nothing that could be
done under the circumstances, but to leave
Lady Worborough in possession of the Court,
until circumstances compelled her to vacate
it. The lawyer, when I came to confer with
him, shared in this opinion, but when it came
to our ears, as it did later on, that articles of
value were being sold, we deemed it our duty
to interfere. The dull and stupid contention
went on for six months, and then her ladyship,
tiring of the business, disappeared.
There were occasional paragraphs in the
newspapers, by which one learned that the

VOL. Ill c

eccentric Lady Worborough was at Bath, or
that the eccentric Lady Worborough was at
Scarborough. But by and by these flickered
out, and for a full year no intelligence of her
doings reached me. I supposed that she was
living upon the proceeds of her last raid upon
her husband, and I looked forward with certainty
to her reappearance when her store
should be exhausted.

In the rear of my house there was a garden,
not at all a large affair, for land In that part
of town is too expensive to be set apart
for anything so unprofitable as mere health
and pleasure. It measured eleven yards by
eight, and was bordered by a brick wall, into
which the smoke of thousands of household
fires seemed actually to have entered. When
we first took possession of the house this
wall looked exceedingly raw and desolate,
and there was even a suspicion of squalor
about it, which was altogether out of accord
with the aristocratic character of the neighbourhood
and the magnitude of the rent.
But as the spring advanced certain forlorn-looking
creepers began to burgeon, and the

bare trees, not only in my own garden, butin
the gardens of my neighbours, took a
hopeful show of green, and by the time the
kindly summer reached us the dingy wall
was three-fourths hidden with flowers and
foliage, and a screen of live emerald folded
round us so completely that by dint of a
little imagination we could fancy ourselves
in the middle of a country solitude. We had
a gaily striped tent erected here, with a
boarded and carpeted floor, and there, when
my official duties for the day were over, we
held revel over five o'clock tea. Sometimes,
on very bright mornings, we made the pretence
of a picnic, and breakfasted out thereto
the particular satisfaction of the page-boy,
who adopted the picnic idea more completely
than any other member of the household, and
decorated his face with London blacks by
rolling on the grass behind the tent, out of
sight, in the intervals of duty.

It was pleasant, in the summer dusk, to
take one's after-dinner coffee and cigar in

this retreat, or to lie upon a rug on the
Limited scrap of lawn, staring up at the
smoke - softened sky, which, in clear and
tranquil weather, is more beautiful than the
average Londoner seems to know or dream.

It was near dark one evening, after a day
of sweltering heat, when I lay thus engaged,
thinking in a hazy fashion of many things.
Clara and clary had been seated beside me,
talking quietly, and now, perhaps for a
quarter of an hour, my wife and I had been
alone together. We had not exchanged a
word during this time, but I was filled with
a pleasant sense of her nearness and companionship,
and it has always seemed to me
to be a rather poor and thin companionship
where people must needs be perpetually
talking. It was an understood thing between
us, though nobody spoke of it, that a
battle was near at hand. In a week or two
Mary's promised stay of six months would
come to a close, and we knew that though
she was far happier with us than she would

have been elsewhere, she would make an
effort more or less determined to return to
the Sisterhood. Personally I was resolved
to make a very determined effort to retain
her, and I was the more resolute because I
thought I had seen now and again a cloud
upon Clara's spirits which I attributed to her
fear of the approaching parting.

She sat at the door of the tent, with a
book, which it was too dark to read, held
laxly in one hand beside her, with a finger
between the leaves, still unconsciously marking
the page at which she had put it by. I,
lying close beside her, within easy hand
reach, could see the book and the hand with
the wedding-ring upon the finger, but her
drooping face, as she seemed to look down
upon me, was dark against the shining pallor
of the sky. I rolled idly over, and possessing
myself of the book, took the little ringed
hand in mine, and, to my terror and astonishment,
a large, warm tear fell. I rose to my
knees and asked what was the matter. I

thought of that possible coming parting, and
could imagine nothing else as a cause for
tears, but had that been a reason for her
grief the answer would have come easily,
and here, for a while, I could get no response
at all. To find my poor little wife
hugging me round the neck with both
arms, and weeping in a sort of resolved
despair without being able at all to guess
the ground of it, was pitiable, and almost
terrible.

What is it, darling ? '

Oh, John ! My poor, dear John ! What
will you do without me ? '

Without her ? I had no thought or fear
of being without her. What did it mean ?
I asked her over and over again, and for sole
answer there were the clinging arms and
silent tears, and now and again the little
figure shaken by a sob. I insisted, I besought,
I prayed her to be brave, and tell me
everything. I cudgelled my brains in a
troubled bewilderment for any reasonable

explanation of the grief and fear which
evidently beset her. At last she told me,
crying more and more softly, with her arms
about my neck and her flushed wet cheek
pressed against mine, that she would not livelong,
and that it broke her heart to think of
leaving me alone.

Not live long ? She was in the very
pride of health and strength. She had been
a little odd and fanciful of late, unreasonably
depressed at moments, gayer and brighter
than usual sometimes, without apparent
reason. But in danger? I know that if
there had been any solid fear, my heart, in
its natural rebellion against the thought of
severance, would have banished it to the
latest moment. I could realise that certainty,
even then, but I saw no cause for alarm at
all, and tried my tenderest best to laugh her
out of this singular fantasy. Finding that at
least it was no fantasy to her mind, I became
aware of a vague terror. I am no more
superstitious than the average run of men.

but I remembered all manner of legends of
fulfilled presentiment.

I helped her into the house, and having
bestowed her in an arm-chair and covered
her with unnecessary wraps, I found i\Iary,
and begging her to stay with my wife until
my return I ran off in haste for the nearest
doctor. Happily for the ending of my
anxiety, the nearest doctor chanced to be a
man of high repute, and was at home. I
told him the nature of my trouble, and he
heard the narrative with an inhuman smiling
calm, assumed his gloves and hat, and set
out with me. He was closeted with his
patient for the space of some five minutes, at
the end of which time he found me waiting
feverishly in the hall. I drew him through
the diningroom door, and questioned him.
Was there any danger '^. Was it anything
but a feminine fancy ?

My dear sir,' he responded, rubbing his
hands and smiling, 'it is a feminine fact.
There is not the faintest cause for anxiety,

but ladles in Mrs. Denham's condition are
liable to these attacks of despondency. You
must do your best to keep her mind upon a
level — a level, my good sir.' He described
the level in the air with two white, plump
hands, stooping a little as he did so, as if to
indicate that he would rather have the level
a little low down than otherwise. ' Her present
condition is everything that could be
desired. Positively everything that could be
desired. The one thing I should feel disposed
to recommend would be that you
should find for her, if possible, a discreet,
calm - minded, experienced, and affectionate
companion of her own sex.'

I dashed instantly at the bell, and rang,
not the mad peal I might have rung if I had
not suddenly remembered myself, but a
modest tinkle, barely audible.

You know such a lady ? ' asked the
doctor. * You are about to send for her ? '

She is in the house,' I answered. ' She
is thinking of leaving us. My wife is most

tenderly attached to her, and I traced her
despondency to that cause. Pray persuade
her to stay. You have only to tell her what
you have said to me, and I know that she
will not dream of leaving us.'

The maid entering the room at this instant,
in answer to my summons, I sent a message
to Miss Delamere, asking her to come for a
minute to the dining - room. When she
entered her face brightened at the sight of
the doctor, and the doctor's face brightened
at the sight of her.

Sister Constance ! ' he said, in a tone of
great pleasure. * I think we have found a
duty for you. I have just seen Mrs. Den-ham,
who has been alarming her husband
by a touch of low spirits and despondency,
very natural in her present state. He tells
me that this despondency is due to the fear
of your departure. Now a fixed despondency,
my dear Sister Constance, is a danger
in a case like this. We must avoid it if
we can.'

As soon as the doctor paused I hastened
to say that much as Clara and I had valued
her companionship we should be a hundredfold
more grateful for it now. I was so
urgent in my fear lest Clara's mind should
quit that level which the doctor seemed to
think desirable for her that she gave way at
once. I thanked her with all my heart, and
begged her without delay to tell Clara of the
promise she had made.

'That,' said the doctor, 'will be her
best medicine.' When Mary had gone, in
obedience to my request, he added, with a
queer kind of brusquerie which I understood
better later on, ' I'm glad she's left us,
because I wanted to say a word about her.
That woman, Mr. Denham,' laying an impressive
hand upon my shoulder, ' is an
angel.' He seemed almost angry about it,
and looked as if he would have liked me
to contradict the statement, but I assented
to it warmly. He lingered for a minute or
two, while he drew on his gloves, to say that

he had met her often in the pursuit of his
professional duties, and had formed a high
opinion of her. 'The loftiest, sir,' he said, —
the loftiest,' with the same tone of brusquerie
and defiance. With this, he went away, staying
only for a minute in the hall to tell me
that I was not to trouble him again unless I
saw actual need for it.

I was not at all surprised when Mary next
morning expressed her delight at my having
fallen upon Doctor Mason.

'I think,' she said, 'he is the kindest-hearted
creature in the world. People speak
of him as one of the hardest-working men in
London, but he spends a third of his time
in doctoring patients who cannot pay him a
penny.'

There are many such men in the ranks of
his profession. I remember, when I got to
know him intimately, as I did, telling him
one day that doctors were the only people in
the world who spent their lives in an earnest
endeavour to leave themselves nothing to do.

He twinkled over this, and answered, ' My
dear sir, we are all engaged in providing
work for generations of our successors. We
patch up the feeble.' I cornered him directly
afterwards by asking whether, if a medical
man found a means by which all disease and
sickness could be ended, he would make
his knowledge public. He thundered, ' By
heaven, yes, sir !' but added, ' we can be
quite easy on that head. Nobody will ever
find it'

To get back to my story, Mary stayed,
and was of infinite use and comfort, as
wherever she went she seemed to be. She,
at least, seemed to have found the level
necessary to a tranquil mind. Her mood
could rise sometimes to a gentle gaiety, but
if this had any corresponding depression,
no one but herself was allowed to know of it.
She went about the world in a placid, equable,
sweet calm, not sad, and yet with a touch of
sadness always in my contemplation of it.
Clara recovered her usual courage and good

Spirits almost immediately with the certainty
of not losing her companion, and though of
course her despondencies came back again
from time to time she fought an easier battle
with them than at first.

Mrs. Grantley and her brother, who was a
childless widower, were moving about Switzerland.
We heard of them from Basle, from
Zurich, from Thun, from Chamounix. There
was no knowing at any given moment where
they might be. They followed no settled
track or plan, but seemed to flit wherever
fancy led them. Clara's letter, announcing
the coming event, followed them about from
place to place for a month, but when once
it reached her Mrs. Grantley came flying
over with matronly solicitude, and in my
own house I became a cipher. It is a fact
in arithmetic that if you put any other figure
before a cipher that hitherto inexpressive
sign takes an immediate value. In household
affairs it is not so. I was the cipher,
and ever' other figure in the house, if it

were but clothed in petticoats, was before
me. But I acquired no value from this circumstance.


I heard all this while, at considerable
intervals only, occasional news of Pole. He
had been to the Piraeus and to Constantinople ;
thence he had wandered to the Crimea, to
look at the fields over which the fancy of
the whole world had hovered a few years
before. His letters expressed but little of
his feeling, but he woke up somewhat about
Inkerman and the Alma, and the empty
battered fortress of Sebastopol. Next I
heard of him as being bent back for Paris,
and in case all should go well at home I
promised myself an early meeting with him
there. Then a month went by without a
word from him, six weeks, two months.

I had kept up a friendly correspondence
with Macllray, and it was from him that I
heard my first news, after this pause, of the
missing wanderer. It caused me a good deal
of anxiety.

'Your friend, Lord Worborough,' wrote
Macllray, 'is back this seven weeks in the
capital of sin and foolishness. He is a bright,
manly fellow, and unless I am a greater fool
than I commonly am, he has plenty of natural,
rational lights to guide him. But if half the
stories that Paris is ringing with just now
are true, he has cut the last tether of reason,
and gone astray altogether. He has taken
an hotel, and has set it up in a very grand
fashion, and he has gathered about him the
wickedest, cleverest crowd in all the city.
He is not the lad to go to the mischief with
fools for his companions. His heart's in the
right place still, I'm thinking, and I'll tell you
a very characteristic thing of him, though I
must not be held as expressing my approval
of the expenditure of money so gotten in a
holy cause. The facts of the case are these,
and I have taken the pains to ascertain that
they are facts before writing them. There's
a certain blackguard here who's called the
Marquis de St. Marci, who's no less than a

VOL. Ill D

fiend with the cards and dice and other suchlike
tools of evil. He's a man of great
wealth, as rich, they say, as Lord Marlborough
himself. The two sat down together
this night week, and played so high that
Worborough won from the other body two
hundred and seventy-five thousand francs.
If you'll put this into English money, you'll
find that, bar the loss on the rate of exchange,
its total is eleven thousand English pounds
sterling. They played till noon, and then
the Marquis gave it up. Lord Worborough
distributed the money amongst five Parisian
charities next day. There's a saying in my
part of the world that what's got over the
devil's back is spent under his belly, and
though I'm far from arguing, as I'm sure you
know, that the money had better have been
put to base uses, I have a feeling that it's out
of accordance with the general fitness of
things that a sum so acquired should be spent
in such a fashion.'

I knew something of this Marquis de St.

Marci, and was strongly of opinion that any
money which found its way from his exchequer
to that of a charitable organisation had
changed hands with advantage to the world
at large. I was sorry to hear of him as
being one of Pole's companions, but I could
hardly believe that the connection was likely
to last long or to be familiar. Macllray's code
of morals was of the strictest old-fashioned
Scottish sort, and I knew so well that many
things condoned by the world at large would
seem wicked in his eyes, that I was able to
make considerable deductions from his story
of Pole's wildness. The news of this
gambling feat of his disturbed me profoundly,
however, though in my love for him and my
knowledge of his circumstances I was quick
to find excuses. The spoiled life, in which
it was so easy for him to fancy that every
avenue to happiness was closed, the great
wealth suddenly acquired, the rebound of
spirit and enterprise natural to his years, all
made apology for him. I fancied him grown

desperate and seeking distraction from the
emptiness of his own soul in these questionable
ways. I found some comfort in the
reflection that whithersoever his troubles
might drive him he could never cease to bea
gentleman, and an English gentleman to
boot. The English gentleman's creed is
sometimes a little heathen, but it saves him
from a good many things which the creed of
people otherwise bred and nurtured inspire
no repulsion for.

I had my own anxieties, and for a time at
least they were urgent enough to drive even
Pole's affairs from my mind, but in the end
all went happily, and my establishment was
increased in strength by one. The addition
to the garrison was an addition to the majority,
for the baby was a girl. She is now,
unless my fatherly partiality deceives me, a
very charming and beautiful young woman,
of the perter order of beauty. Having
defended myself beforehand by this statement,
I may be held excused for saying that

I was disappointed, and even shocked, by
her earliest aspect. I had been interested
in most things which had come into my
sphere of observation, but I had never before
found any real and inviting opportunity
of becoming interested in a baby. Her complexion
struck me as being far too florid. I
had doubts which were almost tragic as to
the future of her nose. The darkling scowl
she cast upon me at our first interview
lingered on my memory for hours. I never
dared to mention my misgivings, but the
chorus of approval raised by the whole
feminine contingent sounded in my ears like
the hollowed of mockeries. I examined, I
criticised, I inquired within myself; faintly, I
dared to hope. But, whilst grand mamma —
the world, I think, never held a prouder, or
one more conscious of her dignity — proclaimed
with sparkling eyes and heightened
colour that the baby was the living image of
her mother, and when the mother, with a
certainty of faith no doubt could have shaken,

cried aloud her discovery in that 
scowl of a resemblance to me, I felt
that both my wife and myself were humiliated
and maligned.

There are few things In the world which
introduce themselves with so little promise
to the masculine mind as a baby. But is
there anything else in the world which so
quickly knits itself about the heart ? I can
give voice to my misgivings now without
shame, because I know them to be common
to my sex. At that time I hid them, because
I honestly thought that I was a fiend among
fathers, a creature naturalised, and void of
the insight of affection.

The Sister Superior from that little, half-conventual
establishment off the Strand, had
been several times to see us. She came one
special Saturday afternoon, when by rare
hazard Mary was absent from her ordinary
duties amongst the poor. Clara, a little
fatigued by a morning drive, had gone upstairs
to rest, and Mary was nursing the

younger Clara, by this time between two
and three months old, when the Sister
Superior was announced. I was looking on
I dare say with a ver)^ visible fatherly complacency,
for by this time the terra-cotta
complexion had changed to a delicate pinky
white, and the scowl had given place to the
most innocent and engaging expression —
when the motherly lady entered. Baby was
crowing and gurgling in an inarticulate ecstasy
about something or other which neither of
us could understand, and ]diary was bending
over her like some mild ^vladonna in a picture,
with a smile so tender and innocent and
radiant that it fitly matched even the infantine
beauty of the child.

The motherly Sister Superior gurgled at
the baby, and stooped to kiss it. When she
raised her head she kissed the nurse, and
putting a plump, withered hand on either
cheek, looked at her affectionately, and said —

This is your place, my dear.'

When the following August brought the
second of my annual vacations, my whole
household uprooted itself, grandmamma,
mother, and baby, with all their inevitable
belongings, and started off for Switzerland.
Clara and I had spent an infinity of argument
on Mary, and had at length succeeded
in persuading her to accompany us. In old
days she had travelled a good deal with her
father, but he had led her chiefly to those
places which were of interest to himself, and
she had never seen the Alps. It was one of
the dreams of her life to see Mont Blanc,
but she would have resisted our invitations
to the last if we had not found an ally in
Dr. Mason, who insisted that a holiday was

necessary to her. On her visits amongst the
poor she still wore her half-conventual garb,
but she had long since set it aside for ordinary-occasions.


We made our first halt in Paris, and my
wife naturally knew well enough that I
meant to call upon Pole there. Neither
she nor Mary made any allusion to him in
my hearing, and when, on the day after our
arrival, I set out from the hotel alone, no
inquiries were made as to my proposed destination.
We were staying at an hotel in the
Rue de Tivoli, and I had but to cross the
Place du Carrousel, to walk a couple of hundred
yards to the right, and to cross the river
to reach Pole's residence on the Quai d'Orsay.
I had written from London, telling him of
the day on which I would call, and had expected
him to be alone to receive me. I
found him entertaining a dozen gentlemen
at breakfast, but he jumped up from his seat
at the head of the table when I was shown
into the room, and came forward to meet me

with a genuine friendly warmth. Whilst
his face was lit up at the first sight of me,
and for a moment or two afterwards, I did
not notice the change which had come upon
him. But when a seat had been found forme
at the table, and he had settled down
again, I had time to observe him. There
were no actual lines in his face, but, as it
were, a preparation for them. His expression
in silence was very mournful, and he
looked tired, and, as I could not help thinking,
cynical. He had always been a fair
linguist since I had known him, and now,
after his lengthy stay in Paris, he had
achieved such an ease and elegance in
French as Englishmen rarely attain to.
Excepting himself, I was the only Englishman
at the table, and I had known beforehand
that he associated but lite with his
countrymen.

The talk was wonderfully bright and light,
with now and aofain a touch of seriousness in
it, which, though it was never more than

momentary, served to give it a flavour of
reason. The names of most of the guests
were familiar to me, and were familiar to
everybody who knew anything of art, letters,
and poetics in Paris. During my own brief
journaHstic sojourn there I had seen, on first
nights of theatrical representations, in famous
studios, and in the parliamentary ranks in
the Chamber of Representatives, most of the
faces which surrounded me, and I was
pleased to find myself one of an assembly
so distinguished.

The table was spread with a sumptuous
refinement, the wines were something to remember,
but the talk was the best part of
the meal. It was self-conscious and warlike
the dangerous extremities of a tumbler,
but like those same extremities, it was graceful
and assured, and looked so easy as to tempt
one to the belief that oneself could do it. It
glanced and glittered and posed, and everybody
laughed at its pretty, daring, wayward
ways ; but keeping a watchful eye on my old

friend I could see that below his surface
gaiety there was a deep-rooted and constant
sadness. He was as keen and ready as any
of his guests, but his good things were biting,
and at times almost savage. Several times
in the course of the breakfast I heard one or
other of his cronies allude to him as the
pessimist, and that indeed seemed to be his
accepted title.

Breakfast over, we adjourned to an apartment
in which the arrangement of the furniture
struck me at first sight as being curious.
The room was large and sumptuous, but from
the centre of it every article had been cleared
away, with the exception of a small table with
a green baize top, and a brace of chairs,
which stood one on either side of it. Other
chairs there were in plenty, lounges, caul
and what not, but these were all
drawn away, as if for the accommodation of
a standing gallery round the little green-baize
-topped table. Amongst the guests
was one man, and one man only, whose

face I disliked. He was handsome, after a
Mephistopheles, wicked fashion, but he was
prematurely wrinkled and elderly, and looked
altogether cruel, cunning, and untrustworthy.
I was not long in discovering that this personage
was no other than the Marquis de St.
Marci. I was not long in discovering either
that the whole object of the gathering was to
witness a match between the Marquis and
Lord Worborough at ecarte. Pole, it appeared,
had been challenged to a game of
three hours' duration at stakes almost unheard
of, and, since he had won heavily from his
opponent, had accepted the defiance.

Cigars and cigarettes were lit, two men
were appointed, one in the interest of each of
the players, to mark the score, Pole and his
opponent took their seats at the table, and
the game began. I made my first acquaintance
with ecarte that day, and have never
followed up the introduction, so that I am
unable to describe the play. I suppose it to
have been very skilful on both sides, from

the rapt eagerness with which it was watched
by the little crowd about the table. There
was a noble pendule upon the mantelpiece
with a bronze figure, half life-size, poised
upon the top of it, and when two o'clock
sounded the first deal was made. I did not
like the proceedings at all, and, in point of
fact, I felt a kind of inward protesting rage
against them, but before the game had gone
on for a quarter of an hour I was as passionately
and eagerly absorbed as any devotee
at the shrine of chance there present. At
first the run of luck was all in Pole's favour,
but the Marquis was as calm and cool as if
he had been playing for farthings. Many of
the men standing round had little note-books,
in which they cast up the results of the game
as it progressed. They showed these at
intervals with shrugging of the shoulders,
lifted eyebrows, and pale, excited smiles to
other men who had kept no count. In a
mere half-hour the total of Pole's winnings
doubled my annual income from all sources.

I do not know whether it is so with all
men, but for myself, though I am not, nor
ever have been, anything of a gambler, there
is an extraordinary fascination in looking on
at games of mingled chance and skill. This
particular encounter is historical in gaming
circles, and, I suppose, it is no wonder that
it excited me, even apart from my interest in
one of the players. When Pole had a reverse
I trembled lest the whole course of events
should go against him ; when he won I trembled
with triumph, and between coup and coup
I trembled with excitement. The players sat
quiet, like a pair of fates, and were apparently
the least moved and interested of all
the people there. Only I began to notice a
certain strained look about the eyes of Pole's
opponent. He had had a clear and rather
hectic flush of colour on the cheek when he
sat down first at the table, and this flush of
colour spread gradually until the under and
upper eyelid were charged with it.

He called for new cards at the expiration

of the first half-hour, but they brought him
no better fortune than the old. The game
still went against him, and though every
minute was filled and overfilled with interest,
the plaintive voice of the pendule chiming
three fell upon my ear long before it was
expected. Again the Marquis de St. Marci
called for new cards, and still the run of luck
went against him. I was beginning to pity
him when it turned, and for a clear hour
thenceforward he took everything before
him at such a pace that the positions of the
two began to be reversed, and Pole became
a loser. When four o'clock sounded Pole
was some twenty thousand francs to the bad,
and after that the game fluctuated in brief
rushes, each one of which, to my overstrained
fancy, seemed likely to lead to final victory
and defeat. It became evident at length that
Pole was losing beyond all doubt. Allowing
for the best possible good fortune in the
last half-hour, he could not expect to make
his losses good ; and when five sounded and

the game was over he rose the loser, in round
money, of twelve thousand pounds. It appeared
that he had prepared himself for this
contingency, for he drew out a cheque-book
and wrote a cheque for the amount before
rising, and passed it over to the Marquis,
who accepted it with smiling thanks, and
buttoned it up in his pocket-book.

After this the little assembly of celebrities
melted away with great rapidity, and in half
an hour Pole and I were left to ourselves.
He lit a cigarette, and threw himself upon a
sofa with a worn-out air.

'It's a pretty game,' he said laughingly,
'but ecarte's like life. No man can play
against the cards. I began too well to go on
well, and I knew at the end of the first half-hour
that I was bound to lose. Win first,
lose last. That's as true as anything can be
in a world where everybody's predictions are
bound, more or less, to be falsified.'

I have confessed already that I had been
carried away by my excitement over the

VOL. Ill E

game, and it is quite possible that if Pole's
success had continued my interest in it might
have endured until the close ; but during
that last half-hour in which he had been
obviously doomed to failure I had found
ample time to cool, and I had come back to
commonsense, even if, as often happens, I
had taken a roundabout way to it. One takes
the wrong way to common-sense at times,
and gets switched back to it in a surprising
fashion. In point of fact, common-sense lives
in so many places that even the most errant
of travellers can hardly avoid an occasional
encounter with her.

'You look severe, John,' said Pole, raising
himself on one elbow idly, and regarding me
across the little cloud of smoke which had
just left his lips. ' You disapprove of these
things ? You would rather see a man with
my income and position engage his fortune
in the amelioration of the world at large ?
Why, so would I ; but then, you see,' he
went on with an idle bitterness impossible to

describe, ' one develops, as philosophers are
teaching us, in the direction where one
encounters the least resistance.'

I was somewhat wearied by the excitement
of the afternoon, and a little abashed inwardly
by the memory of my own share in it, so
that for a minute or two I found no heart
to answer him. By the time I had recovered
myself enough to know what my own honest
and natural emotions really were, the time for
an answer seemed to have gone by, and I kept
silence, though many things occurred to meas
being worth the trouble of saying.

At the beginning of the play the sun had
shone into the room so brightly that it had
been found necessary to draw the curtains asa
shield against it. Half-way through the
game they had been partly retired again, and
now a single broad beam glared upon the
pier-glass and its gold border, near the ceiling.
The plaintive, silvery voice of the pendule
chimed again, and the room seemed to sink
into the shadow of the great house which

Stood at the west and to the rear. The last
glow of broad day departed from the chamber,
and Pole and I were left in a half twilight,
which seemed the more obscure because of
that lately-vanished blaze.

*I can't see now,' he said, 'whether you
look severe or not, but I suppose you feel
severe.'

I feel sorry,' I answered him.

'That,' he responded, 'is a little worse
than feeling severe. I'd a great deal rather
that you didn't feel sorry about me, Jack.
I think, all things considered, it might be
happier for you and me if we missed each
other altogether, and made up our minds to
take different ways.'

I asked him if he thought it likely that
we could forget each other if we lived ever
so far apart, and, rising from the sofa he was
lounging on, he crossed over and took a seat
near me. I do not know that it is necessary
at any time to analyse memories and emotions,
but I know distinctly that his dim

figure lounging across the room at me with
his hands in his pockets and his head thrown
backwards, the very manner in which he
dropped into the chair he chose, and the
attitude he took there, reminded me of a
time when he and I had both supposed his
troubles to be over. I do not think, calling
to mind our whole career together, that at
any moment in it I had loved him so well or
pitied him so profoundly. We are bound
nowadays to keep cool, and to hide, even
when we cannot choke, our emotions, but if
I had followed the instinct of my own heart
at that moment I should have put my arms
around him and have cried like a child or a
woman. As it was I burst into an unreasonable
anger. It was my only refuge from
myself. But I think he understood me.

You have no right,' I said, ' to make this
kind of thing the occupation of your life.'

Granted,' he answered. ' So far as I can
see one has no right to anything. When the
beaten mule has no pleasure left him but to

kick over the traces, and when he always
gets beaten for doing it by that angelic monitor
which tries to govern mules — eh, Jack,
isn't it rather hard for him if his fellow-mule
comes to bray reproach at him ? '

I understood it all, and told him so.

It's only the superior intelligence that
understands,' he said. ' Don't you think
you're a shade too young to be able honestly
to take that tone with me ? '

I was silent at this, and sat in a sort of sick
amazement at it.

Don't be angry, Jack,' he said suddenly.
There's a kind of stuff that is purified by
many fires. You can't give it too many to
burn the dross out of it. But there's another
kind of stuff that gets to be all dross if you
burn it too long and too often.' We were
quiet for a time, and then he asked me,
Did you ever hear me growl till now ? Look
here, Jack,' he went on, ' I've looked at it
pretty often. What have I got to do '^. Go
and take my seat in the House and make

speeches and make a name ? I've thought
about it. Turn philanthropic landlord and
interest myself in the cause of the tenant
farmer and the labourer ? I've thought
about that too, and I think I make my people
pretty easy. But Lady Worborough's in
the police court now and then, and I can't
show up. I have to hide myself. I have
to sing small. I have to exile myself from
my own country and the work I would do,
if I had the chance to do it.'

Lady Worborough in the police court ? '
I cried. ' What do you mean ? '

One comes from home to learn news of
home,' he answered bitterly. 'You haven't
heard 1 '

I have heard nothing,' I answered. ' I
have had no news of Lady Worborough for
the greater part of a year.'

'You read only the respectable journals,'
he responded. ' You don't know the Flag of
Liberty, the palladium of the people, the
weekly sheet which proclaims to its own

public that everybody with a handle to his
name is a scoundrel by rule of Magna Charta.
I have the advantage of reading an occasional
column about her ladyship and myself. The
indignant writer demonstrates the fact that
I am a personage of the basest extraction,
and therefore have a right to be virtuous ;
but he shows also that I am a lord, and, by
accretion of title and income, vicious. He
proves the same things of her ladyship, and
is eloquent about the closing phrase of the
police reports, '' The fine was paid." I have a
round dozen of printed documents upstairs.
I'll show them to you, if you care to see
them. I owe them to some anonymous friend
of mine, who sends them to me by the
earliest post, and sometimes writes beforehand
to advise me that they are coming.'

He might, by the sound of his voice, have
been talking about the most indifferent
theme in the world. Finding that I answered
nothing, he arose and strolled out of the
room, returning after a brief absence with

what turned out to be a pocket-book in his
hand. He threw this upon the table, and
told me that if I wanted intelligence of Lady
Worborough it was there in plenty. He drew
the curtains wide apart, and the room was
light again. I took the pocket-book from
the table and glanced at its contents — scraps
of newspapers of different dates. The merest
look was enough, and I returned them.

When you know that a man is as thoroughly
persuaded of the folly of his own course as
you yourself can be, it is of little use to argue
with him. I bethought me of Pole's declaration
about the trust in which he held
his fortune ; but I was certain that he also
remembered it, and it would have been
gratuitously stupid to remind him of it.

Since I had to pass through Paris,' I said
lamely, ' I couldn't help looking you up.'

Xo," he said ; ' I expected you to call.'

There was a change in both of us since
the hearty reception at mid-day ; but I knew
that my own cold unhappiness grew out of

the change in him, and that my presence at
the spectacle of his extravagant gambling
was answerable for that.

We are going on to Brussels tomorrow,'
I said. ' Clara wants to make a flying call
upon some friends there. I suppose we shall
see no more of each other for a while ? '

No,' he answered, ' I suppose not. Are
you alone, you two ? '

I told him that Miss Delamere was with
us, and Mrs. Grantley.

Ah, well,' he said, * that ends it ; ' as if
he had had some thought of joining us until
he knew of Mary's presence.

I said something about having to get back
in time for dinner, and added that my absence
would already be wondered at. We
shook hands as though we were the most
commonplace of acquaintances, and he descended
into the hall with me. We repeated
our good-byes there, and I went away as
unhappy as I can remember to have been at
any time. No comment was made by any

member of our party upon my absence. We
dined at the table d'hote, amid a loud chatter
of talk and the wild rushes of overworked
waiters, and there was bustle and noise
enough to distract attention from me. To
have sat out a quiet dinner without my forced
hilarity and frequent depression being noticed
would have been impossible, but in this scene
of noise and animation I escaped. The ladies
had been sight-seeing in my absence, and
were all a little tired. I was glad to get away
from them, and sauntering in the fast growing
darkness under the shade of the trees in
the Champs Elysees, I thought over the day's
experience. Over and over again I made up
my mind to go back to Pole and speak my
heart out to him, but the purpose always
failed me.

When it had grown quite dark I made
my way back to the hotel, and as I emerged
from the broad promenade into the street I
became aware of a solitary sombre figure
standing there. It moved on as I approached,

and I recognised Pole's step and carnage.
The street was very quiet. In the rear the
innumerable lamps of the Place de la Concorde,
themselves invisible, made a yellow
haze upon the darkness, and the long single
line of lights upon the streets twinkled away
into the distance with a diminishing brightness.
Pole walked on and I followed, half
resolving at almost every footstep to accost
him. He took no note of my footsteps behind
him, and I gradually allowed myself to
fall farther and farther in the rear. I saw
him pause opposite the hotel and look up at
its windows. He raised his hat and stood
bare-headed for an instant, and then moved
on again. I walked after him until he had
passed the hotel by a hundred yards, when
he turned, and we encountered each other.
He was going by without recognising me,
but I hailed him.

That you. Jack ?' he said, in a different
voice from that in which he had last addressed
me. He passed his arm through

mine, and we walked for a considerable distance
without speaking. My heart was so
hot with friendship, and so sore and tender
with regrets, that I could not trust myself
to speak. He led me back to the Champs
Elysees, where the moon, which was late in
rising, had just begun to make an uncertain
glory in the sky.

Tell me about Mary,' he said suddenly.
How is she ? What does she do ? Is she
happy, or contented Tell me all about her.'

There was not much to tell in the story
of that life of silent heroism, self-conquest,
and self-denial, and what little there was I
told badly, being indeed afraid to trust myself
too far.

I believe,' he said simply, 'that she cared
for me as. much as ever a woman cared for a
man in this world. Heaven knows I was
never worth it, but then a man's worthiness
has nothing to do with such a matter. There
isn't a trouble I have that she doesn't share,
and she has enough and to spare of her own.

They're better than we are, Jack. They're
stronger, and purer, and more patient.'

Finding him in this changed and softened
mood, I opened out my heart to him. There
is no need to try to repeat here what I said
to him. I had no right to preach, but every
man, however weak he knows himself to be,
has the right to hold out a hand of help and
fellowship.

'You're right, Jack,' he said. 'Say no
more about it. Paris is no place for me, and
mine for this year past has been no life for
an honest man to lead. I have known it all
along. I shall get away tomorrow. I don't
know yet where I shall go or what I shall
do, but I'll try to find something worth doing,
and I'll try to do it. Good-night, Denham.
Don't come any farther with me just now.
Good-bye, and God bless you.'

We parted there, and I watched him ashe
walked away in the gathering moonlight
until he was hidden in the shadows of the
avenue.

Except for the fact that it led to my encounter
with Pole, the family trip to Switzerland
would have found no place in this
history. It was enjoyed and left behind,
and late in the autumn we all came home
again, every one of us brimming over with
health and energy, from grand mamma to
baby. We settled down into our accustomed
courses in a day or two. My valuable
services not being required again by the
country until Parliament met, I devoted
myself to my literary work. Mrs. Grantley
took friendly leave of us, and went back to
Grantley Holme and her brother the Major,
Clara settled down to the superintendence
of the household, and Mary resumed her

suspended labours among the poor. She
would, as I learned from Clara, have abandoned
her distinguishing dress altogether,
but for the fact that the people amongst
whom she laboured had grown accustomed
to it, and to part with it would have been to
invite curiosity.

My own inquiries had so long led me to
a tolerably close acquaintance with the class
among whom she laboured that it was out
of no curiosity with respect to their condition
that I sometimes availed myself of an
unoccupied hour to accompany her upon her
rounds. I had an idea when I first offered
her my companionship, that it would be
pleasant to see how she dealt with the people,
and I certainly found that idea verified. It
was pleasant to see how that mild presence
brought comfort to the sick and troubled,
and to witness the unfailing respect with
which the roughest blackguards of her
quarter greeted her. I had a talk with one
gentleman, I remember, who was the terror

of Green Hill Lane, a rather difficult neighbourhood
for any single individual to be a
terror to. What this gentleman did for a
living during the limited periods for which
he kept out of jail I am unable to say, but
he took a pride in dressing like one of the
old-fashioned tribe of coal-heavers, in shorts,
hollows, and gray worsted stockings. He
was sunning his ponderous calves on a doorstep
and smoking a short clay there, one
afternoon, when Mary and I came upon him
together. He was a sulky, ill-conditioned
looking fellow, but he gave her an actual
smile of welcome as he got up to make way
for her to enter the house.

'You again, mum?' he said, with gruff
civility. ' I thought we'd seen the last of
you, mum.' Mary answered that she had
been away for her health. ' I 'ope you've
got it, mum,' he said. 'You are a lookin'
better than you was.'

She thanked him, and passed within doors,
and I, waiting for her in the street, tried to

VOL. Ill F

enter into converse with her acquaintance.
He received my advances with marked distrust,
and resuming his pipe sat down again
upon the doorstep and smoked with an obviously
contemptuous disregard of my presence.
When I endeavoured, in spite of
this unpromising beginning, to continue the
conversation, he looked up at me surlily.

Look 'ere,' he said. ' Who are you ?
What are you ? What are you driven' at ?
Who are you train' to get at ? I didn't
address my conversation to you, did I }
What do you want to address your conversation
to me for ? '

I told him I did not like this pride and
stand-selfishness between man and man, and
added that if a duke were to speak to me I
should try to treat him civilly.

That's a noo lay,' said my new acquaintance.
' Anything does as long as you can
edge the patter in, don't it, guv'nor ? Just
get a start, so as a cove can't stop you, then
you can sling it in to your heart's content,

can't you ? What's the Hne ? Is it gospel,
or teetotal, or the papers ? I knows 'em.
Don't you talk to me. I can get as much o'
your kind o' chin-music as I wants when I'm
in quod.'

Do you care to know what my lay is ?'
I asked him.

No, guv'nor,' he responded. ' If you
puts it plain, I don't.'

'Come,' I urged, 'you didn't treat the
lady in this way.'

No,' he said, dexterously expectorating
without removing his pipe from his lips, ' I
didn't, guv'nor. But you see you ain't a
lady. And if you was, it's about a hundred
million to one as I shouldn't.'

You wouldn't treat me in that way if I
were a lady ?' I asked him. * Why not?'

'Cos,' he answered, as sulkily as ever,
it'd be a thousand million to one as you
wouldn't be a patch on her. When I meets
a lady as knows how to be a lady, why then
I takes my 'at off to her like a man. Why

not ? Do you think a cove can't tell a lady
when he sees her? There's plenty of 'em
comes round here a pickin' up their petticoats,
stepping' fine and talking' thin and
pretty. Ladies ? Ladies be blowed ! I
knows 'em when I sees 'em. Don't you talk
to me.'

After this he subsided to a bull - dog
silence. I always made a point of carrying
a well-stocked tobacco pouch with me upon
this sort of journey. I produced it now, and
held it out to him with a request that he
would help himself.

*I don't ask,' he observed, ' for no man's
charity. I can always buy as much back
as I wants, and if I couldn't I should nick
it*

When Mary emerged from the house this
uncompromising personage seemed abashed
in the memory of his former politeness, and
merely growled, 'Good afternoon, mum,' ashe
stood aside to let her pass. I told her as
we went along together of the testimonial to

her ladyhood which I had just received. She
seemed rather pained than pleased by it, and
she told me that there were some obviously
well-intentioned people visiting in the neighbourhood,
who spent both time and money
in the service of the poor, but, she added, I
could hardly imagine how little tact they
had.

If you want to get near these people,'
she said, 'you must not remember such a
thing as social difference. You must forget
that it exists. If you only pretend to forget
they are very quick and keen to find you
out. But if you really forget it they are at
ease at once, though they never for an instant
forget it themselves. I am afraid that
you may think I am growing democratic, but
I really think there are as nice people here
as one meets elsewhere. Their manners
and their ways of speech are not ours, but
apart from those things, which matter a good
deal of course, there are some real ladies and
gentlemen here.'

One hears this sort of statement made in
pure cant sometimes, by people who do not
in the slightest little degree believe it in
their hearts. But Mary did believe it, and
I suppose that her belief afforded one of the
truest reasons for her success.

There are some amongst them,' she went
on, ' who have really been ladies and gentlemen.
A good many, of course, are pretenders,
and exaggerate the better times
they have seen, but some have really fallen
from complete respectability.'

As she talked thus, we passed by a
noisome well of a court, where a group of
women were loudly discussing some topic of
general interest. I caught the voluble, shrill
rattle of an Italian voice, and one woman,
with her hands waving high in the air, was
screaming, ' Mais, Madame, je vous jure,' as
we went by. This court was the sorrow-fullest
part of Green Hill Lane, though the
whole thoroughfare was sorrowful enough.
The fronts of its houses seemed to have

known no cleansing or renovating touch
since the hour of their erection. From the
pavement to the sills of the shop windows
the walls were caked with the mud which
had been splashed upon them by the feet of
generations of wayfarers. The paint of the
woodwork was smothered with bubbles, like
a sort of seaweed, and the window-panes
were encrusted with the residuum of hundreds
of fogs, and smeared with the rain of uncounted
storms. The houses huddled together
from one end of the lane to the other
without a single break on either side, except
the one made by that noisome well of a court,
and the lane was so narrow that a single
hackney carriage would have filled It from
kerb to kerb. The Inhabitants of the lane
did at home what little washing they had todo,
and the windows of the wretched houses
were always garnished by vandyked rags
of dingy white, as If In satire of festivity,
or as if the King of Poverty's Miseries
were coming that way on a ghastly gala day.

and his subjects were in readiness to receive
him.

We were perhaps twenty yards beyond
the court when a slipshod footstep sounded
behind us, and a shrill voice cried out, ' Soeur,
soeur, ma soeur ! ' Mary and I turned at
this call together, and I recognised the
Frenchwoman who had been exclaiming in
the court.

You speak French, my sister?' said the
woman. Mary answered in the affirmative,
and she poured out a story so voluble and in
so marked a southern accent, half patois and
half French, that it was almost impossible to
follow her. We made out enough to know
that somebody was in urgent need of help,
and we turned round with the woman at
once, and accompanied her into the court,
she talking all the while with a passionate,
voluble eloquence only half comprehensible.
At a sign from Mary I remained in the
court, whilst she entered at a low-browed
door, and disappeared. A little Italian man

on crutches, with a dark, wrinkled, wizened
visage Hke that of a preternaturally wise
and amiable ape, clattered across the broken
pavement of the court, and opened fire upon
me in his own language. He had talked fora
minute before I could make him understand
that I spoke no Italian, but addressing
him in French I discovered that he had a
fair mastery of that language, and asked him
to speak in it.

He went on, more slowly, but with an
eagerness which made him stumble at every
phrase. Let Monsieur figure it to himself
then, that a person so exalted should thus
have fallen. There are those who would not
believe, though the skies fall about them.
They would have the birds in their fingers,
and would not believe that the skies had
fallen. But, for himself, he had travelled
the world. He had been here, there, and
everywhere. Monsieur might not credit,
finding him in surroundings so degraded,
yet Monsieur was obviously a gentleman.

and had perhaps travelled and made himself
acquainted with the reverses of fortune. He,
the crutch-supported cripple, had once been
concierge in an hotel at Naples. He knew
the world. He could tell a gentleman when
he saw him, and a lady — Gran Dio, a lady! —
who, that had once had the habitude to behold
ladies of the great world, could doubt
when he beheld one? Monsieur had, without
doubt, remarked the pride in their faces.
What right had the poor with pride ? The
great and the rich were born to it. When
once he had found the person between these
two eyes — very bright and piercing and eloquent
eyes they were — he had heard a voice
within him which had said, Behold no vulgar
person! In his own land the thing was impossible,
because the cause was impossible.

I arrested this voluble old Italian, and
offered him leading questions. There was a
lady here, a lady, heavens, yes! a lady. The
blind and foolish derided her claim, and
people made a scoff of her, and pointed at

her, and hooted after her because of it. Who
was she ? He could not tell. These foreign
names were so long and so rough. The
tongue stiffened and the teeth flew before
they could be spoken. What was she doing
here ? Doing here ? Great heaven, she was
dying here. Dying of hunger, of want of
medicines. The hospitals had rejected her,
professing that she was cured.

I was standing with my back half-turned
to the doorway by which Mary had entered,
when the crippled old Italian stopped short
in his swift, stammering speech, and stared
across my shoulder. Before I could turn, his
crutches and the withered legs they helped
were skimming over the broken pavement.
I swung round in some amaze at this, and
there, in sudden terror, I saw Mary, with
one hand feebly clutching at the door jamb,
her face as colourless as the bands of white
which surrounded it, and her figure half supported
by the woman who had but a moment
before summoned us from the street. I ran

forward swiftly, and relieved the woman of
her burden.

'What is it?' I asked. 'What is the
matter ? '

She wrung her hands together, and made
a little incoherent moaning noise, before she
turned upon me. I was as unsuspicious then
of the staring truth as I had been an hour
before.

'You are ill,' I said. 'Let me help you
into the air.'

I half assisted, half carried her into the
court, and one of the women brought a
rickety chair, and another a cracked teacup
of water. I helped her to the seat, and held
the cup to her lips. She drank a little of
the water, and was revived by It. She made
an effort to rise, but I checked her, and she
kept her place. Her gray eyes, looking
extraordinarily large and dark, met mine,
and I saw that they were full of pain and
trouble. She made a great effort to collect
herself.

Get first,' she said, ' some extract of beef,
and a bote of wine. Take the first turning
to the right that way, and you will find a
street of decent shops. Bring the things
back at once, and then go for a doctor.
Oh, pray don't wait to think of me. I was
shocked for the moment, but I am well again.
Pray go ! go at once ! You see I am well.
There is no need to stay here.'

I could only suppose that some one was
hovering between life and death, and had
instant need of support and stimulus. I tore
out of the court, ran the length of the lane in
the direction she had indicated, and searching
up and down came upon an Italian warehouse,
where I bought a tin of beef extract,
and a grocer, from whom I bought a bottle
of port. I ran back with these, and found
that Mary had already re-entered the house.
The Frenchwoman who had accosted us in
the street took the things from my hands
and rushed upstairs with them, returning
almost immediately with instructions to me

to find a doctor. I hurried back into the
street, and by good hap finding a cab there,
drove at once in pursuit of Dr. Mason. He
was not at home, but the servant who
answered my summons at the door was able
to tell me where to intercept him, and ten
minutes later we were driving back together.
I was considerably disquieted about Mary,
and told the doctor that he might expect to
have more patients than one. The Frenchwoman
was eagerly waiting for us when we
arrived, and began to rain down blessings on
the doctor, who, as I then discovered, was
already known in that quarter. The two
ascended together, and I was left alone once
more, this time for the space of some ten
minutes. Then the doctor came down alone.
Miss Delamere is all right again,' he
said, 'and you need have no fear about her.
She seems, however, to have made a very
extraordinary discovery, and she wants you to
go upstairs and verify it. You're not easily
shocked yourself, are you ? Wait a bit. I '11

tell you the story. There is a woman upstairs
suffering from spinal paralysis. She
was knocked down by a cab in the street
some two months ago, and was taken to St.
Bartholomew's Hospital. She stayed there
a week or two, and was then dismissed as
cured. Since then she has been very queer
at times, and now, for nearly a week, nobody
has seen her until an hour ago. Then, her
fellow-lodgers breaking into her room, find
her almost dead. The lower extremities are
useless, and want of sustenance has so far
prostrated her that another day might have
done her business. You're a personal friend
of Worborough's, and that's the reason why I
take the trouble to prepare you. She claims
to be Lady Worborough.'

I WALKED up and down the court for an
hour after Dr. Mason's departure, an object
of interest to all the boyhood of the neighbourhood,
and all the slatternly little girls
who nursed babies. These thronged the
narrow entrance of the court, scattering with
screams whenever I walked towards them,
and gathering compactly together again
whenever I walked away, until at last long
immunity gave them courage and they stood
in rapt wonder at the apparition of gloves, a
new hat, and clean linen in that unexpected
quarter. Mary appeared In the doorway,
and I hastened to meet her. To a casual
and unobservant eye there would have been
no sign of excitement in her aspect, but I,

who knew what strange reason she had for
amazement and emotion, could see that she
had not yet recovered.

Have these people,' she asked, ' or has
the doctor told you anything of the sick
woman's identity ? ' I answered with a mere
motion of the head. 'She is asleep,' INIary
continued, in a half-whisper, as if there had
been already need for caution. * You may
see her. You will know her ? ' I signified
assent again. ' Come this way. Tread
softly.'

The air in the court itself was foul and
heavy, but it was free and pure by comparison
with that which crawled about the
staircase. The gloom there seemed a natural
part of the air's weight and closeness. The
wretched stair creaked and complained beneath
our footsteps. We mounted to the
third story, and there Mary slowly pushed
open a door which jarred and shrieked upon
its hinges in spite of all her caution, and
motioned me to enter. I went in on tiptoe,

VOL. Ill G

and took in the squalor of the chamber at a
glance, the smoky time-stained walls, green
in places with some bygone winter's rains,
the cracked, uneven floor, the broken plaster
of the ceiling, where the bare laths showed
like a desert map of unknown countries ; the
single window, with a shattered pane stuffed
with rag, the grate, with the dead ashes of
an old fire in it. There was no bed in the
room, but on the floor a huddled heap of
sacking, with wood shavings thickly spread
below it. A cloak that had once been elegant
covered the form of a woman sleeping on this
miserable couch. The face was hidden, buta
mass of disorderly black hair streamed
across the impoverished coverlet, with a small
ear shining in ghastly and exaggerated whiteness
amongst its disordered coils. Between
the couch and the door was a small table,
drawn a little to one side, so that it did not
intercept the view. I advanced, still on tiptoe,
and laying my hands on this, bent forward,
and surveyed the sleeping woman's

face. It was strangely changed from the
face I had seen when I had last parted from
her, but I knew it instantly. By what wild
recklessness or what disaster she had so far
stripped herself of the means of livelihood as
to have fallen to such a refuge as this in so
short a space of time I could not guess, but
there was no doubt as to her identity.

Once assured, I turned away, and cautiously
retraced my steps. Mary stood in
the half gloom of the landing, and when she
saw me her eyes asked a question. Mine
answered it, and with a swift and nervous
gesture she took both my hands, and held
them tightly.

You are sure ? ' she whispered.

Sure,' I whispered back again.

She motioned me downstairs, and I
obeyed her, she following in my footsteps.
Half-way down she laid a hand upon my
shoulder and arrested me.

I must not leave her,' she said. ' I must
not leave her for a moment. She is so nearly

exhausted that nothing but the most constant
care can save her. Tell Clara that I shall
not be able to get home to-night.'

She spoke even now in a guarded tone,
and I instinctively answered her in the same
fashion.

You must have help,' I said. ' You must
not be allowed to wear yourself away. I
shall call at the nurses' institute, and send
you an assistant. Then, when your relief
arrives, you must come home.'

I do not think,' she answered, ' that I
shall dare to leave her for a time. You forget.
I have had experience lately. I shall be glad
of assistance. It was thoughtful, and like
you, to think about it. Go now, and be sure
that Clara is not alarmed.'

I was half-way down the remainder of the
stairs when I heard the rustle of her dress
again behind me. When I turned I could
see dimly a pained and confused look upon
her face, and I fancied she was blushing,
though I was uncertain in the gloom.

I have no money, John. Things will be
wanted. Lord Worborough will repay you.'

So far as I knew that was the only
mention of his name she had made since she
had learned of my discovery of Pole's wife in
Paris. I gave her my purse, and told her to
spare nothing that was needful, and she went
upstairs again. For an instant, before the
first turning took her out of sight, her beautiful
pale face hung in the gloom like the
pictured head of a saint. The black robe
melted into the surrounding shadows, and
only the face, with the band of white across
the forehead, was half visible. Then this
floated away, and I went down the steps and
out of the court alone.

It had never entered my mind to believe
that the miserable woman I had just left
behind would have pushed her resolution not
to accept the allowance her husband offered
her to such a point as this. I had supposed,
as almost anybody would have done in my
place, that we had but to wait until she felt

the first touch of necessity to receive her
capitulation in form. We knew perfectly
well that her desire for vengeance on Pole
weighed far more heavily with her than any
sense that she was being defrauded of her
rights. At the time of her marriage with
Pole, if she had ever contemplated a separation
from him, a fifth part of the income I
had offered in her husband's behalf would
have seemed an actually munificent allowance.


I wondered how Pole would take the news
of this victorious obstinacy, and on my way
homeward I called at a telegraph station and
sent off two despatches, each addressed to
him, the one through his steward, and the
other through his solicitor, requesting his
immediate presence in London. I had just
loose silver enough to pay for the messages.
It was quite uncertain when I should hear
from Pole, for he had closed his house in
Paris, and was wandering again, I knew not
where. It might even be weeks before he

^ ^

would communicate with either of his men
of business, and it was possible that even the
most serious events might happen without
his knowledge. It is curious to notice how
even in one's thoughts one shrinks from the
actual confession of certain things. I know
now, and I knew then, that the most serious
events meant nothing more or less than the
one great serious event of all. Brought face
to face with a problem which happily but
few people can ever have to look at seriously,
I felt a something strange and dreadful In
the sense that it was the bounden duty of
every creature concerned to strain every
intelligence and every effort to conserve a
life which cursed its owner and spread a
bllorht on all who knew her. Not the best
loved, not the most useful and most highly
honoured, not the very centre of benevolence
and wisdom, would lay a greater claim upon
skill, patience, tenderness, than this self-scorning
centre of unhappiness. The very
knowledge of her own poor deserving would

have to be a spur to conscience, lest there
should be even an inward self-accusing
whisper of neglect.

Clara was disturbed by the news I had to
give her, chiefly on Mary's account.

I know what will happen,' she said.
She will take this as a case of conscience,
a thousand times more even than any other,
and if she is not taken care of she will watch
herself to death. Where is this place, John ?
You must find a professional nurse and get
Mary away.'

This reminded me of my own undertaking,
and I told Clara of it.

'See to it at once,' she said. 'You will
find a nurse immediately. Take her with
you in a cab, and bring Mary back with
you.'

It was easy to give orders in this impetuous
manner. But what, I asked, if
Mary would not come ?

Tell her,' Clara answered, ' that I myself
will go and compel her to come home and

take her natural night's rest. I know, John ;
it's very angelic, but it isn't common-sense.
I'm not going to have the life of that darling
girl, who sweetens the world for everybody
who knows her, thrown away, or even risked,
for a worthless creature who only lives to
make herself and other people miserable. If
the poor woman is in such a den as you
describe, we must take her out of it as soon
as the doctor will allow her to be moved. If
more than one nurse is necessary, we must
get more than one, and if it's safe to go,
Mary can superintend them. Anything more
than that I will not listen to.

'My dear,' I ventured to respond, 'you
are the very genius of good sense.'

'Don't be sarcastic, John,' she answered.
I am sure I am right. Go at once and find
a nurse, and take her with you. And above
all, don't fail to bring Mary back again. Tell
her that if she refuses I will come and stay
with her. Tell her that you can't stop me
you know you can't stop me, John — and

that you will hold her responsible. She
knows how delicate I am.'

Thus armed, I borrowed money from my
wife, and set out again. Dr. Mason gave
me the address of an institute for nurses,
where I was almost certain immediately to
find a trained and trustworthy woman. I
drove thither without delay, was introduced
to the presence of the matron, explained to
her as far as was necessary the circumstances
of the case, and in a quarter of an hour was
bowling away towards Green Hill Court, in
company with a professional nurse, so bounteously
proportioned that she nearly filled the
cab. She was a calm - looking woman of
obviously amiable temperament, and had a
mother-of-a-family air about her which was
eminently assuring. When we arrived at
the court together, and I had paid the cabman,
I caught her looking at her surroundings
with an air of surprise and almost of
dismay, so that I felt constrained to take her
partly into confidence.

The poor lady who Hes here,' I said, ' has
been in hiding from her friends. She was
discovered by a providential accident this
afternoon, and we shall remove her as soon
as the doctor thinks it safe to do so.'

'Well, sir,' she answered, with an air of
philosophy, ' the greater the need, the better
the deed. It looks needy enough hereabouts.'


With that she seized a small black portmanteau
with which she had come provided,
and waddled resolutely into the court and
up the stairway. It was pitch dark thereby
this time, though it was still light outside,
and I had to illuminate the way by striking
wax vesta one after the other, so that we
had two pauses on our upward passage.
The light revealed the excessive squalor of
the building. The stairs were encrusted with
old filth, and the painted walls were deep ina
sort of half-dry mire which came off, friable
and clammy, at the touch of the fingers.
The cracked door, ill-fitting and warped

from its original shape, guided us by a score
of glittering crevices to the room we sought ;
and it was somewhat surprising to find,
when I had knocked and we had been called
upon to enter, that this brilliant illumination
proceeded from a single candle. One would
have thought, from the intensity with which
the light streamed out upon the darkness
through the cracks and crevices of the door,
that the whole chamber was alive with light.
As we entered Mary rose with her finger
on her lips, and recognising me with a glance
of some astonishment, looked inquiringly at
my companion. I advanced stealthily, and
the nurse, in spite of her ponderous proportions,
slid upon the crazy floor like a list-slipped
silence.

I have found a nurse,' I whispered, ' who
will take your place. Clara insists upon your
coming home at once, and declares that if you
will not do so, she will share your watch.
You know what a resolute young person it is,
and you know that she will keep her word.'

The nurse had already, with a systematic
air, taken off her tidy bonnet and handsome
mantle, which was ornamented by a profusion
of black glass beads, had laid them
neatly on the table, and now slid into the
chair which had been occupied by Mary
before our entrance. She took the black
portmanteau upon her knees, opened it by a
spring, and, drawing from its depths a roll
of worsted stocking with knitting - needles
thrust through it, set the portmanteau on the
floor again, and began at once to knit with
a silence and rapidity astonishing to contemplate.
She had not been there a minute,
and contrived to look as if she had been born
and lived there.

'Dr. Mason,' said Mary, speaking in the
same careful tones I myself had used, ' promised
to bring a local practitioner to watch
the case, and said that he would be here to
meet him at nine o'clock. I must stay till
then.'

You will come away then } ' I asked.

'Certainly,' she answered. 'I will come
away then.'

The nurse, hearing this conversation, rose
from the place she had assumed, but there
was no other chair in the chamber, and I had
to stumble downstairs in search of one.

'And now,' said Mary, 'go home and tell
Clara that she need have no anxiety on my
account. When we have Dr. Mason's further
instructions nurse will know what is to be
done, and I will leave at once.'

I will be here at nine o'clock,' I answered.
If the doctor will allow it we will move
her in the morning to some decent place
where she can have good air and quiet.'

The rackety place swarmed with life and
noises.

Are you quite fresh and strong, nurse ? '
Mary asked the comfortable woman at her
side. ' It will not be pleasant watching here.
Do you think we might get an arm-chair for
the nurse, John ?'

I answered ' Certainly ; ' and set out in

pursuit of that necessary. I found it in the
neighbouring street, a great, roomy, cushioned
thing, fit for the nurse's generous proportions,
and modestly priced at seven-and-sixpence.
I came back again, bearing this trophy in
my arms at considerable inconvenience ; but
I excited no man's attention, or woman's
either, and it would have seemed as if it
were not at all a startling or unusual thing
in that neighbourhood to find a man cumbrously
embracing his household goods in
the public thoroughfare.

This duty discharged, I had still ample
time to search for a new hansom, drive home
with the news of Mary's consent to Clara,
snatch a hurried apology for dinner, and get
back to Green Hill Court by nine o'clock.
Dr. Mason had arrived a moment before me,
and what with the certainty that the sick
woman's apparently wild stories of herself
were true, and with the advent of so many
well-dressed strangers, the court was in a
turmoil. The crippled Italian swung rapidly

forward at the sound of my approaching cab-wheels,
and intercepted me whether I would
or no. He had been certain all along that
the patient was a gran dama, and the other
people had scoffed at him. Yet now — aha !
Why did people of consideration come from
the four quarters of the winds to visit her,
unless his thoughts were true ? Who but
people of the first consideration were visited
by two doctors at a time ? He hovered round
me on his restless crutches with a surprising
agility, and I was obliged to be excessively
gingerly in my movements, lest I should
overthrow him in the dark as I walked
towards the bottom of the court. I made
one or two observations in answer to his
rapid, broken chatter, and the English contingent
of the court's inhabitants made a
chorus to us, chiefly inspired by wonder that
anybody out of poverty's kingdom should be
able to understand his language. I know it
will seem an absurd statement to many, but
I know for a fact that the very poor of

London suppose all inhabitants of foreign
countries to be poor and helpless, and
regard a foreign tongue as the last badge of
poverty.

I escaped him at last, and found my way
up the desolate and broken stairs once more.
There was a low murmur of voices in the
room, and when in answer to my faint and
scarcely audible knock I was admitted, Dr.
Mason was giving instructions to the nurse.
The humbler practitioner, who was a man of
three or four-and-twenty only, and had a face
of keen intelligence, listened respectfully, and
accepted the great man's dicta with as evident
a worship as a student of painting might
have for the President of the Royal Academy,
or a subaltern for the directions of a Field
Marshal. The patient was awake, but very
feeble. Her illness and her prolonged half-wilful
abstinence from food had peaked her
features and brightened her great black eyes
unnaturally. She looked all eyes, and the
eyes looked a sad complaining nothing, as if

VOL. Ill H

she had fallen away from all sense of feeling
and emotion.

The doctors left with Mary and myself,
and we walked together into the nearest
respectable thoroughfare. Talking of the
case, at present, Dr. Mason said, he would
not authorise the unhappy creature's removal.
Perhaps it might be possible tomorrow. It
would, of course, be well to secure cleanliness,
pure air, and quiet, but her condition
was for the moment so critical that he could
only leave her where she lay.

You have seen her now,' he said. ^ What
do you think ? Is she the woman she pretends
to be?'

Yes,' I answered. ' She is Lord Marlborough's
wife.'

'Ah well,' rejoined the doctor; 'she'll be
no great loss if she goes, though we've got
to do our best for her. Have you communicated
with Lord Worborough ? He
ought to know.'

I told him that I had already despatched

two telegrams, but that I was uncertain of
the time they would take to reach their
destination. He drew me farther back, and
allowed Mary and the young doctor to walk
at some distance ahead of us.

Sister Constance is ]^Iiss Delamere, isn't
she?' And when I had answered in the
affirmative, he nodded several times, and
said that it was a curious conjunction of circumstances,
when you came to think of it.
Between ourselves, you know,' he added,
I'm a little bit uncertain. We'll do what
we can for her, but I don't think she'll pull
through it. I don't think she'll pull through
it.'

In two days' time the patient, under the
influence of warmth and nourishment, so far
rallied that we were able to transport her to
a clean and comfortable lodging. She gained
more in wilfulness than she gained in
strength, and the nurse so far confided in
me as to tell me that she had never before
encountered so intractable a subject. For
four or five days I went regularly to see her
once a day, to ascertain for myself what progress
she was making, and she seemed at
first to regard my presence as being quite
natural and in the common order of things.
I dare say she had been too weak to wonder
much, or to take interest in her own surroundings.
On the fourth or fifth day she

had recovered something of her habitual
scorn, and asked me point blank what business
her condition was of mine. I tried to let
this query go by unanswered, but she grew
angry at my silence, and fearing lest in her
weakened state she should do herself a mischief
by an outburst of temper, I did my best
to soothe her. I told her in what way I had
learned of her accident and her whereabouts,
and I added that I had wired to her husband.
She lay looking at me with her threatened eyes
for a time, and then with a faint motion of her
head upon the pillow, as if she would have
nodded to emphasise her words, she said —

I am not so easily conquered as you
fancied. I shall have my way.'

A little later the nurse offered to do some
small service for her, and was rejected angrily.
She took no notice of this, but went tranquilly
on, and the patient broke into a rage, which,
though feebly expressed, was so intense and
unassuageable that the woman was compelled
to desist.

At this moment Mary, whom I had accompanied
to the house, entered the room
with a cup of beef tea, which she at once
proceeded to administer. Lady Worborough
still cast glances of anger and aversion at the
nurse, and muttered angrily about her, but
she accepted Mary's attentions, though with
a sufficiently ill grace. From that time forward
she seemed to do her best to make the
hired nurse's position unbearable. That excellent
woman bore with the vagaries of sickness
and ill-temper with a phlegmatic good
humour which irritated the patient more than
I think any other reception of her angry and
contemptuous ways could have done. One
of the purposely irritating devices Lady Marlborough
adapted was to beg Mary, in a tone
of amiability, to re-perform for her any little
office the nurse might already have done.

I dare say she means well,' she would
say, ' or might mean well if she did not give
way to temper, but she is a clumsy creature,
and quite out of place in a sick-room.'

The nurse was not to be persuaded into
any show of anger, whatever devices her ladyship
might adopt, and the patient being one
of those people who above all things loathe
defeat in this direction, the good woman became
utterly hateful and unbearable to her.
If she could but have been persuaded to
retort, the two might have got on together.
Even if she had handled a teacup with
unnecessary emphasis, or had poked the
fire with more than needful vigour, the sick
woman would have found some solace. But
to lie there and spend the weary, painful hours
in the vain attempt to irritate that placid, irresponsive,
obstinately good-humoured person
was to aggravate her own native ill-humour
beyond endurance.

One day, when she had been installed in
her new lodgings for about a week, I called
to make my customary inquiry. I had been
received with so little grace, as was only
natural in the circumstances, that for a day
or two I had not intruded upon her ladyship's

presence, but had simply made my
inquiries at the door, where I had had a
momentary interview with Mary. On this
occasion I learned, a little to my astonishment,
that Lady Worborough missed me,
and desired me to be shown to her room.

You are very regular in your inquiries,
it appears, Mr. Denham,' she said, when in
answer to this invitation I presented myself,
but you should come in person to see what
progress I make. It will be so much more
satisfactory to your friend if you can tell him
at first hand how sure I am to live and be a
comfort to him.'

She was quite helpless below the waist,
and I am inclined to think from one or two
phrases she had let fall already, that she
believed this terrible affliction likely to last
her lifetime. She did not seem at all quelled
by the prospect, or even in any marked
degree to rebel at it, but my own reflections
upon it helped me to be patient with her
bitter temper.

His lordship takes his time in coming,' she
said a moment later, with a feeble mockery.
You and he, Mr. Denham, have rather a
poor opinion of a woman's strength of mind,
I think. I have heard so often that a little
resolution, a little firmness, a little judicious
patience, would work wonders. But, you
see, I have not given in. I should have
died if I had not been found. Xo doubt.
But dying is not giving in. It is not even
being beaten.'

If you could have been persuaded,' I
answered, ' that your husband had no wish
to enter into any warfare with you it would
certainly have been happier. If you could be
persuaded now to arrive at any compromise,
I am sure that he will be willing to do anything
in reason.'

I do not mean,' she responded, ' to accept
any compromise whatever.'

Feeble and wasted as she was, there was
a kind of triumph in her manner.

You think that because I am paralysed

you have me in your power, but the fact is
completely the reverse of that. I accept
what you offer me at present, and I will
continue to accept it for a reasonable time.
I wanted to see you, Mr. Denham, chiefly in
order that I might tell you this. When the
reasonable time has expired, I shall refuse
to take anything further from you, and will
either have my rights or nothing. We will
see whether or not my husband is villain and
brute enough to allow a paralytic wife to
starve.'

Can you fairly speak of your husband as
allowing you to starve when he offers you
five thousand pounds a year ? ' I asked. I
was in sore dread lest this question should
excite her, but on the whole it seemed very
reasonable to put it, and I ventured the experiment.
It was a relief to find that she
could answer it tranquilly.

You observe, Mr. Denham, that when a
thing is offered to you on such terms that
you would rather die than take it, it might

almost as well not be offered at all. I will
have my right or nothing.'

There was a flash of fire in the last phrase,
and I had already had too clear an indication
of what her temper could be to dare to push
her further.

The young doctor came in a little later,
and she welcomed him as she had welcomed
me, with a graciousness of manner ver' unusual
in her. I was not long in being allowed
to understand the meaning of this changed
manner.

You will find a seat upon this side of the
bed, doctor,' she said, indicating the position
by a slight motion of the hand. ' Pray come
and tell Mr. Denham how much better I am.
He will hardly believe me when I tell him.
He is inclined to be a little out of spirits
about me, and it will cheer him to know that
I am really getting stronger. ]mr. Denham
is a great friend of Lord Worborough's,
doctor. He will be able to convey the news
to my husband, and to ease his mind.'

Neither her tone nor her manner gave any
indication of the real meaning of this speech.
It was spoken smilingly, and even with a
kind of coquetry. If I had not known the
truth so well already, I should have supposed
the words to have meant neither more nor
less than they expressed in themselves. The
young doctor felt her pulse, and made several
commonplace inquiries about her condition,
to all of which she answered with the same
amiable calm.

Lady Worborough certainly gains in
strength, Mr. Denham,' he said, looking up
at me. ' Gains considerably in strength. If
you could contrive now,' he added, looking
down at his patient, ' to preserve your present
spirits, your advance might be much more
rapid.'

'Oh,' she answered, smiling at him, 'I
shall not lose my spirits. You must know,
doctor, that I am a most unconquerable person,
when I choose.' Then she turned tome,
'You will let his lordship know how I

progress, Mr. Denham. You must write
quite a flourishing account of me. I should
so Hke to see his dear face when he reads
your letter. It would be a comfort to me. 1
am a little tired now, Vlx. Denham. I have
talked too much. Good day. Send Sister
Constance to me.'

I thought at the time that this request was
made with no other object than to prevent
me from inquiring further into her condition.
I obeyed it nevertheless, and went my way,
wondering at the woman's implacability and
bitterness. So far, as I devoutly believe
until this moment, the wrong which had
separated her husband and herself was wholly
on her side. I have often thought that this
may partly have accounted for her hatred,
for there is unhappily no philosophy truer
than that which teaches that you have to
hate to justify yourself from the victim of
your own ill-doing.

Clara and I naturally thought the matter
over pretty often, and she, with her usual

directness of statement, declared Lady Marlborough
to be altogether a horrible and hateful
person. I recounted this particular conversation
to her faithfully, and she was moved
to great anger by it.

Do you wonder,' she demanded, ' at your
friend refusing to spend his life with a woman
of that character ? She would rather die than
take the allowance he offers her ? I think if
I were in his place I should be inclined to
put that to the test. I would engage a man
to wait upon her every day with the money
and the necessary document. She would
yield if she had the chance to yield.'

I represented that she seemed fairly well
to have accepted the test already. Even
before her accident rendered her helpless,
she had sunk so low as to live voluntarily in
one of the vilest slums in London, and now
her helplessness gave her a new strength,
and she knew it.

Clara turned upon me with flashing eyes.

Do you mean to tell me, John, that you

will counsel your friend to yield to that
woman's demands ? '

I answered that I should so counsel him
if he asked my advice. It would be ignominious
not to yield In such a case.

Well,' my wife declared, with a kind of
despairing resignation, ' it would be of no
use for us to quarrel about other people's
quarrels, but men don't seem to see things
as women do. Suppose it were a man who
chose to act in this way. Suppose, a man
did all that lay in his power to make his wife's
life a burden to her. Suppose outside that
expressed intention, he drank, and had a
hideous temper. Suppose, the wife offered
him five thousand pounds a year — he having
not a penny in the world — to go away and
merely cease to be a torment to her, whose
side would you take then? Would you
advise the wife to yield ? '

I thought not, but then, as I pointed out
to her, I had never been one of the advocates
of equal rights between the sexes. In such

a case as she chose to imagine my opinion
was that a stout horsewhip might be employed
with great advantage ; though, even
if the husband had been the sinner and not
the wife, it would have been difficult to deal
with him, when he became physically helpless,
if he insisted seriously on dying or on
having what he conceived to be his rights.

In the case of this hypothetical personage
of her own creation Clara felt herself at
liberty to be altogether resolute and unbending.


I would allow him to insist upon dying,'
she declared. ' I would tell him with absolute
plainness, ''If you choose, out of your
own wicked obstinacy, to die in the midst of
plenty, you must do it. There is your
money. Take it and use it, or leave it and
starve, as seems good to you." Is the
world to be turned into an asylum for spoiled
children who have gone mad with the indulgence
of their own selfish passions ? If
Lady Worborough had me to deal with

she ' She paused there, so fired by that

prospect that she was afraid of saying too
much, I fancy. When she had walked up
and down the room for a minute or two she
stopped short before me and opened up a
new attack. 'The fact is, John.' she said,
that your absurd yielding to this wicked
woman is part and parcel of the enormous
injustice your sex perpetually heaps on ours.'

This statement astonished me so much
that I could find no reply to it, but she gave
me no time for wonder. Her next sentences
enlightened me.

You propose,' she went on, ' to give way
to this woman's monstrous claim. You admit
that if the cases were reversed, and it was a
man who made it, he would deserve to be
worshipped. That is, you admit that her
conduct is utterly base and despicable. But
you don't resent it ; you don't fight against
it. And why? It is beneath your dignity
to fight with her because she is a woman.
Your mdpris of women is so profound that it

VOL. Ill I

seems beneath you to meet them on equal
ground — the equal ground of justice, and
honour, and common-sense.'

'My darling Clara,' I urged, 'the dear
creatures wouldn't endure it for a moment.
And besides, they don't deserve to be treated
in that way. A woman is not made for the
rough-and-tumble of the world. It is no
part of a man's duty to treat women as if
they were men, any more than to treat menas
if they were women. You think our
honest worship degrades you ? You think
that, because even a bad woman carries
about with her something of the sacredness
with which we look at her happier sisters,
men scorn your sex ? That is poor logic'

I don't care,' protested Clara. ' I would
never yield to that woman's monstrous
claim. I shall think it very unmanly in you
if you advise Lord Worborough to take that
line.'

This proclamation alarmed me very little,
for even thus early in my married life I had

made one golden discovery. I commend it
here to all young husbands who may find
themselves in need of advice upon this point.
Follow thy conscience, oh young husband !
Be just, and fear not, and the wife of thy
bosom shall respect thee more a thousand
times, and love thee the more honestly, and
think the better of thine understanding, than
if, seeking to please her, thou shouldst depart
from the law of thine own soul. For
the just man, who does that and that only
which seems good to him. is a pillar of
strength for a woman's heart to lean on, and
she would rather him who can resist her for
the sake of honest judgment than a thousand
noodles who will melt at her tears or flutter
away at her sighs in any direction in which
it may please her to blow them. So that,
whether I were right or wrong in respect of
this matter, I was at least persuaded that I
was right, and could do no less than hold to
my own persuasion. Clara and I had many
a battle about it, but neither could shake

the Other's conviction. The one point I was
profoundly convinced upon was the one
thing she refused to believe, and that alone
was surely enough to keep two reasonable
people from agreeing with each other. I
knew of a certainty that Lady Worborough
employed no figure of speech when she said
that she would rather die than give way.
She would have found a savage satisfaction
in seeming to die of her husband's neglect,
and to have fixed on him the stigma of an
actual brutality would have been a solace to
her last hours. Whoever else gave way, she
would not.

The time went by and brought no news of
Pole. I wrote to his steward at Worborough,
and called upon his lawyer in London, but
neither of them had any tidings of him since
he had given instructions for the sale of his
hotel and effects in Paris. At the expiration
of a fortnight Mary brought home a message
from Lady Worborough to the effect that she
would be obliged if I would call upon heron

the following day. I complied with this
invitation with no light heart, for I guessed
what was coming, and it happened that I
guessed rightly. ~

When I reached her room she was sitting
propped up with pillows in bed, and her face
wore all its old expression.

I have sent for you, ^\x. Denham,' she
began, ' to tell you that this must come to
an end. I have waited a reasonable time ;
I shall wait no longer. After noon to-day I
will take neither bite nor sup at the hands of
any pretended charity which aims at holding
me from the possession of my rights.'

I told her that there was no pretence in
the matter, and since, in anticipation of this
resolve of hers, I had carried the letter from
the steward with me, I was able to place it
at once in her hands. She glanced over it
with a disdainful face, and let it fall contemptuously
upon the coverlet.

'What is that to me?' she asked. * It is
easy to concoct a story of that kind, and might

be easy to keep me waiting here for ever, if
you had a fool to deal with.'

'Madam,' I responded, 'you must take
what course you please. I give you my word
of honour as a gentleman that all reasonable
means have been employed to ascertain your
husband's whereabouts.'

Understand me,' she said. ' I have nota
word to add.'

Understand me also,' I replied, as I rose
to go. ' You may do whatever reckless and
foolish thing you may decide upon. But I
will at least take care that my friend suffers
no blame from your conduct. I have no
fear that you will be allowed to do yourself
a real damage. The doctors and the nurses
will see to that. I am certain that when
Lord Worborough returns he will give way
to your unjust demands rather than continue
so undignified a struggle. In the meantime
I have consulted Dr. Mason, and, if you will
allow me, I will report his judgment in his
own words.' I paused there for a moment,

and she lifted her eyes, with the old menace
and contempt I had had so many opportunities
of reading, but she made no verbal
answer. ' I am sorry,' I went on, 'if I seem
to be brutal, but you force me to absolute
plainness. Dr. Mason's statement was given
me in the words I give you now : "If Lady
Worborough chooses to behave like a madwoman
she must be treated like a madwoman.
She will not be allowed to hurt
herself." So soon as your husband receives
my communication he will return. Until
then you may safely reserve your forces.
Until he comes there is nobody to coerce.'

This time she did not so much as answer
me by a look. She had closed her eyes, and
though I waited for a considerable length of
time in silence she continued to ignore my
presence. I left her there and went home,
deciding in my own mind to say nothing of
our interview to Clara. It would only have
strengthened her opinion, as much as it
strengthened mine ; and since we were far

enough removed upon that point already, it
was wisest to keep silence. If I had been in
Pole's place, and had had a woman of that
sort to deal with, I would at this pass have
surrendered everything rather than continue
a strife so completely ignominious. The
woman was vulgar to the core, and if, as the
poet tells us, the gods themselves fight in
vain against stupidity, what shall it be said
they hope for against a vulgar heart, which
is stupidity in essence, plus greed in essence ?

I was sitting in my study, revolving these
things in a mood more than sufficiently embittered,
when a knock came to the front
door, and a servant brought me a telegram.
It came from Pole, and was dated ' Geneva,'
and its contents ran, ' Telegram received.
With you in forty - eight hours. — Marlborough.'


I carried this at once to Pole's wife, and
having gained admission to her room, handed
it to her, telling her that it had just arrived.
She read it with a smile of mockery.

'Do you think,' she asked, 'that I am a
child or a fool that you play this comedy
with me ? I win, you see. You may bring
me my beef-tea, nurse. Not you ! How
often am I to tell you that I will take nothing
at your hands ? Where is Sister
Constance ? Let Sister Constance bring it.
I tell you I will not take anything except
from Sister Constance.'

Mary, hearing her impatient patient's
voice raised in this feeble anger, entered
from the adjoining room.

Send that creature away,' screamed the
sick woman. ' I will not have her about
me.'

I left Mary standing over her, quiet and
persuasive, and the shrill, feeble, denouncing
scream followed me downstairs.

When Mary returned home that night Clara
happened to be absent, and she and I sat
alone. She was sewing at some coarse garment
for one of her poor, and I, revolving
in my own mind how best to approach the
theme I had in my thoughts, sat for a while
pretending to read. At last I set my book
on one side and announced, in as commonplace
a voice as I could command, that I had
received a telegram from Lord Worborough,
who would be in England the day after the
morrow. It was not easy to mention his
name in her presence, mainly because of the
facts themselves, but partly because there
had been a conspiracy of silence amongst us,
and we had all grown used to the avoidance

of that topic in her presence. She trembled
ever so Httle, and the motion of the needle
grew unsteady and inaccurate. She was
more accustomed to controlling her feelings
than to concealing them, and was by nature
curiously frank for a woman, and almost at
once she laid down her sewing and looked
up at me with nothing but a slight pallor to
indicate the emotion this news had caused
her.

Yes ? ' she said simply. ' Your message
seems to have taken some time in reaching
him.'

He was not far afield,' I answered ; ' no
farther away than Geneva.'

Does he know,' she asked, 'your reasons
for calling him home ? '

Not yet,' I told her. But I supposed
that he would have guessed that it related to
Lady Worborough.

'Do you think,' she asked, 'that he will
grant the claim she intends to make upon
him ? ' I dare say I looked somewhat surprised

at this, for she added, in a voice of
explanation, ' Lady Worborough talks a
great deal to me of her own affairs.'

I think he will do anything,' I responded,
'anything within the bounds of reason, to
put an end to the struggle which is going on
between them.'

I heard a faint sigh as she took up her
work and bent over it anew. It seemed to
indicate relief, and I asked if such a course on
his part would be approved by her.

I do not know,' she said. ' I think that
Lord Worborough will try to act for the best.'

She was so tranquil and self-controlled
that I began to feel safe in discussing the
subject with her.

Of course,' I told her, ' I should not think
of pressing my advice upon him if it were
not asked for, but he and I are such close
friends, and he has so invariably consulted
my judgment in this matter, that I have no
doubt it will be asked again.'

'And if it should be,' she asked me.

dropping her sewing to her lap and looking
up at me anew, 'you would advise him to
surrender ? '

I should advise him,' I answered, 'to end
a quarrel with an opponent who has neither
generosity nor decency. It is impossible to
conduct a dignified warfare with such a
woman as Lady Worborough.'

She is a woman of a strange temper,'
Mary said.

Strange indeed ! ' I echoed, and then we

o

were both silent for a considerable time.

Mary took up her sewing, but did not goon
with her work. I could see that she had
fallen into a reverie, and the stuff dropped
back to her knees with both hands clasping
it. I made a pretence of reading, and in a
while she awoke from her own thoughts and
arose.

I would rather not meet Lord Marlborough,'
she said quietly. ' If he should
resolve to see his wife will you let me know
of it ? '

I promised, and she left the room. The
subject was not renewed between us until
Pole actually reached England. He sent a
telegram from Dover, and I met him at the
London terminus. We drove at once to his
old chambers, where we found a fire already
lit, a table spread, and a Swiss servant, who
appeared to have been despatched in advance,
in attendance. I had told Pole the story
whilst driving homeward, and the man being
dismissed, we sat down together to consider
it and to decide upon the course to .be taken.

I must acknowledge,' I said, ' that the
present condition of things is partly due to
the advice I gave you. Without that advice
Lady Worborough would not have fallen
into the condition in which she was discovered.'


'You blame yourself?' he asked me in a
voice of surprise.

I did not blame myself, but I accepted the
responsibility of the advice I had offered.

She has herself to blame,' said Pole, ' and

herself only. For my part I disclaim all responsibility.
I took your advice before, and
if you will give it now I will take it again. I
am sick of the whole business, and only
anxious to end it.'

I represented that there was no way of
ending it, except by acceding to his wife's
demand.

And you advise that ? ' he asked me,
standing before me with his hands clasped
behind him.

'This is rather a hard matter,' I said in
answer. ' It looks a thought too easy for
one man to be generous with another's fortune,
but I see no other way to end it, and
I do see very clearly that it ought to be
ended.'

You advise me to give her what she
asks ': '

I advise you to give her what she asks.'

He walked up and down the room abruptly
once or twice before he spoke again.

'There is nothing to be gained,' he said,

'by discussing with her. If I make up my
mind to do this I shall do it without bargaining
or haggling.' He sat down thoughtfully,
and, consulting some memoranda in a pocketbook,
made a few pencilled notes. ' I shall
strike,' he said then, looking up at me in the
act of returning the book to his pocket, 'whilst
the iron is hot. I will see her to-night, and
I hope with all my heart that it may be for
the last time.'

To-night ? ' I asked him. ' Will it not be
better to think so serious a matter over } '

No,' he answered; ' it will be time enough
to consult the lawyers when the business
comes to be arranged. Give me the address,
and I will go at once.'

Now, both for Mary's sake and for his
own, I was anxious that he should not goat
once, because I knew how painful to
both of them a meeting would be, and if
he should reach his wife's chamber before
I had time to give warning an encounter
was inevitable. I had of set purpose withheld

her name from the narrative 1 had given
him.

He threw off his coat and walked into the
bedroom, where he beo^an to wash his hands,
looking round the doorway at me meanwhile.

Give me the address,' he said, ' and I will
go and get it over.

I will leave you then for a time,' I answered.
' I have business which I must see
to immediately.'

I scrawled the address upon an envelope
which lay on a side table, called his attention
to it, and seized my hat. He called to me to
meet him there again in an hour's time, if I
were free, and throwing back a hasty affirmative
I hurried away. Before I left his chambers
I was guilty of another mean expedient.
There was a catch upon the outer door which
could be liberated, as I knew from old experience,
by a mere touch of the finger, but gave
considerable trouble and demanded considerable
patience for its re-adjustment. I let this
slip, and having slammed the door behind me,

VOL. Ill K

ran swiftly down the stairs, along the court,
and into Holborn. There, as chance would
have it, I found a cab waiting by the kerb,
and leaping in, gave the cabman the address,
and bade him drive his hardest. Like most
people, I have tried Time's different paces,
and have known him at one time or another
to gallop and amble and crawl. But he never
crawled with me as he did in the course of
that wretched twenty minutes' drive. If I
had painstakingly gone about to discover the
worst-horsed hansom at that hour in London
I could hardly have found anything to excel
in badness the mournful brute I sat behind.
A hundred times I was on the point of leaping
from the vehicle, but the cabman had
made a turning into a neighbourhood where
I was extremely unlikely to find another conveyance,
and I was uncertain of the shortest
route between the point I was at and the one
I desired to reach. I bullied and implored
the driver, and the man responded by thrashing
the miserable steed until I was ashamed

of myself for abetting the cruelty. Even thus
we achieved only the wretchedness pace, and
by the time we had reached the house I was
burning with a feverish impatience.

Even when I had rung and knocked the
misfortune of delay pursued me. The servants
of the house might have been deaf, or dead,
or miles away. I was in the act of ringing
the third or fourth distracted peal when the
door was opened by the landlady in person,
who regarded me with a frozen air of hauteur,
as if I had been guilty of a personal impropriety.
I hurried past her without explanation
or apology, and mounting the stairs
knocked at the door of the antechamber. The
nurse answered here expeditiously enough,
and I demanded Sister Constance. I was in
the ver)' act of speaking when the knocker
on the street door came into play again, and
this time the call was responded to without
delay. I had been so pressing in my
speech to the nurse that she ran to the
door of the sick-chamber. She opened it

slightly, and threw in a hasty and expressive
whisper.

Sister Constance, Mr. Denham must
speak to you at once.'

It is very commonly said that one cannot
listen to two things at the same time. But
after the experience of that moment I knew
this to be a fallacy. I heard Mary's response,
even the rustle of her dress as she approached
me from the next room, whilst I listened for,
heard, and understood, Pole's voice below.

I believe Lady Worborough is here ? '

Yes, sir,' said the landlady.

I am her husband. I must see her, if
you please.'

'This way, your lordship,' said the landlady.
' Mind the mat, my lord. You will
find the poor lady very ill, my lord.'

Mary Delamere and I stood face to face,
both hearing this. She was white and trembling,
and looked about her as if searching
a way of escape from the inevitable encounter.
The room opened flush upon the landing at

the top of the stair, and there was no exit
from it save that which led into the bedroom.
The bedroom and the anteroom were isolated.
and to retreat was but to defer the meeting
for a moment.

I came to warn you.' I said. I could say
no more before Pole, still my lorded by the
landlady, entered the room. The gaslight
shone full upon Clary's face, and in spite of
the chancre in her attire, he recognised her at
the very instant when he crossed the threshold.
They stood, pale and palpitating, for a
moment, looking at each other, but the common
surprise and emotion lasted but for an instant.
They were lovers confessed, and bound to
each other by all ties of mutual respect and
tenderness, and severed in this strange and
tragic fashion, but they were English lady
and gentleman, and whatever either or both
might feel, they would have no scene for unsympathetic
eyes to make a feast of. Pole
was, I think, the first to recover, though his
surprise was the swifter and more astonishing.

He came forward with outstretched
hand.

I had not expected,' he said, ' to find you
here. It is Hke your goodness. I am very
grateful.'

Mary took the hand he proffered her.
Probably she divined with native feminine
tact that I had told my share in the discovery
without mention of her. She shot a swift
glance at me, and answered him with apparent
perfect self-possession —

Mr. Denham and I were together when
I heard of your wife's illness.'

She made a motion to release her hand,
and that I thought was the first intimation
he had that he still held it. The landlady
and the nurse looking on could have gathered
nothing from this interview but the fact that
they were old acquaintances.

It is like your goodness to be here,' Pole
said again. * I am very grateful.*

Lady Worborough,' said Mary, ' does not
know that you are yet in England. You

wish to see her?' He nodded gravely.
Shall I tell her of your arrival, or would
you prefer to announce yourself? '

It will be best, perhaps,' he responded,
'that she should be prepared.'

Mary passed into the bedroom, and Pole
sat down in a chair by the table which stood
in the centre of the room. The landlady
withdrew lingeringly, and the nurse followed
and closed the door behind her. Pole had
not until now seemed to be aware of my
presence, but as the door closed he looked
round upon me with an odd smile, and laid a
hand upon my shoulder.

I spent two minutes over the latch. Jack,"
he said. ' Was that your work ? ' I answered
nothing, but I suppose I looked somewhat
embarrassed. 'Well,' he continued, giving
my shoulder a light grip before he dropped
his hand, 'you are good people, and I don't
know why such a worthless pair should trouble
you.'

I made no answer to this, but one thought

which demanded instant expression flashed
into my mind.

'You must give no hint,' I told him, 'that
your wife's nurse is Miss Delamere. She is
known here simply as Sister Constance.'

I had scarcely spoken when Mary stole
back from the sick woman's chamber.

She knows that you are here,' she
whispered.

Pole walked into the bedroom, and Mary
closed the door behind him. We who stayed
behind rested in silence and could hear the
deep tones of his voice and the shriller notes
of hers, though the words spoken by each
were alike inaudible. When we had stood
thus for a mere moment Mary made a motion
towards the outer door, and I, obeying that
indication of her wish, opened the door for
her, and accompanied her into the street.
We walked for some distance without any
exchange of words, and when I had found a
cab and had directed the driver homewards,
I walked back to Pole's chambers, and awaited

his coming there. He arrived sooner than I
had expected.

I have surrendered all along the line,' he
said.

I asked him how his wife had accepted
the surrender.

Triumphantly,' he answered. 'She Is a
good deal changed. I have had no experience
In such matters, but she looked to meas
though she had a sort of fatal mark upon
her. I don't think she'll last long, the poor
Adelaide. She wasn't always like that. Jack.
I remember her — It Isn't so very long ago,
when she was bright and handsome, and only
prettily wilful. I feel as If It were a thousand
years ago.'

He walked up and down the room very
much In his habitual fashion, with his hands
in his pockets, and pausing now and then to
loll against a bookcase or a door jamb, but it
was easy to see that these airs of nonchalance
were half an affair of habit, and half assumed.

You have done everything for the best,

of course,' he said. 'Who Is attending
her?'

I mentioned Dr. Mason, and he, recognising
the name, nodded approval. A Httle
later, he asked the doctor's opinion, and I
gave it him as well as I was able. The case
was doubtful, and might drag on for a year
or two, or might have an early termination.

Poor girl ! ' said Pole. ' I wish that
something or somebody would kill that mocking
devil she nurses and seems so fond of.
She lay there to-night and told me so quietly
that at first I thought she was in earnest, that
this was a judgment upon her for her plot
against me. The woman she personated was
knocked down by a passing cab, and was
taken to the same hospital.*

She jested about that ? ' I asked him.

'Yes,' he answered, 'she jested about it.
She has a great deal of humour — of a sort.'

Then again he was silent, and went
wandering up and down.

'And this is what she has brought her

life to. And this is what I have brought my
life to. Here I am at thirty, where I never
hoped to be or expected to be, without a use
in the world or much of a hope in it.' His
voice began to tremble, and, as I could see
clearly enough, he ceased to speak for fear of
breaking down. By and by, vrhen he had
controlled himself, he began to talk again.
There are all sorts in the world, good, bad,
and indifferent. That girl's an angel. Den-ham,'
he cried, almost wildly. ' I think of
her goodness, her loneliness, her patience,
the unselfish, tender charity of her heart '

He could go no further. His voice broke,
and he walked into the bedroom, leaving me
alone. When he came back he was master
of himself again.

I shall see my lawyer tomorrow. My
wife wants that fellow Goldsmith to see to
her affairs, and since she wants him she must
have him, I suppose. I have an undertaking
that there is to be no more scandal or
trouble, and I shall settle down in London

here, and try to find work of some sort. I
don't care much about politics, but they're
better than nothing, and by and by I shall
find something to hammer at. Siu^sum coi^da.
Eh, Jack ? We set out thinking that it is
easy to beat the world, and when we find
ourselves beaten we console ourselves with
the reflection that we might have had a much
worse licking after all.'

It was one thing to decide that Lady Marlborough
was at liberty to take up her residence
at Worborough Court, and another
thing for her ladyship to get there. The
mere shock of the accident from which she
had suffered would have killed some women
outright. The bout of starvation by which
she was content to follow it might of itself
have resulted fatally. She must have been
blessed with a noble constitution to begin
with, though in one way at least she had been
doing her best to ruin it for years past, and
even now her passionate and imperious will
continued to assert itself. She would go to
Worborough Court. The doctor assured her
that she might die upon the way, and declined

to sanction her removal. All the same, she
would go to Worborough Court.

'My dear madam,' said the doctor, 'it
is at present impossible for you to make a
journey. Perhaps in the course of a week
or two it may be safe to remove you. At
present it would be little less than criminal
to attempt it.'

My lady hereupon became certain that the
doctor was a member of that widespread
society which conspired to rob her of her
rights — her right by this time being clearly
defined as the right to do, at any given
moment, precisely what she wished. He
had entered into a compact with Lord Marlborough
to keep her a prisoner in that horrible
house. She stormed and raved herself
into a condition of utter weakness, and for
four or five days afterwards lay quite helpless
at the benevolent mercy of doctors and
nurses. When she had recovered strength
enough to venture on a second outburst she
indulged herself. She would go to Marlborough

Court or die. They had almost
killed her by throwing her into a rage. They
knew her infirmity of temper, and they all
worked upon it and traded on it. They
wanted to find a means to kill her safely, but
she would disappoint them, banded cheats
and villains as they were. She threw the
whole household into chaos on this occasion,
and refused to be quieted until she had raged
herself once more to a standstill, and could
no longer articulate a word.

I learned all this, and something more,
from Dr. Mason, who now made a call upon
the patient daily. There are few people
whose passive endurance of foolish whims
and unreasonable rages can be compared
with that of a doctor, and Mason, who had
had an experience extraordinary alike for
extent and variety, had at one time practised
in lunacy, and was as little affected by her
ladyship s w41d tantrums as glass is affected
by water.

'The fact is,' he told me, 'there is an

actual discernible touch of madness in these
displays of rage. The woman begins, so far
as sanity is a thing to be measured, in a frame
of mind as sane as yours or mine. But she
starts with the definite intention of handing
herself over to delirium, and she does it. If
she likes to kill herself nobody can be very
sorry, and nobody can prevent her from
doing it.'

This talk took place in my own study,
rather late one night, when the doctor had
seen his last patient for the day, and could
afford to smoke his sole cigar. He prized
that nightly enjoyment very dearly, and ashe
was in great request amongst ladies it was
only possible for him at a time when he could
make tolerably sure that none of his patients
would send for him. Knowing my intimacy
with Pole he was pretty free in his comments
on the situation, and Lady Worborough's
character appeared to interest him deeply.

'It's a queer room that,' he said, ' with
its two opposites in it. It's really a little

astonishing to reflect that they belong to the
same species. Lady Worborough doesn't
guess who her nurse is, and in an odd sort
of way she's developing a liking for her.
Not that there's anything astonishing in that,
per se. x-\lmost anybody might be excused
for taking a liking to ]\Iiss Delamere. By
the way,' he interjected, ' I have been once
or twice in danger of making trouble. ]meeting
]\Iiss Delamere here without that Sister
of Mercy raiment of hers. I have been half
inclined to forget my old acquaintance. Sister
Constance. She lives in my mind as ]\Iiss
Delamere. I think of her as Miss Delamere,
and my instinct is to speak of her as bliss
Delamere. Now that instinct might bring
about an awkward position if it were yielded
to in Lady Worborough's presence. You
understand me, Denham. I'm not disputing
the goodness or beauty of the action. But
women have a curious love of romance. They
like to find themselves in romantic and picturesque
situations. It is meat and drink to

VOL. Ill L

a woman to be a living part in a moving
story. We drudge along, contented with our
daily duties, and after four or five - and-twenty
have no particular desire to be mixed
up with wonders. But a woman is never
tired of the romantic aspect of things. I'm
a great believer in the sex myself, and a
great admirer of it, but if you'll look at the
question, a great many of the best feminine
qualities are bound up with this love of
romance, and are almost a part of it. A
woman of ninety is just as ready to discover
a romance as a girl of sixteen. They never
tire of it.'

For my part I have never been too fond
of analysing human motives, when they
happen to be either good in themselves or to
lead to good results. It may be worth while
to analyse the motives of a rascal, and to
discover the grounds he has for self-excuses,
and thereby to minimise one's natural loathing
for him. But though some find it amusing
and instructive, I have never cared to

macerate the motives of the good in search
of the one possible thread of folly or of
meanness which may run through them.
There are plenty of people in the world who
are willing to take up that task, and I prefer
the other. So I declined to follow up the
question of feminine romantic instinct which
the doctor had started.

'You really think I asked, 'that Lady
Worborough is growing attached to ]\Iiss
Delamere ^

Bless you, yes,' returned the doctor, who,
though profoundly good-hearted, was yet a
bit of a cynic in his way. ' I've seen a sort
of affection displayed by a rattlesnake for its
keeper. '

I had hardly intended to put the question
in that light. I had been bred in the belief,
though I have since had to abandon it, that
there is in every human creature somewhere
to be found a touch of goodness, and I was
certainly very far from believing Lady Marlborough
to be amongst the most inhuman of

her kind. She was passionate and scornful
and self-willed, and had been guilty in intention
of one most cruel and terrible crime, but
it had not occurred to me to place her outside
the reach of human sympathy. Indeed,
I thought it very likely that if the key to her
heart could but be found there might be a
chamber in it somewhere yet, where some
relics of affection and tenderness were stored.
I thought that Mary Delamere was as likely
as any creature in the world to find that
chamber, and even to be welcomed into it.

We have had to pack off the hired nurse
to-day,' the doctor continued, as he nursed
his solitary cigar, and made the most of his
enjoyment of it. ' She is an excellent woman,
and I have sent in a report of her conduct
which I fancy will be of use to her. But her
ladyship either couldn't endure her, or made
up her mind that she wouldn't endure her.
The nurse stuck to it like a Briton, but
when at last it was decided that she should
go she was the happiest woman in London.

I have sent in another to succeed her, but
she is a copper-haired lady of pepper' temperament,
and I fancy there will be another
rupture very soon. In point of fact her
ladyship's shindies with the nurse were not
intended to do much more than to express
a preference for ]\Iiss Delamere. If ever
she grows strong enough to be removed to
Worborough Court she will want Miss Delamere
to accompany her. She's quite sufficiently
ungracious and disagreeable with the
companion of her choice, but with everybody
else she is a constant brash of bitter waters.
There are loads of people in the world who,
if they were invited to discriminate between
Richard the Saint and Robert the Sinner,
couldn't for their lives endure to say that
Richard was better than Robert. They'd
say that Robert was worse than Richard, and
find it soothing to themselves to indicate the
difference in that fashion. In a really benevolent
humour they might say he was a
great deal worse ; but they wouldn't get

higher than that. It's Lady Worborough's
fashion of complimenting Miss Delamere to
fly into rages with the paid attendants. It's
noticeable that she never flies into a rage
with her.'

He went on smoking with that air of
subdued, intense enjoyment which is only
displayed by the self-denying devotee of
tobacco, and shortly resumed.

There's another thing, my boy. Miss
Delamere's a lady, and Lady Worborough is
not a lady, and in her secret soul she's afraid
of her attendant's breeding. She dare not
launch out on her as she does at everybody
else. It's curious, when you come to think
of it, how important we all are to ourselves.
It hurts us to be despised, and above all
things in the world we can't afford to despise
ourselves. To despise one's self is a thing
that most men of sense arrive at, at one time
or another ; but nobody does it willingly,
any more willingly than he puts his hand
in the fire. And, don't you see, when you

want to conserve your own good opinion,
it's useful to have just a little shred of somebody
else's to train it by. Anything will
serve. The blankest, barest wall in the
world is good enough for ivy to cling to, or
the rottenest old tree - trunk that ever got
ready to tumble. But the healthiest hop or
scarlet-runner won't grow without what we
call a rise in my part of the country. It
must have a stick to hold on to.'

He took a long pull at his cigar, and after
rolling the smoke about enjoying in his
mouth, expelled it by the nostrils, and went
on again, with the air of a man satisfied with
his own philosophic attitude.

If I were a betting man I'd bet a million
sterling to a halfpenny that in case Lady
Worborough should ever be strong enough to
go down to Devonshire Miss Delamere goes
with her. I can see her winding her coils
about her closer and closer day by day. I
doubt if she'd care to take the trouble if she
knew her nurse's real name ; but she's making

up to her bit by bit, and leading her as to
believe that she's the only creature in the
world to cling to, and flattering her with the
belief that she can soften her, and believing
in it just a little bit, mind you, and being
softened just a little bit in reality. There's a
lot of human nature in man, my young friend,
and we are mostly made up of humbug.'

'Come, come, doctor,' I urged ; 'is there
any humbug on the other side ?'

Did you ever,' the doctor asked me in
return, 'read Pascal's panegyric on salt? I
could write a similar panegyric, if I were to
give my mind to it, on humbug. It holds the
world together. Kill it outright, and you
would kill benevolence, philanthropy, love,
and friendship. Everything includes a bit
of make-believe.'

I fought hotly against this shameful
heresy; but the doctor refused all challenges
to personal example, and sheltered himself
behind the ample breastwork afforded by
generalities.

'Well,' he said at last, ' you ficrht in defence
of your goddess very pluckily. Of
course I have the best of the argument, and
have had all along. That goes without
saying. But if you need it for your comfort,
I don't mind admitting — she isn't a goddess ;
but she's a rare good woman, and if we were
all like her we should be ready for the
millennium.'

'We should be more than ready for it,' I
responded ; ' we should be living in it."

'Well,' he answered, with a deep, rolling
laugh, which I had discovered to be in him
a most expansive expression of good-fellowship,
' if you set any store by ]^Iiss Delamere's
society, you'd better keep an eye
upon the patient. She's trying her best to
wean her away from you, and to enlist her
in her own cause.' He rose, and threw the
remnant of his cigar into the fire, stretching
out his arms afterwards in an abandonment
of rest, looking smilingly at me the
while.

Denham,' he said, with sudden seriousness,
' I don't often talk about these things.
It's my business to attend to ailments which
are purely physical, and I don't pry into the
spiritual machinery any farther than is
necessary for my purposes. But I saw a
sight this afternoon. I have told you already
how Lady Worborough's twining herself
about Miss Delamere. When I went in to
see her this afternoon she was sitting propped
up on a bed-rest in a heap of pillows, and
Miss Delamere was sitting at the bedside.
They were holding one another's hands, and
Miss Delamere was reading out of the Bible.
Nice, pretty, clear, grave voice she has.' He
said this with an air of transparent commonplace,
which I took to be somewhat exaggerated.


There is a good deal of humbug in the
world, doctor,' I said quietly. He pretended
for an instant not to see my drift, and then
responded —

You're quite right, Denham. There was

a little bit of it there ; but it was all on one
side.'

I asked him why the unhappy woman
should not be drawn towards some tender
and sacred thoughts by Mary's constant
patience and kindness.

I dare say she is a little bit,' he answered.
• But she pretends to a good deal more than
she feels. She wants to have a lady about
her. She wants to feed her own sense of
self-esteem. There may be some affection
mixed with it, but it isn't very real. And
when you know, as well as I do, what a
general hash alcohol can make of the human
emotions, you may come to be of my opinion
about a good many pyrotechnic displays
which excite admiration and wonder just at
present, and set your own internal fireworks
going by the mere contact of a spark.'

I shall have some hope,' I said, ' if Lady
Worborough begins on any ground to care
for Miss Delamere. Do you think she will
ever be able to go to Worborough Court ?'

If she could command her temper,' he
responded, ' she might gain strength in a
week or a fortnight ; but the whole thing is
a question of time. She won't last a year,
and if she goes on fretting herself as she
does, she'll wear herself out in half the time.
Tant 7nieux, say I. But then I'm a brute
and a cynic, and a believer in the doctrines
of Utopia.'

I saw no more of him, and learned no
more of the actual progress of this history
for a week. At the end of that time he came
again. Clara had some slight ailment which
really demanded no particular care, and he
came more for the pleasure of a chat with me
than for professional reasons. I was able to
offer him the cigar he liked best, for in that
matter, as it happened, our tastes agreed,
though we found ourselves differing widely
on matters of far greater importance.

Her ladyship will take possession,' he
said. ' There is a mighty change for the
better in her ways and manners. She goes

now like sweet oil upon a whetstone. She
has got a kind of mania to the effect that weare
all in a conspiracy to kill her by pretending
that she can't go down to Worborough
Court because she isn't strong enough, and
so leading her on to outbursts of temper.
Now, with a kind of half-crazed cunning, for
in point of fact that's what it actually comes
to, she has made up her mind to defeat our
machinations, and has taken up the line of
the resigned and suffering martyr. She does
whatever she is told to do. She takes her
medicine and her food with the most touching
submissiveness, always with a plainly expressed
belief that they are poisoned for her,
and she clings to ]^Iiss Delamere with a
surprising tenderness. She hasn't slanged
the copper-haired nurse this four days, and
everybody is touched by her resignation and
newborn gentleness. Meantime, I have
discovered that a little servant has been
bribed with promises to smuggle in brandy
and laudanum. I anticipate an outburst, but

I have been compelled to see that young
woman out of the house. I offered to bet
you a million sterling to a halfpenny that
Miss Delamere would accompany her. Now,
I will give the solar system against a used
lucifer match Miss Delamere will go if Lady
Worborough goes.'

It was not only from Dr. Invasion that I had
news of the change which had taken place
in Lady Worborough. Night after night
Mary returned full of it, and opened her
heart to Clara and myself without reserve.
She had none of the doctor's practised knowledge
of the world, and I do not believe that
all the knowledge of its own ways the world
could bring her could ever have taught her
his fashion of looking at things.

'She is softening,' she would say. 'She
is so changed I hardly know her. She clings
to me in a way which I find very touching,
and sometimes the poor thing makes allusions
to the past and the sad mistakes of her own
life, which almost bring tears into my eyes.

She is very unhappy and very much alone.
I asked her this afternoon about her friends.
She gave a Httle dreary laugh. '' My friends !
I have worn them out years ago. I have no
friends." '

This, I am fain to confess, sounded more
real than Dr. Mason's account would have
led me to think it. But then, in this story
as in every other, so much depended on the
telling. The doctor told it cynically, and
was more than half right, I dare say. Mary
told it sympathetically, and I fancy she was
not much more than half wrong.

By and by, to my own surprise, came an
invitation to myself. Why, the sick woman demanded,
did Mr. Denham keep away ? The
most obvious answer to that query was that
Mr. Denham had had no reason for going ;
but when the inquiry was once made there
was nothing for it but to accept the invitation
it indicated, and to pay Lady Worborough a
visit. I was the readier to do this because
of the conflicting nature of the testimony I

XXXVII THE WEAKER VESSEL i^

received about her. I was a little anxious to
see for myself how far the change in her
manner was real and how far assumed, if
assumed at all. I made my way to the house
the following afternoon, and after a little
pause was shown into her ladyship's chamber.
She was certainly a great deal improved in
aspect since we had first lighted upon her in
Green Hill Court, and the memory of what
she had looked like then made so strong a
contrast with her present aspect that she
looked much better than she really was.
When the first effect of surprise had left my
mind, I saw that there was still something
of that same ghastly fatal look which I had
remarked before. Everybody who has been
in close attendance upon an invalid doomed to
a long and lingering illness, and doomed past
recovery, sees these strange fluctuations of
expression. The sick face brightens and fills
out, but visible under that surface improvement
the unmistakable marks lie scarcely
disguised.

VOL. Ill M

/

ici THE WEAKER VESSEL chap.

She held out a weak thin right hand as I
approached her, and I confess that, as I took
it in my own, the unexpected gesture of amity
and welcome made a considerable impression
upon me.

I asked after her health, and she responded
with a feeble lightness that she was better,
much better.

The doctor shakes his head, but then he
is not here to encourage me. That is no
part of his business, but I know from my own
feelings that I am mending very fast. By
and by I shall be running about again.'

One could say nothing to kill a hope like
that, or even to chill it by a breath, but
ignorant as I was I knew better than to
believe it. I managed to say something
about courage being of infinite use in such a
case, but she seemed to take little heed of my
answer, and only motioned me to a seat.

Sister Constance tells me,' she said, ' that
she has known you for quite a long time.
You are not like the others. I can see that

for myself. You are a great friend of Lord
Worborough's ?'

In one interview already chronicled she
had alluded to my intimacy with her husband
in terms which were anything but flattering.
I recalled them now, and though it would
have been absurd enough to remember them
with malice or with anger against a creature
so afflicted, the remembrance certainly saved
me from accepting her present overtures
with too great alacrity. I answered simply
that her husband was the greatest friend
I had in the world, and waited to hear
further.

'You look unsuspicious,' she said, 'and
you are not very old. But I wonder that
you have not found him out.' I thought
that I knew most that was to be found out
about him already, but I said nothing. ' That,
however,' she went on, with a martyred
smile which gave me the first real clue to
her temper and intention, ' was not what I
wanted to talk to you about. I want you to

carry a message to Lord Worborough. Will
you take it for me ?'

Certainly,' I answered.

Mary was standing gravely at the foot of
the bed with a piece of sewing in her hands.
I gave an involuntary glance at her, which she
did not see. I had a feeling of awkwardness
in conducting any conversation about Pole in
her presence, but it was not to be avoided,
and the only thing to do was to go through
it without betraying either her or myself.

You will not believe what I am going to
tell you,' said Lady Worborough, 'but it is
true all the same.' Her manner bespoke so
remarkable a resignation, so profound a certainty
beforehand of being misunderstood,
or even maligned, and gave so ostentatious
a prophecy of forgiveness, that I was ready
for almost anything in the way of mischievous
suggestion. ' I have resolved not to be disturbed
by it any further, because I can see
that my only hope of safety lies in keeping
quite calm and quiet. Dr. Mason and nurse

James, who went away, and the nurse who
is now here, and one or two others whom I
could name, have had instructions from Lord
Worborough. The doctor was so foolishly
candid as to tell me that my only chance of
recovery lay in keeping quiet, and since he
let that slip I have contrived perfectly to
battle his lordship's intentions.'

x\nd his lordship's intentions are ?'

Lord Worborough,' she answered, with a
smile which expressed at once knowledge of
her own shortcomings and forgiveness for
this injurious husband, ' Lord Worborough
knows my infirmity of temper.' I thought
that very much more than probable. I
thought of one or two of the horrible scenes
Pole had sketched for me, and I recalled the
exhibitions I myself had seen. ' He has
instructed his creatures to do their best to
betray me into fits of violence, and his object,
of course, was to bring about his own freedom.
You know how anxious he has been
to be rid of me, ls\x. Denham. When that

absurd and groundless report of my death
was circulated, he made no inquiry. He setup
a stone to my memory over the body of a
stranger.'

I answered that I was intimately acquainted
with the whole history of that
episode, and she gave me just one swift sidelong
glance in quite the old fashion. It was
as quick as a glance well could be. It lasted
no longer than a flash of lightning, but it
illuminated everything, just as a flash of
lightning will. Her ladyship, however, was
not playing to me alone. She had an
audience of two, and I suppose she fancied
that she was carrying half of It with her.
She must have known beforehand that I
knew too much to be cheated In that barefaced
way.

I have asked you,' she said, ' to carry a
message to Lord Worborough, and you have
promised.' I inclined my head in silent
assent to this, but I began to guess what the
character of the message was to be, and to

think it very unlikely that her husband would
receive it at my hands. ' You may tell him.
if you please,' she continued, ' that sickness
has not had the effect upon me which he
anticipated. I am a good deal subdued by
it, and in place of being more easily angry, I
find that I am growing patient. The doctor's
indiscretion was a great help to me, and
Sister Constance helps me continually. You
may tell Lord \\^orborough that I am armed
against anv annoyance he may brins: to bear
upon me. I am resolved to live, and I am
resolved to get strong enough to go to scarborough
Court as soon as possible.'

Mar' had taken a seat near the foot of the
bed, and was sewing with apparent tranquillity,
though the red spot which burned
upon the pallor of her cheek told me something
of what was going on within doors.

That is the message you desire me to
deliver to your husband?' I asked her. It
would be futile to pretend that I was not
angry but it would have been more futile

Still by far to have shown anger there. I
took a leaf out of her ladyship's book, and
was almost as meek and long-suffering in
manner as herself.

That is my message,' she responded.

I told her I would willingly do anything
in my power to oblige her. ' But your ladyship
will see,' I urged, 'that if I take this
message — if I even so much as name it to
him, I shall at least give myself the air of
thinking it worth mention.'

'You decline to take it, then?' Her
voice was quite sweet and amiable, but I got
another quick illuminating glance before she
spoke.

'I am afraid,' I answered, 'that I must
decline to take it. I cannot even appear to
share in your belief.'

'Will you ask Lord Worborough to call
upon me,' she asked, ' so that I myself may
give him the message ?'

I must beg your ladyship's pardon still,'
I answered.

Oh, my ladyship, my ladyship !' she said,
in a tone of gentle irony. ' What has a poor
stricken creature like myself to do with
earthly titles of honour ?'

I answered, ' What indeed ?' in a tone as
near her own as I could make it. It was not
kindly, I dare say, but I was growing a little
sick of the savage farce she played, and was
willing to end it as soon as might be. Mary
glanced up at me with a startled and almost
frightened look, and half arose as if in anticipation
of an outburst. But Lady Marlborough
merely turned her head upon her
pillows, and looked at me with a glance of
amused intelligence. It was the very first
sign of humour I had seen in her, and I was
both relieved and pleased. I had regretted
my words as soon as I had spoken them, but
her ladyship was in the mind for self-control,
and was evidently determined not to be
shaken from it.

So,' she said, ' you will not even ask
Lord Worborough to come here ?'

To listen to that accusation ? No,
madam. I cannot undertake to do it. Lord
Worborough is in London, and if you have
any serious reason for wishing to see him, I
am sure he will come to you with all reasonable
speed. But you are armed so strong in
patience that you can afford to allow these
wicked machinations to go on unnoticed.'

I should like them to be put a stop to,'
she said, with a resigned sigh at failure.
I know my own infirmities, as I have told
you. My temper is not of the best, even
now.'

I was wise enough to keep to myself my
own opinions upon that matter, and when I
had sat in silence for some time she stretched
out her weak and wasted hand again with an
expression of tolerance and meekness which
would have done credit to a saint. I was
unregenerate enough to rejoice in the certainty
that she was greatly disappointed in
not having made me angry, and that she was
boiling inwardly beneath that sanctified calm

of hers. I had a more legitimate ground
for satisfaction in the fact that the interview
had come to an end with no outbreak on
either side.

I am not angry at your refusal, Mr.
Denham,' she said, ' though I am disappointed
by it. I had hoped that you would
take my message. I like you, and I hope
that we may see more of each other.'

This was a wish I could not echo, but I
got over my leave-taking with as good a
grace as possible, and left the house, glad
that the ordeal was at an end. Walking
homeward, I had time to think things over,
and I came to two definite conclusions with
respect to her ladyship's condition and intentions.
She had about as much belief in that
story about Pole and the conspiracy between
him, the doctor, and the nurses, as I myself
had. But the change in the manifestation of
that remarkable temper was real, and had a
real purpose. She had discovered that it
was possible to get almost as much satisfaction

out of the act of maddening other people
as by maddening herself.

It was so much more wholesome, so much
safer in her present condition, that the discovery
naturally tempted her towards experiment.
Then, above all other things, she
wanted to get down to Worborough Court,
and to establish her reign there. Thinking
how brief her triumph must be, attended
with how many pains of mind and body, I
began almost to wonder at myself for having
grudged it. When your enemy is strong
and knows how to be harmful, and you have
a right to dread his implacable, sleeping
hate, it comes natural to the heart to hate
him in return ; but when he lies vanquished
and helpless, or even when his capacity for
mischief is strictly measured and confined,
you can begin to pity the gnawing miseries
of his disappointment. I have disliked one
or two people very strongly in my time, but
I have never hated anybody. I have thought
sometimes with Hamlet that I was pigeon-liveried

and lacked gall to make oppression
bitter. But I have known good haters —
without loving them — and have, in a vague
and shadowy way, no doubt, savoured in
imagination the bitterness of the gall which
poisoned life to them. Of all people in the
world I know none so pitiable. Hate is the
true Tantalus torture. It cannot be slaked.
Of its very nature it refuses to be satisfied.
To satisfy it were to kill it, and it craves for
immortality, alike for its victim and itself.
I am not speaking of dislikes which pass for
hatred, but of the real, royal thing itself.

As for poor Lady Worborough, it was
surely worth no man's or woman's while to
stir her venom, let her make what outward
show of it she might. I am not master of the
technicalities of the case, but. if I remember
rightly what Dr. Mason told me, the paralysis
was mounting, seizing little by little ;
like an enemy advancing across a whole
country, slowly, driving life before it step by
step. Her general aspect, to the untaught

eye, would have seemed all the while to improve
with considerable regularity, and she
herself was fully persuaded that her ultimate
recovery was certain if she could but repress
those outbursts of passion which she now
recognised as being dangerous to her.

In the course of two or three weeks Mary
brought intelligence of the doctor s permission
for the desired journey. We got news
of clasped petitionary hands, and prayers
and tears from Lady Worborough to Sister
Constance. She would not, could not, go
without her. She was bent on going, would
brave death itself to go, but the great lonely,
friendless house frightened her. It was quite
conceivable even then, though I did not
realise it until later, that her ladyship's lie had
grown into a reality for her, and that she
really dreaded to be left altogether alone
amongst strangers for other than merely
sentimental reasons.

Mary took the whole matter with that
direct simplicity which was a part of her.

I have promised to go with her,' she
said, in answer to Clara, who at first was
strongly opposed to the idea. 'If I had
met her in another way, or had learned of
her suffering in another way, it might have
been different. I cannot leave her now. I
believe,' she added frankly, ' that I am the
only creature in the world she cares for and
the only one she trusts. I must stay with
her until the end.'

It was so impossible, all things considered,
to discuss the question, and the whole position
of affairs was so unprecedented, that we were
compelled to say very little about the decision.
I received another message from Lady Marlborough,
requesting me to call upon her, but
I was convinced that she was using me as a
sort of instrument through which she might
possibly play upon her husband, and at first
I sent back word that I was otherwise engaged
and could not then find time to visit
her. The message was repeated, this time
through Mary.

She wants John,' said Mary, turning
upon Clara, ' to accompany us to Worborough
Court. For my part I should be glad if he
would do it. I do not think that she will try
to make things uncomfortable by the way.'

Go,' said Clara. ' I should like to know
that Mary was comfortably installed there.
And mind, my dear ' — this was addressed
to Mary, and spoken with much vivacity
and determination — 'you are not to make a
martyr of yourself down there. That woman
is quite capable of asking you to accompany
her down there for no other purpose than to
make your life unbearable. And now I come
to think of it, I shall be very glad if Lady
Worborough has taken a fancy to John and
wants to see him often. I don't care much
what her purpose is if the freak only brings
me pretty constant news of you. You will
go and see Lady Worborough, John, as often
as you are asked, and you will keep your
eyes open and let me know the truth about
what is going on down there. I am not

going to lose ]diary, or have her hurt, for all
the Lady Worboroughs in the world.'

I called on Dr. Mason that evenings and
learned from him that his permission for the
journey had actually been given. The doctor
who attended the case under him was to
accompany the patient and to spend a day or
two with her. He would carry with him
notes of the case and instruct any local practitioner
Lady Worborough might choose.
There were three or four great houses within
a radius of four or five miles, and a considerable
number of wealthy residents, so that it
was quite certain that there would be some
really capable medical man in the neighbourhood.


During this time I saw but little of Pole.
Notwithstanding the close friendship between
us, it was impossible that he should be a
visitor at my house during mary's stay there,
and he had taken up his residence in a drear'
little villa by the river, a dozen miles from
town. On his invitation I visited him there

VOL. Ill N

the day before the intended emigration to
Worborough.

My wife,' he said, ' has refused to sign
the document of peace between us until she
can sign it at Worborough. You are going
down with her ? I heard as much from the
lawyer. Goldsmith is to be there to meet
her. I shall take my seat in the House at the
beginning of the session and start on work
of some kind. I have two or three ideas
floating about in my mind, but I haven't
decided yet. Miss Delamere is well .^^ ' He
put the question with an odd abruptness
which it was easy for me to understand. I
told him all about her, and I told him also
of the engagement his wife had attempted to
lay upon me. It was one thing to tell him
that I had refused the office, and another to
have been her ladyship's messenger. ' That
would look a little like madness,' he said, * and
I would rather think that she had not been
altogether responsible for herself all along.
Mason tells me that her life is a question of

months only, and it would help me to the
state of mind I want to get into if I could
think it was not herself who has done all the
mischief. It's a hard matter to trace responsibility
at any time, and the people who
sin are in the main the people who are
punished. She has suffered enough for all
her sins, even if she went to them with her
eyes open, for they were of a sort which bring
their own punishment.'

I believe that after this, until the end, and
beyond the end of that tragic episode, when
he was happy and useful, and found full
scope for the exercise of all his gifts, he
never nourished an angry thought or spoke
a bitter word about his wife. I had not been
sure of my own wisdom in telling him the
story, but since it persuaded him that she had
all along been irresponsible, and since it
helped him to forgive her, and to be tender
and pitiful in his thoughts of her, I could
hardly have done a wiser or more friendly act.

Next day we started off, Mary, the young

doctor, and I, accompanying the invalid
towards that installation for which Lady
Worborough longed so passionately. Pole
had sent his carriage to convey the patient
to the railway station, and her eyes glittered
with pride at the sight of the equipage and
the liveried servants. There was another
servant in waiting for us at the terminus,
deputed to accompany us upon our journey,
and at the few halting-places on the way he
appeared at the door of the railway carriage
to know if his services were in any way required.
After each of these visits the poor
woman brightened perceptibly, and when we
had once passed Exeter her spirits mounted
almost to fever heat. The sight of two other
carriages waiting for her at the local station,
and of more liveried servants, so excited her
with pride and the sense of conquest that,
what with triumph and fatigue, she had to
wipe away a tear or two.

She had been to Worborough Court before,
but not under similar auspices. On her first

visit she had conquered the place, as it were,
by sudden stealth and stratagem ; now she
came like its mistress, and was received with
honours, which to her eyes must have seemed
almost reofal. She was carried to her own
carriage and laid down in it amidst the
wondering gazes of a score of onlookers and
loungers, and then we were all borne swiftly
and smoothly off, the young doctor and I
bringing up the rear. The lodge gates swung
open before us, and we drove up the long
curved avenue between the stately trees
which stood grim and gaunt against the fading
brightness of the upper skies. The house
gleamed with lights, and the hall, from the
outer dimness, shone with a golden splendour.
The doctor leapt down from my side to
superintend the conduct of Lady Worborough
to her room. She carried a fan in her hand,
and as she was borne past the lintel she
stretched out her arm and struck it, as if to
say that she claimed it for her own.

She was extremely prostrated by the journey,

but she rallied for the moment, and
turned her face towards Mary with an exalted
smile.

'You are welcome, my dear,' she said,
'to Worborough Court.'

She was carried at once to the chamber
which had been made ready for her, and I
was left alone. The housekeeper personally-conducted
me to my room. She had been
there in the late Lord Worborough's time,
and she and I were already acquainted with
each other. I thought she lingered about
me unnecessarily, and supposed that she was
very curious, and eager to talk if I had but
given her an opening. I made no conversational
advances, and she was too well disciplined
by long service to initiate operations,
though I dare say it cost her a considerable
effort to repress her desires that way. I sat
for a long time alone, thinking of the paralysed
woman brought to live in that great

lonely house and in that solitary, miserable
splendour. There had been something
melancholy from the first in the mere
prospect of Pole's accession to wealth and
title, and she, poor thing, had been the sole
cause of the shadow which rested on that
brilliant fortune. Even she herself became
pitiable in the gloom for which she was herself
responsible. She had only triumphed
by force of her misery, and to have all and to
enjoy nothing is surely a bitter and pitiable
lot. I found my own thoughts such poor
and exhilarating company that I was well
pleased indeed to be joined by the doctor.
He also had begun to find the place oppressive,
and he confided to me the fact that
though he had never been so handsomely
lodged or paid in the whole course of his life,
he would be glad when he could get back to
places less mournful, if less distinguished.

Goldsmith, who started from town an hour
or two after our arrival at Worborough, appeared
next morning rather less glossy and

smiling than usual, after a cold night's journey.
Pole's lawyer travelled by the same train, but
the two reached the Court by different vehicles,
though within a few minutes of each other.
It fell upon me to receive them both, and
Goldsmith was evidently unhappy at my
presence, which he could hardly have expected.
When he had changed his dress and
breakfasted, his native courage reasserted
itself a little, and he made some faint overtures
to talk. Pole's man of business was
a very stately personage, who might himself
have been the owner of the place, and he and
Goldsmith were so far asunder that they
might have been born in different planets.
The little Jew solicitor was by no means
as ready to recognise this difference as the
man of higher standing, but it existed, and it
made an impression even upon him. Pole's
lawyer was a little ruffled, in a lofty way,
at meeting a person of i\Ir. Goldsmith's
aspect and manners, and once at least he
gave him to understand in my hearing that

their meeting bore an exclusively business
character.

Old cock's a bit stuck-up, don't you think,
Bister Dedham ? ' said Goldsmith, appealing
to me. ' He's been longer in the profession
than I have, and I dare say he has a more
profitable connection, but a solicitor's a gentleman,
and nobody can be any more.'

He was propitiatory with me, and ill at
ease in the remembrance of our last interview.
I told him roundly that if Lord Worborough's
solicitor knew what I could tell him he would
have refused the meeting altogether. I added
that nothing but his lordship's dread of scandal
had saved Mr. Goldsmith from the ignominy
of being struck from the rolls, and that I
wondered somewhat at his audacity in coming
there, even at Lady Worborough's command.

'Well,' he said, with a sort of desperate
resignation, ' I shall never get anybody to
understand what happened. You wait till you
get Lady Worborough about you. Bister Ded-ham.
There isn't much she couldn't make

you do if she set her wits to work about it.
She ain't a bit Hke ad ordinary woman. Ad
ordinary woman wouldn't have let me into
such a risk. You're no fool, you know, Bister
Dedham, judging by the look of you. You'd
never have dreamt of taking on a risk like
that. If anybody had told me / should do it
I should have kicked him. I've kicked a
man before to-day od a question of outraged
honour. But Lady Worborough is exceptional.
She's a very remarkable person, is
Lady Worborough.' .

Pole's lawyer, as I could see, was anxious
to get his business over and begone, though
since he could only catch the night train at
earliest, and had no other affairs in the
neighbourhood, he was as well placed at
Worborough Court as elsewhere. Her ladyship
certainly appeared to think so, for she
made no haste to see him. The morning
was, for the season of the year, particularly
mild and sunny, and a little before noon she
caused herself to be carried from her rooms

on the first floor, and was set into a bath-chair,
which had been by her orders disinterred
from the coach-house. It was a
very ancient affair, and though it had been
cleaned and furbished as completely as the
time permitted, it sent a certain ghostly
odour abroad upon the clear wintry air.
Nothing less would satisfy Lady Worborough
than that I should push her about the
gravelled drive in this cumbrous and ancient
vehicle. I received the request certainly with
some surprise, and at first, as I confess, with
a little anger, but it did not seem worth while
to argue it, and I obeyed her wish. I had
arranged already to go back to town with
Pole's lawyer, and since my stay was so extremely
brief, it seemed on the whole worth
while to humour the stricken and self-willed
creature.

I want to drink in this lovely place,' she
said, when I presented myself in obedience
to her wish. * Push me to a little distance,
please, so that I can admire the house. I

feel very well and strong this morning, and
the fresh air will do me good. I shall soon
be walking about again, the doctors are quite
confident of it.'

As a matter of fact the doctors were quite
confident in an opposite opinion. Neither
of them believed that she would ever walk
again ; but she so clung to her own belief,
and so emphatically reiterated it in their
presence, that she had to all appearance persuaded
herself that they shared her view. She
brooked no contradiction, and the slightest
sign of it in respect to a desire so dearly
cherished as this would arouse a dangerous
paroxysm of anger.

When I had wheeled her to a distance of
a hundred yards from the house she asked
me to turn her round. She was buried to the
chin in a dark fur rug, and she wore a black
bonnet trimmed with scarlet. The sombre
colour of her surroundings and the bright
scarlet ribbon between them threw her face
into a strongly accented pallor. Her thinned

features and bright dark eyes had an eerie
and almost preternatural look. She called
me to her side, and sat looking at the house,
without speaking, for quite a considerable
length of time. Then she turned her eyes
upon me with a repetition of that same
strange and exalted smile I had seen the
night before.

'That is Worborough Court,' she said,
nodding her head almost imperceptibly, ' and
I ' — with a repetition of the same slight
gesture — ' am Lady Worborough.'

There was something so odd in the tone
and in the words that I could not help looking
at her rather keenly. She took note of
this, and answered my look with another
smile, which seemed to cover a meaning of
some sort, though I could not divine it.

*I am Lady Worborough,' she said, 'and
that is Worborough Court. Those two
gentlemen at the windows are the lawyers,
I suppose. Oh yes, I recognise Mr. Goldsmith.
Will you signal to them, if you

please ? Wave your hat to them. They
are bound to see you.'

I did as she requested, but the signal
brought out Goldsmith alone. Pole's lawyer
had either not seen it, or did not recognise it
as being meant for him, or did not care to
answer that informal summons.

Wheel me a little farther,' said her ladyship.
' They will follow.'

I obeyed her again, and wheeled her away
from the house with extreme slowness. Turning
my head, I saw that Goldsmith was following
us at a more rapid pace, and would
soon overtake us. He came up with us in a
while, panting somewhat, and her ladyship
once more demanded to be turned round.

'That is my house, i\Ir. Goldsmith,' she
said. ' I am pleased to offer you its hospitality.'


Goldsmith glanced at me, and a little later
slipped behind the chair and whispered, ' I
say.' He said nothing further, but tapped
his forehead significantly. I feigned to take

no notice of him, and Lady Worborough
asked in a cold, clear voice —

What do you say ? '

Goldsmith, with a sidelong look of dismay
at me, answered confusedly that it was a very
beautiful mansion.

I am very glad,' she said, in a voice of
satire, ' that it enlists your approval. Mr.
Denham, let Mr. Goldsmith take your place.
Come and talk to me. Mr. Goldsmith, wheel
me towards the lodge. Stop when I tell you.
I want to secure as many points of view as
possible. It is one thing to watch the house
as you approach it and another to turn round
and secure different points of view when you
are going away.'

Goldsmith followed her directions, as I had
done before him, turning and pausing when
she bade him, and turning round and going
on again when she bade him. At each survey
of the house she named it — ' That is Marlborough
Court ' — in a placid triumph. I did
my best not to look at Goldsmith, but I knew

that he was making faces to attract my attention,
and whenever I did look his way he
touched his forehead with a forefinger, and
his Hps inaudibly shaped some word, always
the same word, as I could see, though I could
not hear it. By and by, when we were within
a little distance of the lodge, I suggested that
it might be wise to go back again, and, to my
astonishment, she consented.

Turn me round, Mr. Goldsmith. The
air is a little chilly. It is very kind of you,
Mr. Denham, to be so careful of an invalid.
I am very much obliged to you, I am
sure.'

There was a tone of mockery in this, as
there was in most things she had said in my
hearing, but I was getting used to her by this
time, and paid no heed. As we turned slowly
round I saw for the first time that Mary was
approaching us, and I supposed she came to
warn her patient that it might be unsafe to
stay too long in the open air.

Well,' said Goldsmith, bringing the chair

VOL. Ill o

to a sudden standstill, * that's the rummest
start I ever knew in my life.'

'What is ?' her ladyship demanded, without
making an effort to turn.

'Why, that is,' Goldsmith answered.

I made a gesture, and gave him a look to
silence him, but Lady Worborough observed
me.

Come here, Mr. Goldsmith,' she said.
What is it you describe as a rum start ?'

He came round, staring in bewilderment
from me to the advancing figure of Miss
Delamere, and Lady Worborough's glance
followed the direction of his eyes. I had
never guessed until that moment that Mary
was known to Goldsmith, or had any reason
to guess it.

'What is it,' she demanded, 'that you
find surprising in the appearance of that
lady's'

I don't know,' said Goldsmith, evidently
bewildered by my gesture and, as I can well
guess, by the expression of my face. ' I

don't know that there's anything surprising
in the young lady. Only, she's the last
person id the world I should ever have expected
to see here.'

Indeed ! ' said her ladyship, with set
eyebrows and keen, glittering eyes. ' And
why.^'

Goldsmith spread his hands abroad with
a deprecatory gesture.

It's no affair of mine,' he said. * If she's
pleased to be here, and you like to have her
here I've got nothing to say to it.'

'Are you mad?' she asked him scornfully.


Dot much I ain't,' responded Goldsmith.
' If you choose to have Miss Delamere
about you, of all the yug ladies in the
world '

What ? ' she shrieked, turning madly
round on me, and tearing at the rugs which
were folded about her. The cr)' was so
shrill and piercing, so full of rage and amazement
and terror, that I seemed never to have

heard anything like it before from human
lips. Mary came forward swiftly in alarm
at this wild cry, and the wretched woman,
who had released her hands, waved them
threateningly at her with a mad repulsion.

'You will do yourself a mischief,' I cried,
and made an effort to return the furs to their
position. She repulsed me with an unexpected
strength, and then clutching the rug
tightly in her thin, unloved hands, sat,
wordless at first, glaring at the new-comer.
Then her lips began to move over the white
teeth clenched below them, and in a little
while she spoke, with a self-repression which
was no less than horrible to look at. The
white teeth were never opened, and she had
a look of thinking that she had them fast set
in something she was eager to rend.

So you are Miss Delamere,' she said.
'You have come here watching to see me
die that you may marry my husband. That
is the meaning of your Christian charity and
goodness, is it ? You have come down to

this great lonely house to poison me. Oh,
you traitress ! You wicked, smiling traitress.
If I could get at you I would pull you into
pieces with my hands.'

At first Mary was so bewildered at the
cry, and so overwhelmed by this mad accusation,
that she could answer nothing. In
the very midst of its impossibility the accusation
itself had a hideous kind of probability
in it. Even to me, the fact that it
could not in any distorted dream have
entered my mind, carried no weight against
it. It was hideous and unimaginable and

o

beyond all conceivable madness untrue,
and yet I really think that for the moment
it struck as heavily as if it had been truth
itself

You must have been a very wicked
woman. Lady Worborough,' said Mary,
tremblingly, ' to think such thoughts. You
cannot really think them. You do not really
think them. John,' she stretched out her
hands to me, and I took them in my own,

do you think that she can really believe a
thing like that of me — of anybody ?'

You shall take nothing from the house,'
said Lady Worborough, still speaking with
her teeth clenched together, and the same
dreadful set expression of her rage. ' You
shall not go from here until everything you
have is searched. We shall find poisons, and
there is a law to punish you. Oh, you wicked,
wicked, smiling traitress !'

What are you talking about ? ' said
Goldsmith. ' Nobody wants to poison you.'

'Are you in the plots' she demanded,
turning her eyes upon him.

'Yes,' said Goldsmith. 'I suppose I'm
in about as much as there is of it. You'd
better get id out of the cold at once. You'll
be catching your death if you don't, and
tied there'll be no need for anybody to
poison you. Put that rug up, and let me
wheel you into the house.'

Goldsmith's stolid indifference did something
towards calming the rest of us. His

disdain for her ladyship's suspicion was so
real and unaffected that even she was a little
disarmed by it. But she had at least a
woman whom she recognised as a rival in
her presence, and having never been easily
placable in her own life was not likely to
allow herself to be readily pacified here.

'You shall go,' she said, 'but you shall
be searched before you go. You meant to
poison me. Why else should you come
here?'

*I never asked to come here,' Mary
answered, stooping gently over her, her
voice and manner in strangest contrast with
those of the woman she addressed. ' I came
because you asked me, because I thought
you clung to me, and would rather have me
near you than anybody else you knew. I
came because I was sorry for you.'

Lady Worborough looked darkly at her
without answering.

Go on,' she said drily. ' Wheel me back
to the house. You go before ' — addressing

Mary. * I won't lose sight of you. You
meant to poison me.'

Goldsmith set the chair in motion, and
Mary and I went on a mere trifle in advance,
a foot or two only.

Keep your eye upon her. Goldsmith,' said
her ladyship. ' She wants to drop behind
and run away.'

Mary paused for an instant and laid her
hand upon the wheeled chaise in which the
poor thing sat.

I do not know,' she said with great
gentleness, ' how you can have thoughts so
foolish and so wicked. I will go, if you wish
it, and if you wish it you may have everything
belonging to me examined.'

Lady Worborough shot out a hand and
clutched her by the wrist.

Go on !' she cried to Goldsmith. ' I have
her now. She won't get away from me !'

Mary laid her free hand upon the hand
which held her, and I saw that her eyes filled
suddenly with tears.

Can't you believe, poor thing, that I was
sorry for you — that I was very, very sorry
for you ?'

Her ladyship suddenly released her, with
a curt command to go on in front again.
One of j\Iar\' s tears had brimmed over and
had fallen on her hand. She brushed it
away hurriedly, as though it had scalded
her, and folded herself tightly in her rugs.
I offered my arm to Mary, seeing that she
was in need of some support, and begged
her not to give this monstrous accusation a
moment's thought.

'I am not troubled by it,' she answered.
How could I be .^ But I am very sorry for
her.'

I said something about its being a poor
reward for all her kindness, but, to my
momentary amazement, she answered that it
was not unnatural, and, turning round upon
me, demanded if she had been in the wrong
to come here. I told her very warmly that
she had acted throughout the whole matter

like a saint, and after that we went on to the
house without exchanging a word. I had
known minutes before that the servants had
heard Lady Worborough s first cry, for they
had gathered in a knot at the hall door.
Some of them were still standing there when
we arrived. They were silent and respectful,
but attentive. It was easy to see that they
were curious as to the cause of the scream,
and the set face of their mistress and the
traces of Miss Delamere's tears must have
been enough in themselves to confirm their
natural suspicion of a scene. I dare say that
I myself showed some sign of disturbance,
though I did not think of this at the time.
The invalid chair which we had brought with
us from London was standing in the hall,
and was ready on our arrival.

Lift me out,' said her ladyship, 'and
carry me to my rooms. Let that woman goon
before, and watch her, so that she cannot
run away.'

I conducted Mary up the stairs, and left

her at the door of Lady Worborough's apartments.
We waited there in the corridor
until the invalid was brought up in her chair,
then the door was thrown open, and ]diary
entering before her she was carried into the
first chamber.

'Come in, Mr. Denham,' she said to mein
passing. ' Come in, Goldsmith. Stay
here, all of you.'

Goldsmith had followed the chair upstairs,
hat in hand, and now stood the most
self-possessed of any one of us, waving
the hat to and fro, and grinning, as if
amused, though his smile was certainly a
little uneasy.

'Send everybody here,' cried her ladyship
to one of the servants when we had
entered. ' Send Lord Worborough's lawyer
here and all the servants. Go some of you
to this woman's room, and bring down everything
she brought into this house. Everything
! Do you hear ? '

Lady Worborough,' I said, as quiet and

as firmly as I could, ' I will not permit you
to place any indignity upon this lady.'

I turned upon Goldsmith and the servants
and bade them leave the room, and, a little
to my surprise, they obeyed me. I had been
there before in the old lord's time as his
guest, and in close intimacy with their present
master. A good many of the old
servants had been re-engaged, or had never
actually been discharged, and one of the men
who had assisted in carrying her ladyship
upstairs remembered me. It was he who
led the way, and the others followed him.
Her ladyship raved, and commanded them
to stay, and one of them did actually linger
until I pushed him gently out from the
room. When our accuser had gone quiet
again I told her that since Miss Delamere
was pleased, in face of this monstrous accusation,
to have her belongings examined, I
had no objection to offer. The examination,
however, should be made decently and in
order. It was in itself sufficiently shameful

and Insulting, and nobody should witness it
except they two, the doctor and the woman
appointed to make the search. She, after a
long battle, consenting to this, I rang for
Lady Worborough's maid, and instructions
were given to her to gather the whole of
Miss Delamere's belongings, and to bring
them to that room. Next I despatched a
message for the doctor, and he and the maid
arriving at almost the same instant, I left the
four together.

I DO not remember to have been often so
angry and so grieved at once as this scene
had made me. I wished to cool myself, and
walking straight into the open air, I encountered
Goldsmith, who had lit a big cigar, and
was now swaggering with it on the drive
with an eye to the impression produced
upon the domestics by his raiment and his
jewellery.

'What's the meaning of all this, Bister
Dedham ? ' said the little man. ' What's it
all about ? '

I asked him in return how he came to
know Miss Delamere, and he beckoned me
on one side.

'Mrs. Pole,' he said, 'set me to work to

find out whether her husband was at all in
communication with the lady. I'm one of
those sort of med, Bister Dedham, who want
to do a thing thoroughly when they do it at
all, and I wasn't going to have a lady watched
unless I knew her myself. I went down and
had a look at her. I went down two or three
times and had a look at her. Charming yug
lady, ain't she '^. I think, you know, that
Lord Worborough displayed uncommon good
taste.'

I told him that I did not wish to listen to
his opinion upon that question.

That's just as you like,' he answered,
'but I've got the opinion all the same. I
went down to see her, because I found out
that the fools had followed you instead of
going after Pole. But look here ! What's
the move ? What's she want waiting on
Lady Worborough ? I suppose she wants
to get a motion of how long she'll last.'

Perhaps if I had been in less heat of
temper than I was, I should not have answered

him at all ; but being angry already,
and freshly angered by his coarseness, I told
him that Miss Delamere had nursed Lady
Worborough simply and purely because she
was a saint by nature.

I ain't so green as that,' said Mr. Goldsmith.
' No, Bister Dedham, that cock won't
fight ; not with me, anyhow.'

It is not of much use to assault a man for
being himself, but Goldsmith tempted me
sorely. I moved away from him and walked
up and down alone, aware that the servants
were discussing the curious incidents of a
quarter of an hour ago, and that they were
consumed by curiosity. In a little while one
of them emerged from the hall and came
directly toward me. He was charged with
a message from Miss Delamere, who desired
at once to see me. I found her in a room
neighbouring Lady Worborough's. The
doctor was with her, and was standing over
her in an attitude expressive of embarrassed
sympathy.

You must take me away at once,' she
said agitatedly. ' I cannot stay here after
what has happened.'

I wonder that you submitted to such an
indignity,' said the doctor. ' Without your
express charge I would not have stood by to
witness it. I have been thinking for a day
or two past that Lady \\'orborough is not
entirely responsible for her actions, and the
last ten minutes has confirmed me.'

I asked if her ladyship gave any sign of
being convinced of the falsehood of her supposition,
and he answered, ' None.'

*eve left her in a towering rage,' he said.
She will do herself a mischief.'

It was obvious that the first and only thing
was to move Mary with all possible expedition
from the house. She herself had already
given instructions for the packing of her
baggage, and I left her for a moment only
to arrange about my own, and to order a
vehicle for the little hotel in the village, near
the station. When I returned she had almost

VOL. Ill p

altogether recovered her self-possession, and
we waited quietly until we were informed
that our joint orders had been fulfilled. Then
we drove away. I thought it wisest to make
no allusion to what had happened, and Mary
herself spoke of it but once.

I am very sorry for her,' she said then.
It must be very horrible to live with such
thoughts about one's fellow - creatures. I
should never have chosen to nurse her, but
it was not left to me to make the choice.'

The carriage set us down with our belongings
at the little hotel, and we were shown
into a comfortless, fireless room there. We
had four hours to wait for the train, and
when, in obedience to our instructions, a fire
was lighted, the chimney smoked so badly
that we had to throw open door and windows,
and to sit, as it were, in the open air. Altogether
it was a cheerless waiting. The hotel
was very small, but it was at least four times
bigger than there had been any reasonable
ground for making it, and it was no more

homely than a desert. When the solitary
waiter of the establishment, who looked as
bored as Robinson Crusoe must have felt,
walked about the unclothed corridor, he made
such echoes there in the uninhabited and, I
suppose, unfurnished solitudes about him, that
I felt as if we were in some house of huge
proportions, some Castle of Otranto, with a
lonely giant footstep wandering up and down
in it. The waiter was shy of strangers, and
so unaccustomed to them that he was embarrassed
by our arrival. There was absolutely
nothing to read in the place, and neither of
us was in the mood for conversation. So we
waited dismally enough, and anything, however
slight, that happened in the road on
which our windows looked became an object
of contemplation, and took an exaggerated
interest. It was not in the least surprising,
therefore, that we should both have caught
early the sound of a horse's hoofs, going
apparently at a headlong gallop. The noise
travelled with the wind, and came nearer with

great rapidity. I stationed myself at the
window, and to my considerable astonishment
the doctor, followed closely by a groom, appeared
in sight. The two checked their
horses immediately below me, and I ran
downstairs to meet them.

I hardly have the cheek,' said the young
doctor, speaking rather pantingly, * to tell you
what I have come for.' He had ridden like
an unaccustomed horseman, and was blown
by his exertions. ' One of the carriages is
coming after us, and Lady Worborough
wants Sister Constance to return. She
doesn't merely want her to do it, but she's
actually wild about it. You know enough
about her to know what she's like, when she
wants anything.'

'She has utterly thrown over that mad
suspicion, then ? ' I asked.

Completely, for the moment,' the doctor
answered. ' She declares that Sister Constance
is an angel, and that she herself is a
fiend. She says that she never believed it

at all for an instant, but that she was tempted
to say it simply because Sister Constance
was so good and beautiful that she hated her
for it and was jealous of her. That's a
problem,' the young doctor added, ' for some
men's reading, but it certainly isn't for mine.'

I could do no less than take these strange
and unexpected tidings to Mary. The doctor
mounted with me, but left me to tell the tale.

I feel impertinent,' he said, when I had
told it, ' in coming here at all. I should feel
intolerably impertinent if I were to say a word
to influence you, but all the same '

He paused there, and made a little apologetic
gesture as he checked himself.

'You think,' Mary asked him, ' that it will
be better for me to go ? '

It will certainly be better for her,' the
doctor answered. * Of course you know that
she makes a very violent display of any
emotion. But she seemed quite dangerously
agitated when I left her just now. If you
could possibly persuade yourself '

He paused once more, and made again
that little gesture of apology with both
hands.

I will go,' Mary answered, * if I can be of
service.*

You have always had an influence over
her from the first,' the doctor answered.
• Pray don't think me impudent ; I can't help
saying how good you are.'

His eyes sparkled and his cheek flushed.
He was obviously very much in earnest, and
if he could have dared would have said more.
He had not witnessed her sweet and noble
patience all these weeks for nothing, and I
had more than once suspected him of setting
a higher value upon her than was quite consistent
with his happiness. He never spoke
a word, as far as I know, to indicate as much,
but he had a worshipful way of following her
about with his eyes which looked significant
to me. Mary was a little embarrassed by his
vivacity, but the sound of carriage-wheels
came as a distraction, and we all three went

to the window. The young medico blushed
at her silence and looked a trifle guilty, as if
he felt that it reproved him.

We drove back to Worborough Court
without delay, leaving instructions for our
luggage to be sent on afterwards, and the
doctor and the groom tore on ahead to carry
the news of our return.

Come with me to her ladyship's room
when we arrive,' said Mary, as wee were
driven along. ' I am afraid of a scene, and
your presence may help to keep her quiet.'

The servants who were present at our
arrival received us with an alacrity which
seemed to indicate to my mind that they
knew something of the story. I supposed
then, and actually learned afterwards, that
Goldsmith had been talking. Mary had
spent but a day within the house, but her
sweet face and gentle ways had begun to tell
even in that short time, as they did everywhere
and always.

It is not an easy thing to analyse and

proportion one's affections. I have been
fortunate enough, on my way to middle age,
to have known and cared for a round half-dozen
of lovable people, which I take to bea
rather unusual allowance for one man.
One's affections differ, of course, In kind,
although they may be almost equal In Intensity.
My wife Is absolutely aware of my
opinion and sentiment, and shares It with me
thoroughly and without a sign of jealousy —
a rare and pleasing characteristic in a woman.
So far as my experience carried me, I
believed Mary Delamere to have been the
best woman in the world. She never had
need to search for affection, but found It offering
itself everywhere spontaneously. I took
at this period especially — a tender pride in
her, such as I suppose a brother feels fora
sister. The pleased willingness of the
servants was, I believe, more agreeable tome
than to her. It rejoiced me to know
that people loved her ; and when any phlegmatic
creature, as sometimes happened,

appeared insensible to her charm and goodness,
I was angered. In plain fact — Love
me and love my Mary Delamere was a prime
article in my creed, which I could hardly
have sacrificed to please anybody.

The housekeeper awaited our arrival
among others, and came forth with something
of a kindly bustle, saying that her ladyship
was especially anxious to see Sister
Constance at once. We found the invalid
lying where we had left her, and her face
showed evident signs of recent tears. Her
eyes were red and swollen, and her magnificent
black hair all wildly disarranged. At
the moment of our entrance she stretched
out her arms imploringly towards Mary, with
a strange moaning noise which I thought
eloquent at once of joy and of repentance.
Mary took the outstretched hands in her own
and stooped a little over her, but the poor
thing dragged her hysterically to her knees,
and threw both arms about her, kissing her
and crying over her in an almost frantic

way. This went on for a minute or two,
and at first Mary made a gentle effort to disengage
herself Finding It useless, she submitted
to these wild caresses, and, putting
her own arms about the patient, drew her to
her breast. At this Lady Worborough cried
at first more violently than ever ; but In a
while the gentle embrace soothed her, and she
lay there, heaping all manner of apology and
protestation upon her recovered companion.

You are an angel,' she said over and over
again. ' An angel ! an angel ! an angel !
How could you come back to me "^ If anybody
had treated me In such a way, I should
have killed her. I should have hated her
for ever, and ever, and ever. Oh, my wicked
heart ! my wicked heart ! What makes me
hate people so ? I have always hated people.
I have always hated myself for doing it.
Why does God make us to be so unhappy?'

She grew quieter by degrees, and Mary
had a way with her which nobody else seemed
to know the secret of

I shall never forget It,' said the unhappy
woman. ' I shall never forgive myself I
shall carry the memory of It to my grave. I
knew when I said It, It was a wicked He. I
had to say It. I have no power over my
tongue when I am angry.'

I was slipping silently from the room, seeing
that there was not the slightest necessity
for my presence there, and thinking that she
might be calmer in my absence, when she
called me by name, and begged me not to
go away. I was going, she said, because
I hated her. Everybody hated her, except
the one creature In the world who had most
reason.

'And you, don't hate me, dear?' she said,
addressing Mary. ' I know you don't, although
you have a right to.'

I besought her not to think that I bore
her any hatred, and Indeed, making all possible
allowances for her explosive and capricious
nature, her penitence and her affection
for the woman she had wronged were so

sincere that she touched me nearly. That
slow-burning, passionate heart of hers had
not been subdued to penitence and apology
without an awful inward struggle, and I knew
it. She held out her hand to me very feebly,
and I took it in my own.

'You don't hate me?' she asked. 'You
love my husband, and you don't wish me
dead ? '

I could only answer that I was glad to
know she cared, that I was extremely sorry
for her, and that I thanked her with all my
heart for what she had just said to Miss
Delamere.

But you hate me,' she insisted. ' You
hate me. You must hate me.'

My poor dear Lady Worborough,' I answered,
' why should anybody hate you
now ?'

'Ah!' she answered, with a great sigh,
I suppose you can all afford to forgive me.
I shan't trouble you long, I know. I've lied
about that as well. I won't see Walter, mind

you. I'm not going to make things up with
him. I'm not so weak as that yet, and never
shall be. It was all his own fault. If he
had beaten me as I deserved when I first
broke out, we might have been happy
always.'

There was no reply possible to this
astonishing statement, though it might have
been true enough to an exceptional sort of
feminine human nature.

You will over-excite yourself again,' Mary
said gently, ' if you talk too much. Let us
stay here together quite quietly, and say
nothing. It will be better to go away, John,
because Lady Worborough is really in need
of quiet.'

My name is Adelaide,' said her ladyship,
with a touch of her habitual wilfulness and
irony in the tone of her voice. Then, with
a sudden change, ' Call me by it. Please
do call me by it. Pott hate me, Mr. Denham,
all the same. You wish me dead.'

Go away, John,' said Mary decisively.

I am sending him away,' she added, ' because
you must not excite yourself — Adelaide.'


Her ladyship gave a little gasping sob
In answer to the name, a suppressed cry of
pleasure and of affection. The daylight was
fading by this time, and the fire was already
beginning to cast a reddish tinge upon objects
prominent In the room, making the shadows
deeper by contrast. A great expanse of
quiet country lay visible beyond the pale
oblong of the single window of the room,
and the red glow of the fire made the landscape
dim and ghostly. I stole out of the
room on tiptoe, and as I turned to draw the
door behind me, I saw the two clinging to
each other.

Pole's lawyer was beginning to be impatient,
and I had not left Mary and Lady Marlborough
more than ten minutes at the outside
when one of the servants came to me
with a message from him. He was afraid of
missing the up train, and was angered at the
unnecessary delay. I told him as much as I
cared to tell of what had happened, and of the
momentary condition of affairs, and he consented
to wait another twenty minutes before
sending in a message. This, I thought,
would give her ladyship time to collect herself,
and in her softened humour it was quite
possible that she might be willing to give less
trouble than usual. It was plain enough that
she had already kept the lawyers waiting

simply to assure them and herself of her own
importance. Goldsmith had no other affairs
likely to be as profitable as this, but the other
man was differently situated, and had reasons
for desiring to get away quickly.

At the end of the twenty minutes a servant
was despatched with a respectfully worded
message. Mary herself returned with the
answer. Lady Worborough, after the excitement
of the day, had grown alarmingly faint
and weak, and had just fallen asleep. She
did not think it advisable to awake her. It
was certain that most healthy people would
have found the wild excitement into which
she had been plunged more than a little
trying, and to an invalid as she was the day
was certain to have been really dangerous.
The lawyer humid and haled, but finally
resigned himself, and sat down to write a
lengthy letter of instruction to his staff
Mary went back quietly to her patient, and
the hours went by in great dulness. I myself
should have returned to town by the late

train, and was indeed prepared to do so, but
for an encounter with the doctor, who came
with a face of great gravity to consult me.

I have just been to see her ladyship,' he
said. ' She had slept for an hour when she
awoke, and frightened Sister Constance by
her extreme languor and feebleness. I don't
like the look of things at all, and I can't
accept the responsibility of the case alone. I
shall send a telegram to Dr. Mason detailing
the symptoms and leaving it to him to comedown
If he thinks them sufficiently grave,
and I shall wire to Exeter.' He mentioned
the name of a well-known physician there,
and added, ' He is almost as good as anybody,
and he can get down here by the local
train by midnight'

You think things really serious enough
for this ?' I asked him.

I think things very serious indeed,' he
answered. ' We have had two or three hours
of almost uninterrupted raving, and she Is
not in a state to stand it.'

VOL. Ill Q

I decided at least to await the arrival of
the physician from Exeter, and by the messenger
who carried the doctor's telegram I
sent a despatch to Clara, apprising her of my
resolve and the reasons which inspired it.

The doctor, the two men of law, and I
dined together, and made a grave party.
Goldsmith had heard the news and showed
more feeling than I had expected.

I'll tell you what it is, gentlemen,' said
Goldsmith, looking from one to the other of
us. ' This is neither more nor less that a
judgment. That's what it is. A judgment.
You may think it's only a coincidence, but
that ain't my way of looking at it.' The
doctor asked him what he meant. 'You
don't know the story ? ' said Goldsmith.
Well, it ain't lady business of mine to tell
it to you. Bister Dedham knows the story,
and he understands what I'm talking about.'

I understood more than that. I comprehended
perfectly Mr. Goldsmith's unwillingness
to make anything but a veiled allusion

to that history In the presence of a respectable
member of his own profession. Pole's
lawyer would certainly have refused to sit
at the same table with him had he been
aware of the facts of that strange episode.
I was not proud of Mr. Goldsmith's society
myself, but I could not very well evade it at
the time. I occupied myself for a while by
thinking what that eminently respectable
practitioner would say and do if I should
unveil Goldsmith's secret to him then and
there. When, after dinner, Goldsmith buttonholed
me apart and started anew his theory
that Lady Worborough's disaster was a judgment,
I had been thinking so warmly of his
scoundrelly participation in her terrible plot
that I felt constrained to ask him to address
me as rarely as possible.

It's pretty bitter on a cove,' said Goldsmith
; ' you'd have done it yourself if you'd
had that woman standing over you.'

He went away, however, and even seemed
a little depressed by my disapproval.

The doctor spent most of his time in her
ladyship's apartments. She had been got to
bed, and was now lying there in a state of
marked prostration. I saw him only once
before midnight, and then his looks were so
sombre and his words so few that I was certain
he thought the aspect of the case to be
growing graver. Mary, during these hours,
I did not see at all, for she remained constantly
in attendance upon her patient. It
was half an hour after midnight when the
physician from Exeter arrived. I think he
was the most reserved and guarded person I
had ever met. He refused to commit himself
to any opinion, hopeful or despairing.
He did not even say that her ladyship's position
was critical, but simply decided to wait
and watch. On this unsatisfactory no-verdict
I went to bed, but I found myself unable to
sleep, and after tossing to and fro for a couple
of hours I got up again and partly dressed
myself. The materials for a fire lay ready
in the grate. I set a light to them, and

wrapping myself snugly in a dressing-gown,
sat staring at the blaze, and allowed my
thoughts to wander where they would. They
never wandered far from Lady Worborough,
and those who were most intimately about
her. I thought a good deal of that striking
coincidence which Goldsmith regarded as
evidence of a judgment. The woman whose
body had been passed off as her own, and
whom she had pretended to identify as herself,
had been injured in the same manner,
and had been carried to the same hospital.
But I am not a believer in miraculous interpositions
of that kind.

I had brought no books with me, and time
crawled so slowly, and my own thoughts
grew so dreary, that at last I decided to steal
into the library, which was at the far end of
the corridor in which my bedroom was
situated. Lady Worborough 's apartments
were about midway. I lit a candle, and
looking out, saw the doctor in the act of
leaving his patient's room. The light I

carried attracted his attention, and he moved
towards me. We met half-way, and he
looked graver and more anxious than ever.

'The pulse is feebler,' he said; * the
temperature is lower. I don't like things at
all.'

What does your colleague say ? ' I asked.

He is reserved, but he doesn't look confident.
I am inclined to think he will wire
for Mason.'

I told him of my inability to sleep, and
asked him to let me know if the change became
more marked. He promised this, and
I went on to the library. Having secured a
book or two there, I returned to my chamber
and sat down to read, with such excellent
effect that when I had gone steadily through
a dozen pages, I had not the remotest idea
of the meaning of a single phrase. I knew
that I had been reading diligently, but my
mind was busy with other things, and refused
to take cognisance of the message the eyes
brought it. Having tried again, and having,

by dint of resolution, fastened my mind to
the first paragraph, I found myself at the end
of the third page, in the same position as
before. So I gave up the effort, and my
mind went wandering again in the mazes of
fantastic waking dreams. I came out of
them once to replenish the fire, and again
when my candles flickered in the sockets
and went out. The room I sat in was cosy
and homelike enough, and the fire gave a
light which would have been clear enough to
read by if I had been so minded. But I felt
eerie and alone, and the sense of the likelihood
of approaching death laid a chill upon
my heart. The shadow feared of mien seemed
in the house already, and touched me where
I sat.

Suddenly I heard a cautious footstep in
the corridor, and a light tap upon my door.
It was the doctor.

There is no doubt now,' he whispered.
She is sinking.'

Is she conscious?' I asked.

She Is conscious,' he answered, ' but she
is suffering from what we call aphasia. She
has tried several times to speak, but she
cannot use the words she wants. Her
phrases are unintelligible.'

I told him that Lord Worborough ought,
with as little delay as possible, to be informed
of her condition. The local physician would
know the country, and could tell us how best
to despatch a telegram to town. The young
doctor went back to consult him on this
theme, and returned with the message that
a man was all night on duty at the railway
station, and would probably be able to
despatch a message. I had assuredly nothing
better to do, and I decided on going there
myself. I completed my toilet and set out.
One of the servants offered to provide me
with a lantern, and I went round to the
stables with him to secure it. The night
was pitch dark, and so absolutely without a
sound that more than once between the house
and the lodge I felt impelled to pause and

listen. The silence hummed in my ears, and
I was glad to break it by the noise of my
own footsteps. The gates were closed, and
I had to awake the lodge-keeper, who came
down in a state of great alarm. When I
had told him my errand he was eager to
take it upon himself, but I knew the road
as well as he, and declined his services. It
was better to be walking on even in that
monotonous unchanging little circle of light
with the dense black of the night about me,
than to be doing nothing, and sitting in the
house with that grim presence growing
tangible.

The man at the railway station had nothing
to do but to signal the coming and
going of luggage trains, and to adjust a point
or two. He had his telegraphic signal, of
course. In the box with him, but that was of
no avail. The instrument used for the transmission
of messages was locked up in the
station. So far as the man knew, the stationmaster
was the only person who knew how

to work it. There was nothing for it therefore
but to awaken that functionary, and to
trust his respect for the great house to
secure his good will and assistance. I got
his address from the pointsman and went
out in search of him. I lost my way fora
while, and went stumbling about the
village without finding a creature of whom
I could inquire, until at last I lighted upon
a man with a cart, who gave me the necessary
information.

When I had found the station-master he
was extremely civil and obliging, and eager
to be of service. We went down to the
station together, and he signalled for a longtime
without securing an answer. At last,
when we were almost on the point of despair,
the gong set up a great clanging, and we
knew that we had secured communication.
Five minutes later I was back in the dark
again, walking towards the Court. The
station-master had informed me that if his
lordship got the telegram within an hour he

could secure a train as far as Bristol, could
there take up another after an hour and a
half's waiting, and could so reach the village
three hours earlier than by the express. I
had tacked this information to my message,
and was certain that Pole would act upon it
if he received it in time. I felt very strongly
that if it were possible he ought to see his
wife before she took leave of the world.
Death clears all scores, and on his side there
had, all things considered, been but little
rancour. What there might be, I knew him
well enough to know, would be buried now
for ever.

I was more than two hours away, and it
was still pitch dark when I returned. There
was no marked further change in Lady
Worborough's condition, but her attendants
thought her just a little feebler, and had no
hope at all that she would rally. Mary, so
the young doctor told me, was sitting at her
bedside, and for hours past the dying woman
had been holding her by the hand.

That's a curious little bit of heroism and
endurance, in its way,' he said. ' Did you
ever try to sit for hours in one position ?
It's a great task. At times, it's something
of a torture. It's one of those things that
women will do. She may have to put up
with hours more of it.'

The night crawled on wearily, with its
silent stealthy comings and goings, its brief
whispered colloquies, its monotonous questions
and replies.

'Anything as yet ?'

Nothing.'

Sometimes the mere lifting of the eyebrows
gave the question, and a grave negative
sign of the head the answer. It seemed
as if the dawn would never break, but after
interminable waiting the windows began to
show a ghastly gray, and lightened slowly,
until at last the world was awake again.
The dull, windless dawn was in keeping
with the thoughts which filled me. The sky
and the landscape that brooded under it

looked alike cold and desolate, and there
was a gloom upon the day. There is a mysterious
tie between men and nature at such
times, which makes her seem to deride or
sympathise with our moods as a sentient
thing might. All the while poor Lady Marlborough
lay slowly dying, and the woman she
had plotted to shame and agonise sat by her
like some pitying angel, nursing her hand, and
soothing her last moments by forgiveness.

Somewhere between eis^ht and nine o'clock
a telegram came from Pole announcing that
he had started by the train indicated in my
message, and was bringing Dr. season with
him. I communicated this to the doctors,
and asked if there would be time, in their
judgment, for him to reach us before the end
came. They thought so, but had no certainty
in their opinion.

The elderly lawyer was either an early
riser by habit, or was out at an unusual hour
that morning. I told him the news, and he
received it with a grave tranquillity.

It is better so,' he said

An hour or two later the housekeeper informed
me that Goldsmith had shed tears
on learning that the end was now regarded
as inevitable. He did not appear at breakfast,
and I met him in the shrubbery, red-eyed
and miserable. He came to me with
no attempt to conceal his emotion, and
without an atom of resentment, or even of
memory, for our interview of last night. He
was not sensitive to the opinion of others,
and, except by actual violence, it did not
seem easy to incense him.

I was very fond of her,' he said brokenly.
She was hard to get along with, and she had
her faults, like the rest of us. But she was
kind to me, very kind once, when I wanted
it badly.'

And so even she had her mourner, and
had enlisted the affection of one heart at
least, and kept it, though she might have
won and kept others better worth the
having.

I lingered as long as I dared before going
down to meet Pole at the station, in order
that I might be able to carry to him the
latest intelligence. Outside the railway-station
I found quite a crowd of people. I
suspect that the station-master had divulged
the contents of Pole's telegram, which was
not a very serious offence in the circumstances.
The people were all quiet and
expectant, and parted on either side to make
a lane for the carriage. One or two of the
villagers, whom I had known on earlier
visits, came forward and made inquiries.
By and by came the signal for the train, then
the train itself. Then Pole, followed by
Mason.

What is the news ?' he asked me.

'I think,' I answered, 'that you will be
in time to see her.'

Has she expressed a wish to see me ? '
he demanded.

I had to answer in the negative, but I
could tell him that she was strangely softened,

and that there was some hope of a reconciliation
even at this late hour. We entered the
carriage and drove away amid the silent
salutations of the village road, and I told
the story of Lady Worborough's outbreak.
There was no need for silence in Mason's
presence, for he knew the whole history
already, and I had made Pole aware of his
knowledge of it. The narrative shocked
one of my listeners painfully, though I slid
past the indignity of the search without a
word, and did my best to emphasise the
completeness of the retractation and apology.

'Ah, well!' said Mason, with an aspect
of relief, ' I am glad that the thing was not
of my doing. I allowed Lady Worborough
to come down here, and I was afraid that I
might have acted like a fool. I understand
it now, and it takes a great weight from my
mind.'

I knew so well what happened afterwards
from Pole himself and from Mary's account
of it to Clara, that I can tell the story of the

scene almost as if I had witnessed it. Mason
told me something of it too, though he was
very brusque and brief, not caring, I think,
to trust himself to too prolonged a narrative.
The dying woman was told of her husband's
presence in the house, and was asked if she
would see him. At first she made no sign at
all, but lay looking straight before her. mary
said that the hand she held trembled piteously
at the question. It was repeated to her
with much gentleness, and turning her eyes
round upon the doctor she signalled 'Yes.'
The gesture of the head was faint, but its
meaning was obvious. Pole was shown into
the room, and his wife looked towards him
with what was construed into a glance of
appeal and supplication. She was partly
propped up with pillows, and her left hand
lay upon the coverlet. Mary still held the
other.

Lady Worborough looked from Pole's face
to her own disengaged hand once or twice,
and made a feeble motion of the hand itself.

VOL. Ill R

Pole read this sign and took it in both his
own. Mary rose and tried gently to disengage
herself from the grasp which held her,
but it tightened so decisively, and with a
force which was so considerably greater than
she could have expected, that she resumed
her place.

The dying woman tried to speak, and did
utter one or two words indistinctly, but they
had no meaning to her hearers. She lay with
closed eyes for a while after this failure, and
both her husband and Mary felt a change in
her hands, a tenseness which at first they
thought indicated some spasm of great pain,
though they knew only a second or two later
that she was but making one final effort of
that indomitable will. She quivered in her
passionate desire to find the word. She found
it and she spoke it, the worthiest she ever
spoke, and the last.

Forgive.'

Pole told her that he forgave her everything,
fully and freely, as he hoped that his

own misdeeds might be forgiven. He begged
her that if he had wronged her in any way.
she would pardon him as truly. The effort
it had cost her to find the word had almost
exhausted her, and they feared that every
breath she drew would be her last. But she
heard and understood, and for a moment a
smile flickered faintly upon her face. Then
a most strange and pathetic thing happened.
The feeble hands drew the hands they held
nearer to each other across the coverlet, and
when they touched released them, and lay
lax in death above them.

So I may say of her truly that nothing in
her life became her like the leaving of it.

A ROYAL master of fiction laid it down as
an axiom that when everybody can tell how
a story will end, the story is ended. Here,
for the rounding of this history, there remain
but two or three things to tell. Mary and I
returned to town together that same day, and
Clara nursed her for a day or two with great
assiduity, for now that the strain was over
she proved quite overwrought. She was
soon herself again, however, and we fell into
our own ways of life at home, with some few
differences. Pole had never once crossed
my threshold since my marriage, and his
reason for absence had been understood all
along. He came for the first time about six
weeks after Lady Worborough's funeral. He

was serious at first, but he had always been
a man to whom affectation of any sort was
intolerable and hateful, and when in the
course of our talk we happened to strike a
comic fancy, he had one of his old bright and
charming smiles in readiness for it. His
troubles had aged him, and, young as he
was, there was a touch of gray about his hair.
The attitude of his mind had grown habitually
serious, but he was not at all the man to
cling to a departing shadow.

'I don't know,' he said, 'whether I have
acted properly in coming here so soon. I
have been guided by you so often that, if
you will allow me, I will take your advice
once more. Mary is still staying with you .'^ '

'Still,' I answered, 'and will stay, until
the only person who has a right to take her
away shall come to do it. I have been looking
for you for days past.'

That sounds,' he said, ' like approval.'

It ought to sound,' I answered him,
like complete approval. The fact is that,

if you liked to think so, your position for a
time might be embarrassing and delicate. If
you do not choose to trouble yourself at all
about it, it may grow natural in a day.'

Clara, who was of course aware of his
presence in the house, came in at this juncture
to welcome him. She stayed but for a
moment or two, and on retiring —

Tea will be ready in five minutes. You
will come up and join us, John, and bring
Lord Worborough with you.'

This indicated clearly enough another
opinion on our side, and we followed Clara
upstairs. Pole glanced about the room, but
Mary was not there. He looked disappointed,
and even a little nervous, but almost immediately
she entered. They shook hands and
we all sat down together, Clara talking at
first with a rather forced vivacity. She soon
conquered this, however, and the ice once
being broken, we got on without further
trouble. When we had taken tea, Clara
moved into the adjoining room and sat down

to the piano. I also sauntered through the
folding-doors and stood to listen to her playing.
It was by no means as firm as usual,
and I was not honor in discovering that she
was crying softly to herself But I knew
that her tears were ver' far from behoof unhappy,
and feigned to take no notice. In
about an hour Pole said his good-byes and
went away. He came again, and continued
to come, not half as often as I should have
been glad to see him, or I suppose a twentieth
part as often as he would really have
cared to call.

I remember that whilst these visits were
going on, and whilst indeed they were comparatively
new, Clara and ]diary and I dined
together with that genial old Dr. Fish, of
whom I have once or twice found it necessary"
to make mention in the course of my
story. I met at his table the lady of the
poor dear Hottentots. It appeared that they
had changed their allegiance, and the poor
dear Cypriotes were now in charge, after a

fashion as mysterious as that of their predecessors.
She hinted to me after dinner that
Lord Worborough's visits were just a little
now didn't I think so ? Were they quite ?
Didn't I fancy, now, that they were rather
premature ? Did I think that they were
absolutely and entirely ? — well, she might say
delicate ?

Dear madam,' I responded, ' Lord Marlborough
and Miss Delamere suffered horribly
as the result of a wicked and shameful plot.
They behaved throughout like persons of
delicacy and honour, and they are acting now
like people of common-sense. It was I who
took upon myself to advise Lord Worborough,
and his visits to my house are at my invitation.'


Whether the general Mrs. Grundy had
more to say upon the question I never
learned, and certainly never took the trouble
to inquire. This particular lady was more
abashed than I had meant her to be. She
abdicated from her proprietorship of the poor

dear Cypriotes for the rest of that evening,
and went away early, with effusive ' my dealings
' and handshakings for Miss Delamere.

When wee had quite settled down to the
new order of things, and when that sorrowful
past had at last sunk from the surface of
our lives, we made a very happy quartette.
From my dignified height of married man, I
looked upon the two dearest friends I had
in the world with a profound satisfaction
and thanksgiving. Clara, from her extra
elevation of dignity as married woman, surveyed
them with a pleasure as genuine as
my own. The ghastly dead past must have
floated up sometimes in their remembrance,
as it did in ours, but the great equal stream
of time went on and drowned it deeper, hour
by hour and day by day.

The haunted man, in his bargain with the
ghost, lost all his memories of sorrow with
the natural result we know of. It would be
as sad to lose our memories of trouble as to
lose our memories of joy. But we may all

thank God that joy grows brighter in the
retrospection, and that sorrow fades.

It was about this time that I received an
unexpected visit in my official room. Mr.
Delamere turned up there, as distinguished,
as well bred, as condescending, and urbane,
as ever.

My dear Denham,' he said, ' I have called
upon you with regard to an affair of the
utmost delicacy. I have never been able to
refrain from a certain feeling of contempt
for those people who make a lavish display
of the emotions. I have, in fact, now
in preparation for the press, a lecture delivered
some years ago on the Control of the
Emotions as a Sign of the Perfected Man.'

I thought within myself that the control
of the emotions was no doubt an admirable
thing, but that the aspect of power In that
direction might be less estimable where there
were no emotions to control. But I held my
tongue, and Mr. Delamere streamed on, calm,
urbane, forgiving.

I have never,' he pursued, ' closed my
eyes to the fact that your charming wife and
yourself have of late considerably influenced
the career, the character, and the resolutions
of my child. I do not inquire whether
her resolutions to divide her life from mine
were, or were not, arrived at as a result of
that undoubted influence. I even applaud
that fineness of sentiment, that high sense
of honour in my daughter, which led her
to sacrifice the instincts and the cherished
associations of a lifetime. I presume that
the instincts were inherited, and I cannot, and
I do not, blame Mary for acting upon a sentiment
which I have found only too considerably
active in my own career. She has an erroneous
conception of the circumstances of the
case. But I authorise you to inform her — I
should rather say, perhaps, that I beg you to
inform her, that I applaud her feeling, but
that I consider that she has by this time more
than sufficiently justified her own position.
I come to you because I cannot again endure

to be encountered with coldness by my
daughter. I appeal to you as a man of
honour to present my case as I have stated
it. It is possible,' he added, with a touch of
dignified pathos which would have imposed
upon me completely in the early days of my
acquaintance with him, ' it is possible that my
very whereabouts may be unknown to her.
You will find it indicated here.'

With this he produced a card, and laid it
delicately upon the table, like an artist and
a gentleman. He took up his hat like an
artist and a gentleman — he really had the
most perfect and finished manner I have ever
known — and rose to go. I promised that I
would do my best, and told him I was certain
that Mary would be the happier for the reconciliation.
He thanked me, and went away.

I took the message home that evening, and,
to be brief, Mary consented very willingly to
call upon him, and next morning paid him a
visit. As a result of this I wrote to him
saying that she would continue her residence

with Clara for some little time to come, and
asking him to visit her and us as often as he
pleased. I expressed my joy at the reconciliation,
and made myself a great deal more
agreeable on paper than I felt internally towards
him.

Sebastian had been upon our household
list almost from the beginning, and it was
like old times to hear him and Delamere,
when they met together, grating one at
another with all their original solemnity.
Sebastian had turned to architecture, and
had a theory that the reformation of the
world from the great doctrine of ugliness
was more easily to be effected in that direction
than any other.

The very streets of London strangle and
suffocate the wayfarer,' he would say. 'The
dull, eternal, unbroken straight line wearies
the soul with its infinite monotony of repetition.
The poisonous fallacy of utility has
been the death of beauty.'

I suspect that he wrote these things down

and committed them to memory, unless when
they came freshly from the paternal pump
spout and he re-poured them.

I speak of the fallacy of utility, and I
protest that I find no exaggeration in the
phrase. The first essential in a thing is that
it shall not be hideous. The second essential
in given cases is that it shall be useful. Because
you can pack more squares or oblongs
than circles or ovals into a given space we
sit in these soul-freezing rooms of ours,
among fiat walls and ceilings.'

Pole was there, and asked him if he
wouldn't keep the floors level, if only as a
concession. Not to speak it unkindly, Sebastian
had grown more tolerant of Pole's form
of humour since the latter had come in for a
great fortune and a peerage. I dare say that
was true of many people, and I am not disposed
to be severe on Jones. He smiled
allowing, and proceeded with the development
of his theory.

It is very heartbreaking,' he said at last.

but nobody appears to care much. I dined
last night with a contractor. One meets such
people now and then. He jeered at my
contention in a way which I felt to be quite
tasteless and almost personally injurious. He
positively told me that I need only exceed my
average allowance of wine at dinner, and " top
up" — that was the contractor's expression —
with a dose of Old Tom and hot water, in
order to see the lines of any street arranged
in as varied a pattern as I could desire. Of
course that closed the conversation. One
can't talk with such people. They veil themselves
in their own coarse contempt against
the light of thoughts beyond their understanding.'


But Sebastian was even more enjoyable
on one occasion when only Pole and I were
present. It appeared that Delamere and he
had clubbed together, and had resolved, for
the sake of society, to dine in common when
not otherwise engaged.

'And do you know,' said Jones, ' I begin

to suspect Delamere of being a trifle selfish
in an almost unbelievable direction. We
have dined together, I should suppose, since
this compact was entered upon, not fewer
than a score of times. Now it happens that
the man who caters for us at the Albany,
though otherwise excellent, is possessed of
but little resource or variety with respect to
dessert. He has always served up a mere
half-dozen of a kind of macaroon of which I
am — one confesses to this kind of trifle with
no shame — particularly fond. I appropriated
them, of course, with Delamere's express
consent, on the first evening. They became,
so to speak, my property, and I looked forward
to them naturally as the close of my
repast. Now, last night, and positively also
the night before, Delamere deliberately, and
with obvious intention, appropriated them all.'
Pole said that this was simply brutal, and
Sebastian thought the term too strong.
Really, he thought it unwarrantably strong.
Pole was sorry, but regretted that he could

not modify it, and Sebastian expressed his
regret at having told the story. He valued
Delamere, and had no wish to give his friends
a poor opinion of him. For his own part, he
was contented to describe the act as an unexpected
idiosyncrasy.

I delighted in all this, not merely because
it was so charming in itself, but because it
showed that Pole still had a laugh left in
him, and because he had had a more relishing
perception by nature of the fun than I had.

Nothing was said of the one event which
we all regarded as inevitable. Clara was full
of wonder as to when the news was coming.
It came out at length that Pole and ]diary
had decided between themselves to wait a
year, and that they had resolved upon a very
quiet wedding. To me, the time seemed to
pass swiftly, and I look back to it now, or
at least to all but the earliest months of it,
as the happiest of my life. There are few
men who can boast of nine months so free
from care, so tranquilly, uneventfully hopeful

VOL. Ill s

and content. To see the patient look of
settled resignation fade from Mary's face, and
to see the dawn of positive happiness in it,
was in itself a joy which any man might envy.
To see the same change in Pole, to watch
the quiet hearty humour of the man growing
more supple and more at home again within
him day by day, was another and an equal
pleasure. I thought Pole the best fellow
in the world. Almost everybody has that
opinion about somebody, but I am prepared
to this hour to back my man, and if anybody
should prove so fortunate as to win against
me I shall never know it, and the winner will
have a friend who is indeed worthy of his
best affection.

I am getting very near the end now, and
have little more to tell. But when I sat,
revolving this old history in my mind a year
ago, and determining to write it, I fixed upon
a title for the story, as if it had been a novel.
I decided to call it * The Weaker Vessel ' ;
and that, If ever it should see the light of

publicity, is the name it ought to bear. The
episode, the remembrance of which decided
me upon that title, has still to be told. The
title itself has passed into a sort of byword
between my wife and me, and we have grown
familiar with the name.

It was only a week before the wedding
when Clara the younger had been conducted,
on a chill but sunshiny day, upon a walk by
her nurse. This same Clara the younger
has filled but a little place in these pages,
though she was known to all hands aboard
the family craft as commanderess- in-chief.
We were all standing at the drawing-room
windows at home, chatting and looking out
on the fine bright weather — Clara, Mary,
Pole, myself, and Delamere. Clara, Delamere,
and myself were at one window, Pole
and Mary at the other. The little Clara was
suddenly discerned in the street, toddling
forward with outstretched hands and somewhat
uncertain footsteps, treating the ridges
of frozen mud as if they were half her own

height. She had evidently escaped for the
moment from her nurse, who was scudding
forward in a stooping posture, either to pick
her up or to sustain her footsteps, when a
wildly driven hansom came tearing round
the corner and dashed in between them.
The child was absolutely touched by the
wheel, and thrown forward. The nurse girl,
recoiling with a shriek, tripped and sat down
upon the roadway. By a happy wonder,
neither child nor nurse received a hurt worth
mentioning, but for the moment my heart
was in my mouth, and by the time that Pole
and I had torn downstairs together, got the
hall door open, and discovered the pair to be
undamaged, I was sick and faint.

I carried the little creature, who was not
at all alarmed by her tumble, into the ,
and there was Mary in an arm-chair
in a state of perfect collapse. She had fainted
clean away. There was a mighty hubbub fora
moment, but we all calmed down, and in
half an hour's time Mary herself, with a rather

white face and tremulous manner, apologised
for her weakness. She had imagined that
both the girl and the child had been run over.

Delamere was very gorgeous to behold
and listen to as he expatiated upon this
incident, and turning to Pole, with his courtly
and condescending grace, he said,

You must have pity on the weaker vessel.'

An hour later, when Mary had quite recovered,
and Pole and I were alone together,
he delivered his mind of the thoughts which
this utterance awoke in him.

Jack, you heard Delamere speak just now
about the weaker vessel.'

I remarked that I had noticed the phrase,
and that I had had some fancies about it.

It set me thinking,' said Pole. ' The
weaker vessel ! In all things worth while to
be strong in, much the stronger vessel, to
my mind. How dares that hollow sham to
condescend to a creature so infinitely his
superior ? Did she stoop to touch money
dishonourable borrowed ? And what did I

do? Is it any vanity to say to you, who
know her as well almost as I do, that she
loves me ? Is it vanity to suppose that she
felt the separation as bitterly as I did ? I
know she did, Jack. I know the shame of
being public talk in such a business made
that sensitive heart bleed many and many
a time. And whilst I was away in Paris,
gambling, and racketing, and hating my
kind, and eating the husks the swine do eat,
she was tending her sick and her poor, and
strengthening her soul with holy thought
and pious living. Jack, my lad, they're
better than we are. They're purer and
stronger, and more patient to endure.'

He was not talkative for a long time after
this outburst, but several times in the course
of the afternoon I heard him muttering to
himself, ' The Weaker Vessel ! ' in a tone of
wrathful incredulity.

In the old tales the hero and the heroine
always married and lived happily ever afterwards,
and this strange episode in my own

career shall end as so many other stories
have ended — to the sound of wedding bells.
Their happy riot has long since sunk into
silence ; but I know that so far peace and
honoured usefulness and deep content follow
their music. The wedding was a very quiet
affair indeed, as it was long since arranged it
should be. There were not more than half
a dozen people present at it as spectators.
Delamere gave away the bride, and Sebastian
was there in his character of friend of the
family. Sebastian, by the way, brought the
only strange lady present. He had so far
relented from his theory of beauty and utility
as to sacrifice himself at the shrine of a conspicuously
plain and outrageously collared
young woman who came from Oleoville, Pa.
She was related to the Dodges there, and, as
everybody knows, the Dodges are financially
big fish even among the biggest.

I was particularly pleased to get a visit
from Macllray on the very morning of the
wedding, as I was in the act of dressing for

the ceremony. I saw him in my dressing-room
for an instant and he was pleasantly
excited by the news I had to give him.

Ahem glad,' said Macllray, ' that the good
lad is going to be happy. I'll tell ye ! Ef I
may be permitted, I'll just get away to the
church, and have a look at the ceremony
from the gallery.'

He made his way thither, and when the
wedding was over and the handshakings
and congratulations were all over likewise,
and the wedded pair had driven away, I
found him waiting at the church door forme.
There was no wedding breakfast, for
Pole had too active a horror of the possibilities
of Delamere's eloquence on such an
occasion to endure more than the bare prospect
of it. I know this to have been the
working factor in his mind, and in all seriousness
I am not disposed to be surprised at his
decision.

I should have been glad to meet Macllray
at any time, for I had learned to have a

genuine regard for him. But with Pole and
Mary gone I felt lonely and a little dispirited,
and he came doubly welcome. We sat and
talked about the chase in Paris, and I told
him something of what had happened since.
Then the conversation languished for a time,
until his old unconscious watch-cry broke the
silence. It sounded to me, in an odd way,
as if there were a philosophy in it, as if it
even reconciled discrepancies and expressed
a sort of wisdom of generality in little.

Ay, ay, Denham,' said Macllray. * Ay,
ay, lad ! Ay, ay ! '

THE END

Printed by R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh

Aunt Rachel : A Rustic Sentimental Comedy. New and
Cheaper Edition. Globe 8vo. 2$.

The Times says: "This is a charming idyll of village life. . . . These sturdy inhabitants
of the Black Country, before it was very black, are altogether lifelike, and
withal infinitely humorous and pleasing."

The AtJietuvum sap's : "Aunt Rachel is an excellent piece of work, in some respects
the best he has done. . To do justice to the conversation would require more quotation
than space can be spared for, but it is delightfully humorous."

The Academy says : " The most artistic achievement we have yet had from his pen."

The Guardian says: "The story is told in Mr. Christie Murray's best manner; our
readers will scarcely need tc be informed how good that manner is."

NEW NOVELS.

By F. MARION CRAWFORD.
With the Immortals. By F. Marion Crawford, Author
of 'Mr. Isaacs,' 'Doctor Claudius,' 'Paul Patois,' etc. Second and
Cheaper Edition. 2 vols. Globe 8vo. 12s.

The Spectator says : "To do justice to Mr. Crawford's remarkable book by extracts
would be impossible. . . . All we can do is to select one or two bright passages short
enough to transfer to our columns. . It is a book which, whatever judgments maybe
passed upon its form, cannot fail to please a reader who enjoys crisp, clear, vigorous
writing, and thoughts that are alike original and suggestive."

The Literary World sap's : " The experiment is a daring one, and, on the whole, is a
distinct success. The book contains some of the finest passages Mr. Crawford has ever
written. Again and again he has reached a level, both in feeling and expression, which,
so far as we remember, he has never touched before."

The Glasgow Herald says: " IVith the Immortals is unquestionably the cleverest
and most thoughtful piece of literary work that Mr. Marion Craw-ford has yet produced.
. . Those who care for pure literature will prize the stores if story it can be called — as
one of the freshest, most cultured, and suggestive productions of recent j-ears. It is a
work of exceptionally fine literary quality."

The Globe says : " The result is agreeable as the method is clever. . . . The book
will appeal successfully to the educated reader. It contains many admirably written
passages."

The Morning Post sap's : " Mr. Crawford's book is a clever ^V?* d' esprit."

By WILLIAM Into.

The Mediation of Ralph Hardelot. By William Mixto,

Author of ' The Crack of Doom.' 3 vols. Crown 8vo. 3IJ". dd.

By J. H. Storehouse.
The Countess Eve. By J. H. Shorthouse, Author of ' John
Inglesant,' 'The Little Schoolmaster Mark,' etc. Crown 8vo.

[Immediately.

By CHARLOTTE M. Yonge.
Beechcroft at Rockstone. By Charlotte M. Yonge.

2 vols. Crown Svo. 12s. [Shortly.

By BRET HARTE.
Cressy. By Bred Harte. 2 vols. [In the press.

MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.

WESTWARD HO !
HEREWARD THE WAKE.
TWO YEARS AGO.

By Charles Kingsley.

I ALTON LOCKE.
Hepatic.
YEAST.

With Portrait.

By Charlotte M. Yonge.

With Illustrations by Kate Greenaway, Herbert GandYjAdbiaij^Stokes, J. P.
Atkinson, Marion Huxley, W ' '" , -, „ ^

THE HEIR OF Radcliffe.
Heartless.
HOPES AND PEARS.
DYNEVOR TERRACE.
THE DAISY CHAIN.
THE TRIAL.

THE PILLARS OF THE HOUSE. 2 Vols.
CLEVER WOMAN OF THE FAMILY.

J. Hennessy, and Jane E. Cook,

THE CHAPLET OF PEARLS.

LADY HESTER and THE Dangers

PAPERS.
MAGNUM BONUM.
LOVE AND LIFE.
UNKNOWN TO HISTORY.
STRAY PEARLS.
THE ARMOURER'S 'PRENTICES.
THE TWO SIDES OF THE SHIELD.
NUTTIE's FATHER.
SCENES AND CHARACTERS.
CHANTRY HOUSE.
A MODERN TELEMACHUS.

John Halifax, Gentleman.

THE YOUNG STEPMOTHER,

THE THREE BRIDES.

MY YOUNG Allies.

THE CAGED LION.

THE DOVE IN THE EAGLE'S NEST.

By the Author of

THE Gillies. Illustrated by J. M.

M 'Ralston.
THE HEAD OF THE FAMILY. Illustrated

by Walter Crane.
OLIVE, Illustrated by G, Bowers,

By Annie Weary.

CASTLE DALY, | OLDBURY. | A DOUBTING HEART

A YORK AND A LANCASTER ROSE,

Illustrated by

AGATHA'S HUSBAND,

Walter Crane.
MY MOTHER AND I. Illustrated.
MISS TOMMY, Illustrated by F, Noel

Paton.
KING ARTHUR : Not a Love Story,

THE EUROPEANS.

THE AMERICAN.

DAISY MILLER : AN INTERNATIONAL

EPISODE, etc.
RODERICK HUDSON.
THE MADONNA OF THE FUTURE, and

other Tales.

CLEMENCY Franklin.

By Henry James.

WASHINGTON SQUARE: THE Pension
BEAUREPAS: A BUNDLE OF
LETTERS.

THE PORTRAIT OF A LADY.

STORIES REVIVED. Two Vols. 6s. each.

THE PRINCESS CASAMASSIMA.

THE BOSTONIANS,

THE REVERBERATOR.

TOM BROWN'S SCHOOLDAYS. TOM BROWN AT OXFORD.

MISS BRETHERTON. By Mrs. Humphrey Ward.

MITCHELHURST PLACE. By Margaret Veley.

JILL. By E. A. Dillwyn.

THE Cerulean : A Vacation Idyll. By H. S. Cunningham.

NEyERA : A Tale of Ancient Rome. By J. W. Graham.

THE WOODLANDERS. By Thomas Hardy.

A BELEAGUERED CITY. By Mrs. Oliphant.

By J. Henry Shorthouse.

JOHN Inelegant. | SIR PERCIVAL.

A TEACHER OF THE VIOLIN.
THE LITTLE SCHOOLMASTER MARK. 4s, 6d.

Works by F, Marion Crawford.

In Crown Svo, .6s. each.
ZOROASTER. I A TALE OF A LONELY PARISH.

PAUL PATOFF, | MARZIO's CRUCIFIX,

In Crown Svo, 4s. 6d. each.
MR. ISAACS : A Tale of Modern India.

DR. CLAUDIUS : A True Story.

A ROMAN SINGER.



MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.
