W. E. NOEEIS,

Altho OP
MA.IOU AND JIINUK," "MY FRIEND JIM," "THE Rode," ETC.

IN TJIEEK VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

iSubltsljrrs in ©rtjiucirg to itfet IHajcstg tfje ©iifrn.

1S89.
AU riylilx reserved.)

i

^j

(5

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

Chapter Page

I. Baron Lammergeier's Crush . 1

II. Miss Shaft's Father . 26

III. An Unsuccessful Dinner . . 40

IV. Friendly Critics . . 60

V. Mrs. Wilton's Nerves are shaken . 83

At the Play . . 102

Norma has a Bad Time of it . 122

Viii. Old Nell . . . 140

IX. Lord Walter buys a Box . . 164

X. Lammergeier as an Orator . 183

XI. At Lord's . . . 202

XXL Madge makes Amends . . 222

XIII. Mrs. Lacy's Ball . . 242

XIV. Lord Walter goes to seek his Fortune 262

r^

p^^l XV. Lord Walter is answered . 282

^

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/missshafto01norri

CHAPTER I.

BARON LAMMERGEIER's CRUSH.

On a certain evening in the month of June,
Baron Lammergeier, M.P. and his wife
gave one of those great crushes for which
they were renowned. Anybody, of course,
can give a crush ; it is not a forti of
entertainment which, as a general rule,
demands any great trouble or expenditure.
But Baron Lammergeier, who was exceptional
in that he provided his guests with
a magnificent supper and spent as much
money upon flowers and music when he
gave an evening party as when he gave

VOL I. 1

a ball, was still more exceptional in regard
to the fact that he got people to go to his
parties, and was even pestered for invitations
to the same. Highly distinguished
personages these were, too, some of them.
A few, being so very distinguished that
they could afford to tell the truth and
please themselves, avowed that they came
for the sake of seeing the rooms, eating
the supper and hearing the music ; others,
less secure of their position in the social
scale, felt bound to give explanations and
excuses. " We dined with these people
last week," they would whisper to one
another, " so we thought we ought just to
look in for a few minutes, you know."

At all events, and whatever may have
been their motives, there they were in
crowds. Grosvenor Place was blocked
with carriages ; dukes, cabinet ministers,
foreign ambassadors, ecclesiastical dignitaries,
jostled one another upon the
broad staircase, at the top of which Mrs.
Lammergeier stood in all the glory of her

diamonds. Moreover, the jeunesse donee
was present in great force, which was no
slight social triumph; and whether the
1874 Griesler, which was known to flow
without stint under the roof of the hospitable
baron, had or had not anything todo
with the bringing of it about is a
matter of comparatively trifling importance.

Mrs. Lammergeier had been on duty for
about an hour and half when a tall
young man with fair hair, which curled
tightly all over his head, and a closely-trimmed
beard, mounted the stairs and
bowed to her. He did not seem quite
certain whether to offer her his hand or
not, but she held out hers, saying, " How
do you dos Lord Walter ? " and added,
after a moment's pause, " Miss Shaft, let
me introduce Lord Walter Sinclair. And
will you take him away, please ? He is
blocking up the gangway."

Lord Walter looked up and smiled.
Do we require an introduction, Miss
Shaft?" he asked. "I'm afraid it must

be quite ten years since we last met ; but
we used to be rather friends once upon a
time. In fact, I believe we even went sofar
as to break a sixpence together when
I was fourteen and you were nine."

Dear me ! " exclaimed the young lady
whom he addressed, extending her hand
to him frankly ; " and so you are Walter
Sinclair ! You used to be such a particularly
nice boy."

'' You also, if I may be permitted to say
so, were rather particularly nice," observed
Lord Walter gravely. "I hope we have
neither of us changed very much."

But of course they had both changed
a great deal in outward appearance, if in
nothing else. As he moved slowly towards
the great drawing-room (the saloon, Lam-merrier
preferred to call it), where the
Hungarian band was playing, he stole sidelong
glances at his companion and thought
to himself, with something of a sigh, how
inexorable Time is, and that even full life
and progress and development are but other

words for the death of past things. How-well
he remembered losing his heart to
Norma Shaft when he was a boy at Eton !
That was in the happy old days when his
mother was alive, and when they always
used to spend Christmas at Warbury Park.
Norma was a jolly, merry little girl who
used to try to follow the hounds on her
Shetland pony ; or, if a hard frost came,
he used to skate with her upon the lake
at Brampton Priory. She had the most
beautiful golden hair that ever was seen,
and such eyes ! Well, the eyes, to be sure,
were as blue as ever, and if their lashes
had lengthened and deepened in colour,
that was doubtless an improvement ; but
the hair had changed to brown, though
there were still some golden threads in it.
And what a tall woman she had become !
The truth is that Miss Shaft was justa
little bit too tall. Certainly she carried
herself well, and she was undeniably
beautiful and striking-looking, and if one
had met her for the first time one would

not have thought of finding fault with her
height or with anything else about her ;
but Lord Walter could not help being
rather annoyed with her for bearing so
very little resemblance to his child sweetheart.
However, this hostile attitude of
his became greatly modified before he had
been talking to her for five minutes. The
child Norma, it was true, was dead and
gone ; but then, for the matter of that, so
was the boy Walter ; and the man Walter
could not but acknowledge the charm of
Miss Shaft's gracious and kindly presence.

And what have you been doing with
yourself all these years?" she asked.
Somebody — I think it must have been
Miss Travers — told me that you were an
artist. Is that true ? "

Well, it is near enough," he answered.
I am a sculptor by trade — and a poor
sort of trade I have found it, so far."

But perhaps you haven't got very far
yet," Miss Shaft suggested. 'eat any
rate, you must be glad to have an occupation,

and it isn't as if you were, obliged to
work for your living."

I assure you I am," answered Lord
Walter. "At least, I shall find myself
very much pinched if I don't. Our hostis
a patron of art, I am told. Perhaps he
may purchase one of my works some fine
day, if I behave nicely to him. Not that
it is very easy to behave nicely to him."

He certainly is not particularly attractive,"
remarked Miss Shaft in a meditative
tone.

"He is the most offensive little beast
that I know," said Lord Walter tranquilly.

Then why do you come to his house ? "

Quite so ; there is no answer to rebukes
of that kind. All the same, I fancy that
if you were to put every man in this room
upon his oath, you wouldn't find as large
a proportion as five per cent, who would
dare to describe their host in any other
way. Theoretically, one has no business
to eat a man's salt and then say nasty
things about him ; but practically he gets

his quid pro quo. He doesn't ask us here
because he loves us, you know, and you
might repeat what I said just now to him
without preventing him from inviting me
to his next crush. I am of no great value ;
a younger son who is practically a pauper
doesn't count for much. But I imagine
that Lammergeier would cheerfully consent
to be kicked by a duke, and that he would
submit to anything short of decapitation at
the hands of a royal highness. As far as
we have gone, I think I may say that he
and I are about quits. I have had to
shake hands with him ; but, to set against
that, I have met you ; and there is the
possibility of his giving me an order when
my talents dawn upon him."

If Lord Walter had known a little more
of Miss Shaft, he would have been surprised
at her not taking up the cudgels on
Baron Lammergeier's behalf, for there was
nothing that she disliked more than to
hear any man spoken ill of behind his
back. On this occasion, however, she

remained silent for some seconds. She
and her companion had found a little recess
with an unoccupied sofa, and had seated
themselves there. Presently she resumed :
I hope you don't really mean that you
are a pauper. I can't see why you
should be."

Lord Walter laughed. "Oh, that was
a figure of speech," he answered. " My
father left me something. Not as much
as he used to allow me during his lifetime,
though. So I can't afford to be an idle
man."

But I always thought he was so very
rich. You did not quarrel with him, did
you ? I was half afraid when I saw you
here this evening that there might have
been something of the kind."

Why ? Oh, I see ; you thought I
ought not to be going into society so soon
after my father's death. Well, I don't
know ; people don't shut themselves up
nowadays ; and, after all, one's personal
grief isn't affected one way or the other by

seeing one's fellow-creatures. No, there
never was any quarrel between the dear
old man and me, only he wasn't as rich
as he was supposed to be. That is, he
hadn't a great deal of ready money, and
heavy claims were made upon him of late
years, and every stick and stone of his
property was entailed. He left me what
he could."

The subject was not pursued further.
It was notorious that the late Marquis of
Loddondale had found the present one a
very expensive person to maintain, and
that there had been little love lost between
the father and son. Miss Shaft may have
been cognizant of both circumstances, and
may have thought, as a great many other
people did, that it was a pity Lord Walter
had not come into existence a year or two
earlier. After a time she said, " I suppose
you are not likely to be much in our part'
of the world again now ? "

The young man shook his head. " I'm
afraid not ; though possibly I might run

down for a day or two sometimes, for I
should think Loddondale would spend a
part of the year at Warbury. My father,
you know, took a dislike to the place after
my mother died."

'^ I shall be glad if your brother decides
to inhabit Warbury again," said Miss
Shaft meditatively. " When properties
change hands, there is always a danger of
subscriptions to the schools and the cottage
hospital and so forth dropping off; but if
Lord Loddondale is upon the spot, he will
see for himself how much poverty there is
all round him ; and indeed we can ill afford
to lose our subscribers. As it is we have
great difficulty in keeping things going,
because everybody complains of having no
money. If I meet your brother, the first
thing I shall do will be to beg of him."

A sudden smile passed across Lord
Walter's face : the suggestion appeared to
tickle him. But he only answered a little
drily, " I doubt whether you will meet him;
Loddondale doesn't go out into society.

But," he added presently, " I hope 1 shall
meet you again before long. When do
you go home ? "

I wish I knew ! " the girl replied, sighing.
" Perhaps we may never go home
again. My father wants to let Brampton
for a term of years."

"To let Brampton! You don't mean
that ! Why, I thought Mr. Shaft was as
firmly rooted to the soil as one of his own
oaks."

"Well, oaks are sometimes uprooted,
you know. When farmers can't pay their
rents landlords must suffer. My father
says — and I am sure he is quite right —
that it is much better to change one's style
of living altogether than to attempt to goon
in the old way after one has lost nearly
the half of one's income."

This was so reasonable and sensible a
view to take of the situation that Lord
Walter could find nothing to urge against
it. He only said, " It seems a great pity ;
but I suppose there's no help for it. What

shall you do, then ? Do you think of
living in London ? "

Yes, I believe so," the girl answered.
'ewe have taken a house in Upper
Belgrave Street, and if a tenant is discovered
for Brampton, we shall set about
removing our household gods. Fortunately,
my father is very cheerful about it,
and rather likes the idea of a town life."

But what about yourself?" Lord Walter
inquired. " This will be a painful change
for you, won't it ? I have heard about
you from time to time through old Nell
Travers, though you don't appear to have
asked any questions about me, and old
Nell describes you as a sort of guardian
angel to the entire neighbourhood. It is
a law of nature that one should love those
whom one has benefited, so I suppose you
will be sorry to be parted from the poor of
Brampton."

Miss Shaft's face clouded over, and she
made no reply for some seconds. When
she did open her lips it was to remark,

There are plenty of poor in London
too."

Oh, then it isn't the individuals whom
you care for ; it's the fact of their poverty
that interests you."

Of course," answered the girl, after a
moment of reflection, " that is what makes
them interesting ; but I do care for the
individuals too."

Then," said Lord Walter, with much
presence of mind, " I may for the first time
congratulate myself upon being a pauper."

What rejoinder Miss Shaft would have
made to a speech which its author upon
subsequent reflection felt to have been
somewhat silly, must remain a matter of
conjecture ; for at this moment the interview
was broken in upon by a little faded,
middle-aged woman, clad in black velvet
and diamonds, who said plaintively, "Oh,
how do you do. Norma? I have been
looking everywhere for some friendly face ;
but I could discover nobody in this horrid
crowd, and I have been jostled and pushed

until all the breath has been knocked out
of my body. I wish I hadn't come ! "

"How do you do, Mrs. Wilton?" returned
Norma. " Where is Madge ? "

Madge is at home in an execrable
temper," answered the elder lady, who was
evidently smarting under a strong sense of
injury. *' At the last moment she declared
she had a headache and went off to bed.
Isn't that just like Madge ? Why I was
such an idiot as to come here without her
I can't think ; and I am literally fainting
with hunger, and I haven't the courage to
force my way into the supper-room all
alone and ask for food. Couldn't you pilot
me down, Norma ? You are big enough to
take care of us both, I'm sure."

Miss Shaft laughed. " Perhaps the
servants would pay more respect to a
gentleman," said she. " Let me introduce
Lord Walter Sinclair, who, I know, will
be delighted to get you something to eat.
Lord Walter and I were playfellows long
ago, when his father used sometimes to beat

Warbury Park ; but that was before you
came to our neighbourhood, I think."

Lord Walter resigned himself to the
force of circumstances. He was not best
pleased ; but he put a good face upon a
bad business and offered his arm to Mrs.
Wilton, who unhesitatingly clutched it.
Perhaps the parting smile with which
Miss Shaft rewarded him may have helped
him to do his duty with some show of
alacrity.

Later in the evening, when he regained
his liberty, he sought that companion of
his childhood once more, but without success.
Instead of her, he encountered his
hostess, who said somewhat abruptly,
Well ; how is Elizabeth of Hungary
getting on ? "

The young man raised his eyebrows, for
his acquaintance with Mrs. Lammergeier
was but a slight one, and he was a good
deal surprised by her question. " Thank
you," he replied gravely, " Elizabeth of
Hungary is getting on as well as can be

expected — which is not very well. May I
venture to ask how you come to know
anything about her ? "

Mrs. Lammergeier made a half turn, so
as to face him, kicked out her train and
laughed. " I had the honour and pleasure
of sitting beside you at dinner a few weeks
ago," she answered. " You told me that
you were a sculptor and that the work
upon which you were engaged was a
representation of Elizabeth of Hungary.
I didn't know who lie was at the time;
but I looked her out in the Encyclopaedia
when I got home, and I thought to myself
that you would make a mess of your subject.
I wasn't very far wrong, it seems."

You were quite right," answered Lord
Walter ; ''I am making a mess of it. I
don't know why you should have foreseen
that, though."

It wasn't such a very difficult thing to
foresee. I should imagine that there would
be some preliminary trouble in the matter
of costume. The back view, for instance,

VOL. I. 2

would be apt to be a trifle ridiculous.
Then of course you would represent her
holding her basket of loaves which have
just been miraculously converted into roses ;
so that your representation would require
an explanation, which I should think
would be a serious drawback. The ignorant
spectator would see nothing in your work
except a mediaeval flower-girl of saintly
demeanour, and the combination might
strike him as a shade grotesque."

You are a very severe critic, Mrs.
Lammergeier," remarked Lord Walter,
whose smile betrayed some inward annoyance.


"' I was only telling you why I expected
you to fail. After all, it doesn't greatly
signify whether you fail or succeed, I
suppose. One pities a professional who
has wasted his time, because in that case
loss of time means loss of bread and butter ;
but an amateur has as much bread and
butter as he can eat and more time than
he knows how to employ."

Well, I am not an amateur, at any
rate," returned the young man. " I suppose
I mustn't venture to call myself a
professional yet; but I hope to become
one, and I shall be very much disappointed
if my profession doesn't bring me in a
little more bread and butter."

Really ? " said Mrs. Lammergeier, with
a quick glance at her neighbour. " Then
let me strongly advise you to go in for
busts. I am convinced that that is the
most lucrative thing. Why not do a bust
of Hermann ? He would be sure to pay
handsomely, and the subject would be a
pleasing one."

The above colloquy had been by no
means continuous. Mrs. Lammergeier had
been repeatedly interrupted, and more than
once her interlocutor would have passed
on, leaving the field free for others, if she
had not laid a detaining hand upon his
arm. He paused now, feeling doubtful
whether she was laughing at him or at her
husband or at both of them, and he had

not yet thought of a rejoinder which
should be at once polite and snubbing (for
it struck him that a gentle snub would do
this free-spoken woman no harm), when
she turned away and left him.

He knew very little of his entertainers,
and, as he had frankly informed Miss
Shaft, the little that he did know had not
prepossessed him in their favour. They
were, however, people who had of late
become very generally known, and at
whose house, as has already been said,
distinguished personages did not hesitate
to show themselves. Now, it might have
been thought that a little black-advised
Jew of doubtful nationality and untraceable
origin would have been satisfied with such
a company as was assembled under his roof
on the evening in question ; but Baron
Lammergeier was not satisfied, and perhaps
if he had been the kind of man to content
himself with anything short of the very
best that could be procured, he would not
have been where he was. The company

which he was wont to entertain, though
good enough for most of us, was not quite
the very best imaginable, for it included
no royalties and was likewise denied the
countenance of a few of those rare and
old-fashioned members of the British
aristocracy who do not care to be entertained
by persons unprovided with
authentic great-grandfathers. This vexed
Lammergeier, because he felt it to be so
perfectly unreasonable. What in the world
would they have ? he asked himself, with
pardonable indignation. When one is a
sort of minor Rothschild, when one has
been educated at Eton and Oxford and is
a naturalized Englishman and represents
a London constituency, besides grudging
neither 1874 Giesler nor strawberries in
January, nor anything else that the most
exacting hon-vivant can desire to eat or
drink, surely one is entitled to expect the
recognition of the highest in the land !
However as he was nothing if not persevering,
and as he possessed a fine belief

in himself, he meant to have that recognition
sooner or later. And, to be sure,
he was still in some sense a new man.
That is to say that, although he had had
a rich father and had never lacked money,
it was only of late years that he had
amassed the colossal fortune with which he
was now credited.

How Baron Lammergeier's wealth had
been acquired and what his precise avocations
were only a very few of his guests
knew. Some said that he was a banker
and had had extensive dealings with continental
governments — indeed, it was
noticeable that the representatives of
foreign nations were remarkably civil to
him — but for the most part his friends
were content to describe him as '' the great
City man, don't you know," which definition
was doubtless accurate enough for all
ordinary intents and purposes. In person
Baron Laramergeier could scarcely be called
pleasing. He was a short, stout man, with
a hooked nose (through which he talked),

a waxed moustache, a double chin, and a
pair of glittering little eyes. His hair,
which was coal-black and very thick, he
wore cut close to his head. His age at
this time was about forty, but his rotund
figure and the deep horizontal lines upon
his forehead made him look older. There
were people who thought his manners
pleasant, and there were others who held
a different opinion. It is difficult to speak
positively upon a question which is so
much one of taste ; but at any rate there
can be little doubt but that he meant his
manners to be pleasant. He had been for
some years married to the daughter and
sole heiress of a deceased London banker,
and it was rumoured that her large fortune
had been already doubled by the astute
manipulation of her husband.

Mrs. Lammergeier's manners did not at
all resemble those of her lord. It is
probable that she also differed from him
in not caring particularly whether they
were pleasant or not. However, like many

other brusque people, she conveyed the
impression to those who were brought into
contact with her that she was honest. Her
visiting-cards bore the inscription of " Mrs.
Lammergeier," and she preferred to be so
addressed. " Hermann is really a baron,
I believe," she would remark ; " but where
he got his barony from is more than I can
tell you. Anyhow, it isn't an English one,
so I don't think I will use a coronet just at
present." Plain-featured and insignificant
looking, her hair, eyes, and complexion
being all of varying shades of the same
whitey-brown hue, she nevertheless presented
a sufficiently imposing appearance
when arrayed for the evening. Perhaps
her dressmaker knew how to make the
best of her ; perhaps the size and number
of her diamonds would have made anybody
look imposing. It should be added however
that she had that perfect ease and
aplomb which one occasionally encounters
in the most unexpected quarters, and sometimes
misses where one would naturally

9n

look to find it. By the few who knew her
well she was considered to be a shrewd
observer, and perhaps a casual remark
which she made in the course of the
evening to one of these few intimates maybe
taken as affording some testimony to
the accuracy of their estimate.

I have seen just two persons in this
crowd who have interested me," said she.
One is a young lady who goes in for
practical philanthropy, and the other is a
sprig of nobility who is going in for art.
What is singular is that the young lady is
an optimist and the artist is a pessimist
To be sure, they neither of them know
what they are, so one can't hold them
responsible for their views."

CHAPTER II.

MISS SHAFTO's FATHER.

While Miss Shaft had been renewing
acquaintance with Lord Walter Sinclair,
there might have been seen, wandering
restlessly about the crowded rooms, a tall,
silver-haired old man, whose features bore
so strong a family likeness to hers that
any one who did not already know him to
be her father would at once have divined
the relationship.

He might almost have been her grandfather,
so much older was he than she, and
she was in fact by many years the youngest
of his children, as well as the only survivor
of them. The loss of his wife and of three
sons may have added to or deepened the
lines which Time had drawn upon Mr.

Shaft's face ; yet it was by no means the
face of an unhappy man. Since it resembled
his daughter's, it was of course a
handsome face ; but closer examination
showed that it differed from hers in one
or two important particulars, notably in
the set of the mouth, which betokened
irresolution and irritability whereas the
curve of hers was as yet unspoiled. Any
physician who had been called in to attend
Mr. Shaft would have seen at a glance
that his patient had a highly-strung nervous
organization, and would probably
have prescribed bread pills with perfect
confidence in results. The forehead was
broad and lofty, the brows arched, the blue
eyes wide open and somewhat eager in
expression ; but the jaw was defective, and
the lower lip inclined to be tremulous at
times. Mr. Shaft belonged to that order
of beings whose perceptions are keen and
whose emotions are easily excited, but who
lack stability. He had been broken-hearted
when his wife died ; he had been brokenhearted

when his two healthy schoolboys
were carried off, one after the other, by
scarlet fever ; he had been broken-hearted
when bis eldest son and heir was taken
from him in early manhood, after a far
from satisfactory career. But in each and
all of these cases the fracture had been
found to be reparable.

At the present time, owing to agricultural
depression, he was a comparatively poor
man, after having been a comparatively
rich one — a state of things so intolerable
to one of his generous and careless temper
that, instead of submitting to it, he had
determined to turn his back upon it. For
such an alternative there is always something
to be said ; but there is very little to
be said in favour of the scheme which now
occupied Mr. Shaft's sanguine brain —
that, namely, of replenishing his empty
coffers by the buying and selling of speculative
securities. Baron Lammergeier, it
was reported, had realized an enormous
fortune by no other means ; but then

Baron Lammergeier was not precisely an
every-day individual, nor were his methods
of operating such as could be safely emulated
by an inexperienced country gentleman.
Mr. Shaft, however, had resolved
to emulate them in a humble way, and
what was more, he counted upon Hammers
to assist him in so doing. He had,
or thought he had, claims upon the goodwill
of the millionaire which the latter, for
his part, had never been slow to acknowledge.
Lammergeier, as has been already
mentioned, had been educated at Eton and
Oxford, and at both of these places of
learning he had been intimate with young
Tom Shaft. The true story of Tom
Shaft's short life had never been revealed
to his father. That he had, unfortunately,
become imbued with a taste for backing-horses,
and that he had, still more unfortunately,
taken to drinking and other
forms of dissipation — these things were
avowed by the culprit himself and notorious
to all who knew him. But the precise

nature of his transactions with Hammers
had not been made so clear. On
three several occasions his father had had
to pay up sums varying from two to three
thousand pounds for him, and on his deathbed
the young man declared that Lam-merrier
had had all the money. Moreover,
he stated that he still owed two
thousand in the same quarter, and called
Lammergeier an infernal thief. But, after
all, he was half delirious when he said these
things, and Lammergeier behaved very
well in the matter. He absolutely refused
to take the two thousand pounds which
Mr. Shaft offered to him after poor Tom
had been laid in his grave. He acknowledged
that he had from time to time made
advances to his deceased friend, but these,
he said, had been repaid with interest, and
he doubted whether anything more was
due to him. In any case, he would not
accept more. Did Mr. Shaft take him fora
money-lender ? he asked, with some indignation.


Out of these somewhat unpromising circumstances
a friendship had sprung up
between the country squire and the Jewish
financier which had not ceased when the
latter attained that high position in the
commercial and social world which he
occupied at the time selected for the opening
of this narrative.

It was therefore not unnatural that, intaking
up what might probably prove to
be a permanent residence in London, Mr.
Shaft should have been willing to accept
the hospitality of the wealthy denizens of
the house in Grosvenor Place ; and on this
evening he had been especially anxious todo
so, because he wanted very much to put
a few questions to his host upon matters
of business.

'' Have you seen Lammergeier anywhere
? " he kept asking of the friends and
acquaintances who stopped him as he
elbowed his way through the rooms. He
had a great many acquaintances, and nearly
all of them might have been described as

his friends. Everybody liked Mr. Shaft,
because he liked and took an interest in
everybody, or at any rate seemed to do so.

At length, standing beneath the awning
on the balcony, he came upon the object of
his search, who was engaged in earnest
conversation with the sallow envoy of a
South American Republic. Mr. Shaft
paused, not wishing to interrupt a colloquy
of international importance ; but Hammers
who may have been willing to be
interrupted, at once made him a sign of
recognition, and shook off his diplomatic
friend, saying, '^ You voyez bien, mon
cher Ministre, qu'il me faudra reflector
avant de vous donner une repose definitive."


Then he stepped out of the balcony into
the room, holding out a fat hand. " My
dear Mr. Shaft," said he, " you are the
very man whom I wanted to see."

How are you, Lammergeier ? " returned
Mr. Shaft, heartily. " I wanted to see
you too. About those shares "

To be sure, my dear friend, to be sure !
What shares ? "

"The Eio Cuzco mining shares, you
know."

Ah, you hold Rio Ouzcos ? '

Why, you advised me to buy them.
Don't you remember ? "

Did I indeed ? Yery likely — very
likely ! Well, now I advise you to sell."

But, my dear Lammergeier," said Mr.
Shaft, looking a little blue, " if I do that
I shall lose half my principal."

Lammergeier shrugged his shoulders.
Better to lose the half than the whole,
perhaps. But make your mind easy, Mr.
Shaft ; I will see that you are not a loser.
What was the amount of your original
venture ? Five thousand ? — six thousand?"

Oh dear, no ! only a thousand. Still
you understand "

** Ah, bah ! I will give you a thousand
for your shares tomorrow. It is I who
am responsible ; and after all, the speculation
may yet prove a paying one. Pray

VOL. I. 8

do not protest or think of thanking me;
there is quite a good chance that I shall have
the best of the bargain in the long run."

Anybody who knew Baron Lammergeier
would have been prepared to agree with
him as to that probability; but perhaps
Mr. Shaft did not know him very welland
it certainly sounded generous to offer
a thousand pounds for shares which would
barely have fetched five hundred in the
open market. The old gentleman accordingly
did protest until Lammergeier, laughing,
stuffed his fingers into his ears and
said, " Now, now ! I will not listen anymore.
I want you to listen to me instead.
Tell me, have you yet found a tenant for
Brampton Priory ? "

Mr. Shaft shook his head. "Not I!
We haven't had so much as a nibble yet.
The agents declare that they can't let
country houses for a term of years in these
days. People take a place for six months,
they say, and then get sick of it and go off
somewhere else."

Well," said Lammergeier, " I think I
know a man who would be quite inclined
to take Brampton for three years, with
option of renewal for seven."

*' The deuce you do ! Would he agree
to my terms, I wonder ? Who is he ? "

*' Sir Christopher Shearman — you may
have heard of him. His father was made
a baronet because he was an ironmaster.
At least, I have been told that that was
the reason ; but as his father is dead and
buried, it don't signify. Sir Christopher is
a very rich man, and he is anxious to settle
in Stourshire. I don't think there would
be any difficulty about terms if he fancied
the place."

*' Anxious to settle in the county, is he ?
But why ? — what's his reason for that ? "
asked Mr. Shaft inquisitively.

That I can't tell you for certain ; but
between ourselves, I fancy that he has
thoughts of contesting the southern division
when a vacancy occurs. In the Conservative
interest, of course ; I should

never think of recommending a Radical
tenant to you."

Baron Lammergeier was a staunch Tory,
and had high notions with regard to the
destiny of the Empire which could not
boast the honour of having produced him.

Oh, well," said Mr. Shaft, who perhaps
felt that he could afford to be more
tolerant, " so long as the man paid his
rent, I shouldn't bother my head much
about his politics. Is he here this evening
by any chance?"

Baron Lammergeier believed that he
was, and added that he would be enchanted
to make two such good friends of his
known to one another.

A few minutes later his two good friends
were shaking hands. Sir Christopher
Shearman was a short, thickset, broad-shouldered
man, with a somewhat florid
complexion. His hair and beard were of a
lightish brown hue, the former having a
few grey threads in it and having become
rather thin upon the top of his head. He

had a hearty, jovial sort of manner, tempered
by a suspicion of shyness. He fidgeted
about a good deal while he talked and
was apparently averse to looking straight
at the person to whom he was talking.

As far as I could judge from a distant
view, your place would suit me down to
the ground, Mr. Shaft," said he. "Perhaps
you'll authorize me to make a visit of
inspection, and then we'll leave the rest to
the agents, eh ? "

'' Quite so," agreed Mr. Shaft. " By all
means, inspect Brampton any day that
may suit you, and if you'll kindly let me
know when you think of running down,
I'll see that luncheon shall be ready for
you. I think you would like our neighbourhood.
You would find plenty of
pleasant people within easy reach, and
there's always something or other going
on. You're a married man of course ? "

Oh no," answered Sir Christopher,
laughing a little, " I ain't a married man
yet. The fact is that I haven't an acre ora

stone to call my own, except a little ,
and a man can't very well marry
until he has a house to take his wife to,
can he ? "

The obvious inference was that Sir
Christopher contemplated matrimony at an
early date. This, however, was no business
of Mr. Shaft's, who changed the
subject, and was gratified to learn that his
intending tenant was a keen sportsman.
If hunting and shooting are what you
want," he declared, " I can promise you
plenty of both in Stourshire. I don't say
that either is absolutely first rate ; but
when one finds the two things together,
one hardly expects that."

Sir Christopher gave it to be understood
that he would be satisfied with something
short of a combination of Norfolk and
Leicestershire, and Mr. Shaft went off in
high good humour to seek his daughter.

Having found her, he lost no time in
letting her hear his news.

What do you think. Norma ? I really

believe I've got a tenant for Brampton.
A very good fellow he seems to be. Fond
of sport and as rich as Croesus, Lammergeier
says. Sir Christopher Shearman — did you
ever hear of him ? "

Yes, I have heard of him," answered
Norma, after considering for a moment ;
Mrs. Wilton was speaking about him the
other day."

*' Oh, Mrs. Wilton knows him, does she ?
That's all right ; then he'll have friends
close at hand to start with. That's capital.
Now, Norma, what do you say to going
home ? Have you had enough of this ? "

Miss Shaft had had quite enough of it,
and expressed her willingness to depart.
If in her heart she had harboured a half-acknowledged
hope that Brampton Priory
might not be let, after all, and that she
and her father might be compelled to
return thither, she was very properly
ashamed of her selfishness and allowed no
indication of disappointment to appear
upon her face.

CHAPTER III.

AN UNSUCCESSFUL DINNER.

One afternoon, a day or two after the
Lammergeier entertainment, Norma Shaft
was busily engaged in addressing and
stamping envelopes when Lord Walter
Sinclair was announced.

I'm afraid I am interrupting you," he
said, as she rose from her writing-table.
*' Are you sending out invitations for a
ball ? "

Oh no," she answered, laughing ; 'ewe
don't attempt balls, I am thankful to say.
We haven't sufficient space for that, and I
am not sure that we have a sufficiently
large acquaintance either. These missives
are directed, for the most part, to people
whom I have never seen."

The table was covered with lithographed
half-sheets of paper, one of which Lord
Walter took the liberty of examining. He
drew down the corners of his mouth and
raised his eyebrows a little as he perused
it. " Do you go in for this kind of thing ? "
he inquired.

I have begun to go in for it during the
last few weeks. Why do you look as if
you disapproved ? "

I don't disapprove," answered Lord
Walter ; " I have no right to disapprove.
It's very good and very kind of you and
your friends. Only it isn't of the very
slightest use, you know."

The paper which he held in his hand
conveyed an appeal to the benevolent to
assist, either by money contributions or by
personal effort, in providing innocent recreation
for the inhabitants of a poor
district of London.

But I don't know anything of the sort,"
Miss Shaft declared. " To amuse these
people for an evening and to keep them

out of the public-houses is of some use,
surely."

"Not much, I'm afraid. What is the
matter with John Smith isn't that he is in
want of amusement, but that he is in want
of work, and consequently in want of food
and clothing. I doubt whether your
recreation-rooms will make him forget his
troubles. And gin is cheap."

It isn't cheap if you spend all your
spare money upon it. Besides you take no
account of John Smith's wife and children."

What business has he with a wife and
children ? "

I don't know, but there they are."

Yes ; and if the worst comes to the
worst, the ratepayers will preserve them
from death by hunger. More than that
neither the ratepayers nor anybody else
can do. The evil is in the constitution of
society, and all the pretty modern palliatives
are doomed to failure. One of these days
we shall have a revolution, I suppose, and
some of us will probably be shot or hanged ;

though I have never been able to see why
we are to blame."

Miss Shaft looked grave, and reflected
for a few seconds. '' I know something
about the agricultural poor," she said
presently; "I don't know much about
large towns. But if there is really no cure
for all this misery — and I am by no means
convinced yet that there is none — palliatives,
as you call them, are at least better
than utter indifference. "We aren't so
ambitious as you seem to think ; but we do
what little we can."

Lord Walter had at one time examined
into the social problems arising out of
excess of population, over-crowding, competition,
drunkenness and the like, and had
read a great many Blue Books bearing
upon these subjects. The conclusion at
which he had arrived was a disheartening
one, and it made him impatient of the
futile panaceas of well-meaning persons.
Nevertheless, he admired Miss Shaft for
engaging in a kindly work — or else he

admired the work because Miss Shaft was
engaged in it. Possibly, if she had been a
sour faced old maid, with a pair of spectacles
and a dowdy gown, he would have
changed the subject ; but as it was, a five-pound
note was withdrawn from his pocket
and placed in the young lady's white palm.

"I'll do likewise," said he; 'i'll do
what little I can."

Whereupon Miss Shaft pointed out to
him that, although five-pound notes were
all very well and they were much indebted
to him for his generosity, that was not
quite all that he could do towards helping
his less fortunate fellow-creatures. " Why
shouldn't you come and talk to them ? " she
asked. " You could tell them all sorts of
things about art which would be sure to
interest them."

'' Now, Miss Shaft, do you really believe
that they would thank me for offering
them a stone, even though it should have
been chiselled by Michael Angelo, when
what they ask for is bread ? I can understand

that a comic song might be welcome
as a diversion ; but unfortunately I can't
sing comic songs."

No," said the girl, laughing, " you
don't look as if you could. But I believe
there are others who can and do."

She was proceeding to give some details
as to the various methods by which it was
proposed to enlarge the intellectual and
moral range of the masses, when she was
interrupted by the entrance of her father,
who came into the room, talking hurriedly
and disjointed, as was his wont, though
there was seldom any necessity for him to
be in a hurry.

Now, Norma dear, if you can spare mea
cup of tea I shall be grateful. Such a
day ! Business of one kind or another
from breakfast-time until now, except for
just an hour about two o'clock, when Lam-merrier
kindly insisted upon giving me
some luncheon. Hullo ! who's this ? Oh !
Lord Walter Sinclair, isn't it ? Yery glad
to see you. Your father and I used to be

great allies once upon a time. You have
taken up sculpture as an occupation, Norma
tells me. Happy man to be able to do it !
Perhaps you'll let me look in at your
studio one of these days. Nobody is more
fond of art than I am, though I don't
pretend to know much about it."

In spite of this modest disclaimer, Mr.
Shaft did know something about art, and
he managed to say what he knew in such
a manner as to please and interest his
hearer ; which — considering that the latter
had been disposed to set him down as an
unmitigated bore — showed that he himself
was a somewhat artful person. " I wish,"
he said, after a time, " you would stay and
dine with us. Mrs. Wilton and her daughter
are coming, and Sir Christopher Shear-man,
who proposes to be my tenant at
Brampton. But of course you're engaged."

As a matter of fact Lord Walter was
engaged, and he was not one of those
unscrupulous persons who think nothing
of sending an excuse to their would-be

entertainers when it is far too late to find
substitutes for them. Nevertheless he
answered, "Thank you, Mr. Shaft. I
can't very well stay as I am ; but if you
will allow me to go home and dress, I
should like very much to dine with you."

Now Mr. Shaft was a very nice old
gentleman and had an extremely pleasant
manner ; but the inducement of dining in
his company would perhaps hardly have
sufficed in itself to make Lord Walter
throw over an older friend, as well as one
who would have been likely to give him a
much better dinner. The little that he had
seen of Mrs. Wilton had not greatly prepossessed
him in favour of that lady, and
of Sir Christopher Shearman he neither
knew nor wanted to know anything at all.
It seemed pretty clear therefore that Miss
Shaft must be responsible for the breach
of courtesy which he proposed to commit ;
and while he was dressing he said to
himself, with a slight laugh, that he
supposed she was. The reason why he

laughed was that he considered himself
quite the reverse of an impressionable
man, and it struck him as funny that he
should be putting himself at all out of the
way for the sake of any young woman in
the world.

Yet when he returned to Upper Belgrave
Street and was received by Miss Shaft,
who was the only occupant of the drawing-room,
he came to the conclusion that it
was not, after all, so very funny that he
should be interested in her ; for certainly
she was unlike any of the other young
women whom he had previously encountered
in the world, and if he had persuaded
himself that her philanthropy differed from
the futile and short-sighted philanthropy
which has become a part of modern fashionable
life, that was perhaps excusable on his
part, seeing how very handsome she was.
Just as he was about to resume the discussion
which her father had cut short in
the afternoon, Mrs. Wilton was announced.
Horizontal wrinkles were visible upon Mrs.

Wilton's brow ; the corners of lier mouth
were drawn down distressfully, and her
first words intimated that she was not less
aggrieved than she had been on the night
of Baron Lammergeier's reception. Her
grievance, too, it appeared, was the same
now as it had been then.

My dear Norma," she began, in her
high, querulous voice, " I am' quite ashamed
to show my face here without Madge ; but
you know what Madge is 1 Not until five
o'clock this afternoon did she calmly inform
me that she had engaged herself to dine
^vith Ethel Langley and go to the theatre
afterwards. I asked her when she had
made that engagement, and she said, ' Ages
ago' — which, of course, was ridiculous.
My dear, when you have daughters of
your own, let me warn you and implore
you not to spoil them by sparing the rod
while they are young. I know perfectly
well that it is entirely owing to my foolish
indulgence that I am treated as a mere zero
by my children in my — my middle age."

VOL. I. 4

^* I won't forget your advice, Mrs.
"Wilton," answered Norma, laughing; ^*my
children, if I ever have any, shall be
whipped before being sent to bed every
night. All the same, I can forgive Madge
for preferring the play to a dull little
dinner with us."

Well, you are very good-natured to
say so, and to be sure she can see you any
day. It isn't her rudeness to you that

annoys me; it's " Here Mrs. Wilton

came to an abrupt pause, and possibly she
did not complete her sentence quite as she
had originally intended when she added,
"It's so disrespectful to Mr. Shaft, you
know."

What is disrespectful to Mr. Shaft ? "
inquired that gentleman, who now hurried
into the room. " It's very disrespectful of
Mr. Shaft, I'm afraid, to come downstairs
after two of his guests have arrived. And
what has become of my friend Madge ?
Not knocked up with her dissipations, I
hope ? "

On being informed at full length of the
delinquencies of the absent Madge, Mr.
Shaft showed himself not less lenient than
his daughter, in spite of which Mrs. Wilton
continued to look dissatisfied.

Lord Walter, who had been languidly
listening to her and wishing that she
would drop an uninteresting topic, wondered
at her persistent harping upon it
until the party was completed by the
arrival of Sir Christopher Shearman. Then
he began to understand what was the
matter.

Sir Christopher was in many respects a
child of Nature. His features were wont
to exhibit a ready and faithful reflection of
his emotions, and anything more comical
than his look of blank disappointment,
after he had eagerly scanned the room in
search of somebody who was not there.
Lord Walter had seldom witnessed. Nota
little comical, too, was the precipitation
with which Mrs. Wilton explained to the
new-comer how vexed her daughter had

LIBRARY

been that a previous engagement to a
tiresome cousin " had prevented her from
joining their friendly little gathering.
Mrs. Wilton might be an excellent mother,
but she was obviously not the most skilful
of diplomatists. While she was pouring
forth her mendacious harangue, Lord
Walter chanced to catch Norma's eye, and
smiled, receiving an answering smile,
which however was at once repressed.

For his own part, he naturally did not
care very much whether Miss Wilton
pleased herself or her mother and Sir
Christopher ; but the results of selfishness,
like those of other vices, are far-reaching,
and a party composed of five persons
frequently has reason to deplore the lack
of a sixth. Lord Walter did not mind
walking into the dining-room by himself,
although he was clearly entitled to take
precedence of a baronet ; but he did object
very strongly to Miss Shaft's attention
being monopolized by his supplanter, and
this was the more annoying because his

supplanter's conduct at the beginning of
dinner was not such as to merit kindness
or consideration. Sir Christopher was
both sulky and rude. He said some fellows
had asked him to stay the night at Ascot,
and he wished to goodness he had done so,
instead of hurrying back to London. Also
he made a very ugly face at the first extreme
and dropped his fork ostentatiously after
swallowing a mouthful of it. By the time
that he had twice yawned in an undisguised
and offensive manner and had
declared his intention of getting to bed
early for once, Lord Walter, though not of
a choleric temperament, was ready to kick
him out into the street.

But Miss Shaft submitted to all this
discourtesy with perfect good humour.
She treated her guest very much as if he
had been a refractory child, ignoring his
petulance, patiently endeavouring to amuse
him, and laughing with a very fair imitation
of heartiness at the feeble jokes which
he began to crack after his second glass of

champagne. To Lord Walter it seemed
strange enough that she should take so
much trouble about an ill-conditioned fellow-like
that, but he supposed that she must
have her reasons, and it was plain that, sofar
as immediate results were concerned,
she had her reward. Long before dinner
was at an end Sir Christopher s surliness
had given place to a familiar and somewhat
noisy jocularity which one of his hearers
thought scarcely an improvement upon his
former mood. But that hearer was prejudiced
and hard to please. Miss Shaft
appeared to be quite satisfied with her
handiwork. Having achieved so signal a
success with one of her neighbours, she was
now able to bestow a little more notice
upon the other, and during the last half-hour
that he spent in the dining-room
Lord Walter could not fairly complain of
being neglected. However, anything like
comfortable conversation was impossible
while Sir Christopher persisted in striking
in with some foolish and irrelevant observation

every other minute. There was
evidently nothing for it but to await the
departure of that obnoxious personage.

This did not take place quite as early
in the evening as might have been expected
and hoped ; but at eleven o'clock he jumped
up and took leave of his hostess, with whom
he had for some time previously been
engaged in an earnest colloquy which Lord
Walter had not cared to interrupt. The
latter dropped into the vacant place as Sir
Christopher disappeared through the doorway.
Mr. Shaft and Mrs. Wilton were
busy over a game of cribbage, so that he
could put any question he pleased to Norma
without fear of being overheard ; and the
question which it pleased him to put was,
May I venture to ask why you were so
kind to that overgrown lout ? "

Well," she answered, " I am sorry for
him."

"But why? He came 'here, I presume,
to meet Miss Wilton, and he didn't meet
lier. That, no doubt, was a bore for him,

but it didn't excuse Ms behaving like a
savage."

"I don't think he could help himself,
poor fellow. He told me just now that
he was afraid he had been very rude and
that he was sorry for it. What more
could he say? I rather like people who
can't conceal their feelings; it shows a
sort of Honesty, don't you think so ? You
didn't mind my asking him to take me
down to dinner, I hope ? "

"Not in the least," answered Lord Walter,
smiling.

I was sure you wouldn't, and I was
sure he would be very much put out if he
were left to walk downstairs alone. Besides,
if you insist on knowing the whole truth,
I am very anxious to keep upon good terms
with Sir Christopher Shearman, because he
has taken Brampton, and I want him to be
kind to the poor people in the neighbourhood."


He doesn't look as if he had a very
large supply of the milk of human kindness

in his composition ; but I trust you
may be successful. Who and what is Miss
Wilton ? And why did she refuse to come
here and meet the amiable Sir Christopher?"

Norma shrugged her shoulders slightly.
Madge is Madge," she replied. " When
you have seen her you will be able to form
your own opinion as to what she is. What
I fear she never will be is Lady Shear-man."


Do you mean to say that you would
like her to be Lady Shearman ? Then of
course she isn't a friend of yours."

She is a great friend of mine, and her
mother would like her to be Lady Shear-man.
I am not quite sure whether I wish
it or not; I think she might do worse.
But she will please herself, so it doesn't
much matter what anybody may wish.
Let us talk about something else. Have
you a studio, Lord Walter ? And is it
open to the inspection of humble admirers
of art, like my father and myself ? "

I shall be only too proud, Miss Shaft,

if you will deign to pay me a visit. I
have nothing of my own that is worthy
of your notice, but I do possess a few trifles
by other people which you might care to
look at. Perhaps you would come to tea
with me some afternoon. Next Thursday,
for instance ? "

Norma consulted an engagement-book.
Yes," she answered, " so far as I know,
Thursday will suit us very well. I will
write you down for Rve o'clock'*

Mr. Shaft, having finished his game
of cribbage, said he was sure he didn't
know. " Thursday — hem ! I might or I
might not be free. I think you had better
not make any arrangement. Norma."

But Mrs. Wilton, who, like Sir Christopher
Shearman, may have felt that she
had displayed her sentiments somewhat too
openly in the earlier part of the evening,
and who may have desired to make amends
for her incivility, struck in with, " I shall
be delighted to chaperon you. Norma dear,
if Lord Walter will kindly extend his invitation

to us. There is nothing that I
enjoy more than visiting studios."

So Lord Walter went away in pretty
good spirits, notwithstanding the fact that
he had spent a somewhat dull evening.

Chapter lY.

FRIENDLY CRITICS.

Something might be said in favour of the
law of primogeniture ; but it would be
scarcely worth while to say it, since everybody
is agreed that the law will be abrogated
ere long. In favour of the principle, which,
may be expected to survive the law for a
time, a certain number of voices will doubtless
also be raised ; but amongst these it
is improbable that the voices of younger
sons will be loud or vehement.

To be the younger son of a marquis, to
have been brought up in the enjoyment
of every luxury, and finally to be left to
fight your way through the world as best
you may, with a few hundreds a year for
your portion, is not, one must confess, an

enviable lot, and one might even go so far
as to say that there is a certain taint of
injustice about it. Lord Walter Sinclair
had been in some respects more hardly used
than younger sons generally are ; inasmuch
as he had found himself, at his
father's death, in possession of an income
smaller than that which his father had been
accustomed to allow him. For this unpleasant
state of affairs he did not blame
the late Lord Loddondale, who indeed had
been but little to blame in the matter ; but
he did sometimes feel a slight sense of
grievance against the present holder of the
title and estates, to whose extravagance the
diminution in the paternal savings was
wholly and solely due.

Lord "Walter, however, was not a greedy
man, and had acquired a certain measure
of philosophy at the expense of some loss
of faith in human nature. He had lived
in the world (in the sense of having lived
in what is called '' society ") and had seen
a good deal of it, and had learnt to expect

remarkably little of his fellow-mortals. He
was pretty well educated, his inclinations
having led him to take advantage of such
opportunities as Eton and Oxford afford.
He knew a great deal more about art than
most amateurs and as much as a good many
professionals. Quite recently he had determined
to adopt as a profession what he had
at first regarded merely as an amusement,
and he was by no means without hope of
eventually making a substantial addition
to his means by modelling clay.

"You'll have to work for your living,
Walter, I fear," old Lord Loddondale had
said to him on his death-bed ; to which he
had replied quite sincerely, that that would
be better than having just enough to live
upon without working.

He occupied a small, but very artistically
furnished dwelling in the neighbourhood
of Holland Park, and his studio was a
commodious and well-lighted one.

Now it came to pass that he was standing
in this studio one afternoon, with his

pipe in his mouth, gazing despondently
at the half-finished figure of Elizabeth of
Hungary, which Mrs. Lammergeier had so
unmercifully criticized, when an altogether
unexpected visitor strolled in, without
having gone through the preliminary form
of knocking at the door. This was a small,
natty-looking man, who seemed to be about
thirty years of age and whose outward
appearance was that of a stud-groom out
of place. His hair, which was of a reddish
tinge, was cropped close to his head; his
face was clean-shaven ; he wore a white
linen scarf with a horseshoe pin in it, and
had a cigar of large size in his mouth.
His features were insignificant, except in
so far as that his eyes had a keen and
almost cunning expression and that there
was a determined set about his thin lips.
At a glance one would have perceived him
to be a man of whom it would be difficult
to get the better ; and indeed that is a
description of him in which he himself
would have cordially concurred.

"Thought I'd look you up, Walter,"
said he, seating himself astride upon the
nearest chair. " Hope I'm not interrupting
you."

How are you, Warbury ? " returned
Lord Walter, addressing his elder brother
by the title which the latter had until
recently borne. " No ; you're not interrupting
me at all. I've been hard at work
all the morning, and I think I shall have
to wait until tomorrow before undoing
what I have done."

Is that the system, you generally go
upon ? " asked Lord Loddondale. " If so,
I should think it might save time and
trouble to do no work at all. Who is the
young woman with the basket and the
game leg ? "

"That settles it," said Lord Walter,
laughing ; " I shall have to make a fresh
start with her now. I knew that left leg
was all wrong ; but I was trying to persuade
myself that the defect was hardly
perceptible. However, if such a good

judge of anatomy as you are pronounces
Queen Elizabeth of Hungary lame, lame
she must be, and there's nothing for it but
to obliterate her."

"My dear chap, there can't be the
slightest question about her lameness ; she
would come down on her head if she tried
to run a yard. I thought, of course, you
meant her to be lame. I don't know,"
continued Lord Loddondale meditatively,
that I ever heard of Queen Elizabeth of
Hungary. I've heard of Queen Elizabeth
of England."

Yes ; so have I. She was a different
historical character. Presumptuous as I
am, I should hardly dare to reproduce her
ruff and hoop in marble."

You wouldn't, eh ? Marble's pretty
expensive, I suppose ? "

It isn't very cheap."

So that I dare say it would cost you a
hundred or two to turn out a statue of
that size. And then it wouldn't be quite
fifty to one that anybody would buy it."

VOL. I. 5

*'No; the odds upon that event would
certainly be less."

A good bit less, I expect. Might even
be a shade the other way. Well now, you
know, Walter, if I were you, I should drop
this statuary business — I should indeed.
Why not go in for something rather less
risky ? Wine, for instance, or timber.
Those are things which have to be supplied
to the public every day, whereas I'm
blessed if I believe that there can be any
great demand for statues, even for sound
ones — which yours ain't, it seems''

"Thank you very much for your advice,"
answered Lord Walter gravely.

I suppose that means, ' None of your
beastly cheek ! ' Well, I really don't
mean to be cheeky, and I wouldn't for the
world deny that you can scalp or sculpt, or
whatever the proper word is, better than
most fellows. Only, you see, the question
is, whether you can make money by it."

"That," agreed Lord Walter, "is the
question, no doubt."

And it don't look to me very much as
if you could or would ; and I know you
must be parish up. Now, I'll tell you
what I came bere for to-day, Walter ; I
came to say to you fairly and squarely
that if you choose to get yourself into
difficulties, you mustn't expect me to keep
on pulling you out and starting you off
again."

Lord Walter reddened slightly. "It
is very kind and thoughtful of you to
give me that warning," said he ; " but
don't you think you might have waited
until I asked you to help me out of a
difficulty ? "

Why, no ; because then it would have
been a little too late. One can't let one's
brother starve. At least, I believe it isn't
considered to be the right thing. I like to
know where I am and let other people
know what they have to expect, that's all.
And now that we understand one another
so far, I've got something more to say
which isn't quite so unpleasant. I quite

admit, Walter, that you have a strongish
case against me. For the first two or
three years after I took to racing I had
the very worst luck that ever mortal man
had; and the consequence was that the
governor had to pay up a good lump of
money for me which would otherwise have
been in your pocket at this moment.
That's rough on you, and it isn't fair
either. Now I'll tell you what I'll do with
you : it isn't much ; but I can't see my
way to doing more. Mind you, a big
rent-roll doesn't always mean a big income,
and as far as I can make out I shall have
precious little pocket-money left when all
expenses are paid. However, I'm ready to
make you an allowance of a thousand a
year. I won't sign any paper or transfer
any capital to you ; but a thousand a year
you shall have so long as I'm not broke
myself; and though you may think a
verbal promise ain't worth much, I'm not
the sort of chap to go back from my word.
Ask anybody you like."

Lord Walter was a little touched and a
good deal amused. " My dear fellow," said
he, " I know that without requiring anybody
else's testimony. But I would rather
not be put upon an allowance, thank you.
I can live upon what I have of my own ;
and even if art doesn't bring me in money,
I shall take good, care that it doesn't ruin
me.

Well," returned Lord Loddondale, with
a jerk of his shoulders, *' don't say I didn't
make you the offer, that's all." He added,
after a short pause, " And I shall be quite
willing to renew it whenever you please.
Of course it isn't for me to dictate
especially as you choose to be so independent
; but really, you know" — and
here he shook his head very seriously —
this sculpture trade isn't at all the sort of
thing that's likely to pay. What's the
good of making everything in marble ? I
should have thought terra-cotta would
have answered all the purpose."

"You are not exactly the person whom

I should have expected to hear preaching
economy," Lord Walter remarked, with a
smile.

You don't know much about me, then ;
that's all I can say. Nothing venture
nothing have, and there's such a thing as
being penny wise and pound foolish ; but
I think a fellow who chucks his money
away unnecessarily is an ass. Now really,
when you come to consider what the price
of marble is "

Here Lord Loddondale's harangue upon
the application of the principles of thrift to
art was interrupted by the entrance of his
brother's servant, who announced that Mrs.
and Miss Wilton and Miss Shaft were in
the drawing-room. Thereupon the economist
jumped up hastily.

"Women, eh?" said he. "I'm off,
then ! Don't let them in till Tve had time
to bolt. Good-bye, Walter. See you
again some time or other, I dare say."

It is neither unnatural nor unpardonable
on the part of a bachelor marquis with

large estates to be something of a woman-hater,
and Lord Loddondale may have had
good reasons for shunning the society of
ladies. At all events, he always did so if
he could. On this occasion he was not
pressed to do violence to his inclinations,
and Lord Walter, after allowing him a
minute to make good his escape, hastened
to the drawing-room to welcome his
visitors.

Miss Shaft was the first to shake hands
with him. " I am afraid," said she, " you
must have quite forgotten that you asked
us to come to tea to-day. We heard a
sound of flying footsteps just now which
was painfully suggestive of our having
scared some friend of yours out of the
house."

'* That was only my brother," answered
Lord Walter. " He is of a retiring disposition.
The tea and muffins will be
brought in in a minute to convince you
that I hadn't at all forgotten your kind
promise."

Then Mrs. Wilton introduced her
daughter, who was a very small and very
elegantly dressed young lady with large
dark eyes. She sat silently in her corner,
sipping the cup of tea which was presently
handed to her, and when her entertainer
exhibited the half-dozen or so of paintings
by well-known modern artists and the
small but admirable collection of china,
bronzes, silver and inlaid work which he
had been fortunate enough to put together,
found no more pertinent remark to make
about them than that they were " very
pretty." He concluded that she was
rather shy and rather bored, and wondered
why she had come.

Norma Shaft was much more appreciative.
She could distinguish between
old and comparatively modern Satsuma,
and knew that one does not pick up a
specimen of genuine Lucy della Eobbia
every day. Also she was able to say in
what the special merit of this or that
picture consisted. Such enlightened criticism

being entirely beyond the capacities
of either of the other ladies present, Lord
Walter and Miss Shaft had the conversation
pretty much to themselves.

Well," said the former at length, " I'm
glad you approve of my humble little show ;
but I suppose that, according to your views,
I am neglecting my duty as a good citizen
by spending money upon such unproductive
objects."

Are those my views ? " she asked. '* I
didn't know they were. I don't deny that
if all these things belonged to me, I should
probably sell them and devote the proceeds
to charitable purposes ; but that is because
my hobby doesn't happen to be the same
as yours. I dare say a great many good
citizens surround themselves with works of
art."

Mrs. Wilton observed vaguely that she
had read somewhere — she couldn't at the
moment recall where — a most interesting
paper which showed what nonsense all that
wild sort of talk was, you know, and that

the poorer classes wouldn't be in the least
benefited, but rather the reverse, if everybody's
income were to be expended solely
upon the necessaries of life. How this
was proved she did not exactly recollect ;
but it certainly was proved, because she
had been quite convinced by the reasoning
of the writer.

At any rate," said Norma, " I haven't
indulged in any such wild talk, that I know
of; so that we shall be able to get on quite
comfortably without proofs of its folly.
Now, Lord Walter, we want to see your
studio, please."

She had an easy, unembarrassed way
with her which he was not quite certain
whether he liked or not. However, he
was as yet scarcely conscious of desiring
anything more than a perfectly frank and
unbiased expression of Miss Shaft's
opinion upon Elizabeth of Hungary ; and
this he obtained the moment that he asked
for it. The leg which Lord Loddondale
had pronounced to be unsound did not

attract her notice ; but she fastened unhesitatingly
upon another and perhaps a
more serious defect.

I think," she said, " that you have
made your saint too self-complacent. She
looks as though she had just performed a
successful conjuring-trick. Surely, if one
had fully intended to tell a lie and had
found one's lie miraculously converted into
the truth, one would be a little bit startled
and dismayed."

Lord Walter laughed, though he was
secretly mortified. " Evidently," said he,
*' this work of art is like Dr. Johnson's leg
of mutton ; it hasn't a single redeeming
point. It is bad in conception, bad in
execution, bad all through and all over.
One consolation is that I don't feel tempted
to try and make it better. I must give
Queen Elizabeth of Hungary up and
attempt to portray somebody else."

That would be the best plan, I should
think," agreed Norma, a little unfeelingly.

But Miss Wilton exclaimed, '* Oh, what

a pity ! " and added, with a sympathetic
sigh, " It must be so awfully difficult to
hit upon a fresh idea ! "

It isn't easy," observed Lord Walter ;
but perhaps it is even less so to carry it
out when you have hit upon it."

And do you really like cudgelling your
brains in this way ? I can't understand
how anybody can enjoy taking unnecessary
trouble."

Mrs. Wilton and Miss Shaft had moved
away a few paces and were examining
some bas-reliefs. Lord Walter looked
down at the pretty, childish face which
was turned up to his and noticed for the
first time how very pretty it was — the
exquisite clearness of the complexion, the
soft brown eyes, the curling lashes, and
the perfectly formed little mouth. It was
scarcely worth while to explain to such a
baby why unnecessary trouble is often
enjoyable or why the trouble which he
gave himself could not be described as
coming under that head. He responded

smilingly with a counter-question. " Do
you like being idle ? "

I don't like having nothing to do,"
she answered, " but when I do anything,
I prefer it to be something pleasant and
amusing. After all, one has so few years
to amuse one's self in ! "

I hope you are amusing yourself now,"
said Lord Walter. " I don't mean at this
moment ; that would be too much to
expect. But I hope you find a London
season tolerably amusing. It is your first,
isn't it ? "

The girl nodded. "And likely to be
my last, I'm afraid. We are mere country
bumpkins, and we can't stand ourselves
these luxuries every year. Yes ; I find it
tolerably amusing — just tolerably. If one
could do as one liked it would be delightful
; but then one can't."

At least," observed Lord Walter, " you
seem to be able to avoid doing things that
you don't like. Upon two separate occasions
I have heard Mrs. Wilton lamenting: that

she had to go to a party without you,
because you had declined to accompany
her."

Miss Wilton displayed a row of very
white teeth. " I don't know about the
first time," she said ; *• the second time, I
suppose, was at the Shaftos' the other
night. Well, I had a chance of going to
the theatre instead, and it wasn't likely —
was it now ? — that I should prefer dining
with the Shaftos to going to the theatre."

I dare say not : tastes differ. You are
very fond of the theatre then ? "

I simply adore it. Next to dancing
with the people whom I wish to dance
with — which I am very seldom allowed todo
— I enjoy going to the theatre beyond
everything else in the world. Unluckily,
it sends mamma to sleep."

To do a good-natured thing and to
gratify your own inclinations at one and
the same time is a rare and precious
privilege. Lord Walter thought he saw
his way to it. " Couldn't we make up a

party to go to the play some evening ? " he
suggested. ''If your mother didn't care
about it, perhaps Mr. Shaft would chaperon
you. And Miss Shaft — is she fond of
theatres too ? "

Miss Wilton laughed and shook her head.
Norma isn t really fond of anything
except slums and tatterdemalions," she
answered ; " but she is such a good old
thing that she will always do what she is
asked to do. Would you yourself like to
come with us ? "

This innocent question was accompanied
by a sudden upward glance which would
doubtless have caused the heart of a
susceptible man to flutter. Lord Walter's
heart may have been as proof against such
assaults as he believed it to be ; but he
certainly thought Miss Wilton a very
charming little person, and his assurance
that he should like it of all things was as
sincere as it was emphatic.

To prove how sincere he was, he lost no
time in broaching his proposition to Miss

Shaft, who laughed and glanced at Madge
and assented. Mrs. Wilton, too, disappointed
expectation by taking it for granted
that she was to be of the party.

And I dare say Sir Christopher Shear-man
would come," she added. "That
would make six, you know, which would be
just right."

Yes ; that would make six," agreed
Norma a little doubtfully. " Anyhow,"
she continued, disregarding a grimace from
Madge, ** we can ask him. The best way
would be for you all to come and dine with
us, when we have decided upon the piece
and the date."

Lord Walter was strongly of opinion
that both those points should be settled
then and there ; and, notwithstanding some
opposition from Mrs. Wilton, who thought
Sir Christopher ought to be consulted, he
carried his motion by a majority of three
to one. Nor did the selection of the piece
present any greater difficulties, three out
of the conclave of four being absolutely

indifferent, while the remaining one frankly
avowed a preference for burlesque.

It is vulgar of me, I know," Miss
Wilton said, with a little appealing side-glance
at Lord Walter. Then she turned
to her mother and added demurely, " I amin
good company, though ; for Sir Christopher
told me the other day that he had
been six times to the Frivolity in the last
month and was quite ready to go again."

When the ladies had taken their leave
Lord Walter sat down and smoked a pipe
and thought them over. He was a reflective
young man ; and his reflections
were sometimes sensible and sometimes
ridiculous, like those of the rest of us.
*' Those two girls," he mused, " make up a
sort of epitome of Woman between them.
One has the defects of her noble qualities,
and the other has — well, I suppose she has
the fascinations that belong to her defects."

Now, whether this analysis came under
the head of sensible or ridiculous, the
sequel will show in good time ; but at all

VOL. T. 6

events it seems clear that a man capable
of making it could hardly have been upon
the point of falling in love with either of
its subjects. Yet that was just what Lord
Walter felt by no means certain about.

CHAPTER Y.

MRS. Wilton's NERVES ARE Shaken.

At six o'clock on the following afternoon
Miss Wilton went to tea with her friend
Norma Shaft, and in the course of conversation
inquired casually —

Do you suppose that Lord Walter
Sinclair works all day in that dismal studio
of his in order to make his living, or is it
only that he pines for celebrity ? "

Most likely he works for both reasons,"
answered Norma. " He told me that he
wasn't well off."

"Poor fellow, what a pity! I thought
he seemed so nice. Decidedly handsome,
too."

He is very nice and very handsome,

and he isn't nearly poor enough to be
pitied. In fact, if I were a man, I should
be inclined to envy him."

His good looks, you mean ? There isn't
much to envy in his talent ; or at all
events you didn't seem to think so. How-could
you be so down upon that unlucky
clay figure of his ! He tried to look as if
he didn't mind ; but he wasn't particularly
successful, and I would have given anything:
to be able to breathe a word of
comfort to him. Unfortunately that was
out of the question, because I know nothing
about statues, and they don't interest mea
bit. I prefer flesh and blood."

Norma looked distressed. " Was I rude?"
she asked. " I am so sorry ; I only said
what I thought."

■ ' But that was the worst of it."

"I am very sorry," repeated Norma.
^' I suppose if one can't be flattering one
ought to hold one's tongue ; only I never
imagined that he would be hurt by hearing
the opinion of an ignoramus. It is hardly

the sort of offence that can be apologized
for, either."

Never mind," said Madge, with a slight
smile ; ^' I dare say he will forgive you,
even without an apology. And in future
you may remember that the opinion of
certain ignoramuses is of immense importance
to certain artists."

She rose as she spoke, and, bending
down to set her empty cup upon the tea-table,
gazed steadily for a moment into her
friend's face.

Norma, my dear," said she, " do you
know that you are blushing ? This is most
remarkable ; for I don't recollect that I
ever before in my life saw you blush. I
shall make a note of it in my diary. ' On
a certain day and at a certain hour Norma
Shaft turned as red as a turkey-cock on
being told that her good opinion was
valued by Lord Walter Sinclair.' A year
hence that entry may have become full of
interest. I'm sorry he isn't rich ; but then
YOU aren't poor, so it doesn't so much
sia*nirv.

Kind-hearted people are not always
good-humoured ; but Norma Shaft was
both'. It was quite true that she was
blushing, and she was annoyed with herself
for being so silly as to blush in that
causeless way ; yet she did not vent her
annoyance upon the indiscreet Madge.

I am not guilty, whatever I may look,"
she declared, laughing. '^ I like Lord
Walter very much, and I used to know
him years ago, when he was a boy ; but
we are scarcely more than acquaintances
now."

Of course that's what anybody would
say under the circumstances."

*' It is the truth, anyhow."

'- Quite sure ? "

Perfectly sure."

Then," said Madge deliberately, " I
rather think I will take him up myself. I
wouldn't for the world interfere with you
in any way ; but if you don't put in a
prior claim, it might perhaps be amusing
to try and find out whether he is really as

impassive as lie looks. Would he respond
to one's modest advances, do you think?"

This speech seemed to displease Norma
a good deal more than the previous insinuation
with regard to herself had done.
She knitted her brows and said, " I wish
you wouldn't talk like that, Madge ! Any
stranger who heard you would think you
were a horrid girl, and I don't like it even
when we are alone."

I knew you wouldn't like it," returned
the other, laughing, " and that was
partly why I said it. Dear old Norma !
I believe you really do think it quite
wicked to flirt. But I really don't, you
see — I don't see the slightest harm in it.
And I think I may safely promise neither
to break Lord Walter's heart nor my own."

'* You may be able to answer for your
own ; I don't see how you can answer for
his. Besides, what about Sir Christopher ? "

'' Oh, bother Sir Christopher ! Please
to bear in mind that I'm not engaged to
Sir Christopher. And if I were, I should

flirt all the more while my liberty lasted,
because it would be wholesome discipline
for him."

• Norma shook her head and sighed. " I
can't understand the pleasure of behaving
in that way," said she. " To say the least
of it, it is unladylike and — and undignified."
■' Madge burst out laughing : she had a
very pretty, childish sort of laugh. " Now
really. Norma," she exclaimed, " you don't,
I hope, expect me to be dignified. But
I'll try to conduct myself like a lady ; and
I was only talking nonsense, and I shall
marry Sir Christopher in due season,
because I shall be made to marry him ;
and then you may be sure that there will
be an end of all friskiness and naughtiness
and amusement at once and for ever."

'' You can't be made to marry Sir Christopher
against your will," observed Norma,
who did not look satisfied by this reassuring
announcement.

Can't I, though ! My dearest Norma,
you have been deprived of that inestimable

blessing, a fond mother ; so you don't
know what people may not be made to do.
Added to which, 1 won't swear that it
would be against my will. When all is
said in disparagement of Sir Christopher
that can be said — and that is a good deal,
Heaven knows ! — the fact remains that he
is immensely rich."

She began to draw on her gloves, smiling
at her friend's grave face. It was not easy
for a girl of Norma's direct and honest
nature to understand this capricious, inconsistent
little being, who sometimes talked
like a child and sometimes like a hardened
woman of the world. She could only
account for such speeches as the above by
assuming that Madge did not really mean
what she said. As a matter of fact, Madge
meant what she said quite as much and
quite as often as other people. What was
doubtless a little perplexing to the observer
was that her sentiments varied with her
hoods, which in their turn were many and
diverse.

It was, for example, a very different
young person from the Madge just described
who demurely followed Mrs. Wilton
into that same drawing-room a few evenings
later. Innocence, simplicity, and a
not unbecoming timidity were expressed
in her features and demeanour ; she was
dressed all in white, and looked, upon the
whole, rather more as though she contemplated
attending an improving lecture for
the young than a burlesque. Mr. Shaft,
to whom the study of her character had
never presented any difficulties and who
had a paternal sort of affection for her,
held her by the hand while he welcomed
her in the style which old gentlemen are
apt to affect in addressing little girls in
their teens.

Well, Miss Madge," said he, " I hear
you are in a fair way to become a confirmed
player. So was I once upon a
time ; but that's a great many years ago,
and I'm afraid I've lost the taste for it.
However, we old folks can enjoy seeing

the young ones enjoy themselves, can't we,
Mrs. Wilton?"

Mrs. Wilton, who perhaps did not quite
like being classed among the old folks,
replied rather crossly, " I should enjoy
going to the theatre as much as anybody
if it didn't always give me a headache.
Have you heard from Sir Christopher ? "

Oh, yes ; he's coming, and so is young-sinclair.
They'll be here in a few minutes,
I dare say."

The words were hardly out of his mouth
before the two men made their appearance,
having encountered one another upon the
stairs ; and perhaps, as they advanced,
there was nobody in the room who did not,
voluntarily or involuntarily, draw a comparison
between them, which could not but
be to the advantage of the younger.
Setting aside the question of personal
beauty, Lord Walter always looked like a
gentleman, whereas poor Sir Christopher
was essentially and unmistakably plebeian.
Sir Christopher, however, was in a good

humour ; and when he was in a good
humour he had the appearance of being a
hearty, jolly sort of little man.

After he had shaken hands with everybody,
he made straight for Miss Wilton ; and Lord
Walter, who was watching him with some
curiosity, noticed that she received him with
an encouraging smile. For some reason or
other which he did not trouble himself to
examine into, Lord Walter was rather
sorry to see this ; but, after all, it was no
business of his, nor had he any cause to
feel dissatisfied with his own lot when he
found himself placed at the dinner-table
between Miss Shaft and Mrs. Wilton.
The former took am early opportunity of
begging him to excuse the too free way in
which she had criticised his handiwork on
the occasion of their last meeting.

You must have thought me impertinent,"
she said ; " but you did ask me
ibr my opinion, you know ; and I gave it,
just as I should give my opinion of a
Rubens or a Holbein, if I were asked for

it. One may express one's opinion without
meaning to imply that it is of the smallest
consequence to anybody."

I was very glad to have your opinion,
and I shouldn't have cared to have anv
opinion but an honest one," answered Lord
Walter. " You might have been mistaken,
of course ; but you were not mistaken.
You will be relieved to hear that Elizabeth
of Hungary has been reduced to her
original elements. Perhaps Mrs. Lam-merrier
is right, and I should do well to
turn my attention to executing busts of
living celebrities. Would Sir Christopher
Shearman give me an order, do j^ou
think?"

I doubt it. Nobody can want to have
a bust of himself, and "

And nobody could want to have a bust
of Sir Christopher," suggested Lord Walter,
finishing the sentence for her. '' Possibly
not just at present ; but times may change.
Has he decided to take Brampton Priory?"

A slight cloud passed over Norma's face.

but lie answered cheerfully, " Yes ; he
has taken the place, and I am very glad of
it. It will make papa feel much easier,
and I think he is as good a tenant as we
could expect to find."

He has the means of paying his rent,
by all accounts. And when Miss Wilton
becomes Lady Shearman will she look after
your poor people ? "

It so happened that Norma had some
private misgivings upon that point ; but to
these she refrained from giving utterance,
merely observing that Madge was not Lady
Shearman yet.

But she will be ? " he persisted.

I don't know. Very likely she herself
doesn't know."

She will be extremely foolish if she
refuses him : millionaires don't grow on
every bush."

But Norma was evidently not much
inclined to discuss her friend ; and after a
few more leading observations which met
with no response, he ceased to speculate

about Madge and her destinies, and devoted
himself to a study nearer at hand, which
was surely a more interesting one. Pretty
little selfish girls can hardly be accounted
rare specimens of humanity : what is
really rare is to find a young, beautiful,
and attractive woman, whose notion of
happiness is to make others happy ; and
although some of Miss Shaft's methods
of achieving this end seemed to him unlikely
to meet with any success worth
speaking of,- he admired a faith and enthusiasm
which he was not able to share.

My daughter," said Mr. Shaft, passing
the claret to Sir Christopher, after the
ladies had left the room, " will be sure to
recommend lots of her proteges round about
Brampton to your notice ; but you mustn't
take what she says too literally. Norma
has a craze upon subjects of that kind. I
don't mean to say that the agricultural
labourer isn't badly enough off; but
whether you or she or anybody else can
make him better ois is another question."

Sir Christopher observed that in nine
cases out of ten a man who was badly off
had only himself to thank for it ; but to this
general proposition Mr. Shaft demurred.

Well, I don't know about that," said
he. " I'm badly off ; but I don't see how
I am to blame for the fall in the value of
land."

Of course not," agreed Sir Christopher ;
"but then you've done the sensible thing
by letting your place."

I think so," said Mr. Shaft ; " I think
it was the sensible thing to do."

And then he went on, in his usual communicative
way, to relate how he had
already augmented his modest fortune by
following the advice of his friend Baron
Lammergeier, " a shrewd fellow and a
first-rate man of business," He was still
enlarging upon this topic, Sir Christopher
listening to him with a somewhat sceptical
smile, when the butler came in to announce
that the carriage was at the door and that
the ladies were waiting.

There was a brief discussion in the hall
as to how the party should divide itself;
but, whatever the wishes of some members
of it may have been, the question hardly
admitted of any other solution than that
which was adopted. Mr. Shaft's carriage
bore away that gentleman and the three
ladies, while the two bachelors followed ina
hansom, deriving such consolation as
they might from tobacco. Lord Walter
had nothing to say to his companion, who,
for that matter, did not feel called upon to
make conversation for his benefit ; so the
two men smoked their cigarettes and maintained
an unbroken silence while they
were whirled along Piccadilly and Pall
Mall. It was not until they reached the
Strand that an incident occurred which
caused each of them to forget his determination
to ignore the other.

The Strand was thronged, as it always
is at that hour of the evening ; a steady
stream was setting in both directions ; but
the majority of the carriages, having de-vol.

I. 7

posited their occupants at the various
theatres, were returning westwards ; and
one of them, wheeling round somewhat too
suddenly, came into violent collision with
Mr. Shaft's landau. The wheels became
locked, the horses began plunging, and to
the two spectators in the rear it looked as
though the time had come to rescue the
ladies from a position of some possible
danger.

By George, they'll be over in another
minute ! " exclaimed Sir Christopher,
throwing open the doors of the hansom
and jumping out.

He was followed at once by Lord Walter;
but if their intention was to hold up Mr.
Shaft's swaying equipage until the ladies
should have been got out of it, they were
a little bit too late. The carriage stood
upon two wheels for a second and then
slowly turned over on its side with a crash
and an unpleasant sound of breaking glass.

Of course a crowd immediately collected ;
two policemen appeared upon the scene.

and the cause of the disaster was provisionally
arrested, loudly protesting his
absolute innocence; but neither Lord
Walter nor Sir Christopher paid any heed
to these details. Their business was to
extricate their hapless friends ; and perhaps
no one who has not tried it would believe
how difficult it is to haul four people out
of an overturned carriage. However, the
task was accomplished. First Mr. Shaft,
then Madge, and then Norma were helped
to scramble through the open door ; and a
great relief it was to the rescuers to hear
that none of them were hurt.

Then from the dark interior issued forth
a lamentable voice, which said, " I am not
killed ; but I am horribly bruised, and Mr.
Shaft has been standing on my head for
five minutes'*

I give you my word of honour," exclaimed
poor Mr. Shaft, aghast, " that I
did nothing of the sort. Good heavens,
what a thing to say ! I assure you I was
most careful "

But nobody took any notice of his
asseverations, except Norma, who patted
him on the shoulder and consoled him,
and presently Mrs. Wilton was lifted out
on to the pavement, somewhat dishevelled
and much agitated, but apparently not
otherwise the worse for her adventure.
As the whole party were within a few
yards of the Frivolity Theatre, whither
they had been bound, it seemed best to
adjourn thither and ascertain the extent
of the damage sustained ; and this proved
to be so trifling that Madge, for one,
declared herself quite ready to go in and
witness the performance. But Mrs. Wilton,
for whom a chair had been brought, would
not hear of such a thing. Nobody but
Madge, she said, would have been unfeeling
enough to propose it. Perhaps somebody
would be so good as to call a cab for her.

Norma, seeing a suspicion of tears in
Madge's eyes, came to the rescue. " If one
of the gentlemen would take Mrs. Wilton
home," she suggested, '■ the rest of us

might as well see the play, since we are
here."

Lord Walter had a moment of apprehension,
which however was alleviated by the
considerate action of Mr. Shaft.

I'll take you home, Mrs. Wilton," said
the old gentleman. " I really didn't stand
on your head, you know ; but never mind
that. I'll see that you're made comfortable,
and then I can come back and join
the young ones."

So Mr. Shaft and Mrs. Wilton drove
off in a four-wheeled cab together ; and
Norma and Madge took their places in the
stalls, attended by their two cavaliers and
unaccompanied by any vestige of a
chaperon.

What fun ! " whispered the latter to
the former. " If anybody sees us, we shall
get a nice character, shan't we ? "

"I didn't think of that," answered
Norma a little anxiously. *' Fortunately,
papa will be here before very long."

CHAPTER YI.

AT THE PLAY.

Sir Christopher marched into the theatre
first, bearing the tickets ; Madge followed
him ; then came Lord Walter, and then
Norma. It was doubtless due to the
latter's desire to make everybody comfortable
that this order of precedence was
observed, and although it might have been
more prudent to allow Lord Walter to
bring up the rear, she may be excused for
having neglected a precaution which, under
all the circumstances, seemed to be superfluous.
Throughout the evening Madge
had behaved as well as possible ; with Sir
Christopher she had been amiability itself ;
she had taken no notice at all of the handsome
young sculptor, and it was surely

improbable that she would begin flirting
with him now that her legitimate suitor
was seated so close to her.

Madge Wilton, however, was given to
the doing of improbable things. No
sooner had she taken her place than she
put up a large fan, and, under cover of
that shield, bent her pretty little head
sideways towards her right-hand neighbour.
The orchestra was in full blast, so
that Sir Christopher could not catch what
she said ; though this was not from any
lack of effort on his part to do so. After
all, her speech, if he had heard it, was not
one to which he could very reasonably
have objected.

Have you got such a thing as a spare
pocket-handkerchief about you ? " she whispered.
" I didn't want to mention it while
mamma was there, or she would have
insisted upon my going home with her,
but I cut my arm when the carriage was
upset, and it won't stop bleeding."

She drew aside the wrap which she had

kept over her right arm, and displayed,
just above the wrist, a blood-stained
bandage formed out of one of those absurd
combinations of cambric and lace upon
which ladies are supposed to be able to
blow their noses after a certain hour of the
evening. Whether or not it could ever
have been used for such a purpose, it was
manifestly insufficient for that to which it
had now been put, and the satin lining of
Miss Wilton's dolman had suffered.

Lord Walter was much distressed, and
was also filled with admiration for the
courage of the sufferer. " How plucky of
you to keep quiet ! " he exclaimed. " My
handkerchief is very much at your service,
of course ; but really I think you had
better go home. You can come and see
this stupid piece any evening, and you
ought to have that cut seen to. There
may be some broken glass in it."

Oh no, there isn't, and if there is, I
can wash it out before I go to bed.
Please don't make a fuss, or we shall have

Sir Christopher jumping up and asking
whether there is a surgeon in the audience.
If you can stop the bleeding I shall be all
right."

She delivered over her injured arm to
him as she spoke, and he was soon able to
satisfy himself that the wound was not a
serious one. Sir Christopher, on the other
side of the fan, could not see what was
taking place ; but Norma, of course, did,
and would have made some remark, had
she not been checked by an imploring
grimace from Madge. Lord Walter drew
a knife, containing a pair of scissors, from
his pocket, and with these he proceeded as
noiselessly as possible to cut his handkerchief
into strips, which he folded tightly
round the white arm abandoned to him.
It took him some little time to do this,
because bandaging is a scientific operation
upon which great care ought always to be
bestowed ; and besides, he did not quite
know how to finish off his handiwork until
Norma handed him a pin.

Meanwhile the curtain had risen, and
the whole attention of the patient was
concentrated upon the stage, where a bevy
of scantily arrayed shepherdesses were
skipping about in time to a chorus sung
by an equal number of knock-kneed shepherds.
She appeared to be quite oblivious
of her neighbour, and did not distract him
from his duties by answering when he
asked her whether he was hurting her.
And how could a sculptor and anatomist
help noticing the perfect outline and
moulding of the arm which had been
entrusted to him and the smoothness and
whiteness of the skin ? And if he lingered
more than he need have done over his
simple task, and if, when he was obliged
to acknowledge it finished, he was conscious
of a certain disturbance of his
mental balance, that was nothing more
than might have been foreseen.

It was, at all events, understood by
Norma Shaft, who sighed and looked
away and tried to interest herself in the

oaiiibols of the actors. Norma, knowing"
very well what it all meant, was provoked
and rather impatient, for once, with Madge,
whose raancBuvres struck her as being both
transparent and uncalled for. What was
the good of it ? she wondered. If any
amateur surgery was required, it would
have been so simple to apply to Sir
Christopher ! What pleasure could any
girl find, in laying siege to the heart of a
man whom she had no intention of marrying
? Probably Madge could not have
answered the question ; but to the fact
that there 7j^as a pleasure in so doing she
could have testified with all the certainty
engendered by repeated personal experience.
The genuine flirt, like the true poet,
is born, not made, and although, by dint
of painstaking perseverance, a good many
ladies contrive to acquire the art after a
fashion, they seldom attain to such proficiency
in it as Madge Wilton possessed.

That unscrupulous young woman, on
being informed that the binding up of her

wound was completed, only whispered,
Thank you so much ! " — which, to be
sure, was not a great deal to say ; but she
accompanied this acknowledgment of the
service rendered to her by a glance which,
half-timid though it was, was extremely
expressive ; and the simple truth is that,
during the remainder of the first act, Lord
Walter's mind was chiefly busied with
conjectures as to what it expressed. She
neither spoke to him nor looked at him
again until the curtain fell ; to Sir Christopher's
frequent remarks she responded
only by a nod or a murmur ; it was scarcely
possible to doubt that she was enjoying
herself as much as a schoolboy at a
pantomime, and if she was aware that
Lord Walter was admiringly studying her
profile, she did not seem to be aware of it.
But as soon as she was released from the
spell cast over her by the play and the
players, she allowed him to have a view of
her full face and showed every disposition
to converse.

Isn't it delightful ! " she exclaimed.

Is it ? " he returned, laughing. " Yes ;
it's delightful if you think so. Everything
is what we think it is."

"• But don't you think so ? " she asked.
I suppose you don't ; but I wish you
did ! One feels as if one ought to be
ashamed of liking things which other
people find a bore."

As far as that goes, the other people
ought to be ashamed of being bored,
perhaps. Not that I am bored. I don't
particularly care about the piece to-night,
because I never care much for burlesques
and I have seen this one before ; but if it
makes you more comfortable to know that
your neighbours are happy, you can set
your mind at ease so far as one of them is
concerned."

T cannot understand why you should
be happy, sitting in a hot theatre and
looking on at a play which doesn't amuse
you," said Madge, gravely.

Can't you ? " he returned. " Then I'm
afraid I can't explain."

After which their eyes met and they
both laughed.

All this Norma saw and heard. Also,
by bending forward a little, she could see
that Sir Christopher was beginning to look
ominously sulky, and it crossed her mind
that she had exercised a somewhat mistaken
benevolence in removing Madge from her
mother's supervision. " I wonder," she
thought, " whether we might not effect a
change of places when papa comes. I
wish he would come ! "

At this moment somebody who was not
Mr. Shaft made his way along the row of
stalls and seated himself in the unoccupied
one by Norma's elbow. The new-comer
was a lank and sallow young man. His
black hair, which was thick and curly and
which he wore somewhat longer than is
customary in these days, was brushed back
behind a pair of prominent ears ; he was
clean-shaven, and, being of so dark a complexion,
had a bluish tinge about that part
of his face where his beard ought to have

been. His admirers, of whom, like everybody
else in the world, he possessed a few,
said that he had fine eyes. He had,
besides, a nose of noble dimensions and a
good many square inches of forehead. His
mouth was hire and his lips were full ; as
for his chin, it was going to be a double
one before long, but was as yet in an early
stage of development.

He said, in a deliberate, low-pitched
voice — a voice which anybody would have
sworn to in the dark as belonging to a
perfectly self-satisfied being —

How do you do. Miss Shaft ? I saw
you from afar and came to pay my respects.
I didn't expect to find you patronizing
burlesque."

How do you do, Mr. Morley ? " returned
Norma. " I might say the same thing of
you, might I not ? Surely your contempt
for this sort of thing must be more profound
than mine."

"As a dramatic representation," answered
Mr. Morley placidly, " it is, of course.

beneath contempt ; but the whole scene is
in a manner instructive, and the mere fact
of the theatre being crowded is typical of
modern life under one of its aspects. I
feel bound to study all the aspects of
modern life."

Do you ? " said Norma. " Why ? "

Now this was rather an unkind speech
to make, and it was not at all like Norma
Shaft to make it. All that can be pleaded
on her behalf is that asses are more
irritating at some moments than at others.

Mr. Morley looked surprised and a trifle
pained. " I thought you knew," said he,
'"• that I dabble a little in literature. As a
contributor to certain reviews, and as a
humble student of the world and of men,
I am often compelled to look on at what
to me personally is distasteful."

^' To which of the reviews do you contribute
? "

I must ask you," returned Mr. Morley,
with a smile, " to excuse me from answering
that question. Hitherto I have preferred

to preserve my incognito, and
perhaps for the present I had better continue
to do so."

An unfriendly critic might have surmised
that if Mr. Morley had been on the
staff of any review of the first class, he
would have displayed less modesty ; but
Norma was not unfriendly ; she was only
disinclined to be bothered with this country
neighbour, whom she had not anticipated
meeting in London.

Are you up in town for any time ? "
she asked presently. " I hope you left
your mother quite well ? "

Quite well, thank you. I am up for
the season, like other people : one is more
or less obliged to do as other people do.
Isn't that Miss Wilton ? "

He bent forward and bowed to Madge,
who acknowledged his salutation by a
very slight bend of the head and went on
talking to Lord Walter. Perhaps it may
have been this insufficient recognition that
caused Mr. Morley to remark —

VOL. I. 8

I hear that poor little girl is to be
married to your new tenant, Sir Christopher
Shearman, who, I see, is sitting beyond
her. It seems a melancholy fate ; but I
suppose we most of us get the fate that we
deserve."

You must have been misinformed,"
said Norma ; " Madge is not engaged to
Sir Christopher. When she is, it will be
time enough for you to begin pitying
her — though I don't know why you
should."

The young man with the curly black
hair was not easily snubbed. He said,
My dear Miss Shaft, whenever I think
of you I think of Wordsworth's

Perfect woman, nobly plann'd,
To warn, to comfort and command ;
And yet a spirit still, and bright
With something of an angel-light.'

Being what you are, you naturally and
inevitably see what is good in others and
are slow to detect what is evil ; but I
should think that even you would be

puzzled to point out much good in Sir
Christopher Shearman."

'' Why do you say that ? "

Because it is the truth. He shoots, he
hunts, he eats and drinks — is there anything
more to be said about him ? I can't
tell you how grieved I was when I heard
that he was to replace you at Brampton."

At any rate, he is a man," returned
Norma, who was unusually exasperated.

But she might as well have attempted to
kill an alligator with a pea-shooter as to
disconcert her companion. Mr. Morley
rejoined placidly, " I believe he is a good
shot, if that is what you mean ; but we do
not belong to a community of savages.
In our day and in our country a man must
possess higher qualifications than those of
a North American Indian before he can be
called truly manly."

In our day and in our country there area
good many men who cannot possibly be
so described, if tried by any conceivable
test, and Mr. Basil Morley was one of

these. Nevertheless, Norma had a sneaking
kindness for the poor creature. She
knew that he was good to his old mother,
with whom he lived ; he had helped her,
too, in providing material comforts for her
sick people, and had generously refrained
from disturbing their faith in the creed of
Christianity, which he himself had outgrown.
Moreover, almost everybody detested
him ; and that in itself constituted
a sort of claim upon her indulgence. So,
as Mr. Shaft had not appeared when the
curtain rose again, she endured his company
throughout the second act and submitted
with a good grace to the trite
reflections with which it pleased him to
favour her from time to time.

What may have helped her to be tolerant
was that her attention was really engaged
elsewhere. Lord Walter and Madge
Wilton continued to whisper together,
notwithstanding the highly entertaining
spectacle which was provided for them upon
the stage ; nor could there be any question

as to the effect produced by their conduct
upon the gentleman of whom Mr. Morley
had spoken so disparagingly. Immediately
upon the conclusion of the second act Sir
Christopher charged out, muttering something,
as he passed, about smoking a
cigarette outside and having had enough
of this rot; and hardly had he vanished
when Mr. Shaft entered.

Mr. Shaft, as his habit was, affected to
have arrived in breathless haste. " Sorry
to have been so long," he said ; " but I
had to take Mrs. Wilton home and see
that she had a glass of wine, and then I
thought I might as well find out whether
the horses or John had been damaged.
John tumbled off the box and declares he
is badly shaken ; but he doesn't look much
the worse. Hullo, Morley ! Attracted upto
the metropolis, like the rest of the
unemployed, eh ? "

I am seldom at a loss for employment,"
replied Mr. Morley, with a superior sort of
smile ; " but a change of scene is sometimes

desirable, I think. I am afraid I am
occupying your place."

Not at all, my dear fellow ; I don't
want to sit beside my own daughter, thank
you ; I can do that at home. Stay where
you are, and I'll go and talk to my friend
Miss Madge."

Thus it came to pass that when, at the
expiration of a few minutes. Sir Christopher
returned, Mr. Morley had to retire. Before
saying good night, however, he took
Norma's address and was so kind as to
say that he would look in upon her some
day soon.

Sir Christopher, who was in a very
naughty temper, plumped down into the
vacated stall, and said gruffly, " Who's
that puppy ? "

You will find out before you have
been at Brampton long," answered Norma.
In our part of the world Mr. Morley
represents Intellect. The rest of us
haven't very much to boast of in that way ;
so that we are naturally proud of him,

although we think he gives himself undue

airs."

The airs are evident enough," growled
Sir Christopher. " Does one have to be
acquainted with him long to discover the
intellect ? "

** Oh, not very long, as a rule. If he
himself doesn't tell you what services he
has rendered to contemporary literature,
his mother will. I shall be curious to
hear what you think of your neighbours.
You will like most of them, I hope ; but
there are some oddities among them."

If Miss Shaft thought that she was
going to steer clear of dangerous topics in
this way she did not know her man. Out
of the fulness of Sir Christopher's heart
his mouth always spoke, and his heart just
now was full of indignation against Madge
Wilton. " What a flirt that girl is ? " he
exclaimed abruptly. " I hate flirts."

I don't think you hate Madge, do
you ? " asked Norma gently. " If you do,
you must be rather unjust and rather unreasonable.

She talked to you all through
dinner : if she had talked to nobody
else for the rest of the evening, perhaps
Lord Walter might have called her a
flirt."

She didn't flirt with me, and she is
flirting with him," declared Sir Christopher
doggedly. " Pray don't suppose that I am
making any complaint ; she is at liberty to
please herself. All I say is that I hate
a flirt, and I presume I've a right to my
own taste."

There was no disputing that ; and
Norma quite understood the implied threat.
The only question was whether it was
worth while to stroke this bear down.
Upon the whole, she believed that it was ;
so, while the play was being brought to
an end, she exerted herself with that intention,
and was moderately successful. Sir
Christopher, when he said good night to
the ladies at the door of the theatre, was
not without hope that Madge's behaviour
might be explained by an hypothesis rather

flattering than otherwise to his self-esteem.
He had not declared himself yet, and of
course it was conceivable that she might
wish to make him declare himself; and
some colour was lent to this pleasing
surmise by the manner in which she took
leave of him.

*' Still cross ? " she whispered, as she
gave him her hand, and then, without
waiting for an answer, withdrew into the
recesses of the cab which Mr. Shaft had
called.

But Lord Walter, as Madge may have
been aware, did not hear these last words,
being occupied at the moment in telling
Norma how much he had enjoyed his
evening.

CHAPTER Iii.

NORMA HAS A BAD TIME OF IT.

It was discovered a very long time ago
that misfortunes never come singly ; and
when Norma Shaft found out, on the
morning after her visit to the theatre, that
she had lost a valuable old fan to which
she was much attached, she felt pretty sure
that she had an unlucky day before her.
It is true that she had got out of bed in
low spirits, which was an unusual thing
with her ; but whether this circumstance
was or was not in any degree accountable
for her gloomy anticipations, the latter
were speedily verified. No sooner had she
entered the breakfast-room than Mr. Shaft
bustled in from his study, looking worried

and perturbed, and began to grumble at
the food set before him.

"Upon my word, Norma, I think you
might see that that woman provides us
with something fit to eat ! I'm not over-particular,
as you know ; but I do draw
the line at stale fish."

Norma, after apologizing for the fish,
which was not stale, rang the bell and
ordered something else, though she knew
that her father would not eat it when it
came. Merely by way of making conversation,
she mentioned her loss ; whereupon
Mr. Shaft declared that it served
her right for being so careless of her
property.

I'm not careless of mine, goodness
knows ! " he observed, scratching his head
ruefully ; " but I lose it, all the same.
From what I hear this morning, I think
I may say good-bye to three thousand
pounds. This is what comes of trusting
to lying prospectuses, you see."

It might have been imagined from his

tone that Norma had been guilty of that
foolish credulity ; although, as a matter of
fact, no one could have had a more holy
horror of speculation than she. This was
neither the first nor the second time that
her father had lost money through trying
to gain it, and she knew enough of him
to be aware that he was incorrigible.
Therefore she wisely abstained from remonstrances
which would only have annoyed
him ; and presently, like the grey-headed
child that he was, he remembered having
spoken crossly to her and begged her
pardon.

I'm sorry I said the fish was bad ; I've
no doubt it's all right. But when one has
just dropped three thousand pounds, one
would swear that a salmon was tainted if
one had landed it with one's own rod an
hour ago. Well, well ! there's no good in
crying over spilt milk. I think I'll lookup
Lammergeier this morning ; if anybody
can advise me about what steps to take,
he is the man. Don't wait luncheon forme

; I'll get something to eat in the
City."

So Mr. Shaft left the house in a
tolerably cheerful frame of mind, notwithstanding
the good reasons that he had
for considering himself unfortunate. But
Norma was not able to shake off her depression
so easily. Having pacified the
cook, who was naturally indignant at the
affront which had been put upon her, she
thought she would go and see a few of
those excellent people with whom she had
lately become associated in works of charity.
Possibly she was not in a fit mood for
appreciating the excellences and pardoning
the deficiencies of her fellow-workers ; but
it certainly did seem to her that these
good folks were more priggish, more unpractical,
and more self-satisfied than usual.

For first of all she had an interview
with a certain parson ; and a very worthy
and hard-working little parson he was,
with a round face and a pair of spectacles,
and a scrap of blue ribbon at his buttonhole.

Only lie was quite sure about everything,
as so many of them are, which made
him a little irritating at times. Just now
he was quite sure that drink is the origin
of all evil ; and that, after all, is a theory
which cannot be made to hold water by
the mere fact that its votaries have resolved
to swallow nothing stronger. He thought
it a sad pity that Norma was still given
to the use of intoxicating liquors ; he was
convinced that she would be a great deal
better and happier if she would renounce
them and induce those about her to do
likewise; and apparently his reason for
thinking so was that Tim O'Flaherty had
been beating his wife again and was even
now answering for his excesses before a
police-magistrate.

The little parson was not altogether in
the wrong ; but he was dictatorial and
provoking, and it was easy to foresee that
when poor Mrs. O'Flaherty returned from
the police-court she would meet with a
Job's comforter. Norma asked whether,

under all the circumstances, it would be
permissible to leave a small sum of money
for the benefit of that injured woman and
her children and was somewhat sharply
told that she ought to know better than to
propose such a thing. Then she received
instructions as to the performance of certain
tasks which she had undertaken, and went
her way.

Her next visit was to a building in the
same district which had recently been
hired as a Hall of Recreation for the behoof
of the inhabitants ; and here she found
Lady Adelaide Tomkinson, the leader and
president of the little society which had
taken it in hand. Lady Adelaide, a tall,
fair-haired and rather pretty woman, whose
style of attire recalled the aesthetic craze
of a few years ago, was totting up accounts
with the manager of the establishment, and
frankly admitted that she had got them
into a hopeless tangle.

One thing, however," said she, pushing
her books away with a sigh, " is quite

clear, and that is that we are not paying
our way. We have ceased to be a novelty,
and we don't seem to be a success. You
were not at the concert here last night,
were you. Miss Shaft ? "

No," answered Norma ; " I was at the
theatre."

I don't think one should take up a
work of this kind," said Lady Adelaide
rather severely, " unless one is prepared to
make some sacrifices in order to support it.
Naturally the people won't come to entertainments
which we don't think good
enough to patronize ourselves."

*were you here last night?" Norma
ventured to inquire.

"It was quite impossible for me to be
here. Mr. Tomkinson had asked some
political people to dinner and I was
obliged to entertain them. A married
woman, of course, has home duties which
she can't neglect, and which are by no
means always pleasures, I can assure you.
Please don't think that I mean to scold

you, Miss Shaft ; only it seems that none
of us were here last night except the performers,
and you can understand how discouraging
that must be to the audience."

Lady Adelaide added, as she rose —
Since you have come, Miss Shaft, it
would be very kind of you if you would
go through these accounts. I never had
any head for figures, and I must be at home
before luncheon-time."

So Norma spent half an hour in auditing
and correcting Lady Adelaide's sums in
addition, and, as the result of her labours,
was able to declare a considerable deficit.
The manager, a decent, middle-aged man,
with an occasional twinkle in the corner
of his eye, had not much comfort to offer
her.

You see, i'm," said he, " it takes
something powerful in the way of an
attraction to compete with beer. Then
there's another thing you've got to contend
against, and that is that a many of these
people is downright 'angry. Now, there's

VOL. I. 9

a good deal as you and me might enjoy
which we couldn't seem to relish upon an
empty stomach, do you see, i'm ? "

Apparently this observer, who was not
without experience, was very much of
Lord Walter's opinion. Norma went
away with a rather heavy heart. What is
to be done with the thousands who are forever
hovering upon the verge of famine ?
Mansion House Funds, we are told, do
them little or no good ; to sanction a
fictitious demand for labour by means of
public works would be to insert the thin
end of a very formidable wedge ; to raise
the moral standard of the masses would bea
capital thing ; but then nobody seems to
know how to set about doing it.

Perhaps the very best plan that a farsighted
philanthropist could suggest would
be to put three-fourths of them to death.
If that impossible thing could be done, and
if equally impossible restrictions could be
imposed upon the increase of population,
posterity might have some chance. Meanwhile

individual effort appears to produce
no appreciable fruit, unless indeed it be to
the individuals themselves, who, let us
hope, reap a reward of some description or
other from the seed of their kind intentions.
Norma Shaft was far too sensible to be
discouraged by the comparative failure of
efforts from which she had never anticipated
any triumphant results. If upon
this occasion she was disposed to take an
unusually pessimistic view of things in
general, that was only because, as has been
related, things in general were unusually
vexatious. She thought them all over
after she had gone home and was eating
her solitary luncheon ; but, oddly enough,
she omitted to count among them one thing
which in reality annoyed her more than
the whole of the others together. She
foresaw that trouble would come of Madge's
unfortunate determination to flirt with
Lord Walter Sinclair ; only she said to
herself that, after all, it was no business of
hers, and that people who have made up

their minds to do foolish things are seldom
deterred from their folly by the intervention
of outsiders. She had gone upstairs
to the drawing-room, and was debating
whether she should or should not go and
inquire how Mrs. Wilton was after the
shock of the previous evening, when a
visitor was announced.

Mr. Morley followed his name into the
room very languidly. He had a way of
entering a room which of itself would have
sufficed to prejudice any unprejudiced
person against him ; but it must be assumed
that he was not aware of this. When he
had seated himself in the most comfortable
chair that he could find, he said, with a
slow, exasperating smile, " Miss Shaft, I
must plead guilty to an act of petty
larceny." He drew Norma's missing fan
from his pocket, and held it up. " Last
night," he continued, " I could not resist
the temptation to appropriate some trifle of
yours, which I might take home with me
and which would breathe to me of you ;

but when I examined this fan by daylight
and perceived its intrinsic value — perhaps
you don't know how really valuable it is ?
I felt that I must restore it to its owner ;
and so here I am. Will you forgive me ? "

'' Since you have brought it back, I will
forgive you, Mr. Morley," answered Norma,
half amused, half indignant ; " but I hope
you will not behave in such an idiotic way
again. That fan belonged to my grandmother,
and I know its value as well as
you do. I have already sent to the theatre
to inquire about it, and I have put an
advertisement in the papers ; so you see
you have caused a great deal of trouble
which might have been avoided. Another
time, if you want to have anything that
will breathe of me to you, perhaps you
will kindly mention it, and I will try to
oblige you. You might have had the loan
of my fan last night for the asking, instead
of making a pickpocket of yourself."

She was accustomed to Basil Morley 's
flowery speeches and thought him a harmless

sort of fool. That, however, was bono
means the view that Mr. Morley took
of himself. He was quite certain that he
was not a fool, and he would not at all
have liked to be stigmatized as harmless.

Ah," he sighed, " if I had only known
that ! But I didn't know it, and so I
yielded to my wicked inclinations. Well,
at any rate my offence has served its
purpose ; for it has been the means of
inspiring me."

*' Inspiring you? With what?" inquired
Norma, rather imprudently.

'' Oh, with a poor enough thing. Sometimes
when I am in the mood for it, I
knock off a sonnet ; but as often as not I
burn what I have written. Latterly I have
been thinking that I may perhaps bring
out a volume of the few which I have kept
and which seem to me to have some merit.
This one is scarcely worthy of your notice ;
still, if you really wish to hear it "

Norma was as innocent of having expressed
any such wish as she was of having

experienced it ; but she had not the requisite
hardness of heart to silence her visitor, who
at once produced a sheet of paper, remarking,
" I have called it ' To My Lady's
Fan.' " Then he cleared his voice and
started —

Oh, call it not a theft that made thee mine t
For thou and I are hers, and she is ours,
And in that fellow-slavery divine

We are each other's. Through the sleepless
hours
Of this sweet summer night I'll sing to thee.
And thou "

Here the poet was suddenly interrupted
by a peal of irrepressible laughter.

I beg your pardon," said Norma,
speaking indistinctly from behind the
pocket-handkerchief with which she was
trying in vain to stifle her merriment ;
"but I really couldn't help it. When I
hear things described I always picture them
to myself, and the idea of your sitting up
all night, with an open fan before you, and
singing to it was rather comical, wasn't
it ? I didn't mean to laugh at the sonnet,

which I am sure is very pretty. Please
go on."

But Mr. Morley was not to be appeased.
He folded up the paper and put it away,
observing coldly, " You will hardly expect
me to make myself ridiculous by reading
any farther. Whatever the sonnet may
have been worth, you have quite destroyed
its value in my eyes, and I shall tear it upas
soon as I get home. At the same time,
I may perhaps be permitted to point out
that I made use of the verb to sing in a
poetical, not in a musical sense. If it is
so very laughable to indite a sonnet to an
inanimate object, I have at least the consolation
of knowing that greater poets than
I have done the same thing and that I am
derided in tolerably good company."

To this dignified rebuke Norma returned
no immediate reply. When she did speak,
it was to say, "1 think, if I could write
poetry, I wouldn't waste my time in
addressing verses to anybody's fan. There
are so many other subjects which a man of

genius might take up, and some of them
haven't been touched yet."

Are there ? " asked Mr. Morley, somewhat
mollified by being called a man of
genius. " I should be very glad to hear of
them. My own belief is that every conceivable
poetical idea has been worn threadbare
long ago."

'• I was thinking of the poverty and
misery of London. A poem which described
that might do some good and
couldn't very well help being pathetic.
But as yet no poet seems to have thought
it worth more than a passing allusion."

Well, we have had ' The Song of the
Shirt,' you know. Of course that is not
poetry of a high class ; still, in its own
way, it has a certain value. You, I know,
are greatly interested in the unhappy lot
of the masses, and whatever interests you
interests me. But I must confess that I
should have difficulty in writing a poem
upon such a theme. All that is squalid
and mean and ugly distresses and disgusts

me. I suppose that is the inevitable failing
of the poetic temperament."

He looked so blandly self-complacent, he
was so perfectly unconscious of his own
absurdity, that Norma could not be angry
with him. She only remarked, " You
might put your distress and disgust into
rhyme, might you not ? The more strongly
you felt them the greater your success
would be, I should think."

Mr. Morley smiled. "Ah, but I don't
covet success," he rejoined. " When one
sees who the successful people are, one
really doesn't feel very anxious to be
included among them. My ambition is
simply to be appreciated by a few — a
select few."

Norma was wondering whether it would
be very unkind to disappoint him by
omitting to ask who the select few might
be, when, to her relief, a second visitor was
shown into the room.

At the name of "Miss Travers" Mr.
Morley made a grimace and heaved an

impatient sigh ; but Norma jumped up and
stepped forward with outstretched hands
to welcome a lady who was perhaps the
most staunch friend that she had in the
world.

CHAPTER Viii.

OLD NELL.

Throughout Stourshire, and it might
almost be said throughout England, so far
as a certain section of society is concerned,
Miss Travers was well known and deservedly
popular. She rode straight to
hounds ; she was an admitted authority on
the training and treatment of horses and
dogs ; she had a kindly, honest disposition ;
she was in the habit of saying what she
thought, and she feared neither man nor
woman in the world. These attributes,
taken in conjunction with the circumstances
that she was comfortably off and was a
gentlewoman by birth, had earned for hera
large circle of friends. " Old Nell," as

she was generally called, was a frequent
and welcome guest at country houses ; her
towering form and her good-humoured,
ugly face were to be seen everywhere
where smart people are to be seen in
London during the early part of the
summer, and to frequenters of Newmarket
her features were as familiar as those of
the stewards of the Jockey Club themselves.
The prefix of ' ' old " has, as everybody
knows, become more or less a term of
endearment. In a literal sense Miss
Travers could not be called old, though she
was certainly no longer young, being at
this time rather over forty years of age.
Plain she had always been ; and perhaps
it was because she was so perfectly well
aware of that fact that she did not think it
worth while to bestow as much attention
upon her personal appearance as women
usually do. " I take care to have good
boots," she was wont to say, " and I believe
my riding-habits fit me pretty well ; but as
for frocks, I can't bring myself to take

an interest in them. I leave that sort of
thing to my maid."

The result of this misplaced confidence
was that Miss Travers was often arrayed
in a combination of colours which grieved
sensitive souls like that of Basil Morley,
and that, when in the country, she wore
costumes designed rather with a view to
comfort and durability than in conformity
with the laws of prevailing fashion. For
these latter it may be surmised that she
herself, not her maid, was responsible.
She was in the country, off and on, for
three-fourths of the year. She had a small
property, inherited from her father, which
she managed with dexterity, and even, it
was said, with profit, farming a considerable
portion of it herself. Her house,
which was of moderate size, was large
enough to accommodate as many guests as
she cared to invite. The extensive stabling
which she had added to it had been built
under her personal supervision, and was
pronounced by competent judges to be in

all respects admirable. Amongst the poor
she was considered to be both just and
generous, while her richer neighbours had
that respect for her which it is natural to
feel for those who know exactly what you
are worth and treat you accordingly. Miss
Travers was strongly of opinion (and
she never disguised her opinions) that
Norma Shaft was worth all the other
inhabitants of Stourshire put together. In
Norma she recognized, if not precisely a
kindred spirit, yet one whose qualities were
such as to command her sympathy and
admiration ; and it was therefore not
surprising that she had heard with consternation
that Brampton Priory was about
to pass into other hands. Her first words
bore reference to this melancholy news.

My dear creature," she exclaimed, " if
you want to see a dejected and disconsolate
woman, here you are ! I suppose it's no
fault of yours; but as for Mr. Shaft, I
can't forgive him, and he had better keep
out of my reach for some time to come.

As if people had any business to go letting
their houses to the first ironmonger that
turns up ! Not that the case would have
been much improved if he had let his house
to the Prince of Wales. Brampton ought
never to have been let at all, and that's all
about it."

But necessity has no law," observed
Norma. " When one can't afford to live
at home one must go away, and I think
poor papa deserves some credit for putting
a good face upon it."

Anyhow, you don't deserve any for
taking his part, because you would do that,
whether he was right or wrong. Don't
tell me he can't afford to live at home ; he
could afford it well enough if he chose. I
look upon him as a selfish and foolish old
man, and I shall tell him so the very first
time that I see him."

I am quite sure you will," said Norma,
laughing ; " but unfortunately no rude
speeches can cancel the lease of Brampton."

If they could," observed Mr. Morley,

I should not shrink from uttering a few
myself. The end would justify the means."

"Oh, that's you, is it?" said Miss
Travers. "I thought I noticed a disagreeable
smell of patchouli. How do you
do ? What has brought you to London ? "

Is not London large enough to hold us
both, Miss Travers?" inquired the poet,
with an unfriendly sort of smile. " As for
patchouli, I may truly say that I have
never used such a brutal scent in my life,
and that I would die rather than use it."

Well, I won't swear to its being
patchouli ; but it's something unpleasant.
Pomatum, I dare say. Now that you are
in London why don't you take the opportunity
to have your hair cut ? You have
no idea how much more like a respectable
being you would look if you were to have
that wiry black mat removed from the back
of your head."

"Don't you think. Miss Travers," suggested
Mr. Morley sweetly, " that we had
better steer clear of personal criticism ? It

VOL. I. 10

is a game at which two can play, and
perhaps, if I were rude enough to do it, I
might offer some advice to you which
would not he altogether devoid of excuse."

My good man, you know as well as I
do that you would never have the pluck.
You are dying to say something rude at
the present moment ; but you can't get
beyond insinuations, you see, and I suspect
that your poor little heart is fluttering like
a bird's at your audacity in having gone
even so far."

' Nell 1 " remonstrated Norma in a
whisper, as Mr. Morley slowly rose and
took up his hat.

But Miss Travers only burst out laughing.
" Are you going, Mr. Morley ? " she
asked. " Well, good-bye then, and don't
bear malice. I'll take your word for it
that you never use patchouli."

Mr. Morley vouchsafed no reply. He
bent over Norma's hand with a grace
which was all his own, saying, " I hope I
may be allowed to come and see you

again, Miss Shaft," and so made for the
door.

Poor fellow ! " exclaimed Norma, as
soon as he was gone ; " I don't think you
ought to have insulted him as you did,
Nell, and now I am afraid he is really
offended."

'' Oh, he'll be all right," answered Miss
Travers easily. "I was obliged to be insulting,
or he would never have moved ; but I
dare say he'll forgive me. At all events,
we have got rid of him for the present.
How you can tolerate such a degraded
wretch I can't conceive."

"I don't dislike him so much as you
do," answered Norma. "He is conceited,
of course, but one must take into consideration
that he is an only child and that his
mother has spoilt him."

My dear Norma, he has been at a
public school and at college. I don't see
how you can hold poor old Mother Morley
responsible for anything except having
brought him into the world. However, he

isn't worth talking about ; I'd rather talk
about you. Are you going to live in
London ? What does your father mean todo?"


He hasn't said much about it as yet,"
answered Norma ; " but most likely we
shall establish ourselves here. We can
have a lease of this house, I believe, and
papa always seems to be able to find
occupation in London. He is a good deal
at his club; and then there is the City,
where he goes to meet his friend Baron
Lammergeier, and makes money — or loses
it."

Miss Travers shook her head. " He's a
great deal more likely to lose money than
make it if he trusts to that rascally little
Jew," said she. " I heard that he was
mixed up with Lammergeier, and I was
very sorry to hear it. The turf is bad
enough, goodness knows ; but, depend
Upon it, an honest man has a much better
chance upon the turf than he has in the
City."

How do you know ? " asked Norma,
smiling.

Because I've had a shy at both, my
dear ; that's how I know. Lammergeier
has enriched himself by robbing widows
and orphans."

"Isn't that what they say about all
these great financiers ? "

Yes : and it's generally true too. I
would make so bold as to sive your father
a word of warning, only it isn't over and
above likely that he would listen to me.
You haven't told me yet how London life
suits you. I needn't ask whether you
have begun slumming, because that's a
matter of course ; but I hope you are
going about a little and seeing people.
After all, one's own class has some slight
claim upon one's notice, though it isn't
clad in rags."

Norma mentioned a few of the houses to
which she had been invited. " But of
course we haven't a very large acquaintance,"
she said. " At least, I haven't ;

papa seems to know everybody. I suppose
that you have heard that the Wiltonss are
in town ? "

Miss Travers nodded. " The old woman
has taken the war-path," she remarked,
and I am told that she is upon the point
of scoring another big success. Your
tenant the ironmonger is a prize worth
securing."

But is he ? " asked Norma. " Do you
think he would make a good husband ? "

As good as most and better than some.
He isn't a gentleman, which is so far
against him ; but then there are plenty of
gentlemen who don't shine in a matrimonial
capacity. If Madge Wilton were my
daughter, I should consider him good
enough for her."

Perhaps you wouldn't, if she were your
daughter. And I am not at all sure that
she considers him so."

She won't be consulted, I take it ; but
if she were, it wouldn't make much difference.
That little girl is every bit as

worldly as her mother. She'll be a willing
victim, you'll see."

Norma said she was not convinced of
that. " Madge chooses to talk as if she
was worldly ; but a good deal of that is
pretence, I think. She has had no experience
; Sir Christopher is really the
only serious admirer she has ever had, and
1 don't see why she shouldn't fall in love
like other girls. If she were to meet
anybody whom she could really care
for "

She would cry and throw him over,
unless he had plenty of money," interrupted
Miss Travers. " She wouldn't cry very
long or very much. She has one of those
hearts which concentrate the whole wealth
of their affection upon a single person, and
in her case the person has already been
found. That person's name is Madge
Wilton."

Norma did not smile at this witticism ;
but after a minute or so of silence she
observed : *' Madge is only a child. Circumstances

may turn her into a woman any
day, and neither you nor I can tell for
certain how she will behave then."

I can form a guess ; the child is mother
to the woman. Who is he ? "

What do you mean ? '*

I mean, who is the man with whom
you think she has fallen in love ? "

Norma laughed a little. " Oh, I don't
know that she has fallen in love with anybody
; it is far more probable that he has
fallen in love with her, and as I introduced
them to each other, I have a sort of feeling
of responsibility. He is Lord Walter Sinclair,
whom I met a short time ago at
Mrs. Lammergeier's, after an interval of
I forget how many years. He was a
schoolboy once upon a time and now he is
a sculptor."

'soh, Walter Sinclair, is it? Then
there's no great harm done. Walter is a
good fellow in his way, but as cold as ice
and as prudent as an old woman. I defy
Madge to break his heart, and I know he

can't break hers, because she hasn't got one
to be broken."

Well, that's a way of talking ; I don't
believe in anybody's being heartless at her
age. And I think you are wrong about
Lord Walter. He isn't impetuous or
enthusiastic, perhaps ; but still waters run
deep."

*' I've known him all his life," said Miss
Travers, " if that has anything to do with
it.

There was a short pause, after which
Norma asked, " Is he well enough off to
marry, do you think ? "

No ; his father left him £15,000, and
his brother is a queer fish. He won't get
much from his brother, I suspect. Now,
Norma, if in the kindness of your heart
you contemplate encouraging a match
between those two, be advised by me and
drop it. You'll only get yourself into
trouble, and most assuredly no one will
thank you. Let them flirt if they want to
flirt ; Mrs. Wilton will very soon put a

stop to that. When and where do they
meet ? "

They are not in the habit of meeting
anywhere," answered Norma ; " but last
night he came to the theatre with us, and
he was certainly very attentive to Madge,
and Sir Christopher didn't like it."

Bless your innocence ! " exclaimed Miss
Travers ; " doesn't it occur to you that
Madge forced poor Walter to be attentive
to her precisely in order that Sir Christopher
oughtn't like it ? "

'^ Of course that may have been the
case ; but I don't think it was. It seemed
to me that they were both in earnest ; and
so

And so you are bent upon eggs

fc)

them on to commit an act of suicidal folly.
It's some comfort to know that you haven't
the remotest chance of succeeding."

But, as a result of further inquiry, it
transpired that Norma did not really
harbour the design attributed to her. She
said that, so far as she was able to form an

opinion, Lord Walter and Madge had not
very much in common, and the latter, she
was persuaded, would never be happy as a
poor man's wife. She confessed, however,
that she knew next to nothing about Lord
Walter, and, judging by the number ot
questions that she asked about his history,
his tastes, his friends and so forth, she was
very anxious to learn more.

Miss Travers replied to the best of her
ability, and was careful not to exhibit a
certain disquietude which gradually took
possession of her while she was being catechised.
But as she slowly descended the
staircase, after taking her leave, she
muttered under her breath, " Bother that
little minx ! Norma is too good for any
man ; still he is a gentleman and an honest
fellow, and it would be a great thing to
get her safely married and a comfortable
sum settled upon her before her father ruins
himself."

And when she stepped into the hansom
which was waiting for her at the door she

did not at once answer the man's question
of " Where to, mum ? " It was not until
the query had been twice repeated that she
responded by giving the address of a rising
young sculptor who dwelt in the vicinity
of Holland Park.

Now, at six o'clock in the evening, even
though the season be the height of summer,
sculptors have generally knocked off work
for the day ; but Lord Walter had the
habits of an amateur, and believed more or
less in the theory of inspiration. Thus it
not unfrequently happened to him to be
idle for a whole week, after which,
having been struck by a sudden idea, he
would labour for six or seven consecutive
hours to put it into execution ; and so it
was that he was putting the finishing
touches to a very charming little female
head when the head of Miss Travers,
which could not truthfully be called either
little or charming, was poked through the
doorway of his studio.

May I come in ? " asked the intruder.

Lord Walter started and turned round.
Then, with a smile of welcome upon his
lips and in his blue eyes, " My dear Nell,"
he exclaimed, *' of course you may ! I had
no idea you were in London. Will you
sit down here, or will you come into the
drawing-room and have a cup of tea ? I
possess a drawing-room."

Thanks, the studio is good enough forme,
and I've had my tea," answered Miss
Travers, taking a chair. " I trust that this
visit will not compromise you in the eyes
of your servants."

I don't think it will," answered Lord
Walter, laughing.

Nor do I ; though you might have had
the civility to say that you feared it would.
One is middle-aged and hard-featured ; but
one has one's feelings, all the same. You
don't seem to have a large collection of
wares on hand. What is that thing that
you're at work upon ? "

She rose and scrutinized the clay which
Lord Walter had been manipulating.

I haven't hit upon a name for it yet,"
he answered. " It's a girl's head."

"that much I am able to discern by the
light of my own unassisted intelligence.
And I may add that it's an uncommonly
poor likeness. Deprive Madge Wilton of
her eyes, and you won't find much left in
her worth looking at. Anyhow, you certainly
won't find a mouth or a nose like
those."

Lord Walter did not seem embarrassed.
And yet you recognize it at a glance," he
observed. " That looks as if it couldn't be
so very bad. Besides, who told you that
it was meant for a likeness ? Miss Wilton
gave me an idea, and I endeavoured to improve
upon it, that's all."

Miss Travers grunted. " Well," said
she, " there's no denying that you have
improved upon the original. Why you
should have selected such an original, when
you might have taken Norma Shaft
instead, I don't understand."

"You would if you were an artist, Nell.

For one thing, Miss Shaft couldn't be
improved upon. Then the habitual expression
of her face would be extremely difficult
to catch. It is constantly changing;
although the general effect that she produces
is that of a calm, self-reliant person.
Now Miss Wilton's habitual expression
isn't in the least difficult to catch — and I
think you must admit that I have caught
it."

Oh, you've caught it right enough ; the
question is whether it was worth catching.
However, I don't want to dictate to you
what models you should choose. After all,
if I had found you attempting to model a
likeness of Norma, I should have thought
it pretty cool of you."

Exactly so ; that's just what I should
have thought of myself. But there's
nothing divine about Miss Wilton, you see ;
one may take any liberties with her
features and expression and feel no compunction
at all when one has been found
out."

*^ Oh, that's it, is it ? And now let his
proceed to business. Have you, by any
chance, seen Loddondale lately ? "

Oddly enough, I have," answered Lord
Walter. " He honoured me with a call a
short time ago, and I can't recollect that
he has ever in the whole course of his
existence done such a thing before."

Then, my dear, good friend," exclaimed
Miss Travers earnestly, " for Heaven's
sake tell me whether Nugget is going to
win the Stourbridge Cup ! "

*' I don't know what you'll think of me
when I confess that I never asked. I was
not personally interested, because I don't
bet, and I couldn't foresee that I should be
consulted by you. But if I had asked, I
shouldn't have been answered."

Probably not ; but I thought something
might have leaked out in the course
of conversation. Wasn't he brotherly
enough to give you a single tip ? "

He was not. I doubt whether he
would consider it any part of his duty asa

brother to give me information about his
horses. As a matter of fact, we never
mentioned racing at all."

^' Never mentioned racing ! " ejaculated
Miss Travers incredulously. '' Then v^hat
in the name of goodness did you talk
about ? I don't see how anybody could be
five minutes in Loddondale's company
without mentioning racing."

Well, we had family affairs to discuss ;
we hadn't met since my poor old father
died. And then Loddondale gave me his
notions about the sculptor's art."

** They must have been worth listening
to, I should think. No allusion to the
Newmarket July, or San down, or Goods
? "

Not the faintest, I am sorry to say."

Miss Travers glanced at her watch and
rose. " Under those circumstances," she
remarked, '' I may as well take myself off.
I'm sorry you don't think it worth while
to profit by your relationship to a man who
owns some of the best horses in England."

TOL. I. 11

I'm sorry you think it worth your
while to back two-j^ear-olds about whom
nothing is known," returned Lord Walter,
laughing. "Nugget may turn out a
marvellous performer; as far as I am
aware, he has scarcely been tried yet. But
I do recollect the fact that his sire was a
roarer."

Now, my dear Walter," said Miss
Travers, "you mind your own business
and leave me to mind mine. If you never
make a greater fool of yourself than I have
done hitherto, you'll get on pretty well."

She moved towards the door, but paused
before she reached it and added, as an
afterthought, " Well, if I were you, I
should destroy that head. Sir Christopher
Shearman is one of those ill-bred people
who are apt to kick up a row if their
wives' features are delivered over to the
public in an unauthorized edition, and of
course you know that they are going io
marry him to Madge."

Is that quite settled ? "

It isn't announced, but I believe it's
settled. He is willing ; so is Mrs. Wilton ;
and Madge conceals under a thin veil of
unreasonableness one of the most reasonable
dispositions that any mother could
wish to have to deal with. You aren't
smitten with her, are you? I should be
sorry for you if you were. I shouldn't be
so sorry for you if you were smitten with
Norma Shaft ; though of course Norma
would never look at you."

I should have thought that in that case
you might have found some pity for the
victim of a hopeless attachment."

No ; because it is good for everybody
to have a high ideal, however unattainable
it may be. If you see Loddondale again,
try to find out something about Nugget,
will you ? I'm a busy woman, and I've
wasted my time upon a fruitless errand
this afternoon. Good-bye."

CHAPTER IX.

LORD WALTER BUYS A BOX.

Lord Walter was not ungrateful to his
old friend Nell Travers for having come
out all the way to Holland Park to see
him. She meant kindly, no doubt, and
her counsel, so far as it went, was excellent
; only it really wasn't needed. He
said to himself, as he stood gazing at the
little head which had so unmistakable a
look of Madge Wilton, that he was quite
sure it wasn't needed. One has fancies ;
everybody has fancies from time to time.
They serve to brighten the monotony of
existence, and they are absolutely harmless,
so long as those who harbour them are
careful not to lose their heads. Now if
there was one thing about which Lord

Walter was more positive than another, it
was that he was never in any danger of
losing his head. He was just as little
likely to lose his heart. If he had known
that he had been described a short time
previously as being as cold as ice, he would
have been rather pleased than otherwise.
He knew that in reality he was not so ;
but it would have been quite satisfactory
to him that others should think him so,
because that would be evidence that he
was able to keep his emotions under control.


That his emotions could hurry him into
anything so ridiculous as a passion for
Madge Wilton he had no fear at all. He
flattered himself that he knew a little
about feminine character, and hers was a
very easy one to read. She was honestly,
childishly selfish ; her chief anxiety was to
get as much amusement as she could out
of a sad world ; probably her powers of
resistance were slight, and she would yield
to maternal or other pressure rather than

have a fuss about anything. She would
doubtless end by marrying Sir Christopher ;
and then — well, what would happen then
was rather difficult to predict ; but the
chances were in favour of her accommodating
herself to circumstances. She was
not the sort of person to worry over
sentimental troubles, so long as plenty of
creature comforts were provided for her.
All this did not of course prevent her from
being extremely pretty and extremely
charming, and Lord Walter would not
perhaps have dissected her in so cold-blooded
a manner if he had not been
desirous of assuring himself of the coolness
of his blood.

Having achieved that end, he felt at
liberty to be a little sorry for her. Madge
Wilton, if only the crooked could be made
straight, ought to have been provided
with a young, handsome, and devoted
lover, whose income should be equivalent
to Sir Christopher Shearman's. It was a
great pity that no such person was forthcoming,

and Lord Walter spent some
minutes in imagining himself such a person,
although he took care to guard against
the aberrations of a too exuberant fancy
by bearing in mind that a life spent with
Madge Wilton would by no means realize
his own aspirations. Norma Shaft was,
as old Nell had very truly said, a fitter
ideal to worship, and he did not quite see
why he should have been told in so offhand
a way that Norma would never look
at him. However, for some reason or
other, that line of thought was distasteful
to him, and he soon abandoned it.

It was barely twenty four hours later
that this man of well-balanced mind set
forth to call upon Mrs. and Miss Wilton,
whose address had been obligingly furnished
to him by the latter. In fact, to be
strictly accurate, it was only about twenty
hours later, and consequently a little too
early in the day to call upon anybody.
Lord Walter, for the benefit of his health,
walked the whole way, and having crossed

Kensington Gardens and Hyde Park, found
himself in Bond Street at a time when
most people are doing their shopping.
The contagion of example may have led
him to pay more attention than usual to
the shop-windows, and it was natural
enough that, on reaching the premises of
a certain dealer in antiquities, he should
have stood for a few seconds staring at
an enamel snuff-box which was exhibited
amongst other curiosities to attract the
passers-by, and of which Miss Wilton had
chanced to speak to him at the theatre.
'' The dearest little old box you ever saw
in your life ! " she had said. " Don't you
love little boxes ? When I see things of
that kind I long more than ever to be
rich."

The box, as Lord Walter's scrutiny
satisfied him, was by no means a bad
specimen of its kind, and it would, he felt,
be matter for regret if it should be acquired
by some rich person who in all probability
would not appreciate it. He thought he

would just step into the shop and inquire
the price. This, when stated to him by
the obsequious dealer, proved to be somewhat
startling ; but then, as the dealer
very reasonably pointed out, a fancy article
must needs command a fancy price. Work
such as that was daily becoming more and
more rare, and he believed that if he were
to consult his own interest he should keep
it locked up for another year or two.
Besides, the box in question possessed
associations which enhanced its value,
having once been the property of the
Empress Maria Theresa.

Lord Walter contended that that was
absolutely impossible and gave reasons for
his contention. Thereupon the dealer
consulted a memorandum-book, and without
moving a muscle said he found he
had made a little mistake : he should
have said Marie Antoinette. After this
there was a somewhat prolonged haggle,
which ended, as both parties to it had
known all along that it would end, in the

snuff-box passing into the possession and
pocket of Lord Walter, who walked off
with it to his club in St. James's Street.

As he was passing through the hall of
that building he was accosted by a fussy,
bustling little middle-aged person with a
snub nose and an eyeglass. This was the
Honourable Algerian Winstanley-Pettie,
M.P., a Junior Lord of the Treasury and
a frequenter of society in so far as his
arduous Parliamentary labours would allow.
He said, " How do you do, Sinclair ? Saw
you at the theatre the other night. Who
was that uncommonly handsome woman
whom you were with ? The tall one I
mean."

A Miss Shaft," answered Lord Walter.
'* Her father has a place down in Stour-shire,
near Warbury."

"Oh, a Miss Shaft ; I thought she
looked like a married woman. Anyhow, she
is remarkably handsome. I haven't seen
such a handsome face for a long time."

Mr. Pettie paid this tribute to Norma's

personal attractions in the tone of one who
knows that his praise is valuable, yet will
not grudge it to those who deserve praise.
The other," he went on presently, " was
pretty too, though in quite an inferior
style. A younger sister ? "

*'No; a Miss Wilton," replied Lord
Walter, wondering whether he would now
be asked how it had come to pass that two
unmarried ladies had shown themselves at
a theatre without a chaperon.

But apparently that point had escaped
the notice of Mr. Pettie, who said, *' Oh,
Miss Wilton, was it ? I thought perhaps it
might be when I saw Shearman sitting
beside her. It struck me that poor Shear-man
wasn't enjoying himself much. The
young lady seemed to talk a good deal
more to you than to him, I thought. Is
she a friend of yours ? "

Only a slight acquaintance," Lord
Walter answered, and added, he hardly
knew why, *'Do you know anything about
her ? "

Oh yes, I know all about her. Sister
to Mrs. Lacy and Lady Huddersfield. Hasa
managing old mamma who has done
pretty well with her daughters hitherto,
and means to do well again, it seems.
Shearman, as of course you know, has any
amount of coin. Not that I should particularly
care to marry him myself, if I
wei'e a young woman," concluded Mr.
Pettie with a laugh.

Why not ? " Lord Walter inquired.
*' Is there anything against him ? "

Well, he's a lout, you know, and they
say he's rather too good a judge of whisky.
Shoots well, though, and will vote on the
right side when he gets into the House, as
I hear he is anxious to do. Fancy a man
being anxious to get into Parliament in
these days ! I wish I could see my way to
get out of it, I know ! "

'' But of course you can't be spared."

Oh, I don't know ; nobody is indispensable,"
said Mr. Pettie, who really
thought that if anybody was he was. " I

suppose I must hold on till the next general
election ; but it's a great bore. One has
no time to go about and see one's friends ;
Fm afraid I shan't even find time to be
introduced to Miss Shaft, much as 1
should like it. In point of fact, I ought
to be off to Westminster now."

Mr. Pettie bustled away, and Lord
Walter, betaking himself to the reading-room,
sat down behind a newspaper which
he did not peruse. It was odd that the
above careless remarks should have annoyed
him ; he himself thought it odd ; but there
was no doubt as to the fact. He even
went so far as to utter certain objurgations
against a social system which he had
hitherto regarded with philosophic calm.
Really, when you came to think of it, it was
monstrous that a mere child like Madge
Wilton should be delivered over for life to
one who was certainly what Mr. Pettie had
called him, a lout, and who was more likely
than not to develop into a drunkard. How
can mothers do such things !

They do such things cheerfully and
thankfully every day, as Lord Walter
knew ; but perhaps he had never before
felt so shocked at them and disgusted with
them.

When he had made an end of moralizing,
and judged that the hour for paying visits
had arrived, he strolled slowly to the small
private hotel in Dover Street where Mrs.
Wilton had taken up her quarters for the
season. As luck would have it, he was
still waiting for somebody to appear in
answer to his ring, when a hired brougham
stopped at the door and Madge herself
stepped lightly out on to the pavement.

Are you here for the purpose of calling
upon us ? " she asked, favouring him with
a particularly bright smile. " How nice of
you ! Do come in. I don't know whether
mamma is at home ; but if she isn't, she
will be soon."

So he followed her, nothing loth, as she
ran upstairs and flung open the door of a
rather dingy little sitting-room ; and perhaps

be was not very much disappointed
when, in answer to Madge's inquiry, the
waiter announced that Mrs. Wilton had
not yet come in.

Then bring up tea," said Madge — " and
muffins. Do you like muffins ? " she asked,
turning to Lord Walter, " or shall we have
some cake ? "

Muffins, please," answered Lord Walter,
who was not particularly fond of that
leathery form of nourishment, but was
anxious to consult the tastes of his entertainer.


'' Well," said Madge, after seriously considering
the joint for a moment, " perhaps
we had better have both. Then we can
choose. Now sit down and make yourself
comfortable."

It may be remembered that Lord
Walter's first impression of Miss Wilton
had been that she was very shy ; but first
impressions are not always to be relied
upon, and he perceived that in this instance
he had been misled. There are people

who appear shy to the general public, but
who are as easy and expansive as possible
towards a favoured few, and such persons
are naturally liked by the favoured few,
who recognize in them the gift of just
appreciation. Lord Walter thought it very
pretty of Madge to open the heap of parcels
which had been carried upstairs for her
and to ask his opinion upon their contents.

'• I have been doing an afternoon's
shopping," she explained, " and I am completely
ruined. Still one must be clad,
mustn't one ? Now tell me whether these
two shades really blend. I suppose, being
an artist, you know something about colour,
though you don't belong to the painting
division."

He was able to reply that the shades
submitted to him could be harmoniously
combined, and he was also able to compliment
her upon the taste displayed in the
selection of her other purchases.

I have been shopping too," he remarked,
after these had been fully discussed.

** At least, I have been to one
shop and done one successful deal." Thereupon
he produced his prize, taking it out
of the silver paper in which it was
wrapped.

Oh, my beloved little box ! " exclaimed
Madge, clasping her hands. '^ And to
think it was I who put you on the track
of it ! Well, I am glad it is to be yours,
since it never can be mine."

But it is yours, if you will have it,"
said Lord Walter, smiling. '' I bought it
for you."

In spite of the matter-of-course tone in
which he made this announcement, he was
conscious of a certain feeling of uneasiness,
of some doubt as to whether she would
accept so valuable a present from him,
possibly even of a slight misgiving as to
the propriety of his offering it to her. But
her manner of responding convinced him
that, as regarded one of these points at
any rate, he need not have disturbed himself.
She took the proffered gift from his

VOL. I. 12

hand with a little cry of delight, examined
it closely, and then, raising a soft pair of
eyes, beaming with gratitude, to his, exclaimed,
" Oh, you are nice ! "

After a pause, she resumed, " What
made you think of getting it for me ? "

Well," he answered, laughing, '' I
thought you seemed to want it."

Of course I wanted it ; I would have
given my ears for it ! But never in my
wildest dreams did I imagine that it would
come into my possession. I shall always
keep it," she added, stroking it affectionately,
and it will always remind me of you."

Now such a speech as that, when seen
in uncompromising print, appears, it must
be confessed, a trifle warm, not to say unbecoming,
and indeed Mrs. Wilton, if she
had heard it, might not have approved of
it. But then all depends upon the way in
which things are said, and Lord Walter,
for his part, was quite sure that this dear
little girl meant no more by her thanks
than she would have meant in the not far

distant days when she had been still in the
nursery. However, he could not help
thinking her a dear little girl, and he
hoped that her mother would not turn up
just yet to interrupt a conversation which
had been so pleasantly initiated.

His hopes were realized. Mrs. Wilton
did not appear, and Madge and he partook
of their muffins together in contentment
and privacy. How, after touching upon a
variety of other topics, they came to talk
about Sir Christopher Shearman, he could
not afterwards clearly remember. It would
have been more prudent, no doubt, to avoid
mentioning Sir Christopher ; but since his
name was introduced, it was perhaps unavoidable
that he should be spoken of disparagingly.
Lord Walter really behaved
very well. All that he said — and that
was said only in obedience to urgent persuasion
— was, that in his opinion Sir
Christopher was not exactly a gentleman.

But Madge was a good deal less discreet.
She said, " I think he is a perfectly horrid

man ! So cross and ill-tempered ! And I
do hate that way he has of sitting close to
one and talking into one's face."

Lord Walter observed that be bad not
personally suffered from this habit of Sir
Christopher's, but that be could well
believe it to be disagreeable.

And then," continued Madge dolefully,
he is always bothering me to dance with
him. There is no pleasure in going to a
ball when one knows that Sir Christopher
will be lying in ambush at the foot of the
stairs, ready to book half a dozen dances
the moment that one appears."

'but surely it isn't necessary to give
him all that he asks for ? "

Madge shook her head and sighed. " A
great many things are necessary," said she
oracularly, 'which may not appear so to
those who don't know. Besides, one can t
very well say that one is engaged when
one is intercepted before reaching the ballroom.
It is a mean advantage to take.
But he takes it."

Lord Walter laughed. ^^ The only
remedy I can suggest," said he, " is that
I should procure invitations to all the balls
that you are going to. Then, upon your
arrival, you will find me waiting for you
under the portico beside the linkman, and
I will at once request you to give me
every dance upon the programme, except
two squares, which may be thrown as a
sop to Sir Christopher. I need hardly add
that you will be at liberty to discard me
afterwards. I should only claim a small
commission — say ten per cent."

Perhaps I might be willing to give
you more than that, if you cared to have
more," Madge returned. " I am sure you
dance well. One can always tell by looking
at people whether they will be good
partners or not, don't you think so ? "

This kind of talk went on for another
quarter of an hour, at the expiration of
which time Mrs. Wilton came in and put a
atop to it. Mrs. Wilton was civil, but not
very cordial. She evidently wondered

why Lord Walter had been admitted in
her absence, and did not seem quite satisfied
with his explanation that he had met Miss
Wilton at the door and had been induced
to come in and wait a few minutes. Conversation
was kept up with difficulty, and
met with no support from Madge, who
immediately upon her mother's entrance
became once more the demure young lady
whom Lord Walter had received in his
studio. He stayed a little longer for
form's sake, but took his leave as soon ashe
could decently do so.

One thing he noticed, and that was the
abrupt disappearance of the enamel snuffbox.
He was glad that it should have
vanished, because, under all the circumstances,
he did not particularly wish Mrs.
Wilton to see it ; but at the same time its
concealment struck him as suggestive.
Furthermore, it struck him that if he did
not mind what he was about he might get
himself as well as somebody else into
trouble.

CHAPTER X.

LAMMERGEIER AS AN ORATOR.

It is the prerogative of the wealthy and
distinguished to follow the bent of their
caprice or fancy in selecting friends for
themselves. The rest of us cannot do this,
because there is no certainty that our
advances will be received with gratitude ;
so we have to wait until people show some
signs of a disposition to like us before we
venture to proclaim our liking for them.
Mrs. Lammergeier, if not distinguished,
was extremely wealthy, and Mrs. Lam-merrier
had taken a fancy to Norma
Shaft. This being so, previous experience
would have justified her in assuming that
she had only to make her sentiments known
in order to obtain an assurance that they

were reciprocated ; but she was a woman
who possessed some insight into character,
and probably one of her reasons for being
attracted by Norma was that she suspected
her of differing from the ordinary
run of human beings in certain respects.
Instead therefore of inviting Miss Shaft
to drive in the Park with her and taking
her back to dinner afterwards, she presented
herself in Upper Belgrave Street
one morning and announced that she had
a favour to ask.

Now anybody who requested a favour of
this singular young woman might count
upon its being granted, if that were in anyway
possible, and might count also upon
giving her pleasure by the mere fact of
making the request. Some people are
constituted after that odd fashion. Moreover
the particular favour which Mrs.
Lammergeier had decided to solicit was
one which no right-minded and tenderhearted
person could have wished to
refuse.

*' I want you to take me in hand, Miss
Shaft," she began, in her abrupt way.
I serve no useful purpose whatsoever in
the world, except to entertain my husband's
friends, and whether even that is a useful
function seems open to question. I hear
you are engaged in a number of schemes
for improving the condition of the working
classes. Don't you think you might turn
me to account in a subordinate capacity ? "

"I'm only a subordinate myself," answered
Norma ; " but no doubt I could easily find
work for you to do if you are quite sure
that you won't find it distasteful. Most
people, you know, do find it distasteful —
and discouraging too."

I am not likely to be discouraged,"
Mrs. Lammergeier declared ; " I have no
extravagant expectations. And I defy
you to provide me with any occupation or
duties more distasteful to me than my
present ones. When I am not standing at
the head of my own staircase I am climbing
up the staircases of other people. It is

the same story night after night and week
after week, and words can't express how
sick I am of it. This eternal getting upstairs
is like being put upon the treadmill
in more ways than one. Hermann and I
plod doggedly on ; but we don't get any
higher, and, between you and me, I doubt
whether we ever shall. Suppose, however
for everything is conceivable — that we
do eventually reach the top landing and
stay there : what then ? Some fine day
we shall die ; and it doesn't seem to me
that having been asked to Buckingham
Palace or Marlborough House will be any
great comfort to me upon my death-bed.
"Whereas it might be a comfort to think
that I had tried to make a few of my
fellow creatures a little less miserable.
One understands the ambition of a nouveau
riche who has a family ; but I have no
children."

The last words were spoken with a
touch of genuine sadness which at once
enlisted Norma's sympathies. That same

evening Mrs. Lammergeler (disregarding
several previous engagements for the purpose)
was conducted to a part of London
which had hitherto been as unknown to
her as Central Africa, and was brought
into contact with persons of whose existence
she had only been aware in the same way
as one is aware of the existence of certain
savage tribes. Work, too, was found for
her which she cheerfully undertook and
conscientiously performed ; although she
perceived from the outset that Norma and
her associates were endeavouring to grapple
with a problem far too big for them.
However, she attained what, after all, had
been her original object in that she secured
a friend for herself.

I believe she is a good woman, and I
don't think she is a very happy one,"
Norma said to Mr. Shaft, who had noticed
with pleasure the intimacy which had
sprung up between the rich financier's wife
and his daughter, and who replied with a
laugh —

''My dear child, if she isn't happy she
must be rather hard to please. But I
suppose no woman likes to admit that she
has got all she wants."

That, perhaps, is an admission which
would not be very willingly made by manor
woman, and could not truthfully be
made by any appreciable portion of the
inhabitants of the world. The people on
whose behalf Norma and Mrs. Lammergeier
were exerting themselves wanted a great
many things, and to all appearance were
exceedingly unlikely to get them : yet they
were not much given to repining.

It seems impossible that they can
enjoy life," Mrs. Lammergeier exclaimed
one day, with a shade of impatience ; " but,
upon my word and honour, I believe they
do ! "

It is a very good thing that they do,"
said Norma.

Well, that's as may be. If I were one
of them I think I should wish for a rather
more widespread feeling of discontent.

Did you ever hear a debate in the House
of Commons ? "

Norma shook her head.

'^ Come with me tomorrow evening, and
you will have the advantage of listening to
a philanthropic oration from Hermann.
Hermann is always an effective speaker ;
but when he gets on to the subject of
benevolence he is nothing short of sublime.
To-morrow some wiseacre or other is going
to bring forward a motion to the effect
that the condition of the working classes
demands inquiry, and Hermann, I believe,
means to back him up. We needn't stay
long if you find it dull ; but I assure you
that there are times when a debate in the
House is as amusing as any play."

The House of Commons, we are often
told, is not an imposing assembly, and no
one is fonder of saying this than its own
members, but after all any assembly is
imposing or otherwise in accordance with
the impression produced upon the mind of
the spectator, which impression depends

more upon the mind of the spectator than
upon the assembly. Norma, when she
looked down upon the line of Conservative
statesmen who were at that time in office,
and upon the opposing phalanx, headed by
Mr. Gladstone and supplemented by the
forces of Mr. Parnell, was a good deal
impressed, feeling that she was in the
presence of men who ruled the destinies of
a vast empire. Their manner of doing
so may not be altogether dignified, their
attitudes may not convey the idea that
they realize the fulness of their responsibility,
their methods of expressing approval
and displeasure can scarcely be called
refined, but the fact remains that they can
give effect to their wishes — at least, a few
of them can — and this, in Nor ma's opinion,
made them interesting to watch.

Mrs. Lammergeier's view was perhaps
more superficial. " A lot of naughty little
schoolboys who wanted to get a rise out of
their masters would behave just like that,
if they hadn't the fear of the birch before

their eyes," she whispered. " There is an
individual called Black Rod who sometimes
makes his appearance here, but his functions
are not what you might suppose from his
name, more's the pity ! "

But this was during question time, while
unhappy Ministers were being badgered
and baited by their adversaries. That
form of sport having at length become
exhausted, somebody moved the adjournment
of the House for the consideration of
a matter of urgent public importance ; and
so the question of what was to be done
with the unemployed came on.

At that season of the year the unemployed
were neither numerous nor
menacing ; but they had been both in the
course of the preceding winter, and their
claims to attention would have been brought
before the House earlier if the debate
upon the Address and certain bills which
demanded an immense amount of discussion
had not blocked the way. The British
public, in point of fact, had arrived, as it

SO frequently does in the presence of
difficulties, at a vague conclusion that
*' something ought to be done ; " in other
words, that a Royal Commission ought to
be appointed with a view to shelving the
question for a time. This being a proposition
which commanded general assent, a
plain man might have thought that there
was no great need for talking about it.
However several well-informed persons
were fully determined to talk about it ; and
amongst these was Baron Lammergeier.

When Norma saw the swarthy little man
rise, adjust his pince-nez and tuck his
hands under his coat-tails, she glanced for
an instant at her neighbour, upon whose
rather thin lips a cynical smile was perceptible.
Norma had never heard Baron
Lammergeier speak before ; but from what
she had seen of him in private life, she did
not imagine that his oratory would be of a
very attractive description. Nevertheless,
before he had been ten minutes on his legs,
she was listening to him with interest and

curiosity. He had a decidedly Hebraic
method of enunciation ; the letter S was a
stumbling-block to him, and he seemed to
be suffering from a slight cold in the head ;
yet he spoke clearly and in short telling
sentences. His speech was temperate and
not very sanguine in tone ; though it
appeared that, while deprecating the principle
of State interference, he was in favour
of the Royal Commission. It did not, when
summed up, amount to very much more
than an expression of opinion that the duty
of the State is to be economical and the
duty of the individual is to be generous ;
but its commonplaces were well put and —
perhaps because they were commonplaces —
were well received.

Norma was both pleased and surprised.
I agree with every word that he said,"
she declared, turning to the orator's wife,
who smiled and remarked —

I told you that Hermann was an
effective speaker."

The fact is that Norma, in common, it

VOL. I. . 13

may be, with a good many others who had
been listening to Baron Lammergeier, had
gathered that that gentleman was himself
generous, as well as cool-headed and farsighted.


Hermann," observed Mrs. Lammergeier
presently, " knows how to suit himself to
his audience ; and that, no doubt, is half
the battle. He has several styles. You
have heard him here ; perhaps you would
like to hear him on the stump next. All
things considered, I am not sure that I
don't prefer him on the stump."

Thus it was that, not many days after
this. Norma, in company with a number of
other ladies and gentlemen, took her place
upon the platform of a large public hall
wherein Baron Lammergeier proposed to
deliver an address to his constituents.
These inhabited one of the western districts
of London and were for the most part
Conservatives, as beseems those who have
something to lose. They had however
a very fair sprinkling of disinterested

Radicals among them, and as Lammergeier
never attempted to exclude political opponents
from his meetings, there was every
prospect of his being a good deal interrupted
before he brought his discourse to a close.

'that is what he likes," Mrs. Lam-merrier
explained to Norma. " Hermann
is the happy possessor of an imperturbable
temper and a sound pair of lungs. He is
under the impression that he never holds a
meeting without making converts ; but
whether that is a correct theory or not I
don't pretend to say."

It was at any rate quite a plausible one.
By the time that the orator had got into
full swing he had evidently put his audience
in a good h amour ; which, as most public
speakers are aware, is no such simple feat
to accomplish. He did not in the least
mind being shouted at or hissed ; he waited
smilingly till the hubbub had subsided and
then went on. Some of his rejoinders
were extremely happy, and he had a deft
fashion of insinuating that he was in the

counsels of the Ministry which was not
without effect. The Lammergeier of the
House of Commons was a shrewd, practical
man of business ; the Lammergeier of the
platform was a jovial, humorous politician
who seemed determined to justify the
character attributed to him by his supporters
when they welcomed him with a
chorus of " For he's a jolly good fellow."

Some of them had reasons, perhaps, for
thinking him a jolly good fellow. Bribery
and corruption have been put an end to by
the Legislature ; but what Act of Parliament
can suppress the promptings of a
generous heart when no election is imminent
? It may even be that many of
those who yelled at Baron Lammergeier
were not really anxious to get rid of so
open-handed a representative.

As for Norma, circumstances prevented
her from drawing any comparison between
the present harangue and that to which
she had been privileged to listen at Westminster
; for the speaker had hardly

finished bis exordium when somebody
slipped into a chair behind her, and Lord
Walter's voice whispered in her ear, " Do
you find this sort of thing as entertaining
as a burlesque ? "

I haven't had time to judge yet," she
answered. " Do you ? "

Not quite, I think. Lammergeier is
sometimes amusing ; but I can't say that I
came here with any anticipation of being
amused."

Why did you come, then ? Are you
going to make a speech ? "

*' Heaven forbid ] But I am a humble
constituent of the Baron's, and I have
eaten his salt more than once, and as he
did me the honour to request my presence
this evening, the path of duty seemed plain.
I have been rewarded by meeting you.
After all, burlesque and political speeches
depend more for their attractiveness upon
the company in which one listens to them
than upon their intrinsic merits."

Is that why you don't find this performance

quite as entertaining as the
performance of the other night ? "

The question was put with a smile, and
to those who do not chance to be in love it
may seem rather odd that Lord Walter, sofar
from protesting, was perceptibly pleased
by Miss Shaft's innuendo. Love is
proverbially blind ; lovers are doubtless
apt to be fools, and the wisest of them,
while suffering from this malady, are no
whit less foolish than their neighbours.
King Solomon himself, who appears to have
been a lover upon an unusually extensive
scale, got himself into serious trouble, as
we know, through his susceptibility. So
Lord Walter, who had by this time reached
the point of admitting to himself that he
was in love with Madge Wilton, began to
talk about her at once, feeling instinctively
that he had got hold of a sympathetic
auditor.

It is too bad of people who have been
provided with places upon a platform for
the express purpose of having their minds

improved by one of the prominent politicians
of the day to keep up a subdued
murmur of conversation throughout his
most brilliant periods ; but such things
will occur and do occur, and as Baron
Lammergeier's back was turned towards
this couple it may be hoped that his feelings
were not hurt by their scandalous
inattention. Mrs. Laramergeier, who
watched them out of the corner of her eye,
freely forgave them, and was not ill-pleased
to see them upon such intimate
terms. She thought them an extremely
handsome couple, as indeed they were — he
bending forward and talking eagerly, and
she with her head slightly tilted back to
listen to him. They looked a great deal
more like lovers than friends ; and how
was Mrs. Lammergeier to guess that
between them they were hatching a plot
which could only be expected to end in
disappointment and disaster ?

This plot, it is true, was not expressly
formulated. Lord Walter did not say in

SO many words that lie was determined to
marry Madge Wilton if lie would have
him, nor did Norma promise to give him
all the help in her power ; but they understood
one another, and perhaps Lord
Walter had some reason for whispering
gratefully, when the meeting broke up,
You are more than kind to me. Miss
Shaft ; I don't know what right I have to
inflict my antiquated notions upon you."

Norma laughed. " But my notions are
antiquated too, you see," she remarked.

What had she said to him ? No more
than what she conscientiously thought.
She had agreed with him that manages de
convenance are detestable ; she had admitted
that Sir Christopher Shearman without his
money would not be worthy of Madge ;
she had confessed that she would a thousand
times rather see Madge married to a
man who loved her and whom she loved
than to a millionaire, and she had hinted
that, should such a personage be forthcoming,
he might count upon her favour

and support. In all this there was nothing
to retract or regret ; yet, as she drove
home with Mrs. Lammergeier, she seemed
tired and out of spirits, and it was a relief
to her to escape from the questionings of
that too inquisitive friend.

CHAPTER XI.

AT lord's.

As a matter of theory, everybody admits
that it is an absurd and foolish thing to
fall in love with a pretty face ; yet — sofar,
at least, as the male sex is concerned —
it is not very Visual to fall in love with
anything else ; and perhaps this reflection
may have consoled Lord Walter when he
found that he was beyond all question in
love with Madge Wilton. He stood in
need of some consolation, because he knew
perfectly well that the course of true love
could not by any possibility be made to
run smooth in this case. Strictly speaking,
he could not afford to marry. Prospects
of a kind he had ; but they were of
a very indefinite kind, and he had to contend

against a rival with a formidable
purse, not to speak of a lady who might be
more resolute than she looked, and who
quite certainly would not be desirous of
becoming his mother-in-law. Moreover,
he knew nothing in the world about Madge,
except that she was pretty and charming
and that he loved her.

Being thus in much perplexity of mind,
and the opportunity presenting itself, he
sought counsel of Norma Shaft, with the
result which has been mentioned. The
unspoken contract into which they had
entered did not, however, bear any immediate
fruit, and was thus a source of
disappointment to one of them, who had
thought that special facilities would
perhaps be granted to him for holding
private converse with the object of his
adoration. Norma was not disposed to
befriend him to that extent — at any rate,
she was not disposed to do so as yet ; for
it remained to be seen whether Madge
was as serious as he was. So he had to

make the best of chance meetings, and
these were few and unsatisfactory. On
such occasions as he did encounter Miss
Wilton she was closely attended by the
inevitable Shearman, and although she
seemed pleased to see him, she was evidently
not quite at her ease and would not
consent to give him anything like the
number of dances that he asked for.

I suspect that you really prefer your
dancing bear to any other partner," he was
provoked into exclaiming once. " I am
here on purpose to deliver you from him ;
but I don't believe you want to be
delivered."

You wouldn't say that if you had ever
had to hobble through a waltz with him,"
she returned, sighing deeply.

Then why do you hobble through
such a number of waltzes with him ? "

Because — because — well, because I
should be scolded if I didn't. Some people
can bear being scolded ; I can't. There is
mamma making signals to me ; please take

me back to her." She added in a hurried
undertone, ^^ My sister Mrs. Lacy is going
to give a fancy ball at the end of next
month. She says she doesn't know you ;
but she will send you an invitation, and
I have implored her to leave out Sir
Christopher."

This was all very well ; but the end of
next month was a long time off, and there
was no saying what might not happen in
the interim. The next time that Lord
Walter met Norma Shaft he used less
ambiguous language than he had done on
Baron Lammergeier's platform, and asked
plainly that he might be given some opportunity
of talking to Miss Wilton when
neither her mother nor Sir Christopher
should be present to mar the harmony of
the proceedings.

Norma hesitated for a few seconds before
making any response to this request. At
length she said, " I don't think I ought to
ask you to come here some afternoon and
meet her. Of course I could do it easily

enough ; but it seems a little underhand
somehow, and I should not like Mrs. Wilton
to say that I had played her false. Perhaps
I might help you a little with Madge, that
is all. As for meeting her and talking to
her, I am afraid you must fight that part
of the battle for yourself."

Lord Walter said, " Thank you ; it is
very kind of you ; " but looked despondent,
nevertheless. He may have thought that
a really useful ally would have taken the
part which was assigned to him, and would
have left him that which seemed to belong
more properly to a suitor. However, he
refrained from giving utterance to his
thoughts (and indeed had no occasion todo
so, since they were obvious enough),
and presently, by way of comforting him,
Norma remarked —

We are going to take Madge to the
University cricket-match on Saturday.
You will be there, perhaps ? "

Of course I shall," he replied, brightening
up.

Mrs. Wilton will not, because she has
an appointment with the dentist. I can't
answer for Sir Christopher."

I wish he had an appointment with
the dentist for to-day, and I wish I were
the dentist ! " exclaimed Lord Walter.

But if you drew every tooth in his
head, I am afraid you would not make him
a bit less eligible. And you need not
thirst for his blood. I dare say you will
hurt him more than any dentist could
before you have done with him."

There could be no doubt at all but that
Lord Walter would do so if he could, and
it would have been preposterous to expect
him to feel any pity for a competitor who
was so much more favourably handicapped
than he was. But when, on the ensuing
Saturday, he joined the throng at Lord's
and made his way up to the carriage in
which Norma and Madge and Mr, Shaft
were seated, he was rejoiced to find that
the foe was absent. One may be resolved
to treat any man's jealousy with indifference

; but it is for the comfort of all concerned
to avoid making him jealous, if that
can be managed.

Madge was in one of the moods which
he had discovered to be intermittent and
which he had begun to fear were rare.
She held out her hand at once to him,
saying, " Oh, I'm so glad you have come !
I was wondering whether by any chance
you would be here." Then she bent over
the side of the carriage and whispered,
"The cat is away and the mice may play
for once."

'* Who is the cat ? " he inquired, also ina
whisper. " Sir Christopher Shearman ? "

She made a grimace. "Oh no ; he's
never far away, and he may turn up at any
moment. I meant mamma."

It is not at all right of a girl to describe
her mother as a cat. Her mother may bea
cat and everybody may know it ; but she
is hardly the proper person to say so, and
young ladies are hereby warned that if
they do such things, they will very likely

lose the esteem of any man whose esteem
is worth having. The young ladies may
retort, to be sure, that at certain times and
to certain persons they may with impunity
say just exactly what they please ; and in
the presence of that indisputable truth
censor morum can but bow his head and
hold his tongue. Lord Walter was not asa
rule very lenient to offences against good
taste; yet he did not seem to object at all
to Madge's undutiful explanation, but only
laughed and asked what game the mice
were to play at.

Wouldn't you like to take a turn round
the ground ? " he suggested imploringly.
*' You can't see anything of the cricket
from where you are."

Madge glanced at Norma, who was
looking the other way, and at Mr. Shaft,
who was busily engaged in conversation
with a friend on the opposite side of the
carriage. Then she nodded. " Open the
door," said she ; " I'll come."

Lord Walter was helping her to alight

YOL. I. 14

when he received a sudden slap on the
back, and, turning round, was not altogether
overwhelmed with delight at finding himself
face to face with his brother. Lord
Loddondale was independent enough, or
aristocratic enough, to consult his own
inclinations in the matter of costume, and
did not always think it necessary, when in
London, to adopt the style of attire which
is held to be more or less compulsory by
humbler folk. On the present occasion he
wore a pot hat and a light-coloured coat,
while his nether man was clad in cords
and Newmarket boots. It was his opinion
that a man who rides in trousers is a very
uncomfortable man, and as he had ridden
to Lord's and meant to ride away again, he
had naturally arrayed himself with a view
to comfort.

Want to back the old shop, Walter ? "
he asked. " I should be glad to see our
side win ; but business is business, and I'm
ready to lay a shade of odds on Cambridge."


Lord Walter did not want to bet and
did not at all want to be detained at that
particular moment ; but what are you to do
when a man hooks you by the arm and
begins discussing bowling and fielding as
though nobody else had any claim upon
your attention ? What Lord Walter did
may not have been justifiable, but was at
least effectual. Seeing that Norma had
turned her head and was looking at him,
he promptly took a step towards the
carriage and said, '' Miss Shaft, may I
introduce my brother Loddondale ? I think
you used to know one another in old days."

Then, while Lord Loddondale was combining
a bow to the lady with a ferocious
side-glance at the introducer, he walked
away with Madge Wilton as fast as he
could.

Lord Loddondale passed for a woman-hater.
He was, at all events, a hater of
the society of ladies, never knowing what
to say to them unless they chanced to have
sporting tastes, and being possessed with a

not wholly erroneous idea that, if unmarried,
they would at once begin doing all they
possibly could to make him marry them.
But in a surprisingly short space of time he
discovered that Norma was not as other
girls are and that he had nothing at all to
fear from her.

She made some allusion to the far-away
time ** when we were all children," and
then, with that happy instinct which she
had of hitting upon the right topic of
conversation, remarked, " I think you have
both turned out exactly as one might have
expected ; you have taken up racing and
your brother has taken up art. You breed
your own horses, don't you ? "

*' I am beginning to do so," said Lord
Loddondale. " Until lately I haven't had
money enough to attempt it ; but of course
that's what every racing man would prefer
to do if he could."

*'So I should think; and if I were a
racing man I should certainly never
bet."

At this Lord Loddondale pursed up his
lips and shook his head. *' You'd have to
be a Rothschild then," he declared. " There
are owners who don't bet ; but they're
men who can afford to face two or three
bad years in succession. I'm not one of
those lucky beggars, so I have to make a
business of it, don't you see."

*' But then it ceases to be a sport, doesn't
it?"

I don't see why. There's a lot of
humbug talked about betting. Miss Shaft.
Some people say it's wrong, and then
there are others, like you, who say sport
oughtn't to be a trade. Now that's what
I call humbug, you know. Look at Walter
and his graven images. He sells 'em — at
least, he would if he could — but you call
him an artist, all the same. And authors
sell their books, and bishops are handsomely
paid for — for doing whatever it is that
bishops have to do. Why isn't the poor
racing man to be allowed to turn an honest
penny ? If his accounts come out square

at the end of the year it's about all they
do, I can tell you ! "

Well, the subject was not one upon
which Norma could speak with any great
authority, and perhaps she did not argue
her case very forcibly or make all the
points that she might have made. But
at the end of a quarter of an hour she had
succeeded in earning the esteem and
admiration of her interlocutor, and she had
also succeeded in getting him to talk about
his brother, of whom he spoke very kindly
and with perfect frankness.

Walter's badly off," he said, " and it's
my fault that he is. I've offered to make
him an allowance ; but he's proud and
won't have it. I shall say no more about
it just at present. He's sure to marry
some day, and then I dare say he'll listen
to reason and let me do what I can for
him. Walter is just the sort of fellow
who's bound to marry before long, don't
you think so ? Good-looking and what
women call interesting, you know, and all

that. Romantic too ; though he wouldn't
like to be called so."

There seemed to be some good in this
rather unpolished inheritor of an ancient
title. People called him disreputable ; but
perhaps that was only because he looked
like a groom and didn't go out into society.
Norma made no reply to his question ; but
she was glad to hear that, in the event of
Lord Walter's marrying a dowerless damsel,
the head of the family would be prepared
to do what is just and customary on such
occasions.

Meanwhile, the subject of her solicitude
was not getting on quite as well as might
have been anticipated with his dowerless
damsel. He had not, indeed, walked a
hundred yards by Miss Wilton's side
when Sir Christopher Shearman appeared ;
and Sir Christopher, as soon as he descried
the couple, looked as black as thunder.
This did not disturb Lord Walter in the
least, and he had not imagined that it
would disturb his neighbour ; yet — so

impossible is it to account for the whims
of women or to calculate upon their consistency
— she seemed a good deal put out
when Sir Christopher said, *' Well, I shall
be off. Two's company, three's none, and
I don't particularly care about watching
second-rate cricket."

She lowered her parasol a little, and
under cover of that shield whispered to
Sir Christopher (for Lord Walter heard
her distinctly), *' How stupid you are ! "

Then the parasol was raised again, and
lo and behold ! the countenance of Sir
Christopher was shining like the sun when
he emerges from behind a cloud ; and so
the trio sauntered on together, Madge
walking in the middle, with an admirer on
either side of her.

Two are company and three are none.
That discovery was made long before the
birth of Sir Christopher Shearman ; but
when three people are together it may
sometimes be doubtful which of them, if
he has any sense of self-respect, ought to

retire. Lord Walter was soon relieved
from any uncertainty as regarded himself.
Madge did not seem to hear him when he
spoke to her ; she laughed inordinately at
some feeble witticism in which Sir Christopher
was pleased to indulge at the expense
of the batsmen ; she even went the
length of wondering whether it would not
be possible to gets seats in the Pavilion.
Now Sir Christopher was a member of the
Marylebone Club and Lord Walter was
not. The latter therefore caught sight of
a fi-end, bowed, and withdrew.

A smile was upon his lips, but wrath
was in his heart, and if he had been a
sensible man he would then and there have
bidden a final adieu to Miss Madge Wilton.
Unluckily, he was not a sensible man,
because he was in love, and he was not the
less in love with this capricious girl by
reason of his being so justly indignant
against her. He wandered away, and,
after a time, encountered his brother and
Miss Shaft, to whom he mentioned that

he was going home. The look of wonder
and pity which he detected in Norma's
eyes did not perhaps put him in any better
humour.

What's the matter with Walter ? "
Lord Loddondale inquired innocently of
his companion. " Looks as if he wanted
to knock somebody down, doesn't he ? He
can't have been losing his money either,
because the match is going to end in a
draw, as anybody can see."

The match did, in truth, terminate
shortly afterwards as Lord Loddondale
had predicted that it would, and perhaps
it was not the only game which had been
played that day with an indecisive result.
But Norma, as she drove homewards with
Madge (Mr. Shaft having departed for
his club), resolved that she would at least
find out what object certain players had in
view. So she said, without any circumlocution
—

I wish I could feel sure of you, Madge !
Sometimes it seems to me as if you really

wished to marry Sir Christopher, though
you say you don't."

You may feel perfectly sure," answered
Madge, who by this time was looking tired
and depressed, '' that that is quite the last
thing in the world that I should wish
to do."

Why do you encourage him then ?
And why do you encourage — others ? I
don't think it is quite fair, if you mean
nothing by it."

At this Madge began to laugh and
showed signs of recovering her lost spirits.
'' Have others been complaining ? " she
asked. " Others mustn't be so exacting ;
others mustn't imagine that they are going
to have everything all their own way.
An occasional mild rebuff would do others
no sort of harm, I suspect."

I don't agree with you," said Norma.
*' I don't see the use of behaving in that
way, and — and if I were a man, I should
be disgusted by it."

** But, my dear old Norma, you are nota

man, though you are rather like one in
some ways. I can tell you what disgusts
a man more than anything else ; it is getting
what he wants without the slightest
difficulty."

Well — but is Lord Walter to get what
he wants ? "

"Oh, Norma, how you jump to conclusions
! What does Lord Walter want ?
I'm sure don't know ; and it is not at all
certain that he himself does."

After this there was a pause. Then
Norma said, " I suppose you mean that you
are only flirting with him. I am glad you
have told me, because now I can warn him
of what he has to expect. And I will."

To this menace no immediate rejoinder
was vouchsafed ; but presently there arose
a little sniffing noise, and Madge's handkerchief
was hastily pulled out of her
pocket. " Not very kind," were the only
intelligible words which reached Norma's
ears out of a confused and choking murmur.
Norma Shaft would have possessed

a remarkably clear head if she had not also
been gifted, or afflicted, with a remarkably
soft heart. She could not bear to see poor
little Madge crying ; so, instead of taking
no notice, as she ought to have done, she
began to apologize and accuse herself of
cruelty.

Cruel Madge agreed that she most certainly
was. 'rit is all very well for you ;
you are your own mistress and can do as
you please. You don't know what I have
to submit to at home and how I should
have been scolded if Sir Christopher had
gone off in a huff'. And I am not a flirt,
whatever you may say. The only thing is
that I aren't always do what I should
like to do."

Thus Dover Street was reached without
any definite announcement having been
made as to Lord Walter's chance of success,
although before then Norma had been
induced to withdraw her threat of cautioning
him against one who would not
willingly cause unhappiness to anybody.

CHAPTER XII.

Made MAKES AMENDS.

The next day being Sunday, Lord Walter
ought to have gone to church in the morning,
and this he would have done (for it
was his custom to go to church once a
week) if he had not felt his mental condition
to be such that he could not hope
for any real benefit either from prayers or
sermon. " Unless you can manage to
keep your thoughts from wandering," he
had been told authoritatively from the
pulpit not long before, " you had far better
remain at home." Therefore he remained
at home and smoked a pipe and allowed
his thoughts to wander. His thoughts
were not of a very exhilarating nature ;
but such as they were, he would have

preferred being left alone with them to
being interrupted by a visit from his
brother.

"I didn't know what the deuce to do
with myself," Lord Loddondale announced ;
so I strayed out here upon the chance of
finding you in. How I hate Sunday ! "

I should have thought it was much
the same as other days to you," remarked
Lord Walter.

"You would, would you? Well, it
ain't. There's no racing on Sunday and
no whist and no billiards. Gay young
dogs like you swagger about in the Park
and then go and call upon their friends
and then dine out ; but I'm not exactly
what you could call a lady-killer ; so that
by the time I've read the Observer and the
Field and the Sporting Times I'm about
ready to go and hang myself."

You should cultivate the society of
ladies," said Lord Walter ; " it would be a
change and a relaxation for you to mix
with them once a week, and you seem to

hit it off with some of them tolerably well
when you are driven to it. I noticed that
you and Miss Shaft got on capitally
yesterday afternoon."

Lord Loddondale had not removed his
hat, which was cocked slightly over one
eye. He had seated himself in his favourite
attitude, astride upon a chair, with his
arms folded upon the back of it. In reply
to his brother's observation he nodded
emphatically. " We did indeed," said he.
*' Miss Shaft is a girl in a thousand. No
humbug about her, no infernal airs, no
nasty little dodges of getting you to say
more than you mean, don't you know ?
Upon my word, if I were a marrying

man — However, I'm not a marrying

man."

** Non-marrying men usually end by
marrying," observed Lord Walter, who for
some reason or other was not best pleased
by his brother's eulogy of a lady the
refinement of whose character he must
naturally be quite unable to appreciate.

** YoTi will marry as a matter of course.
Indeed, it's your duty to do so, I suppose."

Duty or no duty, I don't mean to doit,"
answered Lord Loddondale shortly.
If it suits me to remain a bachelor, I
don't know who has a right to complain.
You least of anybody."

My dear fellow, I'm not complaining ;
I only venture to predict that you won't
remain a bachelor very long."

I shouldn't advise you to back your
opinion. All the same. Miss Shaft is a
nice girl and a good girl — and you're a
thundering ass, Walter."

Thank you ; but why ? "

Because, instead of making up to her
as you might, you're running after a confounded
little flirt who can't compare with
her even in looks, and who'll see you jolly
well hanged before she'll consent to share
your humble lot. I'm not acquainted with
the young woman and don't want to be ;
but other fellows are, and I asked a few
questions about her last night at the club.

VOL. I. 15

She's going to marry that rich beggar
Shearman, who has taken Brampton Priory,
and she sent you about your business
yesterday because he has a beast of a
temper and she's afraid of losing him if she
puts his back up. Now don't you make
any mistake about it : she'll flirt with you
as much as you please when it isn't too
risky, but if ever she marries you I'll eat
my hat. I tell you this, Walter, because
you're a good boy, though you set up to bea
man of the world, and I don't believe
you'd care to console yourself by flirting
with Lady Shearman."

The worst of it was that these counsels
really seemed to be based upon a foundation
of common sense. It was a little absurd
and a little irritating that they should come
from such a quarter ; still doubtless they
were kindly meant, and although a man of
the world may not altogether relish being
called a good boy, he is not so foolish as to
repudiate such a description of his character.
Lord Walter, therefore, gravely thanked

his mentor, mentioned that he was quite
aware of the circumstance that Miss
Wilton's relations intended to bestow her
upon Sir Christopher Shearman, and
changed the subject to one upon which
Lord Loddondale was perhaps better
qualified to speak.

Old Nell Travers was here a short time
ago," he said. '' She came to ask for some
tips about your horses ; but I was obliged
to send her empty away. Are you inclined
to be generous and give her a
hint ? "

Then it was curious to see how Lord
Loddondale's countenance changed. Ordinarily
he had the appearance of a very
wide-awake, not to say cunning, young
man ; but now the corners of his mouth
drooped, his lips parted, his brows were
raised, and his eyes opened very wide with
an expression of bewilderment and concern.
He looked like some guileless youth to
whom a hard question has been put, which
he would fain answer, but cannot, by

reason of his ignorance. " A hint ? " he
repeated vaguely. " About what ? "

*' At the time she seemed to be chiefly-anxious
to know whether Nugget would
win at Stourbridge ; but that's over,
and Nugget, I believe, didn't secure a
place''

*' Oh no; he wasn't placed. I'm sorry
if she put her money upon him. I could
have told her that he hadn't a chance ;
and, as it happens, that is the only thing
that T could have told her for certain about
any horse of mine."

Perhaps she didn't put her money upon
him. I dare say she would be glad to
hear a few words of wisdom about the
Goodwood Stakes and Cup."

Oh, she fancies the Conjuror and
Hengist, I suppose. Well, they may win
their races, and I hope they will ; but one
can't be too careful in giving advice to a
friend."

I'll tell her to leave Goodwood alone,
then," said Lord Walter, much amused.

*' That will be the safest plan, no doubt.
The Conjuror is a very uncertain horse,
and although I should have said that
Hengist had a pretty good chance of
pulling off the Cup, the public evidently
thinks otherwise."

Lord Loddondale was proceeding to
point out that the public, after all, is about
as good a judge of any horse's merits as
the owner of the animal is likely to be,
when a note was brought in to his brother
who, after glancing at it, slipped it into
his pocket unopened. How did Lord
Walter know that the dashing, straggling
hand in which this missive was addressed
was that of Madge Wilton ? He could not
have answered the question ; but he felt
no doubt as to the fact, and the consequence
was that the remainder of Lord Loddoii-
dale's harangue was spoken to deaf ears.
Perhaps that astute personage took his
leave a little more hastily than he might
have done if the Goodwood meeting had
not been mentioned ; yet he paused for a

moment on the threshold and then wheeled
round.

I'm a fool," said he, " and I don't know
what business old Nell Travers has to ask
impertinent questions ; but never mind.
Tell her to back Hengist for all she's
worth, and you'll do the same yourself if
you've any sense. It's the very best
certainty I've ever known. Look sharp
about it, though, or you won't get a
decent price. There ! I've done it now,
and in about forty-eight hours what I've
told you will be known all over the
place. I don't expect to be thanked ; but
if you feel that you owe me a turn, you
can pay me off by letting me know the
next time that Miss Shaft comes to
examine your clay figures. I should like
to meet that girl again."

There's no doubt about it then ! "
ejaculated Lord Walter. " Miss Shaft
may be Lady Loddondale as soon as she
chooses. Whether she will choose "

Don't be an idiot ! " interrupted Lord

Loddondale rather angrily. " I tell you
I'm not going to marry anybody. I should
like you to marry Miss Shaft if you
would ; but I suppose you won't. As far
as that goes, you ain't half good enough
for her, iu my opinion ; I don't mind telling
you that much."

His existence was forgotten the moment
that he was out of sight. Under ordinary
circumstances Lord Walter would doubtless
have been much interested in speculating
upon the causes of his brother's unprecedented
behaviour ; but, as it was, the
world contained but one person who interested
him in the least. Perhaps she
was a flirt ; perhaps he had been perfectly
right in resolving — as he had done a score
of times during the previous night and the
present morning — that he would not be
made a fool of by her. But — he loved
her ; and when once you have made such
an admission as that, to declare that you
will not be made a fool of is only an
unmeaning phrase. Lord Walter perused

the note which had been left for him, and
as he did so, his countenance became
illumined with smiles.

Dear Lord Walter " (Miss Wilton
wrote) —

I don't know whether you ever
go to church on Sunday afternoon ; but if
you don't, you might break through your
rule for once and come to St. Andrew's,
Wells Street, this afternoon at four o'clock.
You will hear some good music, and there's
no sermon. My reason for asking this
favour of you is that I want most particularly
to consult you about my costume
for that ball which I told you that my
sister Constance is going to give. I am
sure you could give me an idea if you
would. Anyhow, I shall be at St.
Andrew's with my cousin Mrs. Langley,
and I shall look out for you after the
service.

Sincerely yours,

Madge Wilton.

Why did you go away in such a hurry
yesterday ? I couldn't think what had
become of you."

It is needless to state that Lord Walter
was in the appointed place at the appointed
hour ; and when the congregation had
dispersed, he was rewarded by a squeeze
of the hand and a grateful glance from
Madge's soft eyes.

'' This is really good of you ! " she exclaimed.
** I know I'm a horrid nuisance ;
but when one is in despair one doesn't care
how great a nuisance one may be."

Then she introduced him to Mrs. Langley,
a rather pretty little woman, with a complexion
about which unkind people said
unkind things ; and Mrs. Langley, smiling
amiably, hoped he would come and have a
cup of tea in Portland Place.

Poor Madge," she explained, " can't
think of any dress that will be at once
suitable and original, and she scorns all
my humble suggestions. Perhaps she will

be more willing to trust your taste than
mine."

So Lord Walter, nothing loth, was conducted
to the commodious mansion in
which this lady dwelt, and after a quarter
of an hour of tea and gossip, Mrs. Langley,
discovering that she had some letters to
write, withdrew to the other end of the
drawing-room, which was a large one.

"Now," said Madge, drawing her chair
closer to that of her adviser, " let us proceed
to business. Have you thought of
anything yet, or shall I go through a list
of the dresses that nothing would induce
me to wear ? "

I have thought of something," answered
Lord Walter. " I was thinking about it in
church, and I have made up my mind that
you must wear an Albanian costume."

Madge drew down the corners of her
mouth. " Couldn't you hit upon anything
less hackneyed than that ? " she asked.

I don't mean a peasant costume. You
are to be an Albanian princess ; and your

costume cannot possibly be hackneyed,
because I propose to invent it. There are
not, and to the best of my belief there
never were, any princesses in Albania, and
when one is dealing with imaginary persons
one is entitled to say how they shall be
attired. Perhaps the best plan will befor
me to make a rough sketch of my
notion."

He took pencil and paper, and in a few
minutes handed Madge a hastily executed
drawing, which she surveyed critically.

Yes," she said, *' it doesn't look bad.
But what about the materials ? "

Well, the skirt and bodice must be of
silver brocade. The bodice, as you see, is
cut square, and those open, hanging sleeves,
as well as the train, ought, I think, to be
of white velvet, though I will admit silk if
you insist upon it. The embroidery, of
course, must be silver. The veil should be
gauze. It falls from a diamond tiara over
the back of the head, is brought loosely
round under the chin and flung over the

right shoulder, where it might be secured
by a diamond brooch. White and silver
would be trying to a good many people,
but not to you, if I may be permitted to
say so. The train, I admit, is an objection ;
but you might have it made with a loop,
through which you could pass your arm
when you were dancing."

Yes ; that might be done,' answered
Madge. She added quietly, " There is just
one more trifling objection. I haven't got
any diamonds, and this costume would cost
at least five or six times as much as I could
possibly afford to spend upon it."

No, indeed ; that is the very thing
that I was thinking about when I designed
it, and you will see that it can be made up
quite cheaply. I happen to possess the
brocade and embroidery among my artistic
properties, and if you will make use of
them for the evening, I shall be greatly
honoured ; so that all you will have to buy
will be the material for the train and
sleeves and the gauze for the veil. That,

I should think, ought not to come more
expensive than any other complete dress
that you could wear. As for the diamonds,
I should think you might borrow them
from somebody. From Lady Huddersfield,
for instance."

Madge stroked her chin reflectively, for
the matter was one which required to be
looked at from several points of view. " I
don't know what mamma will say to my
wearing your brocade and embroidery,"
was the comment which she finally made
upon Lord Walter's proposition.

I don't see why Mrs. Wilton should
object ; they won't have a ticket with my
name upon it attached to them," he returned,
with a readiness which did credit
to his insight into character.

Madge smiled, but still hesitated. She
knew that neither the dress nor the jewels
were altogether suitable to a girl of her
age ; but, on the other hand, she had that
overwhelming desire to wear diamonds
from which so few of her sex are exempt,

and she thought it very likely that Lady
Huddersfield could be prevailed upon to
lend her the tiara. She ended by saying,
^^ It's very kind of you ; " which Lord
Walter rightly interpreted as signifying
assent.

Presently she asked, " And what are
you yourself going to wear ? "

'shall I be there?"

Of course you will. Didn't you promise
me that you would ? The invitations will
be out in a day or two."

Now, although it may be true that, as
Lord Walter had somewhat hastily declared,
there have never been any princesses in
Albania, it is well known that the country
has always been prolific in chieftains ; and
the costume worn by these, which has now
become the national costume of Greece, is
also well known and is extremely becoming.
He took up his pencil again and drew a
figure of a warrior, clad in velvet jacket,
hanging sleeves, fustanella, tasselled fez,
and waist-belt containing the usual armoury

of pistols, daggers, and yataghans. " How
would that do ? " he asked.

Madge, after examining the sketch, remarked
demurely, " I don't quite know
what mamma would say to that either."

But need I consult her ? I have the
highest possible respect for Mrs. Wilton ;
still she is not my mamma, you know."

Madge made no rejoinder. She placed
the two sketches side by side, contemplating
them pensively, and, as he thought, a little
sadly.

'' Would you object ? " he ventured to
inquire at length.

Then she raised her eyes to his. " Oh
no," she answered softly ; " I shouldn't
object."

At this juncture Mrs. Langley, having
presumably finished her letters, joined the
conspirators and asked whether they were
getting any nearer to a decision. On the
outline of Madge's proposed costume being
submitted and explained to her, she protested
loudly.

Much too old and much too magnificent,"
she declared. "Everybody in
the room will want to know where you got
your materials from."

But everybody needn't be told," returned
Madge and Lord Walter in the
same breath.

This simultaneous rejoinder seemed to
tickle Mrs. Langley, who agreed drily that
that was very true. " The individual in
the petticoat," she added, " is, I presume.
Lord Walter. Well, I beg you both to
understand distinctly that I wash my
hands of this business. I foresee that it
will be disapproved of in more quarters
than one, and if you will be advised by
me, you will think better of it. But the
chances are that you won't be advised
by me."

It cannot be said that this advice was
tendered in such a fashion as to render its
acceptance probable ; and the truth is that
Mrs. Langley took a mischievous delight
in provoking her aunt, from whom she had

had to submit to a good deal of provocation
in days gone by. Also she knew, or
thought she knew, perfectly well that the
mere fact of having attended a fancy ball
as pendant to an Albanian chieftain would
never prevent Madge Wilton from marrying
an English ironmaster.

But Lord Walter was of a different
opinion. He went home in jubilant spirits,
attaching a significance to Madge's consent
to wear his property which he would have
been the first to deride had his case been
that of another man, and had he been
looking on at it. To bo acquainted with
the peculiarities and frailties of human
nature is all very well, and some of us
may, by observation, have attained to a
certain proficiency in that science ; but
when we talk about human nature, we
don't generally mean either our own nature
or that of the persons whom we love.

VOL. I. 16

CHAPTER XIII.

MRS. LACy's ball.

Why Mrs. Wilton permitted her daughter
to make use of Lord Walter Sinclair's
silver brocade it would be difficult to say.
It was a compromising sort of thing to
allow one's daughter to do, and a vigilant
mother might have been expected to put
a prompt veto upon any such proceeding.
Yet Mrs. Wilton, who had had great experience
and had discharged her maternal
functions with singular success, rust be
assumed to have known what she was
about. Perhaps she may have reasoned,
as others had done, that the ownership
of the brocade need not necessarily be
divulged ; perhaps she may have been
influenced by the good-natured Lady Huddersfield,

who had been coaxed into lending
the requisite jewels, or by a not unnatural
desire to spare her own pocket ; it is even
possible that she may have wished to rouse
the jealousy of Sir Christopher, who continued
to be attentive, but who had not
yet committed himself, though the season
was drawing towards a close. In any
case, she did assent in her customary
querulous fashion, declaring that the dress
was an absurd one, and that it was disagreeable
to lay one's self under such obligations
to a comparative stranger, but that
of course Madge would take her own way.
Lord Walter Sinclair is making himself
quite ridiculous about Madge," she complained
to Norma. *'He calls every day
upon the pretext of altering something in
the costume that he has designed for her.
Of course no result can possibly come of
this, and I don't think Madge cares a
farthing for him ; still it is rather unpleasant
while it lasts. I wish you had
not introduced him to us, Norma ! "

But supposing she did care for him ? "
Norma made bold to suggest. " There is
nothing against him, except that he isn't
rich, is there ? And he is clever and
handsome and "

But, my dear, she doesn't," interrupted
Mrs. Wilton, cutting short the list of Lord
Walter's charms. " I can't tell what would
happen if she did, and I don't see the use
of talking about it. Surely we all have
real troubles enough, without discussing
imaginary ones ! "

Norma did not insist further. It was
not Mrs. Wilton's opposition — which might
be looked upon as certain — that she had
dreaded on Lord Walter's account since he
had taken her into his confidence, and the
time had not yet come when her intervention
could be of any service to him or
Madge. That before they were much older
they would both stand in need of any
support that they could get, she no longer
doubted. She thought she saw plainly
enough what Mrs. Wilton could not or

would not see — that Madge had been overtaken
by the Nemesis which is said to Hein
wait for all flirts, and that, having
digged a pit for another, she had fallen into
the midst of it herself. This was perhaps
a good thing ; but it would have been a
better thing. Norma thought, if her friend
had had the courage and the honesty to
disabuse Sir Christopher of all illusions.
This Madge certainly had not done ; and
although, as Mrs. Wilton said, Lord Walter
found excuses for daily visits to Dover
Street, matters were so arranged, or so fell
out, that the rivals very seldom met.
Therefore it was evident that there was
stormy weather ahead.

Meanwhile, Walter Sinclair lived happily
in a fool's paradise. He had received no
verbal encouragement ; on the contrary,
many dark hints had been conveyed to
him, that the girl whom he loved was not
free to follow the dictates of her own heart;
but these warnings did not disturb him,
because he simply did not believe in them.

Moreover, the signs which Norma had
observed had not been lost upon him.
Like all lovers, he saw but one great
difficulty to be surmounted, and, having
now good hope of being victorious in that
all-important particular, it was not wonderful
that he should have been inclined
to make light of subsidiary obstacles.
Surely, if Madge cared for him, he would
have strength enough and determination
enough to rescue her from a thousand Mrs.
Wiltonss or Sir Christopher Sherman ! It
is a natural delusion and one to which weare
all prone.

Chancing upon Miss Travers at a dinner-party
one evening, he duly delivered to
her his brother's message, of which she
took note.

I am glad," she observed, " to find that
you are able to remember the needs of
your friends in your present semi-imbecile
condition."

And on being asked what she meant by
that, she replied, " My dear Walter, I

wasn't born yesterday. When I saw that
very badly executed head in your studio,
I perceived that you were upon the verge
of making a fool of yourself, and I have
since heard that you have gone beyond the
verge. One consolation is that, if matrimony
is what you are contemplating, you
will soon be shaken back into your senses
again ; and very soon after that you will
be thanking your stars for what I suppose
you will consider a misfortune at first."

Lord Walter laughed, not caring to
admit or deny anything. That, of course,
was just the sort of view which we take
of our neighbours' affairs and which our
neighbours take of ours. What a fallacy
to imagine that lookers-on see most of the
game ! Very generally, what they see is
not the game at all, but only something
which superficially resembles it.

Hitherto the attention of lookers-on had
been but little attracted to the game which
was being played by Lord Walter Sinclair
and Miss Wilton, because they had very

seldom been seen in public together ; but
what were lookers-on to think when the
former made his appearance at Mrs. Lacy's
ball in a magnificent costume corresponding
in every particular to that which rendered
the latter so conspicuous ? This was a little
Gown de theatre for which Mrs. Wilton had
not been prepared. She had been told,
indeed, that Lord Walter was to represent
a G-reek chieftain ; but, having only a faint
idea of the whereabouts of Albania, she
had not mentally connected it with Greece.
Now, however, that she saw the white and
silver, the open, hanging sleeves and the
embroidery worn by that unscrupulous
young man, she realized the full extent of
the liberty which he had permitted himself,
and bit her lip in vexation. To borrow his
brocade was one thing, but to countenance
his assumption of the character of Jack to
her daughter's Jill was quite another.

Little enough did he reck of an outraged
mother's feelings. He did not even notice
the marked coldness with which she greeted

him, but passed ou in search of Madge,
whom he presently found, and to whom he
said, " You see I have turned up in time
for our first dance."

She smiled and nodded, relinquishing
the arm of the Spanish muleteer with
whom she had been dancing, and taking
Lord Walter's. So this striking couple
moved down the ball-room together ; and
then, no doubt, it was that remarks began
to be interchanged amongst the bystanders
remarks more or less ironical, as indeed
they could hardly fail to be under the circumstances.
Those who knew Miss Wilton
also knew her mother and sisters and had
difficulty in believing that the impoverished
younger brother of a marquis could be the
match selected for her by such far-sighted
persons. Those who knew Lord Walter
considered him cool-headed and worldly-wise,
and were naturally amused to see
him thus parading himself with a girl
who, as they were credibly informed, had
no fortune at all.

Madge, perhaps, was aware that she was
being talked about, for she seemed a little
uneasy, and said at length, " Would you
very much mind sitting out this dance ?
My dress is lovely, and it is a great success,
thanks to you ; but it is a little bit heavy
for dancing in."

Lord Walter was quite ready to do anything
that she pleased ; so long as he had
her beside him he was satisfied. He took
her out on to the broad balcony, which had
been covered in with striped canvas, and
was partially lighted by hanging Chinese
lanterns. There they found an unoccupied
divan, and, possessing themselves of it, fell
into a kind of talk which had latterly
become usual with them. It was, to tell
the truth, a kind of talk which would not
bear reporting, being, as regards the words
actually spoken, trivial and uninteresting
to the last degree ; but under cover of it
were exchanged hints, innuendoes and allusions
which were doubtless interesting
enough to the persons concerned. If either

of them found it too indirect to be quite
satisfactory, that one was not Madge, who
by means of it had discovered all that she
could possibly wish to know or that he
could desire to tell her. Nevertheless there
are certain things which must be stated
plainly before any man will consent to
understand them, and it now seemed expedient
to her to discard ambiguity with
reference to one of these.

Would you," she asked after a time,
be very angry if I begged you, as a
great favour, to give up the rest of the
dances that I promised you for this
evening ? "

I shouldn't be angry," he replied rather
blankly ; " but I should be grievously disappointed.
What have I done ? "

Oh, nothing ; only — don't you think it
would be better if we were not too much
seen together to-night ? I warned you,
you know, that mamma wouldn't be pleased
at your wearing a dress like mine, and as
we passed her just now, I saw that lie

wasn't. In fact, I am sure that she is very
much displeased."

''I am sorry for that ; but might we not
have the audacity to brave her displeasure,
for once ? "

We might ; but it wouldn't be very
wise, would it? At least, it wouldn't be
very wise of me, I mean. To you, I daresay,
it wouldn't matter much. In future
we shouldn't be at home when you called,
that would be all."

Lord Walter remained silent for a
moment or two. It would certainly be
unwise to defy Mrs. Wilton, and if she
chose to shut her door in his face, there
was nothing in the world to prevent her
from doing so. Yet he would have to
fight her or win her over some day. His
musings were interrupted by a little sigh
from his neighbour.

You see," she said, " it is just what I
am always telling you, and I don't know
why you laugh when I say it ; I can't do
what I like. I have been looking forward

to this ball for weeks, and now I shan't
enjoy it at all. But there's no help for it.
We mustn't even sit here much longer, and
perhaps I shan't see you again before we
leave London. We are to go home in a
day or two."

You don't mean that ! " ejaculated Lord
Walter in dismay. Then, after a pause,
** In that case, we may as well dance and
enjoy ourselves while we can. If you are
going to leave London, my calling in Dover
Street would be equally useless whether
Mrs. Wilton was pleased with me or not."

Oh, I didn't mean that quite literally.
What I meant was that if you offend
mamma, she won't let me speak to you
again, and — and we have been such friends
I should be sorry "

There was a break in the speaker's voice
which betrayed genuine emotion and which
had the effect of dismissing all Lord Walter's
prudence to the winds. " Madge!" he exclaimed
suddenly.

Hush ! " she whispered ; " you must

not say that. I think we will go back to
the ballroom now, please."

Nevertheless, she did not move.

As for Lord Walter, he had gone too far
to draw back. '' I love you, Madge," he
said. " That is no news to you ; you have
known it for some time past. I think, too,
yon may have known why I have not
ventured to say so before. I am a poor
man ; but perhaps I shall not always be
poor. At any rate, if you could give me
just a little bit of hope, I should be encouraged
to throw my whole heart into my
calling — which is really a lucrative calling
for those who succeed at it."

A little bit of hope is no great boon to
ask for, and Madge might have conceded
that much without committing herself in
any definite fashion. As she particularly
dreaded committing herself, concession
would doubtless have been her wisest
policy ; but she was taken by surprise and
was agitated, as well as rather frightened.
So she answered hurriedly —

Please don t say any more ; I can't possibly
answer you now. But next month
we shall be going to Scotland to stay with
the Lacys, and T believe their moor is close
to Lord Loddondale's, and what I was
thinking was that if your brother were to
ask you to stay with him "

I will take care that he does," said
Lord Walter joyfully, as she paused.
Loddondale is a good-natured fellow in
his way, and luckily I'm a pretty fair shot.
There will be no difficulty as to that. But
what about dates ? "

Well, I believe we shall go north about
the twelfth, and we are sure to stay at
least a month with the Lacys. Now take
me back to the ball-room."

He prepared to obey her ; he had obtained
all that he had hoped for and was
more than satisfied. But, as ill luck would
have it, at this moment there appeared
upon the scene a burly little red-bearded
man, habited as Henry YHL, who ejaculated,
'' Oho ! "

Madge had extracted a half-promise from
her sister that Sir Christopher Shearman
should not be invited to this ball ; yet here
Sir Christopher was, and a glance at his
flushed face would have sufficed to convince
anybody that he was in a very naughty
temper. After the above ejaculation, he
contorted his features into what he probably
intended for a sardonic smile and said, " I
suppose, Miss Wilton, I may congratulate

you."

Upon what ? " asked Madge, laughing
rather tremulously. '' Upon my costume
? "

No, I don't admire your costume. My
bad taste, I dare say ; but I don't. What
I'm told that I ought to congratulate you
upon is your engagement to Lord Walter
Sinclair. Half a dozen people have been
good enough to inform me of it since I
arrived. On my own account, I beg to
add my congratulations upon the success
with which you have kept it dark up to
now."

Even in that dim light Lord Walter
could see that Madge's colour faded. She
turned her affrighted eyes first upon Sir
Christopher, who was looking very fierce,
and then upon him. " It isn't true ! Please
tell him it isn't true ! " she gasped.

Now Lord Walter was not very much
inclined to comply with this request. Sir
Christopher had taken a most unwarrantable
liberty and deserved no answer. He
thought, too, that Sir Christopher had been
drinking, which may or may not have been
the case. Still, since he had been appealed
to, he could scarcely remain silent, so he
said very coldly —

There seems to be some mistake. Perhaps
the resemblance between my dress and
Miss Wilton's may be accountable for it."

'* And quite enough to account for it
too ! " cried Sir Christopher, still angry,
though evidently relieved. " How any
man can deliberately compromise a lady in
that way, unless he wants mistakes to be
made, passes my understanding."

VOL. I. 17

Your understanding," observed Lord
Walter sweetly, " is perhaps not a very
capacious one."

After that, it seemed high time to avert
a hand-to-hand conflict. Madge, rising to
the level of the occasion, burst out laughing.

How ridiculous ! " she exclaimed. " I
am sure there must be plenty of other menin
Greek costumes in the room, and people
can't imagine that I am engaged to them
all. However, I will carefully shun them
for the rest of the evening. Sir Christopher
will have to be upon his guard too, or he
may find himself dancing with one of
Henry YIII.'s six wives. Meanwhile, I
certainly mustn't show myself any more
with you, Lord Walter."

She held out her hand to him, saying,
Good night and good-bye, if we don't
meet again." Then she took Sir Christopher's
arm and was led away.

Lord Walter, though he had no very
high opinion of human nature was neither
jealous nor suspicious by temperament.

He saw that Madge was anxious to gain
time ; but he did not complain of that.
She could not marry him without incurring
some sacrifice of material comfort, and it
was only fair that she should have leisure
to consider whether that sacrifice was
worth making. That she should wish to
keep upon good terms with Sir Christopher
was also quite intelligible ; for if she fell
out with him she would fall out with her
mother, which would, of course, be uncomfortable,
and was as yet unnecessary. No
doubt he would have been less philosophic
if he had been less confident ; but how
could he help being confident? Not to
have been refused was virtually equivalent
to having been accepted ; and as he lingered
a while in the ball-room, watching Madge
while she danced with the appeased Sir
Christopher, he freely forgave the impertinence
of that defeated rival.

Presently he was accosted by a Roman
senator with an eyeglass, in whom he
recognized Mr. Winstanley-Pettie ; and

Mr. Pettie said, " Your little friend Miss
Wilton is a gorgeous spectacle to-night,
isn't she ? I wonder where the deuce she
got her diamonds from ! Do you suppose
Lady Huddersfield lent them to her ? Well,
she'll have diamonds of her own before
long ; I hear that fat little chap Shear-man
is crazy about her. Sorry for you ;
you'll have to drop her acquaintance, I'm
afraid."

Shall I ? " said Lord Walter.

'' I should rather think you would ! — a
man of your personal attractions ! Besides,
I've heard it whispered that your appearing
here as a couple of Albanians wasn't
altogether an accident, and Shearman has
heard it too. Never mind, my dear fellow ;
between ourselves, I don't much envy Miss
Wilton's future husband."

'' That is a very fortunate thing for Miss
Wilton's future husband."

Eh ? Well, it's a fortunate thing forme.
To fall in love with a flirt," added
Mr. Pettie impressively, " is just about the

most disastrous calamity that can happen
to a man."

But Lord Walter went home to dream of
Madge without any presentiment of approaching
disaster.

CHAPTER Xii.

LORD WALTER GOES TO SEEK HIS FORTUNE.

Mrs. Lacy's ball was the last entertainment
of the kind which was favoured by Walter
Sinclair's presence that season, nor was
any further opportunity of bidding Madge
farewell granted to him. His brocade and
embroidery were returned on the following
day with a very pretty little note of thanks,
in which Madge said —

I hope so much I may see you in
Scotland. I am rather in despair at having
to leave London — at least, I should be if I
had time to think about it ; but we are so
busy packing up and making preparations
for a move that I can't indulge my sorrow.
I shall have plenty of leisure for regrets

during the long, dull weeks that are
coming."

Lord Walter took the hint and made no
reply, either verbally or by letter. The
long weeks that were coming must necessarily
be weeks of suspense for him ; but
he did not think that they would be dull,
because he meant to devote them to a steady
prosecution of art. He had no longer,
indeed, any great temptation to be idle.
Everybody was going away ; the season
was expiring ; such luckless legislators as
had been unable to find pairs were in no
humour for entertaining their acquaintances
; and although Miss Travers was
kind enough to say that there would be a
spare room in the house which she and
some friends of hers had taken at Bognor
for the Groodwood week, that was an
invitation which could be declined without
any poignant sense of sacrifice.

However, he thought he ought to go and
say good-bye to the Shaftos, who, he presumed,
would shortly be flitting like the

rest of the world. He called in Upper
Belgrave Street rather late one afternoon,
and was glad to learn that Miss Shaft was
at home. Possibly he may have desired
to say something more than good-bye to
Miss Shaft, whose alliance had hitherto
been of little service to him, and from
whom he might ere long have to claim
more active support. It was therefore
annoying to find that she was not alone.
Seated upon a sofa beside her, in a lounging
attitude which struck the new-comer
as neither respectful nor becoming, was
the long-haired young man whom he remembered
to have seen at the theatre
and who had the impudence to screw up
his eyes at him as though he had been an
intruder.

I don't know whether you know Mr.
Morley," Norma said. '' Lord Walter
Sinclair — Mr. Morley."

Lord Walter bowed, and Mr. Morley,
rising very slowly from his recumbent
position, bent his head and heaved a sigh.

He was certainly a very ill-bred youth, and
one cannot wonder that Lord Walter should
have longed to kick him, though, to be
sure, he had as good a right as anybody
else to be where he was. It was Basil
Morley's misfortune that he had never been
adequately kicked. In his earlier years
his companions had done their best for him
in that direction ; but it must be assumed
that their boots were not thick enough, or
that his skin was too thick. He sank back
upon the sofa without the faintest idea of
having russet anybody's susceptibilities.
In fact, his belief was that he himself had
a grievance.

Then, Miss Shaft," said he, in low
and tender accents, " this is to be our last
meeting in London, I fear."

As you are going home tomorrow
morning, I am afraid it is," answered
Norma. " Please don't forget to give my
love to your mother."

And when shall we meet again ? Will
you not make an effort to show yourself ina

neighbourhood where you are — I may
say it without exaggeration — adored by
rich and poor alike ? "

I can't say for certain what we shall
do as yet. Of course I should like very
much to pay a flying visit to Brampton,
and the Wiltonss have asked us to stay with
them in the autumn, but everything must
depend upon my father's plans."

Mr. Shaft's plans must surely be
capable of being moulded in accordance
with your wishes. I can't conceive that
any one could live with you and not feel
constrained by an overpowering necessity
to do what you desired."

Having paid this handsome tribute to
Norma's powers of fascination, Mr. Morley
glanced at Lord Walter, sighed again, and
got up. " About that little volume of
poems," he began.

Yes ? " said Norma.

I was thinking But no matter.

Perhaps it would be better that you should
not see them until they are in print. Then

I shall make so bold as to crave your
acceptance of a copy."

He held Norma's hand for a minute,
gazed eloquently into her eyes, inclined
his head once more to the stranger, and
so retired, steering his way through the
furniture with graceful, deliberate steps.

Well," exclaimed Lord Walter, " I must
say "

Oh no, I don't think you must," interrupted
Norma, laughing. " If I don't
know all that there is to be said against
poor Mr. Morley it isn't the fault of my
friends. He is silly and affected, if you
like ; but many of those who abuse him
are quite as silly as he, though they may
not be quite as affected."

Meaning me ? "

No, I don't mean you. No one would
be likely to call you silly."

Thank you, but I. dare say I am silly,
all the same. Who knows ? One generally
has to await results before one can say
whether any man's behaviour is silly or

wise. What seems clear is that one's
behaviour isn't in all respects under one's
own control. Do you think Miss Wilton's
is, for example ? "

*' In what way do you mean ? "

I mean, do you think she is really
frightened of her mother ? "

That was exactly what Norma did not
know. She could sympathize with everybody,
but she could not understand everybody
; and having plenty of courage herself,
she had difficulty in believing that any girl
could be coerced by a peevish old woman
into doing what she not only disliked but
knew to be wrong. No doubt she underestimated
the power of peevish old women,
which is in reality enormous. At length
she said —

If you ask me, I think everything
depends upon yourself Girls generally
doubt whether a man is in earnest until he
has spoken out."

Well, I have done that," answered
Lord Walter, who then related what had

taken place at Mrs. Lacy's ball, and begged
Miss Sbafto to give bim ber honest opinion
of bis chances. He was in truth very
sanguine, and wanted rather to obtain some
promise of assistance as against Mrs.
Wilton than to be told what be already
knew, that, since be bad not been refused,
be bad been in a measure accepted. It
was therefore something of a surprise
and disappointment to bim when Norma
said —

I can't tell you ; Madge bas rather
avoided me of late. But it is a pity that
you did not make ber give you a distinct
answer. If sbe bad once confessed that
sbe cared for you, it would be different.
Mrs. Wilton is not a wicked woman. Sbe
bas done ber best to find rich husbands for
ber daughters, and one can't blame ber for
that ; but I don't think sbe would urge
any daughter of hers to marry a rich man,
knowing quite well that sbe loved a poor

one."

It seems to me," observed Lord Walter,

that the question is not whether she has
said that she cares for me, but whether she
does care for me."

Perhaps that was the question ; of course
it ought by rights to be the question ; but
Norma was riot certain about it. However,
on being further consulted, she readily
promised to give her confidant such aid as
it might be in her power to give, and she
strongly advised him to be in Scotland
as soon after the twelfth as possible.
Because," she added, " I should not at all
wonder if Mr. Lacy were to ask Sir
Christopher Shearman down for the grouse-shooting."


"I suppose you won't be in Scotland this
summer ? " Lord Walter said.

'* Oh no ; papa has taken a house at
Folkestone for three months, and I don't
know what we shall do after that. If we
can find a tenant for this house, we shall
go abroad most likely."

Upon the whole, Lord Walter went away
not ill satisfied with the upshot of this

conference and sincerely grateful for the
friendly spirit in which he had been met.
Rightly or wrongly, he was persuaded that
Miss Shaft had great influence over her
friends, and that this influence would be
exerted on his behalf he had been assured.
Also she had begged him to write to her
as soon as he should have any news to
communicate.

The following day brought him a little
piece of good fortune in the shape of an
invitation to join his brother's shooting
party in Aberdeenshire on the eighteenth.
Thus he was spared the disagreeable necessity
of asking to be asked ; and during
the period of quiet and solitude which
intervened between the day of his visit to
Norma and that of his departure for the
north he worked hard and steadily. It was
then, indeed, that he conceived and partially
executed the exquisite female figure which,
under the name of '' Suspense," has since
become celebrated.

Suspense is not always painful; that is

to say that it is not painful to all temperaments.
Lord Walter, when the time came
for him to journey northwards, set forthwith
feelings of pleasurable excitement
rather than of trepidation. He slept at
Edinburgh, not caring to submit to the
misery of an all-night journey ; and on the
succeeding evening reached Lord London
shooting-lodge, where he found four
other guests besides himself assembled.
During dinner the talk was of sport and
of nothing else ; but afterwards, when three
of the party had fallen asleep and had
dropped their cigars, the survivor said
casually to his host —

Do you know anything about your
neighbour Lacy, Loddondale ? "

Dick Lacy ? " answered Lord London
" Oh yes ; I know him a little.
Not a bad sort of fellow. Friend of yours,
by the way, Walter — or at least his sister-in-law
is. More by token, she is staying
there now, with her old mother. A man
who asks his mother-in-law to stay with

him for three or four weeks at a stretch
must be a good sort of fellow, eh ? "

And a man who asks that little cad
Shearman to stay with him must be next
door to an angel," remarked the first
speaker, laughing.

Is Sir Christopher Shearman there ? "
inquired Lord Walter.

Rather ! That's why Mrs. Wilton and
her daughter are there, I take it. The
beggar can shoot, I'll say that for him ;
but I shouldn't care to have him in the
house, and I certainly shouldn't care to
lend a hand in marry hug my wife's sister to
him — if I had a wife and she had a sister.
One understands women doing that sort of
thing ; but a man ought to know better.
I was thinking of that when I asked London
whether he knew anything of Lacy."

Lord Loddondale screwed up his little
red eyes and grinned. '' Bless your innocence
! " said he ; " you don't suppose
a married man is master in his own house,
do you ? "

VOL. I. 18

The subject was not pursued much
further, and everybody retired to bed at
an early hour. As for Lord Walter, he
was a little, but not very much, disquieted
by what he had heard. That Sir Christopher
should be staying with the Lacys was, after
all, no surprise to him, though of course it
might prove to be something of an inconvenience.


The next day he was out on the moor
from early morning to late evening, and
the object of this unremitting attention to
business was achieved in the shape of a
very heavy bag, to which Lord Walter
contributed his fair share. It was hardwork
; but none of the me a seemed to
mind it. They were enthusiastic sportsmen
and excellent shots, and if they had not
been both, would hardly have been invited
to occupy their present quarters. Lord
Walter, who was in anything but first-rate
condition after so many months of London,
was thoroughly tired out before nightfall,
and was not sorry for it, as this gave him

a plausible excuse for announcing that be
meant to take a rest on the morrow. His
fellow-guests remonstrated with him ; but
Lord Loddondale, who was not as a rule
lenient to shires, only laughed.

*' I suppose you're going over to Lacy's
place tomorrow, Walter," he remarked,
halting for a moment at his brother s door
on his way up to bed.

Well, yes, I think very likely I shall,"
answered Lord Walter ; " I ought to call
there. Is it far off ? "

"Take the dog-cart, if you like; but
you'll have a bad road and a roundabout
one. You could walk it in less than an
hour. Somebody will show you the way.
If I were you, I shouldn't go at all ; but
then I'm not you, thank goodness ! Well,
I dare say you won't want to go a second
time. Good night."

Lord Loddondale walked away, laughing.
Little as he went into society, he heard
something of its gossip, and both Lady
Huddersfield and Mrs. Lacy were well-known

people. From what he had been
told of them, as well as of Mrs. Wilton, he
did not imagine tViat a very cordial reception
was in store for his younger brother.

But no such apprehensions disturbed the
rest of Lord Walter, who slept like a top
and did not wake until long after the
sportsmen had resumed their daily labours.
He spent a long, pleasant morning all by
himself, lying full length upon the heathery
ground which surrounded the shooting-lodge,
reading the newspapers and dreaming.
It was a hot, still day ; the rounded
outlines of the middle distance and the faraway
blue hills were softened by a haze
which spread itself over the whole sky
towards noon ; there was a slumberous
murmur of insects in the air, and from the
earth arose the faint, slightly pungent
odour which belongs to the moors. Under
such conditions the least imaginative men
are tempted to indulge in day-dreams ; and
indeed they might be worse employed.
We all have in us the elements of perfectibility

: it is not difficult to conceive
of a society from which greed, selfishness,
and all the meaner vices which disfigure
ourselves and our neighbours should be
eliminated ; it is not difficult to ascribe to
a given fellow-creature those attributes
which all ought to possess ; and it is as
easy as anything can be to picture a
married life made up of graceful harmonies.
Of course the realities of existence are for
the most part hard and ugly. Births,
illnesses, deaths, with their attendant circumstances
; weekly bills, the adverse
criticisms of an ill-informed press, the
dreadful tedium of social intercourse —
these are not very pretty things to contemplate
; but then there is no reason at all
why one should contemplate them on a
summer's day. They form a part — and a
tolerably large part too — of our earthly
lot ; but they do not form the whole of it,
and if Walter Sinclair was able for a brief
space to realize mentally ideals which vere
not actually realizable, he was by so much

the better off. Madge Wilton did not
happen to be his ideal of feminine excellence,
so that he had a little trouble in the construction
of his airy castles ; but he
managed to construct them, in spite of all
obstacles, and went indoors at length to
eat his luncheon with a light heart and a
fine appetite.

Towards three o'clock he made inquiries
as to the way to Inverstrachan, which was
the name of Mr. Lacy's house, and was
offered the services of a lad to conduct him
thither ; but verbal instructions, together
with a cursory study of the Ordnance map,
seemed to be sufficient, and presently he
set forth to learn his fate. For he felt
very sure that his fate would be decided,
one way or the other, within the next few
hours.

The weather by this time had begun to
show signs of an approaching change ; the
atmosphere had become stifling, and heavy
cirro-cumulus clouds were drifting slowly
up against the feeble westerly breeze. " We

shall have a thunderstorm before sunset,"
thought Lord Walter. 'well, I don't
much care, so long as I get to the end of
my walk without a wetting."

And it occurred to him that to be
detained at Inverstrachan by stress of
weather might not, perhaps, be such a
very disagreeable experience. He laughed
a little as he imagined the scene — Madge
standing beside him at the window, looking
out to see whether it wasn't going to
clear ; Sir Christopher angry and suspicious
; Mrs. Wilton fretful and uneasy ;
Mrs. Lacy — he had seen Mrs. Lacy at her
own ball, in the guise of Semiramis — a
faded, tired-looking woman, who bore a
strong family likeness to her mother, and
who would doubtless be prepared to act asher
mother's chief of the staff in the
impending campaign. Well, supposing he
were to take all these bulls by the horns ?
Would not that be the most straightforward
and the wisest course to adopt ? He really
was not very much afraid of them ; and

why should poor little Madge have to bear
the whole brunt of their attacks ?

"Mrs. Wilton," Norma had said, "is nota
wicked woman," and in truth it did not
seem at all likely that she was. A little
good-humoured determination would suffice,
he thought, to vanquish her. One could
not expect that she would be pleased ; but
one might venture to look forward to the
probability of her becoming resigned.
However, there was one preliminary
obstacle in his path. By means of some
stratagem or other, he must contrive to get
private speech of Madge, and the consideration
of how this was to be accomplished
gave ample scope to his ingenuity
as he tramped briskly over the rocks and
heather.

But it appeared that the stars in their
courses were fighting in his favour ; for
hardly had he made out Inverstrachan, a
solid gray mansion, standing beneath a
sheltering shoulder of the hills, when he
also distinguished a solitary female figure

approaching liii. There was no mistaking
the identity of that small person, though
she wore a shooting-skirt and a deerstalker,
which altered her aspect a little from that
which he had been accustomed to associate
with her. It was evident, too, that she
had seen him, and was making straight for
him. She was walking up hill, and he
down ; so he quickened his pace to a run,
and in a very few minutes he was holding
her by both hands.

A light of welcome was in her eyes and
a smile upon her lips ; she did not seem to
resent the impetuosity of his unspoken
greeting, nor did she withdraw her hands.
All was well, then ! Mrs. Wilton and Mrs.
Lacy and Sir Christopher might gnash
their teeth or tear their hair or submit to
the inevitable with a good grace, as might
seem best to them ; for they were beaten
before the fight had begun.

CHAPTER XY.

LORD WALTER IS ANSWERED.

Madge gently freed herself at length from
the grip of her jubilant suitor, who, for his
part, was willing to release her, pending
explanations which might be superfluous,
but which were not likely to be protracted.

I am so glad I met you ! " she said.
a Were you on your way to Inverstrachan ?
I had a sort of idea that you might look us
up to-day."

Of course I was on my way to Inver-astrachan.
I only arrived forty-eight hours
ago, and I was obliged to shoot all yesterday
; but to-day I made my escape on the
plea of being tired out. How did you
know that I was in these parts ? "

She laughed. " Oh, 1 heard that you

were expected ; one hears a great many
things when one has a maid who is upon
terms of intimacy with somebody else's
valet."

And you came out on purpose to meet
me ? How good of you ! "

Indeed, I did nothing of the sort !
The men are shooting, and my mother and
sister have gone for a drive, and I am
taking a constitutional, that is all."

That was, at any rate, all that she could
be expected to say, and Lord Walter felt it
to be quite enough. " And are you glad
to see me ? " he asked, for the pleasure of
hearing her repeat that she was.

She coloured a little, and laughed again.
I am not sure that I ought to be," she
replied ; " but it is pleasant to meet one's
friends ; and all the mothers and sisters in
the world can't make it unpleasant, can
they ? "

I hope not."

Although," added Madge, with a sigh,
'* they can make most things unpleasant.

You haven't any mother or any sisters,
have you ? "

Lord Walter regretted that he had not.

T wouldn't be too regretful over it, if
I were you. There are deprivations which
are blessings in disguise."

In the overflowing gladness and charity
of his heart. Lord Walter was very nearly
taking up the cudgels on behalf of mothers
and sisters whose intentions were doubtless
good in the main ; for who cares to trample
upon a fallen foe ? But for the moment
he had matters of greater importance than
that to talk about.

You see," he said, " I have obeyed
your orders by coming to Scotland, and I
have lost as little time as possible about it
too. Loddondale only asked me for the
eighteenth, or I should have come sooner."

"My orders?" she repeated, with a
wondering look. "Oh, you mean that
night at the ball. Yes ; I believe I did
say that I hoped we might come across one
another in the Highlands ; but of course I

never meant that you were to make a
point of it. In fact, if you won't mind my
speaking plainly, I couldn't promise you
a very warm welcome at Inverstrachan.
Constance Lacy says Lord Loddondale asks
such very odd people to stay with him,
and there never has been any visiting
between the two houses, and — and — don't
you think it would perhaps be better if
you didn't call ? "

This speech was not altogether agreeable
to Lord Walter. He had no fancy for
clandestine meetings, and had, besides,
sense enough to know that he would put
himself entirely in the wrong by consenting
to anything of the kind. Yet this was
obviously what Madge was hinting at.
He did not think the worse of her for the
suggestion. No doubt the poor girl had
been bullied and worried at home, and it
was natural enough that she should be
tempted to deceive those whose method of
treating her had been of that kind
which inevitably engenders deception.

Nevertheless, he must make her understand
that honesty was best, and indeed the
only policy for her to pursue.

He was casting about him for words
which should convey his meaning without
making him appear too priggish, when the
first drop of the approaching storm created
a diversion by falling with a splash upon
his nose. The thunder had been already
for some time grumbling among the distant
hills ; and that these two persons must
have been very much interested in one
another is proved by the circumstance
that neither of them had as yet bestowed a
word or a thought upon atmospheric conditions.
Now, however, it was no longer
possible to ignore the imminence of a
thorough drenching.

What shall we do ! " exclaimed Madge.
It is going to deluge ; and there isn't a
roof to cover us anywhere between this and
Inverstrachan. "

It was, at all events, evident that
Inverstrachan could not possibly be reached

before the storm broke. Lord Walter
pointed this out ; and even as he spoke, a
furious gust of wind, accompanied by
driving rain, swept over the moor. There
was nothing for it but to seek such shelter
as could be found under the lee of an
overhanging boulder ; and for a few minutes
it seemed as if that would suffice for all
intents and purposes. Lord Walter made
Madge crouch down beneath it, and,
despite her remonstrances, insisted upon
taking off his coat and wrapping it round
her shoulders. As a matter of fact, it was
only the fringe of the thunderstorm that
reached them, the distant hills having
drawn it away ; still the lightning was
vivid enough and the thunder loud enough
to alarm a nervous person, and Madge
declared that she was frightened out of
her wits.

I am a dreadful coward," she said,
looking up deprecatingly at her neighbour.
Did you know that before ? At any rate,
you know it now."

A dispassionate looker-on might have
thought that Miss Wilton was hardly fair
to herself, for she had not turned pale nor
was she trembling ; and in truth physical
cowardice was not one of her defects. But
perhaps no lover expects or particularly
Lavishes the woman whom he loves to be
physically brave. Lord Walter comforted
and encouraged her, at first by words, and
then — for of course they were very close
to one another — by action. Under all
the circumstances, it was neither a very
audacious nor a very unnatural thing to
pass his arm round her waist ; but the
moment that he did so she started away
from him, exclaiming with an agitation
which was not feigned this time, " No —
no ! You mustn't ! "

But he did not mind that ; because it
was quite necessary that there should bea
clear understanding between them, and
this seemed to be as good an occasion as
another for initiating it. Taking her by
the hand, he drew her gently back under

the rock, from the protection of which she
had sprung, and said —

Madge, I have either taken a great
liberty, or I have done nothing that ought
to offend you. Which is it ? You know
I love you, and you know I am only hereto
ask you whether you will be my wife or
not. It's a great deal to ask ; and yet, if
you love me, I suppose you won't think
it a great deal. It just comes to this,
that I am a poor man, and that I have no
certain prospect of ever being anything
else."

Madge shook her head sorrowfully.
*' All the nice people are poor," she sighed.
And then, laughing a little, "Do you
think that is the way in which Providence
tries to keep things pretty comfortable all
round ? It isn't a very successful way. I
should make all the horrid men, like Sir
Christopher Shearman and Baron L^mmer-
geier, paupers, and hand their wealth over
to the others. Then at least somebody
would be happy ; and as for the Hammers

I. 19

geiers and Sherman, I dare say it would
improve their manners immensely to break
stones on the road. Just fancy if you
were only moderately rich — ten thousand
a year, or something like that. What fun
we might have ! A house in Mayfair and
a moor in Scotland, if you cared for that,
and perhaps a modest little yacht. Then
in the winter we would go up the Nile or
travel about in sunny places. I sometimes
dream of it."

It was a seductive picture, no doubt ;
and it was pleasant to hear that anything
of the kind had been the subject of her
dreams. No one will be unreasonable
enough to expect of a man so deeply in
love as Walter Sinclair that he should cavil
at the selfishness of such visions. " I am
afraid," he answered, " that I shall never
have ten thousand a year ; about a fifth of
that will be more like it. Even with what
I have we could get on ; though I don't
deny that it might be prudent to wait a
little."

Prudent or imprudent," said Madge
sadly, " it isn't to be thought of. Indeed,
I ought not to stay and listen to you ;
only " — and here she began to laugh again,
though in a somewhat lachrymose way — •
*' I can't very well go away until it stops
raining."

At that moment the rain was coming
down in torrents, and, the wind having
dropped, our friends were scarcely drier in
their place of refuge than they would have
been upon the open moor. But to one of
them at least that was a matter of small
consequence.

Madge," he said earnestly, " let us look
things in the face. We shall have a bad
quarter of an hour — perhaps a bad week or
two ; but I suppose we can survive that
much, and "

You don't know' interrupted Madge,
what mamma is."

Well, I know, of course, that she
wants you to marry Sir Christopher Shear-man."


Madge jumped up. '' I had better tell
you the truth," she exclaimed desperately ;
** I am going to marry him."

Lord Walter ought not to have been
very much astonished ; but he was astonished,
and what was more, he was
disgusted. " Going to marry him ! " he
repeated. " You can't mean that you have
accepted the man ! "

I couldn't help accepting him ; didn't
I tell you just now that I am a coward ?
I can't bear to be scolded from morning tonight.
I would marry anybody rather
than be scolded, and I knew all along that
I should have to marry Sir Christopher in
the end. So did mamma, or she would
never have allowed you to come and see us
as often as you did in London."

There was a pause ; after which Lord
Walter said, in a slightly altered tone,
"One thing at least I have a right to ask :
do you love me or not ? "

*' But surely," remonstrated Madge, " that
is just what you have no right to ask.

Even if I did, I couldn't confess it, now
that I am engaged to somebody else.
Could I?"

It is not very easy to look dignified or
imposing when you are in your shirt-sleeves
and are dripping from head to foot into the
bargain ; but Lord Walter was tall and
handsome, and the set of his features when
he was angered was very stern. It may
have been this, or it may have been a
guilty conscience, that caused Madge to
cower before him, and drop her eyes, while
he stood gazing at her in silence.

I don't know why we should quarrel
about it," she murmured ; "it isn't my
fault that we are both poor. I thought
you would be sorry for me ; but instead of
that, you seem to think that it is you who
are ill-used."

Well, if he did think so he might, no
doubt, have given reasons for holding that
opinion ; but his inclination, after the first
moment, was not to upbraid her. What
he was resolved to do, if it could possibly

be done, was to persuade her to break off
this unnatural engagement ; and very
much surprised he was to find that, notwithstanding
all the eloquence that he had
at command, it could not be done. Madge
let him talk, and made no attempt to defend
herself, and shed a few tears ; but for any
effect that his words produced upon her
beyond that, he might as well have pleaded
with the rock against which she was leaning.
Meanwhile a brisk breeze had sprung
up, clearing away the clouds, and the sun
was shining once more. Madge took the
coat off her shoulders, and handed it back
to its owner.

I must go," she said. " And you had
better go home too as quickly as you can,
or you will be catching cold or rheumatic
fever or something."

Are we to part like this, then ? " he
asked. " Did you bring me to Scotland
only to tell me that you are engaged to Sir
Christopher Shearman ? "

I didn't bring you to Scotland. I don't

know what you mean," she returned. *^ I
thought you were so nice ; but I see you
are just like mamma and all the others.
You only think of yourself, and the moment
that you don't get what you want you
begin to scold. Nobody is really nice,
except Norma Shaft."

There was a spice of truth in this
childish reproach which almost made Lord
Walter laugh, little as he was disposed to
merriment. Presently he said —

"I will try to be less selfish, then. I
will put myself out of the question — as
indeed I must, for you have shown me
plainly enough that you don't care for meas
I hoped you might — and I will only
entreat you for your own sake to dismiss
this man, whom you make no pretence of
loving. I don't think you can realize what
you are doing."

He will be kind to me," said Madge
meditatively.

And you will have plenty of money,
which is always a great consolation." ;

It was the first bitter speech that he had
made to her, and he was ashamed of it as
soon as it had passed his lips ; but he had
no need to repent, for she took it quite
literally.

Yes," she agreed, " there is that. And
money is a great consolation, as every one
knows."

What more could be said ? Lord Walter
simply took off his hat and turned away.
But such was her innate kindness of heart
that she did not wish him to depart in
anger.

'' How disagreeable you are ! " she exclaimed.
" Why should we not be friends
still?"

To be candid," he replied, " I don't
think it would be very easy for us to
remain friends. We can be acquaintances,
if you please ; though perhaps even that
would be scarcely desirable. Speaking for
myself, I would rather remember you as
you were a few weeks ago than know you
as Lady Shearman."

Yery well," said Madge, drawing
herself up ; " if you choose to blame me
for my misfortunes, I can't help it. Sir
Christopher has a horrid temper ; but I
don't think it is as bad as yours, and I
don't think he is as unjust as you either.
Good-bye."

He did not attempt to detain her ;
though he saw that she was not unwilling
to be detained. He could not tell her
that he was sorry for her, nor could he
quite forgive her. Yery likely a certain
amount of pressure had been brought
to bear upon her ; but that she had
made any serious endeavour to resist
that pressure it was impossible to suppose
; and she had as good as admitted
that Sir Christopher's money would compensate
her for the life-long companionship
of Sir Christopher. He watched
her for a few seconds, while she slowly
made her way down the hill-side, then
turned on his heel and strode off in the
opposite direction.

There are certain matters of fact, so well
known and universally admitted as to be
mere commonplaces, which nevertheless
seldom fail to startle those to whom they
are brought home by personal experience.
"We all know that women constantly marry
for money or position ; yet we are always
a little surprised when any woman we
have liked acts in this way. Walter
Sinclair, who had not only liked Madge,
but had fallen in love with her, was a
great deal more horrified by her cynicism
than he had appeared to be. It was unnatural,
he thought ; though if the circumstances
had been narrated to him by
anybody else, he would have pronounced
them to be perfectly natural and just
what might have been anticipated. Either
way, there was an end of his hopes.
He had had his answer, which had been
as final as could be wished, and the sooner
he took himself out of the country the
better.

During dinner he was asked no questions

as to how he had spent the afternoon, and
he flattered himself that his countenance
told no tales ; nevertheless, Lord London
whose little red eyes were sharp ones,
found an opportunity later in the evening
of saying to him, not unkindly —

You've had a facer, haven't you, old
man ? I knew you would ; but there wasn't
much use in telling you so."

Well, then — yes, I have," answered
Walter, who knew that he would be
obliged to admit the truth presently, and
thought he might as well do so without
further waste of words. " I don't want it
talked about ; but that is just what has
happened to me ; so, if you don't mind, I'll
be off south again tomorrow morning.
I can't stay on here, under the circumstances."


Do as you like, of course," said his
brother ; " but I don't myself see why you
should run away. You're deuced well out
of it, let me tell you, though you mayn't
think so now, and there's nothing like

sport to make one forget these little
disappointments. As for your meeting the
girl again, you're no more likely to do that
here than if you were in London."

"Perhaps not; but I shall go rather
further away than London, I think ; and I
don't mind acknowledging that the disappointment
isn't a little one."

'* Oh, you'll get over it ; you'll be all
right," said Lord Loddondale encouragingly.
" Take my word for it, there's only
one way in which a woman can give you
a great disappointment, and that is by
marrying you. However, you're sure to
marry ; and, as I told you before, if I were
in your shoes, 1 should try to marry Miss
Shaft. She's exceptional ; I don't believe
she would disappoint anybody."

Then why don't you try to marry her
yourself ? "

For several good reasons, which I
ain't going to tell you. Good night,
Walter ; turn it over in your mind, and if
tomorrow morning you feel inclined to

stay where yon are, we shall all be very
glad. If you don't, I'll keep your secret.
It isn't over and above likely that Miss
Wilton will, though ; they never do."

END OF VOL. 1,

PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, Limited,

LONDON AND Eccles. G., C. Cr» C(.

W. E. NORRIS,

Arthur OP
MAJOR And MINOR," *' MY FRIEND JI3I," "THE ROGUE," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:
Richard BENTLEY AND SON,

i^ublisfjcrs in ordinary to ^tx fHajfstg tfjc ©urm.
1889.

(All light s reserved.)

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/missshafto02norri

CONTENTS OF YOL. 11.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. Norma sees Two of her Friends . 1

II. Happy Sir Christopher . 21

III. Lord Loddondale makes a Suggestion 40

IV. Madge's Husband . . 61

V. Mrs. Walter . . . 82

VI. Lord Walter recovers his Sanity 99

VII. Basil Morley reveals a Secret . 119

VIII. Sir Christopher's Hunting is stopped 140

IX. Charity . . . 159

X. Lord Walter is enlightened . 178

XI. Unwelcome News . . 196

XII. Lord Walter forgets his Manners ^| 216

XIII. A Bad Quarter of an Hour . 235

XIV. Sir Christopher's Contrition . 257
XV. Madge meditates Vengeance . 278

CHAPTER I.

NORMA SEES TWO OF HER FRIENDS.

Charity proverbially begins at home ; and
it may be said of Miss Shaft, whose whole
life was given np to charity of one kind or
another, that she paid due attention to that
axiom. The charity which is generally
necessary for home use consists, one may
almost venture to affirm, chiefly in looking
pleasant. This ought not to be a very
difficult feat ; but it cannot be easy, or the
failure of most of us to accomplish it would
not be so conspicuous. When we are constrained
to do what is altogether repugnant
VOL. II. 20

to our tastes (and are not so mucla as
thanked for doing it), we are perhaps
entitled to assume an injured or a sulky
air ; yet if, by heroic effort, we can manage
to refrain from such an exhibition of
feeling, it is not improbable that we shall
eventually reap our reward in some
indirect fashion. Norma Shaft hated
Folkestone ; but she had not by word or
look insinuated to her father that she was
dissatisfied with the bare, windy watering-place
to which he had transported his household
gods for the summer. Thus, if she
obtained no other reward for her forbearance,
she had at least that of sparing
him vexation ; for he declared that he was
always contented when she was, and
without any doubt he believed himself to
be telling the truth in so declaring.

But as for being really contented in a
place like Folkestone, away from all her
friends and occupations, that was not
possible. There was, to be sure, a Convalescent
Home, at which she had been

asked to visit certain London patients, and
thither she betook herself daily ; but, with
the exception of this not very arduous duty,
she had no work to do, and the amusements
affected by the few friends whom she had
in the place had the fatal drawback of not
amusing her.

Mr. Shaft, on the other hand, liked
Folkestone very well. He could always
get a rubber of whist at the club, he was
continually coming across people whom he
knew amongst the promenaders at the
band, and he fancied that the air suited
him better than that of Stourshire. Moreover,
he was a good deal away. What
was the precise nature of the business
which took him up to London two or three
times a week he did not state ; but Norma
was given to understand in general terms
that he was occupied with highly lucrative
money transactions in the City, where he
was wont to meet his friend Baron
Lammergeier, whose fine place in Hertfordshire
was within easy reach of the capital.

One evening lie announced with satisfaction
that he had persuaded that valued counsellor
to run down to Folkestone on a
couple of days' visit, and to bring Mrs.
Lammergeier with him.

It's rather an honour, you know," he
explained. " At least, it's a favour.
Lammergeier says he likes nothing better
than filling his own house ; but he's so
busy that he has to make it a rule never to
stay with people. It seems, however, that
his wife has taken a great fancy to you ;
so they are going to break through their
practice for once."

Accordingly the Lammergeiers arrived,
with a valet, a maid, two pugs and an
enormous quantity of luggage.

I'm sorry about the dogs," Mrs. Lam-merrier
took an early opportunity of
saying to Norma ; " but they always
accompany us when we pay visits. Hermann
insists upon it. He has heard that
certain Royalties always take their dogs
about with them ; and as everybody

particularly dislikes this habit, it gives usa
sort of prestige, you see, to follow the
Royal example."

I like dogs for their own sake,"
answered Norma ; " they won't be any
inconvenience to me. And I suppose they
don't often inconvenience others ; for I
hear from papa that you refuse all invitations
to stay with your friends."

Did Hermann tell him that ? If so,
Hermann was guilty of a slight exaggeration.
What he must have meant to say
was that we indignantly refuse to stay
with those who have neither money nor a
title. I need hardly point out to you that
we, who have nothing common about us,
cannot consent to appear common."

Mrs. Lammergeier remained in this
somewhat disconcerting sarcastic mood
throughout the evening ; but on the following
day, after her husband had sauntered
down to the harbour with Mr. Shaft to
see the Bologna boat come in, she asked
Xorma to come out for a walk with her,

and began to talk about schemes for promoting
the welfare of the working classes
with something more like the humility
which she had displayed in an earlier stage
of their acquaintanceship.

It isn't that I have the smallest faith
in your Utopia," she remarked, after a
time ; " but you are so delightfully reasonable
and practical about it that it's a
pleasure to listen to you ; and I've no doubt
you do some good, though I never should."
Then, with an abrupt change of subject,
she asked, " Have you any influence over
your father ? "

In some ways I think I have," Norma
replied.

Then get him to drop business relations
with Hermann, if you can. There's a nice
thing for a woman to say about her
husband ! But I'm not saying anything
against him, mind you ; and in fact I don't
know anything. Only I have observed
that the small people — I mean the people
of comparatively small fortune — who are

mixed up in this speculations generally
come to grief. Hermann himself comes to
grief from time to time ; but then Hermann
has enormous capital, or enormous creditor
something, and it doesn't seem to hurt
him much. The others sink. Don't ask meany
questions, please. I can't tell you more
than that, and perhaps I wouldn't if I could.
But I felt as if it would make me rather
more comfortable to tell you that much."

Now this warning, to which no subsequent
allusion was made, caused Norma a
good deal of uneasiness. She had a strong
suspicion that Mr. Lammergeier had come
to Folkestone for no other purpose than to
deliver it, and she thought it over long
and anxiously after that lady's departure.
Yet she knew her father well enough to
know that no effort on her part to shake
the confidence which he reposed in Baron
Lammergeier would be at all likely to meet
with success ; and indeed the tentative
remonstrances which she essayed both
surprised and angered him.

My dear child," said he, " you really
must allow me to be the best judge of how
I am to conduct my own affairs. I don't
interfere with you in housekeeping matters,
about which I admit that you know a great
deal more than I do. Of course I know
what it is : some silly woman has been
telling you that Lammergeier is an adventurer.
Well, I think he can afford
to disregard such calumnies; but it so
happens that if he were the biggest thief
in Europe it would make no difference tome.
I have asked his advice and profited
by it, and more than once he has very
generously gone out of his way to tide me
over a difficulty ; but individually he does
not hold a sixpence of my money."

But is there any necessity to speculate
at all ? " Norma ventured to ask. '' Can't
we live upon what we have ? "

There is every necessity," returned her
father irritably ; " and as for living upon
what we have, I can tell you that if T
hadn't had the good luck to let Brampton,

I should be most unpleasantly pinched at
the present moment." Then he laughed
and stroked her hair, and added, " You're
a wise woman, my dear, and you disapprove
of risk, as all wise women should ; but then,
you see, you don't know quite everything.
After all, if I want to become a little richer,
it's more for your sake than my own."

There was not much consolation to begot
out of that ; but Norma made good
her title to be considered a wise woman by
holding her peace, and Mr. Sbafto's visits
to London continued to be frequent.

It was at this time that a letter from
Madge Wilton reached her friend which
had the effect of temporarily making the
latter forget Baron Lammergeier and the
pitfalls of the Stock Exchange. Madge,
who wrote from Scotland, had a great many
trivial questions to ask, and a great many
unimportant things to say. It was not
until she had read five pages of note-paper
that Norma came to the following announcement
: —

** Now, my dear old Norma, I am going
to tell you something that will rejoice your
heart or make your hair stand on end ; and
the funny thing is that I really don't
know which it will do, because you are nota
bit like other people. I am going to be
married to Sir Christopher Shearman. He
asked me in what, for him, was quite a
pretty way — very meek and conscious of
his unworthiness, and so forth ; and I told
him plainly that I hadn't the courage to
refuse so rich a man. He thought this a
capital joke — what it is to have such a
sense of humour ! — and repeated it afterwards
in the drawing-room before everybody,
to mamma's deep discomfiture. What
has put such a notion into his head I can't
imagine ; but I believe he actually thinks
I am devoted to him ! Meanwhile, he is
as respectful as could be wished and takes
no liberties, finding that I don't like them.
The wedding is to be very soon — before
the end of next month, I think — and I
want you to be my chief bridesmaid and

see me through the trying ceremony.
There is an appearance of unseemly haste
about this ; but Sir Christopher says he
doesn't see any object in delay, and mamma,
who is mortally afraid of a slip between
the cup and the lip, is all for despatch.
So before the winter, I suppose, I shall be
reigning at Brampton in your place ! It
seems very odd, and not very nice ; but
perhaps you would rather that we were
there than strangers.

The other day, as I was walking alone
on the hill, I unexpectedly fell in with
Lord Walter Sinclair. He is staying with
his brother, who has a shooting-lodge near
this ; but we are not likely to meet again,
as Constance says she doesn't care to know
Lord Loddondale, and I dare say he isn't
consumed with anxiety to know her. I
don't think I like him very much, after
all — Lord Walter, I mean. Very few
people improve as one gets better acquainted
with them, and he isn't one of
the very few."

All this Norma read with surprise and
distress. She had at one time thought
that Madge might do worse than accept
Sir Christopher, but had changed her
mind about that on discovering that the
girl's heart had been bestowed elsewhere.
And being, as she still was, convinced that
Madge loved Lord Walter, she was very
much afraid that what had happened was
the result of some foolish quarrel.

I have had a letter from Madge Wilton,
announcing her engagement to Sir Christopher
Shearman," she said, shortly afterwards,
to her father, who responded
heartily —

And a very good thing too ! I'm
delighted to hear it, and not astonished.
I had my suspicions, you know. Shearman
is a good fellow, and will make a good
husband, I'm sure."

Yes," agreed Norma rather doubtfully.
'' He is a great deal older than Madge,
though."

So much the better. Our little friend

Madge is inclined to be flighty, and
Shearman will steady her. Shearman is
thoroughly steady."

Norma could only hope so ; but she had
seen Sir Christopher a trifle unsteady on
his legs after dinner, while of the instability
of his temper she had had more than one
proof. Her hope was that Lord Walter
would keep his promise of writing to her,
and that she would soon receive from him
some account of the shipwreck his hopes
had suffered. However, the post brought
her no letter in his handwriting ; and one
afternoon she was debating whether it
would be very unwise to send a few lines
to his London address, when Lord Walter
himself was announced.

You didn't expect me to turn up here,
did you ? " said he, as he held out. his hand
to her.

No, indeed," she answered ; " I thought
you were in Scotland. But I am very
glad to see you."

Thanks ! I can honestly return the

compliment. As I am going to cross the
Channel tomorrow, I thought I might as
well stop a night at Folkestone upon the
chance of having a talk with you. I
intended to write, as you were kind enough
to tell me that I might ; but talking is
easier than writing — especially when one
has bad news to announce. I have been to
Scotland for the purpose that you know of,
and I have disastrously failed. Perhaps
you have heard that already ?"

Yes," answered Norma ; " I had a
letter from Madge a few days ago, in
which she told me that she had accepted
Sir Christopher Shearman. I didn't quite
understand it."

Oh, there isn't much to understand.
She has accepted Shearman, and she is
going to marry him ; that's all."

But I don't understand why she is
doing this. Can't you tell me ? "

I'm afraid I can. She is doing it
because she thinks that love is all very
well and very pretty in its way, but that

it isn't substantial ; whereas horses and
carriages and frocks and jewels are. As
far as I am able to judge, she has given
the whole question very careful and dispassionate
consideration."

But perhaps you are not very well able
to judge," observed Norma. " Whatever
she may be, you can scarcely be dispassionate
in this case ; and I shouldn't admire
you for it if you were."

*well, let us say that I am not dispassionate
; it really doesn't much signify.
She would marry me if I had Sir Christopher's
income ; but as I haven't, she
won't. That was what she told me, and I
have no reason to doubt that her sincerity
was equal to her candour. You think I
am sore ? Yes ; I am sore, and I don't
deny it. To discover that one has been
made a perfect fool of is always mortifying.
At the same time, it has perhaps the
salutary effect of cauterizing one's wounds."

Poor Lord Walter's wounds were
evidently far from having been cauterized

as yet. Norma said, '' I don't know what
may have taken place in Scotland : but I
am convinced that Madge had no thought
of making a fool of you when she was in
London. If you have quarrelled with her,
and if she has taken Sir Christopher in a
fit of pique, I think you ought to go back,
while there is still time, and make friends
with her again. It would be a thousand
times better to eat humble pie than to let
her ruin her whole future life — and yours."
Lord Walter laughed. " I don't think
you have quite taken that young lady's
measure yet. Miss Shaft," said he. " How
should you ? She is one of those people
who are very difficult to classify, because
they are so perfectly natural. Most of us
are hampered by scruples and prejudices — >
the relics of what we have been taught in
our childhood — or by feeble attempts to
act up to some standard which we have
fixed for ourselves ; but she is free from
anything of the kind. Her mother, I
should imagine, insists upon her going to

church once a week, and of course she had
her confirmed at the usual age, and she
has since impressed upon her that it;'is
rather wrong to flirt with poor me|iVand
very wrong indeed to marry them. ^''Tliat
would be about the extent of the system of
morality which she has been taught.
Consequently, she follows the dictates of
Nature as far as she can, but pulls up when
she finds herself opposed by the forces of
civilization. If you asked her, I am sure
she would tell you that she greatly regrets
being obliged to marry Sir Christopher
Shearman, but that it can't be helped, and
that he will make handsome settlements.
You need have no fear that her life will be
ruined."

** You are very hard upon her."
I don't think so. I believe I am telling
the simple truth. You are mistaken in
supposing that there was any quarrel
between us. I will tell you exactly what
occurred."

Accordingly he did so ; and when he
VOL. n. 21

had concluded his narrative, Norma was
compelled to admit that the answer which
had been given him must be regarded as
final.

Only," she pleaded, " I think there is
just this to be said for poor Madge — that
her mother is unsympathizing and persistent,
and that she herself is not very
brave."

So she told me. I dare say it is true.
There are excuses for everybody and
everything. But you see I have been
made a fool of, all the same ; and whether
that was my fault or hers doesn't seem to
matter much."

And where are you bound for now ? "
Norma asked presently.

<■<• For Paris first of all. I used to know
a great many of the Parisian artists, and
they were a pleasant set of fellows. I shall
look them up, and very likely spend the
autumn among them at Fontainebleau or
one of the places which they affect. Then,
later on, I shall make for Pome, and setup

a studio there, and begin to work in
earnest."

Papa often talks of spending next
winter in Rome' remarked Norma. " Perhaps
we may meet you there."

I hope so," said Lord Walter, brightening
up a little ; " that would be something
to look forward to. You have been
very kind to me, Miss Shaft ; and I'm
sure I don't know why, except that it is
your way, I suppose, to be kind to everybody.
When we meet in Rome, if we do
meet there, you will find me quite cured, I
hope."

Norma smiled, and seemed to assent ;
yet she could not help being a little sorry
that in the midst of his mortification and
disappointment he should already be looking
forward to oblivion. Fidelity to a
memory, which a man always feels to be a
trifle ridiculous, seems natural and beautiful
to women — by whom, in truth, it is sometimes
actually achieved ; and perhaps that
was why Norma added —

Do you know, I am a great deal more
sorry for Madge than I am for you. I am
afraid lie hasn't chosen what will make
her happy, and she will never be able to
go back from her choice now."

Lord Walter shook his head slightly.
He had said all that he intended to say in
disparagement of the girl whom he had
loved, and whom, in a certain sense, he still
loved ; as for pity or sympathy, he had
not much of either at her service. So he
changed the subject, and by-and-by took
his leave ; and that was the last that
Norma saw or heard of him for several
months.

CHAPTER II.

HAPPY SIR CHRISTOPHER.

It was in fine autumn weather that Norma
and her father returned to their own county
in order to be present at Madge's wedding,
having been invited to spend a week with
Mrs. Wilton for that purpose. Mrs. Wilton's
small house would not hold many guests,
and she herself thought that it would have
been more proper and fitting to place her
spare rooms at the disposal of the Huddersfield
and the Lacys ; but Madge pointed
out that the Lacys, who certainly would
not stay more than one night, could be
accommodated, that Lord Huddersfield, who
could not be made comfortable, would undoubtedly,
if asked, display that sense of

what was due to himself which he always
did display under such circumstances, by
making everybody else as uncomfortable
as . possible, and finally, that Norma's
help in carrying out arrangements for
the coming festivities would be invaluable.
So Mrs. Wilton being at this time
very much pleased with her youngest
daughter and unwilling to refuse her anything
in reason, gracefully yielded, and
extended to her former neighbours a welcome
as warm as it was in her nature to
bestow upon anybody.

A king when once he has abdicated
should not return to his former dominions,
nor a vicar who has accepted another
living to his former parish, nor a squire
who has let his place to the estate upon
which he has ceased to reside. It is sad
(however much one may have been prepared
for it) to find that things have
deteriorated during one's absence ; it is not
perhaps quite as satisfactory as it ought to
be to find that they have improved ; so

that, upon the whole, such reappearances
can only be recommended to persons of
large views and sweet temper. However,
Norma's temper was perfect, and Mr.
Shaft, to do him justice, was a man free
from the pettier failings to which human
nature is prone. Mr. Shaft, moreover,
was just now in excellent spirits and even
more than usually disposed to look upon
the bright side of everything. He had
made some lucky speculations ; what was
perhaps better still, he had escaped without
loss from others which had frightened him
terribly for a time, and he was now looking
forward to a pleasant winter in the
south. He did not seem to mind revisiting
the scenes amidst which the greater part of
his life had been passed, and from which
necessity had severed him in his old age ;
he went about among his tenants, with
whom he had always been popular; he
dropped in to lunch with the neighbours,
who were delighted to see him ; he had a
day's partridge shooting with Sir Christopher

Shearman at Brampton, and altogether
enjoyed himself amazingly.

Norma could not rise to quite so high
a philosophic level. The surrender of
Brampton had been a far heavier trial to
her than to her father; she loved every
stick and stone about the place, and when
she took her walks abroad there was not a
thatched cottage nor an ivy-grown homestead
but seemed to gaze at her reproachfully.
Her poor people, too, sympathized
with her, as the manner of their class is,
by making the very worst that could be
made of a bad business. They shook their
heads and wept and said times were hard
for all, but 'twas a terrible thing, sure
enough, when them as had lived upon the
land for centuries were driven out to make
room for rich tradesmen and such like.
Also they prophesied that the poor old
squire would not survive long in exile,
'' though he do bear up wonderful." And
as for themselves, what was to become of
them, without Miss Norma to help them

through their troubles when the winter set
in, the Lord alone He knew !

Nevertheless, it appeared upon further
inquiry that these jeremiads were uttered
rather as compliments than as a statement
of actual grievances ; for Sir Christopher
had evidently been extremely liberal, and
as soon as these good people discovered that
the interloper might be spoken well of
without offence, they all with one consent
began to extol his generosity. Now, it
was true that Norma had heard something
about Sir Christopher's ambition to represent
a constituency in which the voters
were mainly agricultural, and she had also
heard more than once that he was a man
who did not spend money heedlessly ; but
whatever his motives might be, it was
something to be thankful for that the poor
would be taken care of under his sway, and
she did not grudge him any praise that he
might receive either in that quarter or
elsewhere.

By Mrs. Wilton, as a matter of course,

he was praised in the highest terms ; and
as for Madge, she said very little about
him, which was as much as could be hoped
for. Madge was very busy, and, to all
appearance, very happy. There had been
a great piece of work to get her trousseau
ready in time ; but now all the frocks had
arrived and were a source of unmixed
delight to her. Sir Christopher rode over
daily, but showed himself in no way exacting,
and was, as she always said, *' very
kind."

When Norma and she were together
there was plenty of matter for conversation
as regarded the decoration of the church,
the attire of the bridesmaids, the disposition
of the guests at the wedding-breakfast, and
so forth, and this was a relief to the former,
who was rather in dread lest embarrassing
questions should be put to her or indiscreet
confidences reposed in her. It is quite
probable that Madge was aware of this
apprehension, and that she had sensibly
made up her mind neither to say nor do

anything to justify it ; but Madge often
changed her mind, besides being at all times
liable to be swayed by chance moods or
emotions ; and so it came to pass that on
the eve of her wedding-day she suddenly
asked what Norma had been expecting her
to ask at any moment during the previous
week.

Have you seen or heard anything of
Lord Walter Sinclair ? " she inquired.

Norma could only reply in the affirmative.
^' He has gone abroad," she said ;
he called on us as he passed through
Folkestone."

Ah, that must have been just after he
left Scotland. Did he say anything about
me ? "

'^ He mentioned you, of course."

Why, of course ? But as he did
mention me, I suppose he had nothing
very pleasant to say about me."

He told me that he had proposed to
you and that you had refused him," Norma
thought it best to answer candidly ; " but I

am not going to repeat all that he said, and
I don't see why you should be interested in
hearing it."

'' Not interested ! My dear Norma, as if
anybody wouldn't be interested in hearing
what a man whom she had refused said
about her afterwards ! I. believe even you
yourself would be. Still, if you don't
choose to tell me what he said, I can easily
guess. He was very unjust and very
selfish, I thought. He chose to take it for
granted that I was doing what I am going
to do simply for my own gratification ;
although he might have known — and, for
the matter of that, I told him However,
I don't care what he thinks."

I hope you don't," said Norma gravely ;
you certainly ought not to care."

Now, perhaps this was not the wisest
speech in the world to make, and Norma
showed something less than her usual
judgment in making it. She wanted to
check the avowal which she saw was
impending ; and, instead of laughing it

off, which might have been done successfully,
she endeavoured to rouse the pride
of one whose share of that quality happened
to be infinitesimal. The consequence was
that Madge at once melted into tears and
reproaches.

I did not think you would be so hard
to me, Norma," she sobbed. " Everybody
else is hard ; I know what I have to expect
from everybody else. But I thought you
would understand."

So the old story was repeated once more.
Her mother had urged and worried her ;
her sisters had preached at her ; she knew
that her life would have been made unendurable
if she had not yielded to their
wishes. It was all true enough, and
Norma was aware that it was true. Mado^e
would unquestionably have had to face a
bad time if she had rejected Sir Christopher
; but then she might have rejected
him and faced the bad time, and she had
not done so. It would be much kinder to
rebuke her now than to sympathize with

her. Yet it was not very easy to help
sympathizing with her. She seemed so
innocent in her selfishness, so unconscious of
having wronged anybody ; and there was
something in her utter loneliness, too,
which was pathetic. And so it came about
that before very long Norma found herself
soothing and condoling with her friend,
who was now crying hysterically, and who
had allowed some broken ejaculations to
escape between her sobs which would have
been better left unuttered.

Madge," Norma said at last, " this will
never do. If you don't love Sir Christopher
"

Madge broke into a wild laugh. " Love
him ! Could anybody love Sir Christopher
? "

Perhaps ; how can one tell ? But if
you don't — still more if you love somebody
else — you have no right to marry him. It
isn't too late yet "

'not too late?" interrupted Madge —
and somehow or other the suggestion had

a wonderfully tonic effect upon her, so that
she at once sat up and began to dry her
eyes. " What ! after the wedding-cake has
been sent and the banns called and everything
? Of course it is weeks and weeks
too late ! Now, Norma, you must forget
all the nonsense that I have been talking.
I was excited, and I wanted to have a cry,
and I've had it, and I'm all right again.
As for being in love with one's husband,
why, you don't suppose that Edith was in
love with that horrid old Huddersfield, or
Constance with Dick Lacy, do you ? and
yet they wouldn't change places with any
woman of their acquaintance ; they have
both told me so. And, Norma, there's
another thing. You are not to imagine,
please, that I am the least bit in love with
Lord Walter Sinclair. I liked him very
much as long as he was nice, and I didn't
like him when he turned nasty — that's all.
You are very welcome to tell him so from
me, if he should ever ask you about it."
Norma could not quite believe this statement.

She had seen more in London than
Madge was aware of, and indeed the girl's
manner was hardly of a nature to carry
conviction with it. Yet what could be
done ? It was evidently impossible to stop
the marriage. There was nothing for it
but to accept the inevitable and hope for
the best. After all, it did not seem unduly
sanguine to hope that Madge might be as
happy as her sisters.

The wedding, which was solemnized on
the following morning at Brampton Church,
was in all respects the smartest that the
county had seen for many a long day.
The bride, whose dress was a triumph oF
millinery and whose splendid diamonds
'the gift of the bridegroom) excited the
envy of all feminine beholders, was a little
pale, as all brides ought to be, but maintained
her composure admirably, and said
what she had to say in a clear, audible
voice. The bridegroom was suffused with
smiles and looked like a fool, as perhaps all
bridegrooms are apt to do. As for the

bridesmaids, Mr. Basil Morley, who was
present and who was an authority upon
such points, declared that the basis of pale
and dark blue out of which their charming
costumes had been evolved was thoroughly
artistic and that he did not remember
ever to have seen Miss Shaft look more
beautiful. " Although," he added, " Miss
Shaft would look beautiful in sackcloth."

Lord Huddersfield thought the bridesmaids'
frocks ugly, and said so ; but Lord
Huddersfield was a very cross old man, and
he had had rather a long drive from War-bury
Park, which house had been placed
at his disposal by the absent Lord London
and he was not at all sure that he
hadn't caught a cold in his head. Lady
Huddersfield, a very handsome woman,
well known in the fashionable world, was
pleased to express approval of the proceedings
generally, and said a few kind words
to her sister ; but she would not stay for
the breakfast, explaining that they always
had mutton chops and boiled potatoes for

YOL. II. 22

luncheon, and that, since these delicacies
were not forthcoming, she thought they
had better get back to Warbury as quickly
as possible.

Most people will agree with Lady Huddersfield
in disliking wedding-breakfasts,
and in these days the people who are
married in London very generally contrive
to dispense with them ; but in the country
this is less easily managed. Mrs. Wilton,
therefore, had provided her friends and
neighbours with a feast of the old-fashioned
kind, which was duly graced by the
presence of the bride and bridegroom. In
the absence of any better-qualified person,
Mr. Shaft proposed the health of the happy
pair in felicitous terms; Sir Christopher
responded jovially, and then Mr. Morley
suddenly rose to his feet with some fell
intent which he was precluded from carrying
into execution, for, chance or design
having placed him next to Miss Travers,
he was at once gripped and forced back
into his seat by that stalwart lady, who

told him that if he didn't shut up, she
would wring his neck. Then the pride
withdrew to change her dress and take a
fond farewell of her mother, half an hour
after which she reappeared, exquisitely
arrayed in fawn-colour, trimmed with silver
fox, and stepped lightly into the brougham
which was waiting for her. There were
no tears and not many embracing or last
words.

Which is quite as it should be," observed
Mr. Shaft, rubbing his hands. ** I
never could see why people should want to
turn a wedding into a funeral."

As the carriage drove away. Norma
stood on the steps, gazing after it a little
wistfully. By her way of thinking, there
are many weddings which are far sadder
than funerals. After death comes at least
rest, one may hope. It is as impossible to
doubt this in the case of our own dead as
it is to help foreseeing the possibility of
misfortune for such of our friends as are
still living, and although some loveless

marriages turn out, or seem to turn out,
satisfactorily, one can scarcely suppose that
the generality do. Therefore Norma looked
pensively after the retreating brougham
until her meditations were interrupted by
the voice of the sententious Morley, who
said —

Don't you know, Miss Shaft, that
it is very unlucky to watch people out of
sight ? "

Well," answered Norma, wheeling
round abruptly, " they are not out of sight
yet, so I trust I shall have brought no
misfortune upon them."

That," remarked Mr. Morley, '' is likely
enough to overtake them, I should say,
without help from anybody. I myself, as
I need hardly tell you, am no believer in
superstitions of any kind, but I occasionally
venture to make predictions which are
grounded upon something more solid.
Upon observation of human character and
conduct in short."

*' Really ? " said Norma. " But perhaps

you are sometimes mistaken ; and if you
have any disagreeable prediction to make
about Madge, I would rather you didn't
make it to me."

'^ Then I will not say what I was going
to say," returned the poet imperturbably.
*' Miss Wilton never interested me particularly
; Lady Shearman, I confess, does."

And doubtless he would have explained
why Lady Shearman was so favoured, had
he not at this juncture been interrupted by
a rude person who made it a practice to
interrupt him as often as she could.

'now, Mr. Morley," said Nell Travers,
bustling out of the house, " suppose you
make yourself useful for once. Just run
to the stables and see whether my dog-cart
is ready, will you ? And if it is, you can
drive it round for me. Don't let the mare
bolt with you, though."

Mr. Morley looked as if he did not half
like the commission. '' Perhaps one of the
servants " he began.

My good man, I can't get them to

attend to me ; so it isn't likely that you'll
get them to attend to you. Don't waste
time, please ; I want to be off."

You will make the poor fellow break
his neck," said Norma reproachfully, as
Mr. Morley retired with reluctant steps.

'* No fear ! In the first place, nothing
would induce him to drive the mare, and
in the second, nothing would induce me tolet
him attempt it. He'll find my groom
in the stable-yard all right. Don't you be
anxious and troubled about your friends,
Norma. They can take precious good care
of themselves, you'll find, and they know
very well what they're about."

Do you think so ? " asked Norma,
smiling.

I'm as sure of it as I am that Sir
Christopher has got a pretty wife, that
Madge has got an adoring husband, that
Mrs. Wilton has secured another rich son-in-law,
and that everybody is satisfied all
round."

And Miss Travers's dog-cart dashing upto

the door at this moment, she climbed
into it, waved a farewell to Norma, and
drove off at a smart trot.

Mr. Morley, who had returned, composedly
picked up the thread of his discourse
where he had dropped it. '* Lady
Shearman," said he, " becomes interesting
from to-day. Hitherto she has been under
the influence of her mother, and it has
been easy to guess how she would act
under any given circumstances ; henceforth
she will be under the nominal control of a
man whom she neither loves nor fears as
yet, and What she will developed into is
quite uncertain. I shall watch her career
with curiosity."

*' I see Mrs. Morley making signs to
you," said Norma, not caring to prolong
the conversation.

Basil Morley was pompous and silly
enough ; yet she could not help feeling
that his comments upon the situation were
more to the point than those of the good-humoured
Nell Travers.

CHAPTER III.

LORD LODDONDALE MAKES A SUGGESTION.

Nowadays it is not usual for any girl to
grow up to womanhood without having
once quitted her native shores ; and if
young people are still as light-hearted and
as easily amused as they always were
(which seems probable, notwithstanding
some loud assertions to the contrary), yet
it cannot be denied that the delightful
sensation of living under conditions of
absolute novelty must, before they have
been twenty years in the world, be no
loDger possible to the majority of them.
But Norma's lot had been an exceptional
one. Her father, always an optimist, had
been perfectly satisfied with his daily
avocations and diversions at Brampton

until the fall in the value of land began
to make him restless, nor had he ever
cared to leave home, except on an occasional
visit to a friend or for a run up to
London. Consequently, when this pair set
off in the late autumn on their way towards
Italy, Norma enjoyed thoroughly every
step of the journey ; and, for the matter of
that, Mr. Shaft enjoyed it as much as she
did. They did not hurry themselves, having
no occasion to do so, but actually halted at
Bologna and Amiens on their way to Paris,
in which latter city they spent ten daj^s
of unmixed pleasure, seeing all the sights,
prowling round the brilliantly lighted
Palais Royal after nightfall, dining at the
various restaurants of which a list had
been handed to Mr. Shaft by the knowing
Lammergeier, and visiting such of the
theatres as had been pronounced by that
authority to be convenables, Mr. Shaft
was very particular in his inquiries upon
that point, and it may be hoped that Baron
Lammergeier made a scrupulous selection ;

but perhaps it wouldn't have mattered
very much if he had not, for, to tell the
truth, neither Norma nor her father were
first-rate French scholars.

It was a joyous time, and Norma often
looked back upon it afterwards with a pain
at her heart. She and her father had
always been the best of friends ; but latterly
they had not seen a great deal of one
another, and he had often been worried
and absent-minded, seeming as if he had
troubles which he would like to talk about
(for it was his nature to talk about his
troubles), yet resenting any leading questions
that might be put to him. Now,
however, all these cares had evidently been
left behind in England, and Mr. Shaft's
chief thought was how he might best
please his daughter. To be sure, that was
not a difficult matter, and there was no
need for him to buy jewellery for her in
the Rue de la Paix in order to accomplish
his end ; still the jewellery was pretty, and
it pleased him to see her wearing it, and it

pleased him even more to find that her
tastes and wishes coincided in all things
with his own.

It's wonderful how well we get on
together, Norma ! " he exclaimed one evening,
beaming at her across the little table
at which they were dining. " An old fellow
like me and a young girl like you — nobody
would believe it. ' Crabbed age and youth,'
you know. But, after all, why should age
be crabbed ? I don't knov/ why that should
be taken for granted."

No doubt he gave himself the larger
share of credit for the happy state of things
to which he alluded ; but if he did, it was
not by Norma that he was in any danger
of being contradicted.

Certainly you are not crabbed," she
answered ; " but then I never think of you
as being old, somehow. In many ways
you seem to me to be younger than I am."

Mr. Shaft laughed, not ill-pleased by
the compliment ; but he pretended to be
vexed. '• Younger than you indeed !

What impudence ! I suppose you mean
that I am more foolish and more easily
taken in. Now, I know very well that is
what you think, Norma ; but if you will
just wait a little bit and judge by results,
you may perhaps alter your opinion."

Well, it was an opportunity; but she
had not the heart to take advantage of it.
Mrs. Lammergeier might talk of her influence
over her father ; but would any
father stand being told by his daughter
that he was too rash in money matters ?
Besides, she hoped that, for the present at
any rate, he was giving himself a holiday.

From Paris the travellers proceeded
slowly southwards by way of Dijon, Avignon,
Marseilles, Cannes, and Nice, pausing
at all these places and making friends
everywhere. Mr. Shaft never denied
himself the amusement of entering: into
conversation with his fellow wanderers.
He did not know what a dangerous practice
this is (for how can yoa tell whether somebody
to whom you have addressed a few

civil words at a table dliote may not turn
lip afterwards in London and claim acquaintance
with you and give no end of
trouble ?). Or perhaps he did know it and
didn't care ; because there never lived a
less calculating man.

So in the natural course of things, Monte
Carlo was reached one fine December evening
; and, being in such a place, it was of
course desirable to take a cursory glance
at those discreditable scenes which have so
often been described in the newspapers.
'^ Not that I believe all the stories one
hears about suicides and other tragedies "
Mr. Shaft said, as he entered the Casino
with his daughter. " Very much exaggerated,
no doubt, and perhaps inventions
of interested persons, as I was assured at
Nice."

At any rate, there was nothing very
tragic in the aspect of the assemblage in
the gaming-rooms. It was a large assemblage,
and it consisted for the most
part of people who were playing either

regularly or intermittently; but none of
them appeared to be in a mood for self-destruction,
nor did any very large sums
of money seem to be changing hands.

'' I suppose," observed Mr. Shaft, after
a time, " one ought just to be able to say
that one has staked a trifle."

Accordingly he fumbled in his waistcoat-pocket,
produced a coin, and laid it down
upon Impair, whence it was presently
swept away by the rake of the croupier.
Not quite liking this, he repeated the stake,
and was awaiting the result of his second
venture with some interest, when Norma
was accosted by a rather loudly dressed
gentleman with reddish hair and sharp
little eyes.

Miss Shaft ! " he exclaimed. " Fancy
your being here ! "

How do you do, Lord Loddondale ?
Ought I not to be here ? " asked Norma,
laughing.

*' Well, I won't go so far as to say that.
Everybody comes here, of course. Only it

isn't exactly the sort of place where one
would have expected to see your

But I assure you I am only a spectator,
and I am going away presently, and I
disapprove of gambling quite as much as
you can."

Oh, I don't disapprove of gambling ;
and if I did, I dare say I should gamble all
the same, because I'm an awful profligate,
as every old woman in London will tell
you. It isn't that — it's the company. I
mean, if I had sisters of my own, I
shouldn't care to have them mixing ina
crowd like this," explained Lord London
who, like many men of his type, had
very strict notions as to what ladies ought
and ought not to do.

And now Mr. Shaft, having won sixty
francs, turned round and became aware
that his daughter was engaged in conversation
with a sporting-looking stranger ;
whereupon Lord Loddondale reminded the
old gentleman that they had met before,
and expressed his great satisfaction at this

opportunity of renewing acquaintance with
a valued friend of bis father's. For some
reason or other, this young magnate of the
turf, whose bad manners were notorious,
seemed anxious upon the present occasion
to make himself very agreeable. He
accompanied Mr. and Miss Shaft as far
as their hotel ; he chatted pleasantly as he
walked beside them in the bright moonlight
; he asked whether he might be
allowed to call, and expressed a hope that
they would not hurry away from Monte
Carlo, " which is really out and out the
most charming place on the Riviera.
Beats everything else hollow in point of
climate ; and there's always plenty of first-rate
music too for those who like it. I
dare say Miss Shaft likes music."

Miss Shaft admitted that she did.
'^ But Lord Loddondale was telling me just
now that he doesn't at all approve of my
being here," she remarked.

'' Oh, that was in the gambling-rooms.
I beg your pardon ; I didn't mean to te

impertinent ; but it's true that I think
ladies are better out of that place. They
can amuse themselves very well at Monte
Carlo without going near it."

I'm quite of your opinion," agreed Mr.
Shaft heartily; "one shouldn't countenance
that kind of thing. The propensity for
gambling is one of the strongest passions
in human nature, and of course it's a bad
passion, and it ought not to be fostered.
I am altogether opposed to legalized
gambling ; though I know there are
arguments which may be brought forward
in favour of it."

Lord Loddondale did not know enough
about Mr. Shaft to be amused by this
declaration of principle ; but Mr. Shaft
knew enough about Lord Loddondale to be
much gratified by the latter's civility.

Now doesn't that show," he exclaimed
to Norma, when they had taken leave of
their escort, " how careful one ought to be
about judging one's neighbours by hearsay !
I have heard the worst possible reports of

VOL. ir. 23

that young man ; yet I'm bound to say
that a more pleasant and gentlemanlike
fellow I never met. He isn't as good-looking
as his brother ; but he seems tome
to be much more simple and straightforward."


A good many persons connected with
the turf would have said that straightforwardness
was not Lord London dale's
most conspicuous quality, and it is a fact
that he considered himself fully entitled
to mystify those whom he suspected of
trying to get the better of him ; but in the
ordinary relations of life he was plain and
outspoken enough, as Norma discovered
no later than on the ensuing morning.

She woke early, with the warm sunshine
streaming through her open window, and
having got up and dressed herself, went
out for a walk before breakfast. She
wandered slowly along the terraces and
through the well-kept gardens, drinking in
the balmy air and marvelling at the
exquisite, soft hues of sea and shore. The

Riviera has been terribly disfigured no
doubt, but the climate and the colouring
and the outline of the hills remain unalterable.
Besides, Norma was not in a position
to draw comparisons, not having seen that
lovely region in the pre-railway era. She
seated herself upon a bench and gazed at
it all, and was satisfied, experiencing that
sensation of pleasure in the mere fact of
being alive which is scarcely attainable in
more northern latitudes. And being in so
happy a mood, she was not annoyed when
Lord Loddondale, clad in an aggressive
check suit, suddenly interposed his person
between her and the prospect, but was
only very much surprised to see him out
of doors at that hour.

Are you always such an early riser ? "
she asked him, after returning his salutation.


Well, yes," he answered ; " I am as a
rule. I don't care about lying in bed after
I'm awake, and there's a good deal inhabit,
you see. What with cub-hunting

1,3HARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

and duck-shooting and one thing and
another, I've got into the way of doing
with less sleep than most men."

A short pause followed ; after which
Norma said, "^ Isn't it a divine morning ? "

Lord Loddondale had seated himself
upon the low wall facing her and was
swinging one of his legs. " Awfully
jolly," he responded rather absently ; and
then, " Shall you stay here long, do you
suppose ? "

Oh no ; we are going on to San Nemo
this afternoon."

Really ? I'm very sorry we are to
lose you so soon ; but, as you're going, I'm
glad I chanced to meet you this morning,
because there are one or two things that
T rather want to say to you. You're
bound for Rome, your father told me."

Yes, eventually. Is there any chance
of your coming on so far ? "

Lord Loddondale shook his head. " Not
likely. I shan't begin hunting till after
Christmas this season ; but that don't give

me rauoh time to spare, you see. However,
you'll meet Walter there. I dare say
you've heard that he has set up his stone-breaking
shop at Rome for the winter. I
don't see why a man should do better
statues in Italy than in England ; but perhaps,
under the circumstances, it's just as
well that he should have a little bit of a
change, eh ? "

Lord Loddondale looked keenly at
Norma as he made this observation, and
she laughed, which appeared to please him.

Ah," said he, " I see you know all
about it, and that's quite the right view to
take of it. It's the view I take myself.
It's a thing to be laughed at ; it never was
serious from the first."

I think it was very serious to him,"
Norma said.

Oh, he fancied so — naturally. One
always does. But you know as well as I
do, and a great deal better perhaps, that
the girl had nothing except her beauty —
and none too much of that. Walter isn't

the sort of man to live happily with a wife
who has only looks ; and so, in my opinion,
he's deuced well — I mean uncommonly
well out of it. I shouldn't wonder if that
was his opinion too by this time."

All this was not a little surprising to
Norma, who had not supposed that Lord
Loddondale took so kindly an interest in
his younger brother. She liked him all
the better for it, though she scarcely knew
what reply to make. ^' Lord Walter was
staying with you when — when he had his
disappointment, was he not ? " she asked at
length.

*' Yes ; he came for a couple of nights.
Rather ridiculous, you know. Of course
the other fellows who were shooting with
me guessed what had happened, though I
made up a yarn about his having been
suddenly called away. But what I wanted
to say to you, Miss Shaft, was that 1 hope
you won't think the worse of poor Walter
for having made an ass of himself in this
way. It isn't so very extraordinary, you

know, that a man should be fascinated fora
time by a little flirt ; it's what we're all
liable to. But as for his having been
really in love with her — don't you believe
it!"

But I do believe it, and I don't think
at all the worse of him for it," said Norma
wonderingly. " Why should I ? "

Lord Loddondale made an impatient
movement. "Oh, well," he said, "perhaps
I express myself badly ; I'm not
much accustomed to this sort of thing.
I had better say straight out what I mean,
and then if you're affronted it can't be
helped. But I'm sure you won't take
offence where none is intended. The long
and the short of it is. Miss Shaft, that
that little Wilton girl wasn't in any way
suited to Walter, and that you are.
Exactly suited to him, I should say. I
won't swear that he's good enough for
you ; but he really is a good fellow, and
always has been. Nobody can call him a
muff — I don't know many better shots

than Walter — but he has never broken
loose and played Old Harry all round, as
I have. He's clever too, and good-looking.
It does seem to me that you might do a
great deal worse."

Norma burst out laughing. Lord
Loddondale's suggestion was too comical
to be disconcerting ; and although he
reddened and looked annoyed at her merriment,
he admitted that his behaviour was
unconventional.

You'll say I might let him speak for
himself. Well, he'll do that, I expect. Of
course I may be mistaken ; only I don't
think I am. I've noticed certain little
things in his manner when we were talking
about you. But all I want to beg of
you is that you won't refuse to listen to
him just because you happen to know that
he once had a fancy for somebody else.
I wish you wouldn't laugh ; it isn't a
joke."

I have no doubt you mean to be kind.
Lord Loddondale," answered Norma ; " and

I will try not to laugh any more, since you
don't like it. But your anxiety to marry
me to a man who has never shown any
personal anxiety in that direction does
seem rather queer and unaccountable."

Not so very, if you will think of it.
I'm not a marrying man, and though I
may live to be seventy, it's more likely
that I shall die comparatively young,
because I'm not altogether sound. I had
a bad fall out hunting two years ago, and
I've never really got over it. It wouldn't
take a great deal to kill me. Well, then,
don't you understand that I should be glad
to see Walter married, and that I should
like him to marry the woman who, if you'll
excuse my bluntness, strikes me as being
the very best and most charming I have
ever met in my life, not excepting my own
mother ? "

Norma looked at her companion, who
presented every appearance of robust health.
It was a little difficult to believe that
anxiety for the perpetuation of his title

could have put this whimsical notion into
his head. He spoke again before she had
time to make any rejoinder.

I know what you're thinking, and
you're quite right ; that isn't my only
reason. Do you know, Miss Shaft, I'm
not such a bear as people make me out. I
should like very much to associate with
ladies sometimes if I could ; only I can't,
because the moment that I attempt it
they begin trying either to marry me
themselves or to marry me to somebody
else. Now, you're not one of that sort ;
and if you were my sister-in-law, perhaps
you would sometimes let me come
and talk to you — which would do me a lot
of good."

But, Lord Loddondale," said Norma,
you are most welcome to come and talk
to me as often as you like, though I am
not your sister-in-law."

** Thanks ; it's awfully good of you to
say that. But I'm afraid it wouldn't be
quite the same thing, would it ? And then

again, I should like to serve Walter a
good turn. As I told you once before, I
have done him out of his inheritance, and
now he won't take anything from me ;
but if he were a married man, I think he
would see that the case was altered. When
I spoke to him about an allowance, I said a
thousand a year ; but I could easily make
it a good deal more than that. Do think
it over. Of course I don't expect you to
promise that you'll take him if he asks
you, or anything of that sort ; only you
might just bear in mind that he won't bea
poor man. You might have Warbury
rent free, and I should be only too pleased
if you would keep the house aired for me ;
because I shall never live there myself.
And as for that silly affair about Miss

Wilton "

But here Lord Loddondale's eloquence
was cut short by the appearance of Mr.
Shaft, who had come out in search of his
daughter, and who was disposed to be a
shade less amiable and talkative than on

the previous evening, not having yet had
his breakfast.

Lord Loddondale was begged to join his
friends at that repast, but excused himself
upon the plea of a previous engagement,
adding that, as he was going to shoot
pigeons that afternoon, he was afraid he
would not be able to see them off at the
station. So presently he took his leave,
with a parting glance at Norma which
recalled the last injunction of Charles the
First to Bishop Juxon.

CHAPTER lY.

Madge's husband.

It has been asserted by some that the
entire devotion of any man, be he who he
may, is never disagreeable to any woman.
This is perhaps putting the case too
strongly, but one may at least hope that
when the woman has gone the length of
marrying the man, she prefers adoration
on his part to neglect. Madge, at all
events during the early days of her married
life, found it quite pleasant to be worshipped
by Sir Christopher Shearman, and liked
him a great deal better than she had ever
imagined it possible that she could. It
was an altogether new sensation to her to
be anticipated in every wish and to be
treated as though her comfort were the

only thing in the world worthy of consideration.
She had one of those natures
which are called affectionate (a term not
necessarily implying any great readiness
to make sacrifices for the sake of affection),
she was fond of people who were kind to
her, and it seemed quite possible that she
might end by becoming fond of Sir
Christopher.

The newly married couple went to the
Lakes to spend tie honeymoon, and got on
wonderfully well while the fine weather
lasted. They visited Windermere and
Coniston and Ulleswater, and, the season
being so far advanced, were not much
plagued by tourists. They were neither
of them people who cared very much for
scenery ; yet after their fashion they enjoyed
the shifting lights and shades upon the hillsides
and the brilliant autumn tints upon
the trees, and every day Sir Christopher took
his wife out in a boat and taught her how
to use an oar, expressing the greatest
surprise and admiration at her proficiency.

It was not very exciting ; but somehow
or other the hours were filled up, and
Lady Shearman, writing at this time to
her friend Miss Shaft, stated in so many
words that she was " as happy as possible."

But at Keswick, alas ! it began to rain ;
and then it was that the dreadful danger of
wedding journeys and the wisdom of those
who set their faces against them became
apparent. Now, every one will allow that
to be shut up in an English hotel, with
nothing to do except to watch the drops
running down the window panes and rap a
falling barometer, is much worse for a man
than it is for a woman. Women can write
letters to their friends or busy themselves
with fancy-work ; but what is to become of
a man who doesn't like reading and who
has already exhausted the newspapers ?
Therefore it was clearly Madge's duty to
try and cheer up her husband, instead of
growing cross and petulant and declaring
outright that she was bored to death.

Sir Christopher was not a good-tempered

man ; moreover, unless lie had some amount
of exercise every day his liver got out of
order; so, when her ladyship made this
rather unkind speech, he swore loudly at
the weather — a thing which he certainly
ought not to have done in her presence,
though the circumstances were enough to
excuse a bishop for forgetting himself.
Madge chose to take his behaviour in very
ill part, and turned her back upon him ;
whereupon he flung out of the room,
muttering in his beard, and did not show
himself again for several hours.

It was only an absurd little tiff, such as
might have occurred between any married
couple, and it was speedily followed by a
reconciliation, Sir Christopher begging
pardon very humbly and calling himself a
brute. Still it served as a warning that
the present situation was fraught with
peril ; so, after dinner that evening, while
her husband, somewhat comforted by a
bottle of champagne, was smoking before
the fire, Madge proposed a change of scene.

"I don't like this place," she said.
*' Don't you think we might make a
move ?

"It's a beastly hole," agreed Sir Christopher
gloomily ; " but I don't know that
one of the others oughtn't be healthier, and
we can't go home yet, because the house
isn't ready to receive us."

But couldn't we try another part of
the country ? Harrogate, for instance, or
Buxton. At least there would be a band
there, and perhaps a club, where you
might meet somebody whom you knew."

Sir Christopher jumped at the suggestion
and rang the bell at once to give the
necessary instructions. Not, he was careful
to explain, that he cared a straw about
a club or about meeting fellows whom he
knew. His wife's company was all that
he wanted.

Well," returned Madge, laughing, " I
am flattered by your saying so ; but, at the
risk of being thought rude, I must confess
that in such weather as this I should like

VOL. II. . 24

nothing better than to come across an
acquaintance."

And it so fell out that she obtained her
wish ; for when, on the succeeding day,
they reached the hotel at Buxton, which
place they had decided upon in preference
to Harrogate, who should accost Madge
but her cousin Mrs. Langley, who, it maybe
remembered, had once given Lord
Walter a cup of tea and an opportunity.
Mrs. Langley 's presence at Buxton was
accounted for by the circumstance that she
had a gouty husband. He limped out
presently and joined the group — a fat,
good-humoured little man, who accepted
his chronic ailment philosophically and
managed to amuse himself in spite of it.
With Sir Christopher he had already a
slight acquaintance, and he was delighted
to see his wife's pretty little cousin, having
a strong predilection for pretty people.

Buxton isn't half a bad place," he told
her. " Do you want to be left to yourselves
? Or shall we take you about and

try to make things as lively as we can for
you ?

Ob, we don't want to be left to ourselves,"
answered Madge, with a promptitude
which made both Mr. and Mrs.
Langley laugh.

The next day was fine, and the Langley
redeemed their promise. They knew everybody
whom it was desirable to know among
the visitors and patients ; they introduced
the new arrivals to these ; some short
expeditions were planned and carried out,
and for a couple of days Lady Shearman
had a very pleasant time of it. Then a
curious thing came to pass. Sir Christopher
had evidently not participated in his wife's
enjoyment. He had been silent and sullen,
and had even made one or two snappish
little speeches to Mrs. Langley ; but Madge
had attached no importance to these
symptoms, knowing that Sir Christopher
was often rude to people whom he did not
happen to fancy. On the third evening,
however, when they had gone upstairs to

their sitting-room, after dining with the
Angles, he astonished her by breaking
out, without any preface, into a torrent of
reproaches.

"If this is the sort of thing that I'm to
expect, I've a nice sort of life before me !
Considering that we haven't been married
a month yet, I should have thought you
might have managed to tolerate my society
for a part of the day at least ; but it seems
that anybody suits you better than your
own husband. Yon are with these people
morning, noon and night. I wonder it
doesn't strike you that perhaps they may
get tired of you, though apparently you
can't get tired of them."

Surely," exclaimed Madge, half laughing,
half frightened (for in truth Sir
Christopher looked very fierce), '' you can't
be jealous of poor fit little Mr. Langley ! "

"Of course not ; I never said anything
about jealousy. I simply state a fact —
which you can't deny."

Yet he really was jealous — not of Mr.

Langley more than of Mrs. Langley, but
of any one, without regard to sex, who
drew his wife's attention away from himself.
Ridiculous as this was, a magnanimous
woman might have pardoned it,
recognizing it as being what it was in
truth, evidence of a love which had
completely overmastered such reason and
self-control as the poor man possessed.
But to Madge it was simply ridiculous.
Sir Christopher made her understand what
he meant, and she despised him for his
folly. Some sharp words passed between
them ; after which he bounced out of the
room, as he had done at Keswick, banging
the door behind him.

Towards ten o'clock Mrs. Langley put
in her head, and having received permission
to enter, came and seated herself by
the fireside.

Madge, my dear," said she, " you have
been quarrelling with your husband ; and
that is a very silly thing to do."

How do you know ? " asked Madge.

"" Because he is drowning his sorrows in
whisky and seltzer at the bar. Now what
is it all about ? "

Madge, when she had a grievance, was
never disposed towards reticence. She
told her cousin what had occurred, and
was not very merciful in her comments
upon Sir Christopher's conduct. " It is so
idiotic and so unmanly," she said. "Atone
moment he positively almost whimpered
; though he began by looking at meas
if he meant to beat me."

Mrs. Langley shrugged her shoulders.
It is idiotic, no doubt," she agreed. '' As
for its being unmanly, I don't know so
much about that. Men when they have
nothing to do with themselves always
become fractious and intractable. If you'll
take my advice, you will propose to Sir
Christopher to go straight home tomorrow.
When he has had some shooting and cub-hunting
to take the nonsense out of him
he'll be right enough, and he won't want
to be tied to your apron-string all day

either. But whatever you do, don't begin
having domestic rows. That system very
seldom pays, and in your case it would
be certain to fail, because, saving your
presence, you have no strength of character
at all."

Mrs. Langley was a good-natured sort
of woman and by no means such a fool
as she was considered to be by some
people. She gave her cousin a few more
sage counsels, the upshot of which was
that when Sir Christopher, already half
ashamed and repentant, slunk in about
midnight, he was met by a smiling little
woman who placed a hand upon each of
his shoulders and said, *' Christopher, shall
we be friends again ? I'm tired of Buxton
and I'm tired of the Langley, and I think
it would be very nice if we were to go
home at once. Shall we ? "

So the new tenants of Brampton Priory
took possession of their abode ; and for a
few weeks all went smoothly and well.
As Mrs. Langley had predicted, Sir Christopher

was reduced to a more amiable
frame of mind by open-air sports, and
Madge found plenty of occupation and
amusement in arranging the furniture
and receiving the visits of the neighbours.
Brampton was a fine old Elizabethan
mansion, with many spacious reception-rooms
; and although of late years the
gardens and conservatories had been shorn
of much of their former glory by reason of
the straitened circumstances of the owner.
Sir Christopher had supplied what was
lacking there with a liberal hand, besides
having, with his landlord's permission,
made considerable additions and improvements
to the inner decoration of the house.
You're very much smartened up,"
observed Miss Travers, who drove over
in a high dog-cart to pay her respects to
Madge shortly after the latter's installation,
"but, to be frank with you, I don't much
fancy these alterations. Our old friends
couldn't afford to live here any longer, and
as they had to find tenants, I suppose you

will do as well as anybody else ; but you
needn't keep reminding us at every turn
that you are so much better off than they
are. It hurts our feelings."

But not all Lady Shearman's visitors
where so outspoken or so uncivil as this ;
nor perhaps was it the case that their
feelings were hurt by the contrast between
the present and the late denizens of Hampton.
Riches have a definite value all the
world over, and people who can afford to
entertain largely must be regarded as an
acquisition in any county. Amongst others
who were so good as to express their satisfaction
that Lady Shearman's marriage
had not severed her from the neighbourhood
in which her childhood had been
spent was Mr. Basil Morley, who called
one afternoon, bearing an apology from his
mother.

She is quite shut up at present with a
bad cold," he said ; '' but I did not wish
to wait for her recovery before offering my
own humble welcome."

Thanks ; but I shouldn't have thought
that any sentiment of yours could possibly
be humble, Mr. Morley," answered Madge,
who had been a good deal snubbed by the
supercilious Basil in days gone by.

He hastened to explain that he was in
reality a very modest man. Many people,
he was aware, thought otherwise, and it
was scarcely worth while to correct them ;
but, as a fact, no one was more conscious
of fallibility than he. " I often make mistakes
; doubtless we all do," he added,
sighing. " It is lucky for us if our mistakes
are not of an irremediable nature.
I suppose your — Sir Christopher doesn't
spend much of his time at home, does
he?"

'' My — Sir Christopher always comes
home in time to dress for dinner," answered
Madge demurely. " He doesn't
come home to tea, because tea isn't in his
line. It is in yours, I know, so I'll ring
and order it."

Thank you very much," said Mr.

Morley ; and when the tea was brought he
drank it as if he enjoyed it, doing full
justice to the buttered toast which was
provided lor him at the same time. Also
he continued his interrogations, the drift of
which could not have been misinterpreted
by the most obtuse of women. He was
evidently curious to find out how" the new
menage was getting on, and Madge amused
herself by hinting that she had still some
unsatisfied longings, thereby earning the
sorrowful sympathy of her questioner.

He said, " There is nothing sadder in*
this sad world. Lady Shearman, than the
acknowledgment which most of us have to
make sooner or later, that our lives are a
failure. We are only here for a very short
time, and whether any future state of being
is in store for us is a mere matter of conjecture
; so that if we have to pass our
present existence under conditions which
are distasteful to us, we can't but doubt
whether it would not have been better
never to have been born at all."

I haven't got quite so far as that yet,"
remarked Madge. '* Have you ? "

Mr. Morley passed his hand across his
forehead and sighed again. He was rather
fond of sighing. "I think," said he, "that
I may possibly leave ray mark upon the
literature of the age. If I am destined todo
so, I shall not have lived altogether in
vain, and upon the chance of it, I am at
least resigned to linger for a while upon
the surface of this dull planet. You will
agree that it is dull — at any rate, that the
greater part of its inhabitants are."

I don't know the greater part of them,"
answered Madge ; " so I can't say."

Quite so ; but whether we speak of
Stourshire or of Europe makes very little
difference, I fear, so far as the proportion
of intelligent to unintelligent beings is concerned.
Look at our good neighbours in
these parts — what are they? Mere cyphers,
leading a purely animal existence. Miss
Shaft was an exception."

Norma," said Madge, " would be an

exception anywhere. She is worth all the
rest of us put together."

Mr. Morley made a little bow, as if a
compliment had been paid to himself. " I
am glad," said he, '' that you appreciate
one of the noblest characters that I have
ever studied. But Miss Shaft, unhappily,
has left us, and you now occupy her
place."

I am sorry to be such an unworthy
substitute," answered Madge ; " but it can't
be helped."

Then Mr. Morley assumed that winning
smile which had exposed him more often
than he had any idea of to the risk of
being publicly assaulted. " My dear Lady
Shearman," said he, ^^ to draw comparisons
between two persons so dissimilar, yet both
so charming, would be absurd. What I
meant to imply was that, since we have
lost the one, we ought to be very thankful
indeed to have gained the other."

Before Madge could make any reply, the
door was thrown open, and in marched Sir

Christopher, clad in cords, leather gaiters,
and shooting boots.

How do you do ? " said Mr. Morley,
rising languidly to greet the new-comer.

Oh — Mr. Crawley, isn't it ? How are
you ? " returned Sir Christopher rather
gin^y. And, having shaken hands,
he planted himself upon the hearthrug,
with his coat-tails gathered up under his
arms.

I suppose," pursued Mr. Morley presently,
'' that you have been indulging
in the Englishman's usual recreation of
slaughter."

I've been rabbiting, if that's what you
mean," answered Sir Christopher shortly.
'' Aren't we dining out somewhere to-night,
Madge ? "

Mr. Morley took the hint. He prided
himself upon his readiness to take hints ;
and indeed, if these were made sufficiently
broad, he sometimes detected them. He
picked up his hat and stick and said he
was afraid he must tear himself away ; but

what convinced him that he had produced
that favourable impression upon his hostess
which he flattered himself that he usually
did produce upon those whose society he
sought was that Madge, in bidding him
good-bye, added —

You must look us up again, Mr. Morley.
Won't you come and dine some evening ?
Thursday next, for instance ? "

The truth was that the compliments and
innuendoes of the poet had rather pleased
her. He was, of course, an egregious goose ;
but he was entertaining in his way, and
her husband was very apt to fall asleep
after dinner.

No sooner had Mr. Morley graciously
accepted this invitation and retired
than Sir Christopher's wrath exploded.
"What, in the name of all that's extraordinary,
possessed you to ask that beast to
dinner ? "

"Is he a beast?" inquired Madge
innocently.

Is he a beast! Well, I suppose that's

a question that a woman might ask ; but
I'll be hanged if I believe there's a man in
all the length and breadth of England who
would."

Poor Mr. Morley ! What has he
done ? "

Ah, that's just what I should like to
know. What has he done ? The fellow is
so conceited he can hardly stand ; and yet,
so far as I can make out, he has never done
anything since the day of his birth except
eat and drink and disfigure the face of
creation."

'• I believe he has read a great deal,"
said Madge ; " that is something."

Then, all of a sudden, Sir Christopher
became really angry. " Oh, Tery well,"
he returned ; "if you like him there's no
more to be said ; but I can't congratulate
you upon your taste. As you have asked
him to dine, he must come for this once, I
suppose ; but T won't have him here again
mind that. I know very well what brutes
of that kind are after when they take to

dropping in at five o'clock. The amazing
thing to me is that you can tolerate him.
It makes me feel sick only to look at the
fellow ! "

And with that Sir Christopher stumped
off to dress.

VOL. II. 25

CHAPTER Y.

MRS. WALTER.

From the outsider's point of view, there
was something to be said for Sir Christopher
Shearman. He was madly in love with
his wife, and his absurd jealousy of anyone,
man or woman, whose company she
showed the slightest sign of preferring to
his own was, affcer all, only the exaggeration
of a sentiment with which we all are,
or ought to be, able to sympathize. Yet it
must be admitted that to be married to a
person of Sir Christopher's temperament
would be a sort of purgatory; and this
was what Madge very soon found it to be.
That he should be jealous of Bvisil Morley
was silly and annoying ; but Basil Morley

might very well be dispensed with for the
sake of a quiet life : the sacrifice would not
be a heavy one. One cannot, however, cut
one's self off from the society of all one's
friends, including one's own mother ; and
Sir Christopher, who had been uncommonly
civil to Mrs. Wilton in the days of his
courtship, now gave it to be understood in
so many words that he did not want to
have his mother-in-law "always poking
about the place." He suspected, it seemed,
that his wife hatched plots or made complaints
of him when his back was turned.
He was for ever suspecting something ;
and although he was ready enough to
apologize and make friends again when
once he had reduced Madge to tears, that
did not prevent him from behaving in
exactly the same way on the following day.
Such a system is about as wise as that
adopted by certain schoolmasters of accusing
boys of offences which cannot be proved
against them. " If I am to be flogged in
any case," thinks the boy, not unnaturally,

"I will at least have the satisfaction of
deserving it."

Into this perilous condition of mind
Madge was rapidly drifting ; but, fortunately
for her, her temptations were few.

For the rest, she was not exactly unhappy
— riches and the material enjoyments
which riches bring having still the charm
of novelty for her. Only she was a good
deal bored at times and puzzled how to fill
up the long vacant hours. Norma, she
remembered, had never been bored, but
had, on the contrary, been always busy ;
but then Norma had been perpetually
running about among the poor people.
Well, she too would visit the poor. It was
one of the duties belonging to her station,
and she thought it might even be rather
amusing to perform it. So she visited the
poor, and was very well received by them.
She interested herself in the clothing-club
and the cottage hospital and so forth ; also
she dispensed her pocket-money freely (for
Sir Christopher made her a noble allowance),

thereby earning showers of benedictions.


In a few weeks," wrote the rector of
the parish, who kept up a correspondence
with Miss Shaft, " your friend Lady Shear-man
has done more mischief in the way of
demoralizing our people than I could set
right in a year, if it were in my power to
drive her out of the country tomorrow."

Madge laughed when this worthy man
remonstrated with her, and told him that
she could not make herself as hard-hearted
as he was. To care for heavy, brutish
Hodge and his grumbling wife and his
dirty children as Norma cared for them
was impossible to her ; but she liked very
well to play the part of Lady Bountiful and
to trip into cottage after cottage, followed
by a powdered footman who carried a
basket.

Being in the village one afternoon,
engaged in errands of mercy, and for once
having neither footman nor carriage with
her, she took refuge from a passing shower

at the Shaft Arms. Mr. Green, the bald-headed
landlord, came bustling out from
behind the bar, bowing low over his folded
hands. Would her ladyship please to step
into the parlour ?

"We've bin obliged to give up our parlour
to my niece Mrs. Walter, as has come down
to stay with us in a very poor state of
'earth, I'm sorry to say ; but if your ladyship
would condescend to excuse of her
been' in the room, there's a nice fire burning',
hand I may say every comfort."

Mr. Green was evidently proud both of
his niece and of his parlour ; and Madge
did not wonder at this when, having
graciously acceded to his request, she was
shown into a very prettily furnished room
and into the presence of a tall, handsome
woman, dressed in black, who, as the door
opened, started up from the sofa upon which
she had been reclining.

** Lady Shearman, of Brampton Priory,
my dear," Mr. Green announced. " Her
ladyship has been overtook by the rain

and is doing us the honour to shelter herself
under our 'humble roof."

Please don't let me disturb you," said
Madge, advancing towards the sofa as the
landlord withdrew ; *' I am sorry to hear
that you are ill."

"" Oh, I'm dying," answered the woman
in black quietly. " With these chest complaints
one never knows exactly how long
a person may last ; but it can't be many
months in my case, the doctors tell me,
and it seems natural to come home to die.
A sort of instinct, I suppose."

It is also an instinct with most people to
contradict those who declare themselves to
be dying ; but Madge looked at the waxen
complexion and hollow cheeks of the
speaker and felt that it would be a mockery
to say what she had been going to say.
This Mrs. Walter, notwithstanding her
worn and wasted appearance, had the
remains of great beauty. Her eyes were
large and dark ; her black hair was
abundant, and her features were finely

chiselled. Her manner and speech, too,
were somewhat more refined than one
would expect those of an innkeeper's niece
to be.

You belong to these parts, then ? '*
asked Madge at length.

Yes, my lady, and I remember you well;
though you wouldn't remember me. There
was a deal of talk in this neighbourhood
six years ago when Bessie Green ran away
from her uncle's house, and I dare say a
good many didn't credit the story of her
being married to a rich gentleman of the
name of Walter. However, seeing is believing
; and here is Mrs. Walter back,
as a widow, bringing her fortune with
her."

This was said composedly enough, yet
with a slight bitterness of intonation
which made Madge fancy that the incredulity
of the neighbourhood might not
be wholly groundless. However, she asked
no questions, but began, as her custom was,
to chatter about herself, mentioning that

she found life at Brampton a little bit dull,
and that she was unable to feel that absorbing
interest in the poor of the district
which had made Miss Shaft so popular.

One is glad to do what one can to help
them, of course," she said ; '• but the truth
is that they are not very interesting."

Mrs. Walter smiled. " They are not at
all interesting to such as you, my lady,"
she answered, ^' because they wouldn't
think it worth while to tell you about anything
except their illnesses and misfortunes.
Still you have your own class to associate
with. I have left my class and I haven't
got into any other ; so that for six years I
may say I have lived alone, and now I see
nobody from morning to night, except
my uncle and aunt and the doctor, when
he comes. That makes a person willing
enough to die."

It sounded a miserable sort of existence
to lead, and Madge was touched by a
grievance which her own temperament
enabled her to enter into thoroughly.

Would it amuse you at all to see me if
I looked in sometimes ? " lie asked.

The woman's face brightened up. " Indeed
it would, my lady ! It would be a
real kindness. I've nothing to do but to
read, and often I'm too tired for reading,
so I just lie here and think and think, and
wish the end would come."

Thus was initiated what speedily became
almost a friendship. The sick woman took
a great fancy to Lady Shearman, perhaps
because, as is the case with many sick
people, the mere sight of health and beauty
refreshed her, perhaps because she somewhat
overestimated the kindness of heart
which prompted her ladyship's visits.
Madge, for her part, was much interested
in Mrs. Walter, whose history, she was
sure, must be of a more romantic nature
than had as yet appeared, and who, she
hoped, might eventually feel impelled to
divulge some of its episodes.

This hope was fulfilled quite abruptly
one afternoon, when Madge, after paying a

round of calls, stopped her carriage at the
Shaft Arms and entered the little sitting-room
where Mrs. Walter was, as usual,
lying on the sofa before the fire. The
latter listened half-abstractedly for a while
to what Madge (who was apt to be imprudently
outspoken) had to say about the
inanity of the ladies whom she had found
at home, and then remarked, with a sigh —

"Well, it's odd how one's notions change!
There was a time when I'd have given
anything to be able to say I was on visiting
terms with Lady This or Mrs. That ;
but now I shouldn't care about it if I could
have it. It's not that the grapes are sour
either. If I was well and strong again
tomorrow I shouldn't want to live with
my husband or to mix with his friends.
My husband isn't dead, and his name isn't
Walter. I dare say you've guessed that."

Madge shook her head wonderingly.
Who is your husband, then ? " she asked.

It's curious," answered the woman,
smiling, " that nobody hereabouts should

have suspected the truth, but, to the best of
my belief, nobody ever has, and I'd rather
it wasn't known yet, though after I'm dead
I suppose it won't matter much. Will you
kindly keep it secret, my lady, if I answer
your question ? "

Madge having at once given the desired
promise, Mrs. Walter resumed : "I've had
an unhappy life, and nobody but myself is
to blame fur it ; I know that now. I was
a nasty-tempered girl, as my aunt could
tell you, and I was an ambitious girl
too, and I married a man whom I didn't
care a pin's head about, for the sake
of the position he never gave me. You
don't recollect Lady Loddondale. She died
before you came to these parts; and the old
Lord was so cut up about his loss that he
closed Warbury Park, and, I believe, never
saw the place again to the day of his death.
But one of his sons used to run down fora
day or two at a time to consult with
the bailiff or the land-steward ; and so it
happened that, as I was walking through

the woods on a summer's evening, I met a
young gentleman who spoke to me, and we
got talking, and he asked me to meet him
again, and — and there ! I needn't tell you
all the rest. I was a handsome girl then —
there's no harm in my saying so, now that
I'm such a scarecrow — and he fell overhead
and ears in love with me, and the end
of it was that I consented to run away to
London with him and be married privately.
He told me that his name was Lord Walter
Sinclair "

"Lord Walter! " ejaculated Madge aghast.

So he told me. I never loved him ;
but I was pleased and flattered that he
should love me, and I was willing to live
quietly in the house that he took for me
under the name of Mrs. Walter and wait
until his father died ; because he said it
would mean ruin for us both if he acknowledged
me while there was still time for
Lord Loddondale to alter his will. He
soon got tired of me, and I'm sure I don't
wonder at it ; for I didn't make things

pleasant for him. You see, I led the
dullest kind of life; because he wouldn't
be seen anywhere with me, and he was
always away at race meetings, and, as
I told you before, I have a nasty temper,
and he himself was given to be peppery ;
so "

I can't help thinking that there is some
mistake," interrupted Madge. " What was
he like, this man whom you call Lord
Walter Sinclair ? "

He was not handsome," replied Mrs.
Walter composedly. " His hair was reddish,
and he shaved his face clean like
a groom."

Then," exclaimed Madge, with some excitement,
" he was not Lord Walter at all ;
and my firm belief is that, if your marriage
was a real one — but I suppose it couldn't
be, as he gave a wrong name ? — you are
Marchioness of Loddondale."

"I am quite aware of that, my lady,"
answered the Marchioness, with a slight
smile. " I found out long ago who my

husband was, and a terrible fright I had
till I heard from a lawyer that the marriage
held good, in spite of the fraudulent entry
of one of the parties. Indeed, it was about
that that we fell out finally ; though we
were quite ready to quarrel before. He
was a curious man ; he always wanted to begetting
the better of somebody, and from
the very first he suspected that I had more
fancy for being a lady than for being his
wife. That was why he pretended to be
Lord Walter ; because I might have given
myself out as Lady Carbury, and, the
property being entailed, his father couldn't
have ruined him. ' You can claim your
rights,' he said, the day when we parted ;
I'm your husband, safe enough. But you
can't make me live with you.' "

And you didn't claim your rights ? "
No ; for I had found out by that time
that they would be of very little use to me.
I shouldn't have been received. If I had
had children it might have been different ;
but I had got disheartened, and my health

was beginning to give way, and I only
wished to be left in peace. He was very
liberal to me. He gave me an allowance
large enough to keep me in comfort, and
since be came into the title be has settled
a handsome sum of money upon me, wbicb
my uncle and aunt will get when I'm
gone."

Does be know bow ill you are ? "
asked Madge, after a pause.

*' Not be ! He never asks any questions.
But be knows I'm here ; I thought be bad
better be told of that : and I expect that's
why Warbury Park is shut up. I had
a request through the lawyers that I would
move elsewhere, and an offer of a bouse
in any other part of England that I liked
to name ; but I answered that I meant to
stay where I was. He must put up with
this little inconvenience ; it won't be for
long."

'' And you might have been living at
Warbury now, with all sorts of luxuries
and heaps of servants to attend to you, and

and everything ! " was Madge's not
unnatural comment upon this startling
narrative.

Do you think so, my lady ? He's
bound to maintain me, of course ; but I'm
not sure that he's bound to give me one
of his houses to live in. Anyway, I would
rather die here than there. And, do you
know, my lady, I think I've got as good
as I deserve. It's only the truth to say
that I didn't behave well to him, and if
I've shown some consideration for him by
not claiming all that I might have claimed
well, perhaps we may cry quits. A
woman who marries for a title or for money
doesn't deserve to be very happy, does she ?
And I expect that most of the women who
do that find out sooner or later that they
have married for what they don't really
care about. Then they mustn't blame their
husbands."

Whether this last observation was intended
to bear any special significance
Madge could not feel quite certain ; but

VOL. II. 26

she suspected that it was, and, for the time
being, the suspicion rather checked the
flow of her sympathy with her confidant.
However, she paid many subsequent visits
to the so-called Mrs. Walter, who, notwithstanding
her hardness of manner, was not
ungrateful, and who always listened with
a great deal of patience to the murmurs
which (in the absence of Norma Shaft)
Madge did not venture to breathe to anyone
else.

CHAPTER YI.

LORD WALTER RECOVERS HIS SANITY.

Rome (historical associations apart) is about
as well fitted to be the capital of Italy as
Athens is to be the capital of Greece ; butin
neither case, probably, could any other
selection have been made ; so that there is
nothing for the Italians and the Greeks todo
but to make the best of what can't be
helped. The best that can be made,
however, is not good and not convenient ;
and those of us who are old enough to
remember Rome under the picturesque old
Papal regime may be permitted to drop a
silent tear over the very clean sweep
achieved by the new brooms. Walter
Sinclair, not having visited Italy daring
his childhood, was not old enough to be

distressed by any reminiscences of the
period alluded to, and was consequently
very well pleased with the city which
remains what it always has been — the
head-quarters of sculptors. He was lucky
enough to obtain upon very moderate
terms, from a friend whose health compelled
him to return to England, the lease
of a commodious studio in the Via Sistina ;
and, as he arrived very early in the season,
he had few temptations to neglect the
work to which he had determined to consecrate
all his energies.

At the same time, it is not wholesome
for anybody to work all day and every day
without relaxation ; nor would he have
been suffered to do so if he had desired it.
He had a few artistic acquaintances in the
place, and these soon introduced him to
others ; also he knew the Embassy people,
whose hospitality it was impossible to
decline. Then, as the weather grew colder,
the annual influx of English immigrants
began to pour in ; and amongst them was

his ait Lady Spencer Sinclair, a well-to-do
widow, whose winters were always
spent in one southern city or another, and
whose little dinners were as famous as
they deserved to be, seeing that it was her
habit to take her French cook about with
her. Lord Walter, of course, had to dine
with his aunt, and, equally of course, he
met at her table persons with whom he
subsequently had to dine. The truth is
that it is by no means easy for the brother
of a marquis to lead the life of a hermit or
to brood in solitude over any sorrows with
which he may be afflicted. In vain he
protested that he did not mean to go into
society that winter : it was pointed out to
him with unquestionable truth that meeting
half a dozen friends at dinner, or visiting
picture-galleries and making excursions
with them, is not going into society ; and
indeed he was not very unwilling to be
convinced by such arguments. After all,
he had come to Rome to be cured of his
complaint, not to nurse it ; and if he was

sometimes a little ashamed of the rapidity
with which the cure was being effected, he
was quite as often and quite as much
ashamed of requiring any cure at all. For
he saw now how ridiculous it had been on
his part to fall in love with Madge Wilton ;
he saw that he had been fascinated, not by
that young lady herself, but simply by her
face and by certain little ways and tricks
that she had ; and his sensations, now that
he had recovered his self-command, were
very much those of one who, waking out
of a vivid dream in which he has conducted
himself like a lunatic, draws in his
breath and thanks Heaven that he is not
what he mj'ght have been. Lord Walter,
but for the fortunate circumstance that his
means were small, might have been the
husband of a woman whom he would have
ceased to love as soon as he found her out ;
and it was hardly to be supposed that he
could have lived six months with her
without finding her out.

One Sunday afternoon, having nothing

else to do, he strolled into the church of
the Trinity de' Month at the hour of
vespers. The music at that church is still
good, though perhaps not quite as good as
it used to be, and the light is always dim,
and the faint smell of incense and the
solemn chanting do not fail to produce a
certain impressive effect upon the emotional
heretic. Lord Walter had been impressed
there upon several previous occasions, and
doubtless would have been so again if,
quite at the beginning of the service, his
attention had not been attracted by a face
near the doorway which interested him to
the extent of making him forget everything
else in the pleasure of watching it. He
was naturally pleased to see Miss Shaft
again, and indeed he had been wondering
for some time past whether she would
make her appearance in Rome, as she had
said that she might possibly do ; but what
struck him at the moment as it had never
struck him before was the perfect beauty,
not only of her features, but of her expression.

She was listening to the music,
if he was not, and she seemed to have been
carried away by it ; for her lips were
slightly parted and there was a bright,
eager light in her eyes, and Lord Walter,
gazing at her, thought to himself that if
she had lived in the time of Raphael, she
would certainly have been immortalized.
However, all things considered, he was
not sorry that her advent into a world
inhabited so largely by ugly persons had
been deferred until the latter part of the
nineteenth century. For the moment weare
without a Raphael ; but we have artists
among us who can at least reproduce the
lineaments of a lovely face, not to speak of
sculptors who would be very glad to do
their best in that direction if they might
be allowed to try. The aspiring young
sculptor who was watching Miss Shaft
now had ample opportunity for studying
her, because, as she was so much taller
than her neighbours, her profile wag
clearly defined against the dark background

of the curtain which hung before
the doorway. He had made up his mind
that he must really ask her to sit to him,
and had had time to identify her with
numerous allegorical and saintly subjects
when the service came to an end and he
pushed his way through the crowd towards
her.

He reached her side just as she was in
the act of stepping into the carriage that
was waiting for her ; but as soon as she
recognized him, she turned round and
descended on to the pavement again.

I am so glad to see you ! " she exclaimed
heartily. " I have been hoping
ever since we arrived that we might come
across you somewhere."

Then she told the coachman that he
could go away, and, turning to Lord
Walter, " Perhaps you will kindly see meas
far as the Piazza Bartering," she said,
smiling ; '' it won't take you very long."

But it seemed that she was in no great
hurry to be taken home ; for when he had

expressed his willingness to be her escort,
she did not at once set her face in that
direction, but moved slowly towards the
top of the steps which lead down to the
Piazza di Spagna, and stood gazing at
the city beneath her, and the great dome
of St. Peter's, and the stone-pines above
San Pietro in Montorio, which showed
purple against the sunset glow.

Isn't it perfect ? " she exclaimed suddenly.
" I can't think how anybody can
be disappointed in Rome ! "

Nor can I, if you speak of it as a
whole," he replied. " Some of the details
are a little disappointing perhaps at first
sight, and the new quarter is incomparably
hideous. For my own part, I may say
that Rome has more than answered my
expectations ; but then my expectations
were not extravagantly high. Anyhow, I
have attained my object in coming here."

Yes ? " she said, with a quick glance
at him. " Your object, I suppose, was to
study ancient and modern art in a place

where you were sure of meeting with the
best examples of both."

My object," he answered sturdily (for
this was a thing which had to be said, and
as he did not much like saying it, he
thought he would get it over as quickly as
possible), *' was to rid myself of the remains
of an attack of insanity ; and I have succeeded.
I am now quite sane."

Well," said Norma, after a momentary
pause, *' I am glad of that ; though I don't
know why you should wish to make out
that you were ever insane. It is a pity to
set one's heart on things that one can't
have ; but it isn't crazy, and one can't
always help it."

Oh, one can't help it, if that is any
consolation, and I quite agree with you
that there's nothing crazy in wishing for
what one can't have. But it is more or
less crazy to imagine that people are what
they quite obviously are not."

But is that what you imagined ? "

I suppose so. I can't exactly tell what

I imagined ; but, whatever it may have
been, it certainly wasn't the truth, and it
doesn't seem to me that I was altogether
responsible for my vain imaginings. Now
I have come to my senses again, and I
don't feel particularly proud of that episode
in my life, and I should like to forget it."

I dare say that is the best thing you
can do," said Norma. But in her heart she
thought that he ought not to have been
able to forget quite so easily ; and if he
wanted her to think well of him — as he
undoubtedly did — he was setting to work
rather clumsily.

I hope you will honour my studio with
a visit one of these days," said he, by way
of changing the subject. " I am close by
this, in the Via Sistina, and I have really
been very busy since I came to Rome, so
that there will be more of my handiwork
for you to criticise here than there was in
London."

Did you ever finish that statue of
Elizabeth of Hungary ? " asked Norma.

How can you ask such a question !
Didn't you condemn it utterly ? "

I didn't mean to do that ; and besides,
if I had, what could it possibly have signified
? I am no judge."

Oh, excuse me ; I think you are as
good a judge as anybody of the particular
point that you fastened upon ; and London
is a very fair judge of anatomy. He
told me Queen Elizabeth had a game leg
which was quite true."

Norma laughed. " Do you know, we
met your brother at Monte Carlo," said
she ; and then she remembered her conversation
with Lord Loddondale and
laughed again, the memory causing her no
embarrassment.

"Loddondale never writes to me," remarked
Lord Walter, " and I never know
where he is or what he is doing. He is a
queer sort of fellow."

Yes, I think he is rather queer in
some ways," agreed Norma ; " but I like
him, and I wish he would make up his

mind to marry some nice girl. He is not
nearly as rough and rude as he pretends
to be."

Now, Lord Walter had a shrewd suspicion
that if his brother's hand and heart
were ever offered to anybody, Norma
Shaft would be the lady thus favoured,
and this was an event which could not be
contemplated with satisfaction or approval.
Loddondale and Norma Shaft ! — it was a
kind of desecration to couple their names
together.

I don't think, you know," he said
presently, " that Loddondale could ever be
domesticated. His wife would have to bea
person of strong sporting tastes ; and
even then "

He spoke very kindly about you,"
observed Norma.

"Did he? Well, I hope I am not
speaking unkindly about him. I believe
we are as good friends as our very opposite
dispositions will allow us to be. My old
aunt, Lady Spencer, who is here now, says

she means to take the head of the family
in hand when she goes back to London
and rouse him to a sense of his social
duties. I have begged her to let me be
present at the interview, which is likely to
be a brief and animated one."

Papa knows Lady Spencer Sinclair,"
remarked Norma. " He met her the other
day ; and this morning we had a note from
her asking us to join a picnic to Frascati
and Monte Cave. Will you be of the
party by any chance ? "

She invited me, and I refused,"
answered Lord Walter ; " but since you
are going, I think I'll withdraw my refusal
and give myself a holiday."

Do," said Norma ; " I am sure it will
be good for you."

But somehow or other she did not speak
very enthusiastically, and he could not
help noticing that her manner was less
warm by several degrees than it had been
at the opening of their conversation. That
this was in any way due to the facility

with which he had got over a misplaced
attachment did not occur to him ; only, as
they had now reached the entrance of the
Hotel Bristol, where the Shaftos were
staying, he thought he would postpone to
a more favourable opportunity the request
which he had resolved to make. It is not
everybody who cares to pose as a model,
and he knew very well that, if Miss Shaft
did consent to sit to him, he would have to
trespass considerably upon her time and
patience before he would be able to satisfy
himself. So he took his leave, saying, " We
shall meet again tomorrow then, I hope."

Without further loss of time, he went to
call upon his aunt, who said, " Come by
all means, if you like ; only you will have
to ride, I'm afraid, because the carriages
will be full. I offered the place in mine
which you wouldn't take to young Grey,
who jumped at it when I told him that
Miss Shaft was coming with me."

You forgot to hold out that inducement
to me."

Well, I didn't know about it at the
time, and I don't know much about her
now. Is she so very attractive ? "

Perhaps not in the sense that you
mean ; but she is very beautiful, and I
want to get her to sit for me. Anyhow,
you will have to leave your carriage at
Frascati, 1 suppose."

It was with this anticipation that Lord
Walter had to comfort himself on the
following day, as he cantered across the
brown Campagna towards the Allan hills.
He was not the only equestrian, and he
did not enjoy the society of a lively and
pretty little American lady as much as no
doubt he would have done had he been
able to listen to a word that she was
saying. For every now and then they
came in sight of Lady Spencer's carriage,
and each time that they did so he saw Mr.
Grey, that good-looking young Secretary
of Embassy, making himself as agreeable
as he could (and that was very agreeable
indeed) to Norma. Now, to see any man

VOL. II. 27

making himself agreeable to Miss Shaft
was what Walter Sinclair had always disliked
extremely. This, it must be admitted,
was selfish of him ; but he couldn't help it,
nor could he help being annoyed with that
fellow Grey, who really might have been
contented with the half-dozen or so of
flirtations which he already had in hand.
Miss Shaft was not for the likes of Grey,
and he was a little surprised at her caring
to listen to the sort of prattle which Grey
affected.

When Frascati was reached, and when
those who did not feel disposed to attempt
a fatiguing ascent under a hot sun took
advantage of the donkeys that were in
waiting, he thought his turn had come
and resolutely attached himself to Miss
Shaft ; but what is the use of trying to
talk sensibly if you are to be interrupted at
every other word by the irrelevant rubbish
of a garrulous young diplomatist ? Lord
Walter very soon had to acknowledge himself
defeated, and, falling back to the rear.

said to himself that he had wasted a day
by joining this stupid picnic.

Nevertheless, the picnic was pronounced
a great success ; and perhaps Lord Walter
was the only person present who thought
otherwise. The view from the summit of
Monte Cave over the undulating Campagna,
with its ruined aqueducts, to the blue mist
which hung over Rome and to snowy
Horace in the far distance was all that
could be desired. So, too, were the viands
and wines provided by Lady Spencer
Sinclair. Lady Spencer always did things
well. She had selected her company with
care and forethought ; and was she in anyway
to blame because a capricious nephew
of hers had chosen to tack himself on to
the party at the last moment and consequently
found himself in the undesirable
position of odd man out ? As for Norma,
she thought Mr. Grey very amusing —
which indeed he was — and delighted in
the scenery and the clear air and the
remains of old Tusculum, which were duly

inspected ; and lie was quite astonished
when, at the end of a pleasant day, Lord
Walter, profiting by the momentary
absence of the officious Grey, who had
gone to summon the carriages, said crossly,
*' Thank Heaven, that is over ! "

Haven't you been enjoying yourself? "
she asked. '^ I am so sorry. I thought
everybody seemed to be in such good
spirits."

I suppose," observed Lord Walter,
you didn't happen to look at me. At
least, if you did, and if I appeared to be in
good spirits, I may conscientiously score
one ; because I don't know when in my
life I have been more completely sold. I
came here simply and solely with the hope
of being able to talk to you, and I think
we have exchanged about half a dozen
words during the day."

Oh — but had you anything particular
to say ? " asked Norma wonderingly.

Nothing particular ; but I should have
been glad to be allowed the privilege of

offering a few general remarks. Not, of
course, that I could have hoped to be as
entertaining as Grey."

Norma stared at him for a moment and
then began to laugh. " This is very
flattering," she said. " Do you often make
such speeches ? If you do, I should think
you must sometimes be misunderstood by
inexperienced people."

Why ? I suppose anybody, experienced
or inexperienced, can understand that it is
rather provoking to see a friend whom you
want to talk to monopolized the whole day
by somebody else."

Well," said Norma good-humouredly,
you must come and talk to me some other
time. I am almost always at home after
sunset, because papa is in mortal terror of
my catching Roman fever, and I should be
very glad to see you any day when you
have nothing better to do."

There was surely nothing to complain of
in so kind an invitation as that ; yet, for
some reason or other, Walter Sinclair rode

back to Eome in a bad Humour, and the
little American lady subsequently declared
him to be the dullest Englishman whom
she had ever met. Which, she was cruel
enough to add, was saying a great deal.

CHAPTER Iii.

BASIL MORLEY REVEALS A SECRET.

Perhaps Mrs. Walter (to give her the
name by which she chose to be known)
was not the best companion or the best
adviser that Lady Shearman could have
chosen ; yet it came to pass that she served
in both capacities to the latter, who had
ftw friends of her own class and whose
emotions and opinions, being so near the
surface, could not be repressed without
discomfort. Bessie Walter was in many
respects unwomanly, and in none more so
than in the hard and logical sense of
justice which she possessed. She had
married from ambitious motives ; she had
failed in her duty to the man whom she

had married ; and she was, as she considered,
deservedly punished. There was
no important difference, that she could see,
between her case and that of Lady Shear-man,
who represented herself as unhappy
and disappointed, and whose husband, sofar
as could be judged from common report,
was not very unlike Lord Loddondale. Asa
matter of fact he was very unlike Lord
Loddondale, and Madge was very unlike
Bessie ; but possibly minor distinctions are
less evident to those who are at the point
of death than to those who have still the
prospect of spending many years in a complicated
world. Here was a woman who
did not love her husband and who complained
of his unreasonable and uncongenial
ways : Mrs. Walter could only shrug her
shoulders and say, " I should recommend
you to make the best of him. There's
nothing else to be done, you see."

But he is so senseless ! " Madge would
protest. " He is jealous of everybody and
everything that comes near me — even of

the dogs ! He actually objects to my
seeing much of my mother ; he would
certainly object very strongly if he knew
that I was talking to you now."

That wouldn't be surprising if he could
hear what you are saying," Mrs. Walter
would reply drily.

It never struck her as possible that
Madge could feel anything beyond toleration
for her husband ; she attempted no
defence of him, but contented herself with
pointing out in more or less plain language
that when one has made a bargain with
one's eyes open, one must perform one's
share of it, even though it should turn out
to be a bad one. And this was the view
of her matrimonial relations which Madge
herself came to adopt. The bargain which
she had made was not satisfactory ; only
she did not blame herself for having made
it, because she still clung to the conviction
that it had been made for her by the posse
of relatives to whose united forces opposition
would have been useless.

It is only fair to her to say that she
might have married Sir Christopher for
love and still found him a very trying
person to live with. It is true that he was
devoted to her — a little too devoted, she
sometimes thought — but his devotion was
not of that kind which implies the smallest
self-sacrifice. He amused himself after
his fashion, shooting or hunting every day
of the week ; yet he had no idea of allowing
her to amuse herself after hers. If she
had cared to participate in his pursuits to
the extent of joining him and his friends
when they were shooting the home coverts,
or even of following the hounds, he would
have been willing enough that she should
do so ; but it so happened that she had no
sporting proclivities. She did not like
standing about in damp, muddy places or
scrambling through hedges, nor had she
nerve enough to hunt. Consequently her
life was a very dull one ; for really it was
not worth while to risk a scene for the sake
of getting Basil Morley or some other

young men of the neighbourhood to drop
in to five-o'clock tea.

Sir Christopher usually turned up at
that hour, tired out with the exertions of
the day ; and if, as not unfrequently
happened, he found his wife in a discontented
humour, he put on an injured
expression and wanted to know what was
the matter. After dinner he generally fell
asleep and snored, which was neither polite
nor becoming, and at such times Madge
said to herself that he looked extremely
unlike a gentleman. No one, perhaps,
would look very aristocratic with his head
thrown back and his mouth wide open ;
but then there are some men of whom one
cannot conceive that they would permit
themselves to fall into such an attitude in
the presence of a lady, and it occurred to
Madge that Lord Walter Sinclair would
never have done it. Furthermore, she
sometimes reflected that Lord Walter was
heir-presumptive to a marquisate and large
estates ; and although, to be sure, there

was every probability that the present
holder of the title would soon be free to
marry again, yet Lord Loddondale was a
man who frequently rode in steeplechases
and otherwise endangered his neck.

Well, of course there was no good indwelling
upon such thoughts as these ; but
everybody knows what a great difference
there is between resigning one's self to a
loss and acquiescing in the fact that that
loss may turn to somebody else's gain.
Madge, when she thought of Lord "Walter,
pictured him to herself as disconsolate and
was really very sorry for him, having by
this time quite forgiven his unreasonable
behaviour in Scotland. Therefore she was
not at all pleased to hear that he was
enjoying himself greatly at Rome, and
that he did not shun the social gaieties
which the place afforded.

This information she obtained from Miss
Travers one morning when, contrary to
her custom, she had had herself driven to
the meet. Miss Travers had latterly given

lip hunting, having, as she declared, a
difficulty in mounting herself, by reason
of her increasing bulk ; but there were
few meets at which her dog-cart was not a
prominent feature, and she generally contrived
to see as much of the run as could
be seen upon wheels. On this particular
morning, however, she perceived at once
that, drive as she might, there would be
very little chance of her coming across the
hunt again ; so she determined that,
instead of needlessly fatiguing herself and
her horse, she would have a little chat with
Lady Shearman. Descending from her
lofty driving-seat, she marched up to
Madge's victoria, and, planting herself
beside it, with an elbow resting on the
hood, opened the conversation by saying —

I suppose you have heard from Norma
Shaft, haven't you ? "

Not very lately," answered Madge.
*' The truth is I haven't written for sometime."


Oh, well, I had a letter from her this

morning. They are in Rome, you know,
and having a fine time of it, she says.
Walter Sinclair is there too — which I'm
glad of."

Is he ? Why are you glad ? "

For reasons of my own. I have also
heard from his aunt, who is spending the
winter there, and who is an old friend of
mine. She tells me that Walter is in the
best of health and spirits, and that, though
he is by way of being too busy to indulge
in frivolous dissipation, he manages to see
as much of his friends as he wants. That's
the pull of being an artist or an author ;
when you think you are likely to be bored,
you can always excuse yourself upon the
plea of having work to do."

I should think Lord Walter would very
often excuse himself," remarked Madge.

That's as may be. My private opinion
is that his work doesn't prevent him from
being present at any entertainment to
which Norma Shaft has been invited."

Miss Travers, as she said this, looked

rather hard at the little lady in the victoria,
who was aware that she was being looked
at, yet could not help changing colour
slightly. She smiled and said " Oh ! " —
which was doubtless intended to be provoking,
and which had the desired effect.

Well," rejoined Miss T ravers sharply :
*' have you any objection to that ? "

Objection ? " asked Madge, raising her
eyebrows innocently, " oh dear, no ! Why
should I ? I think it would be too delightful.
Only, if that is why you are glad that

Lord Walter is in Rome, I am afraid

However, I may be mistaken, of course.
I dare say you know much more about him
than I do."

"I know you and he had a flirtation
last season," returned Miss Travers coolly ;
but last season was last season. You
have had time to get married since ; and
I imagine, saving your presence, that
Lord Walter has had time to forget all
about you."

Madge had always been rather afraid of

old Nell, who, as she very well knew, was
not to he snubbed or put to silence by
any of the customary methods. " I don't
know," she remarked plaintively, " why I
used always to be accused of flirting with
every man to whom I talked for five
minutes at a time. One comfort is that
accusations of that kind are not likely to
be brought against me any more."

Well, I hope not, I'm sure," said Miss
Travers, with a short laugh. " As for
Walter Sinclair, he wouldn't have suited
you for long, and you certainly wouldn't
have suited him. I really do believe that
Norma and he are suited to one another,
and that's why I'm so glad to hear that
there is a prospect of their finding out
each other's respective merits. She hasa
great many more than he has ; still,
taking him all round, he is above the
average run of men."

I suppose," observed Madge sweetly,
that nobody can be a better judge than
you of what the average run of men are

worth. You must have had so many
opportunities of studying them."

Miss Travers burst into a loud, jolly
laugh. " Now, now, Madge," said she,
*' don't you try to be spiteful ; it isn't in
your line, and you can't manage it. Be
thankful for that. Of course I'm as ugly
as sin and as old as the hills, and no man
has ever been bold enough to propose
marriage to me. You don't imagine that
you can hurt my feelings by reminding
me of those undeniable circumstances, do
you ? Another time, when you want to
hit me on the raw, you had better make
some allusion to corpulence. I'm always
telling people how fat I am getting ; but
I only do it in the hope of being contradicted.
Well, I must be off. Don't say
anything nasty about poor Walter when
you write to Norma. She won't believe
you if you do."

Miss Travers was not quite so indiscreet
as the foregoing conversation may cause
her to appear. For more reasons than

VOL. II. 28

one, she was very anxious to see her
beloved Norma married and provided for ;
she liked Lord Walter, and thought well
of him ; also she knew what irreparable
mischief may be worked by a silly and
jealous woman. Therefore she had deemed
it advisable to prepare Lady Shearman's
mind for what might shortly occur. " I
don't think," she mused as she drove
briskly homewards, " that there is much
fear of her ladyship's putting her oar in
now. She will be too angry to interfere."
Angry Madge undoubtedly was, and her
vanity was wounded ; but as vanity is not
quite the same thing as pride, it is likely
enough that, if Norma had been within
reach, some of those " nasty things " would
have been said to her about Lord Walter
which Miss Travers had affected to think
Madge capable of writing. Madge did not
write at all ; but during the next few days
she thought a great deal about her former
suitor, and was seriously displeased with
him, as she considered that she had every

right to be. Faithless and shameless were
among the least severe of the epithets
which she mentally applied to him, and
the only thing that consoled her was
that Norma must well know him to be
both.

Not long after this Sir Christopher and
Lady Shearman were present at a large
dinner-party, given chiefly in their honour,
at one of the neighbouring houses. Sir
Christopher abhorred provincial dinner-parties,
and Madge was not particularly
fond of such entertainments ; still, anything
was better than sitting at home, and
when one has a whole wardrobe full of
beautiful new frocks, it is a thousand pities
not to wear them before they become old
fashioned.

The dinner was heavy and tedious,
as was also the host, an old gentleman
with white whiskers and a high
colour of whom Madge had always stood
rather in awe, and whom she had to entertain
as best she could, since he did not

seem to feel it any part of his duty to
entertain her. This was uphill work ; for
she was not fortunate enough to hit upon
any subject that interested the old gentleman
(though she tried everything that she
could think of, from fox-hunting to gout),
and by the time that her hostess gave her
the signal of release she was much exhausted
and depressed. The conversation
which ensued between the ladies in the
drawing-room was not of a nature to raise
her drooping spirits, and some idea of the
depth of despondency to which she had
sunk may be gathered from the fact that
she was quite delighted when the door
opened and Basil Morley ambled across the
room towards her. Fatuous though Basil
was, he was more amusing than he intended
to be and a great deal more
amusing than anybody else whom Madge
could descry. Sir Christopher, it was true,
disapproved of him ; but Sir Christopher,
who had been drinking the old gentleman's
justly celebrated port, had brought

a radiant countenance out of the diningroom
with him, and was probably not ina
censorious mood.

Mr. Morley sank into a low chair, facing
Madge, and resting his elbows upon the
arms of it, formed a triangle with his long
white fingers and thumbs, across which he
smiled at her pensively. " Permit me,"
said he, " to congratulate you."

'' Thanks," answered Madge ; '' but I
don't know why I should be. congratulated.
If anything pleasant has happened to me,
or is going to happen to me, you would
make me sincerely grateful by telling me
of it."

I am afraid," said Mr. Morley, still
smiling, "that I can't promise you any
pleasant prospect, except that of a speedy
deliverance from this bucolic feast. I only
ventured to congratulate you upon the
cheerfulness with which you have borne
it up to now. You seem to accept life
generally in a cheerful spirit ; and that is
very wise of you."

The speech, as well as the manner of its
delivery, bordered upon impertinence ; but
Madge was not affronted. It was really
a matter of so very little consequence
whether Mr. Morley meant to be impertinent
or not.

"One tries to be cheerful," she remarked;
but certainly life in the country at this
season of the year is not gay for those who
take no interest in the destruction of wild
animals. If I could have my own way,
I should always winter abroad."

And can't j^ou have your own way,
Lady Shearman ? I should have thought
Sir Christopher could refuse you nothing."

Would you indeed ? Well, I haven't
put him to the test yet ; but I imagine
that if I were to ask him to take me
straight off to Rome, where the Shaftos
are now, and where I should like to be,
he would meet me with a kindly but firm
refusal."

Ah, yes ; I had heard that the Shaftos
were at Rome — and Lord Walter Sinclair

too," observed Mr. Morley, looking rather
curiously at his neighbour.

I suppose it was Miss Travers who
told you that," said Madge, with a laugh
which even to her own ears sounded a
little harsh. " She has built up a whole
romance upon the strength of the coincidence."


Mr. Morley threw back his head, closed
his eyes, and exaggerated his smile.

What on earth are you putting on that
face for ? " asked Madge, with pardonable
exasperation.

I do not think," he replied deliberately,
that Lord Walter Sinclair will ever
marry Miss Shaft. It might — though
that is not my personal opinion — be satisfactory
if he would — or could. But, as I
say, I do not think that he will."

This was more than flesh and blood
could stand. " I don't believe you know
anything at all about him or his intentions,"
said Madge. " If you mean that he is
too poor, that isn't an obstacle which

Norma would be likely to consider for a
moment."

Mr. Morley blandly signified that that
was not what he meant. He was aware,
he said, that Miss Shaft differed from
other women in being entirely above
mercenary considerations ; he also ventured
to think that she was in other respects so
superior to her supposed suitor that she
would scarcely accept his hand, even if he
were at liberty to make such an offer to
her. But

Do you mean to say that he is not at
liberty ? " Madge asked.

Mr. Morley replied by another question.
Can you keep a secret, Lady Shear-man
t

It is needless to record Madge's answer ;
for to that especial query probably only
one answer has ever been returned since
the world began.

Then," said Mr. Morley, " I will confide
to you what I have never confided
to anybody else ; for I am no mischief-maker.

I have pretty good reasons for
believing that Lord VYaUer is married
already."

Madge guessed at once what was the
mistake into which he had fallen, but she
listened to him patiently while he related
at great length how he had chanced to
encounter the so-called widow who was
living at the Shaft Arms ; how he had
been interested in her appearance ; how he
had made inquiries as to her history ; how
he had put this and that together, taking
much pains about it ("I am rather good
at circumstantial evidence," he remarked
parenthetically) ; and how he now considered
it to be as good as proved that
"Mr. Walter" was no other than Lord
Walter Sinclair.

Now, of course it was not for Madge to
reveal the truth to him. She had promised
not to do that ; and the comment which
she made upon his narrative was unexceptionable
both in spirit and in form.
"■ You have found a mare's nest, Mr.

Morley," said lie. '' I know Mrs. Walter
quite well, and I am convinced that she
is no more married to Lord Walter than
she is to you."

Nevertheless, as she drove away beside
the slumbering Sir Christopher, some queer
notions found their way into her head.
She hated the thought that Lord Walter
had transferred his allegiance from her to
Norma ; she was very angry with him
and would have liked to be revenged upon
him. Yet she was not bad enough to
contemplate seriously writing the letter to
her friend which a really bad woman might
have written ; her iniquity did not go
further than a half wish that her conscience
would allow her to do such a thing. But
perhaps that was far enough.

As for Basil Morley, his reflections while
he sat at his writing-table, burning the
midnight oil, ran something on this wise :
So she hasn't forgotten the man ; I
thought she hadn't. And she is indignant
and jealous, and she can't hide her emotions

which makes her eyes sparkle and is
decidedly becoming to her. This is most
interesting."

And before he went to bed he had added
a sonnet, entitled Furent Semina, to that
collection which as yet no publisher had
manifested any eagerness to issue.

CHAPTER VIII.

SIR Christopher HUNTING IS STOPPED.

Basil Morley's sonnet may have been a
talented composition of its kind and may
have displayed an intimate acquaintance
with the passions and weaknesses of
woman's nature ; but it certainly did not
apply in any way to the lady who had had
the honour of suggesting it. Nothing
could have been less like a furent semina
than Madge Shearman, nor was there the
smallest likelihood of her assuming that
tragic part which the poet felt that it
would be instructive to contemplate. On
the other hand, it must be admitted that
she was very cross. It is a hardship to
have nothing to do ; although those who

have too much to do may smile at it and
say that it is one which can only be
voluntarily incurred. It is a hardship to
be snapped at every time that you receive
a visit from one of your friends. And it
is a very great hardship — one of the
greatest in the world, perhaps, as well as
one of the commonest — to be perpetually
misunderstood. There cannot be much
comfort in being adored by a person who
always misunderstands you. For these
reasons the Shearman household was not a
happy one, and doubtless it would have
been more unhappy still if Sir Christopher
had not been out of doors from morning tonight.
That, Madge said to herself, was
something to be thankful for; but her
general frame of mind was far from thankful,
and there were many hours during
which she wondered wistfully what would
have happened if she had set her family at
defiance and refused point-blank to become
Sir Christopher's wife.

It was on a chilly, misty afternoon that

she was sitting before the fire indulging
in speculations of this unprofitable kind.
Half an hour earlier she had returned from
her daily drive and from paying certain
duty-calls. One must have reached the
age of sixty to enjoy driving, or rather
being driven ; and to enjoy paying afternoon
calls one must be near one's dotage.
Madge had enjoyed neither. The book
which she had been trying to read, and
which had slipped down from her grasp to
the hearth rug, had not entertained her.
She was extremely sorry for herself, and
at length began to cry a little in a feeble,
peevish way. " What a wretched life I
lead ! " she thought. *' One could bear a
great calamity ; everybody bears great
calamities well ; but to go on in this
dreary monotony, without the least hope
of things ever being better, would sour the
temper of a saint."

All of a sudden the door was burst
violently open, and her maid, a foolish,
flighty woman whom Mrs. Wilton had

engaged for her just before her marriage,
rushed into the room.

What is the matter now, Evans ? "
asked Madge with some asperity. " What
do you mean by bouncing in like that ? "

'' Oh, my lady ! " gasped Evans, pressing
one haud to her heart, " they Ve sent mein
to break it to you, and I don't know
how to do it ! There's been a lawful
accident ! "

Has anything happened to Sir Christopher
? " asked Madge, jumping up.

Evans wrung her hands and nodded
her head vehemently. " Oh dear, oh dear,
that I should 'ave to say it ! But don't
give way, my lady ; for while there's life
there's 'ope, and we must keep calm, indeed
we must ! The nan as come to tell us of
it says they'll be bringing him 'one immediate.
Rode into a quarry three or four
'hundred feet deep he did — to think of it !
And the 'horse killed on the spot, which
one can't wonder ! But we mustn't believe
the worst till it comes."

The first effect of a shock is quite as
often to sharpen the faculties as to deaden
them. " This cannot possibly be true,"
said Madge quietly. " There is no quarry
in the county three hundred feet deep, or
anything like it."

'' Oh, my lady," cried Evans, obviously
disappointed at her mistress's composure,
what signifies a 'hundred feet more or
less ? If you was to fall no more than the
depth of this room you might break your
neck."

There was no denying that. Madge
started and fell back abruptly into her
chair. Instantly the whole meaning and
consequence of the situation flashed before
her. A widow — mistress of great wealth —
delivered from the man who had worried
her life out — free to marry whom she
pleased ! Then, without a moment's delay,
this vision was swept away by an overwhelming
sense of shame. She could not
help her thoughts — who can ? — but she
was horrified at herself for having entertained

tliera, and frightened to find that,
even for those few seconds, she had wished
for her husband's death. And now she
became as agitated as Evans could have
desired.

We must do something," she exclaimed
wildly ; " we ought to be doing something !
Why do you stand there staring? Have
they sent for the doctor ? Are they getting
a bed ready ? "

She hurried into the hall, where she found
a little group of awestruck servants, to
whom she gave half a dozen contradictory
orders. She had completely lost her head
and did not know what she was doing
until, after an interval of the duration of
which she had no remembrance, she found
herself shaking hands with the doctor,
whose dog-cart had just driven up to the
door.

The doctor was a young man who had
a reputation for skill, but who had only
recently begun to practise in the neighbourhood.
He looked anxious and impatient.

VOL. II. 29

You must try to control yourself,
please," said he — and it was only on receiving
that injunction that Madge became
aware that she was sobbing hysterically —
if you are to be of any use — but of course
you will not be of any use. They will get
him here in ten minutes or so ; and you
had better be out of the way."

He drew her into the dining-room as he
spoke, and shut the door.

What has happened ? " asked Madge,
swallowing down her sobs. " Is he dead ?
Is he dying ? "

Neither, I hope ; but I cannot speak
positively yet. What happened was that
he never saw the quarry until it was too
late to pull up, and then he tried to clear
it. The marvellous thing is that he very
nearly succeeded. He might have plunged
down a sheer fifty feet ; as it was, his fall
was broken. So far as I could ascertain
the extent of his injuries by a hasty examination,
he has broken his arm and two
of his ribs ; and there has been a slight

concussion of the brain, and of course contusions.
More than that I can't say at
present. Do you wish to telegraph to
London for further advice ? If so, no time
should be lost."

The doctor's peremptory tone had the
effect which it was intended to have of
bringing Madge back to her senses. At
his dictation, she wrote a telegram to a
celebrated London surgeon and gave orders
that it should be despatched immediately.
Then she declared herself ready and able
to do anything that might be required of
her. But the doctor declined her offer of
assistance.

No," he answered not unkindly ; " we
shall do better without you. Sir Christopher
is cut about the face, and although
that is of small consequence, the sight
would probably turn you sick. I would
rather that you should remain quietly where
you are until I come down again. It is
a good deal to ask, I know ; but I suppose
you want to help us, and you can't help

US better than by sitting still and making
uss.

To the present day that doctor entertains
a high opinion of Lady Shearman's commonsense
and self-command. Perhaps he is
right in declaring that very few wives
would have consented so submissively to
obey orders ; no doubt he was right in
guarding himself against having to look
after a fainting woman while his attentions
were urgently required elsewhere. But he
probably did not realize what a relief it
was to Madge to be spared what to her
would have been the horrible duty of
washing those " cuts about the face," to
which he had alluded.

Nevertheless, the ensuing hour of solitude
was terrible enough to her. She heard
everything, as she sat there motionless,
while the daylight faded into darkness —
the slow grinding of wheels upon the gravel,
the heavy tramp and shuffling of footsteps
in the hall, the whispered orders, the
hurrying of servants up and down stairs.

Then came a prolonged Imsh which seemed
as though it would never end. She had
begun to feel that she could not endure
suspense for another five minutes, when the
doctor stepped quickly into the room.

Well, Lady Shearman," said he, " I
think I may venture to assert that everything
promises well. There is the possibility
of internal injuries. Sir Henrys
when he arrives, will probably tell you that
we must wait another twenty-four hours
before we can pronounce any decided
opinion as to that. Meanwhile, there are
no bad symptoms, and our patient has quite
recovered consciousness. You may see him
for a few minutes if you like."

Death, to which we are all condemned,
and which, as most of us believe, is a mere
break in the infinite continuity of our
being, ought not to scare us much ; and
indeed, when a person with whom we are
not brought into daily contact dies, we are
but slightly, and for a very short time,
affected by the incident. Yet, for some

reason which is not very clear, only the
worst of men and women really desire that
death should remove a member of their
own families. Moreover, Madge had not
yet got over the horror of that half-murderous
thought which had crept into
her mind. She jumped up and caught the
doctor by both hands.

Oh, thank you ! " she exclaimed gratefully.


The doctor laughed. ^' You had better
thank your husband or his horse," said he.
If either of them had faltered, all the
surgeons in England could have done no
good. It makes one very sorry to think
that the poor brute broke his own back,
though he saved his master's neck."

This — oddly enough, as it seemed to
Madge — was the first comment upon the
accident which suggested itself to Sir
Christopher. He was a man of far stronger
affections and deeper feelings than his
wife's, and the tears came into his eyes
when he was told that poor Nero had had

to be shot. He was evidently more distressed
about this than about his own
injuries or the shock which Lady Shearman
had sustained, though he was glad to see
her when she stole timidly to his bedside,
and smiled at her, and squeezed the small
trembling hand which she extended to
him. For the rest, he was very quiet and
patient, notwithstanding the pain that he
was suffering.

'Tis a bad sign," Evans declared,
shaking her head. '' When you see a 'tempered
man — which no one can deny
that his temper was 'ot — laying on his
back as meek as a lamb, you may be sure
that the lend is at 'and."

Such, however, was not the view taken
by the great London surgeon, who arrived
at ten o'clock and stayed the night, and
who, on the following day, was able to
confirm fully the favourable prediction of
his country colleague. Sir Christopher
would live ; but he was not likely to leave ^
his bed for a good many weeks to come, .

and there would certainly be no more
hunting for him that year.

It is in times of adversity, we are often
assured, that a man's true nature displays
itself, and we can never tell what any one
is worth until we have seen what sort of a
face he can put upon danger or pain or
sickness. Perhaps so ; hut courage and endurance,
though fine qualities, are scarcely
required in everyday life, and both maybe
possessed by one who is nevertheless a
very disagreeable person to live with. Sir
Christopher, to give him the credit which
is his due, certainly shone as an invalid.
During several weeks of pretty constant
suffering and frequent sleeplessness he
never uttered a word of complaint, and the
gratitude which he expressed to his wife in
return for such small attentions as reading
the newspapers to him or rearranging his
pillows was not a little pathetic. Madge
felt it to be so, and became almost affectionate
in her sympathy and remorse.

One may say, without much fear of contradiction,

that no man can ever fall in
love with a wife whom he has not married
for love ; but the nature of women is in
some ways so strange and so unlike our
own that one hesitates to declare the impossibility
of the converse event. At any
rate, Madge had never liked Sir Christopher
so much as she did now, and if he had only
remained a cripple for the rest of his days
he would perhaps have had no reason to
complain that his wife neglected him.

Unfortunately, as he grew stronger he
grew fretful — which is no uncommon
thing with convalescents — and so the old
troubles began all over again. Mrs. Wilton
had taken up her quarters at Brampton
during her son-in-law's illness, and since
she had discreetly abstained from entering
his room, he had made no protest against a
visit which, under the circumstances, could
scarcely have been forbidden. However,
he did not like Mrs. Wilton, and the very
first day that he came downstairs he had a
little passage of arms with her. She had

been ordering the dinner, it appeared ; and,
on finding this out, he told her in so many-words
that his servants had no instructions
to take orders from anybody except Lady-sherman
and himself.

^' Once allow that sort of thing to begin
and there's an end of all discipline," he
grumbled. " I suppose I shall have to
give them the sack, from the housekeeper
downwards."

Pray do not put yourself to that inconvenience,"
answered Mrs. Wilton, who
was not prepared to be quite as submissive
to an actual as she might have been to a
prospective son-in-law. " It will answer all
the purpose if you give me the sack ; and
now that I can be of no further use here, I
shall be very glad to return home."

After that Sir Christopher made a sort
of apology ; but it was not accepted, and
Mrs. Wilton took her departure in justifiable
displeasure.

Then there was a great disturbance
because Basil Morley called one afternoon.

and had an interview of half an hour's
duration with Lady Shearman.

Do you wish to condemn me to solitary
imprisonment for life ? " exclaimed Madge
in despair. "If you do, you had better
say so at once, and I will tell the servants
that nobody is ever to be admitted again."

Living with me appears to be your
notion of solitary imprisonment," observed
Sir Christopher. "I am not condemning
you to anything of the sort ; only, as I told
you once before, I don't wish you to make
a friend of that fellow Morley. Besides, I
should think that, while I am in this state,
you might very well say ' Not at home '
when people come bothering."

He was not always in so fractious a
mood. Every now and again he relapsed
into cheerfulness and kindness, even
going so far as to admit that it must be
very slow work for his wife to be tied all
day long and every day to a helpless man.

I'll tell you what it is, Madge," he said
suddenly one evening ; " when I'm a bit

stronger we'll be off somewhere south till
the warm weather begins. If your hunting
is stopped, there's no more beastly country
in the world than England in spring.
What do you think of taking a run as far
as Rome and looking up the Shaftos ? "

Madge's heart gave a great bound and
then stood still. If any one had asked her
what she would like best at that moment,
and if she had been compelled to return a
truthful answer, she would have had to
say that she would like to be taken to
Rome. Latterly she had received many
letters from Norma, who had heard of Sir
Christopher's accident and was anxious for
news of his progress — letters in which a
good deal was said about the sights and
attractions and society of Rome, but which
contained not one single allusion to Lord
Walter Sinclair. This was undoubtedly a
strange and suspicious omission. Madge
had tried not to think too much about it,
and had, with some difficulty, abstained
from introducing Lord Walter's name into

her replies ; but she had been very eager —
very pardonably eager, as it seemed to her
to discover how much ground there was
for Miss Travers's conjectures ; and now,
in this surprising and most unexpected
fashion, an opportunity was offered to her
of verifying or refuting them by the
evidence of her own senses. To her credit
it must be recorded that she had a moment
of compunction. Sir Christopher evidently
did not know that Lord Walter was in
Rome ; and she determined to tell him of
it, bringing out her information somewhat
hurriedly and awkwardly, lest she should
yield to the temptation to hold her tongue.

I should like it of all things," she
answered. " It would be very nice to seethe
Shaftos, and — and there's another friend
of ours there — Lord Walter Sinclair. He
has taken a studio for the winter, I
believe."

It may be that when one is jealous of
everybody one ceases to be jealous of anyone
person in particular ; and Sir Christopher,

who had once regarded Lord
Walter as a rival, seemed to have forgotten
that circumstance. '' Oh, lies there, is
he ? " was his only comment upon Madge's
communication. " I don't much care about
Sinclair. Conceited sort of fellow, I always
think. However, we needn't see more of
him than we choose, I suppose."

With that he dropped the subject ; but
he recurred to it in the course of a day or
two, and it is needless to add that his plan
met with no opposition. After all, Madge
thought, there was no reason in the world
why she should not meet Lord Walter,
nor any reason why her husband should
object to her doing so. She had given
him the chance of making an unreasonable
objection : more than that she was surely
not bound to do.

CHAPTER IX.

CHARITY.

Walter Sinclair, like most people who
have the artistic temperament, was somewhat
hyper-sensitive ; but even if he had
not been so, he must have noticed that
Miss Shaft was not quite so pleased to
meet him again as he was to meet her. He
was sorry for that and a little disposed to
be affronted, not seeing what he had done
to forfeit her friendship ; but as he did not
wish to make himself ridiculous by showing
temper, he called at the Hotel Bristol
a few days after the Frascati excursion,
and, having sent up his card, was admitted
into the sunny little sitting-room which
Mr. Shaft had secured for the winter
months. Unfortunately, Mr. Grey had

selected the same day and hour for paying
his respects to a lady whom he much
admired ; and Lord Walter's entrance
interrupted that versatile young gentleman
in the midst of a comic song, the accompaniment
of which Norma was playing for
him, and which seemed to be affording her
considerable amusement.

AVell, it really was rather a funny song,
and Grey, who was easily persuaded to
sing the concluding verses, had great skill
in the way of facial contortion ; and if
Norma laughed heartily at his performance,
that was no more than many persons of
the highest intellect and culture had done
before her. But Lord Walter could not
manage to laugh. The association of Miss
Shaft with vulgar buffoonery produced the
effect of a horrible discord upon him, and
as he could think of no remark that would
be at once appropriate and civil, he sat
still and held his tongue.

Miss Shaft," said Grey, strolling away
from the piano and planting himself in

front of Lord Walter, wliorn he contemplated
for a moment with interest, " 1 am
sorry to tell you that Sinclair has a poor
opinion of you. It's a bad job ; but there's
no mistake about it — he is disappointed in
you. You see, he thought you had a soul
above music-hall ditties."

"I am quite sure that he thought nothing
of the kind," returned Norma, laughing.
He knows very well that, when I am in
London, I am a staunch supporter of a
temperance music-hall, where we are as
vulgar as our patrons will allow us to be."

Miss Shaft suits herself to her company,"
said Lord Walter ; " one doesn't
find out in a day what her own tastes
are.

That," observed Mr. Grey placidly, " is
pretty straight. I suppose I may as well
go away now. Then you'll join that
riding-party tomorrow, will you, Miss
Shaft ? And I shall see you after church
on Sunday, and I'll remember to get those
tickets that you wanted."

VOL. II. 30

There was a good deal more murmuring
and making of appointments while he took
his leave, and it struck Lord Walter that
he need not have been so long about it.
Certainly there was no occasion for him to
hold Norma's hand the whole time,

'^ He is a nice little man ; don't you think
so ? " said she, as soon as he had departed.

Yes," agreed Lord Walter, smiling ;
*' yes — he is a nice little man."

Oh, but I didn't mean that ; I meant
that he is really nice. Why don't you like
him ? "

I do like him ; I like him very much
in his way. Only, somehow, I shouldn't
have fancied that you would."

I like all sorts of people. Everybody
can't be a sculptor, you know."

If that means that you have any predilection
for sculptors as a class, I will try
to forgive you for playing Grey's accompaniments,"
said Lord Walter, who felt that
he had been upon the verge of behaving
foolishly and was anxious to change the

subject. " There is one humble sculptor
who has had this studio carefully swept
every morning for some time past in the
hope of your patronising it by a visit."

We quite intend to drop in upon you
as soon as we have a spare half-hour,"
answered Norma, " but we seem to have
been so full of engagements lately ; and
then there is all the sight-seeing to be
done. When do you do your sight-seeing?
I suppose you rather hate to find yourself
in a crowd of tourists ; still you can't altogether
neglect the Vatican and the picture-galleries."


This sounded something like an invitation
; and Mr. Shaft, coming in at that
moment, was so good as to second it in
plainer terms. " Was Norma trying to
secure your services as a guide to the
picture-galleries, Sinclair ? " he asked, after
shaking hands with his visitor. " If you
would take pity upon us and tell us what
we ought to admire, and why we ought to
admire it, we should feel deeply indebted

to you. Norma knows more about art
than I do ; but that isn't saying much.
We are both badly in want of a competent
instructor."

Walter was very willing to make himself
useful in that capacity, and it was at once
arranged that he should accompany his
friends to the Palazzo Borghese on the
following day. As a matter of fact, Mr.
Shaft was by no means as ignorant of art
as he affected to be ; while Norma, if she
was not particularly well instructed in the
matter of technicalities, had an eye for
form and colour which required very little
educating. Also she seemed to enjoy the
disquisitions for which her mentor duly
apologized.

'why are you so afraid of being
thought pedantic or dictatorial ? '" she asked,
smiling. " You are talking about what
you thoroughly understand, and you have
every right to lay down the law. Besides,
if you didn't, how should I discover what
the law is ? "

She became quite friendly and like lier
former self while he was expatiating to her
upon the painter's and the sculptor's craft.
It was very true that she suited herself to
her company, and that not from any insincerity,
but simply because the power of
sympathy was so strong in her. Only
Walter always noticed (for this morning
spent at the Borghese Gallery was only the
first of a series during which most of the
collections in Rome were visited) that as
soon as he quitted that topic a certain
undefinable constraint came over her
manner. She was interested in him as
an artist, it appeared, but not as an
individual ; nor did she care to hear about
his plans and prospects, except in so far as
they related to the avocation which he had
taken up. The promised visit to his studio
Alas never paid ; and as for requesting her
to pose as his model, he had not the courage
to hint at such a thing. He was, in truth,
a little afraid of her, which surprised and
amused him when he realized it, because it

was not much in his way to be afraid of
anybody. However, notwithstanding these
drawbacks, he found her companionship
very pleasant ; and Mr. Shaft, who strayed
about in his restless fashion from picture to
picture, frequently meeting with acquaintances
in the course of his wanderings,
was no restraint upon freedom of intercourse.


One morning, as these three persons
were leaving the Palazzo Sierra, a peasant
woman with two ragged children, who bad
been waiting outside and had apparently
been in conversation with Mr. Shaft's
Italian servant, rushed forward and intercepted
Norma, whose hand she kissed, and
whom she began to address with voluble
and lachrymose eloquence.

Now, isn't that like Norma ! " exclaimed
Mr. Shaft to Lord Walter, who
was a few paces in the background.
Coelum, non animus, you know. Wherever
she goes, she is bound to have poor
people running after ber, and she has

already acquired a long list of out-at-elbows
proteges here."

Who is the woman ? " Lord Walter
asked.

don't know ! Where she picks these
people up is a mystery to me ; but I suppose
they are like vultures and scent her
from afar."

I dare say you are not much better,"
observed Lord Walter, laughing ; for Mr.
Shaft had begun to fumble surreptitiously
in his pocket.

Better ? My dear fellow, I'm a thousand
times worse. When I see folks with
pinched faces and bare feet, I bestow a
trifle upon them and retire under a hailstorm
of benedictions. That isn't Norma's
wa'' at all. She finds out all about them
and penetrates into the dens where they
live, and gives herself no end of trouble to
procure work for them which they won't
always do. Norma is the impersonation of
true charity ; as for me, I cannot be said to
personify anything beyond a lazy sort of
good-nature."

This was so absolutely true that there
was no disputing it. Walter made no
rejoinder, but stood gazing at the little
group in the sunshine — the black-haired
Roman peasant, with her attendant imps ;
the tall, beautiful lady whose blue eyes
expressed nothing but pity and kindliness.
Well, if the lady had not been Norma, he
might perhaps have laughed at her for
believing the pack of lies with which she
was in all probability being assailed ; but as
it was, he did not think the worse of her
for being credulous — if indeed she was
credulous. He remembered that " Charity
suffered long and is kind ; charity loveth
all things, believeth all things;" and it
came into his mind that if ever Miss Shaft
could be prevailed upon to sit to him, it
should be in the character of Charity that
her image should be presented to the
world.

Later on the same day Lord Walter
chanced to be in the studio of a brother-sculptor,
a young Frenchman who had

acliievecl renown by some daring flights
of fancy ; and to him he mentioned the
nature of the work he had in contemplation.


Charity ? " said the Frenchman, with a
shrug of his shoulders. " That is not very
original, is it ? Besides, you can't manage
it without a group. A single figure would
require an inscription on the pedestal, and
it is always humiliating to have to explain
one's self."

Much depends upon the single figure,"
observed Lord Walter.

And a little, perhaps, upon the sculptor.
Have you found her then — your Charity ?
And are you quite sure that she does not
represent Love ? "

Lord Walter was quite sure of that, and
said so with unnecessary emphasis. *' I
think I have found her," he added ; " I
don't know that I have secured her."

Indeed, he was far from confident that
he wxmld be able to secure her. There
were a good many difficulties in the way ;

and, reflecting upon these during the two
following days, he decided at length that,
as a preliminary measure, he would call
upon his aunt Lady Spencer Sinclair, to
whom he owed a visit.

He was a favourite with Lady Spencer,
otherwise perhaps he would not have been
admitted ; for her carriage was at the door,
and he found her arrayed for her afternoon
drive in magnificent furs and a new bonnet
which last she was examining anxiously
in front of a Venetian mirror.

How do you do, Walter ? " said she,
without turning round. " Does this bonnet
really make me look such a guy, or is it
the fault of the glass ? "

It is the fault of the glass," replied
Lord Walter unhesitatingly; "there must
be something radically wrong with any
glass that could make you look like a guy.
You are the handsomest woman in Rome,
my dear aunt, and I believe you know it."

Lady Spencer had been a famous beauty
somewhere about the time of her nephew's

birth. She was now indited to be stout ;
her chin had become a double one, and her
abundant hair had turned as white as
snow, but she was certainly a very handsome
old lady. She was not ill-pleased
by the extravagant piece of flattery
addressed to her, although she was sharp
enough to guess that, after that, she might
expect to be asked a favour of some kind.

Great as my charms are," she remarked,
*' they may be neutralized by an ugly
bonnet. You need not say that it is a
pretty bonnet ; because I neither designed
it nor bought it. It was purchased by my
maid, who, I should think, must have had
an eye to reversionary interests. If it will
not jar too much upon your feelings to sit
beside it you might come for a drive with
me, and afterwards I would take you to
pay some visits."

I should like nothing better," replied
Lord Walter : at which Lady Spencer
burst out laughing.

He would like nothing better than to

pay a round of calls ! What a very strange
young man ! Is there, by any chance,
some particular person whom you would
like to call upon ? "

'' Well, if you where driving in that
direction, I should rather like to call upon
the Shaftos. Between ourselves, I have
set my heart upon getting a sitting from
Miss Shaft, and I wanted to consult you
about it. Is it the sort of request that one
could make without impertinence ? "

Then he explained at some length the
conception which he had formed, pointing
out how important, and indeed almost
essential, it was that an artist who desired
to give a particular expression of countenance
to the figure upon which he was at
work should be able to copy that expression
direct from his model instead of
doing his best to reproduce it by an effort
of memory. As it happened. Miss Shaft,
and nobody else in Rome — perhaps nobody
else in the world — could provide him with
what he required.

To all this Lady Spencer listened with
an amused look. " Well," she said, " you
can but make your request. You have my
best wishes."

Thanks ; but you are always so kind
that I was rather in hopes you might go
a little further than wishing me success.
You see, if she were to begin by refusing
and that isn't at all unlikely — I couldn't
very well say any more, could I ? Whereas,
if you were there to back me up "

'' Do you seriously think that my persuasion
would be more effectual than
yours ? "

I certainly do. Besides, there are some
trifling obstacles which you might so easily
smooth over. For instance. Miss Shaffco
couldn't, of course, come to my studio
alone, and I dare say her father wouldn't
much care about sitting there, twirling his
thumbs for an hour at a time."

"■ Oho ! now we have come to the point.
Upon my word, Walter, you are pretty
cool ! Will it amuse me, pray, to twirl

mj thumbs in your studio ? And do you
really suppose that I don't see through
this ingenious artifice of yours ? Charity
indeed ! If a representation of Charity is
what you want, it would be a good deal
more to the purpose to make a study of
your aunt. Then perhaps I might ask
Miss Shaft to come with me and keep
me company — which I presume would do
equally well."

I am not employing artifice at all,"
Lord Walter declared ; " you never were
more mistaken in your life. I have a very
great admiration for Miss Shaft ; but I
am not in the least smitten with her. I
have told you the simple truth— if only
you were not too clever to believe it."

To be sure," continued Lady Spencer
musingly, without taking any notice of
this interpolation, " she is a nice girl and
she is well-bred, and as she has neither
brothers nor sisters, I presume she v/ill be
comfortably off one of these days. You
might do worse. Well, come along then ;

I am good-natured if I am anything. All
I stipulate for is that your studio shall
be properly warmed. I won't submit to
draughts, even in the cause of charity."

Ten minutes later, Lady Spencer and her
nephew were shown into the presence of
Miss Shaft, whom they had the good
fortune to find at home and alone. Lord
Walter had not thought it worth while to
persist in contradicting his aunt, who was
not very fond of being contradicted. After
all, her misinterpretation of his motives
was of no great consequence. The principal
thing was that she should have consented
to act as his ally ; and indeed he
had no reason to complain of her in that
capacity.

Norma, on being informed of the greatness
which it was proposed to thrust upon
her, did not at first seem to be either
flattered by the suggestion or very willing
to agree to it ; but Lady Spencer was an
adroit old woman.

She said, " My dear, it will be a horrid

bore for "as both ; there's no use in pretending
that it won't. Walter knows that
so well that he hadn't the courage to come
and make his request by himself; but if
you could bring yourself to give up these
few hours to him, you might be laying the
foundation of his fortune. Artists aren't
like other people. They have their inspirations
and their fancies, and when they are
thwarted, I suppose they pretty generally
fail."

Now, to refuse a service to a fellow-creature
was what Norma always found a
great deal more difficult than to grant it.
She was not very anxious to sit to Lord
Walter, nor did she much relish the idea of
being publicly exhibited in the character
with which — as it seemed to her — he had
rather absurdly chosen to identify her ;
but if she could be of any real use to him
by standing or sitting in an uncomfortable
attitude for an hour or so at a stretch, that
was a small sacrifice of convenience on her
part to which he was heartily welcome ;

and she answered to that effect. " Only,"
she added, " I must hear what my father
has to say about it before I can make any
promise."

"Oh, I'll undertake your father," said
Lady Spencer, laughing. " Now, Walter,
we won't detain you any longer. I'm
going to take Miss Shaft for a drive, if
she will come with me."

So Lord Walter, after expressing his
gratitude in a few words, retired, perceiving
that Norma might possibly have some
scruples which would be more easily
mentioned and overruled when he was out
of the way.

VOL II. 31

CHAPTER X.

LORD WALTER IS ENLIGHTENED.

This is really very good of you," said
Lady Spencer, as soon as her nephew had
taken his leave, " and it is just like our impudence
to expect you to take so much
trouble for us. All I can plead by way
of excuse is that when Walter came and
entreated me to support him I hadn't the
heart to refuse. I do want him to get on
in the profession that he has chosen, poor
fellow, and I think he may make something
of this study if he is allowed to have his
own way about it."

Oh, the trouble is nothing," answered
Norma ; " I don't mind that at all."

'' Perhaps you are thinking about the
proprieties, then ? Well, I admit that that

is a point which has to be considered.
But, you see, you will be under my
wing* and I may boast without vanity
that my character stands high. If I say
it's all righfc, you may be pretty sure that
other people will say so too. You won't
be accused of designs upon this struggling
sculptor, and if he is suspected of admiring
you, I suppose that won't matter much."

Norma laughed. " Not very much ; but
I shouldn't think that it was at all likely
to be said. Most of our friends know that
Lord Walter and I have been acquainted
from childhood."

Then what is it that you are not quite
pleased about? Because I can see that
there is something."

Upon reflection, Norma found herself
unable to answer this question, though
she did not deny the fact. " If I can be of
any service to him, I shall be very glad,"
she said at length, in a tone which sounded
as though she desired to close the discussion.

So the ladies went out for their drive

together, and, drawing up at last upon the
sunny Indian, were soon surrounded by
a crowd of idlers. The elder of the two,
while dispensing social amenities with her
usual grace and good humour, kept a watchful
eye and ear upon the younger, and was
contented with the result of her observation.

"She will do very well indeed," Lady
Spencer thought to herself. " She has a
nice, natural manner, and she is no fool.
The only question is whether "Walter will
succeed with her. I don't feel as sure
about that as I do that he will make the
attempt."

Meanwhile, Lord Walter's doubt was
whether he would be able to succeed with
Miss Shaft in an artistic sense, and as to
that he did not feel sure at all. It was not a
very easy task that he had undertaken, nor,
when he began trying to work it out, could
he help admitting the justice of his French
friend's criticism. Originality in the choice
of a design is of small importance as compared
with the execution of the design when

chosen ; but originality covers a multitude
of sins, and the lack of it is fatal to mediocrity.
However, he was determined to
exert to the utmost those powers which he
knew that he possessed ; and when, on the
day appointed for the first sitting, Lady
Spencer and Miss Shaft were ushered into
his studio, he had a rough sketch ready to
submit to them with which he hoped that
they would not be dissatisfied.

They were, at all events, very well satisfied
with the preparations which had been
made for their reception. The studio, as
has been said, belonged to a friend of Lord
Walter's who was well-to-do, and who
knew how to make himself comfortable.
It boasted of an open fireplace, in which a
bright wood fire was blazing cheerfully ;
a considerable portion of the tiled floor was
concealed by Persian rugs ; close to the fire
was a low sofa, and beside it a table, upon
which lay all the latest English newspapers
and magazines ; wherever standing-room
could be found for them were great bowls

of roses and violets ; finally, upon the tai's
where Miss Shaft was presumably expected
to take up her position, an easy-chair and
a footstool had been placed.

Dear me ! " exclaimed Lady Spencer,
surveying the scene through her double
eye-glasses, " we do things in style, it
seems. People who can afford to smother
themselves in roses like this must be driving
a roaring trade. Is that dancing figure
your own doing, Walter? It is perfectly
charming ! Why didn't you ask me to
come here before ? I would have given
you an order."

She went round, examining the different
works upon which Lord Walter had been
engaged since his arrival in Rome, while
he exhibited his sketch to Norma. It was
that of a standing figure in flowing Greek
drapery, the arms bare to the shoulders,
the hands slightly advanced from the body,
with the palms turned outwards. The
pose was easy and graceful, and the face
was a very faithful likeness of Norma

Shaft. She looked at it in silence for a
minute or two and then handed it back to
him.

I think it will be a beautiful figure,"
she said ; " but isn't it perhaps a little
too cheerful ? Ought Charity to look so
happy ? "

You look cheerful and happy," he
answered.

But this is not to be a statue of me ;
it is to be a statue of Charity," objected
Norma.

Well, that is why I want it to have
your expression. If I were poor and in
misery, I would rather be smiled upon
than wept over."

Of course," agreed Lady Spencer, seating
herself on the sofa by the fireside.
*' Tears are very seldom becoming to anybody,
and I can't imagine anything more
frightful than a blubbering statue. And
now let us get to work."

Not much work however was done either
on the first day, or the second, or the third,

and Norma soon perceived that this was
going to be a long business. It was only for
the study of the head, Lord Walter explained
to her, that her presence was requisite. A
good deal of progress therefore might be
made between whiles, and more was being
made during the sittings than was actually
apparent. But how many of these he
would have to ask her for he was quite
unable to say as yet. He hoped she did not
find it very tiring and disagreeable.

As a matter of fact, she found it neither
the one nor the other. Yery little constraint
as to attitude was imposed upon her ;
it interested her to watch the sculptor at
work, and Lady Spencer's conversation
was highly entertaining. Lady Spencer,
for her part, declared that she did not care
how often she had to discharge her humble,
necessary functions.

One must read the newspaper somewhere,"
she observed, " and one might as
well read it here as anywhere else."

Not that she did read it (for she was

a loquacious old lady, and could not bring
herself to sit silent while there was anybody
within reach to be talked to) ; but
she held it in her hand and occasionally
favoured her audience with paragraphs of
a personal nature and comments thereupon.
The conversation was almost invariably in
the form of a dialogue. Lord Walter took
scarcely any part in it, but contented himself
with listening and with watching the
varying expression of his sitter. It varied
a great deal and very often ; and that, ashe
had remarked to Miss Travers long
before, made it extremely difficult to seize ;
but he had good hope that, by dint of
patience, he would be able at last to get
what he wanted. It had, at all events,
become very clear to his mind's eye. In
the mean time he greatly enjoyed hearing
her talk, and the admiration which he had
always felt for her character grew more
and more. As might have been expected,
the two ladies spoke rather of people than
of things ; and it was curious to notice

that one of them had nothing but what
was good to say of anybody. Lady
Spencer was not an ill-natured woman ;
but, like the rest of the world, she often
made remarks about her friends which she
would not have cared that they should
hear. This Norma never did, and what
struck Lord Walter was not so much that
she abstained from evil-speaking (which
a good many people contrive to do after
a very eloquent fashion) as that she had
no unkind thoughts. He could not refrain
from remarking upon this, one day, to his
aunt, though he knew that he would be
laughed at.

Do you think Miss Shaft deserves any
credit for being good ? " he asked. " It
seems to me that she simply can't help it,
just as you and I can't help periodical
lapses into sin."

Speak for yourself," returned Lady
Spencer. " What do you know about my
periodical lapses ? As for your divinity,
she is a good girl; but, not being in love

with her, I take her to be a human being.
Probably you will some day see your way
to agreeing with me there."

He smiled and did not protest against
his aunt's fixed idea. It was natural
enough that a looker-on should mistake his
admiration for love.

The looker-on, of course, had seen most
of the game, and the enlightenment of one
of the players was a mere question of time.
The truth flashed across Walter Sinclair
quite suddenly one morning, when a message
reached hit from Miss Shaft to the
effect that she would be unable to keep
her usual engagement, as she was going
out riding with her father. His disappointment
was so keen and so out of all
proportion to its cause that a brief process
of self-examination was inevitable ; and
indeed a very brief one sufficed. Women,
it is said, are frequently in love without
knowing it ; but such experiences are not
very common with men. Nevertheless,
Walter was convinced that he had sAwdys

loved Norma, and that the passing passion
which he had felt for Madge Wilton had
been utterly unreal. This is what burnt-out
passions must always appear to have
been ; but perhaps in his case there was
rather more excuse than is usual for the
adoption of that view. He remembered
a great many circumstances which lent
support to it. He remembered how annoyed
he had been with Nell Travers for
declaring that Norma " would never look "
at him, and how extremely distasteful it
had always been to him to see Miss Shaft
approached by any man who bore the
semblance of a possible admirer. He
remembered also how he had shuddered at
the idea that his brother was becoming;
fascinated by one whose nature and habits
raised her so far above the level of a
rowdy sportsman. In short, he persuaded
himself with such ease that Norma was the
first and only — as she certainly would bethe
last — love of his life, that he failed to
foresee the difficulty that might eventually

arise in persuading her of that truth. He
was not a very practical man, although
that was what he rather prided himself
upon being. In some ways he was clear-sighted,
seldom deceiving himself as to
plain matters of fact ; but the ideal was
far more attractive to him than the real,
and he was a good deal given to dreaming.

He fell to dreaming now, having been
deprived of his morning's occupation, and
presently carried his castles in the air out
to the Borghese gardens, where he spent
an hour happily enough, wandering among
the by-paths and grassy glades, and rejoicing
in the warm sunshine ; for the
early Roman spring, which is so often
interrupted by returns of winter, had
already set in.

As he was walking up the Via Babuino,
on his way homewards, he chanced upon
the woman who had accosted Norma outside
the Sierra Palace. She recognized
him, showing her white teeth and murmuring,
'' Burn giorno, Ignoring ; " so he

stopped her, for lie thought it would be
pleasant to hear Normals praises sung.

Of this gratification he was not defrauded.
At the first mention of Miss
Shaft's name her protegee broke forth into
a eulogy which in respect of energy and
exuberance of diction left nothing; to be
desired. Perhaps southern people are
more grateful than we are ; certainly they
appear to be so. Lord Walter could not
discover that Norma had done anything
for this poor woman beyond giving her
certain articles of clothing, finding occasional
jobs for her, and buying bunches of
violets from her hamlin; but if these were
not benefits deserving of such extravagant
laudation, it was at least pleasant to hear
that the sweet face and the kind heart of
the donor were appreciated.

Somewhat less of charm attached to a
prolonged narration of the good woman's
personal history and misfortunes — how her
husband had emigrated to South America
two years before and had never been heard

of since ; how for a time she had supported
herself by singing in the streets, but had
been deprived of that means of earning a
precarious livelihood bj a cold which had
settled on her chest and taken away her
voice ; how she had been ill for six weeks,
and had been unable to go into the hospital,
because there was nobody with whom
she could leave the children, and so forth.

By way of checking this tale of woe
Lord Walter pointed to a bright-eyed,
olive-complexioned lad of fourteen or
fifteen, who was leaning, with folded arms,
against the wall, and listening smilingly
to the dialogue. " Is that your son ? " he
asked.

The woman sighed and shrugged her
shoulders. " Che vole ? He ought to be
working, but work is not so easy to come
by, and there is no money to apprentice
him to a trade. He does what he can,
and he is willing to work, are you not,
Epping ? "

Possibly," said Walter, " I might be

able to give him a helping hand. I rather
want a boy to sweep out my studio — for
I am a sculptor, I should tell you. Yes,
to sweep out the studio and — and run
messages and — in short, to make himself
generally useful. You might send him
up tomorrow — and perhaps it would not
be a bad plan to give him a good washing
first — and of course I would have him
decently clothed and fed. Then about
wages : shall we say a scudo a week ? "

The result of this conversation was that
when Norma next visited Lord Walter's
studio, the door was opened for her by a
grinning youth with a very clean face and
a very new suit of clothes.

Beppo ! " she exclaimed in amazement ;
what in the world are you doing here ? "
And when she had heard Beppo's explanation
of his improved circumstances, she
was as much pleased as she was surprised.
She knew that Lord Walter was not ungenerous
in the matter of almsgiving ; but
she had never expected him to take much

personal trouble in order to assist his poor
fellow-creatures, because she was aware
that nine men out of ten will not do this.
They have other matters to attend to ;
they have bought a yoke of oxen and
therefore they cannot come. It is woman's
mission to look after the details of benevolence.
And so, on entering the studio, she
shook hands with its tenant a good deal
more warmly than usual.

^' I have just seen Beppo," she said.
'• How very kind of you to provide for him
like this ! "

I thought perhaps it would please you
to know that his mother had one mouth
less to feed," answered Walter rather injudiciously.


Norma's face fell a little. " Oh, I hope you
had some better reason than that," she said.

This speech seemed to tickle Lady
Spencer, who laughed for some time before
she remarked, " I am not sorry for you,
Walter ; you shouldn't blurt out the truth
so clumsily."

VOL. II. 32

But why am I clumsy ? And why
shouldn't I tell the truth ? " asked Walter.
"' I dare say there are a thousand little
boys in Eome who would be glad to have
Beppo's place ; but as I can't find employment
for a thousand boys, I naturally chose
one in whom I believe Miss Shaft to be
interested. It seems to me that that was
as good a reason as another."

Well, so it was," agreed Norma, repenting
of her ungraciousness. " Anyhow,
it was a very kind thing to do, and I only
hope Beppo won't bring discredit upon me."

Later in the day Lord Walter chanced to
meet his aunt at the Embassy. " Well,"
said she, as he was escorting her downstairs
to her carriage, " what conclusion is
one to draw from your having saddled
yourself with a brat who will probably
steal all your silver spoons ? "

I haven't got any silver spoons," answered
Lord Walter, laughing, 'rand you
may draw any conclusion that you like."

"Thanks. You didn't allow me quite

as miicli liberty as that when these sittings
began, if yon remember. They are drawing-near
an end now, I suppose."

I am afraid so," replied Lord Walter
with a sigh.

Hem ! I don't want to be discouraging: ;
but I can't congratulate you upon your
success, so far. You may have caught
the likeness, but you haven't captured the
original yet, I can tell you. Yery far
from it ! "

*' Why do you say that ? " he asked, not
caring to disguise his anxiety.

Lady Spencer made a slight grimace.
I have eyes and ears. I fancy that she
likes you rather better than she did at
starting ; but whether that is to be regarded
as a good sign or not is another
question. If I were in your place, I should
be inclined to try the effect of a little
wholesome neglect.'

But Lord Walter felt no inclination at
all to adopt that prescription.

CHAPTER XL

UNWELCOME NEWS.

Norma was mistaken in supposing that
absence from England had brought about
any cessation of speculative activity on her
father's part. What it had brought about
was only a less direct personal supervision
of his affairs ; and deeply indebted did he
feel to Baron Lammergeier, who, in the
midst of transactions of far greater magnitude,
had kindly offered to look after
his humble little ventures for him. Unfortunately
they did not prosper, notwithstanding
this skilful and experienced
patronage. Post after post brought
disastrous tidings to poor Mr. Shaft ; and
it was really heroic of him to conceal his
worry and anxiety from his daughter,

whose enjoyment of her holiday he did.
not wish to spoil. It may be added that
he shrank from confessing that he had
been guilty of great imprudence ; though
to himself he frankly made that admission.

Indeed, there was no denying it. Lam-merrier,
while writing very sympathetically
to him upon the subject, had felt
bound to tell him so, and had gone on to
say, ^' I wish you had larger sums at your
disposal. Had I a hundred, or even fifty
thousand pounds of yours in my hands at
the present time, I could place them for
you in securities which would not, indeed,
offer to return you fifty per cent., like
some of those with which you have unluckily
meddled, but which would give
you safety, together with a rate of interest
sufficient to render you, comparatively
speaking, a rich man. But these, of course,
are opportunities which seldom present
themselves."

It made Mr. Shaft's mouth water to
read about them. There was the loan

which Baron Lammergeier was about to
float for the government of the newly
constituted principality of Macedonia.
Consols could not be safer, the great man
declared ; yet such were the public ignorance
and distrust that these poor Macedonians
would be made to pay as much for
their money as if they had been Chinese.
Then there Alas the great Trans African
Railway Company. Wise indeed would
those be who secured shares in that undertaking
while shares were to be had at their
present ridiculously low figure ! Moreover
(but this was a profound secret),
Lammergeier thought he saw his way to
obtaining concessions of immense value
from a certain Oriental potentate who was
hard pressed for money, and who, being
quite unaware of the hidden riches of his
dominions, was not going to be enlightened
by better informed persons. This seemed
hard upon the potentate ; but then he
shouldn't have been so careless and extravagant.


Mr. Sbafto, who had also been careless
and extravagant, felt it very hard that he
should be unable to profit by these dazzling
suggestions. Profit by them he certainly

could not, unless When he reached

this point in his cogitations he generally
broke off and tried to think about something
else. He could not help feeling that
it would be rather a shame to sell Hampton.
Letting the house was nothing; anybody
may be obliged to let his house. But
to sever himself finally from the lands
upon which his ancestors had lived for so
many generations would be a terrible
wrench — at any rate, it ought to be a
terrible wrench. To be sure he was the
last of his name, and Brampton would be
something of a white elephant to Norma
if she could not afford to live there. After
this fashion Mr. Shaft took counsel with
himself when letters came to him from his
lawyers with enclosures from Sir Christopher
Shearman, who was very anxious
to buy the place, and very persistent about

it. He would not take ^'No" for an
answer. His first offer having been rejected,
lie promptly made a slightly higher
one, then a higher one yet ; and as Mr.
Shaft's lawyers intimated that the terms
specified would not in any case have been
such as to tempt their client, a process
of bargaining insensibly began, of which
it was not very difficult to predict the
end.

It was after reading one of Liimmer-
geier's seductive letters that Mr. Shaft,
yielding suddenly to temptation, wrote to
his lawyers, instructing them to accept Sir
Christopher's latest bid, which that gentleman
had declared must be regarded as
final. The old gentleman was a good deal
agitated and ashamed of himself as soon
as he had taken this step, but he said
nothing to his daughter, thinking, " What
is the use of distressing her until the deed
is actually done ? After all, it is for her
sake that I am doing it, and perhaps she
won't mind. It is very unlikely that we

should ever have been able to live at
Brampton again."

It so chanced that the same post which
brought him information of the virtual
conclusion of his bargain brought Norma
a long letter from Madge, in which no
mention was made of the sale or purchase
of Brampton, but which contained another
piece of intelligence somewhat unwelcome
to its recipient. Norma could not but
think it a pity that Eome should have
been chosen for the convalescent Sir
Christopher to complete his recovery in ;
and it struck her that Madge was suspiciously
eager to point out that this
choice was her husband's, not her own.

except for seeing yon," Madge wrote,
I don't particularly care about Rome
myself. I would much rather have gone
to Sicily, for instance. But when Christopher
comes out with any scheme which
one would wish to oppose, the only way to
make him drop it like a hot coal is to hail
it with delight. If you begin to object.

you are done for. So Rome it is to be —
and I hope you won't be very sorry to
hear it."

While Norma was knitting her brows
over this somewhat disingenuous epistle,
her father was casting timid and furtive
glances at her. At length he cleared his
voice and said, " You seem to have a very
voluminous piece of correspondence there."

'rit is from Madge Shearman," answered
Norma, looking up. " They are coming
here at once. She says Sir Christopher
requires a change."

'^ Coming here, are they ? That will be
pleasant for you. She doesn't say anything
about — about Brampton, does she ? "

Yes, there is a good deal about the
poor people. She doesn't seem to have
been seeing much of the neighbours, because
of course Sir Christopher hasn't been in a
state to receive visitors. Shall I read you
that part of her letter ? "

No, thanks — no. That wasn't what I
meant. I thought she might have mentioned

— but perhaps her husband hasn't
told her about it. It's as well not to
worry one's women-folk with business
transactions until they're completed, you
know. At least, that's what I think ;
otherwise I should have spoken to you
before this about something which I've had
in my mind for a long time past. I know
you won't like the idea of Brampton being-sold,
but "

Sold ! " interrupted Norma in dismay.
'' Surely you are not thinking of selling,
papa! It can't be necessary to sell, now
that the place is let and Sir Christopher is
paying a high rent for it."

Mr. Shaft made a gesture which was
intended to signify that his patience could
stand any test, but that such a remark as
that was putting rather a severe strain
upon it.

Perhaps, my dear Norma," said he, ina
mildly reproving tone, " you will do me
the justice to admit that 1 should hardly
take a step of this kind if it were unnecessary.

As for my thinking of it —
well, of course I have thought of it very
fully and anxiously, and now I have gone
further than that."

^' You don't mean that you have actually
done it ! "

Yes ; that is what I mean. Really
Norma, I don't see why you should look at
me as if I had parted with my birthright
for a mess of pottage. We don't live in
patriarchal times ; no special sanctity
attaches to land, that I am aware of; and
at least I may say for myself that I have
made a good bargain. In fact, I couldn't
have expected to receive anything like the
price which Sir Christopher has given if
he had not taken a fancy to the place. I
suppose money is no object with him."

Oh, it is Sir Christopher who has
bought Brampton, then ? "

'•' Yes ; and a great piece of luck it is
for me that there was a Sir Christopher
handy ! To find a purchaser for an estate
isn't the easy matter now that it once was.'^

Norma was silent. She could not consider
the discovery of a purchaser lucky in
this instance, nor did she share her father's
opinion that no special sanctity attached to
the possession of land. It seemed to her
that nothing short of necessity could
excuse a man for cutting himself off from
the property which his forefathers had
handed down to him, and with which he
was identified by a hundred ties and
responsibilities. Mr. Shaft, to be sure,
lead pleaded necessity ; but she found it
rather difficult to accept the plea or to
believe that the rent which Sir Christopher
was paying did not represent as much
income as could be derived from the ,
should the latter be invested
in safe securities. What seemed only too
probable was that it would not be invested
in safe securities. For these reasons she
held her tongue, thereby provoking her
father into ]remarking that it was rather
hard upon a man who had done his best
to put a brave face upon misfortune that

lie should be met with black looks at
home.

Well, at all events, there was no use in
looking black, and Norma endeavoured to
imitate the example of courage so modestly
brought to her notice. *' Of course I'm
sorry," she said frankly ; '' but if the
thing had to be done, I'm glad it's over,
and I'm glad you didn't tell me anything
about it before. It was very good of you
to spare me all the worry and uncertainty
that you must have been through."

This praise pleased Mr. Shaft, who
really felt that he deserved it. " It's like
going to the dentist's," said he ; " the
worst part of the business is the sitting
in the waiting-room. Now our teeth are
drawn ; and as we've behaved pretty welland
haven't cried over it, we are entitled
to our little half-crowns. Here is yours."

So saying, he produced a morocco case
which, on being opened, proved to contain
one of those dull-gold necklaces, copied
from Etruscan designs, ibr which the

Woman jewellers are celebrated. The loss
of a perfectly sound tooth is perhaps hardly
to be compensated for by a dole of half a
crown, and it is certain that the receipt of
this necklace was no great consolation to
Norma. However, she thanked her father
and kissed him, and sent him away quite
contented and relieved.

Her reflections Ashen she was left to
herself were by no means so cheerful as
his ; nor was it only the thought that her
old home would henceforth know her no
more that saddened her. She was not so
blind but that she could see what was
likely to come of all this — what, at any
rate, might come of it. She remembered
Mrs. Lammergeier's warning ; she guessed
that her father's motive for parting with
Brampton was the need of ready money.
Doubtless he had had losses which would
probably be followed by further losses —
the end was not hard to foretell. And she
was perfectly helpless. Her father, she
knew, would do a great deal to please her ;

but he certainly would not give up trying
to increase his fortune to please her.
She might as well ask him to change his
boot maker or his political views. Upon
such subjects as these, Mr. Shaft would
have said, women cannot really have an
opinion, because they lack the requisite
knowledge upon which to ground one.

Norma sat idly for a long time in the
sunny little sitting-room, thinking over
the news which that morning had brought
to her, and finding it more and more
unsatisfactory the longer she thought
about it. At last she remembered that she
had promised to lunch with Lady Spencer,
and went to her bedroom to change her
dress.

Some days before this, Walter Sinclair
had reluctantly admitted that the number
of sittings which Miss Shaft had been
kind enough to give him had been more
than sufficient for his purpose, and that
he could not trespass upon her time any
longer. However, though these meetings

had come to an end, his aunt's good-nature
had enabled him to arrange others
without any difficulty, and Norma was not
at all surprised to find him in Lady
Spencer's drawing-room when she arrived
there. She was also glad to see him ; for
she thought that, if she could get an
opportunity of so doing, it would be as
well to prepare him for the possibility of
an encounter which he would naturally
wish to avoid. That such an opportunity
would be afforded to her in the course of
the afternoon was speedily made manifest.

I am going to drive you up to the
Doria-Pamfili gardens after luncheon,"
Lady Spencer announced. " Walter is
coming too, because he thinks he may be
of use in helping you to gather anemones
for me. Perhaps you will allow me to sit
in the carriage and look at you. At my
age, pottering about on damp grass and
stooping down to pick wild-flowers is very
apt to result in an attack of lumbago."
One can't be too careful to avoid risks
VOL. II. 38

of that kind," observed Lord Walter
gravely. " Lumbago is a complaint which
it is a great deal more easy to get than to
get rid of."

What do you know about it ? " retorted
his aunt. " Damp grass is not likely to
give either you or Miss Shaft anything
worse than a cold in the head for a good
many years to come. At the same time, I
should be sorry to be the cause of your
catching cold, and if you think there is
any danger in your getting out of the
carriage, I am sure I shall be only too glad
for you to remain in it with me."

However, when the gardens of the
Doria-Pamfili Villa were reached, the grass
was found to be as dry as a bone ; and
indeed if it had been soaking Lord Walter
would hardly have been deterred by that
circumstance from assisting Norma to fill
her hand-basket with the anemones for
which that locality has been famous from
time immemorial. They wandered away
to some little distance from the road, along

which Lady Spencer had herself slowly
driven, and Norma at once took advantage
of their privacy to say, " I heard to-day
from Madge Shearman, who is coming
here very soon. Sir Christopher requires
a change, it seems. I don't know whether
I ever mentioned to you that he had had a
bad accident out hunting some time ago."

You didn't mention it," answered Lord
Walter, "but I saw a paragraph about it
in the newspapers. He didn't break his
neck, I think."

'' Well, hardly : people don't travel
about with broken necks. You speak as
if you rather wished that he had."

I ? Oh no ; he is welcome to have as
many necks as the Hydra and to keep
them all intact, so far as I am concerned.
Only I suppose that if he had happened to
break the one that he possesses nobody
would have been inconsolable."

Norma made no immediate reply to a
remark which seemed to her to be in
rather bad taste; but after a time she

resumed : " Madge doesn't write as if she
were anxious about her husband ; but he
must still be more or less of an invalid,
I should think. Perhaps they will go
further south before long."

They will stay over Easter, you maybe
sure. Not that that will be much
worth their while ; but English people
always think it a duty to see what they
call ' the ceremonies.' "

I suppose it really isn't much worth
while," assented Norma somewhat eagerly.
Everybody says that Easter in Rome is
quite a different thing from what it used
to be. Shall you be here at that time, do
you think ? "

Lord Walter glanced at her and laughed.
"For whose sake do you want me to go
away, Miss Shaft ? " he inquired. " I'll
go if you like, though I'm rather busy just
now, and it won't be very convenient to
leave my work ; but I should like to know
your motive for wishing to banish me, if it
isn't impertinent to ask ? "

To tell the truth," answered Norma,
I thought you yourself might wish to go.
Eome is not such a very small place,
though, and no doubt you will be able to
avoid meeting Madge if you choose."

But I don't wish to avoid her," he
declared. " Why should I ? I told you,
you know, that I had recovered my sanity.
You really need feel no anxiety on my
account."

Norma would have given a good deal
to be able to reply that she felt no anxiety
on Madge's account, but that she could not
do. Madge, of course, might have been
changed and sobered by marriage ; but
that did not seem certain, and it was
rather for Madge's sake than for Lord
Walter's that she thought it desirable to
keep these two persons apart.

I dare say it doesn't much matter," she
said rather coldly, at length. '' I think
that if I were in your place, I should feel
it rather uncomfortable and awkward to
have to renew my acquaintance with

Madge ; but different people have different
ways of looking at things."

I don't look at it in that way, at all
events," answered Walter. '' I have no
feeling about the matter except one of
sincere thankfulness to Lady Shearman
for having opened ray eyes to my own
lunacy."

Do you know what I think ? " said
Norma abruptly. " I think that if you
were so completely cured of what you call
your lunacy as you profess to be, you
would be less bitter against Madge."

He had in truth somewhat overshot the
mark in his eagerness to convince her that
his former love was extinct. It seemed to
her that he must either be still smarting or
singularly fickle ; nor was she disposed to
listen very patiently to his protestations
that he cherished no bitter sentiments at
all against Lady Shearman.

Well," she cut these short by remarking,
" I am glad to hear it ; and I hope
in future you won't hint that she would

have been pleased if her husband had
broken his neck."

I only said she probably wouldn't have
been inconsolable. Do you really think
that Sir Christopher's death would leave
anybody inconsolable ? "

"I think he has good qualities, and I
know he has been good to the Brampton
people. They are his own people now,"
added Norma a little sadly ; " for he has
bought the whole estate."

Thus another turn was given to the
conversation, which was prolonged until
Lady Spencer sent her footman to put an
end to it.

CHAPTER XII.

LORD WALTER FORGETS HIS MANNERS.

Sir Christopher and Lady Shearman
arrived at the Hotel Bristol in a style
befitting personages of their wealth, with
a courier, a valet, a maid and a cartload
of luggage. Mr. Shaft, who happened
to be looking out of the window
when the carriage which had been sent to
meet them stopped at the door, rushed
downstairs to give them a hearty welcome ;
for it did not strike him that people who
have just been released, weary and dirty,
from prolonged confinement in a railway-carriage
are seldom in the mood to appreciate
being heartily welcomed. Norma,
more discreet, contented herself with sending
a message to the effect that she hoped Lady

Shearman, when she was rested, would
come in and have a cup of tea with her.

About an hour later, Madge, arrayed ina
very elaborate tea-gown, embraced her
affectionately, exclaiming, " You dear old
Norma ! How funny it is to see you
looking exactly the same as ever ! "

It would be still more funny if I were
altered, wouldn't it ? " said Norma, smiling.
Nothing has happened to alter me during
the last few months. You don't look very
much changed either, Madge."

Do I not ? " returned Madge, ensconcing
herself in an armchair, tucking
one leg under her, and swinging the other
lazily. " Then all I can say is that appearances
are deceptive. I'm an old married
woman now — very old and very married.
I don't suppose that since the world
began there ever was anybody quite so
much married as I am."

'' That sounds satisfactory."

Y^'ou think so, do you ? Well, perhaps
it may ; but I can assure you that it doesn't

feel satisfactory. Admitting that your
husband was the most agreeable companion
in the world — and I should think that
was rather more than Christopher's dearest
friends, if he has any, would claim for him
you would still like from time to time to
be allowed to exchange a word or two with
somebody else, wouldn't you? I mustn't
exchange words with anybody — not even
with my own mother."

You are allowed to exchange words
with me, it seems."

'' Only upon sufferance. Christopher hasa
high opinion of you ; he thinks your
example and society may do me good.
But he won't quite like it if I see even
you every day. In this instance," continued
Madge composedly, " I feel justified
in saying that he may lump it. Because I
am not going to be in the same house with
you and go without seeing you every day.
Oh, if you knew what a relief it is to look
at your good old face and to feel that I
may talk just as I please once more ! "

If there was a living being whom Madge
loved, it was Norma Shaft, and her
pleasure at being reunited with that trusty
friend was quite unfeigned. For the
moment, she had forgotten all about Lord
Walter Sinclair and her fear that Norma
had supplanted her in his affections. She
wanted to be sympathized with and petted,
as of old ; she wanted to have a good
grumble at her husband ; and in this she
was permitted to indulge, with very few
interruptions, for fully half an hour. Norma
knew better than to remonstrate with her
until she had had her breath out ; and it
must in fairness be confessed that she had
something to grumble at.

Of course, while he was ill, one was
sorry for him and humoured him," Madge
said ; " but now that he is all right again,
it does seem to me that my turn has come.
Amusement of some sort or kind I must
have, or perish, and if we go on as we
have begun, no amusement of any kind
will be obtainable at Brampton ; for he

objects to my showing the smallest civility
to any of the neighbours. By the way, I
don't know whether I ought to condole
with you or congratulate you upon our
having come into possession of the place."

Personally, I can't feel it to be a matter
for congratulation," answered Norma. " As
you may imagine, I didn't want Brampton
to be sold."

No ; only if Mr. Shaft was determined
to sell, as Christopher says he was, he was
fortunate in being able to sell so soon, I
suppose. As for me, I don't congratulate
myself — though perhaps it is as good a place
to be buried alive in as another. No tomb
can be exactly a cheerful abode, can it ? "

I suspect that you will be away from
home for at least half the year," said
Norma. " You will be sure to go up to
London for a part of the season, and then
you will be in Scotland for the shooting,
I suppose, and now, you see, you are in
Rome."

Yes ; but whether I shall be permitted

to do as the Romans do is another question.
By the way, how do the Romans amuse
themselves during Lent ? How have you
been amusing yourselves ? I don't call
picture-galleries and churches and ruins
places of amusement, you know. You doa
little in the way of social intercourse, I
presume."

Well, not very much. Of course there
aren't many entertainments just now, but
we have a few friends whom we see pretty
constantly. There is a Mr. Grey, belonging
to the Embassy, whom I rather like,
and Lady Spencer Sinclair, an aunt of
Lord Walter's — and of course Lord Walter
himself."

Norma thought it as well that this last
name should not be rendered conspicuous
by omission, and she was glad to notice
that the sound of it produced no perceptible
effect upon the emotions of Lady Shearman,
who only remarked —

Oh yes ; he's here, to be sure ! I
should rather like to see him again. I

wonder whether Christopher could be
persuaded to ask him to dinner ? "

Nothing more was said about Lord
Walter during the remainder of the interview
; but at breakfast the next morning
Madge remarked casually to her husband,
who had expressed his intention of going
out and looking up some of his acquaintances,
" I wish you would look up Lord
Walter Sinclair among the rest, and get
him to come and dine some evening and
meet the Shaftos. He is a great friend of
theirs, you know."

Is he ? " returned Sir Christopher, not
looking best pleased. " Then I suppose he
can see them without dining with us. He's
no great friend of mine, anyhow. Why
are you so anxious to have him here ? "

I'm not in the least anxious," answered
Madge indifferently ; "I thought he would
do to talk to Norma, that was all. But I
dare say you can find somebody else."

Sir Christopher was as much in love with
his wife as he had ever been. He always

wished and tried to gratify her, and if he
very often tormented her, he quite as often
reproached himself for it afterwards. So
when he had been to the banker's, and had
left a card at the Embassy, and had looked
in at the club, to which he had been
introduced as a visitor, it struck him that
after all there was no reason why Lord
Walter Sinclair should not be asked to
dinner as much as any other young man.
He therefore inquired the address of his
intended guest, and shortly afterwards was
shown by Beppo into the studio where
Walter, who was hard at work, was not a
little surprised to see him.

Well, Sinclair," said Sir Christopher ina
very friendly way, '• how are you ? My
wife and I are in Eome for a short time,
and, hearing that you were here, I thought
I'd take the liberty of dropping in to say
good morning."

Walter made a civil reply. The last
time that he had seen his visitor had been
at Mrs. Lacy's ball, when they had so

nearly come to an open quarrel over the
lady who was now Lady Shearman. He
thought of that episode sand was faintly
amused by the reminiscence. So much
had happened since then, and Sir Christopher
had so completely ceased to be a
person worth quarrelling with.

Sir Christopher, at all events, did not
now seem at all disposed to be quarrelsome.
He sat down and talked about
Rome and about the hunting in Stourshire,
giving a full account of his accident : after
which it occurred to him that, since he was
in a studio, he ought to get up and take
some notice of the owner's works. Thus
he presently came to a standstill before the
figure of Charity, with which he was
greatly struck.

Well," he exclaimed, " if ever I saw
Miss Shaft in my life ! — Is it really meant
for a likeness of her ? "

After a fashion, it is," answered the
sculptor. " The figure, of course, doesn't
represent Miss Shaft; it represents Charity.

But Miss Sbafto very kindly consented to
give me a few sittings for the bead."

*a see," said Sir Christopher. "Well,
you couldn't have chosen a more appropriate
model for your purpose. Miss Shaft is
charity itself, as I've found out since I've
been living at Brampton. I've done my
best to keep up the different works that she
started ; I felt that it wouldn't be fair tolet
them drop, even though some of them
were not quite so judicious as they might
have been. But perhaps it's all the more
creditable to her heart that she didn't
allow herself to be very much swayed by
her judgment. Of which," added Sir
Christopher generously, " I must say that
she has a good deal more than most
women."

She will be pleased at having your
approval," observed "Walter.

Well, I don't know about that ; but I
dare say she'll be pleased to hear that I
haven't sent some folks to the workhouse
who ought to be there by rights. By the

VOL. II. 34

by, my wife told me to say that she hoped
you would come and dine with us tomorrow
and meet the Shaftos."

Walter hesitated. He had been perfectly
truthful in assuring Norma that he had no
wish to avoid Lady Shearman ; nevertheless
he did not quite like the idea of accepting
hospitality from Sir Christopher. Also he
was aware that he would feel, and probably
look, a little awkward if his first meeting
with his former love should take place in
Norma's presence. For these reasons he
made up his mind to decline the invitation,
but he did not make it up so quickly, nor
was his excuse so intelligible, but that his
disinclination to be entertained was quite
apparent. This neither distressed nor
offended Sir Christopher. He, for his part,
had done what he had been requested todo
: if Lord Walter didn't want to come
to dinner, why, he might stay away and
welcome.

I told him you wished him to dine with
us, and I mentioned that the Shaftos would

be there," said he, in giving an account of
the interview subsequently to his wife,
but he mumbled out something: about
being afraid he couldn't manage it — evidently
didn't think it good enough, in fact.
So then I came away."

It is possible that Madge might have
ascribed this reluctance to causes not unflattering
to her vanity, and that she might
therefore have pardoned it if Sir Christopher
had not gone on to remark —

All the same, I rather wonder at his
refusing, under the circumstances ; for, unless
I'm very much mistaken. Miss Shaft
has made a conquest of him. He had a
full-length statue of her in his studio, for
which she has been giving him sittings, he
says."

A full-length statue ! " repeated Madge
incredulously. " AVhat in the world can
she be going to do with it ! "

'' Oh, it isn't nominally a statue of her,
though it's a likeness and an uncommonly
good one too. He calls it Charity."

How idiotic ! " exclaimed Madge.

Why idiotic ? Nobody can deny that
Miss Shaft is charitable; and when you
come to think of it she looks charitable.
It struck me as rather a happy inspiration."


'' Did it indeed ? " returned his wife, ina
tone of ill-concealed vexation. '^ I should
have called it a great liberty ; and I wonder
Mr. Shaft didn't think it so. I am very
sure that you wouldn't have liked it if
Lord Walter had asked me to sit to him
and had exhibited me publicly afterwards
as a partially draped embodiment of one of
the virtues."

That's another thing," answered Sir
Christopher. " You are married, and Miss
Shaft isn't. Besides, I don't see how you
could have been made to fit the part."

Certainly Lady Shearman did not at that
moment look like the embodiment of any
virtue. Not only was she much put outby
what she chose to consider as Lord
Walter's deliberate rudeness, but she was

greatly vexed to hear of Norma's visits to
his studio. Norma (so she reasoned) would
never have compromised herself in that
way unless she had been either engaged
or about to become engaged to the man
with whose name her own must inevitably
be connected by the gossips ; and surely it
was both surprising and deplorable that
Norma should have so little pride. In any
case, the matter demanded investigation,
and Madge determined to investigate it.
This however was not so easily done ; for
she hesitated to question her friend directly,
and Norma, though she did not avoid
mentioning Lord Walter, volunteered very
little information about him.

Oh yes ; I sat to him for his statue of
Charity," she confessed, without any embarrassment.
" I hope it will be a success,
and I really think it will. He has been
getting on very well lately : so much so
that many good judges say he will be a
great sculptor some day."

'' Great or small," observed Madge, " I

shouldn't have thought that you would
care to be advertised as his model."

^'1 don't think I mind much," answered
Norma. " After all, very few people know
me, and he is not likely to advertise the
fact that I sat to him."

He seems to tell people about it, anyhow.
He told Christopher the other
day."

*' But I don't want him to make a secret
of it," Norma declared. '' If I were ashamed
of it I shouldn't have done it."

All this was very tantalizing ; and what
increased Madge's irritation was that Lord
Walter showed no eagerness to return Sir
Christopher's call. Several days elapsed
without his performing this act of ordinary
civility, although one afternoon Madge
happened to hear that he had actually been
to the hotel to see the Shaftos.

'' Lord Walter appears to have left his
manners behind him in England," she could
not resist saying to Norma. " When he
was in the same house with us he might

have taken the trouble to ask whether we
were at home, I think."

^' He was rather in a hurry," answered
Norma not over judiciously ; '' he only
came in for a minute to say that his aunt
expected me to dinner this evening. I
believe we are to go and see the Coliseum
by moonlight afterwards."

Madge was quite unable to hold out
against the temptation which suggested
itself to her. " I too will visit the Coliseum
this evening," said she demurely. ^' It is
a thing which ought certainly to be done ;
and I can imagine nothing more charming
than roaming about the ruins with Christopher
by moonlight. I presume that you
will take Mr. Shaft with you to talk to
Lord Walter's aunt."

Papa talks of meeting us there," answered
Norma, who perceived that Madge
would not be dissuaded from her project;
he is not going to dine with Lady
Spencer."

'' Then he had better dine with us, and

we'll meet you at the entrance. That will
do capitally."

Mr. Shaft expressed his entire satisfaction
with this arrangement when it was
made known to him. " I'm no very enthusiastic
admirer of moonlight myself,"
he confided to Lady Shearman during
dinner ; " by my way of thinking, sunlight
is infinitely more beautiful, besides being a
great deal more wholesome. However, if
this sort of thing has to be done, I'm glad
to do it in pleasant company. I can assure
you I didn't half like the idea of wandering
about outside that lonely Coliseum
all by myself until it suited the others to
appear."

Madge had fully considered the question
of whether she should be late or early at
the place of meeting, and had finally decided
upon being there in good time. For one
thing, she was not at all sure that Lady
Spencer would wait ; added to which, she
had mentally determined upon a distribution
of forces which she thought would be

more easily carried out if she were first in
the field.

Thus, when Lady Spencer's carriage
drove up, Walter Sinclair, after exchanging
greetings with Mr. Shaft and Sir Christopher
and looking about in vain for Lady
Shearman, was accosted somewhat suddenly
by a little lady, wrapped up in costly furs,
who stepped out of the deep shadow of the
wall into the bright moonlight and said,
I suppose we may salute one another in
the customary manner now, Lord Walter.
When we parted, you declined to shake
hands with me, I remember."

Now Walter, who had been prepared for
this encounter, had likewise been prepared
to relieve it of all awkwardness by a happy
combination of civility and indifference ;
but he had not been at all prepared for
such an allusion as that ; so he took off
his hat and held out his hand, and could
think of no better rejoinder than, " Oh,
how do you do, Lady Shearman ? 1 didn't
see you at first."

She had gained her object by depriving
him of his presence of mind. Sir Christopher,
as she had anticipated would bethe
case, had already attached himself to
Norma and was moving slowly towards
the arena ; Mr. Shaft and Lady Spencer
were following, and the success of her
manoeuvre seemed to be assured.

Poor fellow ! " she said, with a mocking
side-glance at her companion ; '^ this is
hard upon you. But cheer up ; you shall
be released when you have satisfied my
curiosity upon a few points. And first of
all, I should rather like to know why you
won't dine with an old friend or even leave
a card for her at the door."

CHAPTER XIII.

A BAD QUARTER OF AN HOUR.

Lord Walter perceived that he was in for
it. Madge evidently did not intend to
ignore the past, and, that being so, it was
doubtless as well that she should be made
to understand by how wide a gulf it was
separated from the present. Therefore,
although he did not much enjoy the prospect
of wasting a quarter of an hour upon
her which he had proposed to employ more
pleasantly, he resigned himself to his fate,
and offered no objection when he noticed
that his companion was moving in a direction
opposite to that which had been taken
by the rest of the party.

'' I'm sorry I wasn't able to dine with
you when you were so kind as to ask me,

Lady Shearman," said he, in reply to her
question, '' and I harshly apologize for
having neglected to leave a card. The
omission shall be repaired tomorrow. My
only excuse is that I am very busy."

*' That is an excellent excuse, and nothing
could be more politely worded," observed
Madge; "but, you see, it doesn't happen
to be an answer. I didn't ask whether
you were sorry that you were unable, etc.,
etc. I asked why you wouldn't dine with

US.

Well, if you insist upon absolute
honesty, m}^ reason for declining was
partly that I didn't think you could be
very anxious to see me."

Although I despatched my husband to
invite you ? You must give me credit fora
high idea of the duties of hospitality.
However, that was only a part of your
reason, it seems. May one venture to
inquire what was the other part ? "

Really I'm afraid I can't state it
without being rude."

Pray don't let that deter you. You
may be rude to me if you like ; it won't
be quite the first time."

*' Then I will confess that I was not
very anxious to see you. It sounds a
brutal speech to make to a lady ; but you
would have it — and I dare say you will
admit that there was some justification for
my not being anxious to see you."

Madge, at all events, did not seem to be
offended. She walked slowly on for some
little distance before she said, " Does that
mean that you still bear malice ? "

Not the least in the world ; far from
it," he replied, with somewhat unnecessary
emphasis.

Oh ! Then I must say that I don't see
where the justification comes in," Madge
declared ; and this time there was a decided
ring of displeasure in her voice.

It seems to me," returned Walter,
'• that this conversation is pretty good
evidence of it. We might have met as
ordinary acquaintances, making no reference

to bygone — unpleasantness ; but I
doubted whether you would agree to that,
and it was obvious that we couldn't meet
comfortably upon any other terms. I am
now more than ever convinced that I was
wise to decline your invitation."

' Bygone unpleasantness ! ' " repeated
Madge. " So that is the way you look
now at what I thought was a bygone
friendship ! I hoped it wasn't quite bygone
either."

It ended after a fashion which was
distinctly unpleasant for me ; but I will
gladly withdraw the expression, if you
dislike it. I only meant to say that if we
couldn't meet without alluding to what is
unquestionably bygone, it was better for
us not to meet at all."

Yet you say that you don't bear malice.
You are a little incomprehensible, do you
know."

They had now mounted to one of the
higher tiers of the amphitheatre. The
moonlight fell upon the opposite side of

the vast circle and illumined the figures of
Mr. Shaft, Lady Spencer, Sir Christopher,
and Norma ; but they themselves were in
deep shadow. Lord Walter sat down, with
the air of one who is resolved to end a
discussion.

If you will kindly tell me how I can
possibly make myself more comprehensible,"
said he, " I will endeavour to do so."

Perhaps you can't," answered Madge ;
'^ perhaps I shall have to arrive at a comprehension
of you without your help.
What I am curious to discover is whether
you have utterly and entirely changed in
these few months, and, if so, why you
have changed ? "

Whatever might be thought of the
taste of that remark, it had at least the
merit of rendering all euphemisms and
circumlocutions unnecessary.

I certainly have changed," answered
Walter without hesitation. " I admit it ;
and I am not in the least ashamed of it.
If you ask me why I have changed, I

suppose T can only say that it is because I
know now that I made a very great mistake
a few months ago."

Oh, that's of course. You thought I
was an angel, and you found out that I
was only a woman like other women.
Perhaps that is scarcely a reason for
shunning me as though I had the plague."

Excuse me, I never thought that you
were an angel. What I thought was that
I was in love with you. Well, you are
married to another man now, and you
never cared for me ; so I suppose you
won't mind my saying that I was mistaken
there."

I don't mind your saying it a bit ; but
I doubt your having been mistaken as to
the fact," answered Madge, with a short
laugh.

It is a question of definition. In one
sense of the phrase I was, no doubt, in
love with you ; but even in that sense I
ceased to be so very soon after a certain
afternoon which you will remember. Now,

Lady Shearman, I have told you the
honest truth, and I hope I have satisfied
your curiosity. Don't you think that this
is a very disagreeable sort of interview, and
that we had better bring it to a close ? "

"You can't accuse yourself of having
neglected any means of making it disagreeable,"
replied Madge. She added, after a
moment or two of silence, '' I have brought
it upon myself, so of course I have no right
to complain ; but I must say that if you
Averse disappointed in me, I am quite as
much disappointed in you."

I don't see why you should be. Surely
you can have no reason for wishing me to
love you still."

I don't wish anything of the sort. T
Ravished to be friends with you, if you
would have consented to it ; but I am not
sure that I wish even that any longer. [
don't think your friendship can be worth
much, or your love either, since you can
transfer it so quickly and easily from one
person to another."

VOL. u. 35

Walter was prudent enough to let this
accusation pass in silence. He could not
well deny, nor was he desirous of admitting,
that he had transferred his love from one
person to another ; and, upon the face of it,
he certainly had been guilty of fickleness.
All things considered, though he felt a
little uncomfortable, and was conscious of
having spoken rather too roughly and
unequivocally, he was inclined to congratulate
himself upon having at least
come to a clear understanding with Madge.
Probably she would give him a wide berth
for the future, and that was in every way
the best thing that could happen. Presently
he said, " Hadn't we better be
looking for the others ? "

She assented by rising, without making
any articulate reply ; and they set out in
search of their friends, who however had
some time before this disappeared from
view.

Norma was a good deal alarmed when
she saw Madge manoeuvre Lord Walter

away from the rest of the party. It was
nothing more than she had expected, but
it was alarming nevertheless; and she
glanced rather nervously at her companion
to see how he would take it. Happily, Sir
Christopher's face exhibited no symptoms
of inward perturbation. There was just
this consolatory feature about Sir Christopher's
malady, that he was seldom jealous
of one individual in particular, and that his
wife should have paired off with Lord
Walter did not, for the moment, cause
him any more anxiety than if she had
selected Mr. Shaft as her escort. Moreover,
he had dined well and was in good
humour.

It's a great piece of luck for us to have
met you. Miss Shaft," said he. " At
least, one can't exactly call it luck, I suppose,
because we shouldn't have come to
Rome if you hadn't been here ; but I'm
very glad that we've managed to arrange
a meeting."

Norma said what the occasion appeared

to require, and Sir Chris tother went on :
'^ We're here nominally on my account ^
you know ; but between you and me,
that's only a pretext. I hate foreign parts,
and I'd a great deal rather have gone upto
London for a bit, when my hunting was
knocked off, than come abroad. However,
it amuses the wife to travel about — which
is a point that one has to consider."

I am sure you are quite right to consider
it," Norma declared, perceiving that
he expected some such reply.

Well, yes ; although I'm not certain —
still, once in a way doesn't make a rule ;
and if we were to leave home and our
friends there, I don't know anybody whom
I'd rather see her associating with than
you, Miss Shaft."

Madge hasn't a great many friends
near Brampton, I think," observed Norma.

She knows everybody within ten or
fifteen miles of us ; and that means a
fairish lot of people. Of course we don't
have dinner-parties every night or balls

Twice a week; but I don't call it a dull
county, do you ? "

*' I never found it so ; but then I'm not
accustomed to gaiety, and I don't much
cave about it. Besides, I always had
plenty to do."

'• Exactly so ; you made occupations for
yourself. I don't know," added Sir Christopher
somewhat ruefully, " why Madge
can't make occupations for herself; but
apparently she can't — and the consequence
is that she finds Brampton rather slow. I
dare say she has told you so ? "

Norma thought it best to ignore that
question. '' Madge is not at all like me,"
she remarked ; '' her tastes are altogether
different from mine."

Then I wish you could make her more
like you and get her to adopt some of your
tastes," Sir Christopher declared emphatically.


•' I have no doubt you do," answered
Norma, laughing. " It would be very convenient
for you if she liked the monotonous

kind of existence that satisfied me ; because
then you could amuse yourself all day long
with hunting and shooting and feel no
qualms of conscience."

That is as much as to say that you
consider me a selfish brute''

I don't consider you a brute at all, and
I dare say you are not more selfish than
other people," answered Norma, who in
truth was far more anxious to retain Sir
Christopher's attention for the time being
than to convict him of egotism ; " only it
seems a little funny that you should complain
of Madge's selfishness."

Sir Christopher became grave. " I don't
complain," said he ; "I have nothing to
complain of. All I say is that, for her
own sake, I wish Madge could interest
herself as you did in the people among
whom she has to live."

I don't at all wonder at your wishing
it. And I shouldn't at all wonder if she
wished that you could interest yourself in
the people among whom she would like to

live. Madge is just as fond of society as
you are of sport. Fortunately the London
season comes at a time of year when there
is no sport to be had in the country."

T haven't refused to take her up to
London for the season," returned Sir
Christopher somewhat sullenly ; " but I
haven't promised to do it either, and I
don't see my way to making any promise.
Society ' means a good deal more than
two months of London, Miss Shaft.
Women who say they are fond of society
won't be satisfied to remain quietly at
home for ten months out of the year."

That was probably true. Norma's own
opinion was that a wife ought always to
give way to her husband ; but, not wishing
to propound that view of conjugal relations
to one who so evidently shared it, and
suspecting that she had already said as
much on Madge's behalf as it would be at
all prudent to say, she shifted her ground.

It will be a very good thing for the
Brampton people if you really stay ten

mouths out of the year there," she remarked.
*' So many people spend their time and
their money away from home nowadays.
That is the one thing that consoles me a
little for being homeless ; I don't feel that
wee are robbing anybody by wandering
about upon the Continent."

''Ah, yes — I suppose so. And Mr.
Shaft intends to lead a wandering life
now, does he ? " said Sir Christopher abstractedly.


He was apt to become abstracted when
anybody's affairs but his own were under
discussion, and he did not hear much of
what Norma told him about the probability
that her father would settle in London.
Moreover, his wife's prolonged absence was
beginning at last to make him uneasy.
^' What in the world can Madge be about ! ''
he exclaimed abruptly. '^ She can't have
lost herself, can she ? "

At this moment they were joined by
Lady Spencer, who had had quite enough
of Mr. Shaft, and who also thought that

lier nephew ought to have had more than
onoiig'h of Lady Shearman. "If we stand
tihout here much longer," she said, " we
shall take away a pleasant memory of our
moonlight expedition in the shape of a
fever. It seems to me that the time has
come for ns to reassemble our forces and
go home. Have you seen anything of
Walter?"

"Not very lately"' answered Norma,
who indeed had seen nothing of him since
lier arrival.

Then," said Lady Spencer, " perhaps
somebody will be good enough to give him
a shout."

Somebody, in the person of Sir Christopher
Shearman, promptly raised a bellow
which might have been heard half a mile
off, but which nevertheless met with no
response. As a matter of fact. Lord
Walter did hear it and at once hurried his
companion towards the point whence it
lead proceeded ; it was no fault of his that
by the time he reached that point the

impatient Sir Christopher was seeking for
him at the opposite extremity of the amphitheatre.
Thus began a chase which, quite
against the will of all who were concerned
in it, proved a protracted one. To catch
within a limited space a man who is trying
to evade capture is a feat which can
generally be accomplished, because the
chances are that he will end by blundering
into your arms ; but two persons who,
under the same conditions, are trying to
catch one another are very apt to run
round and round until one of them drops,
and so it came to pass that Lord Walter
and Sir Christopher had lost both their
breath and their patience when at last
they met. The latter, unfortunately had
lost his temper into the bargain.

Confound it all ! " he gasped, " this is
beyond a joke ! Didn't you hear me call
to you ? — you must have heard me !
We've been looking for you all over the
place. And what the deuce have you done
with my wife ? "

I am sorry to have given you so much
trouble," answered Walter ; " we, too, have
been looking for you everywhere. As for
Lady Shearman, she has been sitting in
her carriage for some time past. I took
her there when she seemed to be getting
tired."

I don't believe a word of it ! " returned
Sir Christopher rudely. " I went out to
see whether she was in the carriage not
two minutes ago."

Lord Walter was one of those enviable
persons who grow cool when they are
angry. To be put to the utmost inconvenience
and annoyance, and to be called
a liar afterwards, is enough to make any
man angry. Consequently he replied with
studied politeness, " I think you must be
making a little miscalculation as to time.
If you had been to your carriage two
minutes, or even ten minutes ago, you
would have found Lady Shearman in it."

Of course ! — of course ! " chimed in Mr.
Shaft, who had hastened up, and who

perceived that a disagreeable scene could
only be averted by the intervention of a
judicious third person. '^ Shearman was
getting anxious — and so were we all for
that matter — and under such circumstances,
you know, one loses count of time. Anyhow,
we must not let Lady Shearman run
the risk of catching a chill by sitting there
any longer, eh ? "

Lady Spencer concurred cordially. " For
goodness' sake, let us all get to our
respective homes as quickly as we can ! "
she exclaimed. " To-morrow morning we
shall perhaps be in a fitter temper to
decide who is to blame for the absurd way
in which we have been scampering about
after one another. All I know is that it
wouldn't be safe for anybody to blame me
just now."

But Sir Christopher had worked himself
up into a passion, and did not mean to be
silenced by any third person, judicious or
otherwise. ^' There can't be much question
as to who has been to blame," he growled.

Excuse me for interrupting you," said
Lord Walter, " but really I think you had
better stop there. You are making yourself
supremely ridiculous, and you evidently
don't know what you are saying. You
can come and quarrel with me at my own
house if you still feel inclined to do so
after sleeping upon it; but we won't
wrangle here, please."

Somewhat to the surprise of the bystanders,
Sir Christopher turned tail. He
hastened away towards the entrance, muttering
under his breath, and presently the
others followed him in silence and at a
rather slower pace. They caught him up
in time to hear the concluding words of
the furious invective with which lie had
thought fit to assail his wife.

*' I only hope you've enjoyed your
evening ! " he shouted, as he flung himself
down in the carriage beside her. " Because

this will be the very last chance that you'll
get of enjoying yourself in such a way — I
don't mind telling you that much ! " Then
he called out an angry order to the coachman,
and so was driven away, without
having gone through the formality of
saying good night to anybody.

I am glad," observed Mr. Sliafto
mildly, " that there are four seats in your
carriage, Lady Spencer. Our friend Shear-man
seems to have forgotten that he offered
me a lift. He is sometimes a little — shall
we say vehement ? — in his ways of going
on.

He appears to me," returned Lady
Spencer, who was herself slightly ruffled,
to combine all the worst characteristics of
the bear, the monkey, and the mongrel. I
sincerely hope that I shall never be asked
to meet him again."

Lord Walter took advantage of a short
interval, during which Mr. Shaft was
helping Lady Spencer into her carriage
and tucking her rugs round her, to whisper

to Norma, *' I hope you don't think that I
have been consulting my own inclinations
to-night." And as she did not reply
immediately he added, with a touch of
impatience, " You can't think so. That
really would be the last straw ! "

Oh, I don't think so," answered
Xorma ; "it couldn't have been pleasant
for you, of course. But it is very unfortunate.
I should have thought you might
have foreseen what was likely to happen ;
and I should have thought you might have
prevented it."

He obtained no further opportunity of
defending himself, and when he reached
the seclusion of his dimly lighted studio
his wrath against Madge was greater even
than his wrath against the senseless Sir
Christopher.

I didn't foresee what was likely to
happen," he soliloquized ; " how on earth
was I to foresee it ? One doesn't calculate
upon having to deal with raving lunatics.
But she must have known what she was

about well enoiigli ; and, upon my word,
I'm not sure that that amiable husband
of hers was wrong in declaring that the
whole thing was deliberately planned.
She has made matters extremely uncomfortable
for me, if that is any satisfaction
to her. The only comfort is that, after
this, she can hardly speak to me again."

CHAPTER Xii.

SIR Christopher's contrition.

In" considerately intimating to Sir Christopher
Shearman that he would be found
at home the next morning by anybody
who might desire to quarrel with him,
Walter had not imagined that his suggestion
was at all likely to be acted upon,
and indeed had very soon forgotten that
he had ever made it. But he was reminded
of having said something of the sort whenas
he was smoking his matutinal pipe, Sir
Christopher was ushered into his studio by
Beppo, who announced the visitor in a
characteristically Italian manner with the
remark, " Here is that red one again."

By this description of a person with the
pronunciation of whose name he felt quite

VOL. II. 36

unable to grapple, Beppo had doubtless
only intended to make a graceful allusion
to the colouring of Sir Christopher s beard ;
but at the moment it applied with equal
force to the whole of that gentleman's face,
which was suffused with a rich crimson
glow. And this, it presently appeared,
Alas not the flush of anger, but the blush
of shame. Sir Christopher had allowed
the moon to go down upon his wrath, but
the sun had risen upon his contrition, and
he had come to say so.

I owe you an apology, Sinclair," he
began. "I'm afraid I insulted you. last
night, or went very near it — at any rate,
I'm told that I did — and — and I hope
you'll overlook any rude things that I may
have said. To tell the truth, I can't remember
what I did say."

Lord Walter did not like Sir Christopher,
and would gladly have dispensed with
excuses which it was impossible to accept
otherwise than in a friendly spirit. Nevertheless,
he could not help feeling a little

sorry for the unfortunate man, who obviously
did not enjoy eating humble pie
and who had brought out the above confession
with a Awry face ; so he answered in
as cordial a tone as he could command :
My dear sir, pray don't think any more
about it. I'm only sorry that you should
have taken the trouble to come here and
apologize. I quite understood at the time
that you had lost your temper and didn't
mean exactly what you said."

'^ Well, yes, I lost my temper, no doubt,"
agreed Sir Christopher ; " and I suppose
no man ought ever to lose his temper —
though it isn't an easy matter to keep it
sometimes. I dare say you'll admit that I
had some excuse for losing mine last night."

This Walter really could not admit ; but,
not wishing to appear ungracious, he said
rather vaguely, " Oh, it doesn't matter."

Not to you perhaps, but it matters a
good deal to me. What is one to think
when one's wife disappears like that with
a fellow — I mean with another man, who

who — well, I may have been mistaken ^
of course ; and I don't deny that I pout
myself in the wrong ; bnt "

You really were mistaken," interrupted
Walter. " Lady Shearman didn't disappear
intentionally. I did my best to find
you, and during the greater part of the
time I was searching alone, because Lady
Shearman very soon got tired and went to
her carriage."

Sir Christopher put on a somewhat
embarrassed smile. It was evident that he
wanted to believe this statement, and it
was also evident that he had something tO'
say which he found a difficulty in expressing.
He fidgeted about the studio and
made several attempts to speak, which
died away in gasps and grunts ; finally he
came to a standstill, and, facing the other
man, as his habit was, without looking at
him, blurted out : " The fact of the matter
is, Sinclair, that there was a time when I
was rather afraid of you. I dare say you
remember that ball at Mrs. Lace's, for

instance. I give you my word that I had
forgotten all about it until last night ; but
the whole thing came back to my mind
then, and — and other circumstances as
well. And my wife, who is very angry
with me — naturally perhaps ; I'm quite
aware that I treated her brutally in behaving
as I did — my wife absolutely refuses to
answer a single question upon the subject;'

Thus the true object of Sir Christopher's
visit and apology became apparent. He
had, no doubt, passed through a painful
domestic scene ; he had been vanquished ;
he had been tortured into the bargain ;
and he was now reduced to the dismal
expedient of appealing to his supposed
rival for the removal of his misgivings.
Walter's respect for the man was not
increased by this discovery ; but then he
had not had much respect for him before,
and he thought that, for more reasons than
one, it would be as well to relieve him by a
frank narration of facts. Therefore he said —

Perhaps Lady Shearman may have

thought that it wouldn't be quite fair upon
me to tell you that I proposed to her last
summer, and that she refused me ; but
I don't mind your knowing it, if it will
make you feel more comfortable."

"Refused you, did she?" cried Sir
Christopher eagerly.

'' Without the smallest hesitation. And
as I am being so candid, I'll go a step
farther and confess that I'm very glad she
did refuse me. I don't, of course, mean
that as any disparagement of her; only
I am convinced now that she and I could
never have hit it off together."

If you come to that," observed Sir
Christopher gloomily, " it doesn't look as
if she and I were likely to hit it off particularly
well."

That was a question ujDon the consideration
of which Walter was not at all
desirous of entering.

I merely mentioned it," said he,
because I thought it might help to set
your mind at rest''

Oh — well, thank you ; it's very good
of you, I'm sure, Sinclair, and I'm sincerely
obliged to you for being so open with me.
But women, sou know, are nothing if not
contradictory. If she thought you were
glad that you had been refused, depend
upon it she would set to work at once and
try with all her might to bring you down
on your knees again."

"I hope you are doing Ladj^ Shearman
an injustice," answered Walter, smiling ;
but anyhow I can promise you that her
efforts, if she thought it worth while to
make any, wouldn't have the ghost of a
chance of success."

"Hem! you're very sure of yourself,"
grunted Sir Christopher, who rather
resented the implication that his wife's
charms could be so easily resisted.

"Oh yes, Tm sure of myself; why
shouldn't I be ? No doubt you would be
just as confident in the case of any other
lady. Take Miss Shaft, for example.
You won't deny that Miss Shaft is exceptionally

beautiful and charming ; but I
don't suppose lie could bring you down on
your knees, could she ? "

There's no great fear that she'll try."
Well," returned Walter, beginning to
lose patience a little, " perhaps there isn't
much fear that Lady Shearman will try
to subjugate me either. I don't know
what more I can say. The simple truth
is that of all women living she is the last
who could ever be dangerous to me in that
way. After what I have told you, I should
think you would be able to understand
that much."

Meanwhile, the lady who was thus
being spoken of in a way which it must be
admitted that few ladies would altogether
like, was indignantly complaining of her
wrongs to j\Iiss Shaft. No sooner had
Sir Christopher left the hotel than Madge
slipped downstairs, and, having ascertained
that her friend was alone, burst
into Norma's sitting-room with an air of
outraged innocence, to which the traces

of recent tears upon her countenance lent
additional pathos.

Now, Norma," she exclaimed, " you
will allow, I hope, that my life isn't a very
pleasant one ! Now you have seen what
Christopher can be when he is put out, and
you have seen how very little it takes to
put him out. And the horrid part of it is
that he doesn't seem to care who sees him
or hears him. I thought I should have
died of shame last night. As for Lady
Spencer, I shall never dare to look her in
the face again. I don't so much mind
about you, because I know how you must
have felt for me." And here Madge put
her arms round her friend's neck, while
her tears began to flow afresh.

But Norma had resolved to be very
stern. "It seems to me, Madge," said she,
'' that you brought it all upon yourself."

Then it was pretty to see how Madge's
eyes grew round with wonder, and with
what a look of sorrowful reproach the
corners of her mouth drooped.

Oh, Norma ! " lie ejaculated.

Yes," repeated the pitiless Astoria, " I
certainly think so ; and though I wish Sir
Christopher had not made things so disagreeable
for us all, I can't say I am sorry
that he made them disagreeable for you.
Why did you deliberately do what was
certain to vex him ? "'

Madge sank down upon a chair and
folded her hands resignedly. "I thought,"
she observed in a low voice, " that I had
one friend — just one — left in the world ;
but it seems that I was mistaken. After
all, I am not much surprised, though I am
sorry. I suppose it is my fault that the
Coliseum hasn't been fitted with the electric
light yet, and that consequently it is
possible for people who are at one end of it
to lose sight for a few minutes of people
who are at the other. As a matter of fact,
what I ' deliberately ' did was to bolt off to
the carriage the moment that I realized the
probability of Christopher's vexation. But
of course neither he nor you will give me
credit for that."

I don't blame you for having lost us,"
answered Norma ; " but I do think it was
very foolish and very needless to walk
away with Lord Walter as you did. Sir
Christopher may be more jealous than other
men ; but anybody might be excused for
disliking a proceeding of that kind."

Madge laughed rather disagreeably. ^' I
wonder," said she, " whether you would
think me entitled to dislike your walking
away with Christopher as you did ; I
wonder whether it ever occurs to you that
what is sauce for the goose may be sauce
for the gander. If it is such a very reprehensible
thing to talk to Lord Walter for a
short time while somebody else is talking
to my husband, what must it be to spend
hours and hours in his studio and to act as
an unpaid model for him ! It would be
useless for me to try and convince you that
I am not a flirt ; but at least I have the
small merit of not being a humbug."

It was perhaps as well that, before
Norma could make any reply, Mr. Grey's

card was brought in, and was speedily
followed by Mr. Grey himself; for assuredly
these two ladies had never been nearer
quarrelling than they were then. As it
was, they composed their countenances,
while the sight of a smart-looking young
man caused one of them to forget her wrath
at once.

Mr. Grey had come to say that the
Marchesa Somebody had given him her
box at the opera for that evening and to
beg Mr. and Miss Shaft to accept places
in it. ''I don't know much about music
myself," he confessed, '^ but I believe the
Barrier is considered to be rather good.
By Yerdi or one of those Johnnies, isn't
it?"

If that is all you know about it''
answered Norma, laughing, " I shouldn't
advise you to go. The music of the
Johnny who wrote the opera probably
wouldn't please you."

Oh, I tell you frankly that I shouldn't
think of going for the pleasure of hearing

the music ; but I would go a very long-way
for the pleasure of having your company,
Miss Shaft." And Mr. Grey followed
up this flattering assurance with one
of those glances which he had on many
occasions found to be effective.

To aim at one bird and bring down
another is an accident which may happen
to the best of shots ; and under such circumstances
experienced sportsmen accept
the gift of heaven without losing their
presence of mind. Mr. Grey had plenty
of experience. When, therefore, his eyes
somehow failed to encounter Miss Shaft's,
but met those of a very pretty little
woman, who smiled slightly, he showed
himself equal to the occasion. He had
just been introduced to Lady Shearman, and
he now thought it would be quite pleasant
to become better acquainted with her.

I wonder whether you would care to
come?" he hazarded. " It's a huge box ; so
that if there's anybody else — I mean, if
you're not alone here "

'' I have a husband," said Madge
entirely. " I'm afraid he wouldn't consent
to my going anywhere without
him."

'' Oh ! " answered Mr. G-rey, who seemed
to think that this was rather a pity.
'' Well, then, by all means bring him. And
3'ou and your father will come, won't you.
Miss Shaft ? "

Norma assented, not unwillingly. She
may have thought that, since it was poor
Sir Christopher's manifest destiny to be
always jealous of somebody, Mr. Grey
would be a rather safer person for him to
be jealous of than Walter Sinclair.

And indeed there can be no doubt that
if Sir Christopher had seen and heard what
took place in the next quarter of an hour he
would have been an angry man. For Lady
Shearman and Mr. Grey got on so well
together and with such remarkable rapidity
that in a very few minutes they were upon
the footing of old friends. Indeed, they
both said that they felt like old friends,

because it turned out that they had a
certain number of common acquaintances.
And then Lady Shearman was graciously
pleased to admire the very artistic little
arrangement of Parma violets and lilies of
the valley Which Mr. Grey wore in his
button-hole, and was further graciously
pleased to accept it when he offered it to
her ; after which there was a lively interchange
of words and looks, by which
probably neither of them meant any harm
at all. It was their nature to behave like
that, and they couldn't express themselves
in any other fashion. Such, at least, was
Norma's charitable verdict upon them.
At the same time, she could not quite
approve of the remarks which Madge
thought fit to utter after the young diplomatist's
departure.

"When Mr. Grey entered this room,"
observed that vivacious lady triumphantly,
'* he was an admirer of yours, my dear ; I
flatter myself that he left it as an admirer
of mine. It takes some skill to brins: about

these rapid transformations, tliougli I sait
as shouldn't."

She had completely recovered both her
temper and her spirits. 'did I say anything
disagreeable to you just now, my
dear old Norma ? " she asked. " You said
some very disagreeable things to me, I
know. But never mind, I'll forgive and
forget."

Norma gladly accepted these handsome
conditions of peace, but avoided responding
in similar terms. She could not, and did
not, forget Madge's accusation. It troubled
her throughout the remainder of the day,
and she had not got rid of it in the evening-when
she and her father repaired to the
theatre, where Mr. Grey was waiting to
receive them, and where they were soon
joined by the Sherman. Had it been
an utterly unfounded accusation she could
have dismissed it from her mind without so
much difficulty ; but the unfortunate truth
was that she had given grounds for it.
She had spent a great many hours in Lord

Walter's studio ; she had acted as his

model ; and if she had never dreamt of

flirting with him, that was a fact of which

no one but herself could be expected to feel

convinced. She could only resolve to see

as little as possible of Lord Walter for the

future.

In the mean time Sir Christopher, who

had stationed himself behind her elbow,

was repeating to her much the same

apology that he had offered to Lord Walter

earlier in the day. This time, however, it

was couched in even more humble terms ;

and indeed there could be no question but

that the poor man was very much ashamed

of himself. He seemed anxious to beg

everybody's pardon all round ; he would

not drop the subject, although both Mr.

Shaft and Norma politely gave him to

understand that they had heard more than

enough of it ; and the abject deference with

which he addressed his wife (who ignored

him absolutely) was most pathetic.

It was not until after the second act that
VOL. II. 37

the impossibility of expelling nature with
a pitchfork was exemplified. By that time
Sir Christopher had discovered that Madge
and Mr. Grey had a great deal to say to
one another, and that they were saying it
in a whisper — which was abominable. He
frowned, he fidgeted, he attempted to strike
into their conversation and was ignominiously
repulsed. Then he had a brief
struggle with himself; and then, as was
inevitable, the weaker side of him yielded
to the stronger. However, he made no
scene. All he did was to mutter some bad
words, which nobody but Norma heard, to
stuff his hands deep into his pockets, and
to march out of the box. He was absent for
the best part of half an hour ; and when he
returned it was only too evident to his
neighbour that he had spent that half-hour
in refreshing himself His eyes were
bright, his cheeks were flushed ; there was
a perceptible thickness in his utterance ashe
said to her defiantly —

Well, Miss Shaft, I have to thank you

for giving me another pleasant evening.
Jolly place, Rome — I shall always keep an
agreeable recollection of it."

If you go on like this you will spoil all
my recollections of it," answered Norma
desperately. " Don't you see," she added
for it seemed to her best not to affect
any misunderstanding of his change of
humour — '' that you drive Madge to provoke
you by your unreasonableness ? You
are furious with her now because you think
she is flirting with Mr. Grey ; but "

Think ! — there isn't much room for
thinking about it. Come, Miss Shaft,
don't you knoiv that she is flirting with
him ? "

No, I don't know it ; but if she is, that
may be only because, as I say, you drive
her to provoke you. You yourself admit
that you were unjust to her last night."

** Very well," returned Sir Christopher,
with a short laugh ; " then I'm not unjust
to her to-night — so we're quits. Oh, you
needn't be alarmed ; I shan't make a fool of

myself again. But one thing I can promise
you, and that is that she shan't make a fool
of me."

It was upon this emphatic declaration
that the curtain fell, and if, as appeared
probable, a domestic drama succeeded that
which had been enacted upon the stage,
Norma was not privileged to witness it.
The Sherman went away at once, and
Mr. Grey, to whom it may have occurred
that he had been devoting himself somewhat
too exclusively to one of his guests,
was very attentive in helping Norma on
with her wraps and conducting her to her
carriage.

'' Your friend. Lady Shearman," he remarked
airily, " is a nice, chatty little
woman ; but she seems to be affected with
a terrible husband. Am I wronging him,
or didn't he smell rather strong of bad
brandy towards the end of the evening ? "

Norma made no reply ; but Mr. Shaft
burst out laughing. " Shearman is a Bluebeard,"
he explained. '' A very good

fellow ; only you mustn't be civil to his
wife unless you want to have the house
pulled down about your ears. Don't do it
again, my dear Grey ; I wanted to warn
you before, only I couldn't get a chance.
If you had seen him last night at the
Coliseum ! — however, it isn't fair to telltales.
But it isn't fair to make a man
drown his sorrows in bad brandy either —
remember that."

CHAPTER XY.

Made MEDITATES VENGEANCE.

Sir Christopher, on leaving the theatre,
lighted a cigar, threw himself down in
the carriage beside his wife and maintained
an unbroken silence as they clattered
through the deserted streets. Madge, for her
part, did not address a word to him. She
had sent him to Coventry as a punishment
for his conduct on the previous evening
and intended to keep him there for sometime
to come. She flattered herself that
she had at last found out how to manage
this savage and was resolved that she
would not again fall into the mistake of
forgiving him too readily. Repentance is
all very well, but before it can be proved
genuine and accepted as such, it must be

evidenced by amendment. Sir Christopher,
she thought, should now have ample opportunity
of showing whether he proposed to
amend his ways or not. And, as a little
wholesome discipline to begin with, her
encouragement of the attentions of Mr.
Grey would doubtless prove to have been
useful. She had not failed to notice Sir
Christopher's abrupt exit, and the anxious
looks with which Norma had greeted him
on his return ; she understood perfectly
well that he had with difficulty restrained
himself from treating the company to
another exhibition of fury ; and it was her
opinion that if he were made to restrain
himself in this way pretty constantly, self-restraint
might become a second nature to
him. Then perhaps he might prove endurable
as a lifelong companion.

As for herself, she had greatly enjoyed
her evening. Like Mr. Grey, she did not
know very much about music, but fully
appreciated the charms of congenial society;
and if there was one thing more than

another that she loved, it was to be addressed
in that language of unmeaning
compliment which young men of the type
of Mr. G-rey are persuaded (and possibly
they are not so very far wrong) that all
women love. Happy are those who can
combine the fulfilment of a high mission
with personal gratification ! Madge saw
her way to having a good deal of fun while
doing her husband the service of radically
reforming him ; consequently she reached
the Hotel Bristol in a contented frame of
mind, little suspecting what a sad surprise
and disappointment awaited her.

In the obscurity of the carriage her
husband's features had, of course, not been
visible, and she had taken it for granted
that they still wore the hangdog and crestfallen
expression which had characterized
them throughout the day ; but, lo and
behold ! the face of Sir Christopher, when
illumined by the light of a moderator lamp,
was no longer that of a whipped hound,
but that of a stern and incensed master.

Under the circumstances, a strategic movement
of retreat seemed advisable. However,
there is no retreating through a door
against which a thickset man has placed
his back, and Madge had to give up her
rapidly formed design of locking herself
into her bedroom.

Not so fast, if you please," said Sir
Christopher grimly. '' Be so good as to
sit down for a few minutes. You and I
are going to come to a clear understanding
this time, my lady."

I thought we had done so," returned
Madge coldly. " You made me clearly
understand last night that you were
scarcely to be treated as a responsible
being, and when you apologized this
morning I clearly understood that your
apology was worth nothing. I am too
tired to go through it all again."

"That's a pity," remarked Sir Christopher,
" because you've got to go through
it again — or something like it. I apologized
to you this morning because I lost my

temper last night and behaved rudely to
you and your friends. That's all right : I
don't want to retract a word of my apology,
and I know now that I was unjust as well
as uncivil. But it don't follow because I
was wrong once that I'm to be wrong
always ; and what I have to tell you now,
once for all, is that I won't have you going
on as you did at the theatre this evening
with that man Grey."

Madge made a disdainful grimace. " Now
that you have relieved your feelings," said
she, " perhaps you will allow me to pass.
I don't choose to answer you."

I haven't asked you any questions that
I know of," returned Sir Christopher, without
stirring. " But I'll ask you one now,
and I expect you'll reply. Has it ever
struck you that these men whom you take
for admirers of your beauty laugh at you
behind your back ? "

Madge would have given a good deal to
be able to falsify Sir Christopher's prediction
by holding her tongue ; but the painful

suspicion wliicli his words suggested was
too much for her. " No," she answered,
"' I can't say that it has. I am afraid it is
very likely indeed that they may laugh at
you, though."

Luckily, I don't care two straws
whether they laugh at me or not. But
I care more for your reputation than you
do ; and that's why I tell you that I mean
to put a stop to one of your little ways of
amusing yourself. I grant you that it
hurts me to see you flirting with other
men, and you may make the most of that
admission, but you are very much mistaken
if you fancy that they enjoy being flirted
with against their will."

*' To begin with, I haven't flirted with
anybody," Madge declared, becoming
angry. " As for whether the men of
whom you are so absurdly jealous enjoy
talking to me, I confess that I am vain
enough to think they do."

You are, eh ? I thought you were.
Well, I don't know much about Mr. Grey ,

but I can answer for it that Sinclair
doesn't enjoy talking to you."

This was just what Madge had been
afraid that she was going to hear. " You
have actually been to see him, then ? " she
exclaimed. " How undignified, and how
ridiculous ! Did you go to challenge him
to mortal combat ? "

No," answered Sir Christopher, " I
didn't. I went to beg his pardon, because
I thought I had spoken unjustifiably to him
the night before. And he took that opportunity
of informing me that it was anything
but a pleasure to him to be monopolized
by you."

Madge was deeply mortified. " If he
did say so," she returned rather unadvisedly,
and if he was telling the truth, his taste
has very much changed of late."

So I understood from him. He told
me that he had once offered to marry you
and that you had rejected him. Also that
he was now sincerely glad to have been
rejected."

He cannot possibly be more glad than
I am. A man who would say such a

thing as that However, it is nothing

to me what he says. To-morrow morning,
I suppose, you'll call upon Mr. Grey and ask
him whether he would have married me if
I had been free."

No, I shan't take that trouble ; you
won't see very much more of Mr. Grey, I
expect. But you may see just as much as
you like, or as much as he'll let you, of
Sinclair. If you get a nasty snub from
him for your pains, you'll only have yourself
to thank. I've warned you."

Madge, when she was very angry, could
never help crying. She began to cry
now ; and Sir Christopher, who had
hitherto had all the best of the encounter,
at once struck his colours before the tears
of the woman whom he loved and bullied.
As his custom was, he heaped injurious
epithets upon himself and implored her to
forgive his cruelty ; but she was far too
much enraged to listen to him.

Let me go ! " she sobbed. " All I ask
of you is to get out of my sight. I wish
I had never seen you at all ! And I wish
oh, how I wish ! — that I was never
going to see you again ! "

So, after a few minutes, she effected her
escape, and Sir Christopher gloomily rang
the bell for whisky.

The next morning Madge breakfasted in
solitude, her husband having gone out at
an early hour and having left a message to
the effect that he would probably not be
back before dinner-time. Whither he had
betaken himself and his sorrows she neither
knew nor cared ; he was out of the way at
all events, and that was the main thing.
Possibly his temper, which he lost and
recovered with such rapidity, might take a
turn for the better during those hours of
absence. For her own part, though she
was still very angry, there was some one
with whom she was a great deal more
displeased than she was with Sir Christopher,
and if she could only have seen her

way to pay Walter Sinclair out for the
humiliation which he had so wantonly inflicted
upon her, it is certain that he would
have met with scant mercy at her hands.

While she was revolving chaotic schemes
of vengeance in her mind (which was nota
very clear or powerful one), the post
came in, bringing her a few letters. The
last of these which she chanced to peruse
proved to be the most interesting. It had
a deep black border, it was written in a
careful round hand, and ran as follows : —

Shaft Arms, Brampton,
"3rd April.

"My Lady,

I have the regret to inform you
that my niece Elizabeth Walter succumbed
on Tuesday last to decease of both lungs
which Event, though long foreseen, have
truly grieved her Aunt and Myself I
take this Liberty for to write to you My
Lady because of your great Kindness and
condescension to my niece and she wish

me to thank you for all you done for her.
Likewise I was to say as what she told you
was best go no further in her opinion, but
your Ladyship was to please do what you
think fit. Has for me My Lady I have
never ask no questions nor yet felt no
curiosity, being sure as a respectable girl
would not have disgraced her Family, and
about the money as she left I-understand
from the Lawyers that there will be no
trouble, therefore I say to my Wife if the
Gentleman was married under a name
which was not his own what matter so
long' as the marriage was Legal? And I
would humbly beg of your Ladyship to let
the matter rest, which no good is done by
stirring up gossip and the name of Walter
will be engraved as soon as possible upon
a very handsome Headstone.

Asking pardon for the Liberty of
writing and hoping as Sir Christopher
have now quite recover his Health, I am

Your Ladyship's obedient servant,
Joseph Green."

So there was an end of Elizabeth,
Marchioness of Loddondale ; and the handsome
headstone that was to mark her
grave would bear no coronet — unless
indeed the widower should think proper
so to embellish it. It did not seem likely
that he would do that, and probably the
prudent Mr. Green was right in suggesting
that no tardy revelations should be made
as to the identity of the so-called Mrs.
Walter. Nevertheless, Madge had already
begun to realize confusedly that she held a
weapon which might be turned to account,
not indeed against Lord Loddondale, but
against another and a greater offender. It
was only in a confused way that she
admitted this thought, because she was a
little bit frightened of it and disinclined to
face it. However, after a time she took it
out into the open air with her, and, strolling
up to the Indian, seated herself upon
a stone bench, with her head in the shade
and her feet in the sun, gazing at the
glittering city beneath her, and smiling

VOL. II. 38

upon the nurses and children who passed
and repassed. She was not a bad sort of
woman ; certainly she was not a cruel one.
In common with the generality of mortals,
she liked her friends pretty well and did
not object to be avenged upon her enemies
and had a far stronger affection for herself
than for all the rest of the world put together.
As for committing anything in the
nature of a crime, she would have shrunk
back appalled from the bare idea. At the
same time, she wanted to make Norma
Shaft think that Lord Walter had been
clandestinely married and had deserted his
wife ; and by some means or other she had
to convince herself that such a course of
action was justifiable.

This was less difficult than may at first
sight appear, because of course she did not
put the case before herself in that crude
way. To arrive at the conclusion that
Lord Walter had a bad heart was simple
enough : we all think that those who treat
us with contempt have bad hearts. That

point being established, it naturally followed
that any one who could prevent Norma
Shaft from marrying this heartless man
would do her a great service. But here
Lady Shearman's conscience intervened
and became troublesome. It was not much
of a conscience ; for, although it reminded
her that to tell lies is wicked, it was
unable to persuade her of the wickedness
of pious frauds.

I shall be careful to say nothing but
the strict truth, if I speak to Norma upon
the subject at all," Madge wound up the
debate by declaring virtuously. " But I
am not certain that I shall speak to her
about it at all."

She was still uncertain when she rose,
and, leaving the gardens, dawdled down
the Via Sistina on her way towards home.
There was a certain amount of risk in
what she proposed to do, and it seemed a
pity to incur it needlessly. Norma might
possibly refuse Lord Walter : possibly, too,
he might never ask her to be his wife. In

any case, there would be no harm in
waiting a while. Musing thus, she passed
before the door of the house which, as
she knew, was inhabited by the man with
the bad heart ; and it so chanced that
while she was pensively contemplating
that door, it was suddenly thrown open
by a black-eyed youth, who, when he
noticed that he had attracted the attention
of an English lady, touched his
cap and said politely, " Burn giorno,
Signora."

Madge's Italian was of an elementary
description ; but for the purpose of asking
a few simple questions, and making a few
simple statements, it served her well
enough. She ascertained from the boy
that he was Lord Walter's servant; also
that his name was Beppo ; furthermore
that he was on his way to the Hotel
Bristol with a note for Miss Shaft. In
return she informed him that she was a
friend both of Lord Walter and of the
lady to whom the note was addressed.

thereby eliciting a panegyric upon Norma
which was quite a model of unstudied
eloquence.

Now, Madge had a sincere love and
admiration for her friend, and that Norma
should be described as a saint and an
angel from heaven would not, under
ordinary circumstances, have seemed to
her so very hyperbolical ; but she was
still smarting under a recent rebuke
administered to her, and that made hera
shade less willing than usual to listen
to a recital of Miss Shaft's acts of benevolence.


Was it Miss Shaft who got you your
situation as servant to Lord Walter Sinclair
? " she inquired.

Beppo grinned. " Eh ! not precisely.
Milord engaged me, without asking any
questions, one day when he stopped to
speak to the mother in the street. He is
very good, milord ; but one must tell the
truth. I think he only did it to give
pleasure to the Signorina." And Beppo,

as he made this observation, looked extremely
knowing.

Madge questioned him a little further,
and found him as communicative as could
be desired. Oh yes ; there would be a
wedding before the summer. It was what
everybody expected and hoped for. Milord
had executed a magnificent statue of the
Signorina, and she had been many times —
a great many times — to the studio. She
had always been accompanied by his ait,
a very great lady and enormously rich.
No doubt it was all arranged and approved
of by the families. Was it true
that in England the family had nothing
to say to alliances, and that nobles
married as they pleased, just like common
people ?

No," answered Madge gravely ; " that
is only partly true. In England a nobleman
generally marries to please himself;
but his wife generally marries him to
please her family."

Beppo, after reflecting for a moment,

was of opinion that Miss Shaft would not
be influenced in that way. He was much
interested and puzzled on being informed
that Lord Walter, though the son of a
marquis, was not a nobleman, and did not
understand how that could be, in spite of
the long explanation with which he was
favoured.

The truth was that Madge only detained
him because she could not make up her
mind whether she should or should not
yield to a strong temptation which had
taken possession of her. It was a temptation
of a very ignoble kind, and she
did well to be ashamed of it. Besides,
even if she could part with her self-respect
so far as to intercept Lord Walter's
note, what would be the good ? It was
very unlikely that it contained an offer of
marriage.

Nevertheless, the sight of the closed
envelope irritated her nerves : she wanted
to have the first word. Finally, she
decided upon a compromise.

** I am staying at the Hotel Bristol," she
said to Beppo. " If you like, I will do
your commission for you."

But Beppo, with many thanks, declined
this kind offer. He could not think of
putting the Signorina to so much trouble.
Moreover, what had he to do ? It was the
easiest place in the world. There was the
studio to be swept in the morning, and
there were a few visitors to be admitted in
the course of the day, and after that
nothing at all ! It was enough to make
one ashamed of taking one's wages. The
end of it was that he accompanied her as
far as the door of the hotel and then
delivered up the note to her.

Well, it was certain that, after that, it
must be taken to its destination. If Norma
failed to receive it, inquiries would be
made and detection would follow as a
matter of course. Upon thinking it over,
Madge was sure that she had never really
meant to destroy a note addressed to
another person, still less that she had contemplated

perusing it. But for all that,
she took it up to her sitting-room with her,
and remained a long time gazing at it
before she rang the bell to inquire whether
Miss Shaft was at home.

END OF VOL. II.

fKIN'lEU UV WU.LrAM CLOWES AND SONS, Limited,

LONDON AND Eccles. C, C &" Co

W. E. NOEEIS,

AUTHOR OF
Major AND MINOR," "MY FRIEND JIM," "THE ROGUE," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:

RICHARD BE NT LEY AND HON

IJtibltsjjfrs in ©rotnarg to |t?cr fHajfstg tfjc quern.
1889.

(All rights reserved.)

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/missshafto03norr

CONTENTS OF VOL. 111.

Charter Page

I. Madge is strictly Truthful . 1

II. Norma's Patience is tried . 20

III. A Waiting Game . . 39

IV. Farewell . . . 58

V. At the Lido . . . 78

VI. Lord Loddondale reappears . 99

VII. Mr. Shaft finds a Substitute . 117

VIII. Norma makes a Great Deal of Money 137

IX.* Lord Loddondale's Chance . 158

X. "To N. and M." . . "7

XI. The Poet speaks . . 195

XII. Rebus in Artois . . 214

XIII. Baron Lammergeier's Generosity . 234

XI Y. Mr. Shaft enjoys himself . 254

XV. A "Melancholy Event" 272

XVI. Mr. Shaft is not contradicted 293

XVII. Timely Hospitality . . 308

XVIII. Norma begs Pardon . . 326

CHAPTER I.

Made ]S STRICTLY TRUTHFUL.

Mr. Shaft was in one of his bad humours
that morning. Norma suspected it as soon
as he took his place at the breakfast table,
and knew it when he began to abuse the
coffee and the omelette and the bread and
the hotel and everybody and everything
connected therewith, including the Eternal
City itself. Also she knew very well what
was the matter. Latterly it had always
been the arrival of London letters that had
upset Mr. Shaft ; and that he had incurred
some further losses was just as evident
vol. m. 39

from his face as if he had announced the
fact. Presently he did announce it ; for it
was almost an impossibility to him to suffer
in silence.

Nobody ever had such luck as I have !
Fancy a telegram arriving just half an
hour too late ! — which entailed a delay of
a whole day and a consequent difference to
my pocket of — well, a very considerable
difference. This comes of being in Italy
when one ought to be in London ! "

We can easily return to London,"
observed Norma, who, however, was not
eager to return in order to afford the
facilities hinted at.

Oh, we can shut the stable-door after
the horse has been stolen, no doubt. Now,
my dear girl, you needn't look at me in
that solemn and reproachful way. I am
not an absolute idiot, and I have no intention
of ending my days in the workhouse ;
but it is rather provoking to drop a lot of
money simply through the carelessness of
these telegraph people."

Is it worth while to leave one's self at
their mercy ? " hazarded Norma.

Mr. Shaft swallowed his cup of tea and
his impatience. " When you are a little
older and have had a little more experience,
Norma," answered he, " you will understand
that we are all inevitably at the
mercy of chance. A man who begins by
demanding perfect safety ends by becoming
a hypochondriac. Am I to sit indoors all
day because, if I go out, I may be run over
in the street ? Am I never to travel by
rail because railway accidents occur pretty
frequently ? The most prudent of human
beings can't do more than take reasonable
precautions."

Norma might have replied that that was
all she wished her father to do, but she was
aware that no such expression of her wishes
would influence him, though it would
certainly irritate him ; so she said nothing
at all.

Possibly he was not altogether ungrateful
to her for her forbearance, for, after a

long pause, he resumed : " I do run risks ;
you're quite right about that, and I daresay
you think it's a mistake to run risks.
But nothing venture, nothing have. I
can't explain everything to you, and you
wouldn't understand me if I did ; only I
may tell you that, if the worst comes to the
worst, I have always a good round sum
invested in really first-class securities.
Lammergeier has very kindly seen to that
for me."

Some people say that Baron Hammers
isn't to be implicitly trusted," remarked
Norma.

"Oh, I know that's your idea. It isn't
mine, and perhaps you'll concede that I
know just a little bit more about him than
you do. Anyway his credit stands tolerably
high at present."

Mr. Shaft rose and walked slowly to
the window, where he stood for sometime,
apparently lost in thought. When
he turned round it was to say with a
sigh —

Do you know, Norma, I often wish you
were married."

Because you want to get rid of me ? "

Mr. Shaft laughed as he stepped back
to her side and pinched her ear. His
ill-humour seldom lasted long. " No, you
disagreeable and perverse young woman,"
he answered ; " I don't want to get rid of
you, though you do sometimes manage to
scold me pretty severely without opening
your lips. No ; it will be a bad day forme
when I lose you. But everything is
uncertain ; life is uncertain. How do I
know when I may die and leave you all
alone in the world ? And so I indulge in
dreams occasionally, though I take care to
keep my eyes open all the time. Unless
they have very much deceived me, there's
somebody here who wouldn't be unwilling
to take charge of you permanently,
Norma."

Norma smiled and shook her head. " I
don't know of any such person," she
declared ; " and certainly I don't know of

>

any one, except you, by whom I should
care to be taken charge of."

Mr. Shaft did not appear to attach much
importance to this disclaimer. He laughed
again and pursued his own train of thought.
It wouldn't be exactly a grand match —
although, Loddondale being a bachelor and
likely to remain one, there would be certain
possibilities. What I think more of is
that Sinclair is really a good, steady
fellow ; and as far as money goes, why, as
I tell you, I have a good round sum in
hand, the greater part of which I would
make over to you at once. Besides I
honestly believe that you will be rich some
day. Yes," he added, his face flushing a
little ; " I honestly do believe that."

But Lord Walter is not thinking of
such a thing ; nor am I," said Norma
quietly.

Nevertheless, she thought, and indeed
could not help thinking, a good deal about
it after her father had left her. She was
perhaps as little conscious of her personal

charms as any woman who is undeniably
beautiful can be. She had never, to her
knowledge, been much admired, nor had
she coveted admiration, her ambitions and
tastes not lying in that direction. At the
same time, she was aware that she had
classical features and a well-proportioned
figure, which advantages were, no doubt,
of a nature to attract the artistic eye. It
might be that Lord Walter's artistic eye
had been pleased by them. This notion,
for some reason or other, was excessively
disagreeable to her. So disagreeable was
it, in fact, that she felt bound to ask
herself why it should be. Well, the answer
came readily enough. Only a few months
back, Lord Walter had been desperately in
love with some one else ; and as she liked
him and wanted to think well of him, she
was naturally unwilling to believe that his
affection could be so lightly bestowed and
withdrawn. Admitting that he had been
deceived in Madge and that he was entitled
to forget her, it still did not follow that he

was entitled at once to set up another idol
on her vacant pedestal. Moreover, she
was vexed by the extraordinary conspiracy
into which everybody seemed to have
entered to marry her to a man whom she
had never wished to treat otherwise than
as a friend. She was very sorry now that
she had consented, against her better
judgment, to give him the sittings that
he had asked for, and she w T as a little
resentful against him for having asked for
them. He might have guessed that he
was exposing her to accusations such as
that which Madge had formulated. That
accusation distressed her a great deal more
than Madge would have understood or
thought possible, and she was still brooding
over it when a waiter came in to ask
whether she would receive Lady Shear-man.


Oh yes," she answered, with a sigh ;
for in truth she was by no means disposed
to receive Lady Shearman at that moment.

It was not Madge's custom to use so

much ceremony before looking in upon her
friend ; but this, it seemed, was to be quite
a ceremonious visit. She wore so grave a
countenance when she was announced, and
swept into the room with such a comical
air of quiet dignity, that Norma asked her
laughingly what was the matter.

Have I incurred your displeasure in
any way, or have you come to announce
some portentous piece of bad news ? "

I think," observed Madge in mildly
reproachful accents, u that it is generally
I who incur your displeasure nowadays, is
it not ? However, one ends by becoming
hardened, and after the daily domestic
experiences that I have to go through, a
little extra abuse doesn't seem to matter
much."

I hope you haven't been quarrelling
with your husband again," said Norma.

Madge shrugged her shoulders. " I
never quarrel with him," she declared.
u He made an absurd scene last night
when we got back from the theatre, and

to-day he has gone off in the sulks — which
is at least better than staying at home and
scolding. I need hardly tell you that he
is now in a rage with poor Mr. Grey. It
seems that I flirted with Mr. Grey yesterday."


It really did seem a little like it, you
know," said Norma, smiling.

Oh, of course ! To you and Christopher
it always does seem like it. It
would seem like it if I shook hands with
the Archbishop of Canterbury and offered
to subscribe to the Church House Fund."

Well, it might," confessed Norma
good-humouredly. " Everything depends
upon the way in which things are done."

Really ? So that I might even go to
the length of posturing as a model to a
sculptor, if I only knew how to do it ina
proper way ? "

"I won't quite say that. You see,
Madge, you are a married woman now."

Oh, it is being married that makes the
difference ? Then, if either you or Lord

Walter had been married, it wouldn't have
been proper for you to behave as you have
been doing, I suppose. Ah, well ! it's a
queer world."

What do you mean ? " asked Norma,
puzzled and not best pleased by the other's
manner. " I can see that you have come
here for some particular purpose. What
is it ?"

Madge seemed to hesitate. " I was
thinking," said she, " that I would tell
you — but perhaps, after all, I won't. It
might have been a duty to tell you; but
as matters have turned out, I dare say you
had better not know. I did come with a
purpose, though," she added, laughing, as
if she had suddenly remembered it. " I
met a youth at the door just now who
said he had been intrusted with a note for
you ; so I undertook to deliver it. Here
it is."

Thereupon she produced from her pocket
the note which she had been so sorely
tempted to tamper with, and handed it to

Norma, who glanced at it and laid it down
unopened.

A pause ensued, after which Madge
slowly got up and sighed. She wanted to
be pressed to make her revelation ; but
since she was not pressed, there was
nothing for it but a change of tactics.

"Norma, dear," she said suddenly, "do
you think that I cherish a grudge against
Lord Walter Sinclair ? "

I hope you don't," answered Norma.

That means that you think I do. Well,
you are right ; only it isn't for the reason
that you suppose. I told you long ago
that I didn't care a bit about him, and if
he has given up caring about me, so much
the better. But I should be very sorry —
very sorry indeed — if you became too fond
of him, Norma."

There is no fear of that," answered
Norma quietly.

Are you sure ? It seems to me that
you are a great friend of his, and that you
like him very much."

I do like him very much. I have
known him since he was a little boy, and
I have never heard anything about him
that was not to his credit'' replied Norma
warmly ; for she foresaw that she was
about to be told of something that was not
to Lord Walter's credit.

Madge shook her head solemnly. " You
haven't known him all the time, though,"
she remarked ; " and if you had, I don't
suppose you would have heard all that
there was to be said about him. Of course
you remember old Green, who keeps the
Shaft Arms. I wonder whether you
remember a niece of his who mysteriously
disappeared some years ago ? "

Bessie Green ? Yes ; I remember her
perfectly. What about her ? "

She is dead, that's all. I had a letter
this morning from her uncle, telling me
that it was all over. She came home a
few months ago in the last stage of consumption,
and I used to go and sit with
her sometimes " Madge paused for a

moment, and then added meaningly, " She
went by the name of Mrs. Walter."

Norma had turned a little pale. " Well ? "
she said.

I can't tell you anything more. As
you may imagine, there was a good deal
of talk and gossip about her, and it was
generally understood that she had been
married to some one above her in rank.
She gave herself out as a widow; but some
people — Mr. Morley, amongst others — were
convinced that her husband was still living,
and that his name was Lord Walter
Sinclair."

I don't wonder at their having thought
so," returned Norma composedly. " As
there was a mystery about her, and as she
called herself Walter, that was a natural
enough conjecture. But they were certainly
mistaken ; and the proof is that Lord
Walter asked you to many him last summer.
Whatever you may think about him, you
must know that he couldn't have done that
if he had had a wife living at the time."

Oh, she was living at the time, no
doubt ; but she was also dying at the time.
That is what shows him to be so heartless.
At least, I mean that it would show him
to be heartless, if the story were true ; but
of course I don't for a moment assert that
it is. I only repeat what I have heard."

It is not true," said Norma ; " I don't
believe a word of it."

Oh, it may be false from beginning to
end ; still, one would like to have some
proof."

Perhaps," said Norma, after considering
for a moment, " the simplest plan
would be to ask him."

But this was a plan the simplicity of
which did not at all commend itself to
Madge. She protested, with scandalized
exclamations. As if one could possibly do
such a thing as that ! What would he
think ? And what answer would he be
likely to make ? One could hardly suppose
that, if he had taken so much pains
to keep his secret during poor Bessie's

lifetime, he would let it out now that she
was dead and buried. Besides, what right
had Norma to question him ? " Of course
I don't know — if you have a right, that is
different."

Norma smiled. " I certainly have none,"
she replied tranquilly ; " only, if people
seriously believed this story, it would perhaps
be friendly to give him a chance of
undeceiving them. But now that I think
of it, I see how absurd it is. Mr. Green, who
has a keen eye to his own interests, would
have made claims long ago if there had been
the slightest ground for making any."

Madge shrugged her shoulders. " Mr.
Green may have found it to his interest
to hold his tongue," she observed ; " he has
not been a loser by his niece's marriage,
I understand."

However, she did not venture to say
much more, fearing lest she should be led
into telling some direct lie, with which
she might be charged hereafter, and guessing
that she had already made as complete

a success of her calumny as she could have
hoped for. That Norma should affect to
be incredulous was only what might have
been anticipated ; and, indeed, it seemed
best to conclude by associating herself with
that incredulity.

"It is only a conjecture. Probably we
shall never know the real truth about poor
Bessie, and perhaps I ought not to have
repeated all this. I can hardly believe
that he would have been so cold-blooded
although I certainly don't think that he
has much heart."

That, to tell the truth, was Nor ma's own
impression of him. She had never been
able quite to pardon the commonsense
view that he had taken of his love-affair
with Madge. " If she be not fair for me,
what care I how fair she be ? " is a refrain
which every disappointed lover is prone
to sing, and may be excused for singing ;
but then no one supposes that he really
means it. Lord Walter really had meant
it, and had acted so thoroughly in the

vol. in. 40

spirit of the sentiment that the woman
whom he had once adored had now become
simply a bore to him. And this he did
not hesitate to say. The note which he
had penned shortly after his interview
with Sir Christopher, and which Norma
read as soon as she was alone, set forthwith
more of emphasis than chivalry the
view that he now took of Lady Shearman's
character. In his eagerness to convince
Miss Shaft that he had been in no way
to blame for that unlucky scene at the
Coliseum, he went a good deal farther than
was necessary for his purpose. There are
certain imputations which a man must
bear, if people are stupid enough to cast
them upon him. Norma, when she had
read all that he had to say, tore the sheet
across with an impatient gesture, and
tossed the halves into the fire. She did
not like his sending her this elaborate
explanation ; and she liked still less the
terms in which it was couched. After all,
he owed her no explanations.

And then, although she told herself that
this romance about poor Bessie Green was
a palpable invention, she could not help
thinking that it would have been very like
Walter Sinclair to act as that unfortunate
woman's husband was said to have acted.
One could easily imagine how she would
have alienated him by her vulgarity, by
her bad temper, by this or that offence
which he would have considered unendurable,
and how he would have felt quite
justified in pensioning her off and bidding
her adieu, with an intimation that she was
not what he had taken her for.

This was very unfair ; but, alas ! who
doesn't have unfair thoughts at times ?
And who can listen to slander without
being in any degree influenced by it ?
We all think that we can ; and it may be
that a good many of us are really uninfluenced
by it, so far as conduct goes ; yet
it is to be feared that that man knew
something of his fellow-men who gave the
sinister advice — " Calumnies, calumnies ! il
en restore toujours quelquechose."

CHAPTER II.

norma's patience is tried.

Lady Spencer Sinclair had been a good
deal put out by the moonlit wrangle of
which she had been an unwilling witness.
She was accustomed, and had always been
accustomed, to a life free from jolts and
jars ; to listen to high words was as disagreeable
to her as it would have been to
look on at any painful or disgusting
sight, such as an accident or an operation,
and long use and wont had given her
an impression that it was her right to
be protected from such unpleasantness.
Therefore she was not only much incensed
against the vulgar and coarse Sir Christopher
and his silly little wife, but was

inclined to be displeased with Mr. Shaft
for having introduced her to such people,
and with her nephew for having got himself
into trouble, and even with Norma for
having known no better than to allow a
fracas to take place. One and all, they
dropped down to a low level in her esteem,
and for upwards of thirty-six hours she felt
as if she didn't wish to see any of them
again. But, at the end of that time, being
a good-natured woman, she forgave some
of them. She had become really fond of
Norma, for whom she had that sort of
wondering admiration that selfish persons
often have for those who are not selfish ;
and, having started by merely acquiescing
in her nephew's suit, was now extremely
anxious that he should be successful.
Besides, at the moment, she wanted somebody
to go out driving with her.

Accordingly, she betook herself to the
Hotel Bristol to pick up her young friend,
whom she thus unintentionally provided
with a further opportunity of displaying

unselfishness. For Norma was not at all
inclined to drive with Lady Spencer that
afternoon, being out of spirits and, as far
as it was possible to her to be so, out of
temper. However, she did not excuse herself
(for she was well aware that she could
not do that without giving offence), but
got ready at once and ran downstairs to
join the old lady, by whom she was
affectionately received.

Do you know," said Lady Spencer,
with charming candour, while they were
proceeding at a brisk pace towards the
Porta del Populo, " I was very nearly
washing my hands of the whole pack of
you yesterday — I was indeed ! Very
horrid of me, and very ungrateful, I admit ;
but if there is a thing that would make
me renounce those nearest and dearest tome,
it is the risk of being involved in a
brawl. I can stand a great deal of
chaperon duty ; I can stand being put on
sentry-go in a studio for hours together ;
and I can stand a limited amount of

scrambling among ruins in the dead of the
night ; but brawling I can not stand ! "

I don't think I am very fond of brawling
either," remarked Norma, laughing a
little.

Lady Spencer took her hand and patted
it. " My dear, I know that ; I'm only
making a humble confession. All the
same, I do hope and trust that I have seen
the last of those impossible Shearman
people. Was that exhibition a sample of
their customary way of going on ? "

Norma attempted some defence of Sir
Christopher. Of course he had forgotten
himself, but he had been very sorry for it
afterwards, and had begged everybody's
pardon. He was not a bad-hearted man,
though he was passionate and unreasonably
jealous. Perhaps, too, it might be
admitted that he had had some little
provocation.

Oh," returned Lady Spencer, "a savage
is always excusable for behaving like a
savage, I suppose ; only one doesn't want

to associate with those primitive types of
humanity. As for the provocation, I don't
deny it for a moment. Indeed, his wife
was quite as bad as he was, if not worse,
and if he had seen fit to castigate her upon
the spot, it is not I who should have called
the police. Why Walter allowed her to
inveigle him away from us like that I
can't imagine ; but I dare say he won't doit
again. Has he made his peace with you
yet?"

Made his peace with me ? " repeated
Norma, slightly irritated by the question.
I don't quite understand. We haven't
quarrelled that I know of."

Lady Spencer laughed. " I apologize ;
I ought to have asked whether he has
explained to you that Lady Shearman took
possession of him by main force."

Oh yes, he has done that," answered
Norma, laughing a little too ; " but I
think be might just as well have left it
undone. For one thing, it wasn't very
polite to poor Madge ; and for another, it

really doesn't concern me to know whether
he was willing to be taken possession of
or not."

Quite sure of that ? "

Lady Spencer turned her head and
looked her companion full in the eyes as
she put this query ; and it was without any
pretence of ignoring its significance that
Norma replied gravely, " Perfectly sure."

Well, if it is so, I'm sorry — very sorry.
I can't say that I have ever been particularly
sanguine ; still I hoped there was
a chance — and I'm not certain that I don't
hope so still. Speaking quite impartially,
I should think twice before rejecting
Walter, if I were a young woman. One
doesn't marry a man for his talents, nor
even perhaps for his good looks ; but an
excellent moral character is no such bad
thing in a husband, and he has the recommendation
of being devoted to you, heart
and soul. Added to which, he is one of
those quiet, undemonstrative people who
never change."

Is he ? " said Norma. " I don't think
that is quite the description that I should
have given of him. But whatever else
he may be, he is certainly not devoted tome
in the way that you mean, and I
sincerely hope he never will be. I wish
I had not consented to give him those
sittings. I would not have done it if I
had thought for a moment that they would
cause so much misunderstanding."

Lady Spencer's opinion of her nephew's
chances was not made any worse by this
declaration. He could not, of course, be
accepted before he had proposed, nor could
any girl very well have answered otherwise
than as Miss Shaft had done. She
laughed and answered, " There has been
no misunderstanding about the sittings.
I made myself responsible for them at the
outset, and I'll undertake to say that nobody
has misconstrued your good nature.
If misunderstandings have arisen out of
other circumstances, I'm not to blame for
that, and I shan't attempt to set them

right. Only I hope there's no harm in
ruy saying that I should very much like
you to be my niece."

She not unnaturally thought that Norma
had been offended by Walter's apparent
desertion of her for Lady Shearman at
the Coliseum, and she surmised that the
apology which her nephew had made had
not been very skilfully worded. As she
intended to give him a chance of atoning
for his awkwardness no later than that
very afternoon, she judged it best for the
present to let the subject drop.

Is it the case that Lady Shearman is a
sister of Lady Huddersfield's ? " she asked.

Norma replied that it was.

Ah, that accounts for her silliness then.
A more absolute goose than Lady Huddersfield
I have never met. Fancy a womanlike
that, with the education of a charity-girl
and no mother-wit at all, attempting
to make her house a political centre ! I
went to two of her receptions last season,
and I really felt quite sorry for the poor

thing ; though, as there were heaps of
nonentities there, I dare say she was too
stupid to understand what a fiasco she had
made."

Thus, during the remainder of the drive,
Norma was entertained with details bearing
upon a rivalry with which this narrative
has nothing to do, and from which she was
led to conclude that Lady Huddersfield
was not the only fashionable personage
whose political ambition had resulted in a
fiasco. She was very willing to talk about
anybody or anything except Lord Walter,
and she was not at all pleased to find him
sitting in Lady Spencer's drawing-room
when, towards evening, she was conducted
thither to have a cup of tea.

He, on the other hand, was very pleased
to see her, because he had not anticipated
the meeting which his kind aunt had
arranged for him. So pleased was he that
he scarcely noticed the unusual chilliness
with which Norma accosted him, though
Lady Spencer noticed it and was amused

by it, thinking it rather a favourable sign
than otherwise. " One doesn't behave in
that way to a man whom one means to
refuse," that observant lady reflected.

And so, to relieve any embarrassment
from which the young people might be
supposed to be suffering, she obligingly
took the whole burden of the conversation
upon herself and chattered away fluently
for half an hour, at the expiration of which
time Norma rose.

Are you going to walk home ? " Lady
Spencer asked ; and, having obtained an
affirmative reply, she added, " Then I daresay
Walter will see you safely to your
hotel."

I shall be only too delighted," put in
Walter with alacrity.

But Norma declared that she wanted
no escort. What possible risk could be
run by walking a quarter of a mile in
broad daylight through some of the most
frequented streets of Rome ? As far as
that went, she was in the habit of walking

through streets which were not frequented,
and she had hitherto done so with impunity.
. To avoid further discussion she
said good-bye rather abruptly, and was out
of the house long before any servant could
be summoned to open the door for her.

But these were mistaken tactics to adopt
with a man whose will was strong and
whose legs were long. Not many yards
had she advanced upon her way when
Walter's voice close to her ear said, " As weare
going in the same direction, perhaps
you won't mind my company so far."

Not at all," answered Norma in a tone
of polite resignation.

From the haste with which you fled,
I was almost afraid that you did," he
observed rather resentfully; "but I thought
I would chance your displeasure. Did you
get my note ? "

Yes, thank you. It didn't require an
answer, did it ? "

Well, to tell you the truth, I rather
thought it did. That is, I should have

been glad to have one. But you can give
it me now by word of mouth, which will
be more satisfactory."

I don't know that there is very much
to be said. You only wrote to tell me
what you had told me before."

But I wasn't sure that you believed me
when I told you before. Do you believe
me now ? "

I quite believe that you didn't wish to
be left alone with Madge ; you made that
sufficiently apparent at the time. I only
thought that you might perhaps have
helped straying such a long way off and
losing sight of us ; but I dare say you
couldn't help it. And, after all, it is a
great deal more your business and hers and
Sir Christopher's than mine."

Walter looked at her inquiringly. " I
have offended you," said he, " and I don't
understand how. Would you mind telling
me what I have done ? "

I am not exactly offended with you,"
she answered ; " only I wish you didn't

think it necessary to say disagreeable
things about Madge."

Hasn't she rather deserved to have
some disagreeable things said about her ? "

"Perhaps; but you are hardly the person
who ought to say them. You might leave
that to her husband."

Who, I am beginning to suspect, gets
as good as he gives. Very well ; I'll endeavour
to say no more about her. Only,
you know, I can't be like you, Miss Shaft ;
I can't keep my eyes resolutely fixed upon
people's good qualities and ignore all their
evil ones. Compared with you, I shall
always be a sounding brass and a tinkling
cymbal ; though you'll admit that I can
appreciate true charity when I see it."

Never in her life had Norma felt less
inclined to exhibit that virtue or to be
identified with it. She sighed impatiently.
■" Oh yes, I know," she said ; " you have
told me so once or twice before." And
then, with some compunction, " I beg your
pardon ; but I am just a little bit tired of

the subject ; and I suppose I shall hear a
good deal more of it when your statue is
completed and exhibited."

Poor Walter was utterly taken aback by
this unexpected snub. He walked along
beside her, without speaking, for some
distance, and then said, in a tone of deep
mortification, " The statue shall never be
completed or exhibited unless you wish. I
would much rather reduce it to powder
than give you a moment's annoyance."

Nonsense ! " she returned, laughing.
1 ' I am not in the least annoyed with you
or your statue, it is only that I am in a
horrid bad temper to-day. I have concealed
it pretty well from everybody so far,
and I should have concealed it from you if
you hadn't insisted upon running after me.
Now let me say good-bye before I disgrace
myself any further."

As they had by this time reached their
destination, and as she extended her hand
to him in a resolute way, he could only
accept his dismissal ; though he would have

VOL. III. 41

liked very much to inquire what had
happened to produce so unprecedented a
result as loss of temper on Miss Shaft's
part. He was turning away when he
brushed against Sir Christopher Shearman,
who was in the act of effecting what looked
like a stealthy entrance.

a Beg your pardon ! " muttered Sir
Christopher. " How are you ? Rather ina
hurry — good night ; " and so hastened
up the stairs which Norma had already
mounted.

Sir Christopher had spent a most unhappy
day. He had sallied forth in the
morning with his head high and with an
inward consciousness not only of victory
but of rectitude. He had let his wife see
that he was not to be trifled with, and that
if he could beg pardon when in the wrong,
that was all the more reason why he should
show himself inflexible when in the right.
But poor Sir Christopher had not in him
the stuff of which victors are made. Perhaps
his heart was too soft ; perhaps his

moral courage was too feeble ; or possibly
he may have suffered from the fatal evil of
not knowing exactly what he wanted. Be
this as it may, he had become extremely
wretched before noon, and, having played
two or three games of billiards at the club,
was sorely puzzled to think how he was to
get through the remainder of the day. He
had said that he would not return home
before dinner-time, and until dinner-time
he was fully determined to remain out ;
though he now began to doubt whether
Madge would find this punishment a very
hard one to bear, after all. Meanwhile,
there was nothing for it but to smoke and
drink whisky-and-soda, in which unwholesome
fashion he employed himself for
several consecutive hours.

About five o'clock Mr. Grey looked into
the smoking-room, and, catching sight of
the gloomy-looking, red-bearded man in the
armchair, accosted him affably.

How do you do, Sir Christopher ?
Lady Shearman not tired after last night,

I hope ? I wonder whether I should find
her at home if I called at your hotel presently
? "

Sir Christopher jumped up as if he had
been stung. " No," he answered roughly,
you won't find her at home, because I've
given orders that she isn't to be at home
when you call. I dare say you young
fellows think it very good fun to go about
flirting with married women, and I dare say
it's the custom, and everybody does it, and
so forth and so forth. But it don't suit
me, and I'd just as soon tell you so plainly."

Mr. Grey raised his eyebrows and stared
with smiling interest for a moment at this
strange specimen of humanity. Then he
drew a silver card-case from his pocket.
Perhaps," said he, " you will kindly give
my card to Lady Shearman and explain
why I can't have the pleasure of calling
upon her personally. And here is one for
yourself. I should be sorry to be guilty
of any breach of courtesy."

With that he retired ; and immediately

afterwards there arose from the corridor
outside a roar of laughter which caused the
unhappy Sir Christopher to writhe. What
an ass he had made of himself ! Of course
that young wretch would tell the story allover
Eome, and he would be fairly laughed
out of the place. All of a sudden he made
up his mind that he would forestall the
mockers. He would leave the very next
morning, if Madge would consent to it —
and he was ready to purchase her consent
by an act of the humblest submission.
Anything would be better than that she
should hear what had occurred and join in
that dreadful chorus of hilarity.

So, with a swift and guilty step, he stole
back to the hotel and presently entered his
sitting-room, where, to his surprise and
great distress, he found his wife dissolved
in tears.

Down plumped Sir Christopher upon his
knees beside her, shaking the house. " Don't
cry, Madge ! don't cry, my dear ! " he exclaimed.
"I've come to tell you how sorry

I am. And I dare say I was wrong — and
it shan't occur again. And look here,
Madge, I want to get out of this confounded
place, where we've neither of us been very
happy, have we ? "

Chapter III.

A WAITING GAME.

Madge's tears, it need scarcely be said,
had not been made to flow either by her
husband's absence or by his previous
harshness. She had other and better
reasons for weeping than that ; and Sir
Christopher, had he only known it, was
casting himself at the feet of a sinner quite
as repentant as himself. Hardly, in truth,
had Madge regained her own room, after
slandering an innocent man, as above related,
when the reaction for which all timid
sinners ought to be prepared set in, and
she began to wish with all her heart that
she had held her tongue. It was not that
she felt any severe pangs of conscience on
account of the innocent man. Innocent he

might be of that particular offence ; but he
had been guilty of others which deprived
him of all claim upon her sympathy. What
really grieved her was, firstly, that, for the
sake of avenging herself, she had made
misrepresentations which might possibly
cause a great deal of unhappiness to her
best friend, and secondly, that there was a
very good chance indeed of her being found
out.

The latter reflection, no doubt, was more
distressing to her than the former ; but it
would not have troubled her so much had
she been less sincerely attached to Norma.
She could not bear the idea of losing
Norma's friendship; and of course she
would lose it if the facts were discovered ;
because the childish plea that she had told
no actual lie would certainly not avail her
in that quarter. And the facts might so
easily be discovered ! Lord Walter might
be interrogated ; Lord Loddondale might
take it into his head to avow his marriage ;
a dozen people could testify that Lady

Shearman and the late Mrs. Walter had
been upon intimate terms ; and then it
would be pretty evident that either the
late Mrs. Walter or Lady Shearman had
made a false statement. One of them
could have had no conceivable motive for
so doing, whereas the motive of the other
might be readily conjectured. All this
was clear enough, and Madge was truly
sorry that it had not been so clear to her
earlier in the day. Throughout the afternoon
she was haunted by fears and tormented
by self-reproaches ; insomuch that
by the time Sir Christopher came in she
had begun to cry about it.

She began to laugh too when he dropped
upon his knees, partly because he looked
so funny in that attitude, and partly
because his misconception of the situation
tickled her ; and so, being upon the
verge of hysterics and in urgent need of
sympathy, she was not very reluctant
about according the forgiveness that he
craved.

Only I do hope," said she, " that you
will try not to put me to such open
humiliation in future. It is bad enough to
be stormed at privately ; but at least one
would like to keep up appearances before
one's friends."

I know — I know ! " answered the
penitent Sir Christopher. " I ought to
be ashamed of myself, and I am ashamed
of myself — awfully ashamed ! And — and
the sooner we get out of this the better.
Don't you think so, Madge?" he added
eagerly.

Yes, I certainly do," replied Madge,
who was now fully as anxious to escape
from Rome as her husband could be. " I
suppose we must stay until after Easter ;
but then I shall be quite ready for a move.
Where shall we go ? "

Oh, wherever you like. Naples,
Florence — anywhere ! But after all, do
you care so very much about seeing these
ecclesiastical performances ? Everybody
tells me that they're disappointing."

Madge did not care in the least about
the " ecclesiastical performances ; " but she
did feel some curiosity as to her husband's
reasons for wishing to hurry her away.
Are you anxious to leave by the next
train ? " she inquired.

Oh no ; not by the next train. But I
thought, if you had no objection, we might
get off tomorrow. The fact is, I am
thoroughly sick of the place."

It would be a great scramble," observed
Madge — for she had learnt that ready concessions
were not good for Sir Christopher
" still, I dare say I could just manage it.
I don't mind the inconvenience, or the
giving up what we have come all this way
to see, or anything, if only you will be a
little kind and pleasant about it. But it
would be rather hard to be dragged off at
a moment's notice because you had taken
up some preposterous notion that it isn't
safe for me to be near Lord Walter Sinclair
and Mr. Grey."

I give you my word of honour,"

answered Sir Christopher earnestly, " that
I have no notion of the kind. It isn't that
at all. I was quite mistaken about Sinclair ;
and as for Grey" — here he could not
repress a slight shudder — " well, I daresay
you wouldn't see more of Grey if you
stayed here another month. Sure to be
busy, you know ; these diplomatic people
always are."

Madge made him plead a little longer,
and also exacted from him a full retractation
of every word that he had uttered on the
previous evening. Furthermore — because
there is nothing like striking while the
iron is hot — she led him on to promise
that, as some slight compensation for the
disappointment which he was inflicting
upon her, he would take a house in London
for at least two months during the coming
season. So that, upon the whole, she did
not do badly and was able to eat her
dinner with a better appetite than Sir
Christopher, who felt that there could be
no safety for him until he should be seated
in the railway-carriage.

Not until the next morning were the
Shaftos informed that their friends proposed
to leave for Naples by the one o'clock
train. Madge, who ran downstairs after
breakfast to impart this news to Norma,
represented herself, with a shrug of her
shoulders, as the victim of one of her
husband's unaccountable caprices.

Anything for a quiet life ! " she said.
I don't think we know a soul in Naples ;
so perhaps Christopher may be kept ina
tolerably good humour there. I must
ask you to say good-bye to our friends
here for me. Of course I shan't have
time ; and if I had, I shouldn't dare todo
it, lest I should get into trouble
again."

Norma undertook this commission, and
presently received a further request with
which she was quite willing to comply.

You won't say anything to Lord Walter
about what I told you, will you?" asked
Madge. " It may be quite untrue, you
see, and I shouldn't have mentioned it to

you if I hadn't been afraid of — of horrid
things happening."

Nothing horrid is going to happen,"
answered Norma, laughing. " As for the
story, I never doubted its being untrue,
and I haven't the slightest intention of
speaking to Lord Walter about it."

Madge gave a sigh of relief. She had
been in mortal dread lest Norma, in her
straightforward way, should seek information
as to this mystery in the quarter
whence alone trustworthy information could
be derived. Yet the next moment, feeling
it to be a little unsatisfactory that she
should have burdened her conscience with
an altogether ineffectual sin, she observed
pensively, " All the same, it may be true,
you know. Why are you so certain that
it isn't ? "

"I told you why yesterday," answered
Norma ; " I don't want to talk about it or
think about it any more. When shall I
see you again, Madge ? "

Madge shook her head and said she was

sure she didn't know. For the first time
in her life she felt no desire to arrange any
future meeting with her friend, and therefore
did not mention the probability of her
being in London during the season.

Presently Mr. Shaft came in, full of
regret and surprise at the tidings which
had just reached him ; and after a few-minutes
Madge went upstairs to make
preparations for the journey. Sir Christopher
did not show himself until the last
moment, when he took leave of his friends
in a hurried, furtive manner, as though he
had been afraid (and indeed so he was)
that there might be a third person in the
room whom he did not wish to encounter.
His exit had so much the appearance of
flight that even the unobservant Mr. Shaft
remarked upon it, saying —

"I wonder what's wrong with Shear-man
? If one didn't know that he was a
millionaire, one would think he was decamping
without having paid his bills."

What had been wrong with Sir Christopher

was very soon made known to all
who cared to hear about it. To expect
that Mr. Grey should keep so capital a
joke to himself would have been expecting
too much of mortal man, and for several
days the gaiety of Roman society was
appreciably augmented by the story of
the designing diplomatist and the jealous
baronet. After that somebody else did
something which enabled his neighbours to
bear false witness against him, and the
Sherman, being out of sight, passed out
of the public mind.

Three weeks elapsed — quickly for some
people, rather slowly for others. Easter
came and went ; the heat of the noonday
sun had perceptibly increased ; members
of the English colony were beginning to
consult their Bradshaw and look with
interest at the daily weather report in the
Times, to see whether the east wind was
still blowing at home. Walter Sinclair was
one of those to whom this period of time
had seemed long ; for somehow or other he

had seen next to nothing of Norma Shaft
in the course of it. He had, it is true,
met her pretty frequently, and she had
always spoken to him in a friendly way ;
but he had not once seen her alone, nor, do
what he would, could he ever manage to
find her free from the company of some
obnoxious third person. In the long-run
it became evident to him that this was not
the result of accident, and the discovery
depressed him not a little. He took his
sorrows and his doubts to Lady Spencer,
who laughed at him.

I had no idea that you were so fainthearted,"
she declared. " At least you
might give the poor young woman a
chance of refusing you."

But that is just what I don't want todo,"
returned Walter. " I am sure that if
I asked her now to marry me she would
refuse me, and I can't help fancying that I
have displeased her in some way. Do you
think Lady Shearman can have said anything
to her about me ? "

vol. in. 42

There is nothing to be said, my dear
Walter. A great deal might be said about
the generality of men; but everybody
knows that you have always been the
good boy of the family. Besides, Miss
Shaft is quite sharp enough to estimate
the value of information derived from that
source."

"Well," sighed Walter, "I suppose
there is nothing for it but to wait."

How long ? Till leap-year comes
round again ? Some bolder man will have
elbowed you unceremoniously aside before
then, I suspect. Anyhow, I really don't
see what more I can do for you."

Nevertheless, she tried to do a little
more, because she was fond of her nephew
and of Norma, as well as of her own wavering
Mr. Shaft one afternoon at the
house of a friend, she asked him confidentially
whether he knew that people
were talking about his daughter and Lord
Walter. " Not in any disagreeable way,"
she explained ; " still they are talking.

And between ourselves, I think there is
perhaps some little ground for it."

Then she went on to avow that, for her
part, she would not be sorry if fire were
discovered beneath this smoke. " I don't
know any girl whom I would rather have
for my niece than your daughter ; and I
needn't ask whether you would object to
Walter, because I am sure nobody could
object to him. He isn't a rich man, certainly,
but I really think that he is ina
fair way to become well off. The
Americans have found him out ; and that,
as you are aware, means money. As for
fame, people who ought to know tell me
that he has as good a chance of gaining
that as any young sculptor in Rome."

Mr. Shaft made a polite and complimentary
reply. His wishes, he said, were
thoroughly in accordance with those of
Lady Spencer and her nephew ; but she
would understand that he was quite unable
to answer for his daughter. " Young
women, as well as young men, insist upon

LIBRARY

choosing for themselves ; the utmost that
we can claim is a conditional right of veto.
For myself, I need hardly tell you that the
longer Norma remains with me the happier
I shall be."

The fact was that Mr. Shaft had had
pretty good news from England and was
consequently less desirous of seeing his
daughter provided for than he had been a
short time previously. Lady Spencer had
to make the best of his assurance that he
was as much on her side as he could be on
the side of anybody who proposed to inflict
a bereavement upon him. " It isn't in my
power to give your nephew any active
assistance," he declared ; " I should probably
do him a great deal more harm than
good if I were to attempt it."

Thus Norma escaped persecution, while
Walter obtained little encouragement from
his aunt, who spoke of leaving for England
shortly, and suggested to him rather heartlessly
that if he was doomed to a disappointment
in Rome, he would most

likely feel better after a season in London.
His own conviction was that to win
Norma would be no easy task, and that
lapse of time would be favourable to his
chances of success. He was not much
afraid of that bolder man, spoken of by
Lady Spencer, who might possibly elbow
him out of the way.

Yet audacity often wins where prudence
fails ; and this view of the case was somewhat
disagreeably forced upon his attention
one evening when he was returning homewards
after a long solitary ride across the
Campagna. During the winter season no
one can ride in the neighbourhood of
Rome without encountering numerous
parties of English people, mounted upon
hired horses, whose presence cannot, perhaps,
be counted among the charms which
belong to that strange and melancholy
district ; but the English people were on
the move now, and for two hours Walter
had seen no living being except a few
wild-looking contadini, wrapped in their

long cloaks and bestriding their sorry
steeds with the air of sombre dignity
which is the birthright of the Roman
peasant. It was only on nearing the city
that he descried, jogging along the road in
front of him, about half a dozen ladies and
gentlemen, some of whose backs he recognized.
Not feeling in a companionable
mood, he turned aside and cantered past
them across the grass at a sufficient distance
to avoid the necessity of saluting them ;
and so it was that he presently became
aware of an advanced guard of two persons,
the sight of whom caused him to draw in
his breath, and then utter an angry exclamation.


Well, to be sure, there was no reason
why Miss Shaft should not be riding with
Mr. Grey. She had done it often enough
before ; and Grey was a gay young butterfly,
whose attentions to ladies were too
general to be dangerous in any particular
case ; yet Walter did not like it. He
pulled his horse back into a trot and

watched them as he drew nearer, and it
seemed to him that they were enjoying
themselves very much together. He
could hear Norma laughing — what could
she find to laugh at in Grey's callow
witticisms ? It was irritating that she
should be able to derive amusement
from that sort of thing. Yet, when all
was said, she was a woman ; and it is
notorious that women frequently like men
who to their fellow-men seem a trifle contemptible.


Meanwhile, Mr. Grey, hearing the beat
of an approaching horse's hoofs, had
glanced over his shoulder; and Walter
might have been reassured by the friendly
manner in which that good-natured i young
man hailed him. " Hullo, Sinclair! where
have you sprung from ? You haven't got
such a thing as a spare pocket-handkerchief
about you, have you ? "

Walter took off his hat to Norma, who
nodded to him. " Yes," he answered, " I
think I have."

Then lend it to me, will you, like a
good fellow ? Mine is soaking wet from
the tears that I've been shedding. Miss
Shaft tells me that she is going to leave
us."

Walter's heart sank, though this was no
more than what he had been expecting to
hear any day for some time past. "Are
you really going away at once ? " he asked
Norma.

Yes," she answered ; "we start the
day after tomorrow for Venice, and then I
suppose we shall make for home — if one
can call Upper Belgrave Street home."

At any rate, there will be no place like
it to me, so long as you are there,"
observed Grey sentimentally.

Shall I see you again before you go ? "
asked Walter, after a pause.

Oh, I hope so. To-morrow afternoon a
few people are coming to tea with us for
the last time. Perhaps you will look in, if
you have nothing better to do."

That was as much as to say that she did

not wish to see him again, except in the
presence of a " few people." He could not
help feeling hurt, though he knew that he
was not entitled to feel hurt, and it was
but a small consolation to notice that she
was paying no attention to the unceasing
flow of Mr. Grey's peculiarities. He rode
beside the couple as far as the city gates,
and then wished them good night. What
was the use of seeing Miss Shaft to her
own door, since she was already provided
with an escort who evidently had no intention
of resigning his functions ?

CHAPTER IV.

FAREWELL.

It is a melancholy reflection for those who
are getting on in life and whose friends
are dying off that the chances are very
much against their ever being able to fill
the gaps left by the scythe of Time. Solitude
is the doom of old age ; and though
most of us know a certain number of
popular old women (who, by the way, are
seldom amiable old women), popular old
men are, for some reason or other, much
more scarce. On the other hand, if an old
gentleman does manage to achieve popularity,
he is usually very popular indeed ;
and such was the happy case of Mr. Shaft.
He took so unfeigned an interest in his
fellow-creatures and was so perfectly free

from prejudices of any sort or kind that he
was liked wherever he went ; and in Rome,
as elsewhere, he had a host of appreciative
acquaintances. Furthermore, he was the
father of a beautiful daughter, a circumstance
which always has a tendency to
swell anybodj^s visiting-list.

Consequently, Walter Sinclair, on presenting
himself at the Hotel Bristol at the
hour which Norma had mentioned to him,
found many carriages waiting before the
door and had some difficulty in making his
way through the throng which had gathered
in her little sitting-room to bid her farewell.
Grey was there, skipping about
with cakes and teacups ; so were sundry
solemn, handsome young Romans ; while
of ladies there were far more than there
were chairs for them to sit upon. Lady
Spencer, who had secured a vacant one
near the door, beckoned to her nephew,
and, when he had approached in obedience
to her signal, whispered —

Well, are you going to do the deed

this afternoon ? You haven't much more
time to think about it in, you know."

He shook his head and made a disgusted
grimace. " Is it likely that I shall have a
chance of ' doing the deed,' as you call it,
in such a crowd ? "

The crowd will disperse in due time, I
presume. Somebody must be the last to
leave, and if I were you, I should be that
person."

But Mr. Shaft won't leave, you see."

Mr. Shaft will give you five minutes,
in which time a great deal may be said.
I know he will be out of the room for five
minutes, because I mean to stick to this
chair like a limpet to a rock until everybody
else has gone ; after which he will
have to take me down to my carriage and
wait there while I talk to him about a
variety of interesting subjects. See what
it is to have a kind and thoughtful aunt ! "

Well, no doubt Lady Spencer's intentions
were thoroughly kind ; but he did
not think he would take advantage of her

kindness in the way that she meant him todo.
As, however, he was very anxious to
have a few words with Norma, he contented
himself with a mental reservation,
and, after expressing his thanks, prepared
for a period of patient waiting. As
Norma's visitors began to depart, one by
one, his purpose became evident. He saw
that she was aware of it, and he also saw,
with some satisfaction and relief, that the
discovery did not displease her. She even
threw him a little smile and a despairing
glance because an old lady, who had
lingered behind all the rest, could not get
to the end of an involved narrative, of
which no one but herself had heard the
beginning. But at length the old lady
said she was really afraid she must be
going ; and as soon as she had been got
rid of, Lady Spencer loyally carried out
her programme.

Norma sat down behind the tea-table
and sighed wearily. " Do you like people
of your own class ? " she asked. " To me

the poor are so much more interesting.
Their range of subjects isn't wide, but
those that they do talk about are quite real
and of the greatest importance to them."

In addition to which, they generally
want help. That is what makes them
interesting to you, I imagine. You see,
your point of view is a little peculiar.
What you ask of others is, ' How can I be
of use to you ? ' What most people ask of
a fresh acquaintance is, ' How can you be
of use to me ? ' "

Is that what you ask ? "

He laughed. " Not in so many words,
perhaps ; but probably, if the truth were
known, I prefer receiving benefits to conferring
them. You ought to consider mea
favourable specimen of my class ; for I
began asking you to help me very soon
after I met you that evening at Mrs.
Lammergeier's, and I have gone on requesting
favours pretty constantly ever
since."

Have you ? They must have been

very small ones, then, for I don't remember
them."

You can't have forgotten all the weary
hours that you spent in my studio. It
isn't very wise of me to remind you of
them, perhaps ; for you told me the other
day how tired you were of the subject."

I am very sorry I said that ; I didn't
mean you to take it seriously. Of course
they were not weary hours at all, and I
shall always like to be reminded of them."

Walter's face brightened. " Then," said
he, " I think, after all, I will be bold
enough to tell you what I have done ;
though I had almost made up my mind to
say nothing about it. A few weeks ago I
modelled a small replica of that figure,
hoping that possibly you would accept it
as a memento of your kindness. The cast
has been taken already, and the marble
will be finished before very long. May I
have it forwarded to your London address ?
It will only stand about two feet high, so
that it won't be a very cumbrous object."

It would be a very costly object in
proportion to its size ; but that Norma did
not know ; nor did she hesitate for a
moment to take the present offered to her.
How very good of you ! " she exclaimed.
I shall value it immensely and exhibit it
with pride to my friends when I am old
and fat and when you are celebrated."

The truth was that she did not suspect,
and never had really suspected, Walter of
being in love with her. She had avoided
him latterly because others had chosen to
misconstrue their intimacy and because
she did not wish to give any further excuse
for such misconstructions ; but now that
she was going away, her heart had become
greatly softened towards him. Also she
was conscious of having admitted certain
thoughts into her mind about him which
she hoped were unjust. Indeed, that was
why she had been glad to see his intention
of sitting out her other visitors. There
was something which she had been more
than half inclined to say to him, and while

he was thanking her with somewhat
exaggerated warmth for her generous
acceptance of his gift, she was wondering
how she might best put this into words.
Consequently her next observation sounded
somewhat irrelevant to his ears.

Do you remember Mr. Morley ? " she
asked.

The self-satisfied young man with the
bushy head of hair ? Oh yes, I remember
him. Has he set fire to the Thames yet ? "

No," answered Norma, laughing ; " he
has only written an article in the Omniscient
Review. At least, I suppose it is
by him, as it has been sent to me, and it
is signed B. M. It is upon the subject we
were talking about just now," she added,
explanatory — " the differences of character
that one notices between the rich and the
poor. Perhaps it might amuse you to look
through it."

Walter did not think that at all likely,
nor was he inclined to waste precious time
in discussing Mr. Morley or the productions

vol. in. 43

of his brain. He glanced rather contemptuously
at the article, which had been
marked with a cross in red ink, so that the
recipient should have no doubt as to what
she was intended to peruse, and which was
headed, " The Dry-Rot of Civilization."

Described and exemplified, I presume,"
observed Walter. " I can imagine nobody
better qualified to lay down the law upon
such a theme. Is it a fragment of autobiography
? "

You will see what it is if you will take
it away and read it," answered Norma.
There are some things in it which seem
to me well put, though I don't agree with
Mr. Morley's general drift. I should rather
like to hear how it strikes you."

Walter gladly undertook what seemed to
promise a speedy renewal of communications
with Norma. " May I write and
deliver my judgment when I have formed
it, then ? " he asked.

Oh, it isn't worth the trouble of writing
about. It won't take you a quarter of

an hour to read the article, and I thought
perhaps you would be at the station tomorrow.
A number of our friends are
coming there to see the last of us, I
believe."

All this was, after a fashion, satisfactory,
because it showed that Miss Shaft, if she
had ever been offended, was offended no
longer ; but then it also showed plainly
enough that she believed herself to be speaking
to one who was a friend and nothing
more. Walter did not say a word to
undeceive her ; and indeed there was no
time for him to say more, for now Mr. Shaft
re-entered the room, rubbing his hands and
remarking that the sun might be hot, but
that it was uncommonly cold in the shade
especially when you were kept standing
there for a quarter of an hour without
your hat. Doubtless Lady Spencer had
stretched the poor man's patience as far
as it would go.

In the course of the evening, Walter
duly perused Mr. Morley's article, which he

thought extremely silly, though the style,
being flashy and rhetorical, had a certain
attractiveness. The writer's intention was
not made very clear, but he apparently
sought to show that a high state of civilization
is not conducive to the upholding of
a high standard of morality ; that it is the
tendency of a refined and complex order of
society to exalt its own requirements at the
expense of those of the old-fashioned laws of
right and wrong ; that only in the lower
ranks does any one now think of judging
his own actions or those of his neighbours
by such laws, and that the English aristocracy
in particular, alarmed by the evident
writing n the wall, reserves the penalty of
ostracism for such of its members as behave
in a way to hasten its inevitable downfall.

I do not," observed this philosophical
onlooker, who wrote throughout in the first
person, and used the pronoun freely, " presume
to distinguish between right and
wrong in the abstract ; I do not even affirm
that such a distinction exists. I merely

state my conviction that for an indefinite
time to come it will be found necessary to
assume its existence, possibly also its divine
sanction, and that the class which recognizes
this in its simplest form will be politically
and socially predominant. The labourers
and artisans who already rule England
take their stand, consciously or unconsciously,
upon the decalogue ; the upper
classes, on the contrary, order their lives in
accordance with a host of formulated
precepts, of which the only distinct one is,
4 Thou shalt not scuttle the ship.' But the
ship is scuttled ; it is sinking fast ; and what
is curious is that its infatuated crew invariably
fall tooth and nail upon any one
of their number who attempts to work the
pumps."

In support of this assertion the writer
proceeded to adduce what he called a few
notorious examples ; notably that of a
statesman of high rank, the head of an
ancient family and possessed of great
wealth, who had recently ranged himself

upon the popular, or at all events the
Radical, side with reference to a burning
question. " A year ago this man might
have been cited as one who had the
whole fashionable world at his feet ; it is
now, I am assured, no very easy matter
to get a dozen people to meet him at
dinner.

So much for the politico-social aspect
of the case ; let us now glance at it from
a purely social point of view. I am acquainted
with a certain young scion of a
noble house who, when he was some years
younger than he now is, secretly married a
woman of the people. There was nothing
to be said against this woman, who was
quiet, respectable, and fairly well-educated ;
but he either tired of her or recognized the
fact that he could not acknowledge her
without losing caste. Accordingly, soon
after his marriage he turned his back upon
her, making her a small annual allowance,
and thenceforward calmly ignored her
existence. The woman kept her own

counsel until the day of her death, which
occurred not long since, after a protracted
illness. Her husband was doubtless aware
of her condition ; for it is within my knowledge
that some months before he became
a widower he was paying his addresses to
one lady who, as it happened, did not accept
them, and that he then began to lay
siege to the heart of another, with whom it
may be hoped for her own sake that he
will be equally unsuccessful."

The reader was then invited to contrast
the cynicism of the husband with the uncomplaining
heroism of the wife. The
latter, having been duly married, had
obeyed one of the laws insisted upon by
her class, and had been, if not contented,
at least resigned to her fate. The former,
by deserting his wife, had obeyed one of
the laws insisted upon by his class ; and it
was certain that from that class, as a whole,
he would incur no censure for acting as he
had done. The theme was amplified at
considerable length, and various deductions

were drawn from it which are perhaps
scarcely worth reproducing.

It was not Lord Walter's fault that he
missed the point of this essay. Never
having heard of Bessie Green, and not
recognizing a portrait of himself in the
unscrupulous husband alluded to, he paid
little attention to the anecdote beyond
an amused wonder whether Mr. Morley
habitually indulged in such personal
illustrations, and whether, if so, he would
not some day get his head broken. The
remainder of the composition did not
interest him, such of its views as were not
borrowed from other sources being for the
most part foolish and incoherent ; and he
tossed " The Dry-not of Civilization "
aside with a muttered criticism to the
effect that if the first word of the title
could not fairly be applied to the author's
style, the second described his ideas
accurately enough.

And so, although he remembered to take
the Omniscient Review to the station with

him the next day, he would probably have
made no remark upon Mr. Morley's contribution
(having more important things
to think about) if Norma had not at once
asked him his opinion of it.

Oh, it is rubbish'' he replied, with a
shrug of his shoulders. " If the lower
classes are predominant in England, it is
by virtue of their numbers. As for their
standard of morality being higher than
ours, I should think you must be as well
aware as anybody that it is not."

Still I think he is right in saying that
their ideas of duty are more simple and
definite than ours. Of course single
instances prove nothing ; but he gave one
which struck me as being to some extent
typical."

Do you mean the ' scion of a noble
house ' who espoused the lowly damsel and
immediately found out what a mistake he
had made ? I confess that I rather sympathize
with that unlucky scion. I can find
it in my heart to forgive him for pensioning

off an impossible wife ; and I fancy
that if Mr. Morley had pursued his inquiries
a little further, he would have discovered
that she was just as glad to be rid of him
as he was to be rid of her."

This was not a happy speech. It
sounded — or at any rate so Norma thought
very much as though the speaker was
not unacquainted with the circumstances.
Nor was his next observation any more
fortunate ; for when she said, " At least
you will admit that it was disgusting of
him to begin making love to somebody else
while his wife was still alive," he replied,
with a laugh, " It certainly doesn't sound
pretty ; but as he knew that the woman
was bound to die before long, it was
perhaps natural enough that he should
anticipate the date of his release a little."

Norma turned away. " Evidently," said
she, in accents of cold displeasure, " Mr.
Morley was not far wrong in assuming
that the man would meet with no severe
censure in his own class."

She at once began to talk to one of the
other men who had gathered round the
railway-carriage near which she was standing
; and after that Walter could get no
further speech of her. He did not in the
least understand what had brought about
this sudden change of manner. He was
sorry that he had spoken so flippantly
upon a subject which she apparently regarded
in a more serious light than he
did ; but it seemed to him absurd and in
no way characteristic of her that she should
desire, at that last moment, to punish him
so severely for a careless word or two. He
could only suppose that he must have
unintentionally affronted her in some other
way, and he would have asked her what
he had done if she had given him the
chance.

However, she did not give him the
chance. She had plenty of friends at hand
to occupy her attention during the few
minutes that remained to her. There was
Grey, with an enormous bouquet (" Why

didn't I bring a bouquet ? " thought Walter,
in some vexation), and there were various
other diplomatists, British and foreign,
young and old, besides a goodly contingent
of birds of passage, some of whom were
leaving by the same train. Norma had a
kindly word for each and all of them ; only
to Walter she had nothing to say except
Good-bye ; " and even that was interpolated
hastily into the middle of a sentence
addressed to the obtrusive Grey, who was
writing down the number of the house in
Upper Belgrave Street upon his shirt-cuff.

The engine whistled ; the train began to
move. " Good-bye, Sinclair ; don't forget
to look us up when you come home,"
shouted Mr. Shaft out of the window.
And so Walter was left to regret that he
had not made his adieux on the previous
evening, when, for some reason which he
was unable to divine, he had stood higher
in Norma's favour than he did now.

He walked away with Mr. Grey, who
was pleased to speak of Miss Shaft in

flattering terms. " One of the nicest girls
I have ever met in my life. Tremendously
good and all that sort of thing ; but not a
bit of a stick — enjoys a joke as much as
anybody. I shall miss her awfully."

So shall I," observed Walter absently.

His companion glanced at him and
began to laugh. " Why don't you go
after her then ? " he asked. " You're a
free man ; you aren't tied by the leg, like
us poor devils. Now I'll tell you something
that will make you look a little less
dismal. Miss Shaft won't be angry if
you follow her to Venice. The benevolent
interest which I take in you, my dear
Sinclair, has led me to talk to her about
you more than once, and I am in a position
to inform you that she won't stand hearing
you criticized, even by a benevolent friend."

CHAPTER V.

AT THE LIDO.

To set traps for vermin is absolutely
necessary ; but one rather deplores the
necessity, and wishes that they would be
good enough to come out into the open
and be killed in a more sportsmanlike way.
The setting of traps, whether actual or
metaphorical, is a practice to which no
fair-minded person can have recourse
without some compunction ; and Norma, as
soon as she had taken her last look at
"Walter Sinclair's grave face, began to
reproach herself for having given him that
article to read. It would have been more
to the purpose if she had reproached herself
for having assumed upon such very insufficient
evidence that he had fallen into

the trap ; but this view of the case did not
suggest itself to her. She had hoped and
expected that he would unhesitatingly condemn
the conduct of Mr. Morley's supposititious
" scion of a noble house : " she
did not see that a guilty man would have
been at least as likely to do that as an
innocent one ; nor did she count it as a
point in his favour that he had alluded to
the story without the smallest self-consciousness
or embarrassment. This only
struck her as an additional proof of callousness.
To Madge she had stoutly maintained
his innocence, and was prepared to continue
doing so ; nevertheless, she was now
inwardly convinced of his guilt, and only
regretted that she had reached that conviction
by somewhat equivocal means.

Now one cannot always help knowing of
circumstances discreditable to one's neighbours
; but one can very well help looking
as though one knew of them, and perhaps
the best way of achieving that quasi-unconsciousness
is to think about the

offenders as little as possible. Facilities
for oblivion were afforded to Norma by
change of scene. She and her father
journeyed northwards as they had journeyed
southwards, taking things very easily and
enjoying to the full what most of us,
unhappily for ourselves, have learnt to
think a great nuisance. They halted in
the old Umbrian cities where so few
travellers now find time to pause ; they
had two days at Bologna and a day at
Padua, and, as Mr. Shaft had given
instructions that his letters were to be
sent to Venice, nothing occurred to disturb
the happy humour in which he had started
upon this pleasure-trip.

With Venice itself Norma was enchanted,
as indeed any one must be who has the
good sense or the good fortune to visit the
Queen of the Adriatic at the right time of
the year and in fine weather. Venice can
look dismal enough when a bitter wind is
sweeping in from the sea or when the
clouds return after the rain, as they have

an unfortunate habit of doing south of the
Alps ; but in this glorious spring-time it
seemed as if sunshine and warmth could
never cease and as if no other place in the
world could be so delightful a place of
abode for lazy people to whom the gratification
of the senses suffices for happiness.

Norma was by no means a lazy person,
and therefore perhaps appreciated all the
more the pleasures of occasional laziness.
She and her father agreed that it was too
hot for sight-seeing. They hired a gondola
and contentedly idled the hours away
among the dark and narrow canals, which
are so full of picturesque surprises, or out
upon the wide, still lagoons, where the
colouring of sky and water reconciles one
to the affectation of that school of painters
who have chosen to describe their productions
in musical terms. And every
evening after dinner they joined the throng
which floated up the Grand Canal to the
Rialto in the wake of the well-known boat-load
of minstrels who have been singing

vol. in. 44

the same well-known airs and choruses for
the last quarter of a century or more.

One evening, when Norma was mounting
the staircase, after returning from this
concert and saying good night to her father,
who had gone off to the smoking-room
with a friend, an English footman stepped
forward, touched his hat to her, and
handed her a card. The card was that of
Lady Spencer Sinclair, and upon it was
written in pencil : " Arrived this afternoon.
So glad to find that you are still here.
Will you look in before you go to bed ? "

So Norma followed the footman into a
sitting-room on the first floor, where she
found the old lady reclining in a low chair
by the open window and serenely contemplating
the effect of moonlight upon
the dome of Santa Maria della Salute.
Lady Spencer was most affectionate in her
welcome.

My dear child, I can't tell you how
delighted I am to meet you again ! I was
afraid you might have left ; and then I

should have regretted having made this
detour. But now I shall look forward to
a few pleasant days in Venice. How
lovely it all is ! "

Norma agreed that it was perfect.

Then you won't be moving on yet
awhile, I hope ? " pursued Lady Spencer
interrogatively. " You see, it makes all
the difference to me whether I have friends
in a place or not. As a general rule,
when it is time for me to go home, I tear
straight through to London like a Queen's
messenger. There's very little enjoyment
to be got out of climate or scenery or
anything else unless one has some companion
to share it with."

Norma's soft heart was immediately filled
with pity for this favourite of fortune, who
had everything that the world could give
her and no one to think about but herself.
" Yes' she said ; "it must be very
melancholy to travel all alone."

Well, I'm not exactly alone this time,"
Lady Spencer confessed, " because I have

induced Walter to escort me ; but a young
man and an old woman seldom want to do
the same things, and though he is very
good and long-suffering, I am so afraid of
boring him to death that I am obliged to
be perpetually keeping out of his way.
Your being here alters the case entirely."

Lord Walter's being there altered the
case entirely in Norma' s opinion. She
guessed at once that his aunt had brought
him to Venice for other purposes than that
of escort duty, and her sympathy with Lady
Spencer was proportionally diminished.

He has now gone," continued the old
lady complacently, " to seek out Mr. Shaft.
We are in hopes of persuading you both
to come and lunch with us at the Lido
tomorrow."

It was thus that . Lady Spencer gave
evidence of her tactical skill. The proposed
arrangement might have been
negatived by Norma ; but it was pretty
sure to be consented to by Mr. Shaft, and
it had seemed ; to her advisable that his

daughter should be removed from him by
an innocent little stratagem while it was
being broached.

The fact was that Norma would gladly
have made an excuse if she could have
thought of a plausible one ; but she knew
quite as well as Lady Spencer did that
her father would have committed himself
by that time ; so she only said, " Thank
you ; we should like it very much."

And in 'truth, when Mr. Shaft joined
her later in the evening, it appeared that
everything had been satisfactorily settled.
Lady Spencer is going to send her
servants and the luncheon on ahead, and
we shall follow in our two gondolas.
Perhaps," he added ingenuously, " it would
be the most sociable plan for one of us to
go with one of them."

Of course it would," assented Norma
promptly. " I will go with Lady Spencer."

"Well— if you think so," said Mr.
Shaft, with a laugh. " I'm quite ready
to obey any orders that I may receive."

Norma, for her part, was resolved that,
whatever orders she might receive, she
would not share a gondola with Walter
Sinclair. It was not that she had any fear
of his giving effect to his aunt's wishes
by proposing to her — for she was as sure
that he would not do that as she was that
she had no intention of accepting him —
but she was disinclined to be left alone in
his company, dreading lest she should be
led into saying something which she might
afterwards be sorry for, and knowing that
it would be difficult to help letting him
see how low he had fallen in her esteem.

But Lady Spencer was not so clumsy
as to make embarrassing suggestions, and,
when she met her friends in the hall of
the hotel the next morning, acquiesced
without hesitation in the arrangement
which was somewhat eagerly put forward
by Norma. The latter had already shaken
hands with Lord Walter. She was not
called upon to enter into conversation with
him ; and it was in the sanguine expectation

that she would be able to avoid any
such necessity during the remainder of the
day that she seated herself in the gondola
beside the old lady who had designed this
expedition for a purpose which was certain
to be fulfilled.

For although, as many a careworn
chaperon knows, it is no easy matter to
keep a given young man and young
woman apart, it is the simplest thing in
the world to throw them together ; and
Lady Spencer, having the whole day before
her, could very well afford to wait. Lady
Spencer, moreover, was by temperament
as well as by circumstances exempt from
the cares whereby chaperons in general
are liable to become worn out. She had,
in a certain sense, set her heart upon
marrying her nephew to Norma Shaft,
and had accompanied him to Venice with
a view to furthering his suit ; but she was
able to contemplate his possible failure
with philosophy, knowing that there are
more good fish in the sea than there are

fishermen to catch them. Meanwhile, she
reclined upon the soft cushions under the
striped awning — nowhere else in the world
are there cushions so soft as those black
leather ones with which Venetian gondolas
are furnished — and enjoyed the long row
out to the Lido and the society of her
companion, which indeed she had always
found pleasant and soothing. Also, on
reaching her destination, she enjoyed the
luncheon which had been despatched
thither by her orders. This, it need
hardly be said, was excellent and elicited
the warm approval of Mr. Shaft, who,
however, remarked that it was not good for
him to be provided with such luxurious fare.
You will make us discontented with
our humble lot, Lady Spencer," said he.
When Norma and I start on excursions
we either take a few sandwiches with us
or rely upon local talent to see us through.
The consequence is that we have more
than once returned home smelling scandalously
of garlic."

The popular prejudice against garlic,"
answered Lady Spencer, who was really
interested in culinary questions, " arises,
like most popular prejudices, out of ignorance.
A suspicion of garlic "

But perhaps the remainder of her ladyship's
dissertation, which was a lengthy
one, may be omitted, as relatively unimportant.
During the course of it she
rose and gently drew Mr. Shaft out of
the little restaurant in which the repast
had been served to a shady verandah,
where there were chairs and a table prepared
for the coffee which was coming.
Norma was preparing to follow, but was
arrested by Lord Walter, who said —

Shall we walk down to the beach, Miss
Shaft ? I have something that I want to
tell you about."

"Yes?" answered Norma rather reluctantly.
" Can't it be told here ? "

Not very comfortably. I won't keep
you long ; only I don't want to be interrupted
before I have said my say. It will

be all over in about five minutes, I should
think."

So she signified her assent and walked
beside him to those shell-strewn sands
where the bride of the old commercial
republic whispers memories of bygone
splendour to its overtaxed and underfed
children. Was he going to make a confession
? She hoped not, because she felt
that it would be impossible even to pretend
to any sympathy for him, and yet she was
not desirous of setting herself up as his
judge. At the bottom of her heart she did
not think it in the least surprising that
he should have been unable to live with
Bessie Green, and she could well believe
that, as he had hinted, the separation had
not been less welcome to poor Bessie than
to him. Only, if she were to be asked
what she thought of his conduct as a
whole, she would have to say some things
which he certainly would not like. She
was altogether unprepared for the confession
that he did make, after a long

interval of silence, during which he had
been abstractedly kicking pebbles into the
sea.

I know it will be no good," he began ;
but perhaps, after all, it won't do me
much harm to speak out. Anyhow, that
is my aunt's view. She insisted upon my
following you — indeed she almost dragged
me here — to say what I never found the
courage to say in Rome. I don't think
you ever quite liked my declaring that I
was mad when I fancied myself in love
with Miss Wilton ; but now I can explain
to you what I meant by that. I must
surely have been mad, since I didn't discover
that it was you and not she whom
I loved the whole time."

And, as Norma made no reply, but only
gazed at him in unfeigned astonishment,
and even, as it seemed to him, with a
shade of disdain, he asked, " Do you believe
that ? "

How can you expect me to believe
it?" she returned. "It is absurd ! "

Oh, I don't dispute the absurdity of it.
But it is true. As I can't understand it
myself, I can't, of course, require of you
that you should understand it — only so it
is. I have never loved any one but you,
and I never shall love any one but you.
That is really all that I had to say — at
any rate, for the present. It was better
that you should know it ; though I have
very little hope that it will give you satisfaction
to know it."

What surprised Norma and made her
feel rather ashamed of herself was that it
did give her satisfaction. She certainly
did not believe that he had loved her at
the time when he had been so eager to
marry Madge, nor could she believe that
even that bygone passion had been the
first of his life ; but she did believe that
he loved her now, and she could not help
being glad of it ; though she told herself
that such love was scarcely worth having.
Meanwhile, he seemed to expect some
answer ; so she said —

I knew Lady Spencer was anxious to
make up a match between us ; she told
me so some time ago. But I felt sure that
you were not thinking of such a thing.
Otherwise I might have saved you the —
the trouble of speaking to me in this way."

The young man smiled. " I should have
taken the trouble in any case," he answered
; " I suppose it doesn't make much
difference that you have heard the truth
now instead of a few weeks hence ? "

No ; I can't say that it makes any
difference at all. So I hope," she added,
presently, " that you are mistaken in
imagining it to be the truth."

Walter dug his heel into the sand and
frowned. "It isn't a point upon which
one is particularly likely to be mistaken,"
he remarked.

I shouldn't have thought so if you
hadn't proved to me that it is quite possible
in your case."

Well — I have laid myself open to that
taunt, of course, and I am not going to

complain of it. There is no possible way
of convincing you here and now that it is
undeserved : all I can do is to trust to
time.

I didn't mean it for a taunt," said
Norma quickly ; " I only meant to remind
you of what is certainly a fact. And I
don't wish you to trust to time, please."

But you can't help it, Miss Shaft. I
know very well that you don't love me
now ; only, so long as you don't love
somebody else, I shall not despair."

After remaining silent for a few minutes,
Norma remarked, " That will be rather
disagreeable for me."

I hope not. I shall not be so inconsiderate
or so silly as to persecute you.
All I ask is to be allowed to come and see
you sometimes in London, just as 1 should
have done if we hadn't met here. May
I do that ? "

Yes, if you like ; only I think I ought
to tell you that I can never do as you
wish. I would very much rather that

you gave up thinking about it once for
all."

To this he made no direct answer ; but
presently he said, " You didn't know that
I loved you when we were in Rome ?
You didn't guess it ? "

No ; why should I ? It wasn't a very
probable thing to happen."

Well, then it was not on that account
that you changed to me. Because, you
know, you did change. During the last
part of the time you were not friendly
with me at all, and when I went to
say good-bye to you at the station you
would hardly look at me. Why was
that ? "

I am sorry," answered Norma, " if I
seemed unfriendly. I tried to avoid being
very much with you because remarks had
been made about my having gone so often
to your studio, and — and because of what
Lady Spencer said. That last day at the
station I was a little disappointed and
annoyed with you, I confess. I didn't like

the way you spoke about Mr. Morley's
article."

Oh, if that was all ! "

Then he suddenly remembered one passage
in the article which he had criticized
after a fashion that had been distasteful to
her ; so he added, " I dare say I didn't
do Mr. Morley justice ; but he really was
rather inconsequent. He based a whole
series of the gravest conclusions upon an
anecdote of which one only heard as much
as it suited him to tell. I couldn't help
feeling for the unfortunate man who was
held up to obloquy ; because, you see, I
happen to know how easy it is to make
the sort of mistake that he apparently
made."

Yes ; you can sympathize with such
mistakes and you can make them. I don't
think I could do either. That is why I
shall never care for you in the way that
you wish — or think that you wish."

Good heavens ! " exclaimed Walter,
do you suppose that any man can reach

my age without having been in love half
a dozen times or more ? One must call
it being in love, because of the poverty of
language ; but surely it has been proved
again and again that out of all these loves
or fancies, or whatever name you may
please to give to them, there is one, and
only one, which is real and lasting. Doubt
me by all means if you can't help it ; you
have a very good excuse for doubting
me. But don't imagine that you can
deprive me of hope. I shall go on hoping,
and I shall go on trying to win your love,
just as long as I know that it hasn't been
given to any other mam ; and nothing that
you can say or do will discourage me."

Thus a little fire was infused into a
colloquy which had hitherto been singularly
calm and reasonable. It ended,
after all, as satisfactorily for Walter as he
had ever expected that it would end ; for
Norma gave him the permission to go on
trying which she could scarcely refuse,
while warning him that his efforts would

vol. in. 45

certainly be unsuccessful. However, she
had made up her mind that at least there
should be no more trying in Venice, and
that, if possible, she would persuade her
father to leave that place the next day.

CHAPTER VI;

LORD LODDONDALE REAPPEARS.

Towards the end of May Mr. Shaft and
his daughter installed themselves in that
house in Upper Belgrave Street which was
henceforth to be their home. Indeed it now
presented something more of a homelike
appearance, many familiar pieces of furniture
having been transported thither from
Brampton which Norma recognized with
joy. Some time previously, her father had
informed her in an off-hand way that he
had thought it best to dispose of his effects
down in the country, that Shearman had
taken the greater part of them off his hands,
and that it wasn't worth while to have the
remainder sent up to London ; so that she
was duly grateful to him for having

prepared this little surprise for her. She
had been grateful to him, too, for the
promptitude with which he had left Venice
at her request. Although she had not
told him in so many words that she had
refused Lord Walter, he had understood
perfectly well what had taken place that
afternoon at the Lido, and had been willing
enough to escape from the possible importunities
of Lady Spencer, who had not
concealed from him the motive of her
hospitality. He was sorry that that
amiable lady had been disappointed ; but
his own disappointment was not very
keen, because, as has been mentioned, he
was in one of his sanguine moods at the
time, and asked nothing better than to
keep his daughter with him as long as she
would stay.

Norma had no intention of leaving him ;
and she told him so when he laughed at
the elaborate arrangements which she was
making for the disposition of the rooms
and the furniture. " One would think you

were going to spend the rest of your life
here," he remarked ; " whereas the probability
is that your wedding-day will come
before you know where you are."

Everybody doesn't have a wedding-day,"
Norma returned, " and women don't
exist for the sole purpose of getting married.
Why should I wish to marry ? I have
you to look after, not to speak of my poor
people, and I really do think that I should
be a little bit missed if I were to go away."

Mr. Shaft said there wasn't much doubt
about that. For a few days after his
arrival in London he was as happy and
contented as possible, pleased to be back in
England again, pleased to meet all his old
friends at the club and to have his rubber
of whist in the afternoon, pleased more
especially with his house and his daughter,
and with the excellent little dinners provided
for him. But very soon clouds
began to show themselves upon the horizon,
and it was with a grave and troubled face
that he returned from his first visit to the

City, where he had had an interview with
the great Lammergeier.

The great Lammergeier was himself in
trouble at this time, certain splendid combinations
of his having signally failed.
The political situation, as he candidly confessed
to his eager disciple, had falsified his
anticipations. He had counted confidently
upon the outbreak of a European war in
the spring ; and now, owing to one of
those slips which will sometimes occur
'twixt the cup and the lip, there was not
going to be war. This, though a blessing
for humanity, was a very great nuisance
for Baron Lammergeier. It naturally
made him a little short in the temper, and
disinclined to sympathize with the petty
misfortunes of so small a speculator as Mr.
Shaft.

Losses ! My dear sir " (what he said
was " Ma tear thir," for in moments of
emotion he became very Hebraic in his
pronunciation), " you are not the only man
who has had losses. We must bear these

But Mrs. Lammergeier did not find her
husband in a very thankful mood when he
joined her after business hours, and Norma
was made anxious by the recurrence of her
father's fits of fretfulness.

"It is all nonsense — utter nonsense, you
know ! " he exclaimed abruptly one evening.

What is nonsense ? " Norma inquired.

Why, this fancy of yours for being an
old maid, and visiting the poor, and all
that. Dear me ! I suppose there's nothing
to prevent a married woman from visiting
the poor, if she wants to see them. I wish
to Heaven you had married Sinclair !
Well, well ! of course, if you couldn't like
him, you couldn't, and there's an end of it.
But it's a great pity ; and if anybody else
turns up, I do hope you won't be in such a
hurry to reject him. I can't tell you what
a relief it would be to me to know that
you were safely provided for."

Then he jumped up hastily and left the

room ; for he did not want to tell her how
terribly alarmed he had been by rumours
which had reached his ears from other
sources than that upon which he was wont
to rely for information. The truth was
that Baron Lammergeier had had a narrow
escape of shipwreck ; and although he was
believed to be in comparatively smooth
water again, things had been whispered
about him which are only said aloud about
men who have actually suffered shipwreck
things which made poor Mr. Shaft
shudder and robbed him of his sleep at
nights.

But of this Norma knew nothing, not
being much in the way of hearing about
such matters and not having yet seen
Mrs. Lammergeier, who had only left a
card at the door, without coming in. This
simple method of discharging social obligations
(which is highly to be commended,
and which, it may be hoped, will, as
civilization advances, be further amplified
by the employment of halfpenny postage-stamps)

has hardly been recognized out
of London as yet ; and Norma, who was
accustomed to country ways, thought Mrs.
Lammergeier rather rude. However, another
acquaintance, who was much less in
the habit of paying calls than Mrs. ,
showed himself more polite. This
was Lord Loddondale, who presented himself
one afternoon, looking remarkably
bright and smart, and who shook Norma by
the hand with such heartiness that she had
difficulty in repressing a cry of anguish.

My old aunt told me that you were
home again," said he ; " so, as I was in
London, I thought perhaps you wouldn't
mind my looking you up."

Norma declared that she felt greatly
flattered. " You don't often pay your
friends such a compliment, do you ? " she
asked.

Well, no ; not very often. But I'm
rather thinking of turning over a new leaf
now. You heard of my triumph, of
course ? "

Norma was obliged to confess that she
had not ; whereat he looked a little disappointed.
Well, it was only that his colt
had won the Derby. He had supposed
that that was the sort of thing of which
everybody would hear — just the name of
the winner of the Derby ! However, on
second thoughts, perhaps it was rather
ridiculous that people who had never been
to Epsom or Newmarket in their lives
should affect to be interested in one race
more than another. And he hated sporting
women ; he was very glad that Miss
Shaft wasn't a sporting woman.

Walter has been having a triumph
too," he remarked presently. " You'll
have heard of that, at all events."

Once more Norma had to admit her
ignorance. " The fact is that I have been
nowhere and seen scarcely anybody since
we came back," said she. " I have been
very busy getting the house in order."

But, good gracious me ! " ejaculated
Lord Loddondale, with wide open eyes,

you don't mean to say that you haven't
been to the Academy to see Walter's statue
the statue of yourself ! Why, everybody
in London is talking about it ! And a
rare good bit of work it is, too. Even I,
who don't pretend to know much about
these things, can understand that."

I am very glad to hear that it has been
a success," said Norma. " I quite hoped
that it would be."

Oh, it's no end of a success. But I
can't understand your not having seen it —
or him either." Lord Loddondale stroked
his chin while he contemplated Norma
with a puzzled expression of countenance.
Miss Shaft," he resumed abruptly, " you
remember what I had the cheek to say to
you at Monte Carlo. Would you mind
telling me how things have gone ? I
couldn't get anything out of Walter."

I don't mind your knowing," answered
Norma ; " only I would rather say no
more about it after this ; and of course you
won't mention it to anybody, because Lord

Walter might not like it to be talked
about. He did — very much to my surprise
ask me to marry him ; but I couldn't
accept him. I don't know," she added,
why you should have set your heart
upon my becoming* your sister-in-law ;
but, as you did, I should have been glad to
have met your wishes, if that had been
possible. Only, you see, it really wasn't
possible."

Lord Loddondale received this bad news
with more equanimity than might have
been anticipated. " When a thing is really
impossible, there's no good in going on
wishing for it," was his sage remark. He
added presently : "I suppose I mustn't
ask why it is impossible ? "

"You may ask; but I can't answer
you," said Norma, with a smile. " If I
were to ask you why you like racing, or
why you don't like society, you couldn't
answer me, could you ? "

Not very well," Lord Loddondale confessed.
" I could give you reasons quite

easily ; but I dare say you wouldn't call
them good ones. If your reason for refusing
Walter was that you didn't like
him well enough to marry him, that's conclusive,
and you couldn't give a better
one. I only thought that perhaps there
might have been another — I mean, you
might have fancied that he wasn't quite
free yet."

How not free ? " inquired Norma, with
some curiosity ; for this sounded very like
an allusion to the story which Mr. Morley
had been good enough to make public in
the columns of the Omniscient Review.

But Lord Loddondale had never even
heard of the Omniscient Review. "Well," he
answered, " I saw in the newspapers that
Sir Christopher and Lady Shearman had
been in Rome, and I asked my old aunt
whether she had come across them. She
made the most hideous face you ever saw
in your life, and said she had met them
once and didn't want ever to meet them
again. Now, Walter has always been my

aunt's favourite nephew ; so I put two and
two together, do you see, and I came to the
conclusion that Lady Shearman had been
trying on some of her old games again."

Your brother is perfectly free from the
feeling of attachment that he once had for
Lady Shearman," answered Norma gravely.
He is particularly anxious that everybody
should know that."

Well, you know I always told you that
he didn't care a bit about her. So there's
no chance for him then ? You've quite
made up your mind against him ? "

Norma nodded. " I have quite made up
my mind. You will have to begin looking
out for some other suitable person, if you
are determined that he shall marry. But
wouldn't it be a great deal better to lookout
for somebody for yourself? "

This was a suggestion which had very
often been made to Lord Loddondale, and
which had never hitherto failed to elicit an
angry rejoinder from him. Now, however,
he did not seem to be angry, but only

smiled and remarked, " Well, the fact is,
I'm afraid I'm rather hard to please."

But no doubt," said Norma, glad to
have effected a change of subject, " you
have a wide field for selection. You certainly
ought to marry. Winning the
Derby may be a proud achievement ; but
don't you think it is time for you to turn
your attention to more humdrum successes
than that ? When one has such a place as
Warbury, for instance, one shouldn't let it
remain closed all the year round."

"Ah ! " said Lord Loddondale musingly.
And then, with a sigh, " Well, I don't
know, I'm sure. You're fond of that
neighbourhood, I suppose?"

Of course I am. I shall always think
of it as home ; though it will never be my
home again."

It might be. You might marry a
Stourshire man, don't you see ? I was
awfully sorry when I heard that Mr.
Shaft had sold Brampton ; I knew it
would be a blow for you. Upon my word.

it's disgusting to think of that little wretch
of a Shearman woman taking your place ! "
It was at this appropriate juncture that
Lady Shearman was announced. A little
wretch she might be; but she was a very
pretty little wretch, and nobody could deny
that she knew how to dress herself. She
had now been for some weeks in London,
where she had met with many old acquaintances,
and had made a number of
new ones. Already she was beginning to
acquire that aplomb and those agreeable
manners which she had lacked in her
younger days, and which have since made
her not only popular but, in a restricted
sense, celebrated. If she did not display
much aplomb upon the present occasion, that
was because it gave her a shock and a fright
to find Lord Loddondale, of all people, inclose
confabulation with Norma, whom she
had put off visiting from day to day by
reason of the guilty conscience with which
she was troubled. Lord Loddondale, for
anything that she knew to the contrary,

might have been making revelations, and in
the confusion of mind which a guilty conscience
is apt to engender she did not realize
that a revelation of the whole truth on his
part would not necessarily compromise herat
all. Therefore, while embracing her
friend, she stammered and blundered incoherently
; which signs of embarrassment
Norma took to be merely expressions of
penitence for remissness.

Don't look so ashamed of yourself,
Madge," said she, laughing ; " one doesn't
expect you fashionable people to be able todo
as you please at this time of year ; and
I will forgive you for having neglected me.
Come and sit down and tell me what you
have been about."

Lord Loddondale jumped up, with a
grunt, and said he must be off. " Perhaps
you'll let me come and see you again, Miss
Shaft. I should like to have another talk
about — about what we were speaking of
just now, you know."

What was he speaking of just now ? "

vol. in. 46

asked Madge inquisitively, as soon as the
door closed behind him.

Nobody who knew him would guess.
I was strongly advising him to marry, and
he seemed quite disposed to take my
advice."

Oh — I see," said Madge meditatively.
" Yes ; I suppose he will marry
now."

Why now more than at any previous
time ? " inquired Norma. And she wondered
why Madge turned so red in explaining,
" Oh, I only meant now that he
has got his title and his property. He
hasn't had them so very long, you know."

But after this little slip Madge soon recovered
her presence of mind ; for it was
evident that Norma knew nothing. She
began to chatter in a lively manner about
the numerous entertainments at which she
had been present, and which had apparently
afforded her much enjoyment.

"London is a vast improvement upon
Brampton," she said, "and Christopher —

well, Christopher is Christopher, and will
remain Christopher, I suppose, to the end
of the chapter. Still I may say that I take
him in a diluted form here."

She dwelt at somewhat unnecessary
length upon Sir Christopher's foibles ; upon
the trouble that she always had to get him
to consent to the giving of ever so small a
dinner-party ; upon this, that, and the other.
At variance with her custom, she asked no
questions, and it was only when she was
drawing on her gloves, preparatory to
departing, that she remarked casually, "Of
course you have been to admire yourself at
the Academy ? "

No, indeed," answered Norma. " To
tell you the truth, I didn't even know that
I was there until Lord Loddonclale told me
about it just now."

Didn't know that you were there ! '"
echoed Madge. " Haven't you seen Lord
Walter, then ? "

Not yet. I am not sure whether he
has heard of our return."

To Madge this was satisfactory bearing,
if a little puzzling. " Oh, he has heard
that you are in London," she said ; " because
I met him the other day and we talked
about you. He has blossomed out into a
celebrity," she added. " It seems that, asa
nation, we have been rather poor in
sculptors up to now and that he is expected
to raise us from our present humble
position at the bottom of the class."

I am so glad ! " said Norma heartily.
I always hoped that he would distinguish
himself."

Madge looked curiously at her and then
began to talk about something else. It
seemed clear that Norma did not intend to
be Lady "Walter Sinclair ; but whether the
chance of bearing that title had been offered
to her she did not dare to ask.

CHAPTER VII.

MR. SHAFTO FINDS A SUBSTITUTE.

That a despised suitor is a great deal more
likely to improve his position by a little
wholesome neglect than by unwelcome
attentions is a maxim of which everybody
admits the truth, though very few think
fit to put it into practice ; and if Walter
had wished to rouse Norma's interest and
stimulate her curiosity, he would undoubtedly
have been wise in holding aloof
from her. In reality, he held aloof from
her with no such astute design, but simply
because he was afraid of being a nuisance.
Nevertheless, the effect of his abstention
was very much what might have been
anticipated ; and as clay after day passed
without his calling in Upper Belgrave

Street, she began to think and wonder
about him far more than she would otherwise
have done. Was he angry with her ?
She hoped not ; for she sincerely wished to
remain upon friendly terms with him, if
that could be managed. Did he think that
she would object to receiving him ? She
certainly had not meant him to think that.
Or was it possible that he was now giving
one more proof of his curious changeableness,
and that he had already succeeded in
ridding himself of an attachment which he
had so recently declared to be unalterable ?
The latter hypothesis, being at once the
most disagreeable and the most improbable,
was naturally that which chiefly commended
itself to her, and it must be
owned that her vanity was a little wounded
by it. On returning home one evening,
however, she found his cards upon the
hall table, so that she was able, after all,
to acquit him of deliberate rudeness.

Mr. Shaft, whom she had chanced to
encounter on the doorstep, glanced over

her shoulder at the cards and sighed
heavily. " Ah, poor Sinclair ! he might as
well spare himself the trouble of calling
here, I'm afraid."

"I should be sorry if he were to drop
our acquaintance," said Norma.

Well, of course it's for you to decide
whether he shall do that or not. After all
that has come and gone, I don't see how he
is to be treated as an ordinary acquaintance."


I can't treat him as anything else,"
said Norma decisively.

Why not ? What in the world would
you have ? ' exclaimed Mr. Shaft, with a
sudden outburst of irritability. "Do you
know what you're throwing away ? Do
you know that that young fellow is going
to be a great man ? One may almost say
that he is a great man already. Just one
objection might have been brought against
him, and now that has been removed, for
everybody tells me that he is sure to make
his fortune."

There was a clings little room on the
ground floor which Mr. Shaft used as his
study. He had moved into it while he
was speaking and now stood behind his
writing-table, which was littered with stock
and share lists, with financial newspapers,
and with unopened circulars. " If only you
were safely married to some decent man ! "
he sighed.

The light fell upon his face, and it
seemed to Norma that he had all of a
sudden become very old. His cheeks had
fallen in ; his rosy complexion had faded to
a yellowish-gray colour ; the lines about
the mouth and eyes had deepened into
furrows ; the lower lip trembled. With a
swift intuition she guessed what he was
thinking of, and a pang of apprehension
made her heart stand still.

Papa," said she, " you are not well ;
you have been over-tiring yourself. Will
you see the doctor, if I send for him ? "

Certainly not' answered Mr. Shaft
sharply ; " there's nothing the matter with

me ; I'm as well as you arc. I'm only
worried — worried to death ! " lie added,
with an abrupt change of tone, as he sank
down in his chair and let his head drop
upon his hand.

Are things going badly ? " Norma
asked, after a moment's hesitation ; for she
knew how he disliked to be questioned
about matters of business.

Yes — no — I can't tell you. I don't
know how things are going. That's the
worry of it. I don't know how things are
going — and Lammergeier puts me off. I
have trusted that man too much — trusted
him too much ! "

The last words were spoken in a whisper,
and perhaps Mr. Shaft was hardly conscious
of having uttered them ; for he seemed
surprised when Norma, who had seated
herself upon the arm of his chair, began to
reason with him gently, as if he had been
a child. What, after all, was the use of
money, except to bring ease ? — and what
ease could it bring to any one who was in

perpetual fear of losing it ? If Baron
Lammergeier was not to be trusted, why
go on trusting him ?

Who said he wasn't to be trusted ? "
returned Mr. Shaft, rousing himself from
the reverie into which he had fallen. " You
don't understand these things, Norma : you
think, as all women do, that a man whose
ventures prove unsuccessful is a thief.
This happens to be an anxious time — for
Lammergeier, and for me, and for others.
But it will pass, I dare say ; many people
think that it has passed already. Only, as
I've told you before, it would make me
feel more happy to know that you were
married and provided for."

I can't marry Lord Walter," said
Norma ; for she thought it best that there
should be no misconception upon that point.

"Well, well!" returned Mr. Shaft
wearily, " we must look out for a substitute
then, I suppose."

And this became a fixed idea with him ;
so that in every man of suitable age and

means whom he encountered he saw a
potential son-in-law. He took to bringing
them home with him to luncheon or dinner,
loading them with civilities, and looking
anxiously at Norma while he drew out
what he conceived to be their attractive
qualities. What was distressing to her,
although a little comical, was that they
generally understood quite well what he
was about, and that some of them (being
highly eligible young men and therefore
naturally shy) showed decided symptoms
of alarm until she contrived to reassure
them. One day, however, Mr. Shaft
returned in triumph, having secured a prize
who was more than eligible, yet apparently
free from any timidity or reluctance.

Is there any lunch going, Norma ? "
asked the old gentleman briskly. " I met
Loddondale in the park just now, and he
said he was thinking of paying you a visit,
so I persuaded him to come back with me.
We can offer him something in the way of
food, I suppose ? "

Lord Loddonclale said a biscuit and a
glass of sherry would do him perfectly
well : during the hunting season he never
swallowed more than that between breakfast
and dinner. Besides, he hadn't come
there to eat ; he had come for the pleasure
of seeing Miss Shaft. Indeed, it seemed
as though he must have been saying a
good deal about the pleasure that this
would afford him to Miss Shaft's father,
who rubbed his hands and looked delighted,
as well as very knowing.

At first Norma was much relieved to
find that, this time, she would only be called
upon to entertain a guest whom there was
no occasion to set at his ease ; for she was
very sure that Lord Loddondale did not,
and never would, wish to marry her. But
afterwards she became a little less certain
of that. He did not, it is true, throw
eloquent glances at her, nor did his voice
change when he addressed her, nor did he
behave in any way as lovers are wont todo
; yet his manner was no longer quite

the same as it had previously been. He
was very evidently anxious to suit his conversation
to her tastes ; he did his best to
talk about many subjects of which he was
entirely ignorant ; and, upon the whole, it
seemed by no means unlikely that, having
made up his mind that he ought to marry
somebody, he had fixed his choice upon a
lady for whom he had always professed a
Platonic admiration.

After luncheon he asked her what she
was going to do. Had she been to the
Academy yet ? And, on hearing that she
had not, he declared it was really too bad.
I should think I must have been there
quite half a dozen times, though I don't
know a painting from an oleograph. I'll
tell you what, Mr. Shaft, I'll take you
there this afternoon, both of you. Miss
Shaft ought to see herself as others see
her, and she won't have to go much beyond
the turnstile. Walter's statue is the first
thing you catch sight of after you've paid
your shilling."

Mr. Shaft wasn't sure that he would
have time : he had an appointment for
half-past four which he must keep. As,
however, it seemed that the carriage had
been ordered at three o'clock and was
already at the door, he ended by yielding
to Lord Loddondale's entreaties, remarking,
'- Your brother might think us uncivil,
perhaps, if we didn't take a look at his
work."

And on the way towards Piccadilly he
was at considerable pains to explain that
posing as the original of this representation
of Charity had been in itself an act of pure
charity on Norma's part. " Between you
and me, it was rather a bore for her ; but
she was glad to be of use — she is always
putting herself out to be of use to somebody.
She would have done as much for
any other sculptor in Rome."

It is scarcely too much to say that no
other sculptor in Rome could have turned
her complaisance to such good account as
"Walter Sinclair had done. Others, no

doubt, might have conceived a design as
simple and graceful ; but only one who
was profoundly in love with his model could
have given to it that undefinable air of
reality which may have been the secret of
its success.

Sculpture cannot be called a popular
branch of art in England, and one sometimes
wonders whether the works of a
modern Michael Angelo would attract much
attention if exhibited in the Central Hall
of the Royal Academy. Yet, incompetent
critics as nine-tenths of us unquestionably
are, we may venture to lay claim to
a certain untutored instinct which seldom
leads us astray. We often fail to admire
what is worthy of admiration ; but, on
the other hand, we do not often applaud
what is worthless. That year the British
public had shown its capacity for occasional
right judgment by emphatically
approving of Lord Walter's statue ; and
the British public, as we all know, does
not do things by halves. Norma had

to study the marble reproduction of the
figure which was so familiar to her over
the heads of a closely packed crowd, listening
the while to comments which astonished
her by their enthusiasm. At first she was
a little afraid of being recognized ; but
apparently there was no ground for apprehension
on that score, nor indeed, as she
gazed, could she flatter herself that the
likeness was one which would be detected
by any chance bystander. It was her own
face ; but there was an exquisite, an almost
divine beauty in it which her looking-glass
had never revealed to her. She saw now
what she had never seen in Rome, that it
was a work of true genius. She was glad
and proud, for Walter's sake, that it was
so ; and her heart beat with a mixture of
joy and pain which she did not care to
analyze at the thought that she was loved,
or at least had been loved, by its author.

Can those who are capable of achieving
really great things be also capable of committing
mean and despicable actions ? Of

course we all know that they can ; but it
is difficult to believe it when we are actually
brought face to face with their achievements
; and at that moment the absurdity
of supposing that Walter Sinclair had
deserted his wife, and, in anticipation of
her death, had declared his love, while she
was still living, for another woman, seemed
to Norma manifest. Afterwards she remembered
that his love for Madge had
been genuine while it lasted, and that it
had lasted a very short time ; but just then
she was ready to acquit him and to heap
dust upon her own head.

From these musings she was roused by
the voice of Lord Loddondale. " Well,
Miss Shaft, it was worth coming to look
at, wasn't it ? "

"It is beautiful," answered Norma simply ;
I didn't know how beautiful it was."

Awfully glad you like it," said Lord
Loddondale as complacently as if a compliment
had been paid to himself. " My
own opinion is that if Walter lives to

vol. in. 47

be a hundred he'll never do anything
better."

"I wonder who will buy it ? " said Norma
presently.

Oh, it's bought already ; and at a pretty
stiff figure too, I can tell you."

Really ? Do you know who the purchaser
is ? "

Lord Loddondale nodded. " I've the
best of reasons for knowing. Now, you
mustn't imagine," he added presently, " that
I gave a fancy price for it. I never give
fancy prices for anything, and what's more,
he wouldn't have taken a fancy price from
me. In point of fact, I believe he rather
hates me for having robbed him of it, as
it is ; but then he admits that he would
have hated anybody who had robbed him
of it. What I did was to find out how
much other people were disposed to offer
and bid a little above them. I haven't
made a bad bargain, I'm told."

I thought you didn't care for art in
any shape or form," observed Norma, to

whom these mercenary details were a little
distasteful.

Can't say I do, as a general thing.
But I care for that statue, and I was determined
to have it."

If this emphatic assurance did not please
Norma very much, it pleased her father
beyond measure. Mr. Shaft was always
given to jumping to conclusions ; but a
less impetuous person than he might have
reached the conclusion which he had adopted
upon such evidence as that. A man who,
by his own confession, neither understands
art nor loves it does not buy statues and
pay long prices for them. No ! there could
be no doubt about it : that Norma might,
if she pleased, be Marchioness of London
was as plain as — as Lord Loddondale
himself. Well, certainly he was not handsome
; but what of that ? A kind heart
may surely be held to counterbalance red
hair and a heavy rent-roll to atone for a
snub nose.

In these comforting reflections Mr. Shaft

indulged as he followed his daughter and
her escort into the first room, whither they
had moved, and where they were conversing
with animation while pretending to examine
the pictures ; but he could not indulge
himself in that way long, nor could he help
interrupting them, reluctant though he was
to do so.

I'm afraid my time's up," said he.
I'm sorry to hurry you away, Norma ;
but necessity has no law."

Oh, I am quite ready to go," answered
Norma. " I can come and see the pictures
some other time, and I'm sure Lord London
has had enough of art for one day."

Mr. Shaft was not dissatisfied with the
smile which she bestowed upon Lord
Loddondale, nor with the manner in which
she took leave of that converted misogynist
at the foot of the staircase. His wishes
must surely be obvious to her, and since
she did not discourage him, it might fairly
be assumed that he had found some favour
in her sight.

Good-bye, Loddondale, and I hope we
shall see you again soon," said Mr. Shafro
cordially, after he had put his daughter
into her carriage ; and then he hastened
away to keep his appointment, which for
once did not take him to the City, but to
a certain house in May fair, ornamented by
a brass plate.

He gave his card to the servant who
admitted him, and, after a few minutes'
delay, was shown into a study, where a
grave-looking, elderly man was seated,
writing.

"How do you do, Sir William ?" began
Mr. Shaft, in a hurried, half-apologetic
fashion. " I rather wanted to consult you
not that there's much the matter ; only
I have some symptoms that I don't quite
understand. Merely indigestion, I dare say
you'll tell me ; still one likes to be on the
safe side, so I thought I'd just ask your
opinion," etc., etc.

The grave-looking man waited quietly
until his visitor had done ; perhaps he was

not unaccustomed to preliminary statements
of this unnecessary character. Then he
asked a few questions. " What is your
age ? Do you ever suffer from so-and-so
and so-and-so ? Can you sleep pretty
well ? " To all of which queries Mr. Shaft
was able to make replies which sounded
satisfactory.

I should like to listen to your heart,
please," said the doctor ; and, having made
a brief examination, he sat down and
scribbled off a prescription. " Well, Mr.
Shaft," said he, " I think you will have
to bear in mind that you are no longer as
young as you once were. Avoid overfatigue,
and, if possible, emotion of any
kind. I have ordered you a tonic, which
I hope may do you some good."

In point of fact, there's nothing amiss
with me, except old age, eh ? " said Mr.
Shaft.

Nothing else — at present," replied the
other, with a slight smile. " Thank you.
Good day."

Well, this seemed to be tolerably reassuring
; but just as Mr. Shaft reached
the door it struck him that the doctor had
laid some emphasis upon the words " at
present." He paused, and then took a few-steps
back into the room. " Excuse me,
Sir William," said he ; " I know you great
men hate committing yourselves ; still, if
I am near my end, I would rather be
told so."

I certainly should not be justified in
telling you so, Mr. Shaft."

Nevertheless, you think it would be
prudent of me to set my affairs in order."

The doctor smiled once more.

At your time of life, that is always a
prudent thing to do," he replied. " I may
venture to say so much as that without
any reference to your present state of
health. If the symptoms which you
mentioned become more troublesome, perhaps
you will let me see you again."

Now these symptoms were really very
trifling — an occasional feeling of oppression

and lassitude, a buzzing in the ears, a
numbness of the hands and feet at times :
one need not imagine one's self threatened
with a stroke of paralysis because one experiences
such common sensations as these.
Yet Mr. Shaft as he walked away knew
that he had had a serious warning. The
doctor had not said much ; but then he
had left a good deal unsaid — a good deal
which he assuredly would have said if he
had wished to dissipate the fears which he
must have known very well that his patient
entertained.

And he distinctly advised me to put
my affairs in order," mused Mr. Shaft.
Ah ! if I could act upon that advice it
would do me a great deal more good than
his tonic. Well, supposing that I live a
few more months — who knows ? Meanwhile,
the first thing — the great thing — is
to get Norma married. Once that's done,
it will matter little enough what becomes
of me."

CHAPTER VIII.

NORMA MAKES A GREAT DEAL OF MONEY.

The craftiest and most successful of living
statesmen is commonly believed to have
paved the way for his triumphs by the
unusual expedient of frankly and bluntly
stating his aims. In his case the frankness
and bluntness have perhaps been somewhat
more apparent than real ; still there is, no
doubt, much to be said in favour of a
method which puzzles everybody, and it is
possible that Mr. Shaft, in declaring and
reiterating his desire that Norma should
become the wife of Lord Loddondale, was
less clumsy than most people would have
pronounced him to be. At any rate, he
did not arouse opposition by this system of

tactics, which is more than can be said for
the general run of tacticians.

It is true that he had to deal with one
whose most earnest wish was to gratify
him. Norma saw only too plainly that
her father was fretting himself into an
illness ; she noticed that his eyes brightened
and that his spirits and appetite improved
every time that Lord Loddondale came to
the house ; and to deprive him of the one
hope which seemed to sustain him in this
time of anxiety was an act of cruelty to
which she could not bring herself. It was
a time of great anxiety for her as well as
for him ; for although he only alluded in
vague terms to the pecuniary disaster
which he dreaded, she understood — and in
truth he meant her to understand — that he
was threatened with something like absolute
ruin. Thus she was exposed to the danger
of being at any moment called upon to
decide whether she would accept Lord
Loddondale or reject him. At first she
had hoped that that somewhat eccentric

young nobleman did not really entertain
the sentiments attributed to him and that
his daily visits might be due partly to a
friendly feeling and partly to a secret
determination to carry out the project
which he had broached to her at Monte
Carlo and which he might not yet have
abandoned, in spite of his apparent failure.
The kindliness and admiration with which
he always spoke of his brother seemed to
lend some countenance to this theory.
But she was soon compelled to relinquish
it. It could not be said that he made
love to her in the ordinary acceptation
of that phrase ; but he intimated his intentions
in language which was perhaps
more unequivocal than he intended it to
be.

I've quite made up my mind to act
upon your advice, Miss Shaft," he informed
her ; " I'm going to marry, and I'm going
to do my duty to the Stourshire people, if
I can. Only it doesn't altogether depend
upon me, does it ? I shall have to get

somebody else's consent before I can bring
that event off."

And on being asked whether he had yet
fixed his choice upon any person in particular,
he laughed and replied, " I'll tell
you that a little later on ; and when I tell
you, you'll understand why I didn't take
you into my confidence sooner. But one
thing I can promise you, Miss Shaft : my
wife will be a person whom you'll approve
of, or she'll never be my wife at all."

It was impossible to misinterpret speeches
of this kind, and all Norma could do was
to affect an unconsciousness which she
trusted would stave off the evil day. She
did not at all like doing this ; it seemed to
her, and perhaps it was, a little dishonest ;
she had never been in the habit of staving
off evil days or trying to shut her eyes to
the necessary consequences of her own
actions. And so it came to pass that she
accustomed herself more and more to the
idea of eventually marrying a man whom
she did not love, but for whom she had a

sincere liking. That is an idea to which
doubtless a very great number of women
can accustom themselves without serious
unhappiness. That Norma could not do
so was her misfortune : sometimes she was
inclined to think that it was also her fault.
Meanwhile, she had resumed all the
avocations which she had taken upon
herself before leaving England, so that she
had not a great deal of time to devote to
self-examination. As formerly, the denizens
of certain unfashionable districts claimed
her attention ; the excellent, hard-working,
but amusingly self-satisfied gentlemen who
represented the Anglican priesthood in
those districts did not fail to remind her
that a long holiday is a very dangerous
thing, unless it sends us back to our
labours with remunerated energies ; also it
appeared that she was badly wanted at the
Hall of Recreation. The Hall of Recreation,
like a great many other meritorious institutions,
had been outrunning the constable,
and those who were responsible for its

debts had decided, as responsible persons,
usually do under such circumstances, that
money must be extracted from the public
by the time-honoured but always effectual
expedient of a bazaar.

Nobody can abhor bazaars more than
I do," sighed Lady Adelaide Tomkinson ;
but what is one to do when one's friends
are so horribly stingy ? If they would
only believe it, it would pay them a great
deal better to hand us over ten or twenty
pounds apiece at once, besides saving themselves
and us an infinity of trouble. But
it is useless to tell them that ; and the
Duke of Brentford has kindly lent us his
riding-school; and the committee think
that you had better take the flower-stall,
Miss Shaft."

In point of fact, the committee had based
their decision upon the specified ground
that, for obvious reasons, the sale of buttonholes
ought to be intrusted to the best-looking
woman ; but this Lady Adelaide
did not mention, because it is so wrong to

flatter young people's vanity. Added to
which, she had had the misfortune to differ
from the committee ; for she had fully
intended to sell the buttonholes herself.

The honour conferred upon her was not
one which Norma greatly coveted, being
doubtful whether she possessed the especial
gifts of fascination which induce young
men to give five guineas for a rose. However,
when the time came, she very soon
found that no unusual exertions would be
required of her after all. The very first
person to enter the building, after the
doors were opened, was Lord Loddondale,
who chose his bouquet, had it pinned into
his coat and laid down a ten-pound note
by way of payment. This was a noble act
(and, it may be added, a wholly unprecedented
one on his lordship's part) ; but
his benevolence and helpfulness by no
means ended there. He now stationed
himself in the gangway, and from that
moment he suffered no man, young or old,
married or single, to pass on undecorated.

His method was short, sharp, and decisive.
You want a buttonhole, I suppose ?
Very well ; only make haste, please, because
you're preventing other people from
coming in. There's no price. Pay what
you please ; but we can't give change."

One or two elderly gentlemen had the
hardihood to say that if they couldn't have
change they would do without a buttonhole,
and these were thrown into deep
confusion by receiving their flowers gratis ;
but the majority paid sovereigns and half-sovereigns
cheerfully or grudgingly, and it
was all that Norma could do to keep pace
with the demands made upon her. Upon
the whole, she enjoyed herself. A great
many celebrated and distinguished personages,
some of whom were introduced
to her by Lord Loddondale, while some
she recognized from having seen their
photographs so often, presented themselves
at the counter behind which she stood ;
and if their remarks were hardly such as
she could make a mental note of and recall

with interest in after-life, they were at all
events pleasant and complimentary. Every
now and then some of her acquaintances
appeared and were swept on, like straws
upon the surface of a stream. Madge
Shearman, for example, came within the
field of her vision in this way and passed
out of it again, smiling, nodding, and
making helpless gestures ; but Sir Christopher,
who purchased a pink carnation,
shook her by the hand and was very cordial.

Why have you never been to see us,
Miss Shaft ? Won't you come and dine,
and hear all the Brampton news ? I must
ask Madge when we have a free evening.
She's having a rare benefit now, I can tell
you ! You won't be able to accuse me of
making her lead a dull life any more."

Next came Baron Lammergeier, who
was already provided with a sprig of
stephanotis, but who plucked out this
exotic and trampled it underfoot as he
approached. He congratulated her upon
her " splendid thirtieth," saying that he

vol. in. 48

was sure she must have collected enough
to supply recreation to a dozen parishes.
Might he be allowed to contribute his mite
to so admirable an object ? And out came
a bank-note, which was somewhat ostentatiously
upheld for a moment or two
before it descended into Norma's open
palm. His wife contributed nothing, excepta
hasty bow. Mrs. Lammergeier was
evidently not anxious to speak to her
former friend, and Norma wondered why.
But she had not much leisure for wondering
; otherwise she might perhaps have
wondered more than she did why, in a
crowd which seemed to comprise the whole
society of London, Walter Sinclair should
have remained conspicuous by his absence.
She was beginning to feel very tired when
old Nell Travers hove in sight and greeted
her effusively.

Let me into that sentry-box of yours,"
Miss Travers said, " and I'll give you a
helping hand. Don't I realize your motion
of a jolie bouquetiere f Never mind ! I

won't thrust myself forward ; but I can
hand you the flowers as you want them,
and suggest neat speeches to you in a
whisper. I have an immense stock of
them on hand, which are quite at your
service, being of no value to the author."

Accordingly she perched herself upon a
high stool at Norma's elbow and entertained
her with a running commentary
upon the passers-by. Also she had a good
deal to say about sundry old friends. The
Sherman were getting on very well —
very well indeed. Madge was in a fairway
to take rank as a professional beauty,
and what was much more surprising than
that, she really appeared to have tamed
her unmanageable husband.

I didn't think she had it in her ; but
so it is. He snaps and snarls at her
occasionally, and then she makes him go
down on his knees and lick the ground.
Mark my words ; that young woman has a
career before her. And, talking of careers,
what do you think of Walter Sinclair's

coming out as the rising sculptor of the
day ? I'm free to confess that I didn't
think he had it in him either; though I
suppose you did. He owes his fame to
you, my dear, and I suspect that nobody
knows that better than he does. By the
way, where is he ? I thought I should
have met him here."

I haven't seen him," answered Norma.
Perhaps he isn't very fond of bazaars."

Small blame to him ! But he ought to
be here, whether he likes it or not. Didn't
he tell you that he was coming ? "

Norma had to confess that he had had
no opportunity of so doing ; whereat Miss
Travers raised her eyebrows. Miss Travers,
in fact, had heard certain rumours, and
was in her present position chiefly for the
purpose of satisfying herself as to their
truth. She said nothing more upon the
subject, but kept a vigilant eye upon the
entrance until she caught sight of the figure
for which she had been looking out. Then
she slipped quietly off her stool, and,

passing round to the front of the stall, took
Lord Loddondale by the arm.

Come along and show me Mrs. Farley's
Wax-works," said she.

Eh ? — wax works ? " returned Lord
Loddondale, who was not desirous of
quitting his post. " There aren't any wax-works,
are there ? "

I should think there were ; but really
I don't know, and what's more, I don't
care. Come and show me something else
anything else. It is for your sake that
I make this request. You have been
standing here quite long enough, and you
require a change."

Don't play the fool, Nell," remonstrated
Lord Loddondale ; " what do you want ? "

If you must needs know, I want to ask
you your intentions ; and how can you
answer me unless we withdraw a little
from the madding crowd ? Are you aware
that you have been seriously compromising
Xorma Shaft by your extraordinary behaviour
this afternoon ? "

During this colloquy, which resulted in
the withdrawal of Lord Loddondale from
the scene, Walter Sinclair had approached
Norma's stall. The afternoon was now far
advanced ; the building was thronged, but
arrivals had ceased, and he could talk to
her without much risk of being interrupted.

I hope the statuette reached you
safely," he said, after a few commonplaces
had been interchanged.

Yes ; and thank you a thousand times
for it," she answered, glad that he had
introduced that subject. " I have been to
see the original too, and I wanted to tell
you how delighted I was with it. Of
course you have been complimented by
people whose good opinion is much better
worth having than mine ; still I can't help
adding my humble voice to the chorus.
Don't you feel very proud ? "

He smiled, and refrained from making
an obvious rejoinder. She knew that he
loved her, and must be perfectly well
aware that her praise was sweeter to him

than the applause of a hundred critics.
For the present, that was enough ; so
he only answered, " Success is always
pleasant, I suppose ; but one swallow
doesn't make a summer. That is the
most important thing for me to bear in
mind just now."

I shouldn't have thought so," she returned
; " I should have thought that the
most important thing for you was to have
confidence in yourself. Surely that is half
the battle."

Again he had to put a curb upon his inclinations
; for he would have liked to ask
her whether that rule was of universal
application, and whether, supposing that
there was something which he desired far
more ardently than fame or fortune, self-confidence
would stand him in better stead
than patience and humility. For his own
part, he had decided to adopt quite another
system of strategy. He thought — and
perhaps he was right — that what she required
to be convinced of was, not that he

loved her, but that his love was of an
enduring quality ; he had promised that he
would not persecute her, and he meant to
keep his promise. Only of course it was
a little difficult to steer a straight course
between friendship and love, to make her
understand that he had not changed, and
yet that he could patiently submit to be
banished from her society, if she so willed
it. She seemed to think that his delay in
calling in Upper Belgrave Street had been
due to other engagements ; so that he was
obliged to explain how little disposed he
felt for going out into the world, and that
he had been refusing all invitations. Thereupon
her manner at once became more
reserved. She began to talk about the
bazaar and the unexpectedly large take
that she had achieved.

u Principally through your brother's
exertions," she added. " If it hadn't been
for him, we should have been at least a
hundred pounds poorer than we are. The
whole afternoon he has been standing

where you are now and simply ordering
people to buy flowers of me. Shameless ;
but effective."

Loddondale at a bazaar ! " ejaculated
Walter incredulously ; " I should as soon
have expected to hear of his handing
an alms-bag in church. What can have
induced him to do such an amazing
thing ! "

At this juncture Lord Loddondale appeared,
to answer the question in person.
He clapped his brother on the shoulder
and said, " Now then, Walter, where's
your buttonhole ? You need me to look
after your customers for you, Miss Shaft,
I see."

Walter laid down a sovereign and received
a rather faded rose in exchange for
it. He lingered for a time beside the
stall, listening with wonder and growing
disquietude to the familiar conversation
which ensued between his brother and
Norma; then he strolled on and allowed
himself to be plundered until the hour of

closing arrived. Lord Loddondale was
still leaning over the counter when he
returned ; but now everybody was going
away, and presently Norma withdrew to
deliver up the contents of her overflowing
till to Lady Adelaide Tomkinson, after
warmly thanking her coadjutor and bidding
him good-bye.

Which way are you going, Walter ? "
asked Lord Loddondale, when the two
brothers were left together.

I don't much care," answered Walter
absently. " To St. James's Street, I think.
I'll go with you, if you're walking." And
they had not proceeded many yards along
Piccadilly before he asked, with some
abruptness, " Have you changed your mind
about Miss Shaft, Loddondale ? You told
me once that you wanted me to marry her,
but that you had no idea of marrying her
yourself."

Lord Loddondale nodded. " Quite right.
I told you so, and I meant it at the time ;
but the truth is that circumstances have

occurred since then which have given mea
freer hand. I needn't enter into them ;
they concern nobody but myself. I'm glad
you have asked me the question, though ;
because I shouldn't wish to enter myself
against you if — if, in fact, you were not
rather a doubtful starter. But "

But the pen has gone through my
name," suggested Walter, with a faint
smile.

Exactly so," said Lord Loddondale,
who had been somewhat hampered by his
promise not to mention that he had heard
of Walter's rejection. " If you admit that,
there's no reason why I shouldn't try my
chance, I suppose."

None whatever," answered Walter ;
there wouldn't have been any from the
first."

I won't quite say that. I told Miss
Shaft, when I met her at Monte Carlo
last winter, that I asked nothing better
than to have her for my sister-in-law, but
since it seems that that can't be — why, I

shall be a proud and happy man if she'll
consent to be my wife."

Walter could not help laughing. " You're
a queer sort of lover, Loddondale," he remarked.


Oh, I'm not exactly what you would
call a lover at all," answered the other
composedly ; " that sort of thing is out of
my line. The way I look at it is this :
everybody says I ought to marry, and I
suppose everybody is right. Well, if I do
marry, it will have to be Miss Shaft.
I'm perfectly certain that I couldn't stand
living in the house with any other woman
I have ever met."

I think I ought to tell you," said
Walter, after a pause, " that I haven't
given up hope yet. I have been refused,
and I don't mean to offer myself again for
some time to come, because I know it
would be useless. But if Miss Shaft
rejects you, I shall certainly make another
attempt."

You'll have my best wishes, old

man," returned Lord Loddondale good-humouredly
; " but just at the present
moment it looks to me as if my chance was
a better one than yours. I'll let you know
how I prosper."

CHAPTER IX.

LORD LODDONDALE's CHANCE.

Nobody, perhaps, is a very good judge of
the woman whom he loves. As a matter
of course, he ascribes to her virtues which
she may or may not possess ; but he seldom
gives her credit for much discrimination,
or doubts the possibility of her becoming
attached to a man with whom she has
nothing at all in common. If Walter
Sinclair had not been in love with Norma,
he would probably have seen that his
brother could not, in the nature of things,
stand the smallest chance of winning her
affections. As it was, he only said to himself,
as so many have said before him, and
will continue to say to the end of time,
that it was very extraordinary, that women

were incomprehensible, and so forth. Lod-condole
was a good fellow, a much better
fellow than most people supposed, and it
would be doing him a great injustice to
say that he was unworthy of a good
woman's love ; but that Norma Shaft
could ever be happy as his wife seemed
almost inconceivable. However, if she
thought differently, there was nothing
more to be said, nor anything to be done.
He could only await the issue with such
patience as he had at command ; and in
the mean time he made no attempt to see
her. Until this question was settled, one
way or the other, he felt that he could not
trust himself in her presence.

Unhappy and apprehensive as he was,
he would have been a great deal more so
had he known the true state of the case.
Assuming that there is nothing wrong in
marriage without love (and that, after allis
an assumption upon which the majority
of civilized nations act), Norma had every
reason for accepting the offer which, as she

could no longer doubt, Lord Loddondale
intended to make. His mixture of shrewdness
and simplicity, his genuine kindness
of heart and sincerity — these and other
attributes made up a character which she
]liked and had no difficulty in understanding.
She was inclined to think that she
ought to marry him, if he wished it, and
to be impatient with herself for the extreme
repugnance which she felt to the idea of so
doing. All her life long she had been
accustomed to think more about the happiness
of others than about her own : why
should she hesitate now to make her father
and Lord Loddondale happy by what, after
all, ought not to be any very great personal
sacrifice ? " It isn't as if I cared for anybody
else," she thought. Thus she brought
herself to that perilous condition of mind
in which decision is apt to be the result
of circumstances ; and Lord Loddondale,
without knowing it, played his cards
skilfully when he invited Mr. and Miss
Shaft to spend the Ascot week with him

in the little house on the outskirts of
Windsor Forest which he had hired for
that meeting.

The invitation was immediately and
eagerly accepted by Mr. Shaft ; although
our old friend Mr. Winstanley-Pettie, whom
he met at the club, and to whom he incidentally
mentioned it, thought fit to give
him a kindly word of warning.

Going down to Ascot to stay with
Loddondale — and going to take your
daughter ! My dear Mr. Shaft, if you'll
excuse my saying so, I really think you
had better not. The sort of people whom
Loddondale has with him on these occasions
are — well, not quite the sort of
people whom you would like your daughter
to be seen with, I imagine."

I am quite sure," replied Mr. Shaft,
with dignity, " that Loddondale would
never dream of asking my daughter to
meet anybody to whom I could object."

And the event proved that his confidence
was not misplaced ; for when Norma and

vol. hi. 49

her father reached the pretty little cottage
in which they were to be entertained from
Monday to Saturday, who should come
tripping out of the drawing-room to welcome
them but Lady Spencer Sinclair.

I haven't been at Ascot since the
Flood, and I certainly didn't expect ever
to see the course again," Lady Spencer
declared ; " but my nephew made such a
pathetic appeal to me that I couldn't
refuse him. Let us hope that before this
time next year he will have given somebody
else a better right to do the honours
for him."

It would have been difficult to speak
more plainly ; but, in order to avoid any
possible misconception, Lady Spencer accompanied
her words by a little nod and
smile at Norma, who, remembering certain
conversations at Rome, could hardly help
laughing.

Yet the good lady was not inconsistent.
Having made up her mind that Norma
was a suitable person to be admitted into

the Sinclair family, she did not, individually,
care which of her nephews made
the suitable alliance. For the matter of
that, it was a great deal more important
that Loddondale should marry than that
Walter should do so ; and there was a
directness about the proceedings of the
elder brother which, to her mind, contrasted
very favourably with the dilatoriness
of the younger. She had therefore
not only acceded to Lord Loddondale's
wishes, but had been kind enough to select
his party for him. It consisted of but few
persons, all of whom were his relations ;
so that when Norma took her place at the
dinner-table, she felt as though she were
in the presence of a family council, assembled
for the purpose of bestowing upon
her a family benediction. That, perhaps,
was exactly what Lady Spencer had intended
her to feel.

A nice lot of solemn fools I've asked
you to meet, haven't I ? " her host seized
an early opportunity of remarking to her.

I'm awfully sorry ; but the fact of the
matter is that it's my old aunt's doing.
I said to her, ' Let's be respectable, whatever
we are,' and she took me a shade too
literally at my word. The only thing is
that you needn't be bored with them,
except in the evenings."

Lord Loddondale's guests were not
fools, nor were they particularly solemn ;
although, since they were no longer young,
and had never been addicted to that kind
of hilarity which consists chiefly in breaking
the furniture, they were a good deal
quieter than his usual associates. Norma
was not at all bored by them ; only she
would have liked, if it had been possible
to do such a thing, to explain to them
that she had not yet made up her mind to
accept the honours with which she was
threatened. An uncomfortable feeling that
her mind had been made up for her and
that she had insensibly advanced to a point
from which retreat would be extremely
difficult interfered a good deal with her

enjoyment during the first two days. But
for that, a scene which happened to be
entirely novel to her would have pleased
her well enough. The weather was fine
and warm ; the drive to and from the
course on Lord Loddondale's drag (there
was a victoria for Lady Spencer, who
offered the vacant seat in it to Mr. Shaft)
lay through country which at that time
of year might almost be called beautiful ;
and the fact that her host had horses in
all the more important races gave her an
interest in the sport which perhaps she
might not otherwise have experienced.
His own interest in it was so deep and
unfeigned that she saw very little of him
while the racing was going on ; and notwithstanding
the marked attention and
deference with which he treated her at
dinner and during the evenings, he did
not, as a lover might have been expected
to do, display any particular anxiety to
draw her away from the rest of the company.
Sometimes she had a faint hope

that Mr. Shaft and Lady Spencer and
everybody might be mistaken, and that he
only wished her to be his friend, after all.

The truth was that Lord Loddondale,
being a cool-headed, methodical sort of
person, had decided that he would not
expose himself to the risk of being refused
before the end of the week. He wanted
Miss Shaft to enjoy the Cup Day, and
this benevolent wish of his was gratified ;
for Norma, free from any immediate
anxiety, was able to derive a good deal of
pleasure from a scene which is always
brilliant when the sun shines, despite
certain deplorably inadequate attempts to
make it so. He himself did not enjoy it
quite as much as he might have done ;
because his horse, after having been made
a hot favourite for the principal race, was
beaten by a head, which caused the day
to be an expensive one for him. However,
he more than recouped himself by
carrying off the Hardwicke Stakes on the
Friday ; so that on that evening he was

in good spirits, feeling that the omens were
favourable.

After dinner Norma was sitting out in
the garden with Lady Spencer and the
other two ladies who made up the female
proportion of the small house-party. It
was warm and still, and her thoughts were
far away at deserted Brampton, where the
roses were wasting their sweetness upon
the gardener and his subordinates. During
the day she had met Sir Christopher and
Madge, who had stated that they would
be leaving London shortly and had begged
her to pay them a visit. She was wondering
whether she would like to return asa
visitor to the old home which could
never be her home again or whether it
would not be better to preserve the
memories that she had of it unimpaired
by new associations. Her musings were
not much disturbed by Lady Spencer's
prattle or by the sound of the men's voices
which came to her through the open
windows of the dining-room, for it was

now tolerably evident, she thought, that
Lord Loddondale did not mean on this
occasion to declare his intentions, if indeed
he had any.

Upon that point she was presently undeceived.
A thin cloud of cigarette-smoke
floated past her, and, turning her head,
she became aware of her host, who had
approached noiselessly across the lawn,
and who was standing close to her
elbow.

Would you mind walking to the end
of the shrubbery with me, Miss Shaft ? "
said he.

She rose without a word. She knew
at once what was coming, but it was useless
to attempt to shirk it. Lord London
would certainly contrive to say, sooner
or later, anything that he was determined
to say ; she only wished that she could feel
the same certainty as to the reply which
she would have to make to him. Meanwhile,
she walked beside him in silence,
while he led the way through clumps of

rhododendrons to a small plantation where
there was a rustic bench. Here he halted,
begged her to sit down, and deliberately
seated himself when she had done so.
Miss Shaft," said he, " I want to ask
you whether you can possibly see your
way to doing such a thing as marrying
me. You know pretty well by this time
what I am — not much to look at, and not
much to talk to. I know nothing about
art or science and precious little about
politics. Most ladies would tell yon that
my manners are atrocious and that I have
a taste for low company. To set against
all that, I have one or two good points.
I've never been what anybody could calla
vicious man ; I'm not bad-tempered, nor
jealous, nor sulky, and I stick to my word.
If I tell you that I'll do any mortal thing
in my power to make you happy, you maybe
sure I mean it."

Lord Loddondale paused for a moment
before adding, " Then there's the position,
which I suppose counts for something—

and the money. I'm not enormously rich ;
still I'm about as well off as most people
care to be."

Do you think those are sufficient inducements
to hold out ? " asked Norma,
with a rather tremulous laugh.

Ah, that's for you to say. I couldn't
think of any others, or I'd have mentioned
them. You see, Miss Shaft, I knew very
well that if you consented to marry me it
wouldn't be for love."

Norma felt the blood mounting into her
cheeks. She had no right to take offence
at that perfectly true statement; yet she
thought that he might have been a little
less blunt with her. " It isn't because you
love me that you ask me to marry you,"
she remarked in a low voice.

Well, I'm not so sure of that ; I know
you are the only woman in the world whom
I would ask to marry me. I'm no great
believer in what people call love ; I had
rather a sickener years ago, when I was
a lad — but that's neither here nor there.

The question is whether you'll take me,
such as I am ? "

I wonder at your wishing it ! Surely it
is rather strange that you should wish for a
wife whom you only expect to take you for
the sake of your position and your money ! "

Not so very, considering the circumstances.
I don't want to pry into matters
which perhaps you wouldn't care to talk
about ; but my notion is that you may have
good reasons for marrying a man who hasa
certain amount of money. Well — here
I am. You don't dislike me ; and if you'll
give me the right to be of use to you and
take care of you — there's only one possible
way of giving me that right, don't you
see — you'll make me very happy and very
grateful."

Norma gave a long sigh. " I can't ! "
she exclaimed suddenly. " I wanted to
say yes — I thought you would ask me to
be your wife, and I had almost decided
that I would say yes ; and I suppose you
understand or guess it all. But it's impossible.

It's shameful and disgraceful, and I
can't do it ! "

Lord Loddondale had never seen her so
agitated before, and he did not quite grasp
her meaning. It was true that he had
understood or guessed what might probably
be her motives for accepting his offer ; but
these were not in his eyes shameful or
disgraceful.

I don't think you ought to marry me
if you love another man," he said, after a
few moments of grave reflection. " When
you told me that you had refused Walter,
I took it for granted that it was because
you didn't care for him, and I looked upon
him as out of the running, though he cares
for you as much as ever. But if there was
any other reason "

There was no other reason," interrupted
Norma. " I could not care in that way
for Lord Walter ; because, from what I
know of him, I don't think it is in him to
care very much either for me or for anybody
else."

Hem ! — well, it isn't my business to
back bim up, I suppose, though I think
you are altogether wrong about him, and I
may claim to know him as well as you do.
But I was thinking that you might have
rejected him on account of his poverty,
and I want you to understand that he
won't be poor. It's a positive fact that,
unless I marry you, I shall never marry at
all ; so that Walter will be just as much
my heir as if he were my son. Under the
circumstances, I don't see how he can
reasonably refuse to be treated as my heir."

I never met any one like you, Lord
Loddondale ! " exclaimed Norma, half
laughing, half crying. " You are wonderfully
unselfish and generous ; and yet, do
you know, you are not very flattering tome.
What makes you think that I am so
eager for money ? "

Oh, I know you don't want it for
yourself. I've heard things — old Nell
Travers and others have told me — there's
no occasion to repeat them all. Only it

may come to pass that, some day or other,
you will need money badly, and then —
well, then you know, Miss Shaft, it won't
be a very pleasant thing for me to have to
stand and look on and feel that I mustn't
dare to offer any help to the person whom
I care most for in the world."

Norma held out her hand to him in
silence ; but when he grasped it with an
eager, questioning look, she shook her
head. " No," she said ; " it can't be. If
I were to do such a thing you would not
be able to help despising me, and you
would be right. But I am very grateful
to you — and I am very, very glad that you
don't love me."

But, as I told you, I'm not so sure of
that."

If you did love me you would be sure
of it. I am thankful that it isn't so,
because it would have made me very
unhappy to disappoint you. As it is, I
must disappoint others ; there's no help
for it."

She rose as she spoke ; but Lord Lod-condole
remained seated for a few more
seconds, stroking his chin meditatively.
Then he too got up, and, while he lighted
another cigarette, remarked —

"I'll tell you what, Miss Shaft, you
had better leave this business to me. I'll
make Mr. Shaft understand that the thing
couldn't come off because I was so beastly
exacting. ' Your daughter is willing todo
anything in reason or out of reason to
please you,' I shall say to him; 'but you
don't expect her to tell lies, I hope. If she
can't manage to fall in love with a man
who's as ugly as sin, and if the ugly man
won't marry her unless she falls in love
with him — why, it's pretty clear who is to
blame.' If that don't shut him up and
make him ashamed of himself, I don't
know what will."

Not many of us have the wit or the
opportunity to form an accurate judgment
of those with whom we habitually consort.
A considerable number of people knew

Lord Loddondale intimately and some of
them liked him ; but they would one and
all have laughed at the idea that there was
anything approaching to magnanimity or
Quixotry in his whole composition.

CHAPTER X.

"TO N. AND M."

Lord Loddoxdale was as good as his
word. When the ladies had retired to
bed, he had a brief conversation with Mr.
Shaft, by means of which he managed to
convince that aggrieved parent that Norma
had been more sinned against than sinning.
Xor did his generosity and forethought
end there ; for he avoided speaking a word
in private to Lady Spencer until after his
guests had departed on the following
morning ; so that she took leave of them
with undiminished good will, whispering to
Xor ma, " You must come and see me very
*on, my dear ! "

The latter felt that she had indeed been
mercifully dealt with and was full of

vol. in. 50

gratitude to her father, who, while they
were driving to the station, only remarked
with a sigh, "Loddondale spoke to me
last night. I confess I had hoped that he
would have letter news to give me."

I couldn't help it, papa," said Norma,
taking his hand, which was cold, notwithstanding
the heat of the summer sun.

Oh no ; you couldn't help it. You
were bound to tell him the truth, since he
insisted upon hearing it ; though surely he
might have known — but it doesn't signify,
I suppose he thinks I was so eager to bethe
father-in-law of a marquis that your
happiness was quite a secondary consideration
with me."

I am sure he doesn't think that,"
Norma declared.

It doesn't matter what he thinks,"
returned Mr. Shaft wearily.

And in that apathetic humour, which
was altogether foreign to his nature, he
remained for some time after their return
to London. He was in no way unkind to

his daughter; he neither reproached her
nor was impatient with her, as he had been
when he had tried in vain to get her to
marry Lord Walter ; but he did not seem
to care about having her with him and
would glance wistfully towards the door if
she looked for a few minutes into the study
where he sat all day long, with piles of
documents before him which he was not
perusing. She was almost sorry that he
had ceased to make those daily expeditions
into the City which had formerly kept him
so busy, though she could not but hope
that this meant an abandonment of speculation
on his part.

What it really did mean was that he was
afraid to venture so far from home. Once
in the street he was seized with a sudden
giddiness, and would have fallen if a
passer-by had not caught him as he
stumbled and helped him into a chemist's
shop. The attack passed off in a few
minutes ; but on the following day he had
a similar one, and after that he made up

his mind that it would not do for him to
overture himself. Besides, to tell the truth,
there was no longer anything to take him
to the City; for he had at present no
available sum large enough to be worth
speculating with. So he sat indoors from
morning to night and was thoroughly
miserable and depressed, never having
been accustomed to a sedentary life.

Norma was growing more and more
uneasy about him, perceiving plainly that
he was uneasy about himself, when she
received a note from Madge Shearman,
reminding her of her promise to pay a
visit to Brampton. "We have no inducements
to hold out, " Madge wrote ; "it
is duller than ditch-water here just now.
But Christopher thinks that you may be
disposed to take pity upon us in our
solitude."

Norma did not think it very likely that
her father would care to take advantage of
this invitation ; but she mentioned it to
him, and, rather to her surprise, he jumped

at it eagerly. " By all means let us go !
1 should like to see how things are looking
down at the old place, and a little country
air will do us both good. Write a line and
tell them we'll come as soon as they can
have us, Norma."

From that moment there was a decided
improvement both in his spirits and his
health ; so that a few clays later, while they
were travelling down to Stourshire, he even
began to talk about riding and wondered
whether Shearman had a quiet cob in his
stable, " suitable for an elderly and infirm
gentleman."

Sir Christopher had horses of all shapes
and sizes in his stable ; but Mr. Shaft did
not ask for the loan of any of them. He
was curiously languid and averse to exertion
of any kind ; but he enjoyed the change
and the quiet of the country.

Don't you bother yourself about me,"
he said to his host on the morning after his
arrival; "I can make myself quite happy
pottering about the garden and the conservatories.

Dear me ! what improvements
you have made, to be sure ! "

He took great interest in these improvements,
which some dispossessed owners
might have found it a little painful to contemplate.
Doubtless one of the reasons
why Mr. Shaft was so popular was that
he never grudged any man prosperity. Sir
Christopher, who had always liked him,
was touched by the cheerful, matter-of-course
way in which he accepted his altered
circumstances.

The poor old fellow is breaking up
fast," he told his wife ; "I shall be very
much surprised if he is alive this time next
year. And from what I heard in London,
I'm afraid he won't leave a large fortune
behind him. Well, I'm very glad we had
them down here. We must get them to
stay a few weeks with us, if they will."

Madge assented, but without much
cordiality. It had been at her husband's
suggestion that she had invited the Shaftos
to Brampton, and their presence was a

burden to her, easy though they were to
entertain. While in London, she had
made such inquiries as she had ventured to
make, and she was now pretty sure that
Lord Walter had proposed at Venice and
had been rejected. Also she knew, as
almost everybody did, that his brother had
become his rival, and that Mr. Shaft had
had losses, and that Norma was in danger
of being forced into a marriage which it
was impossible to suppose that she would
have contracted by her own free will. In
short, Lady Shearman's reading of the
situation was not very far removed from
being the true one ; and it made her feel
guilty and uncomfortable. Moreover, she
was horribly afraid lest Norma, who had
been welcomed with enthusiasm by every
cottager in the vicinity, should take it into
her head to cross-question Mr. Green, and
should thus find out more than it was
desirable for her to know. As some slight
safeguard against this danger, she took her
friend out in the carriage every day to call

upon the neighbours ; and on these occasions
the conversation was apt to languish.
Norma was evidently in low spirits, and
there were so many topics which could not
be prudently introduced.

One afternoon Norma begged to be
excused, alleging that she was tired and
that she had letters to write. So Madge
drove away without her ; and she ensconced
herself in a corner of the drawing-room
which had once been hers, and neglected
her correspondence, and, at variance withall
the habits and principles of her life,
gave way to an overwhelming sense of
dejection and self-pity. She had never
told herself plainly that her father would not
be with her much longer ; but she knew it ;
and she knew, too, that by refusing Lord
Loddondale's offer she had added greatly
to the cares that oppressed him. She did
not exactly blame herself for that, because
there are moral as well as physical impossibilities
; but she felt that her life had been
a failure, that she had done no particular

ixoocl to those whom she cared for and that
her own chance of happiness had, somehow
or other, slipped from her grasp. What
had that chance of happiness been ? Well,
she could lay her finger upon it, now that
it was only a memory. There had been a
certain evening — it was now just about a
year ago — when Walter Sinclair had come
to dinner, and there had been an afternoon
when she had visited his studio and had
criticized his statue of Saint Elizabeth.
She had seen — how could she help seeing
it ? — that he was attracted by her ; and if
he had really felt then as he afterwards
averred that he had from the first, she
might have loved him. But Madge had
come between them — Madge, who had
never cared for him, and for whom, as it
now appeared, he had not greatly cared —
and she had at once effaced herself. Perhaps
she had acted neither well nor wisely
in effacing herself. But then she remembered
the story about Bessie Green, the
incredible story which she believed, notwithstanding

its incredibility, and she
determined to think no more about what
might have been.

She seated herself at the writing-table
and began a letter to Lady Adelaide Tomkinson,
who had written querulously to
ask how things could be kept going when
one's fellow workers rushed out of town in
the month of June. But before she had
reached the end of the first sentence she
was interrupted by the opening of the door
behind her and the butler's solemn voice
announcing " Mr. Morley."

The critic, philosopher and poet entered
the room with slow steps, as his habit was.
He had a smile upon his lips and a little
volume bound in white vellum under his
arm. He said, " I am indeed fortunate !
I hoped that I might see you this afternoon,
Miss Shaft ; but I scarcely ventured to hope
that I should find you alone."

You are more flattering to me than to
Lady Shearman," remarked Norma, as she
shook hands with him.

Mr. Morley lowered himself into an armchair
and sighed comfortably. " I admit
it," he replied. " Lady Shearman is in
many ways a delightful and interesting
study ; but she is so unlike you as to be
almost your opposite, and opposites cannot
be made to blend."

Can't they ? " said Norma absently.

He shook his head. " Quite impossible !
Therefore opposites should not be placed in
juxtaposition, except with a view to contrast.
Now in conversation one doesn't
want contrast ; one wants harmony."

Norma thought that, if that were the
case, one wasn't particularly likely to get
it just then ; but she did her best to gratify
the fastidious Basil by listening patiently
to his sententious talk. She was always
sorry for him, knowing how few people
could endure his company for five minutes
without becoming exasperated to the extent
of quite forgetting their manners ; besides
which, she was at that moment willing to
listen to any one who was at all likely to
make her laugh.

It was with no such intention that Mr.
Morley proceeded to enlarge upon the
salient features of Lady Shearman's
character. He had studied her closely, he
said, and for a time with real curiosity ;
but he was bound to admit that, since her
return from abroad, he had been disappointed
in her. She seemed, if he might
so express himself, to be becoming domesticated,
to be losing originality and initiative,
to be sinking into acquiescence in what
ought by rights to be an intolerable fate
for her. " If she had a baby, or babies, I
should despair of her. She would never do
anything startling then."

What startling things do you expect
her to do in the absence of babies ? " Norma
inquired.

Ah, there it is ! One doesn't know —
one can't tell. What limits can one put to
the possible vagaries of a wayward, wilful
woman who has a jealous tyrant for her
husband ? "

I don't think you ought to speak like

that about people who are your friends as
well as mine," said Norma.

But, dear Miss Shaft, you know that
I do not exaggerate. As for their being
my friends, I may perhaps flatter myself
that I possess Lady Shearman's friendship ;
but Sir Christopher does not love me.
Latterly he has been so good as to tolerate
my presence ; but during the winter I used
really to be afraid sometimes that he would
assault me. A jealous fancy, for which, as
need scarcely tell you, there never was
the slightest ground."

Norma could not help saying that it was
quite unnecessary to assure her of that ;
whereupon he hoisted himself up in his
chair and bowed, as if she had paid him
;i well-merited compliment. Presently, he
held out the vellum-bound volume, which
he had been fondling all this time.

At last," said he, "I have the satisfaction
of placing my poor collection of
sonnets in your hands. T have been longer
than I intended to be in delivering them

over to the printers ; but I have a horror of
haste, and perhaps the delay is not to he
regretted, since it has enabled me to recast
my design and to give it a more definite
character. Contrasts, as I was saying just
now, are to be deprecated in conversation ;
but in literature they are effective. The
essence of this little work is contrast — contrast
between two types of womanhood.
Every line in it has been inspired by one
or other of the ladies whom I have attempted
to depict, and I have therefore dedicated
the whole to them. The fly-leaf, you
see, bears the inscription, ' To N. and M.' '

Does that mean nobody in particular,
according to the precedent of the Church
Catechism ? " inquired Norma.

"How can you ask such a question?"
exclaimed the poet reproachfully. " I do
not care to admit the world at large into
my secrets ; but surely to you the initials
must speak for themselves. If you will
read the third sonnet, you will see yourself
reflected as in a mirror. Your modesty

might possibly prevent you from recognizing
the portrait ; but I really do not think
that you could fail to recognize Lady
Shearman in — for example — the seventh,
ninth, and tenth."

Norma glanced at the pages referred to,
and gathered that she was c< a star, unconscious
of its radiance pure ; " also that
Mr. Morley's " storm vext soul " was accustomed,
when whelmed in surging waves
of " doubt and dark despair," to steer by
her light towards some destination which
was not specified. After that, it was not
surprising to find that Madge was a Will-o'-the-wisp,
luring the way-worn wanderer
with " flickering flames that faint and fail."
In addition to this undesirable characteristic,
it appeared that she possessed that
of " the tiny stone that starts the avalanche,"
as well as that of " the child who, half in
malice, half in ignorance," places a log
across the track of the approaching express
and subsequently " o'er the wreck and
carnage lightly laughs."

Norma thought it highly improbable
that any child, however malicious or
ignorant, would act in the manner described
; but she confined her criticisms to
the remark that neither N. nor M. seemed
to be treated by their delineator as responsible
beings.

I think," replied Mr. Morley, with an
indulgent smile, " that you will require to
read the sonnets a little more carefully
before you can quite enter into their
meaning. I have endeavoured to be lucid ;
but there are thoughts which no language
can render absolutely obvious, and a poet
should not only express his thoughts, but
make his readers think. In prose I always
adopt a more superficial style. By the
way, did you read my contribution to the
Omniscient Review ? "

Yes," answered Norma, " I did ; and
there were some thoughts — or rather statements
— in it which were not quite so lucid
as I should have liked them to be. I have
always meant to ask you about them."

We need not, I presume, put the dots
upon the i's," said Mr. Morley. " No
doubt you allude to one statement in
particular, and I dare say I shall not be
very far wrong if I assume that your
attention was drawn to it in consequence
of something that you may have heard
from Lady Shearman ? "

Norma, after a momentary hesitation,
signified assent.

I quite calculated upon that. I will
confess that I sent the article to you because
it contained the statement in question.
Nay, more ; I will confess that I
wrote the article chiefly in order to
make that statement; and from what
I have since heard, I rejoice to think
that I attained my object in so doing.
My object," he explained, with a sweet
smile, " was to preserve a star from
falling."

But one is not justified in telling a
falsehood to preserve the entire firmament
from falling," returned Norma, losing

VOL. in. 51

patience. " Was the statement true ?
That is what I wanted to ask you."

Now, Mr. Morley could not, of course,
know it to be a fact that Lord Walter had
married Bessie Green ; but he really
believed it to be a fact ; so he shook his
head and said, " I am afraid there can be
no doubt about it."

But can you prove it ? " persisted
Norma. " It is nothing to me ; only I
don't think any one has a right to make
insinuations, unless he is able, if called
upon, to ' put the dots on the i's,' as you
say."

This was a little uncomfortable for Mr.
Morley, who however was willing to tell
all that he knew. But he had not advanced
beyond preliminaries when Madge came in
from her drive, thus probably saving him
from a severe rebuke.

CHAPTER XL

THE POET SPEAKS.

Many of Basil Morley's (unpublished)
erotic ballads were sufficiently impassioned
in sentiment and diction to satisfy the
most ardent souls ; but their author was
not himself a man whose passions or
emotions were very strong. His was the
calm of a refined stoic ; he recognized in
his own character — and it was no fault of
his if less clear-sighted people failed to do
so — divers personal traits which are associated
with the names of Marcus Aurelius,
Dante and Petrarch. Also he thought it
not unlikely that Plato might, as regarded
certain matters, have felt very much as he
did. He shrank from the petty cares and
ties which belong to matrimony ; and

although, for purposes of inspiration, a
Beatrice or a Laura might be serviceable
to him, he would have preferred worshipping
her from afar to living under the
same roof with her. However, it had been
his good or ill fortune to be born in the
nineteenth century, and one must belong
to one's period. That indeed was one of
his maxims, and in pursuance of it he had
resolved to honour Miss Shaft by asking
her to share his lot. He had fully intended
to make his wishes known in the
course of the interview recorded in the
last chapter; but it always took him a
long time to come to his point, and on this
occasion he had been interrupted, as has
been mentioned, by the entrance of Lady
Shearman before he had so much as
approached it. Thus he was compelled to
postpone to some future opportunity the
avowal which he hoped that she would
receive with pleased surprise.

As it chanced, he was not kept waiting
many days. The cottage inhabited by

Mrs. Morley and her son stood almost
within a stone's throw of the high-road ;
and one afternoon, the poet, who was
wandering aimlessly about his restricted
domain, saw the well-known Shearman
barouche pass rapidly between the hedgerows.
Having satisfied himself that it had
only one occupant, and that that occupant
wore a bonnet which he had previously
admired upon Lady Shearman's head, he
resolved to take advantage of the occasion
and at once set out to walk across the fields
to Brampton. He had just as much of doubt
as to his success as was needed to give him
an agreeable sensation of excitement.
That Norma appreciated him he was sure.
She was, in fact, the only person in the
neighbourhood who did — probably the only
one who was capable of so doing. As for her
loving him, well, he was greatly mistaken in
her if love with her would not mean something
quite different from what it would
mean with Madge Shearman, for instance.
Esteem and admiration must necessarily

in Norma's case be the basis of any such
sentiment. He would not have been at all
surprised at her having loved Lord Walter
Sinclair ; because Lord Walter, by reason
of his artistic achievements, was entitled to
admiration. To Miss Shaft's esteem he
was not entitled, and it had been necessary
to tell her so. That, no doubt, had disposed
of any chance that the young sculptor
might ever have had. Norma would not
be Norma if she could love a man so
calculating and cynical. Basil, on the
other hand, had led a blameless life — or, at
least, if he had been guilty of some trifling
lapses from the path of an austere morality
and philosophy, these had not been such as
she was likely ever to hear about. Therefore
he swung his stick jauntily as he
stepped through the hayfields and composed
an anticipatory poem, descriptive of
the stooping of his star through the storm
and stress of something or other, and the
consequent happy and elevating results as
regarded the poet's mind.

But the poet's mind was terribly vexed
when, on striking across the lawn towards
the front door at Brampton, he saw a
certain high dog-cart, which he knew only
too well, drawing near from the opposite
direction. Few people, according to Basil's
philosophy, were worth hating, just as few
were worth loving ; but he really did
rather hate Miss Travers, who, it must be
confessed, had lost no opportunity of
making herself hateful to him, and that he
should encounter her at this juncture was
especially unfortunate.

But apparently that was not the light in
which Miss Travers regarded their meeting.
The moment that she espied Mr. Morley
she began shouting at him and waving
her whip. Then she quickened her pace,
dashed up the drive, and checked her huge
grey horse so abruptly that she almost
threw him upon his haunches.

Well, this is luck ! " she exclaimed.
I've sent my groom down to the village
to do a commission, and I was wondering

who I could get to hold my horse for me
while I ran in and saw Norma. You'll do
capitally. Have you rung the bell yet ? "

No doubt there are plenty of grooms
in the stable-yard " began Basil.

Oh, bother ! the stables are a quarter
of a mile away, and I'm in a hurry."

Then I dare say one of the footmen
"

Bless the man ! you don't suppose I
would trust a flunkey to hold a three
hundred guinea horse, do you ? Besides,
he would be in far too great a funk to
attempt it. Not that there's anything to
be frightened about ; for the grey is as
quiet as a sheep so long as he isn't startled
or fidgeted. All you've got to do is to
stand at his head. I won't keep you more
than ten minutes."

Meanwhile, the door had been opened,
and Miss Travers, having ascertained that
Norma was at home, ran nimbly up the
steps, leaving the reluctant Basil in charge
of an animal whose looks he did not half

like. " Mind he don't strike out at you
with his fore-legs," she called back over
her shoulder ; "he sometimes does."

How the deuce am I to prevent him ? "
returned poor Basil, whose stoicism was
apt to fail him in moments of personal
peril. But to this very natural question
he received no reply, while he was disagreeably
conscious of the supercilious
amusement of the menials in the doorway.

Miss Travers entered the drawing-room
chuckling. " Norma, my dear," said she,
you may thank me, if you like, for doing
you a good turn. I found Morley-parley
in the act of ringing the bell, and with the
greatest presence of mind, I asked him to
hold my horse for me. I know exactly
what he will do ; he will try to propitiate
the grey by stroking his nose — and then
he'll have some healthy exercise."

What a shame ! " exclaimed Norma.
If you had no pity for him, you might
have thought of your own property. The
chances are that when you go out, you will

be punished by finding your horse staked
and your dog-cart broken to pieces. I will
ring and send somebody to relieve poor
Mr. Morley."

For Heaven's sake, don't ! No injury
will be done to anybody or anything, except
the gravel, which may be a little cut up ;
Morley-parley will be dragged about and
agitated, and will get so hot that he will
have to run home to his mother and change
his clothes, and you will be spared a visit
from him, that's all. Now, Norma, I
haven't much time to lose ; so you must
excuse my proceeding straight to business.
I want to know what's wrong between
you and Walter Sinclair."

Nothing at all," answered Norma.

Oh yes, there is ; I know a good deal,
if I don't know everything. I know you
have refused him, and I know you have
refused his brother too. Of course you
couldn't marry Loddondale — I never supposed
you would, and it was like his impudence
to ask you — but why you should

have turned Walter away, I can't understand."


For the simplest of all reasons," Norma
replied.

So he says ; but then I don't happen
to believe it. You know, Norma, you are
not a very good hand at keeping a secret.
You are too honest to be able to disguise
your feelings, and anybody who knows you
and cares for you as I do can read you
like a book. The other day, when I spoke
to you about Walter at the bazaar, it was
as plain as plain could be that you were
displeased with him about something, and
he himself hasn't the slightest idea what it
is ; so "

"Has he sent you to ask me?" interrupted
Norma, with a heightened colour.

Not he ! He has a poor opinion of my
skill, and a pretty high one of his own.
For all that, I am right ; and I'm determined
to get to the bottom of this misunderstanding
; for a misunderstanding it certainly is.
Come ! who has been traducing him to you ?

I would lay a trifle of odds that it is Madge
Shearman."

This inquisition threatened to become
embarrassing. " One can't help feeling a
little provoked with a person whose friends
are so officious," said Norma, laughing.
Surely, when one has received an offer of
marriage and has declined it, with a due
sense of the compliment, the matter might
be allowed to drop. If you offered me a
cup of tea and I said ' No, thank you,' you
wouldn't keep on pestering me to give
reasons for not drinking what I didn't
want."

That is all very fine," returned Miss
Travers ; " but you won't put me off with
false analogies, my dear. You have got
some mistaken idea about Walter Sinclair
into your head, and the sooner you get rid
of it the better. It is for your own sake
that I say so," she added significantly.
u As for Walter, he is a very good fellow,
but he is a man ; and men always console
themselves sooner or later."

It is by no means improbable that Miss
Travers would have succeeded in breaking
down Norma's reticence, had she been suffered
to continued the attack : but now
there arose from outside the house a hubbub
which suddenly diverted her thoughts into
another channel.

Come and look at him ! — come and
look at him ! " she exclaimed gleefully ; " he
is having a rare time of it now, I know ! "

Norma followed her into the hall,
where the butler and two footmen were
discovered leaning out of the window in
full enjoyment of a struggle which they
did not feel it to be any business of theirs
to share. Outside, Mr. Morley could be
discerned, plunging wildly in unison with
the plunges of the grey horse, who was
backing away from him, and whom he was
addressing in alternate terms of endearment
and abuse. " Woa then ! — Stand still, can't
you ! — Poor fellow ! — Confound you, you
ugly brute ! "— together with apostrophes
of a more emphatic and profane character.

Miss Travers laughed delightedly.
Did you ever see such a duffer in all
your born days ? " she ejaculated. Then
she threw open the door and emerged
upon the steps. " Stick to him ! " she
shouted. " Mind what you're about ! — don't
let him back on to the flower-beds. Man
alive ! can't you stand at a horse's head
without fretting him into a fever ? "

If the horse was in a fever, so was the
poet. His hat had fallen off, the perspiration
was running down his cheeks, he was
gasping for breath, and would doubtless
have cast the recalcitrant grey loose long
ere this, had he not been painfully
aware of the butler and the footmen. To
these spectators had now been added Miss
Travers and the lady of his heart :
obviously therefore it behoved him to
continue the fight while he had a leg to
stand upon. The unfortunate part of it
was that he didn't in the least know what
he ought to do, and that the horse was
perfectly aware of his incapacity. Also

he was in mortal terror lest that evil brute
should (in accordance with Miss Travers's
prediction) strike out with his fore-leg
and kick him in the stomach.

Norma, whose nature had in it no trace
of that element of cruelty which is common
to the great mass of men and women, was
not much diverted by a spectacle which
made Miss Travers laugh till the tears ran
down her cheeks. " Go and help him,
Nell," she pleaded. " He is doing his best ;
and it isn't fair to make him so ridiculous."

Tm not making him ridiculous," Miss
Travers declared ; " goodness knows he
can do that for himself, without anybody's
assistance ! "

However, as she was always ready to do
anything in reason to oblige Norma, she
descended the steps and made for the scene
of action, where indeed her presence was
required. For the grey, who had probably
begun his antics merely with a view to a
little amusement, had now become frightened
or irritated, and just as his mistress approached

he suddenly reared. The luckless
Basil was dragged off his legs, and, losing
his balance, fell flat upon his back, uttering
a screech of alarm. When he arose, the
grey, though snorting and quivering, had
ceased to jump about, while Miss Travers
had already scrambled into her dog-cart
and had taken the reins.

Now let this be a lesson to you' said
she, shaking her finger solemnly at him
from the driving-seat. " If you hadn't
played the fool you wouldn't have been
rolled over in the dust. You're always
trying to be clever ; and see what comes of
it ! Be advised by me, Mr. Morley, and
don't you try to be clever any more.
Good-bye, Norma ; come and see me some
day when you can come alone."

So away she went, and the butler gravely
handed Mr. Morley his hat, while one of
the footmen brushed him down. It had
been a disconcerting episode and one which
would have diverted ninety-nine men out
of a hundred from their purpose ; but

Basil, perhaps, represented the exception
which proves the rule. After he had been
taken into the drawing-room by Norma
and had had some tea, and had said a few
of the bitterest things that he could think
of about Nell Travers, he began to feel
himself again, insomuch that he recalled to
memory certain flowery speeches which he
had rehearsed during his walk. These he
now deliberately enunciated, much to the
surprise of Norma, who at first did not in
the least understand what he was driving
at. But by degrees he condescended to
make himself more intelligible ; so that at
length she had to inform him, as gently
and considerately as she could, that he
must think no more of an alliance which
was altogether out of the question.

And now it was Mr. Morley's turn to be
dull of comprehension. " I have startled
you," said he, with a sweet, sad smile.
You were unprepared for this ; you have
regarded me — and indeed that is very
natural — as a lonely man and one unfitted

vol. in. 52

for domesticity. But when you have
thought the matter over quietly your fears,
I trust, will vanish. You will realize that
I have not acted hastily — I never act
hastily — that I should not have taken this
step had I not been convinced that in doing
so I am consulting your happiness as well
as my own, and that, although to the
outer world I may appear to be a cynic,
yet "

I assure you," interrupted Norma,
"that I have not, and never could have
had, any such thoughts. I am very sorry
that you should have made this — this
extraordinary mistake, and I don't wish to
seem unkind ; but I really can't let you
imagine that there is the remotest possibility
of my ever marrying you."

Mr. Morley's countenance grew dark.
It seems, then," said he, " that my warnings
have been in vain. Your heart has
been stolen from me by the man who less
than a year ago was ready to throw himself
at the feet of a woman immeasurably your

inferior ! I do not blame him for that —
few of us can dominate our passions, or
say why we love, or cease to love — I do
not blame him for that, although I think it
shows his inability to appreciate you ; but
I do say that a man who tried to win your
love while his own deserted wife was still
alive is unworthy to possess it."

You are assuming what you have no
right to assume, Mr. Morley, and I shall
not take the trouble to contradict you,"
answered Norma coldly ; " but please leave
other people's characters alone. That story
is probably quite untrue, and whether it is
true or false, I don't wish to hear any more
about it."

Yet you questioned me about it the
last time that I was here, and questioned
me very eagerly too," observed Mr. Morley.

I asked you whether you could prove
that what you had stated was a fact — and
it appeared that you couldn't."

Mr. Morley rose and drew himself up to
his full height. " If proofs are what you

require," said he, " you shall have them ; I
will make it my business to obtain them.
Of my own hopes I will for the present
say no more. I can bear to lose you, if
so it must be; but what I cannot and will
not bear is to surrender you to one who
deserves, not your love, but your contempt."


You purposely misunderstand me ! "
exclaimed Norma. " I want no proofs ; I
am not concerned in the matter. I merely
wished to point out to you that you had no
business to state as a fact what you didn't
know to be a fact."

But the haughty Basil took no notice of
her disclaimer. " Farewell, Miss Shaft,"
said he ; " I will not see you again until I
can tell you that I have accomplished my
quest."

With that he strode out of the room,
leaving Norma to repent of her error in
judgment. This idiot would doubtless stir
up all the details of a scandal which might
very well have been left alone ; he would

cause infinite annoyance to people with
whom she had no quarrel ; and, worst of
all, he would be pretty sure to let everybody
know that his exertions were undertaken
on her account and for her sake.
She could only trust that his natural
stupidity would render those exertions
abortive.

CHAPTER XII.

REBUS IN ARDUIS.

To obtain proof positive of a genuine
marriage is not always the easy matter
that it ought to be, while the futility of
seeking for evidence of an imaginary one
is generally slow to dawn upon the anxious
inquirer. Mr. Morley, therefore, had
undertaken a task which was sure to keep
him busy for a considerable length of time,
and, while he was engaged upon it, Norma
reaped the benefit of the sentence of
banishment from her presence which he
had chosen to pass upon himself. For a
day or two she Was uneasy, expecting
always to see him appear in triumph, with
a copy of a marriage certificate in his
hands ; but one nail drives out another

and she had at this time many subjects for
troubled thought besides that of Basil
Morley and his possible vagaries. Her
father's health and spirits had improved a
little, but only a little. He had become
very quiet and silent and did not seem to
care much about seeing his old friends, nor
indeed about doing anything, except sitting
in the sun with a newspaper upon his
knees which he did not read. At the same
time, he was very anxious to remain where
he was. He grew cross and agitated when
Norma suggested to him that their visit
had lasted long enough and that they
ought to be thinking about returning
home.

What's your hurry ? " he asked.
There's nothing to be done at home
when we get there, and our friends here
don't want to be rid of us yet, I believe. I
thought you would enjoy having a quiet
time at Brampton."

Norma enjoyed it just about as much as
one enjoys the loan of a horse which has

once been one's own property. However,
she was glad to do anything that would
please him, and the hospitality of the
Sherman seemed to be proffered in all
sincerity. Madge was reassured by the
departure from the Shaft Arms of Mr.
Green, who, being now in independent circumstances,
had removed himself and his
belongings to a villa on the outskirts of
the assize town, which was situated on the
other side of the county. Neither she nor
Norma ever mentioned Lord Walter Sinclair's
name ; and it was in vain that Nell
Travers sought an opportunity of renewing
the cross-examination in which she had
been interrupted.

So the days passed on, without any
special incident to mark them, until the
middle of July, when Mr. Shaft received a
letter which startled him out of the state of
lethargy into which he had lately fallen.
This communication was from a City
magnate with whom he was acquainted,
and who, in view of certain confidential

inquiries made of him by Mr. Shaft a few
weeks previously, " thought it only right "
to mention rumours which were in circulation,
and which, he feared, were only too
well founded. Mr. Shaft said nothing to
Norma about these rumours, but he told
her that he had business matters to attend
to and that they must go home immediately.


Accordingly they left for London the
same afternoon, and, late as it was when
they arrived, Mr. Shaft drove straight
from the station into the City, where, as
might have been anticipated, he saw
nobody and heard nothing. He came
back to dinner very tired, but less dejected
than Norma had expected him to be.

"There has been a crisis in financial
circles," he vouchsafed to inform her ; " but
the evening papers speak hopefully about
it. I shall see Lammergeier tomorrow
and hear what he has to say. Lammergeier
has plenty of enemies who would be only
too glad to think that he was hard hit ;

bat we may take their assertions for what
they are worth. It would require something
more than a temporary crisis to bring
Lammergeier to serious grief, I imagine."

But if he did come to grief? " suggested
Norma.

If he did — well, even if he did — but
there's no need to anticipate anything so
improbable. I have been out of sorts lately,
and that has made me nervous, fancying
all kinds of absurd things. The fact is
that during the winter I wasn't quite as
prudent as I ought to have been, and
perhaps I shouldn't have allowed the
management of my affairs to pass out of
my own hands as I did. But I'll put all
that straight now ; I won't delay about
it any longer ; and if Lammergeier is
affronted, I can't help it. But I don't
think he will have any right to be
affronted. I shall tell him that I'm getting
to be an old man, and that I naturally want
to know how I stand, and so forth. I suppose
he'll see the reasonableness of that, eh?"

Will it signify very much if lie
doesn't ? " asked Norma. " If you have
trusted him with money that belongs to
you, you can claim it when you please
without giving him any cause for complaint."


That's as may be. I am under great
obligations to Lammergeier, and at a time
like this I shouldn't wish him to think that
I had lost confidence in him. I would
rather submit to a little further anxiety
than seem to bolt like a rat from a sinking
ship."

But on the ensuing morning* Mr. Shaft
did not feel well enough to go into the
City, as he had intended doing. He woke
with a headache, and, after perusing the
money article in the Times, which, though
somewhat alarmist in tone, and recording
a heavy fall in almost all securities, contained
no such allusions as he had secretly
feared that he might see there, he decided
that he would remain at home. " After
all, twenty-four hours can't make much

difference, one way or the other," he said
half apologetically to Norma, who guessed
that he shrank from making demands upon
the man whom, as he had once confessed,
he had trusted too much.

It was as well that he did remain at
home, for he would have gained nothing
by an expedition eastwards. Soon after
luncheon the first edition of the evening
paper was brought to him, and the moment
that he opened it his eyes fell upon a
paragraph headed, " Failure of Baron
Lammergeier, M.P."

According to the newspaper, this intelligence
would not come as a surprise to the
initiated, and, truth to tell, it scarcely
came as a surprise to Mr. Shaft, who
nevertheless was within an ace of fainting
away when confronted with it. Norma,
who was with him at the time, made him
lie down, and brought him a glass of wine,
which presently revived him. She wanted
to send for the doctor, but that he would
not hear of.

I was startled for the moment — anybody
would have been startled," said he,
sitting up ; " but I'm all right again now.
We must keep our wits about us and not
take fright at shadows. Poor Learners
failure is a blow to me of course,
only, as I was telling you yesterday, it
doesn't imply — it doesn't imply — why
should it, you know ? I never had any
share in his business. I couldn't even tell
you exactly what his business was."

He rambled on in this way for a minute
or two. Xorma did not very well understand
what he was talking about, but she
tried to dissuade him from hurrying off to
Grosvenor Place, as he declared that he
would do. The utmost that she could
accomplish, however — and that was not
easy — was to induce him to wait until the
carriage could be ready to take him.
During the interval he paced impatiently
up and down the room, no longer concealing
his agitation, though he kept on
repeating that there was no cause for

alarm, that his affairs were quite distinct
from Lammergeier's affairs, and a good
deal more to the like effect.

He was absent for rather more than an
hour, and when he returned his face told
its own tale — a tale for which Norma was
quite prepared. He did not say much, he
seemed to be stupefied, but when she asked
him whether they were ruined he made
a sign of assent. After a time he explained
more fully what had occurred. He had
intrusted his entire fortune to Baron Lam-merrier,
and not a penny of it was now
forthcoming. " Lammergeier made some
investments for me which appeared to be
safe. I certainly understood that they were
safe — but it has turned out that they were
not. And he says I gave him carte blanche.
Very likely I did — I can't remember. My
memory is completely gone."

He drew a memorandum-book from his
pocket and tried to enter into particulars,
but these were utterly unintelligible to his
hearer, who begged him not to worry

himself with them. Of what value indeed
were particulars ? The evident fact was
that Baron Lammergeier had possessed
himself of Mr. Shaft's property and had
lost that drop in the ocean of his own losses.
She had foreseen this catastrophe, and
was amazed at the comparative calmness
with which her father submitted to it, not
knowing that it had also been foreseen by
him.

Have we absolutely nothing left, papa?"
she asked at length.

Absolutely nothing ? " he repeated
vaguely. " Well, I think there's a trifle
left, but I can't be sure. Whatever it maybe,
it isn't enough for us to live upon."

Then, all of a sudden, he broke out
into bitter lamentations and self-reproaches.
He had been warned again and again, it
seemed, but he had refused to listen. He
had not believed that Lammergeier was a
dishonest man — scarcely believed it even
now. Perhaps, after all, Lammergeier had
not been to blame. " At any rate he declares

that be wasn't. He was very busy and
could only see me for a few minutes,
though I bad a lone talk with bis wife.
He says I ought to put a brave face upon
misfortune, as be does. A brave face,
that's easily said ! He has years of life
before him, and with bis talents and opportunities
be may make another fortune ;
but I'm only a useless old man, with one
foot in the grave. It isn't for myself that
I care ; I'm ready to go into the workhouse
tomorrow. Bat what is to become of you,
Norma ? — ah, my poor child, what is to
become of you ? "

He held out his trembling hands to her,
and the tears which had gathered in his
faded eyes brimmed over and ran down his
cheeks.

Well, it was no very difficult matter to
console and comfort him. He was so
broken down, and his brain was so confused
that he could not think of more than one
thing at a time, and when he found that
Norma was neither angry nor borrorstruck,

he grew almost cheerful again . Possibly,
too, it was something of a relief to him to
know that the worst that could happen had
happened and was over. He had no plans
for the future, nor any ideas that Norma
could gather. From that moment he
surrendered himself into her hands and
agreed passively to everything that she
suggested. They could dispose of the
house, oh yes; that would bring in something,
no doubt — and the furniture, and the
carriage and horses. She didn't think that
they would starve then ? "Was there any
money in the bank? Yes, he supposed so.
But perhaps the best way would be for her
to look through his papers. He would give
her his keys after dinner. He thought
he would go and lie down until dinner-time,
if she didn't mind.

He disposed of his dinner with a very
fair appetite, and for the benefit of the
servants talked about commonplaces much
as usual. When his daughter and he
were left alone, he took her into his study

vol. m. 53

and made her sit down at the writing-table.


Now, my dear," said he, " you had
better look into things for yourself. You
will find all you want in the top drawer —
my pass-book and my cheque-book and a
few memoranda ; I have no head left for
figures."

So saying, he sank down into an armchair,
and in a very few minutes was fast
asleep.

With the materials at her disposal,
Norma was not able to arrive at any clear
comprehension of her father's financial
position that night, though she worked
hard until long after he had gone to bed.
But she wrote to his bankers, and in the
course of a few days she made out that
they would henceforth have an income of
something under four hundred pounds a
year, which amount would of course be
considerably added to if they were able tolet
the house in Upper Belgrave Street.
That was not absolute ruin ; but to people

of their tastes and habits it was so very
like it, that Norma's heart sank at the
thought of what lay before them.

To her father however she spoke of the
future with cheerfulness and confidence.
For the next few months they would have
to be very careful and economical, but
there was a good chance of their letting
the house in the autumn, and they might
count with certainty upon doing so for
the ensuing season. Meanwhile, the first
thing to be done was to get rid of the
servants and the carriage and settle themselves
down somewhere in quiet lodgings.
And one morning she announced to him
that these quiet lodgings had been discovered.
She had made an expedition
down Chelsea way and had been lucky
enough to hit upon a set of rooms near
Cheyne Walk which were cheap and clean,
and were kept by a respectable old woman
who stated that she knew how to cook.
And if she doesn't, I can give her some
hints" Norma observed. To all this Mr.

Shaft listened placidly, nodding assent
and seeming to regard the whole situation
from a detached point of view, as though
It did not specially concern him. " What
a head you have, Norma ! " he would
exclaim admiringly from time to time, but
this was almost the only comment that he
made upon her proceedings. As if to
emphasize the completeness of his abdication,
he took to spending the greater part
of the day in the drawing-room, where he
dozed over the newspapers while she wrote
the letters which had to be written and
transacted the business which had to be
transacted in the study, which he no longer
cared to enter. She was thus engaged
one afternoon, when she was somewhat
abruptly intruded upon by a lady who had
declined to accept the words " not at home "
in their conventional sense.

Mrs. Lammergeier looked pale and sad.
She did not take the hand which Norma
extended to her, but said, without any
preface, " You understand now why I

didn't come to see you before. I was
ashamed; I knew it was too late to save you r
and it would have been too disgraceful to
go on pretending to be your friend. Yet
I was your friend, as far as I could be ; I
warned you — more than that I couldn't do.
But the fact remains that your father has
been robbed, and that my husband is the
thief."

Norma certainly believed that such was
the fact ; still her heart bled for poor Mrs.
Lammergeier, whose humiliation she understood,
and who at least had had no hand
in the robbery. " That is saying a great
deal too much," she answered. " I know
very little about papa's speculations, but I
suppose that if Baron Lammergeier had
been successful, he would have been
successful too. After all, Baron Hammers
is just as much ruined as we are."

But Mrs. Lammergeier shook her head.
Oh no, he is not ruined ; he is only
bankrupt. He can live very comfortably
upon my fortune, and I dare say it won't

be long before he makes another for himself.
I can't explain the morality of men
like Hermann. He is just as much a thief
as if he had picked your father's pocket —
and there are others besides your father.
But none of them, I believe, have a legal
claim against him. and he doesn't blame
himself. If it were worth while, I could
perhaps convince you that he is in some
queer sort of way conscientious. But I
didn't come here to make excuses for
him."

She did not at once state why she had
come. She consented to sit down, after
she had been repeatedly begged to do so,
and then asked a few questions in a timid,
hesitating way. Apparently she was aware
that Mr. Shaft was in a precarious state
of health, and she shuddered when she
heard that it was proposed to remove him
shortly to lodgings in Chelsea.

But it will kill him ! " she exclaimed ;
he will never be able to get on without
servants to wait upon him, or any of the

little luxuries to which he has been
accustomed all his life."

We have no choice," observed Norma
rather coldly ; after which there was a long
period of silence.

It was broken by Mrs. Lammergeier,
who said, " Miss Shaft, you are always
kind. You were very kind to me last year,
when I didn't need kindness nearly as
much as I do now. Will you do one more
small thing for me ? — if it is only to show
that you forgive me for being the wife of
the man who has brought all this misery
upon you."

I will, if I can," answered Norma.

You can, if you will. My money is my
own and I can spend it as I please. I can't
pay the whole, or anything like the whole
of my husband's debts, but I can do something.
Will you let me pay a little part
of what we owe you ? "

Norma shook her head. " That is
impossible, Mrs. Lammergeier ; I am really
grateful to you for making the offer, but it

would be quite out of the question for us to
accept it."

Ah, don't be so bard ! " pleaded Mrs.
Lammergeier, with tears in her eyes. " I
am not asking you to accept a gift, I am
only asking you to take back a part of
what is your own. The law would entitle
you to demand it, if the law hadn't been
formed for the benefit of swindlers. Think
of your father ;. you can't, surely, have the
heart to make him suffer for the sins of
others."

But Norma held out firmly against these
and a great many more entreaties. She
tried to word her refusal as considerately
as possible, and to explain that her father
was not reduced to such extreme straits as
to require pecuniary help ; but Mrs. Lam-merrier
was not to be deceived.

I understand," said she, with a deep
sigh, as she rose. " You would rather
starve than take a penny which could be
said to belong in any way to Hermann.
Perhaps you are right ; perhaps if I were

in your place, I should feel as you do.
But you make me very miserable. Goodbye,
Miss Shaft ; will you shake hands
with me for the last time ? "

Norma put her arms round the unhappy
woman's neck and kissed her. " I am not
going to say good-bye for the last time,"
she declared, " because I hope you will
come and see me when we are settled in
Chelsea''

No," answered Mrs. Lammergeier, " I
shall never see you again ; I couldn't bear
it — and I know you cannot wish to see me.
If you ever think about me, think about
me as one who is more wretched than you
are, however wretched you may be."

Norma had to let her go. In truth Mrs.
Lammergeier's trouble did not admit of
consolatory suggestions. Possibly she loved
her rascally husband ; possibly she hated
him ; either way, her lot was one of the
few for which no alleviation can be devised
or imagined.

CHAPTER XIII.

BARON LAMMERGEIER's GENEROSITY.

The insolvency of Baron Lammergeier
caused more stir in the social than in
the financial world. Certainly it was
something of an event in the latter ; but it
was one which had been anticipated, and
it was important rather by reason of its
coincidence with the collapse of certain
undertakings with which he had been connected
than on its own account. It was
pretty well known, indeed, that the baron's
personal creditors would receive a satisfactory
amount in the pound, and the City
was disposed to regard him as the victim
of circumstances. But among his personal
creditors could not be reckoned Mr. Shaft
and many others who, like Mr. Shaft, had

trusted to him to make them rich. These
persons may have been unreasonable and
illogical ; they may have had only themselves
to thank for their misfortunes, and
it may have been perfectly absurd on their
part to hold Baron Lammergeier answerable
for moneys speculatively invested in, for
example, the Trans-African Railway Company,
which was already in liquidation.
But some of them raised a prodigious
outcry and made free use of such terms as
liar " and "swindler." Thus the baron's
reputation sank to a low ebb in the west
end of the town, and would doubtless
have sunk lower still if the season had
not been at an end and everybody going
away.

As for Mr. Shaft, he held his peace and
remained indoors, which was perhaps the
reason why scarcely any of his numerous
acquaintances heard of his ruin. Walter
Sinclair, who knew something of the
relations which had subsisted between Mr.
Shaft and the Jewish financier, was an

exception. Immediately after the Ascot
week he had received a visit from his
brother, who had spoken to him with great
candour.

My goose is cooked," Lord Loddondale
had said ; " she won't have me at any price.
She was half inclined to take me, because
her old father, who has been playing ducks
and drakes with his money, would give
anything to establish her, and she would
like to please him if she could ; but when
it came to swallowing the pill, she found
that she couldn't do it. Well, there's an
end of that. Now, if you survive me,
you'll step into my shoes, and, if you don't,
your son will. That makes you about as
good a match as I am ; and I can't help
thinking — why I don't exactly know, but
I certainly do think so — that she is fond of
you. Go in and win, old man. I'm off to
Norway for a month or two ; I feel a bit
down on my luck, somehow or other, and
I want to get out of this."

So Lord Loddondale had left England,

and the mercury of Walter's hopes had
begun, not unnaturally, to rise again.
Guessing that the news of the Lammergeier
crash would bring Mr. Shaft back to
London, he made up his mind after a few
days to call in Upper Belgrave Street,
where, however, he did not succeed in
obtaining admission. Mr. Shaft was not
very well and was lying down, the butler
said. Miss Shaft was at home, but lie
believed that she was engaged. Thereupon
Walter produced a sovereign.

I should like to see Miss Shaft for a
few minutes," said he. " Will you take
my card to her, please ? "

But presently the man returned with
Miss Shaft's compliments and a request
that she might be excused. She was very
busy packing, he explained, as the family
was leaving immediately. Then, feeling
perhaps that he ought to furnish some
equivalent for his tip, he gave full particulars
of the family misfortunes, and
mentioned the address of the rooms in

Chelsea where his master and mistress
would thenceforth be domiciled.

Norma was not so busy but that she
could have spared time to receive Walter
Sinclair ; but she shrank from his pity
and from his possible offers of assistance.
Moreover, her present feeling was that she
had done for ever with persons of Lord
Walter's social standing. She was about
so she thought — to disappear altogether
from the class to which she had hitherto
belonged ; and when one has to make these
plunges, it is best to make them without
valedictory words. For the rest, it must
be owned that she was suffering a little
from that sense of desertion which people
who have sunk from affluence to poverty
almost invariably experience. The world
(which, by the way, is composed of an
aggregation of individuals closely resembling
ourselves) is popularly supposed to
turn its back upon the unfortunate ; but
perhaps the world is somewhat maligned in
this respect. The unfortunate have a way

of dropping out of sight ; and how can
kindness or civility be shown to those who
are not to be found when inquired after ?
As has been mentioned, the fashionable
world was at this time leaving London,
and of Norma's more immediate friends it
so chanced that the greater part were out
of the way of hearing about her. Lord
Loddondale was in Norway ; Nell Travers
had left home on a round of visits ; Lady
Spencer Sinclair had departed to recruit
her system at Homburg. Madge Shearman,
however, wrote very sympathetically, being
for information as to her friend's plans,
and assuring her that, if she cared to return
to Brampton, she would be more than
welcome.

Norma of course declined this invitation,
which she did not even mention to her
father. If there had been nothing else
against it, the expense of the journey would
have been a sufficient objection ; for she
was somewhat unnecessarily nervous upon
the score of expenditure. There was a

little money in the bank; the sale of the
carriage and horses might be expected to
produce at least two hundred pounds,
and in the autumn some dividends would
become payable ; so that she had really no
reason for immediate anxiety. But Norma,
who had hitherto been accustomed to look
upon a hundred pounds as a comparatively
trifling sum, hardly realized as yet upon
how little it is possible to live.

Mr. Shaft could not be persuaded to
inspect his new quarters before the time
came for him to take up his abode in them.
Indeed, he refused to go out of doors at all,
fearing lest he should encounter some
inquisitive friend. " I can't walk all the
way to Chelsea," he declared, " and we
mustn't spend half-crowns on cabs. It is
sure to be all right ; what is good enough for
you, my dear, will be good enough for me."

Nor was the effect of the move, which
Norma had greatly dreaded on his behalf,
at all prejudicial to him. On the contrary,
he seemed to breathe more freely when he

was removed from Upper Belgrave Street
and from old associations. The rooms,
though very small, were clean and decently
furnished ; a shilling's worth of flowers and
a few knickknacks made them look quite
habitable ; and the old man accommodated
himself to his altered circumstances without
a murmur — perhaps even without much
sense of discomfort. But he spoke so
little that it was difficult to guess how he
was feeling or what his thoughts were.
As a matter of fact, he felt nothing and
thought scarcely at all. He had been
stunned by his calamity ; virtually he had
been killed by it ; and if he still survived,
it was only as a man who has been mortally
wounded will stagger on for yards before
he falls to rise no more. But his daughter
naturally did not imagine the case to be
so serious as that. Except that he was
incapable of any exertion and slept a great
deal, his health seemed to be tolerably good
and his tendency to irritability had entirely
left him.
vol. in. 54

And so was initiated a quiet, monotonous
kind of life which was not without its enjoyments.
Mr. Shaft did nothing quite contentedly.
He rose late ; he read the newspapers,
taking a very long time over it ;
in the afternoon he would stroll down to the
riverside, seat himself upon a bench, and
watch the bustle and hurry of that crowded
water-highway in a placid, half-somnolent
way until it was time to go home to dinner.
Norma busied herself with household
matters and also found a few sick people to
visit. She made friends with her landlady,
a fat, good-natured woman, who was able
to give her facilities for making herself
useful in that direction. Upon the whole,
ruin did not seem to be such a very hard
thing to bear, after all.

Now it came to pass that, as Norma was
hastening homewards one morning after
an interview with the butcher, she was
aware of a hurrying footstep behind her,
and, on turning her head, was accosted by
a swarthy little man in a frock-coat, who

took off his hat and said, " I am glad to
have overtaken yon, Miss Shaft. Can
you spare me a minute or two ? "

Norma stood still, bowed, and looked
politely expectant. She had never liked
Baron Lammergeier ; latterly she had become
convinced that he was thoroughly
dishonest, and she had very little doubt but
that he had used her father's fortune for
his own purposes. As however she could
not prove this, she had no excuse for
refusing to listen to anything that he might
have to say to her.

What he had to say was that he had
heard with the deepest sorrow of Mr.
Shaft's misfortunes, and that, in the midst
of his own misfortunes, he had found time
to consider whether something might not
be done to alleviate those of his friend — for
which indeed he felt that he was in some
measure responsible. Norma seeming by
her silence to acquiesce in this latter statement,
he hastened to add that he was only
so far responsible that he had given advice

which had turned out to be bad advice.
I was asked for my opinion, and I could
only give it. I am sure you will understand,
Miss Shaft, that I should not have
placed my own money in securities which
I had reason to suppose unsafe. Both he
and I have been sufferers by the operation
of events which could not have been
foreseen ; but, owing to the fact that my
wife is a rich woman, I have not been
reduced to such — such penury as he has.
I was inexpressibly shocked when I heard
that you had been driven to take lodgings
in this dismal neighbourhood."

And the baron glanced up and down the
street with an air of pity and disgust
which was probably quite unaffected. A
silk purse cannot be made out of a sow's
ear ; but it is astonishing how easily the
pigskin can be made to forget its origin.

The neighbourhood suits us very well,"
answered Norma coldly.

Baron Lammergeier professed himself
quite unable to believe that. He paid

Norma some compliments upon her courage
and cheerfulness which very nearly had the
effect of causing her to break off the interview
without more ado ; after which he went onto
say that his sympathy with Mr. Shaft's
undeserved calamities had led him to
quietly open a little " thubthcripthion " for
him among his friends, and that he hoped
to be able shortly to hand him over a sum
which would at least preserve him from
want. And it was to announce this good
news that he had made his way to the
dismal neighbourhood "of Chelsea.

There are people with whom it is, if not
impossible, at any rate not in the least
worth while to be angry — people who not
only are not themselves gentlemen, but
who cannot even understand what it
is that constitutes a gentleman. These
almost invariably belong to the lower
middle class, or have just risen from it.
Above and below them are plenty of men
more criminal than they, but very few so
absolutely contemptible. Of this ignoble

species was Baron Lammergeier, and
Norma knew it ; yet his effrontery made
her blood boil. If she had been a man,
she would perhaps have committed the
folly of kicking him ; as it was, she used a
woman's only weapon.

You have dared to do that ! " she
exclaimed ; " you have dared to tell my
father's friends that he would accept
money from them — and money collected
by you ! I think you must be out of your
mind ! "

The colour rose to her cheeks ; her eyes
flashed ; in her wrath she seemed to tower
above the despicable little rascal, who in
truth scarcely knew that he was a rascal
at all. He was a trifle cowed, but by no
means put to silence.

My dear young lady," he remonstrated,
you must not be so displeased with me
for doing a very natural and proper thing.
You have not, perhaps, understood that
this is a purely confidential affair — not one
which will be talked about in the City or

elsewhere. Merely a few friends who have
clubbed together "

There is no occasion to say any more,"
interrupted Norma. " Be so good as to
return this money to your friends and to
explain to them that when you asked them
for it you were acting entirely without
authority. Yery likely they will have
guessed that."

Lammergeier assumed an air of pained
surprise. He had not, he said, expected to
be met in that spirit. He had hoped to be
able to convey the little gift to its destination
in the most delicate manner possible ;
but since Miss Shaft refused her assistance,
he would be obliged to put herself in direct
communication with her father.

You cannot see my father," Norma was
beginning, when the words died away upon
her lips ; for as she spoke she caught
sight of Mr. Shaft slowly approaching.
It was not his habit to leave the house so
early in the day ; but perhaps he had been
tempted out by the sunshine. In any

case, there he was ; and a meeting was
inevitable. He had already descried her
and her companion and was waving his
hand to them. A chilling sensation of
fear crept into Norma's heart and made
her turn pale. Men, when they are old
and ill and feeble, will often do things from
which they would shrink if they were in
full possession of their faculties; she could
not feel at all sure of how her father would
receive what seemed to her to be a gross
insult.

u Baron Lammergeier," said she, in a
hurried undertone, " if you think that you
owe my father a little consideration, and if
you wish to show it, you will not speak to
him about this impossible scheme of yours.
He is not well, and it would upset and
distress him to be told that any one had
had ventured to think of offering him
money."

Lammergeier smiled rather disagreeably.
You are a very proud young lady," was
his only reply.

And now Mr. Shaft advanced, holding
out a shaking hand to the man who had
despoiled him. " I should never have
expected to meet you in this part of the
town," he remarked, smiling. " We don't
dislike it, Norma and I. It removes us
from our friends as effectually as if we had
left the country ; but that is just as well.
When one has had misfortunes, you know
however, we are very glad if chance
brings one of our friends this way, and I
hope you will come in and have some
luncheon with us, Lammergeier."

My dear friend," answered Hammers
who perhaps distrusted the capacities
of a lodging-house cook, " I should be
delighted ; but unluckily I have no time
to spare. I only came here in the hope of
seeing you for a few minutes, and I am
rejoiced to find you bearing your reverses
so bravely. Reverses," he continued, with
touching gentleness of intonation, " often
come upon us when we least deserve them.
We must accept there as the — ahem! — the

will of Heaven ; but they should not
cause us to fly from our friends or to doubt
their fidelity."

Thereupon he proceeded to adduce
evidence of the fidelity of Mr. Shaft's
friends by stating, in a few well-chosen
words, the nature of the " testimonial " (for
as such he was pleased to describe it) which
he had been instrumental in getting up.

Norma, in an agony of apprehension,
tried to attract her father's attention ; but
the old man did not raise his eyes from the
ground until his would-be benefactor had
ceased speaking. Then he answered
quietly, " I am obliged to you, Hammers
and to those who have joined with
you — perhaps you will thank them forme
? — but probably they do not realize
that, although I am a pauper, I am not a
bankrupt. I should have thought indeed
that you yourself had a prior claim upon
their generosity ; for of course your entire
assets must be handed over to your
creditors."

Lammergeier's dark skin flashed slightly.
I am not in want," said he ; "I have my
wife's fortune, which the creditors cannot
touch."

Oh, I beg pardon ! It is out of your
wife's fortune, then, that you kindly proposed
to relieve me ? "

My wife," Lammergeier declared, " is
as anxious to be of a little service to you
as I am, my dear Mr. Shaft."

Yes ? Well, I am glad of that— I am
very glad of that. Because, although I
cannot accept what you offer me, there are
others who may not be in a position to
refuse it, and I hope you will now turn
your thoughts to them."

Others ? " repeated Lammergeier, with
a frown. "I don't quite follow you.
What others ? "

I mean the people who, like myself,
placed money in your hands unreservedly,
and whom you cannot be legally compelled
to reimburse. I am told that
there are a good many such people, and

that some of them have lost their last-penny.
"

I have no doubt that you have been
told a pack of lies," retorted Lammergeier
angrily. " Do you wish me to give you
a strict account of the sums which I
invested on your behalf? I offered to do
so when I saw you last, but you would not
listen to me. The papers are at your disposal
whenever you care to examine them.
I court the fullest inquiry."

Mr. Shaft smiled. " It would be useless,
Lammergeier ; I have lost my head
for figures ; I can't add two and two
together."

Then allow me to say, Mr. Shaft, that
you have no right to bring injurious
accusations against me. You must substantiate
or withdraw them."

The old man laughed a little. " I cannot
oblige you by doing either," he replied,
and I doubt whether you will try to
make me. If you won't be persuaded to
come in to luncheon, I will wish you good

morning' now. I find that I can't stand
long without getting tired."

With that, he took his daughter's arm
and shuffled away, Lammergeier making
no effort to detain him.

CHAPTER XIV.

MR. SHAFTO ENJOYS HIMSELF.

"I am so glad ! " whispered Norma,
squeezing her father's arm, as they walked
down the street together.

Glad of what, my dear ? " inquired Mr.
Shaft.

If she could have spoken the thought
that was in her mind, she would have
answered that she had been glad to find
he had still a little spirit left in him ; but
since it was not possible to be so candid,
she only replied, " I am glad you let that
wretch see that you know him for what
he is."

I trust I was not insulting," said Mr.
Shaft anxiously.

No, indeed ! you were just what you

ought to have been. It was he who was
insulting. I can't understand his having
the face to come to you with such a
proposal ! "

I doubt his having meant it for an
insult," said Mr. Shaft meditatively.
Most likely he thought I was starving.
I must say for Lammergeier that he has
always been very kind to me personally,
and I really believe that he has a liking
for me."

Yet he robbed you."

Do you think so, my dear ? Well,
yes ; perhaps he did — I suppose he did."

And as for his reason for getting up
this subscription," continued Norma, who
was still much incensed, " one can easily
guess what that was. He wanted to be
able to say that, so far from being his
victim, you were his pensioner. Probably
it is of some importance to him to clear his
character, and he still thinks that he can
do it."

Mr. Shaft glanced at her in mild surprise

and shook his head ; but whether
he meant to dissent from his daughter's
estimate of Baron Lammergeier or to
imply that that unscrupulous person's
character was past rehabilitation he did
not explain.

During luncheon he was, as usual, silent
and pensive ; but he said that he was
feeling better than he had done for sometime
past, and afterwards, instead of seating
himself in an armchair and dropping
asleep, in accordance with what had become
his custom, he suggested that, as the afternoon
was fine and not too hot, they might
take a stroll down towards the river.

Some people are able to think the river
at Chelsea beautiful ; and no doubt beauty
of a kind is discoverable almost anywhere,
unless it be in the manufacturing districts ;
but those who are acquainted with the
upper reaches of the Thames can scarcely
contemplate it with pleasure as it draws
near to its destination. Mr. Shaft, gazing
at the dirty, turbid flood, sighed, and his

thoughts went back to Eton and Oxford
and to many a bygone contest of which
the heroes were dead and forgotten.

Poor old river ! " he said ; " it comes
to an ugly end, like most of us, and the
sooner it gets out to sea and is washed
clean the better. Well, I shall have got
out to sea soon." And after a long pause,
which Norma did not interrupt, he went
on : " Those whom the gods love die young
it sounds absurd ; but it's true enough.
Isn't it odd that, though we all live such
a short time, yet the generality of us contrive
to live too long ? Look at and

and " (here he mentioned the

names of some well-known contemporaries
of his). " Such fine young fellows as they
were half a century ago ! — and what are
they now ? A quarrelsome old law-lord
who has a grievance ; a Secretary of State,
eaten up with senile vanity, whom all his
colleagues laugh at, and who hasn't wit
enough left to see that they are laughing
at him ; an ex-politician who employs

vol. in. 55

himself in writing long jeremiads to the
Times which nobody reads. If that is
what becomes of the big men, what is to
be expected of the little ones ? Ah, my
dear Norma, if I had died ten years ago,
or, for the matter of that, five years ago,
you wouldn't have had so much reason to
be ashamed of me."

Do you think I am ashamed of you
now, papa ? " exclaimed Norma. " What
have you ever done that I could be
ashamed of?"

I have managed to lose very nearly
every farthing that I possessed, my dear."

But how ? By believing in the honesty
of a man who has cheated you. There is
nothing to be ashamed of in that. The
shame is for the cheat."

Well, I don't know," said Mr. Shaft
in the dispassionate tone which had
become habitual to him ; " there's some
shame in allowing one's self to be cheated,
I take it. At the same time, I think you
are too severe on Lammergeier perhaps.

He says he can give an account of the
investments that he made for me, and I
shouldn't wonder if he could. I suppose
he must have sailed rather near the wind
in assuring me that some of them were as
safe as consols ; but that is a very different
thing from pocketing the money."

I haven't the slightest doubt that he
pocketed the money' said Norma.

Mr. Shaft smiled : the point did not
seem to him worth arguing. " Anyway,"
he resumed, " I have had my deserts ;
and if that were all it wouldn't matter
much. But the sins of the fathers are
visited upon the children — their sins and
their follies too — and you have to suffer
for mine."

But I don't suffer," Norma declared ;
to me poverty doesn't mean suffering
at all."

"Ab, so you say, my dear — one must
say something. But facts always remain
the same, whatever we may say about
them ; and whether I die tomorrow, or

next month, or next year, it is certain that
some day I must leave you alone in the
world, with a bare pittance to live upon,
whereas I might have left you rich."

Don't let us talk about that," pleaded
Norma. " If one must be left alone in the
world it makes very little difference whether
one is left rich or poor."

u Oh, it makes a difference — it makes a
very great difference. I wish "

He broke off and remained silent so long
that at last Norma asked him what it was
that he wished.

I was only going to say that I wish
Walter Sinclair would come and see us,"
he answered. " Is he out of town, I
wonder ? "

Most people are out of town at this
time of the year," observed Norma.
Besides, as you were saying this morning,
we are effectually removed from our friends
now, and it is better that we should be."

Did I say that ? If I did, I wasn't
thinking of Sinclair or Loddondale. Well,

I've worried you more than enough about
them both, haven't I ? — I'll say no more.
Do you know what I should like, Norma ?
I should like to hire a boat and scull you
up the river. I really feel as if I could
do it."

She did not at first imagine that he was
serious ; but he looked so wistfully at the
water, and the fancy was evidently so
strong upon him, that at length, to humour
him, she consented ; and when they had
found what he contemptuously called a
tub, he actually did take the sculls and
pulled for a short distance towards Wandsworth
Bridge, the tide favouring him. But
very soon he had to admit that the exertion,
slight as it was, was too much for
him ; so that he was willing enough to
change places with Norma, who paddled
quietly up stream, while be chatted to her
about his school and college days, and the
races that he had won, and the revolution
that had been effected in every branch of
rowing since then.

He was more like himself than she had
seen him for many weeks past, and when
it was time to go home to dinner, he
said laughingly, " We must save up our
pocket-money and treat ourselves to a boat
every now and then, Norma ; I haven't
enjoyed anything so much as this since
Venice."

He was tired, however, and needed the
support of his daughters arm during the
short walk back to their lodgings. " One
ought not to let one's self drop into
slovenly habits," he said at the door ; " but
I think, if you'll excuse me, I won't dress
for dinner to-night, Norma ; I feel more
inclined for sleep than food."

He had of late taken to falling asleep
so frequently and so suddenly that Norma
was not surprised by his non-appearance
at the dinner hour. After waiting a while,
she went to his door and knocked, but
received no answer. It seemed a pity that
he should be disturbed ; yet since there
was nothing that he disliked so much as

cold soup, she made up her mind to go in
and rouse him.

He was seated in his armchair, snoring
heavily ; his head had fallen back, and
one side of his face was contracted in a
curious way which Norma did not at first
notice. Only after repeated and fruitless
efforts to wake him did she realize that
this was no ordinary sleep, and that the
sword which for so long had been suspended
over her by a thread had at length
fallen.

Nevertheless, the hastily summoned
doctor, when he came, did not consider
the case a hopeless one. " Oh, if you
speak of absolute recovery," he said, in
answer to Norma's question, " that is
rather too much to expect ; but I quite
think that your father will recover consciousness,
and perhaps also the power of
speech. Have you engaged a nurse yet?
No ? Well, you had better do so ; for you
can't undertake all that will be required
single-handed. I will call again in the

morning ; you may feel assured that there
is no immediate cause for alarm."

No sane human being would wish to
die by inches ; yet, oddly enough, most of
us seem to wish that those whom we love
should do so, and cannot bring ourselves
to desire for them the speedy release which
we should certainly desire for ourselves.
Norma breathed more freely after the
doctor's verdict, though she quite understood
that a respite was all that he had
promised, In obedience to his instructions,
she sent for a sick-nurse, who was soon in
attendance ; but through that first night
she preferred to remain by her father's
bedside, hoping always that he would come
to himself again ; and indeed towards
morning he did show some symptoms of
returning consciousness.

Quite as much as we could hope for,"
the doctor, who made his appearance early
in the morning, declared. " And now,
Miss Shaft, you will go and try to get
some sleep, please. If you like to relieve

the nurse for a time during the afternoon,
you can do so ; but you must not be two
nights in succession out of bed, or you will
knock yourself up and become useless —
which I am sure you would regret."

Norma was in truth knocked up already,
as healthy people always are after a long
vigil. A few hours of rest restored her,
however ; and when she returned to her
father's room she had the satisfaction of
finding that he could recognize her,
although he was unable to speak or move.
She sat with him for the remainder of the
afternoon and did what little there was to
be done for him ; but he scarcely seemed
to notice that she was there. The nurse,
who returned soon after six o'clock, was
of opinion that he would pull through this
attack.

They very generally do," she observed
composedly ; " it's more often the second
or the third stroke that proves fatal than
the first."

The nurse was a very decent sort of

woman ; but of course she would have been
of little value as a nurse if the probable
death of a patient intrusted to her care
had greatly distressed her. Norma knew
that; yet she felt painfully the lack of a
single sympathizing fellow-creature in her
trouble, and it was with a heavy heart
that she betook herself to the little ,
where a fellow-creature who was
full of the sincerest sympathy had been
waiting for her more than half an hour.

I hoped you would not mind my
coming in," Walter Sinclair said, as he
advanced to meet her. " I came to call
upon you, and they told me of Mr. Shaft's
illness ; so I thought I would wait upon
the chance of seeing you and asking
whether I could be of any use. Can I be
of any use ? "

Norma shook her head, though she was
grateful to him and glad to see him.

Nobody can be of any use," she
answered quietly.

Is it so bad as that ? "

Yes, I believe so. He is not dying,
they say ; but he will never be well again."

There was a pause ; after which Walter
said, " I'm very sorry." It was not much
to say ; but then, there was nothing else
to be said, and he spoke as if he meant it.
By-and-by he resumed : " I needn't tell you
how sorry I was to hear of your other
misfortunes too. One isn't supposed to
speak about these things, is one ? But "

There is no reason at all why they
should not be spoken about," interrupted
Norma ; " only they are of no consequence
now."

"Except that if you needed things, as
one must for an invalid — I mean, if you

were in any difficulty " He stopped

short, growing red and confused, and feeling
how impossible it was to offer her what
he wanted to offer.

But she smiled and answered, without
any embarrassment, " I know what you
mean, and it is very good of you. I
should not mind being indebted to you if

there were any necessity for it ; only I am
glad to say that there is none. I can pay
ray way quite well."

Can't I do anything for you, then ? "
asked Walter, half pleased by an admission
which he had not dared to anticipate, half
disappointed that he was not to be allowed
to take advantage of it.

You do a great deal by coming to seeme,"
she replied ; " it is something to know
that one isn't forgotten by one's friends."

He made a mental note of that, but
observed : " Your friends would like to
feel that they could do a little more for
you, though, than just call and ask how
you were getting on, like newspaper reporters.
Haven't you any small commissions
that I might execute ? "

Well, if you would leave some prescriptions
to be made up at the chemist's
as you pass "

Of course I will. And perhaps you
would let me send you a few flowers.
They brighten up a sick-room, you know,

and I should think it very kind if you
would accept them."

She could hardly refuse so modest a
request ; nor could she help being a little
comforted by his anxiety to comfort her.
Why are you still in London ? " she asked
presently ; " I thought everybody had gone
away."

"Oh, I'm insignificant enough to be
able to disregard the proceedings of everybody.
If a humble sculptor mayn't stay
in town after Parliament rises, I don't
know who may. Besides, I have nowhere
else to go."

All this time she had not asked him to
sit down, and he guessed that if he wanted
to be received again, he must not unduly
prolong the present interview. Therefore
he took his leave, saying, " I shall call
every day to inquire how Mr. Shaft is ;
but I shan't expect you to see me unless
you are inclined. Only you'll remember,
won't you, that if I can be of service to
you in any possible way, you will be

giving me a real proof of friendship by
letting me know of it ? "

So he departed ; and in the course of the
evening there arrived a large basket, containing
flowers and grapes, besides a dozen
bottles of champagne. Accompanying
these latter was an apologetic and explanatory
note — " It is so important for invalids
to have really good champagne, and good
champagne cant be had of the wine merchants
in these days. This is some that
came out of my father's cellar, and I know
it is all right — which is my excuse for
sending it."

Mr. Shaft drank a little of the champagne.
The doctor said it might be good
for him and could certainly do him no
harm. He rallied to some extent, but did
not recover his speech, and how far he was
in possession of his senses it was difficult
to say. Two days elapsed without any
change occurring in his condition, and on
each morning Walter Sinclair called to
inquire, though he did not ask to see Miss

Shaft. But on the third day Norma,
hearing that he was at the door, went
downstairs to thank him for his grapes and
flowers, of which a fresh supply had now
been sent, and after that it came to be an
understood thing that they should meet
daily for a few minutes.

During these meetings no very interesting
or important remarks were exchanged ;
but such as they were, they were all that
Walter Sinclair lived for, while to Norma
they became the one event of the twenty-four
hours. She had made up her mind
that, as a lover, Lord Walter, like Lady
Clara Yere de Yere, was " not one to be
desired ; " but justice compelled her to
admit that he was at least a kind and
discreet friend.

CHAPTER XV.

A " MELANCHOLY EVENT."

During the weeks that had elapsed since
his parting interview with Norma, Basil
Morley had been a busy man. He set
forth upon what he was pleased to call his
quest " with modest confidence in his
ability to bring it to a successful issue and
a determination to spare neither time nor
pains in securing the proofs demanded of
him. First of all he sought out Mr. Green,
whom he speedily terrified into obstinate
silence ; then he went up to London, visited
the church in which Bessie Green had been
married, and examined the register, which
of course told him no more than he already
knew ; after which he proceeded, in the
manner of the modern British detective,

and at about the same rate of speed, to
track the married couple from point to
point, betaking himself to the various
houses in which they had dwelt, consulting
the neighbouring tradesmen, and, in
short, neglecting no opportunity of setting-persons
whose interests it might be to mislead
him upon their guard. Thus, notwithstanding
his patience, pertinacity, and
great natural acuteness, he stumbled at
length (as the modern British detectives
also sometimes does) upon the truth. For,
as luck would have it, he unearthed, in the
course of his researches, a young woman
who had been housemaid to the late Mrs.
Walter and who was able to give a description
of the late Mr. Walter which
placed that gentleman's identity beyond a
doubt.

Now, Basil Morley was not in the least
a dishonest man. So far as he can be said
to have had any opinions (and he would
have been not less amazed than indignant
if anybody had assured him that he really

yoL. ill 56

had none), he probably held that the end
justifies the means — expediency being, according
to what he imagined to be his
creed, the sole reasonable test by which
human action can be judged. But one
does not so easily emancipate one's self
from the trammels of early prejudice ; and,
as he had never contracted the habit of
telling conscious lies, it was obvious to him
that he would have to exonerate Lord
Walter Sinclair. This necessity was not,
however, so painful to him as it would have
been earlier in the year ; for in the meantime
Mr. Shaft had lost his money and
Mr. Shaft's daughter had ceased to be an
heiress. Such events make a difference.
It is, no doubt, a pity that they should ;
but they do ; and what is the good of being
a philosopher if one has not the courage
to face and recognize plain facts ? Mr.
Morley's means were limited ; he was fond
of small luxuries and could not but be
aware that the lack of them would exercise
a prejudicial influence upon his spirits, his

temper, and consequently upon his general
usefulness. Married men may have as
many as a dozen children; instances in
which that formidable number has actually
been exceeded cannot be called rare ; and
the lot of a poet, with an income of less
than a thousand a year and fourteen hungry
persons to feed upon it, is almost too
dreadful for contemplation. These reflections
caused the pensive Basil to feel that
Providence had in some measure tempered
the wind to the shorn lamb ; and it was ina
spirit of manly resignation that he sat
down to indite the following letter : —

My dear Miss Shaft,

When we parted, I told you
that I would not see you again until I
should be in a position to substantiate the
statements which I had made in an article
in the Omniscient Review, and to which
you took exception. To the readers of the
article I do not feel that I owe any apology
or explanation : the instance which I adduced

— so far as they would be able to
understand it — is at least sufficiently in
harmony with the facts for the purpose of
my argument. But to you, alas ! I have
to confess that I was deceived by evidence
which, upon closer scrutiny, has turned
out to be fallacious."

Here Mr. Morley related at some length
the various incidents of his search, culminating
in the discovery that not Lord
Walter Sinclair, but his elder brother, had
been the culprit whom he had denounced.
It seems unquestionable," he added,
"that the late Lady Loddondale was
deceived by her husband as to her true
rank ; but this, I own, is a matter which
interests me little. To me the sad, yet
certain deduction from all this is that you
will now see in Lord Walter Sinclair a
man who is not only innocent, not only
maligned, but one whose love you were led
to spurn through the calumnies of a rival.
What can I say ? What amends can I
make ? Only this, it seems to me : I will

be bis rival no longer. I withdraw from
the contest ; I admit that chivalry commands
me to do so ; I only implore you to
pardon my mistaken zeal and to believe
that, come what may, I shall always be in
heart yours, and only yours,

Basil Morley."

This missive, which reached Norma one
hot morning in the end of August, overwhelmed
her with mingled shame and joy.
She had, it must be confessed, some reason
to fee] penitent ; but as for feeling unhappy,
that was impossible, so great was
the relief to her of finding that the best
and kindest of her friends was in truth
what he appeared to be, and not what she
had so absurdly imagined that he was.
Hitherto she had always had an uncomfortable
feeling that the man whom she
saw every day, and whose gifts of flowers
and fruit she had not liked to refuse, was
not the real Walter Sinclair at all, or at
any rate that he was only showing her one

side of himself; but now she perceived,
with a great thankfulness, how completely
she had misjudged him, and, forgetting
that she had brought no overt charge
against him which he could have recognized
as such, she longed to confess her
injustice and to ask his forgiveness. Also
she now understood what had been something
of a puzzle to her — namely, Lord
Loddondale's abrupt abandonment of his
oft-declared antipathy to the idea of marriage.


It was perhaps natural enough that she
should have felt very angry with that
converted misogynist and that she should
have held him chiefly responsible for a
mistake with which, as a matter of fact, he
had had nothing to do. Her anger, however,
was of short duration ; for presently
she took up the Times, which was lying on
the table, and this was the first paragraph
that caught her eye : —

Sudden Death of the Marquis of
Loddondale. — We regret to have to announce

that Lord Loddondale expired from
heart-disease yesterday, while shooting
with a party of friends over his moor in
Aberdeenshire. His lordship, who had
only recently returned from a yachting
cruise to Norway, appeared to be in his
usual health up to the moment of his death ;
but it is believed that he had never fully
recovered from injuries sustained in the
hunting-field two or three years ago, and
that over-exertion was the immediate cause
of the melancholy event. The late marquis,
who was well known on the turf, was unmarried.
He is succeeded in the family
honours by his only brother, Lord Walter
Sinclair, the sculptor of that exquisite figure
of Charity which all Londoners lately saw
and admired at Burlington House."

The paper dropped from Norma's hand
and her eyes filled with tears. Poor Lord
Loddondale had not been exactly an ornament
to the peerage, and the writer of the
obituary notice had been unable to claim
anv other distinction for him than that of

having been well known on the turf; but
he had been very kind to her, and she had
been fond of him, and she did not believe
now, as she had been ready to do a few
minutes before, that he had deliberately
personated his brother. To his brother,
too, he had been kind and anxious to be
generous ; after what had happened, she
felt that it would be impossible to make
the communication to his brother which
she had meant to make that day.

If she had had all her wits about her,
she would have realized that she was not
very likely to have the chance of so doing ;
but this did not occur to her at the moment.
Indeed she was still waiting, in expectation
of Walter's appearance, when a telegram,
dated Edinburgh, was brought to her, in
which he stated briefly that he had been
summoned to Scotland and would write
further particulars as soon as possible.

The reason of his journey he did not
mention ; for he knew that the daily papers
would inform her of that, and there are

things which one does not confide to a
telegraph clerk unless one is obliged. Besides,
he had an irrational hope that the
news might turn out to be false. To
receive bad news with incredulity is the
natural impulse of most people, and it
seemed very unlikely that a strong fellow
like Loddondale, who had never had a
day's illness in his life, except as the result
of hunting or steeplechase accidents, who
had always kept himself in hard condition,
and who had been able to stand any
amount of fatigue, should have dropped
down dead in the prime of his manhood,
as he was said to have done. Unlikely
things, however, happen almost as often as
likely ones, and death is one of the things
which are never in reality unlikely to
happen to anybody. When Walter reached
his brother's shooting-lodge that evening,
he found that the visitors who had been
staying there had already departed and
that the local doctor was anxiously awaiting
his arrival and instructions.

Le vox est mort ; vive le roi ! One does
not need to be a king to have experienced
the melancholy irony of that saying. The
late marquis had not been unpopular with
his many dependents, amongst whom he
had borne the character of a just, though
somewhat hard-headed and close-fisted
master ; but they had not particularly loved
him, and of course the first thing to be
done was to show proper deference and
respect to his successor, at whose unaffected
grief they were a little surprised.

Well, naturally they could know nothing
of all the memories of long-past school-days
which crowded upon Walter as he stood
sadly looking down at what had been his
brother. Warbury had fought his battles
for him once or twice, he remembered, and
had then left him to shift for himself,
telling him that he must learn to stand up
against moderate odds. Warbury had
always been a great stickler for fair play —
a thorough Anglo-saxon, taking advantage
of no man, but not much inclined to give

any man more than was his due. " Yet he
was liberal enough to me," Walter thought.
lie wanted to allow me a thousand a
year ; and that day, after the bazaar, he
would have retired in my favour if I had
asked him to do it. And I never gave
him a word of thanks or told him what a
good fellow I thought him."

He was not allowed to indulge long
in such profitless musings. There were
arrangements to be made and half a dozen
people awaiting his orders — the house-steward,
who had been sent for from
Loddondale ; the butler ; the doctor, who
wanted to explain to him that there would
be no need for an inquest ; as well as
others.

He did mechanically what was required
of him, and accepted most of the suggestions
which were submitted to his approval.
In the course of the evening the valet
requested an audience. " If you please,
my lord, these are his lordship's keys, incase
your lordship should wish to look at

any papers there may be in the despatch-box
or the drawers of the writing-table. And
should we telegraph to Edinburgh or
London for the undertaker, my lord ? I
beg your lordship's pardon, but the doctor
wished me to say that no time should be
lost."

Perhaps, of all the miserable duties that
devolve upon a dead man's near relations,
there is none which goes so much against
the grain as that of looking through his
papers. One cannot rid one's self of the
feeling that it is an underhand and dishonourable
act ; yet it has to be done ; and
Walter, when he was left alone, set to
work to do it. Thus it came to pass that
the very first thing that he found was a
letter addressed to himself in his brother's
handwriting, with the superscription : " To
be opened after my death." It was dated
some eighteen months back — that is to say,
soon after the late Lord Loddondale had
come into his title — and the brief statement
which it contained caused its reader no

small surprise. Being so short, it may be
subjoined here.

Dear Walter,

From what the doctors tell
me, I expect my life is not a very safe one,
and as you will succeed me, I think you
should know that I am married. My wife
is not a lady ; she is a niece of old Green,
who keeps the Shaft Arms at Brampton ;
I dare say you don't remember him. She
and I haven't hit it off together, and have
agreed to live apart. There are no
children; and I have just arranged for the
transfer of a considerable sum of money to
her, so that she will have no claim upon
the estate. Of course, if she chooses to call
herself Lady Loddondale, she can ; but I
understand that she has no such wish, and
certainly it would be better to keep the
thing quiet. At present she goes by the
name of Mrs. Walter. That reminds me
to say that when I first made acquaintance
with her I took the liberty of assuming

your name. It wasn't a very straight
thing to do ; but I had my reasons at the
time, and I don't suppose it can have
injured you in any way. My wife very
soon found out who I really was. I wanted
you to know about this because a man
can't tell what may happen after his death,
and though I am pretty sure that she
won't trouble you, her relations possibly
might. There is no occasion for any
mystery about the business ; only I would
just as soon that people didn't hear what
an ass I have made of myself.

Your affectionate brother,

LODDONDALE."

This revelation did not in itself astonish
Walter for more than a few minutes ; for
he had often fancied that there must be
some reason for the irritation which his
brother had been wont to display when
urged to marry ; but what at first puzzled
him exceedingly was the undoubted fact
that Loddondale had recently asked Miss

Shaft to be his wife. Then, all of a
sudden, the circumstances of the case
brought back Basil Morley's article in the
Omniscient Review to his mind ; and so by
degrees many things became plain to him
which had hitherto been obscure. These
were of a nature to give him some satisfaction
and some pain. If, as he now
suspected, Norma had identified him with
the heartless personage who had served to
point Mr. Morley's moral, that was a misapprehension
which could easily be removed
; but, on the other hand, it was nota
very pleasant reflection that she had
been so willing to think evil of him, nor
did it seem likely that she would have .so
thought of any man for whom she had
much regard. Upon the whole, the surmise
which had suggested itself to him added so
little to his hopes of ultimate success that
he almost doubted whether it would be
worth while to let Miss Shaft know of
an affair which his brother had evidently
wished to keep secret.

For the time being, however, he was
obliged to postpone all consideration of
that question ; and indeed it was more thana
week before he was able to recur to it.
During that interval he had to see to the
transfer of his brother's remains to the
family vault at Loddondale and to take
his part in the dismal funeral pageant
prescribed by custom. Then came the
reading of the will, which was of quite
recent date, and which produced a certain
sensation among the assembled relatives.
From the various bequests made, it appeared
that the amount of the personalty
at the testator's disposal must be considerably
larger than had been anticipated ; but
this was probably owing to successes on
the turf, of which nobody but himself had
been aware. The really surprising thing
in the document was its final clause, in
virtue of which Norma Shaft, besides receiving
thirty thousand pounds down, was
constituted residuary legatee.

Upon my word, the girl couldn't have

done much better if she had gone the length
of marrying him ! " one disappointed cousin
exclaimed, and added that really that sort
of thing was a little bit compromising, don't
you know. " I'm not at all sure that I
should allow a daughter of mine to accept it."

But Walter hoped that Mr. Shaft would
be less scrupulous. It is an understood
thing that one may accept from the dead
what one must not accept from the living,
and he rejoiced to think that by this
unexpected windfall the woman whom he
loved would at least be placed beyond the
reach of economical worries. In any case,
he himself was now rich enough to be able
to dispense with thirty thousand pounds,
or even double that amount. Later in the
day he had a talk with the family lawyer,
to whom he thought it best to mention the
letter which he had discovered in Scotland.

"Yes,, yes," the lawyer said; "it was
an unfortunate business. However, the
woman died four or five months ago, and
luckily she had no family. She was handy.

nz. 57

solely provided for by your poor brother —
too handsomely in my opinion. I should
have thought that an allowance for life
would have met all the requirements of the
case ; but he took a different view. She
was troublesome in some ways ; though
perhaps not so troublesome as she might
have been. Her determination to settle at
Brampton was particularly annoying."

Oh, she settled at Brampton, did she ? "
said Walter.

Yes, she spent the last months of her
life there with her relations, and I doubt
whether she kept her own counsel as rigidly
as she led us to suppose that she was doing.
At least, we have been informed that a
busybody of the name of Morley, who lives
in that neighbourhood, has been prosecuting
inquiries about her. You may know him,
perhaps ? "

I have met him," answered Walter
briefly.

And with Miss Shaft you are acquainted,
of course ? Your poor brother

was not a man of whom one could venture
to ask questions ; but I confess that his
will excited my curiosity. I wonder whether
it is the case, as I am assured that it is,
that the lady refused an offer of marriage
from him a short time ago."

But the lawyer's curiosity received as
little encouragement from the present as
it had from the late Lord Loddondale, and
he was at once politely given to understand
that the interview might now close.

CHAPTER XVI.

MR. SHAFTO IS NOT CONTRADICTED.

As time went on, Mr. Shaft slowly rallied
from the attack which had brought him
so near to death. He took notice of what
went on around him, he began to talk a
little, and liked Norma to read the newspapers
to him. However, it did not seem
to her that he regained much strength,
and one day she asked the doctor plainly
whether there was any chance of his recovery.


Well, in a certain sense he has recovered,"
the doctor replied. " If you ask
me whether he will ever leave his room
again, that is another thing. I doubt it ;
but at the same time I should be sorry to
express a positive opinion one way or the

other. In such cases as his a good deal
depends upon the patient's constitution, and
something perhaps upon his will. Many
people come back to life from sheer determination
not to die."

If that were so, Norma thought, the
chances ought to be in her father's favour ;
for it was certain that he did not wish to
die. As consciousness and more power of
connected thought returned to him, he
grew restless and uneasy, his eyes always
scanning the doctor's face with an eager,
unspoken question ; while to Norma he
whispered again and again, "Ami getting
better ? Do you think I am really getting
better ? "

She did not think so, and it pained hera
little to watch that desperate clinging to
a frail existence which distinguishes those
who believe themselves to be possessed of
immortal souls from the lower animals.
But it must be said for poor Mr. Shaft
that, although he may have been to some
extent under the influence of that rather

ignoble instinct from which none of us can
venture to pronounce ourselves free until
we have been brought face to face with
death, it was not on his own account
chiefly that he desired to remain a little
longer in the world.

What is to become of you after I am
gone, my dear ? " he would ask, in his
slow, laboured utterance ; and she could
not reassure or comfort him, though she
said all that it was possible to say.

The prospect in truth was not a reassuring
one, nor could she herself help
dreading it. It is bad enough for a man
to be quite alone in the world ; but it is
doubtless worse for a woman — unless indeed
she be a rich woman, in which case
she is not likely to remain alone long.
And this unfortunately was the one clear
idea which held possession of Mr. Shaft's
confused brain.

Ah, if you had money ! " he would
sigh, in answer to her assurances that she
was very well able to take care of herself.

But you have no money. It is all gone
all gone ! "

She had said nothing to him about Lord
Loddondale's death : for obvious reasons
she thought it better to mention neither
his name nor that of Walter Sinclair.
From the latter she had received a long
letter, written immediately after his arrival
in Aberdeenshire, in which he expressed
his intention of returning to London as
soon as he should be able to do so, and
begged her to be so kind as to send him
a line on a post-card every day to say how
things were going with her. With this
request she complied, but she heard no
more from him until one morning when
the post brought her communications both
from him and from the late Lord London
lawyers, conveying to her the intelligence
that she was once more an heiress.
It may be that, under other circumstances,
she would have felt the delicacy claimed
for himself by Lord Loddondale's disappointed
kinsman and that she would

have hesitated to accept so large a legacy
from a man with whom she had not been
connected ; but as matters stood, she could
only think of the relief that she would
now be able to give to her father. She
hastened into his bedroom, with the letters
in her hand, and somewhat too precipitately
announced her good news.

You need not be unhappy about meany
more, papa ; I have come into a
fortune ! "

He did not in the least understand her,
nor did he seem able to follow her hurried
explanation of the events which had
occurred. Only, after she had repeated to
him four or five times that Lord London
was dead, he smiled feebly. " No,
no, my dear," he answered ; " young
Loddondale isn't dead. You are thinking
of his father." And he paid no heed to
her repeated assurances that she was now
amply provided for, but presently recurred
to the old weary plaint — " What is to
become of you when I am gone, my dear ?

what is to become of you when I am
gone r

Really, ma'am, I think you had better
leave him alone," said the nurse, who had
now come into the room ; " he has had a
bad night, and you only distress him. I
don't think he knows what he is saying,
and I'm sure he don't know what you are
saying to him."

Norma retired, discomfited. There was
not much use in having riches unless her
riches enabled her to set her father's mind
at ease, and she now began to think that
perhaps she ought not to let herself be
enriched in that way. Walter had written
very kindly, and had seemed to consider
the matter one for congratulation ; but,
after all, the money would virtually come
out of his pocket, and she was not sure
that she cared to be so much indebted to
anybody. Besides, her personal wants
were so modest that the small fortune
which she would inherit from her father
would more than suffice to satisfy them.

And so, when Walter, who had not lost
much time in following his letter to
London, called upon her that afternoon,
he found her in rather low spirits.

There is very little change ; but what
there is is rather for the worse, I think,"
she said, in answer to his first inquiry.
I have no hope now, and often I wish
that his troubles were over. It is so
miserable to feel that one can do absolutely
nothing for him ! The happiest thing is
to die as your brother did, without an
hour's illness."

Perhaps it is. I remember he used to
say that he would rather meet his end in
the hunting-field than anywhere else. But
that doesn't make it the less sad that his
life should have been taken from him so
early, and just when life was beginning
to go more smoothly with him too." He
added, after a moment, " I never did
Loddondale justice ; he was a much better
brother to me than I was to him. One
finds these things out when it is too late."

I am sure you have nothing to reproach
yourself with," said Norma ; " but I do
think that he was fond of you and wanted
to do anything that he could to befriend
you."

She paused, feeling that this subject
could not be pursued much further; and,
as he made no rejoinder, there was silence
for a minute or two. This was broken by
a somewhat abrupt query from Norma.
Do people ever refuse legacies ? " she
asked.

I can't tell you," answered Walter,
smiling ; "I have never heard of an
instance of such a thing being done."

But I suppose they can refuse, if they
wish ? "

Oh, no doubt they can, if they wish ;
but it is not easy to imagine why any one
should ever wish to do so."

Well, reasons are conceivable, I think.
One might not particularly want money,
and one might think that one had no business
to take it away from those to whom it

ought to belong. A residuary legatee is
a person who receives what remains over
out of an estate after all bequests have
been paid, is he not ? It stands to reason
that you, and not I, ought to be in that
position with regard to your brother's
estate."

But he didn't think so, you see."
"I may be allowed to think so, though.
The truth is that it wouldn't make me any
happier to be an heiress now. I know
why he left me all this money, and I am
very grateful to him for his kindness ; but,
as things have fallen out, it comes too late.
My father didn't even understand what I
meant when I told him about it."

But you will be able to make him
understand by-and-by, I hope," said Walter.
Anyhow, I think poor Loddondale's
wishes ought to be taken into consideration
; and you must remember that if you
don't want the money, nobody else does.
As for me, my difficulty will be to know
how to spend my income."

Norma was going to make some reply,
when the nurse came in to ask if she could
speak to her for a moment.

He's very fretful and restless," the
woman said, as soon as they were out in
the passage. " He recognized the gentleman's
voice, and wants most particularly
to speak to him. Could you bring him in
for a few minutes, do you think, ma'am ?
We shall have another bad night if you
don't, I'm sure."

Norma was not very anxious to comply
with her father's request, for she was a
little afraid of what he might say ; but at
the same time she did not see how she
could refuse, and in communicating his
wish to Walter she was careful to explain
that he was not in full possession of his
faculties.

His mind wanders a good deal at
times," she said ; " so you must not be
surprised if he talks nonsense. The best
plan is just to agree with him, as if it were
a matter of course."

I quite understand'' answered Walter,
who in truth could guess to what her
warning probably referred ; " I won't contradict
him or distress him, whatever he
may say."

So, without further words, he was conducted
into the bedroom where the old
man was sitting up in bed, supported by
pillows. Mr. Shaft's cheeks had a faint
flush upon them ; his eyes were bright and
opened wide ; he welcomed his visitor with
a smile, and seemed to know very well
what he was about.

This is kind of you, Sinclair," said
he ; " I thought you wouldn't refuse to
say good-bye to an old friend. You
can go away, nurse, until we ring for
you."

Walter took the trembling hand which
was stretched out to him, and which was
hot and dry — an odd symptom, the doctor
might have thought. " Well, Sinclair,"
Mr. Shaft went on, " I'm very near the
finish, as you see, and I want to say a

word or two to you while I can. A dying
man may say what he pleases, you know ;
he needn't be afraid of giving offence any
more''

You certainly won't offend me," Walter
declared ; " but I hope you are not dying.
You look a great deal better than I expected
to see you."

Do I ? I am dying all the same, my
dear boy. I had my notice to quit served
upon me some time ago, and I should be
glad enough to get to my rest if it were not
for Norma. That's what I wanted to speak
to you about — about Norma."

I am sure you know " began

Walter, rather confusedly; but the old man
interrupted him before he could finish a
sentence which in truth he would have
found some difficulty in ending.

Yes, I know — of course I know ; and
there's no reason why we shouldn't talk
about it openly. I was very sorry for
what happened in Venice ; it was a misfortune
and — and a mistake. But I have

thought a great deal about it since ; and if

you are still in the same mind Are

you still in the same mind ? "

Walter did not reply immediately. He
felt sure that Norma would not wish him
to reply to such a question if he could
avoid doing so ; but then again he had
promised that he would not distress her
father ; and, after all, nothing that might
pass during this interview would be in anyway
binding upon her. So he said gravely,
I shall always be in the same mind as
long as I live, Mr. Shaft."

Then I may tell you something that I
couldn't otherwise have said. She does
care for you, Sinclair, and she has never
cared for any one but you. Why she
refused you I don't know — that's for you
to find out — but I know why she refused
your brother. I guessed at the time, and
I have noticed things since — but my
memory fails me, and I had better not try
to go into particulars. It was only when
I heard you in the next room that everything

seemed to become clear to me all of
a sudden."

Here he paused ; and Walter, in grievous
perplexity, remained silent.

Can you tell me that it will be all
right ? " Mr. Shaft asked anxiously. " I
know there's a great deal more to be
said ; but Fve no time and no strength.
Can you just tell me that it will be all
right?"

To such an appeal Walter could not
refuse to respond. " Yes," he answered ;
11 I can honestly tell you that you need
have no fear about your daughter's future.
Don't let it trouble you any longer."

Evasive though the answer was, it satisfied
the old man, who fell back upon his
pillows with a sigh. " Good-bye, then,"
he said; "good-bye, and God bless you
both ! Perhaps, if I have brought you
together, you will think that I have made
some amends." He repeated once or twice
faintly, " some amends," and then closed
his eyes, as if he had no more to say.

vol. in. 58

Norma made a sign to Walter, who
followed her out of the room, and who
appeared to be even more disconcerted
than she.

I hope you did not mind my speaking
as I did," be began the moment that
they were outside the door ; " we agreed,
you know, that he was not to be contradicted."


Oh, you were quite right," she answered
hurriedly; "you couldn't have said anything
else. I won't ask you to stay any longer
now ; I must go back to my father."

He had no choice but to accept his dismissal,
reluctant though he was to be dismissed
without a syllable of explanation
having been vouchsafed to him. As he
went his way pensively down Cheyne
Walk, however, he was able to take a little
comfort from the thought that Norma had
at least not denied her father's assertions.
Whether this was because she could not do
so, or because she did not consider them
worth denying, was a question which he

examined from every possible point of
view in the course of the evening, and
which he had not succeeded in answering
to his satisfaction when he went to
bed.

CHAPTER XVII.

TIMELY HOSPITALITY.

By eleven o'clock the next morning Walter
was on his way towards Chelsea again.
He had intended to defer his visit until
the afternoon, but had found his patience
unequal to the demand made upon it ;
besides, after what had passed on the
previous day, it seemed only right that
he should make inquiries as to the invalid's
condition as early as might be. For his
own part, he did not believe that Mr.
Shaft was very near death, for he had
been surprised by the clearness of the old
man's voice, and his appearance of strength.
I shouldn't wonder if he were to linger
on for some months yet, poor old fellow ! "
he thought. " I wonder whether it would

be possible to get him moved out of those
cramped lodgings."

This again set him wondering whether
Norma was really serious in desiring to
renounce her inheritance, and he determined
to point out to her that if she did
so, she would be depriving her father of
comforts which might very likely prolong
his life, besides showing a somewhat contemptuous
disregard for the last wishes of
one who had supposed himself entitled to
the privileges of a friend. These arguments,
Walter thought, would probably
suffice for their purpose ; for Norma was
always reasonable. Reasonableness is not
exactly what one expects in a woman, nor,
it must be confessed, are reasonable women
often charming into the bargain. It was
just because Norma was both that she
stood apart, and could be compared with
no other human being whom he had ever
met. That, at least, was what he thought ;
but as he would have thought so whatever
her personal qualities might have happened

to be, his opinion was not perhaps worth
much. In any case, thinking* about her
made his walk pleasant to him, added to
which, Mr. Shaft's assertions may have
caused him to feel more hopeful than he
believed himself to be ; so that he reached
his destination in a tolerably cheerful frame
of mind.

The nurse, who opened the door for
him, did not respond to his smile, and
answered his cheerful question of, " Well,
how is Mr. Shaft this morning ? " with a
shake of her head.

It's all over, sir," she said quietly.

You don't mean that he is dead ! "
exclaimed Walter, starting.

Yes, sir ; he passed away in his sleep
just before sunrise. I don't think he spoke
a sensible word after you left yesterday.
He was feverish and wandering for an
hour or two, and then he got off to sleep
and never woke again. One couldn't wish
him to have had a more peaceful end, poor
gentleman ! "

"And Miss Shaft ? " asked Walter,
after a pause.

Oh, she's rather upset, sir ; that was
only to be expected. But of course she
was prepared for what has happened."

Walter reflected for a few moments.
There will be things that must be attended
to," he observed presently, " and I suppose
she has no one to help her. Do you think
she would see me ? "

The nurse thought it doubtful, but said
she would inquire. " What name am I to
say, sir ? "

Walter produced one of his cards, thereby
greatly increasing the interest which the
nurse took in him. That this young
gentleman was an admirer of Miss Shaft's
she had not doubted ; but that he was
nothing less than a marquis was a revelation
to her, and she naturally felt that
admirers of that exalted rank ought not to
be turned away from the door. Nevertheless,
it was thus that she was compelled
regretfully to treat him, after a short

colloquy with Norma. u Miss Shaft said
I was to thank you very much, my lord,"
she announced on her return ; " but she
don't feel equal to seeing any one to-day."
She added, on her own account, " Perhaps
your lordship might be able to call again
tomorrow."

Of course I will," answered Walter ;
but can't you tell me of any way in
which I might be of use at once ? I think,
for instance, that Miss Shaft will probably
wish that her father should be buried in
the country r near their own home, and if
so, somebody ought to see about making
the arrangements."

The nurse believed not. She understood
that the funeral was to take place at the
Crompton Cemetery, and that the doctor
had promised to do what was necessary.
However, I dare say Miss Shaft would
like to talk it over with you, my lord."

And when Walter presented himself on
the following day, Norma was persuaded
to receive him. He found her composed,

but very sad and not at all like herself.
For a long time past she had known that
her father's life hung by a thread ; but she
had not thought much about what would
happen after he should have been taken
from her, and now she was overpowered
by a sense of utter loneliness.

No ; I have no feeling of that kind,"
she answered, when "Walter suggested that
she might wish her father to be laid beside
his ancestors ; " I don't think it matters at
all what becomes of our bodies after weare
dead. And there would be difficulties
and I suppose also expense."

But that is not of so much consequence
now," "Walter ventured to observe.

She passed her hand across her forehead
and sighed wearily : perhaps she did not
care to discuss that point. " I don't think
he would have wished it," she said. " If
it depends upon me, I would rather not."

With regard to all details, however, she
was willing enough to let Walter act for
her, and grateful to him for the matter-of-course

way in which he requested permission
to do so.

If you had any relation at hand, of
course I would not push myself forward,"
he explained ; " but at such times as this
there is always a great deal to be done
which only a man can do, and which you
ought not to be burdened with. I can
undertake that without disturbing you at
all, and any instructions that you may
wish to give me can easily be delivered
through the servants. Now I won't stay
any longer, for I know you are not inclined
to talk."

Probably she would have hesitated more
about accepting his friendly services if she
had felt able to dispense with them ; but
she was really unwell and half stunned by
her loss ; so that she hardly knew what
was expected of her or what her immediate
duties were. After this, he called every
morning, but did not even ask to see her
until the day before that appointed for the
funeral, when he sent in a message to the

effect that he would be glad to speak to
her for a few minutes, if she didn't mind.
She not only did not mind, but was by
this time very anxious to see and thank
him.

You have been more than good tome
! " she exclaimed, as he entered ; " I
don't know what I should have done
without you."

I have only done what was very easy
to me and would have been troublesome
and painful to you," answered Walter.
Of course I wanted to spare you unnecessary
worries, if I could. But now I
have come to worry you a little, because
I must. First of all, about tomorrow :
you would like to be present, would you
not ? "

Oh yes, I should like to be present."

So I supposed ; and I have arranged
accordingly. And afterwards — have you
thought of what you will do ? "

No ; not yet," answered Norma, her
lips quivering a little. " I have tried to

think about it, but I hadn't the courage.
Must I decide at once ? "

I don't think there is any need for you
to make any definite decision for a longtime
to come ; only I am sure you ought
not to stay where you are. It would not
be good for you, and none of your friends
would wish it. So my aunt wants you, if
you will, to go to her in Arlington Street
tomorrow. She has a large house, and
you would have your own sitting-room,
and, in short, you could do exactly as you
please. At this time of year you would be
in no danger of being bothered by visitors.
She begged me to say that if you would
take up your quarters with her until you
could see your way to make some plans
for the future, you would do her a real
kindness. And that isn't merely a polite
message ; it's the simple truth. She would
have come to see you herself, but I told
her I thought you would rather be left
alone until after tomorrow."

"It is very kind of her," answered

Norma doubtfully ; " but I don't know — I
thought she had left town long ago."

Oh, so she did ; but she has come back
again. She often makes her appearance in
London at unexpected times," said Walter,
who did not think it necessary to mention
that he had summoned Lady Spencer from
the country, and that this offer of hospitality
had been instigated by him.

Norma consented without very much
further persuasion. The prospect of returning
to those lonely Chelsea lodgings
had, in truth, been rather terrible to her ;
and she had, besides, a woman's natural
longing to hold a consultation with someone
of her own sex. Lady Spencer was
kind and sensible, and would at any rate
be able to give her disinterested advice
with regard to certain matters as to which
she did not see her way very clearly. She
thought there would be no harm in her
going to Arlington Street for a week, by
the end of which time she would probably
have made up her mind what to do next.

It is not perhaps possible to make a
funeral anything but a lugubrious rite, nor
is the " sure and certain hope " of which
the Burial Service speaks ever likely to
become as prominent in accessories as the
sorrow of survivors ; but in this country
we are gradually emancipating ourselves
from the thraldom of the grotesque, and
Walter, as well as other friends of poor old
Mr. Shaft's, had done what was possible,
by means of an abundance of flowers, towards
lessening the dismalness of a ceremony
which, after all, ought at least not to
be dismal. And what touched Norma to a
degree which these other friends probably
did not at all realize was that they had not
contented themselves with sending wreaths
and crosses, but had journeyed up from
Stourshire in order to pay the last tribute
of respect that they could to their old
neighbour. When, through the mist of
her tears, she saw all those familiar faces
grouped round the open grave — the rosy-cheeked,
white-whiskered squires, the

Rector of Brampton in his surplice, Sir
Christopher Shearman, looking regretful
and subdued — and when she felt the silent
sympathy that their presence expressed, it
seemed to her that the world, which she
had thought so empty, was really full of
dear, kind-hearted people, who had not forgotten
her, though necessity had separated
them from her. She would have liked to
shake hands with them all and say a word
or two to each of them, only she could not
trust herself to speak.

Well, it is not quite certain that they
would have come if they had not received
a hint from their powerful fellow-landowner,
the new Marquis of Loddondale ;
but, at any rate, there they were, and they
were very sorry that poor Shaft was gone,
and very glad to hear that his daughter
had inherited a fortune. No doubt, as
they travelled homewards together in the
afternoon, they discussed the curious
matter of Norma's inheritance, and had
something to say about the almost ostentatious

fashion in which the brother of her
benefactor had assumed the direction of
her affairs. And if the conclusion at
which they professed to arrive was that
the present Lord Loddondale was no fool,
and that he knew better than to let a
good lump of money slip through his
fingers, it may be taken for granted that
they thought none the worse of him on
that account. But Norma, who knew
them all to be good, simple men, did not
know that it is the habit of good, simple
men, when conversing together, to make
themselves out terrible sceptics and to
impute to others motives of action which, if
they really believed in them, would cause
their eyes to start out of their simple heads
with horror.

How kind they all are ! " she exclaimed,
as she drove away from the cemetery with
Walter, who had rather timidly offered to
escort her as far as Arlington Street. " I
hope they did not think me ungrateful.
I wonder whether you could manage to

find an opportunity of thanking them forme?


He could certainly manage so easy a
matter as that, he . said. What was there,
easy or difficult, which he would not have
managed for her ? And what greater
pleasure could she give him than to intrust
him with the carrying out of any of her
wishes ? This, however, he did not say,
being in great fear of seeming to presume
too much. He left her at Lady Spencer's
door, and she was at once conducted upstairs
to a pretty little sitting-room overlooking
the Park. Adjoining it was a
bedroom, in which she found that her
belongings had already been unpacked and
arranged. Nobody disturbed her until
evening, when Lady Spencer put her head
in at the door and asked whether she
might come in.

"I don't know how to thank you,"
Norma began, after the old lady had kissed
her and had sat down beside her.

Then don't do it," Lady Spencer re-vol.

in. 59

turned. " You have nothing to thank me
for, my dear ; you ought to know, if anybody
does, that to be able to be of some
little use to one's neighbours is one of the
luxuries of life. Besides, I hate to be
alone ; and nowadays I am almost always
alone. Not, of course, that I expect you
to see any more of me than you feel
inclined. You are to do just what you
like, please, and have your meals in your
own room, if you prefer it. To-night, at
any rate, I mean to have your dinner sent
up to you, because I know you won't want
to be stared at by the servants''

Norma confessed that if, for once, she
might be allowed to avail herself of that
privilege, she would be grateful. Lady
Spencer did not remain with her much
longer; but before she went to bed her
hostess reappeared, and then the two
women had a talk together, from which
the younger derived a good deal of comfort.


Lady Spencer, it seemed, had heard

about the late Lord Lodclondale's marriage ;
so that Norma could express the contrition
which she felt for the unjust suspicions
that she had entertained of Walter. "I
feel as if I ought to beg his pardon," she
said.

"Well, if you ask me," answered Lady
Spencer, with a slight smile, " I think
perhaps you ought. He will probably
forgive you."

I don't know — I should find it rather
hard to forgive any friend of mine who
had had such thoughts about me. Still,
that is no reason for shirking it. Only "

She paused ; because there was another
obvious difficulty which she did not like to
put into words ; but Lady Spencer spared
her the embarrassment of mentioning it.

I was sure," observed the latter composedly,
" that there was some cause which
didn't appear upon the surface for your
rejection of poor Walter at Venice ; and it
seems that I was right."

But I don't at all wish him to think

that," interposed Norma anxiously ; " if
he thought that that was what I meant, he
would naturally suppose — in fact, I couldn't
speak to him upon the subject at all if
there were any danger of his thinking so."

Oh, well, I dare say he won't think
so," returned Lady Spencer, suppressing
an inclination to laugh. " Indeed, it is
pretty certain that he will think whatever
you want him to think : he generally does."

Norma could only trust that he might ;
but, after all, the limit of any one's influence
over a fellow-creature must be reached
somewhere, and when she mentioned her
feeling that she ought to hand over the
money which had been bequeathed to herby
the late Lord Loddondale to the present
holder of the title, Lady Spencer was unable
to give her any hope of Walter's being
brought to consider such a proceeding
reasonable or feasible.

I quite admit," the old lady said, " that
it is a little awkward for you ; I quite admit
that, when poor Loddondale's will is published,

people will say that he must either
have been engaged to you or have wanted
to marry you (which, to be sure, is the
truth) ; but then I don't see how you can
evade that by giving up what is now yours.
The will exists and can't be altered. My
own opinion, if I may be allowed to offer
it, is that it would be ungracious and ungrateful
on your part to treat the will asa
dead letter. At any rate, if you do so,
you will have to give the money to a
charity ; for it would evidently be impossible
for Walter to accept such a present from
you, even if he wished to accept it."

There was a little further discussion ;
but Lady Spencer did not seem particularly
anxious to enforce her views. " Well," she
ended by saying, " you had better talk it
over with Walter, who is sure to look in
some time tomorrow. You and he must
arrange your differences between you ; I
have noticed that you are neither of you
very amenable to the advice of your friends."

CHAPTER XYIIL

NORMA BEGS PARDON.

I think," observed Lady Spencer to her
nephew, who called upon her on the following
afternoon, " that when you come
to the question of jointure, you ought, injustice
to yourself, to remember that your
wife has already been placed in possession
of a considerable slice out of the family
revenues. Thirty thousand down is a solid
fact, and I don't know how much more
there may not be to follow."

Walter waved away these sordid details
with an impatient gesture. " Do you really
think that there is hope for me, then ? " he
asked eagerly.

"I will go so far as to say that I do,"
replied Lady Spencer; "and what makes

my opinion so valuable is that I didn't
think so at the time when you were more
sanguine. Go upstairs and talk to her ;
she has a great many things to say to you.
Amongst others, she wants, I believe, to
tell you that she cannot possibly take the
thirty thousand pounds in question."

Oh, but she must."

Very well ; it is for you to convince
her of that. At the end of an hour, or
even two hours, you will find me here,
ready to do what I can for you in the way
of congratulations and benedictions. I
wouldn't for the world hurry you ; still,
if you could manage to get things settled
to-day, it would be convenient. You see,
I don't exactly enjoy being in London just
now."

Walter laughed a little nervously. He
did not share his aunt's confident expectations
; for he knew, what people of her
age are rather apt to forget, that love is
not to be commanded by considerations of
expediency, and that the fact of his being

now so eligible a suitor would not influence
Norma in the least in his favour. However,
it was useless to dwell upon such points ;
so presently he went upstairs to try his
fortune for the second and last time.

Norma greeted him with a coldness and
formality which made his heart sink ;
though if he had been in a condition of
mind to study her dispassionately, he
might have taken that as an encouraging
sign. She thanked him for all his kindness
to her, which she said that she could
never forget or hope to repay, and then
added, rather as if she were repeating a
speech which she had learnt off by heart —

I think I ought to tell you now that I
have not at all deserved your friendship,
because I did you a great injustice when we
were in Eome. You remember that article
of Mr. Morley's in the Omniscient Review,
and I dare say you can guess now why I
gave it to you to read. The woman whom
he referred to as having been married and
deserted was, of course, Bessie Green. I

was told that you were her husband —
and I believed it. The least I can do is
to beg your pardon very humbly and very
sincerely. "

I knew nothing about my brother's
marriage until after his death," said Walter.
Then I found among his papers a letter
which he had written to me informing me
of the whole affair. As the woman called
herself Mrs. Walter, and as there was so
much mystery about her husband, I don't
at all wonder that people set me down as
the culprit ; only it seems rather strange
that, knowing all that you did about fine,
you should have thought such a thing
possible."

Norma hung her head. " Yes, of course
it must seem strange to you," she confessed.
It seems strange even to me now — but
.so it was. I didn't wish to believe it ; I
always maintained both to Madge and to
Mr. Morley that the story was untrue."

Mr. Morley and Lady Shearman were
your informants, then ? The next time

that I meet Mr. Morley I will take the
liberty of ducking him in the nearest horse-pond."


Oh no, you mustn't do that," said
Norma, laughing a little ; "he didn't
behave badly about it. He quite thought
that he was telling the truth when he
wrote that article ; and as soon as he
found out that he had made a mistake he
wrote to me and admitted it."

And Lady Shearman ? Well, Lady
Shearman can't be ducked in a horse-pond
or punished in any other way ; though she
can hardly have thought that she was
telling the truth if she asserted that I was
married at the time when I was idiot
enough to propose to her. She, at least,
must have traduced me deliberately."

I am not sure," answered Norma
doubtfully ; " I hope not. But, however
that may be, I ought, as you say, to have
known you better, and I am not surprised
that you can't forgive me."

Did I say I couldn't forgive you ? "

No ; you only implied it. I quite
understand — you feel exactly as I should
in your place. There are mistakes which
are excusable in some people and inexcusable
in others."

But I don't think you do quite understand,
Miss Shaft. Nothing that you
have ever done or are capable of doing
could seem inexcusable to me."

Oh, that is a way of speaking," returned
Norma, with a touch of impatience ;
you think I am a poor sort of friend, and
you are quite right. A good friend doesn't
believe what is palpably false."

"I will tell you what I think," said
Walter : " I think you were so disgusted
with me for assuring you I had loved you
all the time that I fancied myself in love
with Lady Shearman — and yet that was
the truth — that you were ready to believe
worse things of me than I deserved. I
wonder whether you believe even now that
I love you, and that I have never really
loved anv one else ? "

Norma made no answer. The fact was
that he was asking her to believe a good
deal ; though in truth she wished, as we all
do, to believe in the theory of there being-but
one genuine love in any one's life.

However, he meant to have a reply of
some kind from her ; so he went on : "I
told you that I wouldn't abandon hope,
and I haven't quite abandoned it. Still, I
think I can see that unless you accept me
here and now, you never will. There is
just the chance that you might have loved
me if you hadn't been told lies about me —
and it's my only chance. I would rather
hear the best or the worst at once."

He heard neither the one nor the other,
for Norma remained silent ; but everybody
knows that, under certain circumstances,,
silence is more expressive than speech, and
indeed within the space of a very few
minutes Walter had exchanged the tone of
a suppliant for that which more properly
belongs to his sex. Earlier in the day he
would, no doubt, have been shocked at the

bare idea of addressing Norma as a goose ;
yet that was what he called her when she
assured him that she did not mean to take
what she chose to describe as his money.

The money is yours," said he ; " and if
you like to throw it over Westminster
Bridge, of course you are at liberty to do
so. Only the estate would benefit if you
would kindly retain possession of it ;
because then I shouldn't have to make
quite such large settlements upon you.
At least, so my aunt says."

Norma and he had a great many
questions and answers and observations to
interchange, which, since they were of
that kind which has been in use onions
all lovers from time immemorial, had better
not be set down here. It is sufficient to
mention that they arrived at a very perfect
mutual understanding, and that it
took them the best part of two hours
to say what might have been said in five
minutes.

Lady Spencer, patiently occupying herself

with fancy-work downstairs, only
glanced for a moment at her nephew when
at length he reappeared, with bright eyes
and a smile upon his lips. " Well," said
she, " when and where is the ceremony to
take place ? "

Oh, we didn't get quite so far as that,"
answered "Walter, laughing.

Not in all this time ? What on earth
can you have been talking about then ! I
am quite at your orders, of course ; but if
you could make it suit your convenience tolet
me leave London for a month or two, I
should take it as a favour. I have never
been here at this time of year before, and I
humbly hope that I never shall be again.
It is not exhilarating."

Walter assured his aunt that she was
free to go away as soon as she pleased.
Indeed," he added meditatively, "I believe
a complete change and rest would be the
very best thing for Norma just now.
Suppose you were to take her to some
quiet seaside place until the hot weather is

over ? Then I might run down and see
you from time to time."

And my engagements ? " asked Lady
Spencer. " Are you aware that, in order
to oblige you, I have already thrown over
three of my friends ? "

And I'm sure you'll oblige me by
throwing over the rest," returned Walter,
laughing ; " you know very well that
you'll be only too glad of the excuse. You
don't stay in country houses because you
like it, but because you would a little bit
rather submit to the nuisance of that kind
of thing than spend your time quite alone.
"Well, now I'm giving you the chance of
securing the most delightful companion in
the whole world for a good many weeks."

You are kindness itself, and I can't find
words to express my gratitude. Anything
more thoroughly enjoyable than spending
the autumn in seaside lodgings with a
young woman who will be chiefly occupied
in reading and writing love-letters, it
would be difficult to imagine ! One thing,

however, you must clearly understand, and
that is that I cannot and will not stay
through the winter in this country. Therefore
you will either have to he married in
November, or to wait till next spring, or to
find some other old lady to chaperon Miss
Shaft."

Of the three alternatives placed before
him, the first was the one which commended
itself most favourably to "Walter,
and it was also that which, after some
demur on Norma's part, was eventually
acted upon. Lady Spencer did not establish
herself in lodgings anywhere ; but she
found a pretty little house in the Isle of
Wight, whither she induced Norma to
accompany her, and where it may be hoped
that she did not find the time hang too
heavily upon her hands. Her residence
there was enlivened by a good many flying-visits
from her nephew, who entertained
her with a description of the alterations
and improvements which he was hastily
effecting at Warbury Park, which place he

had made his head-quarters for the time
being. He did not, however, mention either
to her or to Norma an interview which he
had had with Lady Shearman. In the
course of it he had made use of some
unequivocal and rather impolite language ;
yet it had been wound up by the conclusion
of a treaty of peace.

Of course," Madge said, u you ascribe
the worst possible motives to me, and I
won't even attempt to convince you that
my one and only object all along has been
to do Norma a service. Still, if you and
she are going to live here for a part of the
year, it seems to me that we had better
make friends, as far as we can, and let
bygones be bygones."

In this view Walter fully concurred.
Probably there is not much love lost
between him and Lady Shearman ; but
they often meet, and always treat one
another with courtesy and consideration.
Sir Christopher entertains a high opinion
of Lord Loddondale, whom he describes as

vol. in. 60

one of the very few men of his acquaintance
who can talk to a pretty woman
without making eyes at her ; and indeed
this encomium would seem to be merited.

The very quiet wedding which was
solemnized in London in the month of
November was attended only by a few near
relations of the contracting parties, and by
Miss Travers, who, to tell the truth, asked
herself. Both bride and bridegroom being
in such deep mourning, it was impossible
to lend to the ceremony the character of a
fashionable event ; and Mr. Basil Morley,
who was present as a mere spectator, not
as an invited guest, subsequently composed
a very touching little poem upon the occasion
under the title of " Orange-blossom
and Crape."

It will be easily understood how these
contradictory emblems were made to harmonize
by the pen of so gifted a writer,
and with what a subtle and dexterous
employment of irony the strains of an
epithalamium were mingled with those of

a dirge. Mr. Morley is a not infrequent
visitor at Warbury Park, and is upon
terms of intimacy with its denizens. He
is fond of saying that he counts it as
one of his highest privileges to call the
Marchioness of Loddondale his friend ; but
perhaps he will never quite forgive himself
for the graceful, yet too hasty manner in
which he resigned all claim upon the hand
of a lady whom neither he nor anybody
else suspected at the time of being an
heiress. He now declares that his life
must needs be one of comparative solitude ;
that, after all, is the inevitable fate of
genius. " Once," he sighs, " and only
once, I thought it might be possible for me
to be as other men are ; I thought that
there was just one person in the world
whose lifelong companionship would be a
help, not a hindrance, to me in my labours.
But that dream has vanished." And so
Norma is left to reflect with bitterness
upon what she has lost.

If one could venture to predict a happy

life for any two people in the world, that
rash prophecy might be made on behalf of
Walter and Norma; for in truth they have
everything to make them happy, and it
would perhaps be unreasonable to deplore
events which have converted one of the
most promising sculptors of the day into a
useful, but not particularly brilliant member
of the Upper House.

/

THE END.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,

LONDON AND Eccles. G., C- &* Co.
