mir4z^i4mmmwm

wmtgamaimmmtaaBasaaaBammiam

l\fo NfEWTH

Wej/oj^/?/^

'r^^-'■ ^'^im,, ,~ ^t^'aC- : .^- S- 't'^^^S^^:>.'f

V- ;< ^. ^.-

r-j /<i, •:?

i:~vz h:^\

ri^yfr^^

O \ . t J J-

<^i>

IS 25

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/nonewthing01norr

BY

W. E. NORRIS

Author OF ' Harmony ' ' MADEMOISELLE DE IIERSAC ' ETC.

IX THREE VOLUMES

YOL. I.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



fall rights reserved]

f V. \



CONTENTS

OF

THE First VOLUME.

PAGE

FRIENDSHIP I

MRS. STANNIFOKTH S Neighbours 36

III. DISTRUST . . 59

IV. THE EISIKG AND THE SETTING SUN . 83
V. THE YOUNG GENERATION 108

- YI. THE wanderer's RETURN 131

t Iii. COLONEL KENYON LOOKS ON 153

^^ VIII.

COOMASSIE VILLA 178

IX, MISS BRUNE's PARTNER 205

•4 X. MR. STANNIFORTH MAKES FRIENDS . . .231

NI. COLONEL KENYON GOES TO CHURCH . , . . 255

^ XII. PHILIP EXEMPLIFIES A THEORY 2S2



k-

sci



NO NEW THING.

CHAPTER 1.

^ FRIENDSHIP.

It is now close upon three thousand years since
an old king in Jerusalem sat down in some
weariness and bitterness of spirit to record his
conviction that nothing new was discoverable
by human wisdom : ' The thing that hath been,
it is that which shall be ; and that which is done
is that which shall be done ; and there is no
new thing under the sun.' A later and less
famous philosopher has added to this that there
is nothing true, together with the comfortable
conclusion that ' it don't signify.' To such
extreme lengths not many of us will be prepared
to go ; but it will be agreed on all hands
that our common mortal nature remains much
the same to-day as it was in King Solomon's
time. Xow, as then, gardens and orchards,
men-singers and women-singers, gold and silver,

VOL. I. B

and all the cleliglits of the sons of men can
bestow nothing but satiety ; now, as then, the
experience of all the past generations is of very
little service to the passing one ; now, as then,
the wise man's eyes are in his head, while the
fool walketh in darkness, and one event happened
to them all ; very much the same vices
and virtues flourish, and meet with very much
the same degree of recognition. And so, when
a small novelist of the nineteenth century takes
up his pen to describe, within the limits of his
small capacity, that infinitesimal section of
humanity which has come under his own
observation, no one, surely — except a very
unreasonable person — will expect his work to
be novel in anything save the name.

The following story, then, will professedly
contain nothing new. The personages who are
to figure in it will be, without exception, unremarkable
personages. There will be good and
bad folks among them ; but none of these will
be very good or very bad, and the events of
their several and joint lives will not be half so
startling as many that may be read of in the
newspapers every day.

It is to be hoped, however, that readers will
not allow themselves to be discouraged by the
candour of this preliminary confession, but will
plod cheerfully on ; and who knows but that,

before they reach the last words of the last
chapter, they may light upon something that
swill be at any rate new to them ? — seeing that
they will not be all of them Solomon. For,
although there be nothing new in the planet
which we inhabit, it by no means follows that
phenomena calculated to fill us with the most
profound astonishment are not daily occurring
upon its surface. Are we not invariably astonished
by some proof that our fellow-creatures
are made of the same clay as ourselves ? Does
not ingratitude, for instance, shock to the full
as much as it angers us, especially when we
suffer personally in consequence of it? When
we are brought face to face with selfishness,
baseness, infidelity, are we not usually as much
surprised at the sorry spectacle as if such failings
had never been heard of before, and as if
we ourselves were wholly exempt from them?
Does any man understand how his neighbour
can be so utterly stupid as to fall a victim to
self-deception ?

All these qualities, and their opposites, will
appear incidentally in the course of the ensuing
pages; so that the fault will lie with the writer,
not with the subject, if no interest is felt in the
persons treated of; the first of whom shall,
without further waste of words, be introduced
upon the scene as he hurries along the platform

B 2

And — here you are, guard.'

Thank you, sir.'

Just lock the door, will you, till we're off ?
I don't want anybody else in here.'

I'll do the best I can, sir,' says the functionary,
making nse of the time-honoured
formula of his genus; and apparently his efforts
to earn five shillings in defiance of the Company's
regulations are crowned with the success
which honest labour merits, for presently the
train glides out of the station with but one
occupant of the carriage in question.

The passenger who had displayed so great a
love of privacy as to require an entire smoking-compartment
for his own use lit a cigar, sighed
heavily once or twice, and dropped into a brown
study, which, judging by the frown on his brow
and the worried expression of his face, must have
had some intricate and perplexing matter for its
starting-point. He was a tall, thin man, whom
some people might have called fine-looking, but
whom no one, probably, would have considered
handsome. He had a pair of pleasant brown
eyes, a nose which was decidedly too large for

beauty, and his mouth was concealed by a long
moustache, which he twisted and tugged in the
course of his meditations. He had in no way
the appearance of a young man, although his
age at this time could hardly have exceeded
three-and-thirty. Some men, as the casual
observer has doubtless noticed, preserve the ways
and the air of youth up to the confines of middle
age ; while others — and these are perhaps the
majority — pass through a transition period which
is neither the one things nor the other. Our
solitary passenger was of the latter class. The
casual observer would scarcely have found anything
sufficiently striking about him to excite
curious speculations as to his identity ; but no
observer, however casual, could have felt one
instant's doubt as to what was his calling in life.
He was a soldier from the crown of his closely-cropped
head to the tips of his well-blacked
boots : and observers with an eye for detail
might even have formed a tolerably confident
guess at the branch of the service to which he
belonged. Had he been an officer of infantry
he would not have had a clearly-defined diagonal
line across his forehead, separating a corner of
white skin from a larger expanse of red-brown ;
a hussar or a lancer would have been more
fashionably, and a plunger more loudly, dressed.
There remain the two scientific corps ; and some

trifling points about this gentleman, such as his
attitude, as he sat slightly sideways, his right
leg tucked under the seat and his left stretched
out stifle before him, seemed to harmonise with
the addresses upon a packet of letters which he
presently drew from his pocket — ' Captain Kenyon,
R.H.A., Aldershot.'

He had read his letters before, for the
envelopes were all torn open; but possibly he
may have desired to refresh his memory by
reading them again. He ran through the first
two or three briskly enough ; they had a legal
aspect, and evidently related to matters of business.
But over the last he lingered for a long;
time, often referring back to words already
perused, breaking off every now and again to
gaze abstractedly out of the window, smiling
faintly sometimes, yet sighing even while he
smiled, and maintaining always the puzzled and
anxious expression of one who has got into a
situation of which the full significance is not yet
clear to him. This letter was written in a
woman's firm, flowing hand, upon paper with a
broad black border, and ran as follows : —

'LoxGBorRXE, Isti August.

My dear Huge, — I ought to have written
before this to thank you for the kind letter which
you sent me four months ago ; but I am sure that

I need not really apologise, and that you will know
that I did not value your sympathy the less because
I could not acknowledge it just at once. If
I could have written to anybody, it would have
been to you. Xow I am quite able to write, and
to talk to you too ; and you need not have any
scruple about discussing the business matters
which you say we must go into, because I want
to hear about them, and to know what my duties
are, and where I am to begin, and all the rest.

And I do very much long to see you. The
others mean to be kind, but they don't understand
; and of course they cannot, never having
had to suffer in quite the same way that I do.
It is only you who have the secret of putting
yourself in everybody's place, and knowing
things that you have never been told, and
could not have been told. Do 3'ou remember
how poor old nurse used to say, '' There's
not a man or woman in Crayminster as can
hold a candle to 'Ugh " ? And then the person
whom she was addressing would simper, and
look down with an air of modest deprecation,
till she explained, ^' Bless your soul, I don't mean
you ! I mean 'Ugh Kenyon." I reminded them
of it yesterday, when we were talking of your
coming down ; and I think they were a little
shocked at my laughing. They think I ought
not to be able to laugh, and at the same time

they talk of the necessity of my '' rousing myself,"
and are in a terrible fright lest I should
^' shut myself up and mope." My father reminds
me that I have many duties and responsibilities
to face, and a career of great usefulness open tome
; and Mr. Langley warns me to beware of
the temptation of a selfish sorrow, and he is
convinced that I should be better in mind and
body if I went to confession. I don't think I
will go to confession ; but of course I should
like to be of use to others, if I can, and I do
wish and intend to put my wretched self out of
sight, and let my neighbours suppose that I have
*' got over " my trouble, as everyone is expected
to do after a tune. But, oh! dear old Hugh,
you know, if nobody else does, that that is quite
an impossibility, and that neither four months,
nor four years, nor any number of years can
make the smallest difference. It won't be the
same Margaret whom you used to chase round
the Precincts when she was a child, and whom
you used to dance with at the county balls when
she was a gawky girl — it won't be that Margaret
who will meet you tomorrow, but another person
altogether, who has somehow got into her skin,
and would give anything to be out of it. I died
when Jack died : that was the end of my happiness
and the end of my life. Only someone,
who is I, and yet not I, has got to live many

years longer in a world wliicli is the old world,
and yet is a totally new one ; for, like auld
Robin Gray's wife, "I'm no like to dee." And soit
is all bewilderment and a puzzle ; and I think,
if anyone can give the clue to it it will be you.
You remember how I used to run to you in all
my little troubles in the old days ; you were
always my best friend. And then you were
Jack's best friend too. I have got a few things
of his to give you — his gun, and a trout-rod, and
some other things. I don't know whether they
are good of their kind ; but I thought you would
like to have them, so I set them aside for you.
It has been such a comfort to me that he made
you his executor. Old Mr. Stanniforth has
written to me : but he seemed to think you
would tell me all that it was necessary for me to
know — and I would very much rather have it
so. I can't tell you what a relief it will be tome
to be able to talk to someone just as I feel.

'I should never have ventured to inflict all
this rambling egotism upon anyone but you, and
perhaps, after now, I won't make even that
exception ; but I know you will forgive it for
this once. I have a great deal to tell you and
ask you about ; but it will be better said than
written.

'Ever your affectionate friend,

Margaret Stanniforth.'

A comfort to her that Jack made me his
executor ! ' muttered Captain Kenyon, as he
restored this letter to his pocket, after having
perused it often enough to have learnt its contents
by heart. ' I hope it may be a comfort to
her, poor thing ! I hope so, I'm sure, with all
my heart. It ain't much of a comfort to me, I
know.'

He sighed, relighted his cigar, which had
gone out, and shifted his place from one side of
the carriage to the other and then back again.
Not that I grudge the trouble, mind you,' he
added, apologetically addressing an imaginary
hearer, ' nor the — the — awkwardness of it ; it

isn't that. But ' He did not finish the

sentence, but presently resumed, in a more
decided and cheerful voice, ' Well, Lord knows
how it will all end ! but for the present my duty
is clear and simple enough; there's some consolation
in that.'

So he gave his broad shoulders a shake, as
though mental burdens could be cast off after
that easy fashion, and, turning to the window,
looked out at the woods and hills and pastures
of the pleasant county where he had been born
and bred, and through which the train was now
rushing. It was a year since he had last gazed
at those familiar scenes and landmarks. Barely
twelve months before he had travelled down

from Aldershot, on just such a sunny summer's
morning, to be present at a gay wedding in
Crayminster Cathedral. It had been his pleasing
duty to act as best man on that occasion, and
the bridegroom had been his old friend. Jack
Stanniforth, and the bride his still older friend
Margaret Winnington, the daughter of the
Bishop. The ceremony had been a grand and
largely attended one, and had created no small
stir in the county, where Mrs. Winnington,
whose eldest daughter had recently been led to
the altar by no less a personage than Lord
Travers, enjoyed that mixture of respect, envy,
and detraction which commonly falls to the lot
of mothers who marry their daughters well.
Jack Stanniforth, to be sure, was hardly so big
a fish as Lord Travers, being not only unconnected
with the aristocracy, but devoid, to all
intents and purposes, of so much as an authentic
grandfather. But then, as everybody remarked,
Kate had been a beauty, whereas Margaret was
really almost what you might call a plain girl,
and the riches of the Stanniforths were understood
to be boundless.

Big fish or little fish, Jack had, as a matter
of fact, been landed by no skill on the part of
his future mother-in-law, but simply by his own
goodwill and pleasure. He had been brought
down into those waters by Hugh Kenyon, who

was thus responsible, if anyone was, for his
subsequent capture ; and it was therefore only
right and proper that Hugh should have been
present, in his best blue frock-coat and with a
sprig of stephanotis in his buttonhole, to stand
behind the bridegroom on the auspicious day.

Of old Mr. Stanniforth, the wealthy Manchester
merchant, who dwelt in a palace near
the city in which he had made his fortune, and
who rarely stirred beyond his own park gates,
Crayminster knew nothing and London very
little; but his two sons had the privilege of a
large acquaintance in the metropolis and beyond
it, and were as popular as rich, well-mannered,
and modest men are sure to be. Tom, the elder,
had for some time sat as one of the members fora
large manufacturing borough ; Jack, the
younger, had entered a smart hussar regiment,
and had disported himself therein, during the
early years of his youth, to the satisfaction of
himself and his brother-officers, and to the
intense admiration of the opposite sex, until he
had added to all his other charms the crowning
one of inheriting unexpectedly a large fortune
by the death of a maternal uncle. Upon this he
had sent in his papers ; and almost immediately
afterwards, having happened to go down to
Crayminster with his friend Kenyon, had seen
Margaret, had fallen in love with her, and, after

a very brief courtship, had proposed and been
accepted.

Little as Captain Kenyon had foreseen such a
result of his introduction of the ex-hussar to the
Bishop's family, his share in bringing it about
was not the less gratefully and magnanimously
acknowledged by Mrs. Winnington. ^ Dear
Hugh,' she had said, in her most benign manner,
I shall never forget, and I am sure Margaret
will never forget, that her happiness has come to
her through you.' And this compliment should
have been the more agreeable to its recipient,
inasmuch as Mrs. Winnington had not always
been used to address him in so friendly a tone.
Of course — as she would often explain to her
intimates — she was devoted to dear old Hugh,
and during the lifetime of his uncle the Dean,
he had almost lived in the house, and had been
quite like a son to herself and an elder brother
to her daughters ; but now that Kate and
Margaret were growing up, one really had to bea
little more careful ; because people would talk,
and there was no saying what preposterous notions
men might not get into their heads if
proper precautions were not taken to nip such
notions in the bud. There had, therefore, been
occasions upon which a sense of duty had led
Mrs. Winnington to turn the cold shoulder to
her dear old Hugh, and to point out to him with

somewhat unnecessary emphasis how great was
the disparity of years been him and the young
ladies to whom he had been ' quite like an elder
brother.' Now a glance at Hart's Army List
would have disclosed the fact that Jack Tannin
was only Captain Kenyon's junior by a
year; but, as has been already remarked, some
men are young up to the verge of middle age,
while others have ceased to be so before they are
out of the twenties ; and Jack certainly belonged
to the former and Hugh to the latter category.
He had, indeed, been so long accustomed to hearing
himself addressed as ' old Hugh ' that he had
ended by accepting the adjective in its literal
sense and acquiescing in its propriety ; nor had
he failed to join in the laughter which arose
from all sides when the bridegroom, in returning
thanks at the wedding-breakfast, had expressed
a hope that his best man would soon
follow his bright example. Old Hugh was so
evidently a predestined old bachelor.

Immediately after the wedding the young
couple had started for Switzerland and Italy,
upon a tour which was prolonged stir beyond
the limits of ordinary honeymoon, the excuse
for their protracted absence being that their
new home could not possibly be made ready to
receive them in less than six months at earliest.
This new home was that fine old place Long-bourne,

near Crayminster, for many generations
the residence of the Brine family. It had come
into the market some years previously, owing to
the necessitous circumstances of the owner,
and had found a purchaser in Mr. Stanniforth
of Manchester. What could have been Mr.
Stanniforth's object in acquiring an estate which
he had scarcely seen and showed no disposition
to occupy was a puzzle to everybody, until the
construction of the Crayminster and Cambridge
branch line, which cut through an angle of
the property, with satisfactory results to the
pocket of its new owner, seemed to throw
some light upon the mystery. Now, the old
gentleman, in an easy and princely fashion, had
offered Longbourne as a wedding gift to his
second son, stipulating only that he should be
allowed to put the place in order before the bride
and bridegroom took possession of it. They,
for their part, were nothing loth to consent to an
arrangement which promised them a somewhat
longer holiday under southern skies ; and so
architects and artists, landscape-gardeners, stone-masons,
and upholsterers, had come down from
London in a small army, and had busied themselves
throughout the winter in beautifying the
house and grounds, which were destined never to
be enjoyed by those for whose sake all this expense
and trouble had been incurred. For, one

afternoon, Jack Stanniforth, a strong man, who
had scarcely known what illness was in the
course of his merry life, rode back to Some
feeling tired and chilled after hunting on the
Campagna ; and the next day he took to his bed ;
and before the week was out he was dead and
buried.

Under the shock of this sudden and terrible
calamity the young Avidow had fallen into a sort
of stupor, which at first caused considerable
alarm both to her friends and to her medical
advisers. The latter had enjoined absolute rest,
change of scene, a bracing atmosphere, and whatnot
— since doctors, when they are called in, must
needs enjoin something — and Mrs. Winnington
had hastened out to Italy, and had taken her
daughter, passive and indifferent, to the Engadine.
After a time Margaret had rallied, had returned,
by her own desire, to England, and had taken up
her residence at Longbourne, where it now
became necessary that Hugh Kenyon should seek
her out, in order to explain to her the provisions .
of her husband's will, under which he and the
dead man's father had been appointed executors
and trustees.

Such was the condensed tragedy of which the
details passed quickly through Captain Kenyon's
mind, as he sat looking out of the railway
carriage window. And as he remembered it all,

and low, only the other day, he had travelled
over the same ground on his way down to the
wedding, and how, but a few months before that,
Margaret had not even seen the man who was to
be her husband, he could not help saying to himself
that it was impossible that so brief an episode
however terrible it mio-ht be — should cast a
permanent gloom over a young life.

It isn't the same thing,' he mused, ' it can't
be the same thing, as losing a husband or a wife
after twenty years of married life. That would
be like having: an arm or a les: cut ois — there
would be something o-one from one which one
could never forget nor replace. But this — well,
this is more like having a tooth out; a wrench
and a howl, and all's over.' Then, repenting of
having used so homely a metaphor, even in
thought, he muttered sadly, ' Poor Jack — poor
old fellow!'

Presently the train drew up in Crayminster
station, and a groom in mourning livery came to
the door and touched his hat. The dog cart was
waiting outside, he said, and was there any
luggage, please ? No ; Kenyon answered, there
was no luggage ; he was going back that same
evening. He climbed into the dog cart, but
declined to take the reins. With an odd sort of
pang and feeling of compunction, he had recognised
the cart as one that Jack used to drive, and

VOL. I. c

the horse as one of his friend's old hunters. As
the vehicle clattered through the narrow streets
of the old town, more than one pedestrian nodded
and waved his hand to its occupant ; but Hugh,
who kept his eyes obstinately fixed upon his
boots, sav none of these friendly signals. He
knew that by no possibility could he traverse
Crayminster on any day of the week without
encountering at least a dozen acquaintances ; and
he was afraid of being stopped and questioned.
Therefore he would not look up, and was relieved
when he had left the town behind him and was
well out into the open country.

Half an hour's drive, at first-across broad
water-meadows and then through woods and up
a long; gradual incline, brought him to the loose
gates of Longbourne — new" gates and a new
lodo:e, as Huoii observed. He had known the
place well in the late Mr. Brune's time, and was
prepared to find it altered, not altogether for
the better, by the touch of the Manchester millionaire.
It appeared, however, that Mr. Stan-north's
taste, or the taste of those employed
by him, had been better than Hugh had anticipated
; for the alterations were not conspicuous,
and such as there were were of a kind to which
exception could not be taken. In the undulating
park and in the long avenue of lime-trees
which was the pride of Longbourne there was

no room for change ; only the gardens had been
extended and improved ; new lawns and terraces
had been laid ont, and brilliant masses and ribbons
of colour replaced the scanty and ill-tended
lower-beds of former years. The house itself,
a red-brick structure, which, like most country-houses
of its date, was said to have been built
after designs of Indigo Jones, showed no traces
of interference, except in so far as that its white
stone facings had been renewed or cleaned ; no
plate-glass had superseded the many panes of
the large oblong windows, nor was the long flat
facade disfigured by any modern bows or bays.
But when once the hall door was passed,
Hugh found himself upon totally unknown
ground. Under the Brune regime the furniture
of the mansion had been meagre and its
servants few; now there was perhaps rather a
superabundance of both. The entrance-hall was
embellished with antlers, with old carved-oak
chests and cabinets, with huge vases of Oriental
china and with arm-chairs in stamped leather.
The drawing-room, into which Hugh was
ushered, had been despoiled of its tarnished
gilding, its brocade and three-pile Axminster;
and in lieu of these departed glories was a more
sober style of decoration ; subdued colouring ; a
few paintings by old Dutch masters ; chairs,
sofas, and tables more valuable than resplendent.

c 2

Everything was perfectly correct — a little too
correct, Hugh thought ; for at the time with
which we are concerned correctness of upholstery
had not yefc become the chief aim and object
of the British householder. The place
looked a trifle cold and stiff and uninhabited ;
and over the whole establishment there brooded
the solemn hush of wealth.

While Captain Kenyon was proceeding with
his unspoken criticisms the door opened, and a
tall, slim woman, dressed in widow's weeds,
entered, and held out her hand to him saying,
How do you do, Hugh ? ' in a low, quiet voice.
Though he could hardly have been unprepared for
the appearance of this lady, he started as violently
as if he had seen a ghost, and, finding not a
word to say, grasped her hand silently, while he
looked into her face with an eager, questioning
gaze.

The face that he scanned so anxiously was
not beautiful, nor even pretty. For one thing,
it was extremely pale, with that grey pallor
which comes only from illness or suffering ;
and, as is often the case with fair-complexioned
women, the powerlessness was not confined to
the cheeks, but seemed to have extended to the
hair and eyes, the former of which ought to
have been, but was not, golden, while the latter
ought to have been, but were not, blue. An

old-fashioned passport would probably have
summed up the remaining features tersely with
forehead high, nose ordinary, mouth rather
large.' It was, however, an honest, trustworthy,
and kind face — a face which all dogs
and children, and some discriminating adults,
understood and loved at the first glance. Margaret
Stanniforth had never been accounted a
beauty, yet she had never lacked admirers ;
and, when in the glow of youth and health,
she might even have passed for a pretty girl,
had she not happened to be the plain one of a
family somewhat notorious for good looks. For
the rest, she had a good figure ; she carried her
head well, as all the "Winningtons do, and she
had, as they all have, a certain undefinable
grace and air of good breeding.

The sight of her in those deep mourning
robes almost unmanned the soft-hearted Hugh ;
and, instead of one of the brisk little cheerful
speeches which he had rehearsed on his way
from the station, he blurted out something awkward
and incoherent, at last, about never having
thought he should meet her again like this ; but
she had the quiet ease of manner which belongs
to unselfish people, and she gave him time to
recover himself by talking about the proposed
restoration of the cathedral, and her father's
speech in the House of Lords, and other matters

which could be treated of without danger of disturbance
to anyone's equanimity.

Are you all alone here ? ' Hugh asked at
length,

I am now. I had two of the boys with me
until yesterday ; but they have gone back to
school.' She added after a pause, ' My mother
is very kind, and would stay with me as long as
I liked ; but of course she is wanted at home ;
and, as I shall have to be a great deal by myself
in future, I thought it was better to begin at
once.'

She spoke without a tremor in her voice,
quite calmly and almost coldly ; and Hugh was
just the least bit in the world disappointed and
chilled. Her speech was so very unlike her
letter, he thought. But then the speech of
most people is unlike their letters. Presently
luncheon was announced, and he had to seat
himself opposite Mrs. Stanniforth in a diningroom,
or rather dining-hall, which would
have accommodated fifty guests comfortably.
He had hoped that a cover might have been
laid for him beside her, for he had an uncomfortable
feeling about occupying Jack's place ; but
the butler had probably omitted to take this
delicate scruple into account. The repast was
prolonged and very dreary. The table, though
narrowed to its smallest dimensions, was still a

long one ; and Hugh and Margaret laboriously
kept up conversation in a high key across it,
conscious all the time of being furtively watched
by a discreet butler and two stealthy giants in
mourning livery. Hugh thought to himself that,
if he were Margaret, and if he were compelled
to eat his meals every day with three respectful
pairs of eyes G.xed upon him, he should infallibly
go out of his senses in less than a week.

Perhaps she guessed what was passing
through his mind ; for, as soon as they were
alone, she said, laughing a little, ' Those servants
are a terrible ordeal to me. I found them here
when I arrived : Mr. Stanniforth had supplied
them, with the furniture and the carriages and
all the rest. I am hoping that you will tell me
I must dismiss at least two of them.'

Oh, I don't think there will be any need
for that,' answered Hugh.

No ? So much the worse for me, then.
Shall we oro back to the drawing-room now, and
get our business talk over ? '

Jack Stanniforth's will was a portentous
document of the old-fashioned pattern, drawn
up for him by his father's lawyers and signed by
him on his wedding day. The effect of it —
there being; no child born of the marriage — was
that, subject to the usual restrictions, his widow
took a life-interest in all his property, real and

personal ; which, together with her settlements,
would five her an income of from fourteen to
fifteen thousand a year. But it took Captain
Kenyon some little time to state this simple
fact. He was a man of an orderly and somewhat
slowly-moving mind ; and he thought it
incumbent upon him to explain the will, clause
by clause, going into many details which his
hearer only half understood, and with which it
is needless that the reader should be wearied.

'Fifteen thousand a year! ' ejaculated Margaret,
with a sigh, when he had at last reached
his conclusion ; ' that sounds an enormous sum
of money.'

Well, yes ; it is a large sum. Not so large
as it might have been, if we had not been so
tied down as to investments ; still '

Still, enough to live upon with strict
economy,' interrupted Margaret, with a slight
laugh. ' Hugh,' she added suddenly, ' do you
know what I should like to do ? '

Yes ; you would like to give away the
whole of it to somebody without loss of tune.'

Not exactly that ; but I should like to
give Longbourne away ; or at least to restore it
to its proper owner.'

To Mr. Stanniforth, do you mean ? '

'No; to the Brunes. It really belongs to
them, you know ; we have no right to the place.

Jack felt that very strongly, and he did not at
all like the idea of coming to live here. He
always used to say that Mr. Brune had been
deprived of his property by an unfair bargain.'

'Hardly that, I think. Of course it was a
bit of bad luck for him. If he had held on a
little longer, the railway would have put him
pretty nearly straight, I suppose ; but no one
could have foreseen that at the time of the sale.'

Margaret was silent. 'At all events,' she
said presently, ' I want to let him have his own
back now, if it can be managed.'

But, my dear Margaret, it cannot possibly
be managed.'

Why not ? '

For many good reasons ; but one of themis
final. The place is not yours to dispose of.
I am afraid I must have explained matters very
stupidly ; but the fact is that you are only a
tenant for life.'

It is I who was stupid ; I ought to have
listened more attentively. And what becomes
of Longbourne after my death ? '

Well, then it goes, with the rest of the
property, to Tom Stanniforth or his heirs.'

Tom Stanniforth will have more money
than he will know what to do with,' observed
Margaret. ' I am sure he would willingly surrender
his chance of inheriting Longbourne.'

I am not miicli of a lawyer ; but I almost
doubt whether he could. In any case, Mr.
Brune would not be very likely to accept a gift
of an estate from a stranger; and he could not
buy it back. I used to see the elder brother
sometimes in years gone by : this one I hardly
knew ; but from what I have heard of him, I
should think he was about the last man in the
world to whom one could venture to propose
such a things.'

Margaret rose, and walked to the window.
Ah, well,' she said, ' it was only an idea of
mine ; I scarcely expected to be able to carry it
out. But, Hugh, I feel almost certain of one
thing: I shall never be able to go on living
here.'

Hugh wrinkled up his forehead, and looked
distressed. If he had felt free to speak out
plainly the thought that was in his mind, he
would have answered, ' I'm sure you won't.
Flesh and blood couldn't stand it'. But women
are .so uncertain, and so prone to act upon
impulse : and it is not always wise or kind to
show all the sympathy that one may feel.
Upon the whole, it seemed best to reply, ' I
wouldn't do anything in a hurry, if I were
you.'

Margaret went on, as if she had not heard
him. ' It isn't the solitude that I mind ; I

could be contented enough in a little cottage,
with a cook and a housemaid to look after me ;
but I was never meant to rule over a large
establishment. The small worries of it suffocate
me. One would think that a great sorrow, like
mine, ought to make one indifferent to small
worries ; but somehow or other it doesn't.
You would be amused if you knew how
frightened I am of the servants. There is an
old housekeeper, a Mrs. Prosser, who was hereunder
Mr. Brune, and who took care of the
house all the time that it stood empty, after Mr.
Stanniforth bought it. I am obliged to have an
interview with her every morning, and she is
very respectful and deferential ; but of course
she looks upon me as an interloper, and she hasa
way of standing with her hands clasped before
her, turning one thumb slowly over the other
and staring at me with her little black eyes,
which makes me so nervous that I hardly know
what I am saying to hers

Give her the sack.'

I don't think I should ever dare. And
there would be no excuse for sending her away
either; for, as far as I can judge, she is an
admirable housekeeper. Besides, the butler
and the coachman are quite as bad in their way.
Sometimes I have thought of entering a sisterhood.
Would that be very wrong, do you
think?'

I don't think it would be wrong answered
Hugh slowly ; ' but '

Yes ; I know there are a great many buts ;
too many for me to think, except in a vague
sort of way, of doing such a thing as yet. I
keep it as a last resource — in case I should find
my life quite unbearable.'

Captain Kenyon had risen, and was standing
beside her at the window now.

Oh, Hugh,' she said suddenly, clasping her
hands round his arm, ' what am I to do ? What
am I to do with my life ? '

My dear,' he answered, greatly moved and
full of pity, yet quite unable to express what he
felt, ' how can I tell you ? You must have
patience. When things go wrong with us,
there is nothing for it but patience.'

After all, it is seldom by speech that a sense
of sympathy and friendship is conveyed. Perhaps
no eloquence could have given Margaret more
comfort than these few words from a friend
who was himself always patient, always brave,
and whose life had been full of petty troubles,
arising for the most part out of the lack of that
which she found so heavy a burden.

I will try,' she said, straightening herself
up. ' Only it seems to me that it would be so
much easier if I were not rich. Everybody
keeps repeating to me that money is such a

blessing, and that I ought to be so thankful for
it ; and yet what can it do for me ? Nothing —
absolutely nothing I '

It is at least so far a blessing that it brings
independence with it

But if one does not want to be independent
? I am one of those weak people who are
born to be subordinates and to be told their
duty day by day. Is there no way in which I
could rid myself of this enormous income ? '

I'm afraid not. You see, the will says —
let me see ; where is it ? Oh, here — " Trusts." '
And Hugh began reading, in a hurried, mumbling
voice — ' ''To be received by her my said
wife for her own use and benefit during her life
or until she shall marry again or until she shall
sell assign mortgage or charge or otherwise
incumber the same or attempt so to do or shall
do or suffer or become subject or liable to some
act proceeding matter or thing whereby the
same interest dividends and annual produce if
payable to her absolutely for her life would
become vested in or payable to some other
person or persons Provided nevertheless and

Oh, never mind,' interrupted Margaret,
with a half laugh. 'I quite understand that
there is no legal way out of the difficulty.' And
she wondered why a slight flush had mounted

into Hugh's brown cheeks while he had been
reading, and why he looked so oddly, and was
such a long thine in folding up the big document
again.

How could she tell that he had loved her
almost from her childhood ? How could she
tell that her marriage to his friend had shattered
all his hopes and day-dreams ? How could she
tell that that possibility of her re-marriage, contemplated
as a mere formality by the will, was
one that, despite poor Hugh's honest efforts to
banish it from his mind, was forcing its way
thither every day and every hour ? These were
secrets which Captain Kenyon had hitherto
successfully kept, and was likely to continue to
keep, to himself If, in the depths of his heart,
he had begun to look forward to some remote
future time, at which Margaret, having read
and re-read this dark page of her life, might
find that the power was still in her to open a
fresh one, and if he had heard with a certain
inward exultation of her anxiety to be free,
from that wealth which must needs be hers so
loDo- as the bore the name of Stanniforth, he
was sincerely ashamed of such thoughts, and
did his best to stifle them. For he had been
loved and trusted by the man who was dead ;
he was trusted, and in a manner also loved, by
the dead man's widow ; and to be guilty of an

unspoken treachery to either of them was what
he could not bear without self-reproach.

But if the tongue is an unruly member, the
brain is a substance yet more unruly, and is
wont to assert its independence after a specially
vexatious fashion when it receives direct orders
from the wilL Therefore this conscientious
executor and compassionate friend was' ill at
ease, and discharged himself of his double
functions in an awkward, guilty, and half-hearted
manner. He fancied, at least, that he
was doing so ; as a fact, he could hardly have
shown greater kindness to Margaret than by
abstaining, as he did, from counsel or consolation,
and by listening to her in silence while
she told him of the incidents of her short wedded
life and of the swift catastrophe which had
closed it. She shed no tears ; she had a low,
pleasantly-modulated voice ; she talked so calmly
that it might almost have been the story of
another woman's life that she was relating.
Pacing by her side along the shady lawns, he
heard her with a mixture of pleasure and pain
and hopelessness. He knew — though she never
said so — that he was the first person to whom
she had spoken so openly since her husband's
death ; he knew that she was treating him with
a confidence which she would not have reposed
in her father or mother; but this knowledge

made him neither more sanguine nor less
remorseful.

• You will come and see me again soon,
won't you ? ' she asked, when the time came
for him to bid her good-bye. And he answered
hurriedly, ^ Yes ; as soon as I can — that is, as
soon as you please. I can almost always get
away for a day now ; and you know you can't
give me greater pleasure than by sending forme
whenever you want me.'

Nevertheless, as he drove away, he hoped
that no very speedy summons from her would
reach him. Such advice or assistance as it was
in his power to give her would be more easily
and safely conveyed by letter than by word of
mouth, he thought ; and it even occurred to
him once or twice to regret that he had not
effected an exchange to India which had been
upon the point of arrangement when the news
of Jack Stanniforth's death and his own appointment
as executor had caused him to
abandon the project.

On the platform he encountered the Bishop
of Crayminster, who was on his way to hold a
series of confirmations in neighbouring towns,
and who hurried up to him with trembling hands
outstretched.

Ah, my dear Kenyon, my dear friend, this
is a sad meeting ! You have been with our

poor Margaret— poor dear I — poor dear I How
little we anticipated this a year ago ! '

The Bishop of Crayminster was a tall, thin
old gentleman, with a weak, handsome face, blue
eyes, and white hair. He spoke habitually in
tremulous lachrymose accents, addressed all menas
' my dear friend,' was greatly beloved by the
clergy of his diocese and commiserated by their
wives, who asserted that i\Irs. Winston ruled
him with a rod of iron.

I should like much to have a few minutes'
conversation with you,' he said, casting an imploring
glance at his chaplain, who discreetly
got into a carriage lower down in the train,
leaving Hugh to enter the empty compartment
which had been reserved for the Bishop.

And how did you find her ? ' asked the
latter, when the train had begun to move.
Sadly altered, I fear : terribly shaken and
bowed down ? '

AY ell, no,' answered Hugh, 'I can't say that
she struck me as being exactly that. Of course
she feels the loneliness of her position a good
deal, and the — the weight of her wealth, you
know.'

All yes, dear me, yes ! Riches are indeed
a doubtful blessing. But we must not repine.
Poverty is perhaps a more severe trial.'

Perhaps it is.'

VOL. 1. D

In some ways — in some ways. I don't
know what she will do with herself, poor child

^ She spoke of entering a sisterhood,' Hugh
remarked.

The Bishop threw up his white hands in dismay.
' A sisterhood ! Oh, my dear friend, I
trust you dissuaded lier from taking so serious
a step as that.'

Oh, I don't think she contemplated it very
seriously. In time, I dare say, she will learn
to stand alone ; but it comes a little hard upon
a woman just afc first.'

It does — it does indeed. Her mother thinks
of course it is early days yet to speak of anything:
of the kind : but mothers will look forward
— she thinks that dear Margaret may
eventually marry again. Perhaps we ought to
hope that it may be so. I doubt whether our
dear Margaret's shoulders are broad enough to
bear the cares of life unaided.'

If she does marry again, she will be delivered
from the cares of a large fortune,' said
Hugh bluntly. 'Her interest in Stanniforth's
estate terminates with her death or re-marriage.'

Eh ?— really ? I don't think Mrs. 
— I — er — I did not understand that. Is
it not rather an — unusual arrangement ? '

I believe not at all.'

Ah, well *, I am very ignorant of such

matters — very ignorant. Can this be Cambridge
already ? Yell, my dear friend, I must bid you
goodbye. I trust we shall see you in these
parts again before Long. Dear Margaret, I
know, leans very much upon your help and
advice ; and I am sure you will advise her
wisely

The Bishop had taken Hugh's big brown
hand, and was patting it paternally. ' We must
trust to time and Providence,' he said, ' and not
try overmuch to rule the destinies of others.
For my own part, I am disposed to be of St.
Paul's mind with regard to widows. The are
happier if they so abide — happier if they so
abide.'

And with that, his lordship descended slowly
to the platform, and shuffled away on his chaplain's
arm.

D ti

CHAPTER II.

MRS. STANNIFORTH's NEIGHBOURS.

The venerable city of Craymiiister stands in a
vast hollow. From the neighbouring heights
its gabled roofs may be seen huddled together
in a compact phalanx round the cathedral towers,
having changed little in aspect or area in the
course of the last hundred years or so, and having
only thrown out here and there an outpost
in the shape of a detached suburban villa. The
slow-flowing Cray intersects the town and winds
down the long; valley, through water-meadows
where cattle crop the rich grass, and over which
light mists usually hang in summer and cold
fogs in winter. The valley of the Cray does not
indeed bear a high character for salubrity, and
the strangers who are attracted to Crayminster
by the fame of its ancient cathedral seldom carry
away with them a favourable impression of the
surrounding district. For when, having duly
admired the Lady chapel, descended into the
crypt, and climbed the tower, they escape from

the hands of the verger into those of the flyman,
the latter, whose generic instinct leads him to
shirk up-hill work, commonly suggests to them
a nice drive along one of the excellent turnpike
roads which leave the town either by the eastern
or western gate, and pass through mile after mile
of flat, fertile, and monotonous country, where
sleepy silence reigns, where there are but few
habitations, and those of an unpretending and
eminently unpicturesque order.

But if, instead of following these rather
dreary thoroughfares, they were to strike off due
north or dne south, they would And themselves
almost immediately in a higher, healthier region,
a region of low, rolling hills and leafy coverts, a
region of hop-gardens and waving cornfields and
frequent hamlets, diversified by glimpses of parklands
and old timber — for properties do not run
to any great size hereabouts, and the squirearchy
rules in force — a region rich in pleasant mansions
and substantial, prosperous-looking farmhouses.


Near the high-road, some two miles beyond
Longbourne, is a long, low edifice, which can
hardly be said to come under either of the above
denominations. The paddocks which surround
it could not, by any stretch of courtesy, be made
to do duty for a park; adjoining it are barns and
ricks and a large strawyard, while the sunny

slope of the hill behind it is occupied by a well-filled
orchard in the place of terraces and shrubberies.
These and other indications sufficiently
show its tenant to be a farmer; but, on the
other hand, the house itself has an air of comfort
and refinement somewhat above the aspirations
of an ordinary yeoman. This house, known as
Broom Leas Court, had at the time with which
we are concerned been for a good many years
owned by Mr. Xeville Brune, and inhabited by
him and his numerous family. It would be
difficult to give an accurate description of it.
It had been constructed bit by bit as occasion
had seemed to require, and as funds to pay the
builder had been forthcoming, and was a complete
architectural jumble. Here was a fragment
of the original structure, with gables, overhanging
upper storey, latticed casements and
black beams upon plaster of a yellowish-white
tinge ; there a modern bay, with French widows
opening upon the lawn; every kind of building
material seemed to have been employed, brick
in one place, stone in another, stucco in a third;
over all was a mantle of ivy, of swaying
Virginia-creeper and clematis.

A great deal of money had been spent, first
and last, upon the creation of this queer
domicile, for Neville Brune had the family
incapacity for doing anything cheaply, and the

family dislike to being worried by sraall economical
details. "With the fortune which, he had
inherited from his father — a very respectable
one for a younger son — he had purchased and
stocked the Broom Leas farm; there he had
dwelt ever since, and there, to all appearance, he
was now likely to end his days.

A gentleman who adopts farming as a trade
is, by common consent, only a step removed
from the proverbial fool who chooses to be his
own lawyer; and Xeville Bruno's friends and
neighbours, who were acquainted with his
hereditary failings, smiled and shook their heads
when they heard after what fashion he proposed
to make his living. A considerable time, however,
elapsed, during which he lived, not
extravagantly, yet with a certain careless profusion
of expenditure, and if he did not make
his fortune, neither did he figure in the Gazette.
Then he married Miss Boulger, the daughter of
a rich banker, and began those building operations
which were long the delight of his life,
and which were renewed intermittently, year
after year, to meet the retirements of a
rapidly increasing family. It was rumoured
that Mr. Brune was getting into difficulties,
when his elder brother and his father-in-law died
suddenly within a few days of one another.
Either of these events might have been expected

to convert him into a much richer man, but it so
happened that neither of them did produce that
desirable effect, for the old banker bequeathed
to his daughter a thousand pounds, her mother's
jewels, and nothing more; and Mr. Brune the
elder, who had been a very eccentric and
expensive personage, living much in foreign
countries, and squandering money through every
channel whereby money can be squandered, left
his affairs in such inextricable confusion, and his
estate so heavily encumbered, that Longbourne
seemed likely to prove a white elephant to the
heir. It was always Neville Brune's way to
make up his mind quickly, after holding counsel
with himself and with nobody else. He saw
clearly that neither he nor his son would ever
be able to live at Longbourne. To let it would
be a mere protracting of misery and putting off
of the evil day; moreover, he wanted ready
money badly. He therefore determined to offer
the place for sale, and it Alas immediately
snapped up by Mr. Stanniforth.

No sooner had this decisive act been accomplished
than there arose up to heaven such a
weeping and wailing from the numerous collateral
Brunes, to whom Longbourne had ever been
as the Palladium to the Trojans, that the luckless
head of the family was like to have been
deafened by the din of it. L^ncle John and

Uncle James, Aunt Harriet and Aunt Elizabeth
not to mention a host of cousins far and near,
all wrote to say that they could find no words
adequate to express their horror of the sacrilege
which had been committed. Sooner would they
have starved, sooner would they have united
their own small means and purchased the estate
between them, than that it should have passed
into the hands of a stranger. x\nd, great as
had been the wrath of these worthy people at
the outset, it was naturally increased tenfold
when that windfall of the Crayminster and
Cray bridge railway went to swell the already
overflowing money bags of the infamous Tannin
Then it was that the insane — the
indecent precipitancy of Neville's conduct cried
aloud for denunciation. Then it was that Aunt
Elizabeth, in an eloquent and breathless letter,
drew a parallel between her nephew and Esau,
and predicted that his ill-gotten gains would
prosper no better than those of Ananias. Nor,
unhappily, was it only by reproaches from without
that the delinquent was made to feel the
heinousness of his guilt. Mrs. Brune, who had
once been pretty and fond of society, who had
always detested a rural life, and had consoled
herself through long years of monotony with
an undefined expectation of one day escaping
from it, considered that she had a strong case

against destiny. Being blessed with high
principles and a fine sense of duty, she could
not breathe a word reflecting upon the memory
of her father, and for the same unexceptionable
reasons she refrained from bringing railing
accusations against her husband ; but neither
principle nor duty forbade her to sigh over the
loss of Longbourne, and accordingly her life
became, so to speak, one protracted sigh. She
had long wanted a grievance, and now that she
had got one, she did not stint herself in the
indulgence of it. Xever a day passed without
some reference being made by her to the fallen
fortunes of the Brunes. Her children were
taught to regard themselves as despoiled and the
Stanniforths as their despoilers ; and her husband,
who would fain have allowed the whole matter
to pass into the category of those misfortunes
which, being irreparable, are best not talked
about, was soon driven to recognise the impracticability
of such a course. Mrs. Brune was a
weak, plaintive, and disappointed woman, much
given to religious exercises and to breakfasting
in bed. Her health was bad, and so perhaps
was her temper; but as the latter defect did not
manifest itself in any of the recognised fashions,
she passed pretty generally for a martyr, and
was as much commiserated as she was respected
by the entire parish.

From all this it will be seen that the world
had not gone altogether well with Neville Brie,
but he was not one of those who cry out when
they are hurt, nor had anyone ever heard him
complain of his luck. Acquaintance with disappointment
had net soured his strong and
sweet nature, but had bred in him a disposition
to make the best of things, an increased enjoyment
of the woods and fields, and a kindly
humour which was not always understood by
those of his own household. It had not been
without a sharp struggle that he had brought
himself to part with the old home where he had
been born, and where the happiest years of his
life had been spent; but of this he had said
nothing. Only — unlike Mrs. Brune, who,
through the long period during which Long-bourne
had remained untenanted, had loved to
wander among its silent paths and gardens like
a Peri at the gates of Paradise — he had never
once set foot upon the property since it had
ceased to be his. At the time when this story
opens he was a small, spare, wiry man of forty
or thereabouts, dark complexioned and a trifle
stern of aspect, as his father had been before
him, but by no means stern of character. He
had a trick of looking straight into the face of any
person whom he might be addressing, which
sometimes gave offence, and which was certainly

rather embarrassing, for this grey eyes were as
keen as a hawk's; but, in truth, he meant no
offence by this practice. At people whom he disliked
— there were not many such — he avoided
looking at all.

One day, shortly after that on which Hugh
Kenyon had paid his first visit to Longbourne,
Mr. Brune came in late for luncheon. This was
a most unusual event, for at Broom Leas punctuality
was a duty rigidly inculcated and practised,
and a number of small heads were turned
inquisitively towards the master of the house ashe
took his seat at the end of the long table.

I will give you all three shots apiece,' he
said, ' and bet you a big apple that you don't
guess where I have been this morning.'

^ Oh, seville,' murmured Mrs. Brune plaintively,
' do let the children eat their dinner.'

My dear, I feel sure that you need be under
no apprehension of their failing to do that. But
suspense is bad for digestion, I dare say. Will
you make a guess yourself ? '

I am not curious,' said Mrs. Brune languidly.


Still, you are susceptible of astonishment,
and I am confident that I shall astonish you
when I say that I have been at Longbourne.'

A slightly incredulous murmur ran round
the table, starting with Walter the eldest boy,

who was at home for the holidays, and ending
with Geoffrey, a young gentleman in his third
year, who cried ' Oh, oh ! ' from a precocious
tendency to shout with the majority. Mrs.
Brune straightened herself in her arm-chair, and
gathered her shawl about her with a quick, nervous
movement.

Has that woman gone away then ? ' she
asked.

^ On the contrary, that woman is making up
her mind to settle down at Longbourne, and it
was she who took me up to the house.'

Upon what pretence ? '

I ought not to have said that she took me.
I walked up with her of my own accord, and a
very pleasant walk it was. To avoid future
unpleasantness, Ellinor, I may as well confess
at once that I have fallen in love with that
woman.'

Mrs. Brune laughed a little, in a forced, perfunctory
way. She had a notion that her husband
often intended to be funny, and that,
though he failed to amuse her, it was her duty to
make some polite acknowledgment of his efforts.

I met her,' Mr. Brune went on, ^ at the
church door. I wanted to see Langley this
morning about some parish matters, and feeling-pretty
sure that he would be reading complies
or nones, or whatever it is '

I suppose you mean matins ? '

I suppose I do. Feeling sure that something
of the kind would be going on, I went
down to the church, and there, sure enough, I
heard his voice murmuring melodiously within.
So I sat in the porch till he came out in his
cassock and brett, accompanied by a tall lady
in widow's weeds, who had one of the most
interesting faces I have ever seen in my life. I
stated my business while she stood reading the
inscriptions on the tombstones, and then, as
Langley didn't introduce me, I made bold to
introduce myself.'

Really, neville ! ' cried Mrs. Brune in a
tone of great vexation, ' you are like nobody else
in the world. How extraordinary she must
have thought it of you ! '

Perhaps she did ; but, if so, she was well-bred
enough to disguise her feelings, and to
behave as though it gave her pleasure to meet
me. We walked away together quite amicably,
and were fast friends in less than ten minutes'.

But what induced you to go up to the house
with her ? '

The pleasure of talking to her, I suppose.
I daresay you would have been equally weak in
my place.'

I should certainly not have entered Long-bourne
as the o^uest of that woman. I shall

always feel that Lono;bourne no more belongs to
the Stanniforths than — than Lorraine does to the
Germans

You will be interested in hearing; that that
is precisely her own view of the case. She told
me so, blushing and looking as much ashamed
of herself as if she had picked my pocket.
Really, Elinor, she has strong claims of various
kinds upon your sympathy.'

Mrs. Brune shook her head decisively. ' I
could never feel sympathy with any one bearing
the name of Stanniforth,' she declared.

'Why not? Here is a woman who not only
attends matins and sends down a cartload of
flowers to decorate the altar, but confesses her
sins nth every appearance of sincere remorse.
Are we to be so inconsistent to all Christian
principles as to refuse her forgiveness? Her
sin, if you come to think of it, is not an unpardonable
one; it only consists in her being the
daughter-in-law of a man who once bought some
property of mine and paid me my own price for
it. Seriously, Ellinor, I want you to be kind to
this poor Mrs. Stanniforth. It made my heartache
to think of her living all alone in that great
barrack, and trying to put a good face upon it
too. It would be a real act of charity if you
would call upon her. And, in point of fact, I
have promised that you will do so.'

The silence that followed this announcement
was broken by a small childish voice, which
asked —

Papa, does Longbourne belong to Mrs.
Stanniforth ? '

To the best of my belief it does, Nellie.
Anyhow it will be her home for the rest of her
life, most likely.'

Then 1 won't go and see her,' declared the
young lady emphatically. And Walter, with
his mouth full of tart, growled out, ' Hear, hear,
Nellie!'

Upon my word ! ' exclaimed Mr. Brune,
you are a pretty set of young mutineers. I
have a great mind to order the whole tribe of
you up to I.ongbourne this very afternoon.
After this I suppose I must expect nothing less
than a flat refusal from your mother.'

Of course, Neville,' said Mrs. Brune, ' if you
tell me to leave cards I must obey you ; but I do
think it will look very odd. You never consider
what people will say.'

Not very much, I confess.'

'- 1 always thought,' Mrs. Brune continued,
that you did not wish me to visit strangers.
During all these years that the Bishop has been
at Crayminster we have never called upon Mrs.
Winnington, though everybody else in the
county has ; and to thrust ourselves upon their

daughter now — under the very peculiar circumstances
of the case too — does seem to me unnecessary,
to say the least of it. As to my being
kind to her, that is nonsense. She has plenty
of friends, and needs no kindness from me.
Probably she thinks she would do me a kindness
in receiving me.'

I assure you she is not a born idiot.'

1 don't see how you can possibly tell what
she may be. Besides I must say I should
hardly have expected that she would wish for
visitors yet, considering that her husband has
not been dead a year.'

My dear Ellinor, I am not asking you to
pay a formal visit, still less to leave cards at the
door. What I wanted you to do was to go in a
neighbourly way, and try to be of some comfort
to a fellow-creature, who perhaps has not so
many friends as you credit her with. However,
I have not the gift of persuasiveness, and I see
I had better leave you to Langley, who is coming
up to dinner, and who will probably use his
ghostly authority over you in the matter. Come
along, Miss Nell.'

And Mr. Brune rose and left the table,
Xellie, a sturdy little brown-haired maiden,
toddling after him with the important air which
beseemed her father's chosen companion and the
only girl out of a family of ten.

VOL. I. E

Mr. Brune had not erred in attributing to
Mr. Langley an influence more powerful than he
could hope to exercise. The rector of Long-bourne
was a gentleman who took himself very
seriously, and who, as a natural consequence,
was accepted at his own valuation by the majority
of his flock. The female portion of it, iu
particular, looked up to him with an unquestioning
faith and devotion which may have been
called forth in part by his pale, smooth-shaven
face, his stooping figure and his reputation for
asceticism, but which was doubtless also due to
the blameless integrity of his life, and to the
known fact that he spent three-fourths of his
income upon his church and upon the poor.
When he mentioned his new parishioner emphatically
as one whom it was a privilege to know,
Mrs. Brune capitulated without a protest, murmuring
that it would give her great pleasure to
make Mrs. Stanniforth's acquaintance. Accordingly
she walked over to Longbourne the
following day, accompanied by the recalcitrant
NelHe, and confessed on her return that she had
found her neighbour a very quiet and ladylike
person, ' A little cold and reserved in manner
perhaps, but that was far better than rushing
into the opposite extreme, as I was half afraid
from your description of her, Neville, that she
would do. If she had begun about the question

of her title to be where she is, I hardly know
how I could have answered her ; but 1 am glad
to say that she had the good taste not to refer to
the subject.'

It was in this somewhat unpromising fashion
that the foundation was laid of an intimacy between
the houses of Longbourne and Broom Leas
which lasted throughout the lives of their respective
occupants. Mrs. Brune did not, it is true,
at once accord her friendship to the new-comer :
she tolerated her ; and that, according to her
lights, was of itself no small concession. But of
the children Margaret made a prompt and facile
conquest. It was agreed among these young
people that the resentment which they were
bound to harbour against the whole Stanniforth
family should not be extended to this alien, who
was not by birth one of the proscribed race, and
whose personal amiability took forms difficult to
resist. They soon found out that they were
welcome in her house at all hours of the day,
and needed but little persuasion to convert her
gardens into a playground. She let them come
and go as they pleased, sometimes looking on at
their games, sometimes taking part in them, and
being always ready to act as arbitrator and
referee in those disputes Vv'hich sports of all kinds
are apt to engender, be the players young or old.
And then no one could tell fairy-tales with so

E 2

UBRARV

UNIVERSITY QF lUlNOlb

leisurely, serious, and convincing an air as she
did. One day Walter announced gravely that
he had discovered a simple solution of certain
family difficulties.

'When I am grown up,' he said, 'I shall
marry Mrs. Stanniforth ; and then we will all
live at Longbourne together.'

That is such an admirable plan,' Mr. Brune
remarked, ' that I cannot think how your mother
has failed to hit upon it before this. You have

L

obtained the lady's consent, I presume?'

Oh, that'll be all right,' Walter replied confidently.
'I told her about it, and she said she
would have to take a little time to consider of it.
She'll have a good ten years, you see, to think it
over in ; — or, perhaps, we might make it eight
years. I don't want to marry before I leave
Oxford, though.'

Walter,' said Mrs. Brune, ' you ought not to
talk nonsense upon such a subject as that to Mrs.
Stanniforth ; it is very thoughtless of you. I
don't know where you children get your want of
consideration for the feelings of others from. I
am sure you do not inherit it from me.'

The inference,' remarked Mr. Brune, ' is
unavoidable. Still, a capacity for better things
will crop up occasionally even in the worst of us;
and to prove it, I mean to go up to Longbourne
this afternoon and meet Mrs. Win ni no ton at five

o'clock tea ; and I shall make an excuse for yoo,
Ellinor. I need not point out to you what that
implies ; for you know how I love live o'clock tea
not to speak of Mrs. Winnington.'

The truth is that Mrs. Bennington had not
contrived, and probably had not endeavoured, to
make herself beloved by the Brunes. She waR
a person of the fine-lady type, common enough
twenty years or so ago, but now rapidly becoming
extinct. Of a commanding presence, and
with the remains of considerable beauty, she was
always dressed handsomely and in bright, decided
colours : she carried a <j:old- mounted double eve-glass,
through which she was accustomed to
survey inferior mortals with amusing impertinence
; while, in speaking to them, her voice
assumed a drawl so exaggerated as to render her
valuable remarks almost unintelligible at times.
These little graces of manner had doubtless
come to her from a study of the best models, for
she went a 2:ood deal into the fashionable world
at that time ; but, in addition to these, she
possessed a complacent density and an unfeigned
self-confidence which were all her own, and which
would probably have sufficed at any epoch, and
under any circumstances, to render her at once
as disagreeable and as contented a woman as
-could have been found under the sun.

Whether because she resented the slight put

upon her by the Brunes in that they had never
seen fit to call at the Palace, or because she had an
inkling that their pride surpassed her own vainglory,
she made up her mind to snub them ; and
when Mrs. Winnington made up her mind to any
course of action, it was usually carried through
with a will. The plainness with which these
worthy folks were given to understand that, in
her opinion, they were no better than country
bumpkins, and the mixture of patronage and
insolence with which she bore herself towards
them, were in their way inimitable. There are
some people magnanimous enough, or indifferent
enough, to smile at such small discourtesies ; and
probably the former owner of Longbourne was
more amused than angry when he was informed
that the house had been a positive pig-stye before
it had been put in order, and that Mrs. Winnington
really could not imagine how any one had found
it possible to live in such a place. But Mrs.
Brune, who was more irritable, trembled with
suppressed wrath at the contemptuous allusions
which were frequently made in her presence to
bankers, and brewers, and people of that class;*
and, indeed, it is not likely that friendly relations
could long have been maintained between Broom
Leas and Longbourne if Mrs. Winnington had
not, fortunately, been due in Scotland early in
September.

What Mrs. Stanniforth tlioiight of the cavalier
manner in which her new friends had been treated
it was not easy to say. She never attempted to
check or soften down her mother's rude speeches;
for she had not that exasperating quality which
is known as tact, and she was probably aware
that by no amount of stirring can oil and vinegar
be made to mix. Also she loved her mother —
(' The Lord knows why! ' said Mr. Brune, who
had observed this phenomenon); and it may
have been that she was a little blind to the
defects of that unamiable lady. However, Mrs.
Winnington departed for Scotland to pay a round
of visits to various aristocratic friends ; and then
all went smoothly again.

Mr. Langley was much pleased by the
amicable spirit in which the new lady of the
manor had been received by her nearest neighbours.
He had been interested in Margaret as a
doctor is interested in a difficult case ; he had
perceived that company and occupation were the
medicines of which she stood chiefly in need, and
he had at first hardly seen how or whence these
two alterative were to be obtained. But the
companionship of the Brune children had seemed
in a great measure to supply the first want, and
he had himself been able to satisfy the second by
an ample provision of parish work, so soon as he
had found that the patient had aptitudes that

way. He tbonoht she was doing very nicely
now, and would soon be convalescent.

In truth, however, she was not doing so well,
either in mind or in body, as Mr. Langley and
others supposed. When she was alone — and she
was a great deal alone — she was listless and
miserable ; she slept badly and had little appetite ;
and no sooner had the autumn set in with chilly
winds and rain than she caught a cold, which
settled on her chest and kept her in bed for a
week.

It was at this juncture that Hugh Kenyon,
who, throughout the summer, had been inventing
one excuse after another to defer his second
visit to Longbourne, reappeared upon the scene,
and was frightened out of his wits by the change
in Margaret's aspect. He found her lying upon
the sofa, looking flushed and feverish, and coughing
at every other word, and was horrified to
hear that she had not yet thought it necessary to
call in a doctor. Shortly afterwards it was
known in Crayminster and the vicinity that Mrs:
Stanniforth had been ordered to the Elvira for
the winter, and would start immediately. Hugh
had remembered that the Winningtons were a
consumptive family, and had been seized with a
panic which had found relief in prompt action.
By mere force of will, and in spite of Margaret's
protestations, he carried her off to London, and

took her to see an eminent specialist, by whom
his fears were to some extent confirmed. Then
he wrote to Mrs. Bennington to come back from
Scotland instantly ; and, without waiting for an
answer, telegraphed to Nice to secure suitable
rooms. Mrs. Winnington arrived from the Highlands
in no very good humour, and informed
Hugh in so many words that there was such a
thing as over-officious friendship ; but when she
heard the doctor's report, she said no more, but
packed up her trunks, and prepared to accompany
her daughter once more to the continent.
Hugh took first leave, and travelled with the
ladies to their destination.

'After all,' said Mrs. Brune, with unwonted
charity, ' there must be some good in that horrid
vulvar woman. I should have imagined her
utterly heartless and devoid of all maternal
affection ; but I suppose I must have judged
her too harshly.'

We are all of us too prone to judge our
neighbours harshly,' her husband remarked ;
'but I don't think that, in my moments of
bitterest injustice towards ^Trs. Winnington, I
should ever have suspected her of being the sort
of old woman to kill the goose that lays the
golden eggs.'

I don't know what you mean, Neville,' said
Mrs. Brune. ' Mrs. Winnington is not an old
woman, and '

And Mrs. Stanniforth is not a goose ? Well,
I don't know. If ever you find me deliberately
spending a winter in the south in such company
as she has chosen, I will give you leave to call
me a ofoose. at all events.'

CHAPTER III.

DISTRUST.

Once upon a time there dwelt in the East a
king so mighty and wealthy that he was the
envy of all mankind. He had armies and
palaces and treasure-houses, and shady gardens,
where fountains rose and fell all the day long,
and where neither roses nor bulls were
lacking ; not to mention sherbet, and jewels
innumerable, and a plurality of wives — in short,
all that the Oriental mind could find to desire.
And this made him sad ; for he was a thoughtful
monarch, and he soon found out that the fact
of having nothing left to wish for is not only insufficient
to render kings happy, but is apt to
have a precisely opposite effect upon them.
Therefore he summoned the wise men of his
kingdom, one by one, and demanded of each of
them privately how happiness might be gained.
And some said one thing, and some said another ;
but the inquirer could find no suggestion to
satisfy him till it came to the turn of a certain

dervish to be heard. ' Happiness, King,' said
this holy man, ' belongs not to our world ; but I
have With me a talisman which, if a man will
but consent to wear it next his skin for a twelvemonth,
will assuredly confer upon him as near
an approach thereto as is obtainable by mortals.*
And so, permission having been asked and given,
he proceeded to place this wondrous charm upon
his master's person. It consisted of a collar and
a waistband, loosely united by a strip of leather
so arranged as to follow the line of the wearer's
backbone, and to the middle of this strip was
affixed a good stout thorii; The thorn pierced
his Majesty's august skin, and he smiled graciously,
for he thought he had divined the
dervish's meaning. For a year he wore the
talisman ; and it caused him all the suffering and
inconvenience imaginable. He could not bow
without receiving a sharp stab Which almost
caused him to shriek aloud ; to lean back upon his
throne was out of the question ; when he walked,
the strip of leather swayed to and fro, leaving a
horizontal scratch for every step, and when he
rode, it flapped till his back was punctured like
a pincushion. But all this he bore manfully,
knowing that every hour brought him nearer to
the end, and looking forward to the time whiche
should taste the greatest of earthly joys,
which is relief from pain. Besides, it pleased

him to think how heroically he was supporting
a torment of which only one man in his dominions
suspected the existence. But, when the longed-for
day of deliverance came, lo and behold ! the
poor king was no better off than he had been at
starting. Repose indeed he had gained ; but
that he had had before ; and, on the other hand,
he had lost a hundred small daily solaces, of
which anticipation had not been the least. If
the dervish had not prudently made himself
scarce at the time, it is probable that he would
have had his head cut off for his pains.

The allegory has more than one moral; but
the most direct of them les upon the surface,
and there are few men or women who have not
had occasion, at one time or another of their
lives, to recognise its force. ' Ah ! heureux
temps quand fefais si malheureux I ^ — one hears
the cry every day in more or less articulate
accents, and there are certain poets whose whole
utterances amount to little else. Looking; back,
in after years, upon the few weeks which he had
spent at Nice under the same roof with Margaret
Stanniforth — upon their drives along the sunny
Cornice, upon their long talks on the balcony,
during warm southern evenings, after Mrs.
Bennington had gone out to the opera, or to a
party given by some English friend — upon
numberless incidents and speeches remembered

only by himself, Hugh Kenyon often sighed for
his lost thorn. It is doubtful whether he would
have consented to part with it even at the time,
although it galled him cruelly ; and in truth his
lot was not without compensations. Like the
Eastern potentate, he wanted what he was very
nearly sure that he could never obtain ; but, like
him, he perhaps got as near an approach to it as
was to be had. It was something to see Margaret
growing better in health with every day;
it was something to be always near her, and to
possess her entire confidence. If that confidence
usually showed itself after a fashion that made
him wince, he accepted the punishment as a just
and inevitable one, deriving such consolation ashe
could from conscious stoicism

Nice was full of English, as it always used to be
in the days when Cannes was as yet little frequented,
and San Nemo, Pegii, and other winter resorts
all but undiscovered ; and among these were, asa
matter of course, many of Mrs. Winnington's
numerous acquaintances. That lady was persuaded
to exhibit her mauve and purple gowns,
night after night, at various social gatherings,
apologising a little for going into the world so
soon after her daughter's loss ; and one, at least,
of her fellow-travellers was only too ready to
excuse her, and to keep Margaret company
through the lon^^ evenings.

The intercourse of these two people was of
that pleasant and easy kind which can only
subsist between old friends who have many
tastes and reminiscences in common, and it was
but occasionally that Margaret referred to the
subject which was always in her thoughts.
Hugh noticed with pleasure that she did not
shrink from receiving casual visitors, and was
able to talk cheerfully ; and what pleased him
still more was that her cough had almost left
her, and that the danger which he had dreaded
seemed to have passed away. He could not help
telling; her as much one evening;; and her rejoinder
disconcerted him a little.

Why do you say that ? ' she asked quietly.
'I never thought I was o;oino^ to die; but if I
had died, it would have been the best thing that
could have happened to me. You know I have
nothing to live for.'

^ You are too young to talk so; you will feel
differently some day, I hope,' said Hugh, rather
stupidly.

But she went on, without heeding his interruption
: ' If we could only know a little more !
If I could feel quite sure that we should all be
together again some day — you, and Jack, and I,
and all of us — just as we used to be, it would
be easy enough to live through the rest of my
time. Do you think it is at all possible that we

should meet like that, and talk over old days,
and ask one another heaps of questions, as we
should do if we had been separated for a time
here ? '

Hugh had not bestowed much reflection
upon this problem. He considered it now for a
brief space, pulling his moustache thoughtfully,
and then said, ' Well, I always think, you know,
that the less we bother ourselves about a future
state the better.'

At this Margaret had a little laugh, which
ended in a sigh. ' Sometimes I feel quite hopeless,'
she said ; ' and it seems to me that in reality
everybody else is hopeless too. When people
want to comfort me, they all say the same thing,
though of course not in the same words: " You
have no business to go on groaning over what
can't be helped. Nothing is known about the
next world ; and all that is certain is that you
have lost what you can never by any possibility
lind again here. The best thing that you can
do is to forget all about it, and make a fresh
start." '

This so very nearly expressed Captain
Kenyon's own view of the subject that he could
only remain silent.

After all,' Margaret resumed, ^ it is unreasonable,
I suppose, to expect comfort from
others. One must bear one's own burden, and

fio-ht one's own fio-ht as best one can. I don't
mean she added quickly, ' that it isn't the
greatest possible comfort to have a friend like
you; I am not so ungrateful as that. I often
think that life can never become quite unendurable
to me so long as I can talk to you or
write to you sometimes ; for 1 know I may tell
you all my troubles and perplexities and every
stupid notion that comes into my head. There
can't be many people in the world fortunate
enough to have such a friend.'

Speeches of this kind went far towards consoling
Hugh for many an hour of dejection.
There were moments when he almost felt as if
the friendship of which she spoke might be
sufficient to satisfy him ; but then again there
were others when he was perfectly sure that
friendship would not do at all, that it was
dangerous to linger upon these sunny shores,
and that prudence and duty alike pointed him
northwards. At the end of a month this conviction
forced itself upon him so strongly that
he struck while the iron was hot, and left for
England rather abruptly.

Before Christmas, Mrs. Winnington followed
his example. Her daughter, whose health no
longer gave cause for anxiety, had plenty of
friends in Nice to cheer her solitude ; and there
were other persons at home who had claims

VOL. I. F

upon Mrs. Winnington's care and supervision
The fact was that the Bishop, if left too long to
himself, was apt to get into scrapes, accepting
invitations which he ought not to have accepted,
allowing his children to make acquaintances
which they ouo^ht not to have made, and otherwise
usurping functions which he was ill
qualified to exercise.

Meanwhile the mistress of Longbourne was
greatly missed by those who dwelt around her
new home, and her movements were discussed
as such matters only are discussed in country
neighbourhoods. The winter passed away as
usual, with gales and rains 'and frosts ; and, as
usual, everybody said that there had not been
so hard a season for twenty years. Then, when
the customary easterly winds of spring had
blown themselves out, Mrs. Stanniforth returned
; and a welcome stimulus was afforded
to local conversation by the circumstance that
she did not return alone. It was Mr. Brune's
privilege to be the first to acquaint the parish
with this bit of intelligence. Trudging across
the fields, one sunshiny April morning, he encountered
Margaret, accompanied by Hugh
Kenyon and by a pale-faced little boy with
enormous dark brown eyes, whose hand she
held.

I have brought this little man home with

me,' said she. as soon as the usual o-reetmo's and
inquiries had been interchanged, ' to make an
Englishman cf him. Or rather, I have brought
him to have an English education ; for his
father was a countryman of ours, though he has
lived all his life with his mother in Italy.'

He looks as if he might have been left to
his mother a little longer with advantage,' Mr.
Brune remarked.

His mother is dead.' answered Margaret,
gently. ' You are my little hov now, aren't
you, Philip?'

A dissentient growl from Hugh Kenyon died
away unnoticed.

'" And what is your name, my lad ? ' asked
Mr. Brune.

Margaret answered for him, after a momentary
hesitation, ' His name is Filippo Marescalchi.
I am counting upon my friend Walter to take a
little care of him just at first, till he learns to
fio^ht his own battles.'

I can say on Walter's behalf that he will
be proud to obey any commands from Mrs.
Stauniforth; and, physically speaking, Walter
is all that a fond father could wish him to be.
You intend to send this young gentleman to
school, then? *

Yes ; at twelve years old it is time, is it
not? And he wants to go to school, and he

Y 2

isn't a bit afraid of English boys ; are you,
Philip ? '

The child shrank closer to the side of his
protectress with a movement which certainly
did not convey the idea of any great natural
intrepidity. He was frightened of the wiry
little man whose keen grey eyes had been fixed
upon him throughout this brief explanation,
and if he had been hi a position to follow the
bent of his own inclinations, he would probably
have turned and run back to the house as fast as
his legs could carry him. As he will play a
principal part in the course of the succeeding
narrative, and as the reader will be supposed to
be interested in the progress of his career, it
may be as well to state without further delay,
so much of his origin and past life as was
known to his present patroness.

During the winter which was just over he
had been frequently seen wandering all by himself
along the Promenade des Anglais at Nice ;
and Margaret, who loved all children, had soon
scraped acquaintance with this one. Through
him she had come to know his mother, a certain
Countess Marescalchi, who had come to the
Riviera in the last stages of consumption, who
had apparently neither kith nor kin to look
after her, and whose means were evidently of
the narrowest. The poor woman was inordinately

grateful for such kindnesses as Margaret
was able to show her, and, with the communicativeness
of her nation, had ere long put this
English Samaritan in possession of all the details
of a sufficiently sad history. She had, it
appeared, been married, some twelve or thirteen
years before, to a wealthy Englishman named
Brown, who had assumed the title of Count
Marescalchi on purchasing an estate in the
dominions of King Bomba, which, as a matter
of course, carried nobility with it. She had
lived happily with him, she said, during the
first year of their married life, more or less
unhappily during the second, and before the
third was at an end he had departed for his
native land, and had never returned. She had
received from his lawyers the title-deeds of the
Italian estate, together with an intimation that
she might now regard the same as her own, and
that Mr. Brown did not desire to hold any
further direct intercourse with her. After that
she had had remittances at irregular intervals ;
but these had soon ceased, and it was her belief
that her husband was dead. By her own family
she had not been treated over well. She had
two brothers living ; but they had absolutely
declined to do anything for her when her funds
had begun to run low, alleging that the sale of
her property should produce a sufficient income

for her to live upon, and declaring that, in any
case, it was not their business to support one
who had managed her affairs so badly. ' What
would you have ? ' she said, with a shrug of her
shoulders. ' They were terribly disappointed at
the disappearance of my husband, whom they
had counted upon to make them rich ; and indeed
I think it was as much they as I who drove
him out of the country, poor man ! '

For her own part, she confessed that she had
never had any wish to become reconciled with
Mr. Brown, whose temper had been of a most
trying kind. All the love that was in her had
been lavished upon her bambino ; and when she
thought that she must soon leave him utterly
alone in the world, or at best under the care of
two uncles from whom he could expect nothing
but harsh treatment, she was tempted to take
him down to the harbour some night, and let the
sea put an end to the troubles of both of them at
once.

What could I say to the poor creature ? '
Margaret asked, relating all this to Hugh kenyon.
' Of course I told her to set her mind at
rest, and that her boy should never want, and
that I would do my best to take his mother's
place as long as I lived.'

I don't see any of course about it,' returned
Hugh, who was by no means pleased

with Margaret's impulsive behaviour in this
matter.

Well, at all events, I did tell her so ; and
I am glad to think that she died more peacefully
for knowing that the poor bambino would not be
un cared for after she was gone. To me he will
be the greatest possible blessing ; he has given
me the very thing I needed — an object to live
for. And he is a pretty child, isn't he ? '

Oh, I don't know ; a little white thing, all
eyes. Yes ; I dare say he's pretty enough, if
that's any advantage. The question is whether
you haven't saddled yourself with a burden which
nothing in the world compelled you to take upon
your shoulders. I suppose you never thought of
making any inquiries as to the truth of the
mother's story. The chances are, you know,
that she was never really married to the individual
calling himself Brown — supposing that there ever
was such a person.'

I am not so imprudent as you would make
me out. I wrote to the uncles ; and the elder of
these Signori Cavestri came from Florence and
saw me. He confirmed all that I had heard from
his sister, and was quite willing that I should
adopt the boy.'

Xo doubt he was.'

And we signed an agreement in the presence
of witnesses ; so you see everything was

quite business-like. My only fear is that Mr.
Brown may turn up, some day, and claim his
son.'

That, I should think, is in the last degree
improbable. By-the-by, what is the young gentleman
to be called ? '

I hesitated a little about that at first ; but
I came to the conclusion that it would be really
too bad to call him Brown when he has a very
fair right to the name of Marescalchi. I don't
think we need say anything about the Count.
Fortunately, he talks English as well as I do ;
and he is a friendly little fellow. I do hope he
will be happy at school.'

I hope he will, I'm sure ; but I hope still
more that he won't make you unhappy at
home — which seems to be quite on the cards.
Why did you never consult me about all
this ?'

Because, my dear Hugh, I knew you would
make all sorts of objections, and, as I was determined
to have my own way, it was better to take
it, without preliminary fuss. Isn't that a sufficient
reason ? '

In truth Hugh Kenyon was not alone in
raising objections to the adoration of this little
waif and stray. Mrs. Stanniforth's relations,
one and all, declared themselves against her in
the matter. Old Mr. Stanniforth wrote from

Manchester to say that charity was all very well,
but that it was pushing charity beyond its legitimate
limits to pick up small Italian boys from
the gutter and seat them in your drawing-room.
In his opinion, a barrel-organ and a couple of
white mice would have met all the requirements
of the present case. As for the Bishop, he
almost shed tears over it ; while Mrs. Winning-ton
was so angry that she reverted to a freedom
of language with which her daughters had been
familiar in their schoolroom days, and roundly
told Margaret that she was a fool. What was to
be the future of this imp? she reasonably inquired.
Who was to support him, in case anything
should happen to his present protectress ?
Did Margaret remember that it would not be. in
her power to make any permanent provision either
for him or for any other chance object of benevolence
? And the good lady's wrath was by no
means appeased when her daughter answered
quietly that she hoped to be able to lay by several
thousands a year, and that, for the rest, she proposed
to insure her life in Philip's favour. If
one came to talk of insuring; lives, Mrs. Winnings
thought, it should be the wants of one's own
relations that one ought first to consider. She
was, however, a woman of some practical good
sense, and after her first natural outbreak of indignation,
she wisely resolved not to quarrel with

accomplished facts and to make the best of a
vexatious business.

Nor was Margaret unreasonable. Having;
carried her point in the main matter of providing
herself with an adopted son, she was quite
willing to listen to counsel as regarded his education
and prospects, and even to follow it, when
it coincided with her own views. And harmony
was in no small degree promoted by the unanimity
with which her advisers decided upon
what was the first thing to be done. ' Send him
to school,' cried each and all of them, without a
moment's hesitation ; and to little Philip, listening
eagerly to the discussion, this sentence seemed
to be delivered with a certain triumphant ring
which was far from being reassuring. Many
people imagine, or behave as if they imagined,
that children are conveniently deaf, except when
spoken to, and that of conversation held in their
presence they understand only so much as it is
desirable that they should understand. Philip
Marescalchi heard and understood very well.
He understood, for one thing, that all these
strange ladies and gentlemen were inclined to
be against him ; and, as he had never done any
of them an injury, this struck him as an unjust
predisposition, and one that reflected little credit
upon the English as a nation. Mrs. Stanniforth
he loved with all the demonstrative passion of a

southern nature ; hut by the time that he met
mr. Brune iu the manner already described, he
had learnt to look upon each fresh face with suspicion,
as upon that of a probable enemy ; and,
as we have seen, Mr. Brune's greeting had failed
to inspire him with any confidence.

Nevertheless, he felt a strong interest in
this alarming personage ; for he had found out
who Walter was, and that his own destiny was
to be sent to Water's school after Easter ; and
when it transpired that Mr. Brune was to dine
at Longbourne that night, Philip guessed at
once why the invitation had been given. He
would orladlv, if he had dared, have concealed
himself behind the window curtains during
dinner-time, and heard a few particulars as to
the mysterious place of discipline whither he
was to be despatched ; but this was for various
reasons out of the question, and he was fain to
console himself with the hope of gleaning some
information at dessert.

When the expected guest arrived, Master
Philip was lurking on the top landing of the
staircase, and, peering beneath the bannisters,
saw the butler help him off with his coat, after
which he was shown into the library. Then
the servants went away ; and Philip, stealing
down the broad, shallow stairs on tip-toe, approached
Mr. Brune's Inverness cape, and

began touching it and lifting up the corners of
it with a half-frightened curiosity, much as you
may see a little dog timidly poking his nose
into the empty kennel of a big one. Growing
bolder after a time, he proceeded to examine
this garment (an altogether novel one to him)
more closely, wondering at its weight and thickness,
and at the multiplicity of its pockets.
Presently it became almost a necessity to discover
whether these pockets contained anything,
and, if so, what; and just as he had made up
his mind to set these questions at rest, and was
fully committed to an investigation, the library
door was suddenly flung open, and Mr. Brune
himself suddenly strode out into the hall.

Hullo, youngster ! ' cried he, ' are you
looking for oranges ? You won't find any in
the pockets of my cat, I'm afraid ; but if you'll
come up and see me at Broom Leas, you shall
have as many as you can eat ; though we don't
pick them off the trees in our country. All I
have got here is a letter from your future schoolmaster,
which I forgot to take in with me ; and
you will soon see as much of his handwriting as
you will care about, I daresay.'

Mr. Brune did not appear to be angry at
the liberty which had been taken with his
property ; but the culprit was none the less
terrified. He drew back, stammering out : —

^ I was not touching your coat, sir. I — I
thought I had left my ball here.'

Oh, indeed ! ' said Mr. Brune, curtly ; and,
having found his letter, he returned to the
library without another word.

This unlucky encounter robbed Philip of
any desire to face the company at dessert ; butin
due time he was sent for as usual, and led
into the dining-room, where he stationed himself
beside Margaret's chair — a picturesque
little figure in his black velvet costume.

There was nothing that should have excited
apprehension in the aspect of the five guests
who were seated round that well lighted and
prettily decorated table. They were in good
humour, as most people are after an excellent
dinner, and when the Bishop called out, * Hey !
not in bed yet ? ' he meant to express nothing
more than playful amiability. But Philip
snuggled under Margaret's wing, and made no
reply. To him these good folks were all
enemies, and he answered their questions in
monosyllables and with downcast eyes ; so that
they all thought him shy (which he was not),
and some of them set him down as sulky into
the bargain. As soon as he had disposed of his
grapes and biscuits he threw his arms round
Margaret's neck, and kissed her on both cheeks ;
after which, with a funny little old-fashioned

bow to the rest of the company, lie made this
escape. As he was in the act of shutting the
door behind him, he heard Mr. Brune say, ' He
is a pretty little fellow. Don't get too fond of
him.' But Mrs. Stanniforth's answer, if she
made any, was inaudible ; and the bo' went
away, wondering what Mr. Brune could have
meant by that rather unkind piece of advice.

Later iu the evening this enigma was explained
to him after a fashion confirmatory of
the old adage that listeners hear no good of
themselves. Being wide awake, and hearing a
carriage drive up to the door and the sound of
voices in the hall, he slipped out of bed and
crept to his old post of observation at the top
of the staircase, whence he could see the Bishop
and Mrs. Winnington enveloping themselves in
wraps, and could hear them remarking upon the
loveliness of the evening to the others, who had
come out to bid them good-night. Presently
they took their departure, and were soon followed
by Mr. Langley, who had got the good-natured
Hugh by the button-hole, and was
haranguing him upon the undue facilities
afforded to the British private soldier for
changing his religion, whenever it might suit
the convenience of that ignorant and erratic
creature to do so.

It is a grave scandal,' Philip heard him

saying, ' and one to which the authorities do
not seem to be properly alive. Good-night,
Mrs. Stanniforth, good-night — most delightful
evening — thank you so very much. Such a
state of things is a disgrace to the country,
Captain Kenyon. I understand that it is an
absolute fact that these men will shift about
from one denomination to another — Anglicans
to-day, Romanists tomorrow. Dissenters next
day — simply with a view to attending the place
of worship in which they are likely to be detained
for the shortest time. Xow, so long as
the army chaplains are not backed up '

I think 111 just light a cigar and walk down
as far as the gate with you,' Hugh said, resignedly.
And so Mr. Brune and his hostess were
left alone in the hall, and the proceedings took
a turn more interesting to the small watcher
overhead.

What made you tell me not to get too fond
of the boy ? ' Margaret asked, rather abruptly.

It is a mistake to get too fond of anybody
or anything in a world of change,' answered Mr.
Brune, sententiously.

'Yes ; but that was not what you meant.
I wish you would tell me what you did mean.'

My dear Mrs. Stanniforth, if I were to
answer your question honestly, you would only
be angry with me, and I should not convince

you that I lead any good reason for my
warning

Having said that much, yoa must be perfectly
aware that I shall not let you go until you
have explained yourself.'

This is what one gets by allowing one's
tongue too much freedom. Well, then, I recommended
you not to grow too fond of him because
I suspect that he is not likely to prove worth it.
There ! '

I did not know it was so easy to foresee
what a child of twelve years old was likely to
prove worth.'

It is less difficult than people are willing to
allow. Anyone who has had as much to do
with the breaking-in of young animals as I have
will tell you that they all possess hereditary
vices and defects, or the reverse ; and, humiliating
and puzzling as the fact may be, I fear that
we mortals are subject to the same laws. Of
course, if you or I were creating a world, we
should give everybody a fair start, and little
boys and girls would be little lumps of clay, to
be moulded by the care and wisdom of their
parents or guardians ; but even that system
might be found open to objections, and it is
pretty clear that that is not the system which
actually prevails. Therefore, I say that there

will always be specimens of the race for whom
it is advisable not to care overmuch.'

What defects and vices have you discovered
in my poor little Philip ? '

I have discovered that he is a liar, and I am
half afraid that he is a coward too ; but I won't
insist upon the latter point. I told you I should
make you angry. Come, it is only a question of
words, after all. Let us say that he has a highly-strung
nervous temperament, and that his intelligence
is precocious. Plow much nicer that
sounds ! And it means very nearly the same
thing.'

I don't think it means the same thing at all ;
and I can't understand your being unjust and
cruel enough to speak so of a child whom you
have only seen for a fcAv minutes. You were
certainly right in saying that your prejudice
would not convince me. And even if he were
what you pretend, I should not be the less fond
of him, especially as, by your own showing, he
would not be to blame for his faults.'

But I didn't blame him, if you remember.
Well, well ; don't say I never warned you. that's
all.'

Mr. Brune had struggled into his Inverness
cape by this time, and had got as far as the
doorstep, whither he was followed by Margaret.

I daresay I am unjust,' he said; 'that is

VOL. I. G

likely enough, goodness knows ! — though I
won't admit that I am cruel. It was only a
little fib that he told me, Mrs. Stanniforth. I
caught him with his arm thrust up to the elbow
in the pocket of my coat, and he assured me
that he had never touched my coat at all An
accomplished liar would hardly have said that,
would he ? So there's comfort for you. I suppose
we have most of us told lies in our time. I
am ready to confess that I have, and that if I
had no worse sins on my conscience than your
young rascal has been guilty of, I should be a
happier man than I am. Let us shake hands,
and acknowledge that we are all miserable sinners,
and say no more about it.'

But these last consolatory sentences did not
reach the ears of Philip, who stole back to his
room, got into bed again, and cried himself to
sleep.

CHAPTER IV.

THE RISING AND THE SETTING SUN.

Bad beginnings do not always make bad endings.
After the cold welcome which had greeted
Philip's entrance into the land of his adoption,
he was so fortunate as to earn speedily a general
good-will which — if he had rightly understood
the case — should have been especially gratifying
to him, seeing that it was evidently due to his
personal merits alone. As an institution Mrs.
Stanniforth's relations and advisers had felt bound
to object to him ; but as an individual they were
quite willing to let him have a fair trial; and
further acquaintance showed him to be an attractive
little individual enough. His manners,
when he got a chance of displaying them, were
acknowledged to be charming, albeit a trifle odd
and old-fashioned ; beg accustomed to shift for
himself, he had none of the tiresome habits of a
spoilt child, and required nobody to entertain
him ; he was quick at picking up the tone and
falling into the ways of those about him ; and a

select few were privileged to make the discovery
that he was an excellent mimic. The guffaws
that arose from the region of the servants' hall
when he took off Mr. Langley's hurried gait and
nasal intonation, caused the grooms in the stable-yard
to pause in their work and grin at one
another from the mere contagion of merriment ;
he had caught the good Bishop's trick of murmuring
' Oh, my dear friend, my dear friend ' so
perfectly that a listener with his eyes shut would
have been puzzled to distinguish the imitation
from the original ; and even Mrs. Prosser, the
sour-tempered housekeeper, condescended to
smile when he sailed across the room, holding
up invisible skirts with his left hand, peering
here and there through imaginary eye-glasses,
and ejaculating, ' My dearest Margaret, you
ought really to insist upon your servants' doing
their work properly ! ' For Mrs. Prosser did
not love her mistress's mother.

But these exhibitions were reserved for
those who appreciated them, and were never
indulged in in the presence of Mrs. Stanniforth ;
for, young as he was. Master Philip knew that
what is one man's meat is another man's poison,
and had learned the important lesson of how to
adapt his demeanour to his company. Mrs.
Brune, for instance, thought him a sweet, gentlemanlike
child, and wished, with a sigh, that

her own rou2:h little mob were more like him ;
while, if he had failed to ingratiate himself with
her husband, it was only because he had made
up his mind that any effort to do so would be
hopeless, and because (pardonably enough) he
entertained for that gentleman a deep-seated
aversion, not unmixed with dread. As for the
children at Broom Leas, they sat in judgment
upon him, for a day or two, after the pitiless and
uncompromising fashion of children, and finally
pronounced a verdict in his favour. Probably
they were influenced in no small degree by his
independence and his assumption of certain airs
of superiority to which his experience and
knowledge of the world entitled him; but, be
that as it may, their friendship, once accorded,
was given without reserve, and he was immediately
admitted into a freemasonry which no
parental orders or entreaties could have thrown
open to him. He, on his side, was greatly taken
with these new companions, and especially with
Nellie, to whom he made love so openly that
Mrs. Brune actually began to speculate upon
what might come to pass in ten or fifteen years'
time, and asked her husband privately whether
he supposed that Mrs. Stanniforth's protege had
anything substantial in the way of expectations.


Philip was strong across the fields from

Longbourne to Broom Leas, one morning, when
he was met by a broad-shouldered, fresh-coloured
boy of about his own age and about twice his
size, who left off whistling on catching sight of
the stranger, and presently called out : ' I say !
is your name Marescalchi ! '

Philip said, ' Yes.'

^ Oh, all right ! You're going to school
with me next half. I'm Brune — Walter, you
know : you've heard of me from the young
'uns ? '

Philip smiled amiably, said, ' I am glad to
see you,' and held out his hand, which the other
took, staring and laughing a little. Walter was
not accustomed to so much ceremony.

I say,' he began again after a pause. ' can
you play cricket ? '

Philip answered in the words of the gentleman
who was asked whether he could play the
flute, that he didn't know, never having tried.

Hum ! that's a pity. Football ? '

Philip had never even seen a football ; and
his questioner was visibly depressed by this
intelligence. It was evidently in no sanguine
spirit that he suggested ' Fives ? ' and a third
disclaimer appeared to grieve rather than surprise
him. ' Well,' he said, in a tone of gentle
remonstrance, ' you'll have to learn, you know.'
And then, ' You don't ride, I suppose.'

This time Philip was able to nod affirmatively.
' I have got a new pony,' he said.

Have you though ? ' cried the other, brightening.
' Where is he ? Up at the Longbourne
stables ? Come along, and let's have a look at
him.'

So Walter was taken to admire the purchase
which Hugh Kenyon had made, a short time
before, at Mrs. Stanniforth's desire; and after
that, the two boys visited the other stalls and
loose boxes together, and were very knowing
upon the subject of horseflesh, and in that
way made friends. Philip could stick to his
saddle as well as most boys of his age ; for his
mother had had him taught to ride, just as she
had been careful to provide him with an English
nurse, so long as that extravagance had been
possible to her. Xo one could tell what might
happen, she used to say to herself, when in a
hopeful mood, and there was no harm in being
prepared for all contingencies. In her heart
she had always cherished a notion that, one day
or another, Mr. Brown's relatives might claim
their kinsman, and bear him away to wealth and
honours in that far-off northern island which she
well knew that she herself would never see.
Her pains and forethought had their reward
now; though not under such circumstances as
she had anticipated.

^ I think he'll do,' Walter announced confidentially
to his father some days later. * I
should not wonder if he was to get just a little
bit kicked at first '

If you are quite sure that it will be only
just a little bit, AValter, I should be inclined to
doubt whether that would be an altogether
unmixed evil.'

Oh, there's no such thing as bullying nowadays,'
answered the boy, who was not himself
made of the stuff" which is easily bullied ;
he'll get on all right. The only danger is — •
he's awfully clever, you know — the danger is
that he may turn out a sap, and stick indoors
all day.'

I am convinced, my dear boy, that we may
rely upon you to do your utmost, both by precept
and example, to avert such a calamity.
Judging by the report which you were kind
enough to hand to me on your return, the disgrace
of being known as a '' sap " is one which
you are in no danger of incurring. Can you
conjugate vapid, for instance?'

'Yes,' answered Walter, 'I can; but I'd
rather not ; because '

Quite so. I respect your feelings, and have
no desire to stir up painful memories during the
holidays. But mind you, if this youngster is
promoted over your head, there shall be no Eton

for you. I can't afford to send more than one
of you to the old school ; and if you won't learn,
why Dick must take your place ; and I shall —
well, I think I shall ship you off to the colonies,
and make you work your passage out as cabin-boy.'


Walter grinned, knowing that there was no
likelihood of this threat being carried into effect,
though he considered it quite upon the cards
that the supposition which had given rise to it
might be fulfilled. For he had discovered, to
his astonishment, that little Marescalchi could
do Latin verses, not to speak of construing a
page of Virgil without the aid of a crib ; and he
had the best reasons for thinking modestly of
his own classical attainments.

Meanwhile, it was indispensable that this
benighted foreigner should gain some elementary
knowledge of how to hit and how to throw up a
ball, before being sent to school. Therefore
Walter, who was the most good-natured soul
alive, spent a large portion of his three weeks'
holidays in bowling loss to the stranger, while
Nellie long-stopped ; and at the end of the time
he was able to speak with qualified approbation
of his pupil's progress. The last day was a
trying one for Philip — and not for Philip alone
but it passed away without any unseemly
exhibition; and if there were tears in anybody's

eyes when the moment of parting came, they
were resolutely winked away.

^ Oh dear ! I almost wish he had been a girl,'
sighed Margaret, as she stood looking after the
carriage which was bearing away her adopted
child and his juvenile protector.

It would have been much better in all
respects if he had been,' agreed Mr. Brune ;
^ but, my dear Mrs. Stanniforth, why didn't you
think of that before ? Boys are a nuisance even
when they come into one's possession in the
ordinary course of nature ; but nothing compels
one to adopt other people's boys. Considering
the vast preponderance of the female over the
male population, it does seem odd that, when
you had made up your mind to relieve the
destitute, you should have fixed upon one of the
wrong sex.'

The destitute females did not happen to
come in my way, you see ; and Philip belongs
to me now as much as your boys belong to you.
I am sure I have no right to grumble. He has
been a godsend to me already, and I don't doubt
but that he will be the joy of my life and the
prop of my old age.'

Unless he comes to the gallows in the
meantime. Now, Mrs. Stanniforth, don't look
so reproachfully at me ; I did not really mean
that. Set it down to jealousy of your boy, who

is SO much better-looking and cleverer than
mine, you know. I foresee how you will crow
over me for the next three months, and I can't
help feeling sore in anticipation.'

It must be confessed that, if Margaret did
not actually crow over Mr. Brune, she was very
exultant when the first reports from Philip's
school reached her, and that she talked about
him and his triumphs a little too much for the
patience of her mother, who was at that time
spending a few days with her.

Now I do think there are very few boys of
twelve years old who could produce anything so
good as that,' she exclaimed, one morning,
throwing across the breakfast-table a letter
which, in truth, was not ill written and was
disfigured by no blots.

Mrs. Winnington picked it up, and surveyed
it through her glasses. ' My dearest Meg,' it
began.

Really,' cried Mrs. Winnington, laying
down the sheet, ' I am surprised at your
encouraging the boy to address you in that
disrespectful way. '* Meg," indeed ! Why, I
should never have allowed even your brothers
and sisters to make use of such a vulgar
nickname.'

'But 'mrs. Stanniforth " would be so
formal. He always used to call me Meg at

Nice, and I rather liked it. I don't think it
sounds disrespectfully

Oh, very well ! I suppose the young
gentleman will be addressing me as Sukey next,'
said Mrs. Winnington, whose christian name
was Susan. And then she raised her eye-glasses
again, and went on with the letter.

My dearest Meg, — This is a half-holiday, so
I am going to write to you as I promised. We
have two half holidays a week. I like it very
much, only I want to go to Eton at Christmas
when Walter goes. Please dear Meg let me go.
Walter says he is sure I should take middle
fourth, which is Upper School you know. I
play cricket every day. I never cry, and I say
my prayers as you told me. All the boys say
their prayers here because one of the masters
comes into the dormitory in the morning and
then we have to do it while he is there and then
we dress and then we go into school. We don't
get much butter with our bread at breakfast.
Walter says all the boys at Eton have rooms of
their own and buy what they like for breakfast.
I should always buy sossiges. I wish I was
there. But I am very happy here. Please
send me ten shillings as I have got no money
left. I must stop now for I have no more to say.
Give my love to Prosser and Wilson and James

and Thomas and all the animals and Mrs.
Winnington, and

Believe me

Ever your loving

Philip.'

'• There are a few mistakes in spelling
Margaret observed in an apologetic tone.

A few,' said Mrs. Winnington drily. ' It is a
comfort to think that Philip is not likely to fail
in life through any foolish feeling of delicacy as
to asking for what he wants. I suppose you
have already begun to make inquiries about a
house at Eton.'

Well, it would be a arrest things if he and

CO

Walter could go there together, would it not?
And you know, mother, it is one of your
maxuns that those who won't ask don't deserve
to receive.'

Mrs. Winnington, who had consistently acted
in accordance with this principle for many years,
did not find it convenient to make any direct
rejoinder, and merely remarked : ' Eton was
thought too expensive a school for your brothers:
but I dare say I had better not interfere. I
hope you will thank your young prodigy for his
polite mention of me when you write.'

Oh, yes; I will certainly,' replied Margaret,
quite seriously. And she despatched an answer

to Philip's letter that same afternoon, enclosing
the ten shillings, as requested, and promising
that if he continued to be good, and was careful
about the orthography of ' dormitory ' and other
recondite words, the propriety of sending him
to Eton in eight months' time should be considered.


The boy had not told the truth in asserting
that he was happy at school. But what boy
ever does tell the truth in such . matters ? He
was physically weak, nervous, and sensitive, and
he experienced the inevitable fate of those who
possess such organisations. This private school,
which was neither better nor worse than other
establishments of its kind, did him some good
and some harm. It taught him a respect for
discipline ; it gave him a rough notion of what
commonly passes for justice in this world ; and
it confirmed his previous impression that the
English, with a few bright exceptions, were a
thick-headed and hard-hearted race. Probably
he would not have pulled through as well as he
did had he not had a powerful friend in "Walter
Brune. "With the help of that good-natured
son of Anak, he just managed to hold his own
among his companions, and, although he did not
achieve popularity, he was not much tormented
after the first few weeks. To set against this
mediocre social success, he had the good word of

all his masters, and he returned to Longbourne
at Midsummer with a pile of prizes under his
arm and a highly eulogistic letter, addressed to
Mrs. Stanniforth, in the pocket of his jacket.

Perhaps, if Philip had known it, that first
day of his first holidays was the happiest of his
life. The joy of regained liberty; the joy of beings
by none but friendly faces ; and the
iov of once more embracing his beloved Meo —
the only person in the world in ^vhom he had
complete confidence : these would of themselves
have satisfied him. But when to such delights
was joined the supreme one of returning
them in the character of a conquering hero, the
measure of his contentment was filled up to
overflowing ; for it was a part of his nature to
adore applause. Margaret was not alone when
he arrived ; she had Captain Kenyon and two of
her young brothers, schoolboys like himself,
staying with her. But Hugh was so kind and
complimentary that his presence could hardly
be considered as a drawback; and the AYinnino
ton boys had the pleasant, soft manners of their
father's family, and did not look askance at
Philip, as at an intruder, after the fashion of
certain other people whom he had met at Long
bourne earlier in the year.

In the afternoon Walter came up ; and then
there were the stables to be visited, and various

plans for the employment of eight blissful weeks
to be concocted; after which came late dinner,
to which — the occasion being so auspicious a
one — the juveniles sat down with their elders.
But what pleased Philip more than all this,
more even than the news that his hopes were
to be fulfilled, and that he was to go to Eton
after Christmas, was the footing upon which he
felt himself to stand with regard to those about
him. He was no longer the little Italian waif,
picked up nobody knew whence, and eyed from
every quarter with curiosity and suspicion ; he
was a recognised member of the family, and one
who was acknowledged to have brought credit
upon it in the shape of those gilded volumes
which were lying in a conspicuous place upon
the drawing-room table.

Thus it was, in all respects, a day to be
marked with a white stone ; but, somehow or
other, Margaret's spirits did not seem to be as
high as they ought to have been under the circumstances
; and Philip, who was an observant
little person, was not slow to detect this deficiency.
He noticed also that Captain Kenyon
was not himself. That ordinarily quiet and
taciturn gentleman was so talkative and so
laboriously jovial that a far less shrewd listener
than Master Marescalchi must have suspected
that something; was amiss. Takins: one thins:

with another, and remarking that no direct
interchange of words took place between the
head and the foot of the table, our young friend
came to the conclusion that Captain Kenyon had
been misbehaving himself in some way, and
that Margaret was displeased with him ; and
this impression was confirmed by what took
place subsequently in the drawing-room. Hugh
began talking about Eton, and, mentioning as a
curious circumstance that he himself had never
seen the place, added that he would now have a
pretext for running down there occasionally.

Have you ever seen Oxford P ' asked Margaret,
looking up for an instant from her embroidery.

Well, no ; oddly enough, I never have.
Why do you ask ? '

Only because your pretext will most likely
have moved there before you come back.'

Oh, I hope it will not be so bad as that,'
answered Hugh, laughing in an uncomfortable,
nervous sort of way.

I thought,' said Mrs. Stanniforth, risings
and gathering up her skeins and scissors
and needles, 'that you told me you would not
be in England again for another eve or six years
at least.'

And with that she walked to the other end
of the room, and engaged one of her youno-
brothers in a game of backgammon, disregard-vol.

I. H

ino* Hugh's confused murmurs about getting
leave, he hoped, and distance being nothing in
these days, and more to the like effect. Whereupon
the latter thrust his hands into his pockets,
stretched his long legs out before him, and
became lost in frowning meditation.

It was Margaret's custom to peep into
Philip's room, before retiring to rest, for a last
look at her boy, who was generally sound asleep
at the hour of these visits. Upon this occasion,
however, she found him sitting up in bed, and
eager for conversation ; and one of the first
things he asked was —

Meg, is Captain Kenyon going away ? '

Margaret said yes ; Captain Kenyon was
going to India very soon.

What for ? ' PhiUp inquired.

He is sent there, my dear. Soldiers are
sent to India sometimes.'

Is India a long way off? '

Yes ; a long way. I dare say you won't
see Captain Kenyon again until you are almost
a man. Aren't you sorry? '

Philip did not feel that the prospect was one
which affected him very greatly; but he expressed
a proper amount of civil regret, and
then went on with his inquiries.

Why are soldiers sent to India, Meg? Fora
punishment ? '

^ Oh dear, no ! many of them don't thmk it a
punishment at all. There are tigers to be shot
in India, and pigs to be stuck, and other excitements
which are not to be had in this country.
Of course those who go leave their friends behind
them, which some might consider a drawback.'


And are they obliged to go ? '

Well, I believe they can generally arrange
to remain at home if they wish it.'

Captain Kenyon doesn't wish it, then? '

I suppose not. But we must not talk anymore
now ; it is high time for you to lie down
and go to sleep.'

So Margaret went away, leaving Philip still
a victim to baffled curiosity. He perceived that
Captain Kenyon' s departure was arousing no
small amount of resentment ; but he did not
clearly understand why that officer should not
go and kill tigers, or be killed by them, if the
current of his ambition set that way. If it had
been a question of the Bishop's or of Mrs. Winnington's
incurring such perils, that would of
course have been another thing ; but what, after
all, was Captain Kenyon to Margaret? Only a
friend — and not a very interesting friend either,
in his (the speculator's) opinion. It will be
seen that Philip was not too young to be
jealous.

NO NEW THING.

Poor Hugh was innocent enough of any desire
to quit his native shores, and not all the
tigers in Bengal would have tempted him away,
had he felt at liberty to consult his own inclinations
; but there were more considerations
than one which weighed with him when his battery,
somewhat unexpectedly, received orders to
hold itself in readiness to proceed on foreign
service. In the first place, he was a poor man,
and could not well have afforded the expense of
an exchange ; secondly, he had a mother and
sisters whom he had accustomed to look for occasional
remittances from him, and to whose
comforts the double pay of the Indian establishment
might be expected to minister considerably
; thirdly — and this, it must be confessed,
was what he thought of most — he had convinced
himself that it would be better for him to
dwell no longer than was necessary in the same
quarter of the globe as Margaret.

The first two of these reasons were such as,
in an ordinary man, might have been held to be
sufficient, not to say creditable ; but those who
choose habitually to study the convenience of
others rather than their own must be prepared
to pay the penalty which such an imprudent
rule of conduct entails. Hugh, having cheerfully
served his fellow-creatures all his life long,
had ceased, in the eyes of most of them, to be a

free agent ; and Margaret, for one, though she
was not unreasonable enough to desire that he
should sacrifice his career in order that she
might have an adviser and confidant always at
her elbow, yet thought that friendship demanded
of him some expression of regret and some explanation
of the causes that were leading him to
abandon her at a time when she stood so much
in need of support. When, therefore, he announced
in a brisk, ofi"-hand manner that he
was about to sail for India, and might be absent
for a matter of half-a-dozen years or so, she felt
that she had every right to be hurt and offended ;
and so it was that she treated the delinquent
with marked coldness, and made the sarcastic
allusions above-mentioned to tigers and pigs.

The next morning, Philip espied Hugh
smoking his pipe pensively on the lawn before
breakfast, and attacked him point-blank with —

Capta Kenyon, why are yon going to
India?'

Why am I going, my boy ? ' echoed Hugh,
looking down at the inquisitive little face which
was turned up to his. ' Well, I am going because
it comes in the way of my duty to go, if
you understand what that means.'

But Meg said you could stay at home if
you liked.'

'Did she say that?' exclaimed Hugh, in an

altered voice ; and for a moment Philip experienced
the uncomfortable sensation of one
who has trodden upon a sleeping lion's tail.
But it presently appeared that Captain Kenyon
was not going to be angry.

Ah,' said he, ' ladies won't understand that
a man can't always do as he likes. Don't you
let them put an}^ notion of that kind into your
head, my young friend, or you'll come to grief
one of these fine days. One of the first lessons
that men and boss have to learn is that they will
very seldom be able to do as they like, and the
next, that they may as well grin and bear it.'

Hugh, however, was not allowed to beg the
question in that way.

But you can do as you like about going to
India,' persisted his cross-examiner. ' Meg said
so.'

Perhaps neither you nor Margaret know
much about that,' answered Hugh, good-humouredly.
'At all events, I am not going
to be bulged by any of you ; and you'll see me
back sooner than you want me, I have no doubt.
That's enough said about me. What you have
to do is to grow into a big boy as soon as you
can, and try to be some comfort to — to — to —
the person to whom you owe pretty well everything.
You have made a good start ; keep it
up. And mind you, it isn't enough to get

prizes, and be at the top of your class, and all
that. Not that study isn't a fine thing in its
way ; still, it's not all that's wanted. You are
sent to school, I take it, not only to learn Latin
and Greek and a smattering of mathematics,
but to learn to be a gentleman and a good fellow.
At Eton you will fall in with companions
of all ranks and fortunes, just as you will in the
world later on, and the chances are that you
will have as much pocket-money as any of
them ; but don't let that make you forget that
you will have to earn your own bread some day.
Never pretend that you are anything but what
you really are ; never shirk either your work or
your play ; and never say a word behind a fellow's
back that you wouldn't dare say to his
face. That isn't an impossible system to follow
; though it's a hard one, I grant you. You
stick to it, and you'll have your reward in due
time.'

• In this strain Hugh went on, expounding
his simple theory of ethics between the whiffs
of his pipe, and the boy listened to him with
about as much attention as boys usually vouchsafe
to the wisdom of their elders. The speaker's
words gained something in impressiveness, it is
true, when it transpired that this was a valedictory
address, and that Captain Kenyon proposed
to leave for Aldershot within a few hours. He

would not actually sail for some time to come ;
but the little leave that he could hope to obtain
after this must, he explained, be spent with his
own family, and it was unlikely that he would
be able to visit Longbourne again. ' So you
see,' he concluded, ' this will be my last opportunity
of lecturing all you good folks and telling
you your duty ; and I am making the most of

it;

But, although Hugh could be fluent enough
in the presence of this small member of the
household, he became a changed man under the
eye of its mistress, and his eloquence entirely
deserted him when the time came for him to
hold his farewell interview with her. They sat
facing, but not looking at one another, in the
library, she stitching at her embroidery, and he
pulling his moustache and studying the pattern
of the carpet ; and, like the sentimental couple
in the ballad,

They spoke of common things,
But the tears were in their eyes.

At length Huo^h could stand this absurd
constraint no longer, and broke out with — ' I
hope you don't think I am going to India for my
own amusement. The boy said something to me
just now which — he told me you had said I need
not go unless I liked.'

I fancied,' said Margaret, ^ that exchanges

were not difficult to obtain. But I don't know
why you should not wish to go.'

Ah, that is not like you ! that is not quite
honestly said. You must know that it can be
no pleasure to me to leave — all that I shall
have to leave, and that I should not go, unless
1 had a good reason for doing so. 1 have a
good reason — several good reasons.'

He broke off, and looked at her half apprehensively.
He was undecided whether to hope
that she would understand him or to hope that
she would not. But she looked up with a pleasant
smile, and an evident unconsciousness of any
deeper meaning than his words seemed to imply.

Dear old Hugh,' she said, ' I know you
have reasons, and I suppose I can guess what
some of them are. I ought to know, if anyone
does, that your own pleasure is about the last
thing that you ever think of ; and I beg your
pardon for having been so disagreeable to you.
But I confess that the way you spoke yesterday
made me unhappy, and vexed me. I thought
you seemed glad to go.'

No,' said Hugh, in a low voice ; ' I was not
glad.'

Of course you were not ; and even if you
had been, one has not so many friends in the
world that one can afford to quarrel with the
best of them.'

Quarrel ! ' cried Hugh aghast. ' My dear
Margaret! '

Well, I won't say anything about quarrels;
it takes two to make one, doesn't it? But I
dare say you don't know what a loss you will be
to me. It seems as if 1 must lose everyone I
cared for.'

Hugh was perfectly well aware that if she
had cared for him in the way that he wished her
to do she would never have said that. ' You
won't lose me, if I can help it,' he answered,
cheerily; 'and you have the boy, remember.
He will very soon take my place — and more
than my place, I'm afraid. His sun is rising,
and mine is setting ; and that is quite as it
should be. Only don't let him put me
altogether out of your memory.'

From which it may be inferred that, if Philip
was inclined to be jealous of Captain Kenyon,
his sentiments were not far from being returned.

'I don't know why you should say that,'
cried Margaret, with some warmth. * Is one
only to care for one person in the world? You
are not the less my friend because I have
found a son in Philip. If Jack were alive, you
don't think, do you, that I should care less to
see you and hear from you ? '

Yes, I do,' answered Hugh. ' Why, it stands
to reason that you would.'

Then you don't know the meaning of
friendship, that's all.'

'Don't I?' said Hugh, meekly. And then
she begged his pardon again, and they both
laughed, and Margaret cried a little; and before
much more could be said, the butler came in to
announce that the dog-cart was at the door.
One of them was not sorry to have his adieux
cut short. He promised to write often ; and
they shook hands, saying that they would certainly
meet again soon.

So they two parted; and did not meet again
for many a long day.

CHAPTER Y.

THE YOUNG GENERATION.

Ten years make up a very respectable slice to
take out of any man's life. Ten years advance
the restless world so far in its eternal task of
waste and renewal, bring such a vast accumulation
of announcements to the first column of
the Times and witness so much laughing and
weeping, learning and forgetting, that they cannot
but leave perceptible traces upon bodies
which at best are only constructed to endure
through six or seven of such periods. Yet
when, after protracted wanderings, we revisit
familiar scenes, it is seldom change so much as
the lack of it, that astonishes us. The houses
are where they were ; the church steeple maintains
its position, looking down upon the well-known
tombstones, with but a few additions to
their number ; everywhere are evidences of the
mortifying fact that summer and winter, seedtime
and harvest, have succeeded one another
quite in the usual fashion, in spite of our

absence. It takes nothing less than an earthquake,
a conflagration, or a deluge, to give us
the shock which we had half looked forward to.
In individuals, too, as in places, the work of a
twelvemonth is often more destructive than that
of a dozen. We return, after ten years of not
more than ordinary vicissitude, to find our
friends a little greyer perhaps, a little stouter, a
little less active, but otherwise scarcely altered.
They are busied with the same employments as
of yore ; they are absorbed in the same petty
cares and amusements ; we recognise the old
tricks of speech and gesture, the old virtues and
failings, and too often, alas ! the old jokes. The
only startling sensation we are likely to experience
is the discovery that those whom we left in
the nursery have in some unaccountable manner
been replaced by young men and women. The
reader must now be asked to renew acquaintance,
after a supposed interval of ten years, with the
personages parted from at the end of the last
chapter ; some of whom, as will be seen, have
grown almost out of recognition in that lapse of
time, while others have remained as nearly
stationary as the laws of nature will permit,
and two have quietly slipped off the stage
altogether, and have already been all but forgotten
by the survivors.

To Margaret this decade has given what, in

the common course of things, it could hardly
fail to do — a less impatient acquiescence in her
lot as a rich woman to whom money is no
blessing and a lonely woman who is seldom
allowed to be alone ; a clear understanding of
the uses and drawbacks of wealth ; and, in
addition to these advantages, a considerable increase
of employment for body and mind in the
shape of certain responsibilities which shall be
more fully dwelt upon by-and-by. Upon Hugh
Kenyon, earning distinction, unaccompanied by
notoriety, in desultory frontier warfare, and
groaning over uncongenial office work as holder
of a staff appointment in the sweltering heat of
Madras, it has bestowed a fine crop of grey
hairs, a heartfelt detestation of the East, and a
brevet colonelcy. To Mrs. Winnington it has
brought a change of circumstances which, anticipated
and discounted as it might have been by
so far-seeing a lady, has not the less contributed
towards souring a temper which was never of
the sweetest. The truth is that, after the poor
old Bishop of Crayminster's death and burial,
his savings were found to fall far short of the
amount which he had always led his wife to
imagine that she might trust to inheriting : and
Mr. Brune declared that, in the first agony of so
cruel an aggravation of her bereavement, the
widow was for countermanding that handsome

marble efiigj which adorns the north transept
of the cathedral and keeps the virtues of Bishop
Winnington before the eyes of a too forgetful
public. Possibly, however, it was not Mrs.
Winnington who defrayed the cost of the
monument.

When these lamentable events occurred, Mr.
Brune had himself been for some time a
widower. The fragile mistress of Broom Leas
shivered out of the world one bitter January
morning, and was regretted as much as, and
missed perhaps rather more than, she deserved.
Her place was supplied, so far as a mother's
place can be supplied, by Margaret, who took
almost entire charge of little Nellie, saw that
the boys had buttons on their shirts and jackets
on their backs, and in numberless other ways
proved herself of invaluable service to a distressed
elderly gentleman whose notions on the
subject of household economy were of a most
elementary kind.

That Mrs. Winnington and her only unmarried
daughter Edith should take up their
abode for a time with Mrs. Stanniforth, after
circumstances obliged them to vacate the Palace,
was but natural and proper. It was only a
temporary arrangement, Mrs. Winnington was
careful to explain. She herself disapproved on
principle of joint establishments ; and, although

she was willing so far to comply with dear Margaret's
wishes as to remain where she was until
a suitable home could be found for her elsewhere,
it must be clearly understood that she
could never consent to inhabit Longbourne upon
any other footing than that of a guest. Nevertheless,
time went on, and, somehow or other,
the suitable home could not be discovered.
Sometimes j\Irs. ^\^imiington took lodgings in
London for a month or so, sometimes she allowed
herself a brief period of rest and relaxation
at the sea-side, and her interviews with
house-agents were constant ; but nothing came
of it all ; and Mrs. Prosser, the housekeeper,
respectfully begged to be informed whether she
was expected to take her orders from visitors ;
because, in that case, she should be wishful to
give up the situation, not having been accustomed
to serve two mistresses.

Perhaps Mrs. Prosser was not the only
person who would fain have sped the parting
guest ; for in ten years' time there had sprung
up a generation of young people, whose views
were clear and decided, as the views of young
people generally are, and who did not hesitate to
give expression to them among themselves. It
is with this younger generation that we shall
henceforth principally have to deal ; and probably
the best day on which to bring them

under the reader's notice will be that of the
Oxford and Cambridge cricket match, a day
memorable on various grounds — memorable in
the annals of cricket as having witnessed the
defeat of Cambridge in a single innings ; memorable
to the Bonnes and Stanniforths as being the
crown and finish of their respective representatives'
Oxford's career ; memorable, above all, as
the day on which Walter carried out his bat,
after having put together a score of 182, without
giving a single chance from beginning to
end.

Of the many thousands who strolled round
and round Lord's ground during the two days
of the match, not a few stood still to stare at a
remarkably pretty girl, who, perched upon the
box of a carriage, with her eyes fixed intently
upon the players, was evidently unconscious of
the admiration which she was exciting. A very
small proportion of them — one in a thousand,
perhaps — knew her name ; for Miss Brune's
visits to London were few and far between, and
her acquaintance with fashionable society was
confined to such members of it as dwelt within
the limits of her own county. Nor, indeed, had
she any present desire to enlarge that acquaintance,
or to scrutinise the throng of celebrities and
beauties collected in her neighbourhood, having
little in common with the ladies who frequent

VOL. I. I

Lord's rather with a view to be seen than to see.
Everything at its proper time. Miss Brune had
no objection to the pleasures of social intercourse
as obtainable at the half-dozen or so of balls to
which she was taken in the course of the year,
■or at the garden-parties which were the form of
entertainment most in favour round Crayminster ;
but she went to Lord's to look at cricket, and it
is certain that she was as capable a judge of the
game as any man in the Pavilion. It was not
for nothing that she had had her shins bruised
and her finger-nails cracked by the bowling of a
succession of brothers, all of whom had subsequently
achieved renown on better-known
fields than that of Broom Leas ; and, although
long skirts and conventional prejudices forbade
her any longer to handle the bat and ball on her
own account, there were few of the great annual
contests in which she did not take a vicarious
part. This particular University match — the
last in which Walter was to figure — had occupied
all her thoughts for weeks beforehand, and during
the earlier part of it she had sat motionless
upon her perch, her right hand supporting her
chin and her left holding up her parasol, as inattentive
to the ceaseless babble of her younger
brothers as she had been unconscious of the
flattering remarks to which her small regular
features, her abundant dark hair, and her blue

eyes were giving rise among the ranks of the
bystanders.

But now the first day .was past and gone, the
morning of the second was wearing away ;
Cambridge, having followed their innings, were
making a bad fight of it ; the result of the game
was a foregone conclusion, and Miss Brune was
able to bestow some notice upon the outer world,
and to nod in a friendly way to a strikingly
handsome and well-dressed young man, who
lounged up to the side of the carriage and took
off his hat to her.

Rather poor fun,' he remarked, sith a backward
jerk of his head towards the field.

Yes ; isn't it horrid ? I do hate a followed.'


It is better than a draw, though, I suppose.*

^ Oh, of course ; but it's disappointing all the
same. I wanted to see Walter go in again.'

How inconsiderate of you to wish for such
a thing on a blazing hot day like this! If I
were Walter, I should be very well satisfied to
rest upon my laurels.'

^ Ah, bub you don't care about cricket,' said
Miss] Brune, looking down pityingly upon her
interlocutor, who had drawn a mat over the top
of the wheel to protect his coat-sleeves, and was
resting his elbows upon it, while he contemn

2

plated her with a sort of lazy complacency and
approbation.

I beg your pardon ; I like cricket very well
in a mild way. I don't think it quite the
only thing in the world worth living for, I
confess.'

No more does Walter,' retorted Miss Brune,
with quick resentment.

'Who said he did? Don't be so peppery,
Nell ! Perhaps I wasn't thinking of Walter at
all.'

*You meant me, then, I suppose. Now,
Philip, if you are going to say disagreeable
things, you had better take yourself off.'

I shall do nothing of the sort,' answered the
other, climbing deliberately into the carriage,
which was empty at that moment, and kneeling
upon the seat, so that his face was close to Miss
Brune' s elbow. ' I shall stay as long as I please,
and say as many disagreeable things as I like.'

You cannot force me to listen to you, at all
events,' cried the girl, resolutely turning her back
upon him.

Very well ; I'll endeavour to be amiable.
I think cricket a glorious national pastime ;
and if I could play as well as Walter, I should
think it more glorious still. Will that satisfy
you? You'll allow that it isn't a game for a
bad player.'

You could play well enough, if you close
to take the trouble,' answered Nellie, seriously ;
it's no use attempting to do anything without
practice. But, I suppose,' she added presently,
you like private theatricals and dancing and
flirtation, and all that sort of amusement better.'

Who's saying disagreeable things now ? I
never knew anybody so quarrelsome as you are.
One would have thought that you would have
been on your good behaviour for the first two
or three days after meeting an old friend whom
you haven't seen for so many months — but no!
However, I don't mean to quarrel with you. In
the first place, it is too hot ; m the second place,
we have the whole summer before us ; and
in the third place, public wrangling is unseemly.'


Nellie turned her dark blue eyes upon the
speaker with a look of some alarm and contrition.
'I didn't mean to be disagreeable really, Philip,'
she said.

1 forgive you,' replied the other, gravely.
Try not to do it again, that's all. Now tell me
all the Longbourne news. Between ourselves, I
am sick of Oxford and sick of private theatricals ;
and, as for dancing and flirtation, I should
imagine you were more proficient in those arts
than I can pretend to be.'

But Miss Brune was not listening to him.

^ Oh, what was that?' she exclaimed. 'Eight
wickets down! How did he get out? I didn't
see it at all, did you ? This comes of talking,
instead of looking at the game.'

Oh, bowled, or caught, or run out, or something;
/ don't know. Anyhow, there's an end
of him; and there will be an end of the whole
business presently. Tell me about Long-bourne
! '

There is no Longbourne news to tell.
Nothing ever happens in our part of the world,
you know ; at least, nothing that you would care
to hear about. Mrs. Stanniforth is looking tired
and ill, I think. I wanted her to come up with
us and see the match; but she said she could
hardly manage it. Of course, if you had been
in the eleven, it would have been another thing.
How glad she will be to have you back again! '

Dear old Meg ! Any prospect of Mrs.
Winnington's finding a house ? '

Nellie shook her head and sighed. 'Papa
says the only chance of getting rid of her would
be for Mrs. Stanniforth to let Longbourne, and
go away until she was settled somewhere. But,
unfortunately, Mrs. Stanniforth doesn't want to
get rid of her.'

I wonder now,' said Philip, musingly,
whether somebody couldn't be found to marry
Mrs. Wilmington ? '

Oh, I'm afraid not. Oh no; I should think
there could not be the faintest shadow of a hope
of that.'

Well, one never can tell; a fool is born
every hour. Do you know that Colonel Kenyon
is expected home from India ? '

Yes; Mrs. Stanniforth told me. You are
not thinking of him as a husband for Mrs.
Winnington, are you ? '

No; hardly. Though, now you mention it,
I don't know that he oughtn't do. Perhaps it
wouldn't be an altogether unsuitable match. He
must be some years younger than the dear old
lady, certainly ; but I should imagine him the
sort of man who would look about twice his age,
whereas our beloved Winnington is still quite
blooming by candlelight; and, at all events, they
would have one point of resemblance, they are
both bores.'

Why do you think Colonel Kenyon a bore?
Mrs. Stanniforth says he is one of the best men
that ever lived.'

You give me question and answer in the
same breath. However, I admit that I am
prejudiced. I dare say he isn't a bad sort of old
fogey, when you know him. I don't remember
much about him myself; only I can answer for
the fact that he writes uncommonly long-winded
letters, and then he has been held up before me

all my life as a bright example. One can't feel
very amiably towards people of that stamp. He
is such a very, very white sheep, that I, who
have a tuft or two of black on my fleece, have
some difficulty in recognising him as a brother.
Speaking honestly now, don't you think that, if
it were literally true that the King could do no
wrong, it would be about time to cut off the
King's head, and despatch him into a world where
he could feel himself more at home than in this
one? '

But Xellie was spared the necessity of
making an" reply, for at this juncture one of
the players hit the ball well up into the air, and
the next moment a roar ran round the ground,
to which Philip contributed his share by singing
out, ' Well caught ! '

'Well caught!' echoed Miss Brune, rather
contemptuously; 'why, my dear Philip, how
could he help himself! He might have caught
it in his mouth.'

Perhaps so; but I never saw the catch yet
that did not fill me with admiration and amazement.
If I had been in that man's place, the
ball would inevitably have slipped through my
fingers, and you would be inwardly joining in
the hooting at this moment. I tremble when I
think of the number of times that I shall be
disgraced in your eyes before the autumn.'

I don't believe you will play in a single
match, unless Walter absolutely drags you onto
the ground said Nellie.

And then Mr. Brune came up, followed by a
small phalanx of young sons, and Philip
descended from the carriage, and presently
sauntered away.

He met with may greetings, and had to
remove his glossy hat over and over again, ashe
made his way through the crowd ; for Mr.
Marescalchi was tolerably well known in London
as one of the best amateur actors of the day,
and his pleasant address had recommended him
to the favour of a few great ladies, and consequently
to that of numerous others who aspired
to be great. At Oxford he had been in a good
set ; that is to say, that he had associated principally
with youths of noble birth or noble fortunes;
and as he had adapted himself to their manners
and customs, had spent money freely and had
always been cheery and in good spirits, he had
ended by acquiring a popularity extending
beyond University circles. Through the medium
of his college acquaintances he had made his
way into houses the portals of which Mrs.
Winnington, for instance, with all her superior
claims to recognition, had never succeeded inforcing
: hence some severe observations about
snobs and toadies were occasionally heard in the

vicinity of Longbourne. Mrs. Winnington did
not love this upstart; but society at large, which
naturally did not care a pin whether he were an
upstart or no, liked him very well, and petted
him as much as his heart could desire.

He threaded his way among the carriage -
wheels and luncheon-baskets and bright coloured
parasols and attendant flunkeys, basking in the
moral and material sunshine, smiled upon by the
world, and smiling back in return — a faultlessly
appointed little figure, from the bouquet in his
button-hole to the tips of his shiny boots ; and
doubtless many of those who watched his
progress thought him much to be envied. There
is a certain combination of youth, health,
prosperity, good looks, and fine clothes upon
which even the sternest philosopher can hardly
help casting just one longing, Lingering look.
When the match and the shouting were over,
and the released spectators were rushing towards
the gates, jostling one another in accordance
with the custom of all assemblages after a show,
Mr. Marescalchi loitered on the ground and let
the stream pass by. He himself was seldom ina
hurry, and disliked being pushed about and
elbowed. And while, half-sitting upon his
stick, he surveyed with placid compassion the
foolish people who were making themselves so
unnecessarily hot, a tall, broad-shouldered young

man came striding across the grass behind him,
and clapped him on the shoulder, with —

Hullo, Philip ! you've the very fellow I
wanted to see. What train are you going down
by?'

Marescalchi turned round, rubbed his
shoulder, and looked up reproachfully at the
new-comer. ^ How you made me jump ! ' he
exclaimed.

The other burst into a ofreat lauo^h. ' Made
you jump, indeed ! one would think you were
an old woman. This comes of ruining your
nerves by smoking all day and sitting up all
night. Perhaps you thought I was going to
serve a writ upon you, though ? ' he added, in a
more sober tone.

^ My dear, good fellow, don't talk about such
horrid things! So you never got a second
innings, after all. Nellie was quite plaintive
over it, and snubbed me savagely because I
suggested that the weather was hardly suitable
for athletics.'

What a lazy little beggar you are ! Well,
you haven't answered my question yet. Are
you going down by the 3.45 or the 6.20 ?
Nellie and the others have gone off to look at
the pictures, so I don't suppose we shall catch
the express.'

Marescalchi had put a cigarette between his

lips, and was stooping down to scrape a match
upon the sole of his boot. ' I don't think I can
manage to get down to Longbourne this
evening,' he said ; ' I've got a lot of things todo
in town.'

Oh bosh ! ' returned his friend ; ' what can
you want to do in London at this time of the
year? You had much better come down with
us.' He added, after a momentary hesitation,
It'll be an awful sell for Mrs. Stanniforth if you
don't turn up.'

Walter Brune the man was an enlarged
duplicate of Walter the boy. Fair-haired, blue-eyed,
fresh-complexioned, he bore no trace of
resemblance to the Brunes, who were a small,
dark, and wiry race. ' Walter is a Boulger
from crown to heel,' his father used to say, ' and
if I were not afraid of his giving me a thrashing,
I'd disown him.' Walter, indeed, could have
thrashed most men. He was not handsome,
except in so far as he had the beauty of glowing
health and a splendid physique ; but his face
was the embodiment of honesty and good
humour, and he was certainly pleasant to look
at.

Marescalchi, for reasons of his own, did not
look at him now, but answered in an off-hand
way : ' Oh, I shall turn up all right some time
tomorrow. No ; not tomorrow, by-the-by, but

next day. I remember now that I promised to
dine with Salford tomorrow.'

Walter looked dissatisfied. ' Throw him
over, then,' he said, curtly. ' He won't miss
you, I'll be bound ; and Mrs. Stanniforth will.'

My dear Walter,' began Marescalchi, still
smiling, but with eyebrows slightly raised, ' don't
you think ? '

'Don't I think I had better mid my o\\ti
business, eh? Xo ; I don't. After drv-nursino-
you for so many years, I have a right to lecture
you occasionally ; and you can't say I claim it
very often nowadays. I have never said a
word against any other of your great swell
friends — have I ? — though I don't think you
have got much good from some of them ; but I
do wish you would drop that fellow Salford.
He's as thorough a blackguard as ever stepped.'

Dear, dear I what has he been doing ? '
asked Philip, with an air of innocent wonder.

You know well enough. For one thine
is never quite sober, and I hate a sot. But
that's not the worst of him. I don't think I'm
particularly straitlaced, but there are some
things that I can't get over. I have never seen
Salford without longing to break his neck since
that poor little girl from the pastry cook's disappeared.
She was a silly little giggling things
there wasn't a bit of harm in her till you

fellows chose to amuse yourselves by turning
her empty head ; and now she is irretrievably
ruined, poor wretch! If you or I had done
such a thing, we should have been called infernal
scoundrels ; but Salford is a marquis ; so he's a
fine fellow, and Miss Fanny is a deuced lucky
girl. That's the way you look at it, isn't it? '

There is one thing,' remarked Philip,
imperturbably, 'that I have always noticed
about people who go twice to church on Sunday ;
they get so puffed up that they can't believe in
their neighbours' possessing a comparative
degree of virtue. It's a proud boast, I know,
to be able to sit out two sermons in a week;
I couldn't do it myself, and I look with awe and
reverence upon those who can ; but it doesn't
exactly confer upon you a monopoly of righteousness.
Where's your Christian charity, my
dear Walter ? How do you know that Salford
was the culprit ? For anything he has ever
said to me about it, he may be as innocent of
spiriting Fanny away as I am myself. I wish
the man, whoever he was, could have made it
convenient to wait a few months, I know ; for
her successor was ugly enough to frighten one
out of the shop.'

I didn't think Salford made much of a secret
of it,' said Walter. 'At all events, everybody
put it down to him.'

^ And do you believe what everybody says ? '

^ If you ask me, I do in the present instance.
And I do not believe in Salford's possessing even
what you call a comparative degree of virtue.
And here he comes, blind drunk, as usual. Well ;
I shall be off.'

But Lord Salford had joined the two friends
before Walter could effect his escape, and was
offering civil congratulations to the latter, who
received him as a badger receives a terrier.
Xever saw you in such form before, Brune ; you
made their bowling look pretty foolish. That's
what I call real cricket, you know.'

Bo you ? '

I do, upon my word — first class. I mean
to say, it was the game you know.'

Walter growled out something about hoping
he always played the game.

Oh Lord, yes, my dear fellow, I know you
do ; but everybody gets careless and makes mistakes
sometimes — everybody, except you, that is.
You never make mistakes, by George ! '

Lord Salford was certainly not blind drunk,
nor perhaps was he what a policeman would have
called drunk at all ; but it would be saying too
much to assert that he had not been drunk the
night before, and it is probable that he had been
refreshing; himself with liberal draughts of
brandy and soda in the course of the morning.

He was a red young man — red as to his hair, his
complexion, his eyes, and his hands ; and he was
so singularly ugly that it must have required all
the added halo of his marquisate to touch the
heart of any pastry cook's assistant. As he stood
talking, with his thumbs in his trousers' pockets,
and his stick tucked under his arm, Walter
looked him slowly all over, from head to foot,
with an undisguised contempt which he could
hardly have failed to notice, if he had been at allan
observant person. But he was not very observant.
He went on, in blissful unconsciousness
of these withering glances : —

Well, Marescalchi, what's going to become
of you now ? Going down the country ? Devilish
slow work down in the country at this time of
the year. I'm off to Norway tomorrow morning.
Fishing, fresh air, early hours — all that
sort of thing, you know. Doctor says I must go
easy for a bit.'

Oddly enough, it was not Philip, but Walter
who looked confused by this embarrassing announcement.
That artless giant turned as red
as Lord Salford himself, fidgeted, cast his eyes
down, and altogether presented much more the
appearance of a detected liar than of one who
has detected his neighbour in a lie. Marescalchi's
calm was not in the least disturbed.

Going to Norway, are you ? ' said he ; ' I'm

very glad you mentioned it. When you came
up, I was just telling Brune that I was going to
dine with you tomorrow evening; and I should
certainly have gone to your club at eight o'clock,
if I hadn't happened to meet you now. Are you
quite certain you didn't ask me ? '

Lord Salford stared. ' No, I ain't quite
certain,' he answered. ' I don't remember anything
about it ; but I wouldn't take my oath I
didn't ask you. Beg your pardon if I did, I'm
sure.'

Oh, never mind,' said Philip magnanimously ;
I dare say it was my mistake : I'm always
getting my engagements all wrong.' And when
Lord Salford had passed on, he added : ' I believe
he did ask me, all the same ; but perhaps I
haven't lost much. After all, Walter, I think
you're not far wrong about him ; he is a drunken
sort of sweep.'

'Anyhow,' remarked A\"alter, who had recovered
his cheerfulness, ' you have not got to
dine with him now ; so you may as well come
home with me.'

But Philip explained that he really couldn't
do that. Upon further reflection, he felt sure
that he had some engagement or other for the
following evening. If it wasn't Salford, it must
have been somebody else who had asked him to
dinner. He couldn't speak with any certainty

VOL. I. K

upon the point until he should heave been to his
hotel and glanced over his notes.

Well, then, go back to your hotel,' persisted
Walter, ' and if you find that you are free, you
will have plenty of time to pack up and join us
at the station.'

Philip said, ' All right, old man ; ' and so
Walter went away, knowing full well that he
would search the platform in vain for his friend's
figure, when the hour of departure arrived.

As soon as he was quite out of sight, Philip
heaved a sigh of relief and walked ofi", humming
an air from an opera.

CHAPTER YI.

THE wanderer's return.

That Colonel Kenyon should make for Long-bourne
immediately after landing upon his native
shores was quite natural and proper. Mrs.
Winnington conceded as much, and Mrs. Winnington
was admitted to be an authority upon
matters of propriety. ' I think, my dear,' said
she, ^ that you ought to have Hugh here for a
time, when he comes back. Now that his
mother is dead, he has no home of his own to goto,
and perhaps you owe it to him to show him a
little civility. You might send a note to Portsmouth
to await his arrival, inviting him to come
and stay with you for ten days or a fortnight.
It would be as well just to mention the dates,
because people who have been in India get such
very queer notions of hospitality, and poor dear
Hugh was always a little dense about knowing
when to take himself off. I remember, in days
gone by, when he used to call upon us at the
Palace, how much help he required to get out of
the room. Upon one occasion I actually had to

5:2

pick up his hat and umbrella, and thrust them
into his hand. Quite in a friendly way, you
know, making a sort of joke of it; but if I
had not done something; of the kind he would
never have moved at all. Yes; I think you
should let him find an invitation waiting for
him. He would feel it as a very kind piece of
attention, I am sure.'

And Margaret did not consider herself called
upon to state that such an invitation, minus the
time-limit, as her mother described, had been
written and despatched to Madras some months
before.

Various circumstances had prevented Colonel
Kenyon from breaking his long spell of foreign
service by a return to England on leave. The
battery of horse artillery to which he had been
attached had been ordered home long ago,
directly after the first of the little wars in which
he had been engaged ; but he had not accompanied
it, as at that time he had had an opportunity
of seeing some further service. Then had come
in quick succession the marriage of his two
sisters and the death of his mother, entailing a
disruption of all direct home-ties ; and, although
when the fighting was over, and he had gained
a brevet-colonelcy, a Cab., and a bullet in his
left shoulder as his share in the results of the
same, he might have got away for a time from

a country that he hated, he chose rather, upon
mature consideration, to accept the offer of a
well-paid staff appointment, to serve out his five
years, and then to turn his back upon India for
good and all. To lay by money and provide
himself with something like a competency was
the chief object of his life ; for he had ever
before him a distant, bright ideal, towards the
realisation of which this prosaic achievement was
a small, yet absolutely necessary, step. A journey
from Madras to London and back is not to be
performed without a considerable outlay ; therefore
he had stoutly resisted his own longings
and Margaret's frequent entreaties, and had
patiently bided his time, comforting himself in
moments of depression with an altogether illogical
conviction that so much labour and self-denial
must surely obtain their reward at last.

A more ardent lover might perhaps have
acted differently, but a more ardent lover might
have been less consistently faithful. Fidelity to
a dream would appear to be about the toughest
sort of fidelity of which we mortals are capable ;
and, according to enlightened students of human
nature, all love, in the romantic acceptation of
the term, partakes of the character of dreams.
Nothing, say they, is so inevitably certain to
dispel its illusions as daily intercourse with the
adored creature ; and in those rare cases in Which

men have remained true to their first love for a
matter of ten years or more, it is almost invariably
absence that has kept them so. Be
that as it may, Hugh Kenyon was as much in
love with Margaret Stanniforth all through his
Indian career as he had been at the beginning
of it. His love, it is true, was of a sober kind,
as became a grey-headed man whose acquaintance
had been chiefly with the seamy side of life ; but
it may have been to that very attribute that it
owed its constancy. For the rest, nobody knew
better than he did that his vision of happiness
rested upon no more solid foundation than
strength of will and a vague faith in poetical
justice. Margaret's long letters, in which the
cares and interests of her daily life were fully
treated of, and most of the episodes of Philip
Marescalchi's school and college career were duly
set forth, had convinced him that time had
passed a healing hand over her wounds ; and he
no longer feared, as he had once done, that in
asking her to be his wife he might seem to
outrage the memory of her husband and his
friend. This was a comfort, so far as it went,
but it did not go very far. He perceived that,
if she was less forlorn, she stood in the less need
of a protector ; nor could he disguise from
himself that his prediction was in course of
fulfilment, and that Marescalchi already stood,

to some extent, in the position which he had
once occupied.

All this being' so, it is scarcely to be wondered
at that Colonel Kenyon should have made
few new friends during the lengthy period of his
exile, nor that he should have passed for a
rather dull and morose fellow in the Madras
Presidency. He possessed a photograph of
Margaret, taken years before by the one Cray-minster
photographer, which, in the absence of
its original, served him as companion and friend.
This work of art represented a simpering girl of
sixteen, standing beside a top-heavy table, and
dragging a wreath of paper flowers out of a
leather work basket. It did not even remotely
resemble Margaret Stanniforth ; but its owner
considered it, upon the whole, a very satisfactory
likeness — not complimentary, to be sure, still
quite pleasing. It accompanied him through all
his campaigns, it was gazed at with religious
fervour every morning and evening, and Hugh
never sat down to indite one of his voluminous
epistles to Longbourne without propping it upon
the desk before him to lend inspiration to his
ideas. Sometimes he even stopped writing to
talk to it for a few minutes, for the wisest and
most sober of men will do silly things when
nobody is looking on.

When at length the time came for our love-lorn

warrior to exchange letters for speech, and
doubt for certainty, he was by no means so overjoyed
as he had expected to be. In his patient,
matter-of-course sort of way, he had been rather
unhappy for ten years ; but his condition had
not been so bad but that it might easily become
worse, and at forty-five a man takes such possibilities
into consideration. Perhaps he feared
his fate too much : it cannot be said that his
deserts were small. He did not rush home
overland — there being really no need for hurry
but economically took passage in a troopship,
and in due time disembarked at Portsmouth, accompanied
by a few comrades in arms who, like
himself, had been away long enough to look for
no very enthusiastic welcome on their return to
the mother-country.

Colonel Kenyon was so far more fortunate
than they that he found at his club in London a
very kind and cordial note, informing him that
his Longbourne friends were anxiously expecting
his arrival. Having despatched a postcard
in answer to this, he took his ticket, on the
following afternoon, for Crayminster, where a
further and a wholly unanticipated compliment
awaited him. For the first thing that he saw,
when the train entered the station, was a tall
lady, dressed all in black, who was eagerly
scanning the carriages as they passed her, as

if ill search of some one whom she could not
discover, and whose features and figure he
would have recognised among a thousand.

Hugh's heart came up into his mouth. He
had never supposed that Margaret would think
of coming down to Crayminster to meet him,
and her havens done so filled him with an
absurd delight and elation. When her eyes
rested upon hun for a second, and then passed
on, he was not hurt. ' No wonder she doesn't
know my yellow cheeks and grey hair,' he
thought to himself. Her own hair, as he
noticed, in that momentary glimpse, had a
streak of silver in it here and there ; but her
face — that pleasant, kindly face, which was to
him the most beautiful the world could show —
was unaltered, or had altered only for the better.
She had a bright colour, and had the appearance
of being in good health and good spirits ; and he
could not help being a little glad to see that her
widow's cap had disappeared, though she still
wore mourning. All these details he took in atone
glance, and then the train glided on, and he
lost sight of her. But, before it came to a
standstill, Colonel Kenyon's head was thrust out
of the window, his right hand was fumbling for
the door-handle, and he was waving a greeting
with his left, while he called out cheerily,
This is really too good of you.'

The next instant he was thanking Ms stars
that Mrs. Stanniforth's back had been turned
towards him, and that she had neither seen his
signals nor heard his joyous haiL For lo and
behold ! a very good-looking young man had
jumped down on to the platform and was embracing
her publicly, in total disregard of the
customs of a self-restrained nation, and Hugh
heard her cry, ' At last ! I am so glad ! I was
afraid you were not coming after all.'

Colonel Kenyon collected his coats and umbrellas
with the saddened and humiliated feelings
of a man who has answered when he has not
been spoken to. Fain would he have sneaked
out of the station without malting himself
known ; but this was hardly practicable, so he
advanced, putting as good a face upon things ashe
could assume ; and as soon as Margaret
caught sio^ht of him she knew him, and bade
him welcome with a warmth which left nothing
to be desired.

^ Oh, Hugh ! ' she exclaimed, holding out
both hands ; and with that brief ejaculation her
hearer was satisfied, understanding by it all that
he was intended to do. He himself could find
no more striking rejoinder than, ' Here I am,
you see.'

Yes ; but why did you not tell us that you
were coming by this train ? You only said you

would be down in time for dinner, and I was
just thinking of asking Philip to wait in the
town, so as to meet you. I needn't introduce
you to Philip, need I ? '

Colonel Kenyon intimated that no such introduction
was necessary ; and, as the two men
shook hands, each inwardly passed a hasty judgment
upon the other. Colonel Kenyon set
Philip down as a swaggering young puppy;
and Marescalchi said to himself that the newcomer
was a solemn old bore, who looked as if
he would be certain to make himself obnoxious
in one way or another before very long. Of
course, however, they smiled upon one another
amicably, and said what the occasion appeared
to call for; the younger man, who was the more
at his ease, showing to greater advantage than
the elder in this interchange of civilities.
Marescalchi, indeed, prided himself upon always
knowing the proper thing to say and do,
and presently he gave evidence of his nice
perception by a truly magnanimous offer.

^ You two will have lots to talk about,' he remarked,
when they had passed out of the station,
and were standing beside the open carriage which
was waiting for them. ' You had better drive
up together, and I'll walk.'

But it is such a long walk, Philip, and it is
so hot,' said Margaret irresolutely.

Never mind,' answered Philip, with a rather
plaintive look at the long stretch of sunny landscape
that lay before him.

And then a bright idea occurred to Margaret.
^ Suppose ice were to walk ? ' she suggested to
Hugh. 'We might go across the fields, you
know, and it would be quite like old times.
Would it be too much for you ? '

Hugh said he should enjoy the walk of all
things, and it certainly would not be too much
for him, ' But will not you be tired yourself ? '
he asked. ' You said something about the heat
just now, and it is a good three miles, as I well
remember.'

You must have forgotten other things if you
think I am afraid of a three-mile walk. I like
walking much better than driving ; and, besides,
I mean to go very slowly, so as to have as long
a time as possible to talk to you in.'

Hugh could say no more ; and the arrangement
evidently met the views of Mr. Marescalchi,
who got into the carriage without more ado, and
was speedily driven away, leaning back luxuriously,
and blowing a cloud from the cigarette
which he had just lighted.

The two friends who were thus left to themselves
had, no doubt, a great deal to say to one
another ; but they experienced the common
difficulty of friends who have been long separated

in not knowing exactly where to begin. During
the first quarter of a mile of their walk, which
led them across pasture-land and through hop-gardens,
little passed between them save questions
and answers referring to the productiveness of
the soil and the changes which time had wrought
in the ownership thereof, occasional allusions to
bygone years, and comparisons between the
climate of England and that of India. Mrs.
Stanniforth led the way, and did most of the
talking. Hugh was contented to listen, to steal
furtive glances at his companion while she walked
beside him, and to study her full-length figure
when, as sometimes happened, the narrowness of
the path forced them to advance in single file.
But when they reached a certain stile, beyond
which stretched sloping fields of oats and barley,
Mrs. Stanniforth, instead of getting over it,
wheeled round, and, resting her elbows upon its
topmost bar, attacked Hugh point-blank with : —
Well ; what do you think of him ? '
There was no need to particularise the individual
to whom her question referred. Hugh
laughed and said, ' I think he has a very pretty
suit of clothes od, and his hair is nicely brushed,
and his moustache promises well. Also, I am
glad to observe that he does not suffer from shyness,
and that he pronounces the English language
after the most fashionable style.'

Margaret looked a little annoyed. ' You
know that is not what I mean,' she said.

What do you want me to say ? I only saw
the young man for live minutes, and, considering
that during those five minutes I was a great deal
more anxious to examine you than him, I think
I made a pretty good use of my opportunities.
It seemed to me that I noticed all about him that
there was to notice.'

This was so undeniably true that Margaret
was silenced for a few minutes. Presently, however,
she felt constrained to add, ' Some people
attach a good deal of importance to first impressions.
You don't, I dare say, because you are
so sensible ; still, I suppose you do have them.'

I seldom take to strangers,' answered Hugh
evasively.

Ah ! I know what you think ; you think
him conceited. Well, perhaps, he may be a little
conceited, but what of that ? Almost all young
men are so, and it soon wears off. And Philip
has — I won't say more reason, but certainly more
excuse — for being conceited than most of them.
You have no idea how he is run after. I wrote
to you, you know, about his wonderful acting,
and the quantity of engagements that he always
has in consequence ; and latterly his acquaintance
seems to have grown larger. He has only just
managed to escape from London, though he

wanted very nincli to come down on the afternoon
of the match. He has declined I don't know how
many invitations for the next two months. It
would not be very surprising if all that attention
had turned his head just a little bit, would it ? '

Hugh admitted that such a result was only
what might be expected.

But it hasn't done so really ; to me he is
just the same as he always was. You won't
allow yourself to be prejudiced against poor
Philip, will you, Hugh ? I can't tell you what
a disappointment it will be to me if you do not
like him. He has had to fight against so much
prejudice ; and I sometimes think that, with the
exception of myself and Walter Brune, he has
no real friends in the world.'

I thought you said he was so popular.'

So he is ; but popularity of that kind is a
poor substitute for the family affection which
other young men have to fall back upon ; and,
although you might not suppose it until you
knew him well, Philip is very affectionate and
very sensitive. I don't think I should ever have
cared for him so much as I do if all my friends
had not set their faces against him so in the
beginning. He is my ugly duckling,' she added
with a smile.

Oh, I don't think you could call him ugly ! '
said Hugh generously. The truth is that esteem

was the measure of Colonel Kenyon's notion of
comeliness. He honestly believed all the persons
whom he was fond of to be well-looking,
and could never be brought to acknowledge that
there was anything to admire in those whom he
disliked.

Margaret laughed. ' Xo,' she said ; ' his
worst enemies could hardly bring that accusation
against him. He isn't an ugly duckling
any more now ; he is a full-grown swan, and I
am not afraid of anyone's failing to do j justice
to his plumage. But after all, as good-natured
people used to say to me in the days when I was
a lanky girl and painfully conscious of my
lankiness, beauty is only skin-deep.'

Oh dear, yes! what does it signify whether
a man's nose is straight or crooked ? So Philip
has made up his mind to be called to the bar,
has he ? '

Yes ; he is eating his dinners.'

And working ? '

• I believe so. At least he is a pupil in a
barrister's chambers ; of course he could not do
much in that way while he was at Oxford.
Shall we walk on ? '

They passed upwards, brushing their way
against the whispering barley that clothed the
hill-side. It was a lovely summer afternoon ;
shadows of light clouds were creeping over the

woods ; the pleasant English landscape was at
its best. In the universal greenness, in the
softness of the atmosphere, in the hazy blue
distances, there was infinite refreshment for
eyes that had ached under a tropical sun and
had grown weary of gazing upon palms, and
rice-fields, and parched yellow plains. Hugh
soon ceased to think about Marescalchi and his
prospects — a subject with which his correspondence
for the past few years had dealt pretty
exhaustively — and began building castles in the
air on his own account. But his companion's
thoughts, it appeared, were still running in the
same channel. On the edge of the woods which
bounded the Lono;bourne estate she halted ao-ain,
and said abruptly : —

Don't you think it is much the best and
wisest plan to let a young man have perfect
liberty of action ? '

Hugh considered for a moment, as his habit
was, before replying, ' Well ; if I had a son of
my own, I think I should be inclined to see
what use he was likely to make of his liberty
before I quite gave it up to him.'

'Yes, in theory that is all very well ; but
practically there are difficulties in the way of
setting limits, especially for a woman. I doubt
whether it would be wise to tie your son to
your apron-string, if you could ; but, as a

VOL. I. L

matter of fact, you can't. Supposing you do
establish a sort of surveillance over him, and
make him understand that he must never
absent himself for two or three days without
some excuse, and ask him questions about where
he has been and what he has been doing — what
is the good ? You only make him dislike you,
aud he takes his own way all the same.'

Hugh said there was something in that
certainly. ' Has anyone been advising you to
establish a surveillance over Philip?' he asked.
Oh, I am always being inundated with
good advice ; that is the inevitable fate of a
lone, lorn woman,' she answered laughing, and
walked on into the wood.

What a treat it is to see oaks and beeches
again ! ' Hugh exclaimed. ' Dear old country !
I should like to go upon half pay, and buy a
cottage near Crayminster, and end my days
there.'

Oh, how I wish you would ! Only of
course you would hate it before a year was
over. I have missed you so dreadfully, Hugh.
Now that I have got you again, I intend to keep
you for a long, long time. You do owe me a
proper visit, don't you ? '

'I'll stay as long as you'll keep me,'
answered Hugh, smiling ; 'and look here,
Margaret, don't you let yourself be worried

about Philip. We'll make a man of him between
us ; and if ever he should want a friend,
he may count upon finding one in me — for your
sake.'

Her face lighted up with pleasure. ' How
good you are ! ' she cried. ' But I need not
have doubted you. I might have known that
you would at least give him a fan* trial. Some
people seem as if they could only see his faults.
They might remember that we are not all
faultless ourselves.'

Tell them to mind their own business,' said
Hugh. A natural association of ideas prompted
him to add, after a short pause, ' Mrs. Winning-ton
is still with you, I suppose.'

Margaret turned her head quickly, and gave
him a half deprecatory, half-suspicious glance.
Yes,' she answered ; ' and I hope to be able to
induce her to remain with me permanently. At
present she won't hear of it ; but I think, little
by little, I may accustom her to the idea. Of
course it is a great thing for me to have her and
Edith in the house, instead of living quite alone,
as I used to do.'

I am sure it must be,' said Hugh in perfect
o^ood faith.

And in some ways it is an advantage to
them too. There is really no house in this
neighbourhood that would do for them ; and if

L 2

they go iiway, there seems nothing for it but
settling in London, which neither of them would
like, or else in some watering-place or other.
My mother, I know, dreads the society of a
watering-place on Edith's account ; and she is
always so anxious lo do the best she can for us
all, that I quite hope she will come round to
admitting that Longbourne is the only possible
home for her,'

(your dear Mrs. Stanniforth,' Mr. Brune
remarked, on a subsequent occasion, to Hugh,
expends an immense amount of wasted energy
in the effort to persuade herself and others that
her mother is not an infernally disagreeable old
woman')

Colonel Kenyon, as the reader may have
noticed, was not very quick at receiving ideas,
and he pondered over Margaret's last observation
for some minutes before he came out with the
following brilliant discovery : * By Jove ! Mrs.
Winnino^ton must be looking; out for a husband
for Edith. Dear, dear, how time does go on ! '

Well,' returned Margaret ; ' and if she does
want her daughters to marry, and to marry well,
do you suppose all mothers don't wish the same
thing? I can't see what there is to be ashamed
of in such a very natural ambition.'

No, to be sure,' acquiesced Hugh hastily ;
*in fact, she would be neglecting her duty if she

didn't look after lier daughter's prospects. Only
I should have thought London would have been
a better place than Longbourne. Seeing so few
people as you do '

Ah, but I see more people nowadays ! The
house is often full of visitors — friends of my
mother's, you know — and I dare say it is very
good for me to be obliged to come out of my
shell. By-the-bye, I have a friend of my own
coming down next week whom I particularly
want you to meet — Tom Stanniforth. I think
I wrote to you about him, did I not?'

You told me in one of your letters that you
had met him in London, and that you thought
him a very ^^^ood fellow.'

I don't think I used those words, but they
describe him accurately enough. He is exactly
that — a thoroughly good fellow. Isn't it odd
that with all his riches, and amiability, and love
of society, he should have remained a bachelor
for so many years ? '

This time Colonel Kenyon's mother-wit
showed itself more acute. He assumed an air
of extreme knowingness, and ejaculated, 'Oho!'

And then Margaret laughed a little, and
said, ' Well, it would be a good thing ; don't
you think so now? But most likely nothing:
will come of it.'

Hem ! I don't know,' said Hugh, meditatively ;

^ I wouldn't give much for his chance if Mrs.

Bennington means '

what?'

I say there is every chance of his falling in
love with Miss Winnington if she at all resembles
her sisters. But what about young
Marescalchi? Isn't he rather a dangerous sort
of customer to have in the house ? '

Philip ? oh, no ! I am glad to say that there
is no fear of any complication in that quarter.
You will think I am becomiuo- a confirmed
match-maker in my old age ; but, to tell you the
truth, I have a plan in my head for Philip's
future also. You remember jSTellie Brune — or
perhaps you don't remember her, for she was a
very small child when you went away. Well,
she has grown up into quite the prettiest girl in
the county; and I feel in a sort of way as if she
were a child of my own, for, since her mother's
death, she has lived almost as much with me as
at home. And so, in the nature of things, she
and Philip have been a good deal thrown
together.'

I see. But hadn't Philip better be earning
an income for himself before he thinks about
taking a wife ? '

Oh, of course ! They are both very young
yet, and this is only a dream of mine, you must
understand; I have never mentioned it to anyone

but you, and I don't even know that there
is anything more than a brotherly and sisterly
affection between them. Sometimes I have
fancied that there might be. that is all ; and
perhaps the wish was father to the thought.'

By this time they had traversed the Long-bourne
park, and were in sight of the great
house, rising square and red from among its
surrounding lawns and flower-beds, its windows
blazing' with the lio-ht of the sinking' sun.

What a fine old place it is ! ' said Hugh
admiringly. ' After all, there is nothing in the
world to beat an English country-house.'

It is thrown away upon me,' said Margaret
with a sigh. ' I want a roof of some kind to
shelter me, but I had rather it had been any but
this one. I have never become reconciled to the
idea of livings at Long-bourne, and I never shall.
Unfortunately, too, the Brunes feel quite as
strongly upon the subject as I do. They don't
object to me, because they know that it is by no
fault of my own that I am here ; but they do
object very much to my successor. I told Nellie,
the other day, that we were expecting Tom
Stanniforth, and she begged me at once not to
ask her to come to the house until after he had
gone. I only wish it were really my own property
; for then I should leave it to Walter.'

'No, you wouldn't,' said Hugh with a perspicuity

which did him credit ; ' you would
leave it to Philip, and that would make things
worse than ever.'

'Perhaps I might; I don't know. While I
am wishing, I might as well wish that I were a
capitalist, instead of a pensioner. Nature never
intended me to be a rich woman, but sometimes
I am afraid that she did cut out Philip for a rich
man.'

And then they entered the house, and this
prolonged dialogue came to an end.

Colonel Kenyon thought it over while dressing
for dinner, and made a mental note of two things :
firstly, that Jack's name had not once been mentioned
in the course of it ; and secondly, that
Mrs. Stanniforth no longer desired to be rid of
her wealth, but, on the contrary, would gladly
have gained a firmer grasp of it, had that been
practicable. Balancing the one consideration
against the other, he was forced to conclude that
a ten years' sojourn in foreign parts had been
rather prejudicial than favourable to his personal
chances of happiness.

CHAPTER Iii.

COLONEL Kenyon LOOKS ON

Colonel Kenyon was not the only guest at Long-bourne.
There were other people staying in the
house : people with high-sounding names ; people
whom he did not know, and for that matter — ashe
said to himself with a touch of ill-humour —
did not want to know. He had caught sight of
some of them playing lawn-tennis in the garden ;
he had heard the voices of others in the library,
whither he had declined to follow his hostess,
alleging that he was too dirty and dusty after
his journey to face an introduction to strangers.
There was something in the discovery that he
was only to be one in a crowd, which chilled
and disappointed him a little. Xot that he had
anything to urge in the abstract against Mrs.
Stanniforth's filling her house with her friends,
if she were so minded ; still, he wished she had
not chosen to do so at this particular time ; and
the contrast between her life as it appeared
actually to be, and the secluded, charitable, uneventful

sort of existence wliicli he had always
pictured her to himself as leading, struck him
somewhat disagreeably. He shut himself up in
his room ; sat there, doing nothing, for an hour
or more ; and was dressed for dinner long before
eight o'clock.

Mrs. Winnington was alone in the drawing-room
when he went downstairs, and was very
glad to see him, or, at all events, was kind enough
to say that she was so.

^ You are looking very old,' she remarked at
once, with the pleasing candour of a friend of
many years' standing ; ' very old and worn out.
I suppose India is quite fatal to health and
appearance, especially in the case of officers, who
always drink more than they ought to do in those
hot climates, I believe. It must be a detestable
country. I was talking about it this morning to
Lady Laura Smythe, who is staying with ns fora
few days. She spent a year out there, at the
time when her brother was Viceroy, you know,
and she describes the society of Calcutta as something
too dreadful. Isn't there a place called
Simla, where everybody goes in the summer
months? — I don't pretend to be well up in the
geography of those regions. She told me some
odd stories of the things that went on there —
very amusing, but really very shocking. From
all that I could make out, the vulgarity of those

people is only equalled by their immorality. No
wonder you are such a wreck.'

I don't think it is either drink or the
vulgarity of Anglo-Indian society that has
turned my hair grey,' Hugh said. ' You don't
look a day older, Mrs. Winnington.'

Oh, my dear Hugh ! ' cried Mrs. Winning-ton,
not ill-pleased, ' that is absurd. After all
that I have gone through, it would be strange
indeed if I were not more wrinkled than I used
to be ; and I have grandchildren growing up
fast, as you know. Xow tell me, how did you
think dear Margaret looking? Better than when
you left her? Rather brighter and more cheerful?
Ah ! I am very glad to hear you say that,
for I take it as a compliment to myself.'

She said it was a great comfort to her to
have you with her,' Hugh remarked.

Poor dear ! I do what I can, and I try to
be with her as much as possible ; but I have
other duties ; I cannot always be here, you
understand.'

I suppose not.'

No ; and now I shall look to you to help
me out in my task and to take my place sometimes,
when I am away,' said Mrs. Winnington
very graciously. ' Between ourselves, dear
Margaret ouo^ht never to be left Ions; without

some trustworthy adviser and protector at her
elbow.'

Why ? ' asked Hugh curtly.

Oh ! you will soon find out why ; I had
rather you made the discovery for yourself.
You remember my old weakness ; I can't bear
speaking against anybody who is absent. But
you can easily imagine the sort of dangers to
which a woman of her generous and unsuspecting
nature is exposed. Her servants, of course,
rob her right and left ; that I cannot help, for I
make it a rule never to interfere in household
matters. But, unfortunately, it is not only her
servants who live upon her. Servants, one
knows, have not very exalted ideas of honesty,
and one is prepared to take them as one finds
them ; but from people of one's own class one
does expect a certain degree of pride and
delicacy ; and when it comes to giving a girl

literally all her dresses However, if Mr.

Brune does not object, I am sure it is no business
of mine. You met young Marescalchi at the
station, I hear.'

Yes ; I saw him for a few minutes.'

Mrs. Bennington shook her head and sighed
so profoundly once or twice that all the garments
in which her ample form was enveloped rustled
and groaned, as in a soft chorus to their wearer's
unspoken eloquence. Colonel Kenyon. however,

expressing no curiosity as to the signification of
these portentous leavings, the good lady was
constrained to express herself with more distinctness.


I greatly fear,' said she. ' that poor Margaret
will have cause to rue the day when she set that
beggar on horseback. One might have foreseen
Avhat would happen ; in fact, I did foresee it ; but
that is a poor consolation. He is going to the
dogs as fast as he can.'

I hope not,' said Hugh.

Oh ! I don't ask you to take my word for
it : use your own eyes and ears, and I have very
little doubt as to what your conclusion will be.
I should feel sorry for the young man, if he were
not so absurdly self-satisfied. Nothing could
have been more foolish and fatal than launching;
him into all the temptations of Oxford ; "but
Margaret would take her own way.'

Why, what would you have had her do ? '
asked Hugh. ' What alternative had you to
suD-rest?'

That is not the question,' answered Mrs.
Bennington, employing a phrase which she had
found very effective in controversies with the
late Bishop, and which still rose instinctively to
her lips in moments of embarrassment ; ' that is
not the question. And pray do not suppose
that I am blaming poor Margaret for her infatuation

; it has brought its own punishment, I am
sorry to say. I happen to know,' she continued
impressively — ' this is between ourselves, and
you need not mention that I spoke to you about
it — but I happen to know that Margaret has
paid his debts upon three separate occasions.
Heavy debts : and that notwithstanding the
fact that he has a most unwisely liberal allowance.'

You don't say so ! Well, that is very bad
of course ; but such things have happened
before now. I mean to say that it don't follow
that, because a young fellow runs up bills at
college, he must go to the dogs. Depend upon
it, Philip will sow his wild oats, like other boys,
and turn out no worse than the generality of
them.'

Mrs. Winnington, however, was not disposed
to entertain this sanguine view of the case.
Mark my words,' she was beginning solemnly ;
but she had to withdraw the conclusion of her
sentence under cover of a cough, for at this
moment Marescalchi himself appeared upon the
scene, and was closely followed by Margaret.

Then the remainder of the house party
began to drop in, singly and in couples : A fat
countess, who was immediately engaged in
confidential conversation by Mrs. Winnington;
Lady Laura Smythe, a dowdy little woman
married to a resplendent stockbroker ; a pompous

colonial governor and his wife ; the senior
partner of a well-known firm of solicitors ; and
sundry Winningtons of both sexes — uncles,
aunts, and cousins — whose faces Hugh dimly
remembered to have seen round the Bishop's
table at the Christmas gatherings of long ago.
It was Mr. Marescalchi who was obliging; enough
to join the stranger on the ottoman where he
was sitting apart, and to classify for his benefit
the people who were forming themselves into
groups in different parts of the long room.

A queer, incongruous sort of crew, are they
not?' said he. ^ Mrs. Winnington asks them
down here, and she doesn't understand minor
her people any better than she understands
mixing her colours, poor old thing ! However,
her intentions are good, and she has a reason
for inviting every one of them. Lady Flintshire
and Lady Laura S my the entertain a good
deal in London ; they will be good for at least
two balls apiece next season, and perhaps for an
invitation to the country in the autumn. Sir
Benjamin Wilkinson is here because Charley
Winnington thinks he would like to be the old
fellow's aide-de-camp when he goes back to the
Cannibal Islands, or wherever it is that he hano-s
out. Hobson, the solicitor, has been asked in
order that he may help Harry out with a brief
or two some day. That is a piece of hospitality

thrown away ; Hobson stays longer than he is
wanted, contradicts everybody, makes a horrible
noise over his soup, and will see Harry further
before he'll bother himself about him. It is
rather hard upon poor Meg, who has to make all
these people talk to each other, and to keep
them from quarrelling. Half of them are
furious at having been asked to meet the other
half ; and one and all are wondering what the
dickens made them come here. Most likely
they will grow mellow and make friends after
dinner ; but then there is always just a hope of
a free fight at one of these gatherings, and that
enables one to bear up under the dreadful
wearisomeness of it all.'

Hugh hardly listened to his neighbour's easy
flow of talk. He was watching Margaret, as
she moved hither and thither in the fading light,
discharging her duties after a quiet, perfunctory
fashion ; and presently he rose unceremoniously
and walked off to renew his acquaintance with
Edith, whom he had recognised, not so much by
anything about her that could remind him of the
child whom he had once known, as by her
remarkable resemblance to her eldest sister,
Lady Travers. When he drew near enough to
her to distinguish her features, he was still more
struck with this family likeness, as well as with
the girl's beauty, which quite surpassed what he

had been led to expect. Edith Winnington —
tall, slight, and extremely fair, with delicate,
refined features, and eyes of a forget-me-not
blue — represented the family type raised to its
ultimate expression. Hugh, who remembered
Lady Travers in the days of her youthful
triumphs, and who remembered also that Lady
Travers's marriage had turned out a notoriously
unhappy one, felt a pang of pity for this victim
unconscious of her doom. While he was shaking
with her, he was thinking to himself,
Poor girl ! I wonder her mother is satisfied
with Tom Stanniforth. AYith such a face and
figure as that, she might have been made to aim
at something higher, I should have thought. 1
hope he'll marry her, though, for he is a decent
sort of man, by all accounts, and at least he
won't beat her.'

You have been a long tinie away,' said
Edith ; ' you must be very glad to be at home
again ; I suppose it must be very hot in India.
No ; I am afraid I do not quite know where
Madras is. I could find it on the map, I think.'

Her manner had a touch of shyness and
hesitation which was not unbecoming ; her
colour kept coming and going while she spoke,
and her eyes wandered over the room. She
seemed to lend an only half-attentive ear to
Hugh's geographical information, and answered
VOL. I. M

this questions a little at random. From all of
which signs that astute observer was led to
conclude that the young woman was looking
for somebody. Could it be Marescalchi, he
wondered, whom she missed ?

Presently Philip joined them, saying in a
confidential undertone that all these old ladies
and gentlemen frightened him. ' I aren't speak
to them ; they are getting hungry ; they are
snapping and growing already ; and if dinner
isn't announced in a few minutes they will
begin devouring one another. Where is Walter,
by-the-bye ? Meg said she had asked him to
come up.'

Edith said that there had been a cricket-match
at Craybridge that day ; very likely
Walter had not been able to get away in time.
But at this moment the defaulter hurried in to
answer for himself ; and after that, Miss Winnington's
eyes became perceptibly less restless.

I wonder which of them it is,' Hugh speculated
within himself. ' I would bet any money
that it's one or the other. That's the way with
your over-clever people, they never see what is
going on under their noses, sow, if I were an
ambitious old woman, I should take precious
good care to keep my daughter out of the way
of those youngsters ; but I suppose it comes to
much the same thing in the long run. If there

is a difference of opinion between that poor girl
and her mother, it is easy to see who will go to
the wall

Will you take in Lady Wilkinson, please,
and sit on the left side of the table ?' whispered
Margaret, interrupting his meditations.

He had ample leisure to resume and pursue
them in the dining-room, for Lady Wilkinson
was sulky, and did not choose to respond to his
well-meant efforts at starting a conversation.
Poor Lady Wilkinson had played at royalty for
so many years, and had grown so accustomed to
taking the chief place at feasts that it pained her
to walk out of the room behind a Lady Laura
Somebody, and to be herself escorted by a mere
colonel of artillery. The treatment by the
mother-country of its returned colonial governors
seemed to her to be wanting in all propriety and
decency ; and, by way of vindicating the slighted
dignity of the class which she represented, she
thought fit to reply to her neighbour's advances
with haughty ' Ohs ' and ' Indeed ' and a liberal
display of the cold shoulder. Colonel Kenyon
accepted his lot with fitting philosophy. He
had no anxiety to talk or to be talked to. The
scene and the personages affected him with a
vague bewilderment, being so unlike those
shadowy visions of Longbourne and its inmates
which had haunted his fancy in the East, and he

ii 2

wanted to familiarise himself with them. He
ate his dinner (which was a very excellent and
well served one), and gazed about him at surrounding
objects — at the oval table, with its load
of flowers and old Chelsea china, upon which a
flood of light was thrown down from the shaded
hanging lamps ; at the servants, flitting noiselessly
to and fro in the vast space of semi-obscurity
beyond ; at Margaret, leaning back in
her chair between Lord Flintshire and Sir Benjamin
Wilkinson, with a look of cheerful resignation
upon her face ; at Mrs. Bennington, voluble
and smiling, playing the part of hostess rather
too ostentatiously ; at Mr. Hobson, eating voraciously,
with his head bent down over his plate
and his elbows on a level with his red ears ; at
Philip, making open and undisguised love to
Edith ; and at Walter, watching this couple with
an inexplicable broad grin upon his honest
countenance. Times were changed indeed since
Margaret had complained of the misery of solitary
repasts. Here was company enough to
satisfy anybody; company, too, which, if not
wildly hilarious, appeared to an outsider quite
sufficiently animated. As Marescalchi had predicted
would be the case, the guests were growing
mellow under the influence of good cheer ; and,
with the exception of Lady Wilkinson, who still
maintained a proud reserve, and of Mr. Hobson,

who was otherwise engaged, everybody was contributing
his or her share to the general buzz of
speech.

The island of Semolina,' Sir Benjamin was
saying in a loud voice, ' requires only to be left
to itself. All the troubles that have taken place
there have arisen out of injudicious interference
on the part of the home government. I was
talking to the Secretary of State the other day,
and I said to him, 'La Semolina far a da se,'
Many men have found the island a difficult one
to govern — my predecessor, as you know, made a
sad hash of it — but I have always got on perfectly
well with the planters myself. The whole
question is one of cheap labour, and is not at all
understood in this country. You will recollect
the agitation that was got up, a few years back,
about the supposed wrongs of the coolies ?'

Lord Flintshire, a mild-mannered little man,
to whom these remarks were addressed, answered
hazily, ' Oh, yes ; to be sure. Niggers — slave
trade — that sort of thing, eh ? ' and had to be set
right at some length.

Lady Laura Smythe was shrilly advocating
the claims of a Home for Adult Idiots which had
lately been established under her patronage.
We are terribly in need of funds to carry us on
just now. No ; I don't want donations, I want
annual subscriptions. Let me enter your name

amoDOf the ten-o:umea subscribers ; I am sure
that won't rum you. Mr. hobson, I am going
to put you down as a subscriber to my Home
for Adult Idiots. You shall have a prospectus
tomorrow.'

Don't trouble yourself, Lady Laura,' says
Mr. Hobson resolutely, with his mouth full.
Very sorry, but I must decline. I have never
felt any interest in idiots. Don't like 'em. Don't
sympathise with 'era.'

How unnatural! ' ejaculates the lady in an
audible aside. 'Oh! but you must sympathise
with them, you know ; you must be made to
sympathise with them. Mrs. Bennington, your
daughter has most kindly promised me a twenty-five
guinea subscription ; I hope you'll allow me
to put you down for a like sum.'

Oh, no, dear Lady Laura ! ' cries Mrs.
Winnington, with a piteous face. 'Five guineas,
please ; I really cannot do more. You forget
what a wretched pauper I am, and there are so
many calls that one cannot turn a deaf ear to.
Where did you go for your drive to-day ? '

Mrs. Winnington was a trifle flushed, and
exhibited symptoms of uneasiness and absence of
mind. Every now and again her eye-glasses
went up to her nose, and were furtively directed
at the other side of the table, where Philip's dark
head was in close proximity to Edith's blonde

one. At last she could keep silence no longer,
and called out, in a sharp voice, ^ Edith, my
dear, Lady Laura is very anxious to be shown
the cathedral. Will you go with her tomorrow ? '

Quite out of the question, Mrs. Winnington,'
answered Philip gravely. ' Your daughter hasa
previous engagement ; she has promised to
ride with me.'

Mrs. Winnington scowled so fiercely at this
that the a'irl looked frightened, and exclaimed
hastily : —

Nonsense, Philip I you know I never promised
any such thing. Of course I can go,
mamma.'

'Very well,' said Philip placidly; ' we'll all
go. 'Mrs. Winnington, why shouldn't you come
too ? You could sit down with Lady Laura and
rest, while Edith dragged me to the topmost
pinnacle of the temple. I have always meant to
climb up there some day, but one wants a
strongish inducement to overcome one's constitutional
laziness.'

wye will keep to our original plan, if you
please,' answered Mrs. Winnington loftily. ' As
for what you are pleased to cal your constitutional
laziness, I suppose that if Dr. Goodford
could not cure you of that, Edith is not very
likely to be able to do so. In any case the task
is not one which I should think it worth while to

confide to her. Your laziness would have been
whipped out of you many years ago, if I had
had anything to do with your education.'

To this Philip only replied, ' Now, now,
Mrs. Winnington,' in a soothing voice, which
had the effect of causing that lady's cheeks to
assume a fine rich hue, and of eliciting an abrupt
and startling chuckle from Walter, who looked
very much abashed when everybody turned
and stared at him.

After this little passage of arms there was a
hollow truce, which lasted up till the tune when
the ladies left the dining-room ; but later in the
evening hostilities were resumed, and several
sharp encounters took place; the advantage
remaining in every instance with the younger
and cooler combatant. Philip had dropped into
a reclining attitude upon the sofa where Edith
was seated, and for a quarter of an hour or so he
amused himself by baffling Mrs. Winnington's
attempts to force him or her daughter from this
position; but at length, growing weary, apparently,
of that form of provocation, he voluntarily
changed his ground, strolled deliberately
up to his enemy's arm-chair, and, leaning back
against the wall with folded arms, struck into
the middle of the conversation which she had
been keeping up under difficulties with Lady
Flintshire. Mrs. Winning-ton at first endeavoured

to ignore him altogether ; but he did
not choose to be ignored, and very soon he had
drawn upon himself as brisk and well-sustained
an attack as he could have wished for.

Hugh, who had vainly attempted to get near
to Margaret, and who had now nothing to do and
no one to talk to, listened with some entertainment
to Mrs. Winnington's onset, which certainly did
not lack vigour. He heard Philip accused by no
obscure implication of being a coxcomb, an
adventurer, a spendthrift, and a libertine, and he
could not help admiring the perfect good humour
with which the young fellow met these charges.
Not for some time did he realise what was
actually Soin; on, and whvthe little knot of silent
spectators who had gradually come together in
the neighbourhood of the unconscious lady's
chair were exchanging looks of keen appreciation
and amusement. Philip was audaciously mimicking
Mrs. Winnington to her face. He had
caught the exact pitch of her voice, the droop of
her eyelids, the emphatic tapping of her left
palm with the first and second fingers of her
right hand, and the phrases with which she was
in the habit of embellishing her discourse.
When he ejaculated, ' That is not the question,'
any one whose back had been turned might have
sworn that it was Mrs. Winnington herself who
was speaking. It was undoubtedly a very

clever performance, and the more so because
Mrs. Winnington's speech and demeanour did
not, after all, afford any specially salient points
for a caricaturist to seize upon. Philip's rendering
of her was strictly faithful, free from any
exaggeration, and, when taken in conjunction
with the severe castigation which he was ostensibly
undergoing, inexpressibly ludicrous. Fat
Lady Flintshire was quivering with suppressed
laughter from head to foot ; Lady Laura Smythe
was grinning sardonically ; Mr. Hobson at one
moment was threatened with an apoplexy, and
had to walk away hastily to recover himself in
the background; and the victim herself never
suspected from first to last that she was being
made a fool of, but was only uneasily conscious
that she was not getting the best of it,
when, by all rights, she ought to have been
doing so.

The exhibitor knew better than to fatigue
his audience with too protracted an entertainment.
He desisted in due time, and, as he
moved away, Mrs. Winnington had the mortification
of hearing Lady Flintshire say : —

Oh, Mr. Marescalchi, I hope you will be
able to come to us for a week in September.
We shall have a good many of your friends with
us, and we are thinking of getting up a little
acting for the young people.'

Philip civilly declined the invitation which
his late antagonist had been angling for all day,
excusing himself upon the plea of other engagements,
and so his triumph was complete; and
the initiated among those who had been listening
to him no doubt felt that talent had met
with its just reward. Perhaps, however, they
had missed the best part of the joke after all ;
for it was only Hugh who had noticed that,
under cover of the encounter above described,
Walter Brune and Edith had quietly withdrawn
into a secluded corner, and were enjoying a long
and unmolested tete-astute.

Sic vos non vobis muttered Colonel Kenyon,
whose stock of classical quotations was somewhat
limited. ' I suppose Walter must be the
man; 1 knew it was one of them.' And he
walked away, quite pleased with his penetration.


He strolled to one of the open windows, and
looked out. The night was warm and still ;
the silent lawns lay bathed in a soft and inviting
moonlight. The wainscot was not a
high one, and nobody was looking. Hugh
yielded to temptation, swung his legs over the
sill, dropped on to the ground, and, walking
round to the front door, got his hat and a cigar.
Soon he had forgotten all about the little
comedy vfhich was being enacted within, and

had reverted to the thought of his own love
troubles. As he paced to and fro, he could hear
the continuous murmur of talk rising and falling
in the drawing-room ; puffs of heated air
escaped through the open windows ; somebody
was singing French songs in an absurd, cracked
voice.

How she must hate all this ! ' Hugh thought.
How she must wish that she could give up her
house to that confounded old mother of hers,
and get away, and live her own life ! But she
can't give it up to her mother, and she won't
give it up in the only Away that it can be given
up. Her pleasure is to sacrifice herself for
others ; no woman ever surrenders a pleasure of
that kind. What is the good of my speaking ? I
had better hold my tongue, and go on hoping
against hope, like the superannuated ass that I
am, to the end of the chapter. It isn't very
delightful staying at Longbourne under existing
circumstances, but it is just a shade better than
being sent away with a flea in my ear.'

Si vous n\ivez rieii a me dire shrieked the
invisible songstress ; '' pourquoi venir autres de
moi f '

Oh, you damned old screech-owl j ' muttered
Hugh ; and with that profane and improper
apostrophe he turned on his heel, and
sought a more sequestered place for meditation.

After a time, two dark fio-ures came striding
down the drive, talking and laughing ; and one
of them called out, • Hullo ! here's Colonel
Kenyon ; I thought he wouldn't be able to
stand those delightful people much longer. Are
you inclined for a walk this fine night. Colonel
Kenyon? I'm going to see Walter home.'

When we are young, it flatters us to be
asked to join our elders, but when we have
reached middle age it flatters us a great deal
more if our juniors express a wish for our
company. Little as Hugh was disposed to like
Marescalchi, he yet beo-an to think that there
might be good points about that very self-satisfied
young gentleman, as he walked beside
him across the long stretches of moonlit grass.
Walter he did like. Walter was a youth after
his own heart ; a youth of thews and sinews,
of fair average intelligence — Colonel Ken von
had no great love for very clever people — of
obvious honesty and sincerity. He was a
sportsman, too, and was deeply interested in
hearing about the pursuit of the big game in
India. It was a thousand pities that such
another had not chanced to be stranded on the
Riviera at the time when Margaret had taken it
into her head to go in for orphans.

Two out of the three men hit it off too-ethel'
excellently well ; and as the third was of so

pliant a character that it came naturally to him
to fall n with any one's and every one's
humour, their conversation did not flag until
they reached the confines of the Broom Leas
paddocks, where, notwithstanding the lateness
of the hour, Miss Brune was leaning over a
fence, waiting for her brother.

Whom have you got with you, Walter ? '
she called out, while they were still under the
shadow of a hedge and she was in the full light
of the moon. ' Has Philip actually exerted
himself to walk all this way with you ? What
condescension ! How did you get on at diner ?
It was awfully heavy, I suppose. Did Colonel
Kenyon turn up ? and what do you think of
him ? '

Colonel Kenyon,' answered Philip, gently
holding Hugh back in the shade, ' turned upas
per arrangement, and he is all that your
fancy painted him.'

Ah, he has been snubbing you ! I knew
that at once by your voice. Come out of the
dark, and tell me all about him. What sort of
a looking person is he ? '

'Well,' answered Philip, 4t's a matter of
opinion. Here he is, so you can form yours
as soon as you like.'

Hugh stepped forward, taking off his hat
and looking a little foolish ; while Nellie murmured,

' I beg your pardon,' and looked rather
foolish too. There was a spice of the monkey
in Philip's composition. He was not ill-natured ;
but he was himself a total stranger to false
shame, and the spectacle of two full-grown
fellow-creatures demeanor themselves towards
one another after the fashion of a couple of shy
children was to him so queer and entertaining a
one that he could seldom deny himself the
pleasure of bringing it about, when a good
opportunity offered. He did not get much
amusement for his pains upon the present
occasion ; for his indiscretion had the effect of
causing Miss Brune to beat a hasty retreat, and
in a very few minutes he and Colonel Kenyon
were wending their way homewards.

what a pretty girl Xellie — or perhaps I
ought to say Miss Brune — has turned out ! ' the
latter remarked.

The prettiest girl in England,' said 
with decision. ' You couldn't judge of
her properly just now ; but when you see herby
daylight, you will understand at once why
the whole county raves about her. She is the
only woman I know who has really dark blue
eyes. Edith is pretty, very pretty ; but she
can't hold a candle to Xellie.'

Upon my word,' cried Hugh, half amused,
half angry at this dispassionate criticism, ' you

are a very lucky fellow. Many a man would
five his ears to be allowed to call two such
charming young ladies by their Christian
names.'

People are always telling me I am a
lucky fellow,' Philip remarked. ' I gave up
protesting against the accusation — for it is a
sort of accusation, you know — long ago. But
only the wearer knows where the shoe pinches.'

Hugh made no rejoinder, for it flashed across
him that there could hardly fail to be a dash of
bitterness in the lot of a waif and stray ; and
so the remainder of the walk was accomplished
in silence. Philip, like many other persons
-who shine in society, was subject to occasional
fits of depression when off the stage. One of
these fits fell upon him now, and Hugh was
quite startled to see how pale and haggard he
looked when he bade him good-night in the
hall.

Owes money, I expect,' the Colonel thought,
as he went upstairs ; ' I wonder what Margaret
allows him.'

And then this good-natured and foolish
gentleman actually began calculating the amount
that stood to his credit in the hands of Messrs.
Cox and Co. Hugh had felt the pinch of
poverty so often himself that all his sympathies
were stirred by a suspicion of embarrassed

circumstances in others, and he had never in
his life been able to refuse a loan when asked
for one. It was to this unfortunate weakness
that he owed the loss of more than one old
friend.

VOL. I. N

CHAPTER YIIL

COOMASSIE VILLA.

Colonel Kenyon was not called upon to reduce
his balance ; nor, so far as he could judge, had
Ills surmise regarding Marescalchi been a correct
one. The heaviness which had oppressed that
lively youth endured but for a night, and his
troubles — if indeed he had any — exercised no
visible influence upon his spirits in the morning.
He appeared to great advantage at breakfast,
was loquacious and amusing, without being
malicious, and exerted himself very creditably to
help out Mrs. Stanniforth in the thankless task
of entertaining a set of guests who showed no
capacity for entertaining themselves. In answer
to certain interrogatories,. Hugh was able
honestly to assure Margaret that he thought
her adopted son a great social success.

There is not one young man in a hundred,'
colonel Kenyon declared, ' who could make the
best of an awkward position as he does.'

How an awkward position ? ' Margaret
asked.

AVell, it is awkward, you know ; it can't be
otherwise. He is obliged, in a way, to do the
duties of master of the house, and yet he is not
the master of the house. If he were really
your son, for instance, he would take old Lady
What's-her-name in to dinner ; he would sit
opposite to you J in the place which Mrs. "bennington
'

I bought an oval table on purpose to avoid
that difficulty,' interrupted Margaret.

Hugh smiled. ' You saw that it existed,
then. I say he comes out of it uncommonly
well. He doesn't assert himself too much, and
he doesn't keep ostentatiously in the background.
He looks the situation in the face, in
short, and accepts it for what it is, as a sensible
fellow and a gentleman should. At least, so it
seems to me.' Considering that Colonel Kenyon
was speaking of one whom he disliked, this was
very handsome; but Margaret scarcely noticed
the encomium.

^ Do you think he feels it?' she asked
eagerly; 'do you think it distresses him?'

I can't tell. You ought to be a better
judge of that than I. I know I should feel it,
if I were in his shoes; and from one point of
view I think it ATOuld be a pity if he didn't.
He seems to lead a jolly life and enjoy it — small
blame to him ! But he will be a happier man

N 'A

when he has a profession of his own to work at,
and rooms of his own to live in. I should impress
that upon him, were I you.'

Margaret sighed, and answered rather irrelevantly,
' I wish all these people would go away ;
it is so much pleasant when we are alone.'

In a few days' time she had her wish. The
Flint shires were the first to go ; and the remainder
of the party with great promptitude
and unanimity followed their leader. Long-bourne,
if the truth must be told, was not quite
the pleasantness house in England to stay at, nor
was Margaret very successful as a hostess. To
people who were poor, or sick, or in trouble, she
was the kindest, the most unselfish, and the
most unwearying of friends; but she had not
the gift of small-talk, she could not always remember
what to say and what to leave unsaid,
and she was unable to feign an interest where
she felt none. And of these deficiencies she
was fully conscious.

If it were not for Philip,' she said, as the
last carriage drove away from the door, ' I
should never succeed in inducing anyone to
come down here, and my mother and Edith
would live in a howling wilderness.'

Really, Margaret dear, that is a poor compliment
to us,' cried Mrs. Winningtoii, who
unfortunately overheard this remark. ' I hope

some of our friends find our society a sufficient
attraction.'

You've put your foot in it again as usual,
Meg,' whispered Philip. 'When is the next
batch due ? '

Oh, not for a long time, I hope,' she answered
in the same subdued voice. ' Even Tom
Stanniforth writes to say that he is obliged to
postpone his visit for a fortnight ; and I don't
know of any one else who is expected.'

Then,' exclaimed Philip aloud, ' let's be
happy for a fortnight ! '

And for a fortnight, or the best part of it,
most of them were happy. In the absence of
outsiders, the denizens of Longbourne and
Broom Leas were habitually together morning,
noon, and night. The younger people had been
brought up as brothers and sisters ; and although,
for obvious reasons, it had been found
impossible to maintain this action of relationship
beyond a certain epoch in their lives, the outward
forms and privileges pertaining thereto
had not been suffered to fall altogether into
disuse. If Philip happened to find himself at
Broom Leas towards one o'clock, he took his
place at the luncheon-table as a matter of
course, and without anything being said
upon the subject ; and neither Walter nor
Xellie thought it necessary to wait for an invitation

before arranging to dine at Longbourne.
To Hugh Kenyon the easy intimacy of this
quiet life was like the realisation of a dream;
and for ten days at least it seemed to him that
he had reached the green oasis which had been
ever before his eyes throughout those toilsome
years spent upon the Indian plains. English
oaks made a grateful shade for him ; soft English
clouds floated low overhead, tempering the
heat of the summer sun ; English birds twittered
for him on dewy mornings ; and although the
blithe tinkling of the mower's scythe, like the
thumping of the flails on the threshing-floor,
had passed away during his time of exile, never
to be heard any more, there was still an abundance
of pleasant rural sights and sounds to
refresh the heart of a returned wanderer. If
Ken' on was not happy, he ought to have been
so. He and Margaret had many a long talk
together, while the young folks played lawn-tennis
or made excursions on horseback ; old
friends came up from Crayminster to chat over
old times ; the weather was glorious ; and, best
of all, Mrs. Winnington was laid up with the
gout.

The poor lady had become subject of late
years to periodical visits from that enemy of the
human race, and suffered during their continuance
as much as her best friends could have

wished her to do. Stern Mrs. Prosser, who was
cut out by nature for a Methodist, but whom
the tendencies of the age had converted into an
ardent disciple of Mr. Langley, attributed the
present attack to an unholy indulgence in
animal food on Fridays ; the sufferer herself
made her exertions in the entertainment of her
daughter's guests responsible for it ; but, whatever
its cause, it is to be feared that no one,
except Margaret, offered up prayers for its
speedy termination. It came to an end, after
having run its course, without any extraneous
aid of that kind ; and with it came an end of all
harmless a'aietv and laughter. With Mrs. Winnington
stretched upon the drawing-room sofa
in a quilted satin dressing-gown and a shocking
bad temper, no one had the heart or the courage
to be merry : even Philip eras upon his best
behaviour, talked little, and refrained from any
irritating speeches. He obtained small thanks
for his forbearance.

That young man has either get into some
mischief, or he is meditating some,' Mrs. Winnington
took occasion to whisper impressively
to Hugh. ' I always know that anything like
self-effacement on his part bodes no good for
poor Margaret's peace.'

And when, in the course of the day, Philip
announced casually that he was going away fora

week, the old lady threw a triumphant glance
at her confidant, as who should say, ^ Didn't I
tell you so ? '

Why, where are you off to?' asked Hugh
innocently.

I think,' said Philip in deliberate accents,
that we must be going to have a change
of weather. The glass has been falling all
day.'

The questioner felt very much snubbed and
very naturally angry. It is not pleasant to beset
down by a man of half your age, and it is still
less pleasant to feel that the implied rebuke is
merited. Of course one has no business to put
direct questions, and Hugh remembered that
Margaret had said something to him about
letting young men go their own way. Still,
distinctions ought to be drawn between intentional
and inadvertent solecisms, and Hugh said
to himself in his wrath that this impertinent
puppy might go to the devil for anything he
cared. Nothing more was said upon the subject
at the time ; but after dinner Mrs. Winnington,
undeterred by the fate of her predecessor, chose
to repeat the same query in a loud and authoritative
voice; and she, at all events, was rewarded
by an answer.

I have received her Majesty's command,'
said Philip sweetly, ' to attend her at Balmoral.

I believe there is a probability of my being
asked to form a fresh administration.'

Upon this, Walter, who was easily moved to
laughter, broke out into a tremendous guffaw,
which was followed by a deep and awful silence.
Margaret began to talk very quickly, and soon
afterwards Mrs. Winnington, who had closed
her eyes, not deigning to make any rejoinder,
was assisted off to bed by her maid.

Later in the evening, when the three men of
the party were sitting in the smoking-room,
Philip condescended to give a sort of reason for
his departure, unasked. ' Mrs. Winnington and
I are like buckets in a well,' he said ; ' when one
comes into sight away goes the other. Perhaps
the dear old creature may have started off on a
round of visits before I come back. The fact is
that I promised to go and stay with some people
about this time.'

Then why the dickens couldn't you say so ? '
blurted out Walter. ' What's the use of making
mysteries ? '

Philip shrugged his shoulders. ' My dear
fellow, I don't make mysteries ; but it isn't always
convenient to tell everybody where one
has been and where one is going. If you answer
in one case you must answer in all. Suppose
I were to ask you what you and Edith
were doing, when you marched off to the farmyard

this afternoon, and left us without a vf ord
of explanation ? I don't want to know ; but
suppose I had the indiscretion to ask ? '

'Well, I should tell you the truth. We
were seeing the pigs fed. Xow then ! '

Ah, I give in. I admit the superiority of
your method, and in future I shall always try to
be equally candid. So you went to see the pigs
fed, did you? And tomorrow I am going to
see the Smiths, or the Brov^ais, or the Robinson.
Strictly true ; and at the same time
conveniently vague.' On the following morning,
accordingly, Philip quitted Longbourne for
some destination unknown, leaving behind him
one trustful heart and several suspicious ones.
Margaret made a rather lame apology to Hugh
on his behalf.

Philip is a little reticent sometimes ; circumstances
have made him so. He does not
always tell even me what his plans are and how
he spends his time ; and I think it so much
better not to force anyone's confidence. I know
he will always come to me when he is in
trouble.'

I dare say he will,' answered Hugh drily.
And immediately afterwards, fearing that he
had said a terribly severe thing, he added, ' No
one likes to be cross-examined. I don't like it
myself I remember how strict my poor old

father used to be, and of course I concealed
things from him. As for Philip, he will grow
out of the habit of thinking his proceedings of
such supreme importance to the world. Probably
he is no worse employed now than in
rehearsing for play-acting at some country
house in the next county.'

At the moment when this generous conjecture
was uttered, the subject of it was hailing a
hansom at the Charing Cross station ; and if the
adih'ess which he gave to the cabman had been
heard at Longbourne, it might have occasioned
some misgiving's there. ' Coomassie Villa,
Wolsey Road, West Crompton ' — it certainly
had not an aristocratic, nor even a respectable
ring, and it would have been difficult to give a
satisfactory explanation of ]mr. Marescalchi's
presence in such quarters in the month of
August.

Nobody, however, did hear it, except the
cabman, and he didn't know where Wolsey
Road was, and had to be guided thither by the
umbrella of his fare. Coomassie Villa, when
reached, proved to be a small detached house,
situated in the very last street in London, and
looking as if it had been built about the day
before yesterday. To right and left of it were
other dwellings of a similar size, but of great
diversity of architecture, all surpassingly

hideous and most as yet untenanted ; the road
which led to it was full of ruts and deep holes,
and its windows looked upon a waste of 
and smoking; brick-fields.

Philip caught up his portmanteau brisk',
dismissed the hansom, and let himself in with a
latch-key. No servant appeared to relieve him
of his load, nor was there a sign of life about
the place until he had shut the hall-door behind
him with a bang. Then there came a sudden
rushing and pattering sound from overhead, and
an exceedingly pretty young woman flew down
the narrow staircase, dragging her long silken
skirts after her, and, throwing her arms round
his neck, cried, ^ Oh, Philip, how late you are !
I had almost given you up.'

Philip kissed her, held her away from him
at arm's length, and inspected her from head to
foot, laughing softly to himself. She was a
delicate, fragile little creature, with pink and
white cheeks, and an abundance of fair hair
arranged in little curls all over her head. She
was absurdly over-dressed, and was evidently
conscious of being so ; for she said, in a deprecating,
half-frightened voice, ' I thought, as you
was coming, I might make myself smart, PhiUp,
just for once. I did so long to put on this
beautiful gown ; but it seemed a shame to be
taking the wear out of it when there was no one

but Sarah and cook to see me.' She passed her
hands over her well-fitting body and stroked her
olive-green skirt lovingly. * Exquisite ! — ain't
it? ' cried she, with childish glee.

It is indeed,' Philip answered gravely.
So I am late, am I? You see, I have had to
drive from Dan to Beersheba. Upon my word,
Fan, I think I shall have to move you out of
this into some place within the limits of civilisation.
I don't believe there would be any risk
about it, and it would be a great deal more
convenient.'

They were now sitting in a tiny drawing-room,
which was furnished with more luxury
and in better taste than mio-ht have been
expected from the outward appearance of the
villa.

Oh, I hope you won't ! ' cried the little
woman. ' That is, you do wdiat you think best,
dear; what pleases you will please me; but Td
rather be here than in a regular London street.
I like the view, you see ; it sort of puts me in
mind of the country.'

Philip looked out at the dreary cabbage -
gardens, the black, broken fences, and the
brick-fields all simmering in a hot haze. ' Poor
little Fan ! ' he said compassionately ; ' it's a
horrid shame to keep you mewed up here all
the summer ; but it can't be helped. Another

year we shall be able to manage better, I
hope.'

^ Oh, I don't mind it ! ' she answered cheerfully.
' I am very 'happy — happy, I mean — here ;
and now that you've come, dear, I wouldn't
change places with the Queen on her throne.
There's days when it's a little lonesome ; but
cook has given me a cat to keep me company,
and what with my lessons and the planner and
the 'ouse — Housekeeping I get through the days
wonderfully. Now don't you fret about me,
Philip dear ; please don't fret — for my sake.'

Well, if you put it upon that ground — I
won't,' answered Philip, who sometimes indulged
in a little mild sarcasm at his own
expense, and found the sensation a rather refreshing
and bracing one. ' There are undeniable
advantages in living in this back-of-beyond sort
of place, apart from its charmingly rural situation.
Also I haven't paid for the furniture yet ;
and the upholsterer might get nervous if he found
us flitting so soon. You don't stay indoors too
much, I hope ? '

Not now. At first I used to be afraid of
meeting people ; but I've got over that ; and now
Sarah and me go out every evening. Oh, and
who do you think I came across in Kensington
Gardens last week? — nearly ran into his arms.
Why, Salford. It did give me such a start ! '

Salford ! ' cried Philip, with a rather alarmed
face ; ' I thought he was in Norway. Did he
recognise you ? '

Xot he ; he didn't have the chance. I put
down my parasol, so as to hide my face, and
he passed almost as close to me as you are,
walking with another gentleman. I heard him
say something about '' beastly country — half
starved — couldn't have stood it another week ; "
and then he bean using: awful lan<]:uao[e, like he
always used to, you know, and when T peeped
out he was gone. I'd have given anything to
have spoke to him — just for the sake of old
times.'

My dear Fanny, you must never think of
doing anything of that kind. Good heavens !
it might be the ruin of us.'

Oh, Philip ! of course I wouldn't have done
it ; I should never disobey you. I didn't really
care to talk to him either — not for himself.
Don't you knov/ how I always used to tell you
I couldn't a-bear him ? '

Bear him, Fan. Xo ; I remember he wasn't
a favourite of yours ; though I believe he thought
you were desperately smitten with him. Did I
tell you that all Oxford gave him the credit of
eloping with you ? '

Him, indeed ! ' cried Fanny, with a toss of
her head ; ' well, Pm sure ! They're very clever

people at Oxford, but they don't know so 'much
as they think. Why, I'd no more have looked
at him! — not if he'd offered to make me his
Marchioness. And that's what he'd never have
done.'

Not such a fool, eh ? Fortunately or unfortunately
— which is it, do you think? — some
other men are less prudent said Philip, looking
at her and laughing.

Mrs. Marescalchi, who had been holding up
her left hand, the better to admire the wedding-ring
which adorned it, flushed and then turned
pale. ' Ah, my dear,' she sighed, ' the day will
come when you'll repent of all your goodness tome.
Maybe you're repenting of it just a little
bit already.'

Maybe he was. He did not like to acknowledge
himself inferior in worldly wisdom to Lord
Salford, a man whom he utterly despised; and
as to the abstract wisdom of marrying a young
woman from a pastry-cook's shop there could
hardly be two opinions. He was not, and never
had been, very deeply in love with poor little
Fanny ; but he had married because he had
fancied himself so, because he hated to deny
himself anything that he had set his heart upon,
and because, if the truth must be told, she
would not have consented to occupy Coomassie
Yilla upon any other terms. When he thought

seriously of the step that he had taken, and of
its inevitable consequences, he felt very uncomfortable
: therefore he thought of it as seldom as
possible.

You little goose ! ' he said ; ' I don't repent
of anything.'

She went on, without heeding him : * But
when that day does come, you'll remember —
won't you ? — that it wasn't all my fault. You'll
remember what a long time I held out against
you, and that I only gave in at last because I
loved you so. I'm afraid I shall never get to
be like a lady — not a real lady. I do my lessons
every day, as you told me ; and when I'm alone
I think I can behave — well, behave then — as nice
as any of them ; but if you was to introduce me
to Mrs. Stanniforth tomorrow I should be that
flustered — oh, dear ! You won't let any of your
people know that we're married for a long time;
will you, dear? '

Philip unhesitatingly promised that he would
not. He told Fanny that she was a dear little
sensible thing, and that there was not one
woman in a thousand who would have seen the
necessity for concealment, and submitted to it
as cheerfully as she had done. At this commendation
Fanny brightened up ; her pretty
face broke out into smiles and dimples, and the

VOL. I. •

tears which had been gathering in her eyes
vanished. She did not mind concealment one
bit, she declared. People might stare and
gossip as much as they liked — and to be sure
cook was very impertinent at times — but what
did she care ? Let them chatter. ' You see
she explained, ' it isn't with me as it might be
with other girls. I've neither kite nor kin,
except Aunt Keziah ; and Aunt Keziah knows
all about it, and saw us married with her own
eyes. Bless you ! I'm as happy as the day is
long. I don't want for anything, unless it's to
see you a little oftener, Philip.'

The vehemence of these protestations might
have led some persons to suspect that the
speaker was not quite as indifferent to the
opinion of the world as she professed to be ;
but Philip did not appear to doubt her sincerity'.
He patted her on the head, praised her good
sense again, and assured her that her patience
would have its reward all in good time. Then,
having had enough of serious conversation, he
sat down at the piano and began singing
snatches of songs from the comic operas of the
day, improvising an accompaniment for himself
as he went on, while his wife listened in adoring
admiration.

Philip had a remarkably sweet tenor voice,
which he managed not unskilfully. It was one

of the many gifts which he possessed, and
which he had cultivated for a time and then
wearied of ; for there was no pertinacity in his
nature, and of all things in the world he
abhorred drudgery the most. He was fond of
music, however, and would sing in a desultory
sort of way for an hour at a time, when he had
no more amusing occupation at hand. The
round, liquid notes filled the little house, and
floated out through the open window into the
sultry atmosphere beyond, causing the few
passers-by to pause and listen, and falling gratefully
upon the ears of Fanny's music-master, who
reached the doorstep in time to hear Catalina
hell from beginning: to end.

God bless my soul, sir ! ' cried the goodman,
bursting into the room with scant ceremony,
' what a sad pity it is that you have not
your daily bread to earn ! There are thousands
a year in that voice of yours, Mr. Marescalchi,
if you only knew it.'

Philip laughed, and said he believed that his
voice was destined to be utilised in other and
less attractive quarters than the opera-house;
and then, as he possessed an ear as well as a
voice, and did not care about hearing poor
Fanny worry her way through the ' Harmonious
Blacksmith,' he took his hat, and strolled out



into the hideous wilderness that surrounded his
wife's dwelling.

The hopeless ugliness, the solitude, the heat
and the bad smells of that shabby-genteel suburb
did not depress his spirits. Philip was one of
those happy people who, while loving all beautiful
things, can do very well without them fora
time ; and, after all, he didn't live at Coomassie
Villa. He enjoyed his brief periods of residence
there chiefly because they came in some sort
under the head of forbidden pleasures. There
was something that tickled his fancy, too, in the
notion of being a married man and the owner of
such a queer establishment ; and he contemplated
the half-finished houses, the dirty children playing;
in the middle of the road, and the clothes
hanging out to dry in the back-yards with an
amused smile, as part and parcel of the humours
of the situation. He was in high good humour,
lounging hither and thither in the midst of all
that unsightliness and squalor ; and ever as he
walked, the music-master's hasty exclamation
kept measure with his steps in a pleasant,
monotonous cadence of ' Thousands a year ! —
thousands a year ! ' ' Why not ? ' Philip cried
aloud, at last ; and echo returned no answer to
this query.

That day was an altogether delightful one
for Mrs. Marescalchi. She was informed that,

subject to certain prudential restrictions, she
might choose for herself in what way she would
spend the latter half of it ; and, after due
consideration, she decided for a row on the
river, dinner at the Criterion, and a visit to the
Promenade Concert at Covent Garden to finish
up with. At this season of the year such a
programme did not seem too risky to be sanctioned,
and in pursuance of it the young couple
found themselves, about an hour before sunset,
drifting lazily down stream towards Hammersmith.


Fan,' said Philip suddenly, ' I have hit upon
an entirely new scheme of life.'

Have you, dear? ' responded Fanny, straightening
herself up, and ceasing to dabble her
fingers in the water ; for the tone of her lord
and master's voice appeared to call for an
attitude of respect and attention.

I have always thought,' Philip said gravely,
that the finger of Fate pointed me rather
towards spangles and tights than towards the
woolsack. I am sure you will agree with me in
thinking that I might easily become Lord
Chancellor, if I were not above being at the
trouble of earning that distinction

Fanny signified that she felt no doubt
whatever as to that.

The Lord Chancellor gets 10,000/. a year,

which is very pretty pay as times go ; but then
one has to pass through a deuce of a lot of
bother and worry, and to grow an ugly old man,
before one has a chance of drawing the salary.
All things considered, I am not sure that it
would not be preferable to put up with a smaller
income — say a couple of thousand a year, or so
and begin to earn it, while one is in the prime
of one's youth and beauty, as a primo tenore at
the Opera.'

Fanny clapped her hands in delight. ' Oh,
Philip, do you really mean it ? How glorious !
But I didn't know gentlemen ever went upon
the stage.'

In these enlightened days, my dear Fanny,
a gentleman is allowed to exercise any trade
that brings in a sufficient amount of money. I
think I'll go and look up old Steinberger tomorrow
and hear what he says. Supposing that
he reports favourably — which he very likely
won't do, mind you — I shall be much inclined
to brave the home authorities, and go in for an
independent career. There's a charm about
independence — at least, I imagine that there is ;
for I have no personal experience to guide mein
speaking upon the point. In the sense of
freedom from supervision, it might be attainable
pretty early in the business : freedom from
pecuniary obligations would have to be postponed

until a little later. Oh, my dear Fan,
what an unmitigated rascal you have got for a
husband ! '

Fanny stared, shook her pretty head in bewilderment,
and exclaimed, ' Why, whatever do
you mean ? '

It Vr^ould take rather too long to explain.
How would you like to go to Italy for a couple
of years ? '

'Me? Go to Italy? Oh, laws!'

Fanny, you shock me. You really should
try to cure yourself of indulging in low ejaculations.
You may say "Oh, lor'I " when you
want to intimate delight and surprise ; I heard
a duchess use the expression the other day, so it
must be all right ; but you mustn't say " Oh,
laws ! " — it's vulgar. Yes ; I suppose, if I do
go in for this business, it will be a case of Italy
to begin with. There is no reason why you
shouldn't complete your education there, and
we should certainly be able to see much more
of one another in a foreign land than we can here.'

That clinched the matter, so far as Mrs.
Marescalchi was concerned. Visions of palms
and orange-groves, of marble palaces and shady
retreats, made for happy lovers, began forthwith
to present themselves to her excited imagination.
She could hardly enjoy the unwonted
dissipation of the evening for thinking of it all;

and Philip was very good-natured in helping
out her crude dreams with sundry pretty fancy
sketches of their future life. No one knew
better than he did how unlikely it was that
fancy would in this instance prove the forerunner
of fact; but no one had a clearer conviction
than he of the harmlessness of fancy
and the wisdom of indulging in it, upon occasion.
It did not affect the future one way or the
other, and it made the present agreeable.
Philip's philosophy was of that practical kind
which concerns itself chiefly with the present.

Everybody who is at all in the musical world
knows Herr Steinberger; and so, for the matter
of that, do a few thousands of people who are
not. Years ago he established his reputation
by introducing to the Parisian stage a young
singer whose fame is now world-wide. Shortly
after this lucky hit, he took up his residence in
London, where he soon became the singing-master
par excellence of society, and where he is
to be seen most nights during the season, playing
raging accompaniments to the drawing-room
performances of amateurs of both sexes. He is
a man of much energy, perseverance, and goodwill;
his successes have been many; and as he
charges the highest permissible price for his
lessons, and is said to be in the habit of addressing
his pupils with the most cruel frankness,

his popularity is unbounded, and during nine
months at least out of the year he is as hard-worked
and as well paid for his work as any
toiler within the four seas.

Philip, who had a slight acquaintance with
Herr Steinberger, from having met him here
and there at theatrical and operatic entertainments,
went to call upon him on the morning
after his arrival in London, and found him in
the act of packing up in preparation for a well-earned
holiday. Steinberojer, like a man of
business as he was, wasted no time in preliminaries,
and expressed no surprise at his
visitor's choice of a profession, but proceeded to
put him through his paces. His verdict was not
particularly encouraging.

Hah ! very pretty — very good for a beetle
concert in a beetle room ; but you know not how
to sing at all — oh, not at all, not at all ! You
must forget all what you have learnt; that is the
first thing. How old are you? '

Twenty-four,' said Philip.

So ! There is no great hurry, then. Come
to me again in the autumn, if you do not change
your mind meanwhile. You have a voice; but
whether it is worth anything — that is more than
I, or anyone else, can tell you yet. Work,
work, work ; and in two years', three years'
time — perhaps — we shall see.'

And before Philip could press the oracle for
any more definite response he was gently
pushed out of the room.

Fanny, who had been pacing up and down
the street outside during this interview, was
a little disappointed when she heard the upshot
of it.

^ I expect he's a silly sort of old man, after
all she said.

But Philip reassured her. ' Steinberger's
always like that : it's his way. He doesn't
choose to let his praise be easily earned; and
quite right too : nobody cares for a cheap
article. If he hadn't thought pretty well of my
chances, he wouldn't have told me to come
back.'

Philip had taken it strongly into his head
that he would like to become a second Mario;
and that, according to the Italian proverb, was
the surest means he could have adopted towards
attaining his end. It had, at all events,
the effect of making him very cheerful and
sanguine for the time ; for when he wanted a
thing very much, he always made up his mind
that he was sure to get it, hating disappointment,
and being unable to bring himself to
the contemplation of so disagreeable an eventuality.


Prophesying smooth things, and enjoying

the glories of success in advance, lie strolled
along the shady side of Piccadilly, while the
happy Fanny hung upon his words; — which thing
he would hardly have dared to do, even at that
advanced season of the year, had he had all his
wits about him. And before very long his neglect
of ordinary precautions was brought home
to him in a way which he did not like ; for as
the couple turned into the Green Park, who
should come striding out, and almost run up
against them, but Colonel Kenyon?

The encounter was over, and Colonel
Kenyon round the corner and out of sight in an
instant ; and Philip, who would have given a
great deal to know whether the recognition had
been mutual or not, continued his walk in a
state of painful uncertainty. He comforted
himself by reflecting that the old fellow was just
that sort of duffer who would pull up and shake
hands with a friend, no matter under what
circumstances he might chance to meet him ; but
for all that, he inwardly cursed his own thoughtlessness,
and resolved that no one should ever
meet him in the streets of London with Fanny
again.

Two days afterwards he went down to stay
with some friends in Gloucestershire, whence he
immediately despatched a letter to Margaret,
giving her a very entertaining description of a

ball at which he had not been present, and
stating that he had been so busy with rehearsals
ever since his arrival that he really-had
not been able to find a minute for writing
before.

CHAPTER IX.

MISS brune's partner.

The great fire which consumed two-thirds of
the Duke of Retford's historic mansion in Yorkshire,
reducing to ashes about a quarter of a
mile of indifferent pictures, together with much
ancient and variable furniture and many
curiosities and heirlooms impossible to replace,
was an event deeply deplored by his Grace, still
more deeply deplored by the insurance offices,
and declared by the newspapers to be nothingness
than a public calamity. Still, as is the case
with most calamities, public and private, there
were not a few people who found their profit in
it; and among these were persons of all ranks
dwelling round about Crayminster. For, although
the work of reconstruction was set on
foot with all the speed which a magnate of the
Duke of Retford's resources could command, it
had barely been in full swing for two years, and
was consequently very far indeed from approaching
completion, when the young Marquis

of Crab ridge came of age ; and thus it became
necessary that the festivities which ought to
have gladdened the north of England upon that
occasion should be held at Craybridge Hall, a
residence little liked and seldom visited by the
family. The festivities in question were, it
was rumoured, to be celebrated upon a scale
unprecedented in the annals of the county.
They were to last through the best part of a
week; they were to be marked not only by the
ordinary features of triumphal arches, oxen
roasted whole, bonfires, fireworks, and the like,
but by a revival of sundry old English sports,
intermingled with such modern ones as cricket,
polo, and lawn-tennis, and they were to include
a ball which a prince of the blood royal had
promised to grace with his presence.

All this enforced hospitality would have
possessed little interest for our friends at Broom
Leas — for Craybridge Hall was situated some
fifteen miles away from them, and its inmates
were not upon their visiting-list — had not the
heir-apparent, who had been Walter's fag at
Eton, happened to meet his old schoolfellow at a
cricket-match on the Crayminster ground, and
taken that opportunity for renewing acquaintance
with him. This chance encounter had led
to an introduction of both Walter and his sister
to the Duchess, who had been very civil and

friendly; and for some days afterwards Nellie
had cherished a faint hope of being invited to
the great ball. Nothing, however, came of it;
and when Walter was asked to take part in the
cricket-match, and to dine and sleep at Cray-bridge
afterwards, she ceased to think about the
matter, perceiving that her dream of dancing in
the same room with royalty was not to be
fulfilled upon that occasion. All the greater,
therefore, was her delight when, at the eleventh
hour. Lord Craybridge rode over to Broom
Leas bearing a hastily-written, but kindly, note
from his mother, in which Miss Brune was
begged, if she would pardon the informality of
the invitation, to stay at the Hall, not only for
the night of the ball, but for the entire week.
Every hole and corner in the house had had its
occupant allotted to it weeks before, the young
man explained; it was only that morning that
one of the invited guests had sent an apology,
and had left free the room which it was hoped
that Miss Brune would consent to use. His
mother would have called herself; only the truth
was that she was in such a state of fuss and
flurry that she hardly knew whether she was
standing on her head or her heels.

I don't suppose there is such another
abominable house in England. Nothing could
make it habitable ; and we have got to cram at

least twenty more people into it than it will
hold. The whole business will be acute misery
for us. But I dare say it won't be bad fun for
the lookers-on, and we'll do the best we can to
amuse you, Miss Brune, if you'll come.'

Miss Brune required no persuasive speeches.
She answered, with the frankness which washer
habit, ' Thank you ; I should like of all
things to go ; but I am afraid I mustn't give an
answer until I have seen my father. Would it
do if I wrote by to-night's post? '

Lord Craybridge intimated that a demand
for instant decision had not formed part of his
instructions; and after apologising once more,
and declaring; that he should await the arrival
of the post-bag the next morning with the
greatest anxiety, took his leave.

Undoubtedly you must go,' said Mr. Brune,
when his sanction was requested later in the
day. 'wye will forgive the Duchess's want of
ceremony, because much must be pardoned to
duchesses. Moreover, Nell, it is quite clear tome
that you are upon the threshold of a great
opportunity. Only play your cards skilfully,
and who knows whether you may not become a
duchess yourself one of these days? I am
grieved that you should not have had the
presence of mind to press Lord Craybridge to
stay to luncheon.'

That boy ! ' cried Xellie. with line disdain ;
why, he must be three years younger than
Walter, at least. Besides, I would rather die
than marry a man above me in rank. Fancy
being like Lady Travers, who doesn't dare to
ask her own relations into her own house ! If I
thought anyone could suspect me of such pitiful
designs. I wouldn't go to Cambridge at all.'

Perhaps nobody will suspect you,' Mr.
Brune answered gravely; 'indeed, there seems
to be a very good chance that nobody will.
Pray don't refuse this invitation hastily. Consider
what you owe to your family ; consider
what will be the position of your poor father if
there is another bad harvest, and the hops turnout
a failure again ; and if that won't move you,
picture to yourself the impotent wrath of Mrs.
AYinning^ton when she hears that you have ixone
to stay a whole week with a duchess.'

It must be acknowledged that this last consideration
Avould have had some weight with
Nellie, even if her mind had not already been
made up ; for she had had many things to bear
from Mrs. Winnington in the way of patronage
and criticism, and hers was not a meek nature.
But she had more than a sufficiency of other
motives, less open to exception, to influence her
decision ; and she went to bed that night with a
heart so full of joyous anticipation that there

VOL. I. p

was no room in it for malice or uncharitableness.


Nellie Brune was fortunate enough and unsophisticated
enough to possess the faculty of
enjoyment to its fullest extent. Her life had
l3een so healthy and natural a one, she had
dwelt among such simple and honest people,
that she had learnt nothing of that wearisome
habit of introspection which is the curse of the
present generation, and enjoyed the good things
of this world without bothering herself to
analyse her emotions. Margaret's care, and
perhaps also a share of hereditary good breeding,
had preserved her from growing up into a
hoyden ; but at the age of eighteen she much
resembled Horace's Lyre —

Quae, yeliit laths equal tria campus
Audit exsultim.

High spirits and the customs of a large family
may have made her a little indiscreet at times, a
little too prompt in forming judgments, and rash
in giving utterance to them ; but these are faults
which time seldom fails to soften down, and it is
only sour-tempered people who would quarrel
with them, when accompanied by all the physical
and mental charms of youth.

Nellie achieved a signal success at Cray-bridge
Hall, where she speedily became a universal
favourite. Happily for her comfort, the

young heir did not fall in love with her, his
budding affections being engaged elsewhere at
that tune ; but both he and his mother showed
her every possible kindness and attention, and
she rewarded them, on the last day, by declaring
that she had never spent such a happy week
before in her life.

It has all gone off so splendidly, hasn't it ? '
she said.

The Duchess smiled, and said, ' I am very
glad you think so.'

Oh ! everybody must think so ; there hasn't
been a single failure. The cricket might have
been better certainly ; but that was partly the
fault of the ground. Xow there is only the ball
to-night, and then there will be an end of
everything. I should like to have it all over
a^^ain from the beginnings.'

I should not,' said the Duchess, laughing.
I am glad, for your sake, that there is still the
ball to look forward to ; but I shall be very
thankful, for my own, when I can look back upon
it. Out of all the host of people who have been
asked, I believe scarcely a dozen have refused.
You must not expect to be able to dance.'

'Oh! we shall manage,' answered JS^ellie,
confidently. ' I mean to dance all night. That
is, if I get partners enough,' she added, as a
modest afterthought.

p 2

If a sufficient supply of partners was all that
was required, Miss Brune ran no risk of having
a moment's repose until after sunrise. She
made her appearance in the ball-room rather
late, and was at once besieged by a multitude of
acquaintances, old and new, insomuch that she
speedily got out of her reckoning, and had engaged
herself two or three times over for every
dance upon the programme before she knew
where she was. She was, in truth, a little
dazzled by the brilliancy of the scene around
her. Notwithstanding the Duchess's disparaging
criticism of it, the picture-gallery, which had
been made to do duty for a ball-room, was
spacious enough to answer the required purpose,
and with its beautiful old crystal chandeliers, its
banks of hothouse plants, and its miniature
fountains playing in every recess, was in Nellie's
eyes something closely approaching an earthly
paradise. Nearly the whole of the expected
company was assembled ; for the invitations
had been issued ' to have the honour of meeting
their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess
of Middlesex,' and punctuality was consequently
indispensable. All the diamonds of two counties
were sparkling and twinkling upon the persons
of their fortunate owners; and never before had
Miss Brune been privileged to gaze upon so
varied a collection of magnificent toilettes.

Taking stock of these, one by one, she presently
became aware of Mrs. Winnington and Edith,
whom she had not expected to meet, and whose
surprise at the encounter was evidently not less
than her own.

Oh ! how do you do? I did not know you
were to be here,' said the former, not very
graciously. • AYho brought you ? '

1 have been staying here for a few days,'
Xellie answered, with a demure enjoyment of
her triumph ; and Walter, who was standing
by, added explanatorily: —

The Duchess was good-natured enough to
ask Nell over for the week.'

Oh, indeed ! ' said Mrs. Winnins^ton, looking
very black. ' Your father did not mention
it when I saw him yesterday. Rather odd not
to have invited him too, was it not V She was
scrutinising Nellie from head to foot through her
eye-glasses, and now asked abruptly, ' Is that
the dress Margaret save you ? '

Yes ; is it not lovely ? '

It fits atrociously in the back,' Mrs. Winnington
was beginning ; but this well-meant
shot missed fire, for the opening words were
droTvmed in the crash of the orchestra striking
up ' God save the Queen,' and all eyes were
instantly turned towards the doorway, through
which a procession of august personages was

seen approaching. The Duke of Middlesex, who
had a country-house in the neighbourhood, had
arrived within five minutes of his time, and was
leading his hostess up the room, followed by
some German Serenities and a galaxy of minor
stars whom he had brought with him.

By the time that Xellie had recovered to
some extent from the excitement into which she
had been thrown by the passing of this little
pageant, the throng had effectually separated her
from her amiable old friend, and she had been
taken charge of by her first partner, a stranger
whose name she had failed to catch. He seemed
to be a good deal amused by the girl's unconventional
talk and artless admiration of the bigwigs
at the other end of the room.

'Is this your first ball, Miss Brune ?' he
asked, smiling.

Oh, dear no ! ' answered Xellie, much offended.
' What put that into your head ?'

I beg your pardon, I'm sure. It is so many
years since I was young myself that I have almost
forgotten what it feels like ; but I know
there was a time when it used to make me very
angry to be taken for less than my age. Nowadays
I often have to complain of exactly the
opposite error; and I assure you it is a great
deal more painful to be set down as an old man
than as a very young ones

Nellie looked up at him. He was a tall man,
with a bright, good-humoured face, a fair moustache,
and closely-cut reddish beard ; his eyes
were clear, and his hair — what little there was
of it — unmixed with grey. Decidedly he was
not old ; but probably he was not far off middle
age. Nellie was upon the point of saying, in a
generous spirit, ' I should put you at about
forty ; ^ but thought better of it. After all,
these delicate subjects were best not meddled
with, and some people, she knew, became bald
early in life.

I have been to plenty of balls before,' she
said, reverting to the original topic ; ' but I never
was at one of this kind until now. Nearly all
the faces are new to me. I am not accustomed
to associating with princes and princesses, either,
as I dare say you are.'

They are very much like the rest of the
world, when you come to know them.*

They may be. But I cannot possibly come
to know them ; so they are not at all like the
rest of the world to me. I shall be talking about
this evening for years to come most likely, and I
want to hear who everybody is. Are there many
celebrities in the room, and do you know them
all ? '

I know a good many of them by sight, at
all events. The great majority of them are relations

or connections of the house — lords and
ladies — celebrities in a certain sense. I don't
think there is anyone present whom I should
call exactly a distinguished person ; but then
I'm a Radical, and my ideas of distinction are
not likely to be the same as yours. That fine-looking
old fellow, with the white hair, is Lord
Aintree, the great racing man. He is immensely
popular on the turf, and he deserves to be so ;
for there isn't a more honourable or straightforward
man in England. The lady whom he
is talking to is Lady Carlton, whom you may have
heard of. She gives a great many big parties in
London, and is supposed to render invaluable
services to the Tory party.'

She looks a very forbidding sort of old
woman,' Nellie remarked.

Do you think so ? Well, perhaps she is a
little hard-featured ; but she is a good old soul,
for all that. I happen to know that she gives
away thousands a year in charity ; and there are
not many people of whom that can be said.'

He went on describing the guests, one after
another, in this way ; and the odd thing was
that, although he told some amusing stories and
had some queer personal characteristics to point
out, he did not make a single ill-natured observation
from beginning' to end.

Why, according to you, they are all delight-fill!

' Nellie exclaimed at last ; ' you haven't a
bad TTord for anybody.'

'Why should I use bad words? Most of
these people have shown me kindness, at one
time or another ; and what is the good of picking
one's neighbours to pieces ? It's a shocking
bad habit. One may just as easily look at a
man's good points as at his ugly ones; and, if
the truth were known, I suspect it would be
found that we are all tarred with much the same
brush.'

One must have likes and dislikes, though.
I hate some people ; and so do you, I suppose.'

Upon my word, I don't think I do. I don't
even hate my own political chief, though he is
always snubbing me, and invariably walks out of
the House when I get upon my legs.'

Are you in Parliament, then ? ' asked Nellie,
with an increased respect for her partner ; ' and
do you make speeches ? '

I do indeed,' he answered, laughing ; ^ only
too many of them. But I am a man of hobbies,
I must tell you ; I generally have some measure
on hand that I want to force through, and unless
I make a nuisance of myself there wouldn't bethe
least chance for me. So I go on pegging
away, session after session, and sometimes, after
a great deal of fighting and abuse, I carry my
point.'

He looked so strong, so good-humoured and
honest, that Nellie felt irresistibly drawn to him.
It is a great pity that you should be a Radical,'
she said gravely.

Oh ! but I assure you Radicals are not so
black as they are painted, and, as for me, I am a
very mild specimen of the race. I don't want
to abolish the Queen, or the House of Lords, or
even the Church. In fact, at this present
moment, I don't want to abolish anything, except
vivisection. That is my hobby just now. I
want total abolition of vivisection ; and I hope I
shall get it, too.'

I am sure I hope you will ! ' cried Nellie
warmly ; ' I am quite on your side there.'

What ! are you for total abolition ? You
won't be satisfied with a commission of inquiry,
or with careful supervision of the practice?
You don't think that headlong legislation is a
thing to be deprecated upon all grounds, and that
we may safely rely upon the evidence of men of
science whose devotion to the welfare of the
human race is notorious? '

'I'm for total abolition,' answered Nellie
firmly. ' The human race must shift ior itself ;
we can't hear the dogs' evidence.'

Ah! then you must be a Radical at heart.
A Radical, you know, is an obnoxious person
who insists upon going to the root of things, and

looks upon all compromises with suspicion. I
hope, after this, you won't hate all Radicals.'

You will allow me to hate vivisectionists,
though.'

No, I won't. You may hate their practice
as much as you like. Take my advice, Miss
Brune, and hate things ; don't hate people. But
I'm keeping your next partner waiting, and he
is throwing glances of unequivocal hatred at me.
Will you give me another dance later on, and
then you can tell me who the unfortunates are
whom you detest ? '

Nellie nodded ; for her new acquaintance
rather interested her, and as she was already so
deeply engaged that it would be necessary for
her to throw over somebody for every dance, she
thought she might as well disappoint two people
as one.

She took advantage of a pause in the waltz
to ask her present partner who the tall man with
the beard and the bald head was ; and after a
moment's hesitation, he answered boldly, ' John
Bright.'

That he certainly is not,' returned Nellie ;
even I know better than that. Why, John
Bright is a Quaker.'

So he is ; you're quite right. And Quakers
don't dance, do they ? Dear me ! what on earth
is that man's name ? I know it as well as I do

my own ; but I can't get hold of it. If he isn't
Bright, he's somebody of that kind. Plimsoll,
or Sir Wilfred Lawson, or somebody.'

Trustworthy information was evidently not
to be looked for from that vague person, and
Nellie decided to reserve further inquiries for
her next partner. But those inquiries were
never made ; for now a most important and unexpected
event took place : nothing less, namely,
than an intimation that his Royal Highness
desired to dance with Miss Brune ; and in the
perturbation consequent upon this announcement
Nellie forgot for a time the existence of
her new friend. She was a great deal more
alarmed than pleased by the honour conferred
upon her ; and, proud as the retrospect of having
been whirled round the room by a live prince
might prove to be in after years, the present
sensation of dancing in a vast unoccupied space,
while the rest of the assemblage stood still and
stared, was far too embarrassing to be enjoyable.
She passed through the ordeal, however, creditably
enough. The Duke of Middlesex was very
good-natured and not at all formidable, and he
was so obliging as to mould his conversation in
such a manner that an occasional ' Yes, sir,' was
all that seemed requisite to support it. When
Nellie was allowed to return to her native
obscurity, she was almost immediately joined by

the Unknown, who came up to claim his promised
dance, and who congratulated her upon
her conquest of royalty.

You will be glad to hear that you have
produced a most favourable impression upon his
Royal Highness. He was talking about you
just now to the Duke of Retford, and I heard
him say — no ; I Avon't tell you what he said ;
but it was very complimentary. I hope the
approbation was mutual.'

I don't know,' said Nellie. ' I thought he
was very nice ; but I couldn't tell you what he
talked about if my life depended upon it. I
managed to keep my wits about me just enough
to dance my best and answer when I was spoken
to ; but that was all. I never lifted my eyes
from the ground. I hadn't even the satisfaction
of seeing Mrs. Winnington turning green with
jealousy at my triumph.'

'Mrs. Winnington? Is she one of the people
whom you hate ? '

Yes ; she is,' answered Nellie emphatically.
I have no hesitation in saying that I hate Mrs.
Winnington. And so would j^ou, if you knew
her.'

But I do know her.'

'Well?'

Well, our acquaintance is rather a recent
one ; but I haven't discovered anything hateful

about her so far. She struck me as a very civil
and amiable old lady.'

Mrs. Wnmmg^ton civil and amiable ! Your
acquaintance with her must be recent indeed ; or
else you must be quite incorrigibly amiable
yourself. I don't believe even her own daughters
would call her that — at least, two of them
wouldn't. I can't answer for the third ; because
she is like you ; it isn't in her to hate anybody.'

At any rate, she may be excused for not
hating her own mother.'

I don't know. We are told to love our
enemies ; but do you think anyone really
does ? '

The question is whether we have any. My
own idea is that very few men or women have
enemies, unless they have done something to
deserve them.'

Thank you very much.'

Now I have put my foot in it. But 1 really
did not mean to say that you deserved Mrs.
Winnington's enmity ; I only meant to suggest
that perhaps, after all, it didn't exist. However,
I know nothing about it ; so I can't
judge. What is the next name on the black
list ? '

Nellie considered for a short space. ' Now
that I come to think of it,' she said slowly, ' I
am not sure that I actually hate anyone, except

Mrs. Winnington. There are the Stanniforths,
father and son, of course.'

Poor Stanniforths, father and son I What
have they done ? and why are they to be hated
as a matter of course ? '

Oh ! it is much too long a story to tell,'
Nellie answered ; ' and, besides, it would not
interest you.'

The stranger, however, declared that it would
interest him beyond everything ; and eventually
Miss Brune was induced to give reasons for her
bitter animosity against two men whom, as she
confessed, she had never even set eyes upon.
The whole history of the purchase of Longbourne,
and of the subsequent ill-gotten gains derived
from the railway company, was related ; the low
cunning of the Manchester merchant, and the
uncomplaining magnanimity of his dupe, were
dilated upon in glowing language ; and Mrs.
Stanniforth's avowed disapproval of the transaction
which had placed her in her present home
was not forgotten. The waltz, during which the
first part of the above colloquy had taken place
at intervals, was at an end ; and it was uj^on a
balcony overlooking the Duchess's rose-garden
that Miss Brune told the story of the family
wrongs.

Her hearer, meanwhile, resting his elbows
upon the broad balustrade, looked out into the

night, and allowed her to finish her narrative
without a word of interruption. Then he
said : —

Yon have run away with an altogether mistaken
notion, do you know. I have been acquainted
with old Mr. Stanniforth all my life,
and I can assure you that he is the last man in
the world to drive a hard bargain or take an
unfair advantage. Vulgar he may be, according
to your notions of vulgarity ; but no one has
ever accused him of being dishonest. He is a
man of business ; and a bargain, you know, is a
baro-ain. If I go into the market to buy an
estate, or a horse, or whatever it may be, I must
use my own judgment as to the value of my
purchase. If I didn't think it worth the price
asked, I shouldn't give that price. In fact, the
chances are that I shouldn't give the price unless,
in my opinion, it were worth a little more.'

I once heard of a man,' said Nellie, ' who
bought what appeared to be a glass bead from a
pedlar for a few shillings, knowing it to be a
valuable diamond. He was what you would
call a man of business, I suppose. If Mr. Stan-north
is a friend of yours, I am sorry I mentioned
his name ; but I am afraid I shall continue
to dislike him nevertheless.'

You would not dislike him, if you were to
meet him.'

I would not meet him for the world I ' cried
Nellie. ' Luckily, there is not the least chance
of my ever doing so ; and as for his son, Mr.
Tom Stanniforth, who is coming to stay at Long-bourne
very soon, I shall take good care to keep
out of his way.'

Isn't that rather hard lines upon poor Tom
Stanniforth ? '

I dare say it won't distress him very much,'
answered Xellie drily.

But, indeed, if you carry out your threat,
it will distress him extremely. I happen to bethe
Tom Stanniforth in question ; so I can speak
with some authority as to his feelings.'

Xellie blessed the friendly darkness which
veiled her confusion. Every word that she had
said about the elder Stanniforth's dishonesty and
plebeian origin came back to her memory with
horrible distinctness ; she was furious with herself
for her stupidity, and if the mischief had
not seemed to be past all mending, she would
have begged her companion's pardon in the humblest
language she could command. Unluckily,
however, he broke out into a great jolly
laugh ; and that was more than her pride could
brook.

It was all your fault ! ' she exclaimed.

I know it was. I ought to have told j^ou
my name long ago ; but the temptation to let

VOL. I. Q

you go on was too strong for me. Will you
forgive me, Miss Brune, and shall we shake
hands upon it ? '

But Miss Brune was no longer in a mood
either to accept or to offer apologies. ' I should
like to go in now, please, Mr. Stanniforth,' she
said, with much dignity. ' You can leave me
beside Mrs. Winnington.'

And as soon as they had re-entered the ballroom,
she withdrew her hand from her late
partner's arm and, with a little cold bow, gave
him his dismissal. He lingered near her for a
moment, as if he had something more to say ;
but, as she turned her head resolutely away
from him and began talking with great rapidity
to a bystander, he moved off presently, with a
half-amused, half concerned look upon his face,
which Nellie saw out of the corner of her
eye, and which did not serve to diminish her
wrath.

She watched his tall figure skirting the space
reserved for the dancers ; presently she saw the
Duke of Middlesex arrest his progress by a
familiar tap on the shoulder ; she observed the
easy deference with which he talked to the prince,
and consoled herself with an inward sneer at the
pliability of some people's Radicalism. Shortly
afterwards she caught sight of his long legs
extended beside Mrs. Winnington's ample skirts,

and she thought to herself, ' Now he has crone
over to the enemy.'

All this was most unjust and unfair ; but
those who amuse themselves by setting traps for
their neighbours must not expect the entrapped
ones to judge them with strict impartiality. If
Nellie could have overheard what was passing
between Mr. Stanniforth and the lady at whose
side he had chosen to seat himself, she must have
admitted that the second of her charges at least
was an unfounded one.

Yes ; that is the girl's brother dancing with
Edith,' Mrs. Bennington was saying. ' He is a
shade less objectionable than his sister ; but that
is not high praise. They are anything but a
nice family. So shockingly brought up.'

Oh, come ! ' cried Mr. Stanniforth, ^ I'm
sure you don't mean that.'

If I did not mean it, I should not say it''
rejoined Mrs. Winnington tartly ; for several
things had occurred to put her out of temper
that evening, and under such circumstances she
could not always retain command over her
tongue. Recollecting, however, that she was
not yet this gentleman's mother-in-law, she
made haste to add, in a more charitable spirit,
One must not be too hard upon them ; a
widowers children are much to be pitied, and
Mr. Brune has allowed his to run wild all their

Q. 2

lives. They are not well brought up — I cannot
pretend to consider them so — but the fault is
not altogether their own, perhaps.'

You told me that they had been brought
up almost entirely by Margaret,' Mr. Tannin
remarked ; ' otherwise I shouldn't have
doubted your sincerity. For my own part, I
think Miss Brune does Margaret infinite credit.
I have not met such an honest, unaffected girl
for a long time. She seems to me to have a
good deal of character, too ; and as for her
looks — well, one ought not to praise anybody
for possessing good looks, I suppose, however
much one may be under their influence. Beauty
is a great power, nevertheless. Upon my word,
Mrs. Winnington, if I were twenty years
younger, I believe I should fall desperately in
love with Miss Brune.'

Mrs. Bennington's eye-glasses fell from her
hand. She turned, and stared at her neighbour,
half horrified, half suspicious. Could he have
guessed at the projects which she had formed
for his future domestic bliss, and was he
amusing himself at her expense with an unseemly
jest ? She almost hoped that it might
be so. But no ; the broad smile that lighted up
his good-humoured face had not a shade of
malice in it ; it was obvious that he was expressing
his thoughts quite frankly ; and poor Mrs.

Winnington was within an ace of losing her
temper again as she looked at him.

I can't congratulate you upon your taste,
she said curtly.

It really was enough to provoke a saint. At
the cost of much pain, labour, and humiliation,
she had obtained an invitation to this ball,
simply and solely in order that Tom Stanniforth,
who, as she had heard, was to be present at it,
might dance with her daughter ; and here washer
reward ! The wretched man had danced
twice only in the course of the evening — only
twice ; and both times with the girl whom of
all others she would fain have kept out of his
way. For of course he would meet her again
at Longbourne, and of course she was pretty ;
]airs. Winnington was perfectly well aware of
that. She was prettier even, perhaps, than
Edith ; though surely less refined, less aristocratic.
But what did a horrid Manchester man
care about refinement ? Everything was u'oinof
wrong. He had not asked Edith for a dance ;
he evidently did not now intend to do so ; and
meanwhile Edith was spending a great deal too
large a portion of the evening with Walter
Brune.

Alas I the world we live in is full of disappointment
and discouragement; and what
with straitened means, and the gout, and old

age creeping on apace, there are moments in
which life itself seems but a doubtful blessing,
and its prizes, such as they are, hardly worth
the worry and weariness of struggling after.
But Mrs. Winnington was not one to allow
despondency to get the upper hand of her for
long ; and, as she had plenty of obstinacy, she
very generally got her own way in the end.
She contrived, upon this occasion, to get Mr.
Stanniforth to dance with Edith before the
evening was over ; and that was something.
Rome was not buiU in a day ; middle-aged
bachelors were gamxC that required wary stalking ;
a boy like Walter Brune could not be any
serious obstacle in the way of well-laid plans ;
nellie was clearly marked out by fate to marry
that odious young Marescalchi, who would
break her heart, and go to the dogs. Such were
the reflections with which Mrs. Winnington
comforted herself, in the intervals of slumber,
during her fifteen-mile drive home.

CHAPTER X.

MR. STANNIFORTH MAKES FRIENDS.

At the age of three-and-forty, the member for
Blackport was probably as contented a sample
of humanity as could have been found from
John o' Groat's to the Land's End. A man
who possesses wealth, congenial occupation, a
good digestion, and a clear conscience, must bea
very extraordinary sort of man indeed if hebe
not happy; and Tom Stanniforth was by
no means an extraordinary man. Some people
thought him odd ; but his oddity had never
taken the form of such base ingratitude to
Fortune as dissatisfaction with his lot, nor was
he niggardly of his smiles to a world which had
treated him so well. He liked the world, and
the world liked him ; and when he told Nellie
that he had no enemies and hated nobody, he
made a statement which was not only true, but
which, considering the circumstances of the
case, was almost a truism. He may not, perhaps,
have deserved any great credit for being in love

and charity with all men ; but the fact that he
was so was generally counted to his credit
nevertheless : and this much may, at all events,
be claimed for him, that he had not wasted his
Use, and that he had used his money and his
abilities without stint in the service of his fellow-creatures.
What he called his hobbies had all
been generous hobbies ; and if many of them
had ended in failure and some had been extinguished
by a cold shower of not undeserved
ridicule, a fair percentage at least had borne
good fruit. His shrugged his shoulders over
his failures, shook the ridicule off his broad
back, and plodded on his way, to an accompaniment
of cheers and laughter. Had he been an
ambitious man, a distinguished political career
might have been open to him, for he had plenty
of common sense ; he had had a long experience
of the House of Commons, he loved hard work,
and he had that patient diligence in mastering
the details of a subject which is one of the
rarest and most useful of qualities ; but he was
not ambitious, and in truth cared not a jot for
the game of politics. He called himself a Radical
because, in a general way, he thought it was
better to progress than to stand still ; and he
was not so amenable to discipline as he ought to
have been ; he had more than once taken upon
him to play the enfant terrible ; and thus office

never bad been, and was now never likely to be,
offered to him.

In private life he had hosts of friends, comprising
all classes of the community, from
royalty down to the operatives, the chimney-sweeps,
the discharged criminals, and others
whose wrongs he had at different times undertaken
to set to rights. Xo kind of society came
amiss to him ; and as his purse was always
open, his good nature boundless, and his acquaintance
with social shibboleths all that could be
desired, he was welcome wherever he went.
Yet, after something like a quarter of a century
of hospitality given and received, he was still a
bachelor, and, as some of his friends feared, a
confirmed one.

It may be questioned, however, whether any
bachelor of less than threescore and ten can be
said to be confirmed in his bachelorhood ; and
perhaps he is never more vulnerable than at that
precise period of middle life when mothers
commonly give him up in despair. For it is
then that the blanks caused by the death or
marriage of old friends begin to be felt, and
domesticity acquires charms never thought of
before, and a new sense of loneliness weighs
upon a man's spirits. Tom Stanniforth (no
one, by the way, ever called him anything but
Tom) was entering upon this critical phase of

his career, and was experiencing the sensations
incidental thereto, at the time when Mrs. Winnington
made up her mind to select another
son-in-law from the ranks of the plutocracy. It
is needless to say that many kind efforts had
been made before then to render his existence a
less solitary one ; but from one cause and another
they had all proved abortive. With his
great wealth, and with the knowledge of human
nature which he had perforce acquired, it might
not have been surprising if he had resolved to
lead a smile life, as modest heiresses are said
to do, from a conviction of the impossibility of
ever knowing certainly whether he was loved
for his own sake ; but, as a matter of fact, he
had formed no such determination. He had
not married simply because he had never happened
to fall very much in love ; because accidents
had prevented his following up a youthful
fancy or two ; because, in fact, he had always
had plenty of other things to think about. Now,
for the first time in the course of his busy and
joyous life, he was asking himself whether it
was not advisable that he should settle down,
and provide his huge, desolate mansion in the
Midlands with a mistress ; and he was not
unwilling to be vanquished by Mrs. Winnington,
whose intentions he perfectly understood, and
who, indeed, played her game after a fashion

which could hardly have deceived the least
suspicious of men. He thought Edith might do
very welL She was of course by a great many
years his junior, and he was not conscious of
being at all in love with her ; but these drawbacks
— if drawbacks they were — need not prevent
her from making him an excellent wife,
nor him from blessing her with the best of
husbands. So, since Margaret pressed him to
pay her a long visit, and since he had for the
moment no other engagements, save such as
could be easily got rid of, he decided to make
himself comfortable at Longbourne and wait
upon events. He might, in the sequel, propose
to Edith, or he might not ; and again, she might
accept him, or she might not. Either way he
had no great mental disturbance to dread.

The popularity to which this fortunate man
was accustomed did not fail to attend him in his
new quarters. Philip — himself a popular person,
though in a different way and from quite
other causes — recognised in the new-comer a
kindred spirit, and obtained without difficulty
his co-operation in a project for private theatricals
which Margaret had rather unwillingly consented
to think about ; Mr. Brune, who had
never shared his daughter's antipathy for the
race of Stanniforth, took a great fancy to him,
and was pleased to find that he was unaffectedly

interested in farming operations ; and Walter's
prejudices, which, if less outspoken, were not
less deep than his sister's, were overcome at
once and for ever when he walked across the
park to Longbourne one morning, and found the
member for Blackport in his shirt-sleeves practising
cricket with the coachman and a couple of
stable-helpers. As for the ladies, two at least of
them were loud in their praises of him. ' He is
so genuine,' said Mrs. Winnington, who was
fond of a stock phrase. And for many a long
day her intimates heard much of the genuineness
of Tom Stanniforth.

Nevertheless, there was one person who
made up her mind that she would have nothing
to do with the universal favourite, charm he
never so wisely. For a whole week Nellie
Brune held herself aloof, finding one excuse
after another for absenting herself from Long-bourne,
privately upbraiding her brother with
his apostacy and listening to her father's panegyrics
in eloquent silence ; and great was her
disgust when, on the eighth day, Mr. Brune
brought his friend and supplanter in to luncheon.
To avoid speaking to him was hardly practicable,
but she was determined not to be gracious ; and
she was so far successful that her father, who
rarely scolded her, took her to task somewhat
severely afterwards for her want of hospitality.

But the provoking thing was that Mr. Tannin
did not seem to notice it at all. If he had
looked conscious or embarrassed, or had shown
any signs of being ashamed of himself, her heart
might have been softened towards him ; but he
did nothing of the kind. On the contrary, he
totally ignored all previous passages of arms
between them, alluded to the Duchess of Ret-ford's
ball just as if nothing of a painful nature
had occurred on that occasion, and ended by
boldly asking Miss Brune to walk round the
garden with him and show him her flowers.

We have no flowers worth looking at,' she
answered, in a very chilling tone ; but he declined
to be chilled or to believe this assertion ;
and the upshot of it was that Xellie had to
comply with his request.

She walked a few paces in advance of him,
pointing out the various flower-beds with her
sunshade, and showing by her manner that she
was merely acquitting herself of a task, and of
an uncongenial one.

Pecunia flourish very well here ; the cancellaria
are a failure this year. This is the
rose-garden. It is small, as you see ; but the
soil is considered good for roses, and my father
has been very successful with them. He has
taken a great many prizes. In fact, he could
tell you all about them a great deal better than

I can. Quite at the end of that path there is a
magnolia-tree which people say is the finest in
the county. You can easily find your way, if
you care to go and look at it.'

Mr. Stanniforth laughed outright. 'I see
you want to get rid of me,' said he ; ^ but I am
too old and too thick-skinned to mind a snubbing.
And I am determined to be friends with
you before I have done with you, Miss Brune.'

Then please consider that we have made
friends, and that you have done with me,' cried
Nellie, with sudden irritability. ' I am sure I
am not quarrelsome ; nobody has ever accused
me of being that. I don't think it was very
kind or very polite of you to lead me on to make
myself ridiculous the other night ; but that is allover
now, and we need not say any more about
it. Probably we shall not meet often again ; soit
doesn't matter.'

I don't call that making friends,' said Tom.

Nellie made no rejoinder for some minutes,
and then said, with great deliberation : ' I should
have thought you might have been satisfied
with having made friends v^^ith everybody in the
house, except me. What can it possibly signify
to you whether I like or dislike you ? I don't
dislike you personally, if that matters : why
should I, when I know nothing about you ?
But we can never be really friends ; and you

know why. We are hereditary enemies, as the
English and French used to be.'

Hereditary enemies ! — because my father
bought an estate of yours ? '

No ; not because he bought it.'

But because he chanced to make money out
of it. I wish with all my heart that it had not
so happened ; but a fair bargain is no robbery,
for all that.'

We won't argue the question,' said Xellie
calmly. ' I have my notion of a fair bargain,
and you have yours.'

Mr. Stanniforth reddened a little. 'I can't
allow that this is a case about which there can
be two opinions he said-really you are
very— very '

Wrono;headed ? ' suowsted Nellie, smihno:.
Her equanimity began to return as her adversary's
showed signs of disturbance.

Well, I should not have ventured to use
the word myself; but if you think it applicable
'

But of course I don't. I think that it is I
who am right and you who are wrong. You are
much cleverer than I am, and I dare say that, if
we went on arguing you would get the best of
It. Only that wouldn't make us any the more
friends.'

I suppose not. Very well, then, I will bethe

friend and you shall be the foe. It will be
uncomfortable ; but it can't be helped. In the
meantime, I must go back to Margaret and tell
her that I have failed ignominiously in my
mission.'

What mission ? ' Nellie asked .

They want you to take a part in the play
that young Marescalchi is getting up. Margaret
maintained that you would never be persuaded
to act on the same stage with me ; but I made
bold to say that I could persuade you. I could
not suppose, you see, that you would pay me
the compliment of catting off your nose to spite
your face.'

Now, had this question of the theatricals
been broached ten minutes earlier, it is certain
that Nellie would have repudiated all connection
with them ; but the wiliness of Tom's diplomacy
had its effect upon her.

I don't know what you mean by " cutting
off my nose to spite my face," ' she answered. ' I
promised Philip ever so long ago that I would
act when the time came ; and I always keep my
engagements.'

So the envoy was enabled to state, at dinner
that night, that no substitute for ]bliss Brune in
the forthcoming entertainment need be sought
for. Whereupon Mrs. Winnington remarked
that in her young days it had not been customary

to encourage school-girls to give themselves
ridiculous and impertinent airs; and
Philip, from the other side of the table, observed
that one of the faults of the present system of
education was the teaching of accomplishments
which so many of the last generation had shown
themselves capable of acquiring without any aid.

This graceful sally Alas Philip's sole contribution
to the harmony of the evening. He was
silent and preoccupied and unlike himself; and
Margaret, watching him furtively, feared that
he must be ill. The fact was that Colonel
Kenyon, who had been absent on a visit to some
members of his own family, had returned that
afternoon; and the sisfht of the Colonel's face
put Philip disagreeably in mind of that encounter
at the corner of the Green Park which
he had almost succeeded in banishing: from his
memory. He was reminded of it in a still
more direct and unpleasant manner in the
smoking-room afterwards, when Hugh attacked
him suddenly with —

By the way, didn't I see you walking in
Piccadilly the other days?'

Philip shook his head. ^ I haven't been in
London at all since I saw you last, except just
to drive from one station to another. London
in August is rather too hot for people who
haven't lived in Madras.'

VOL. I. R

Well, I could have sworn it was yon
persisted FT ugh. ^ In fact, I should have spoken
to you, if you hadn't been walking With a —
lady.'

'A lady! — and in August! For heaven's
sake, Colonel Kenyon, don't make these awful
accusations when Mrs. Winnington is present, or
I shall have to write to Gloucestershire to prove
an alibi.'

Hugh said no more; but he looked rather oddly
at the young man ; and then Philip knew that
he had lied in vain. A moment's consideration,
too, showed him that he had lied unnecessarily,
which was worse. Why should he not at once
have admitted the impeachment, accompanying
his admission with a gentle insinuation that it is
not always convenient to be recognised? Had
he done so, Kenyon would have been convicted
of a breach of good manners, and no slur would
have been cast upon himself, save that of being
a young man, like other young men. But this
sensible reflection came too late to be of any use,
and from that day forth Colonel Kenyon's name
was added to Philip's list of persons suspected
and disliked.

The compliment was in some degree reciprocated
perhaps ; but Hugh was not a man who
made up his mind hastily for or against anyone
; moreover, he had promised to be a friend

to Marescalclii, and meant to keep his promise.
After the latter had left the smoking-room,
Tom Stanniforth said, in his brisk, quick
way:

That is a clever young fellow; something
ouoiit to be made out of him. Margaret is
doing her best to spoil him, though.'

'I don't know what more she could have
done for him than she has done,' said Hugh,
who, whatever his private opinion may have
been, did not choose to hear Margaret criticised
by others. ' I don't know what more any father
could do for his son than to send him to Eton
and Oxford, and allow him to choose his own
profession.'

'But the difference between a father and
Margaret is that a father would make his son
understand that, when he has chosen a profession,
he must stick to it ; or at least that he
must fix upon a profession of some kind.'

• Well, he has chosen the law, I believe.'

He has changed his mind, it seems. He
informed us in a casual sort of way at luncheon
yesterday that he didn't mean to be a lawyer ;
and when somebody asked him what he did
mean to be, he said he hadn't the ghost of an
idea. Xow, you know, that sort of thing will
never do. I don't know Margaret well enough
to interfere ; but you might say a word or two,

R 2

might you not? Women don't understand the
importance of time in these matters.'

I will speak to the lad himself,' said Hugh,
a good deal disturbed by this intelligence.

And next day, accordingly, he did take an
opportunity of expounding to Philip his simple
notions of duty. He made his lecture as little
didactic as he could ; but he knew that good
advice is seldom palatable to youth, and was
fully prepared to receive a civil hint to mind
his own business. Philip, however, took his intervention
in very good part, and disclaimed all
intention of leading an idle life.

I should never make my fortune as a barrister,'
he said ; ' it isn't my line at all. But
there are many other excellent ways of earning
one's bread. What should you think of the
Church, now? '

The Church ! Well, really — if you ask me,
I must confess I should hardly say you were
fitted to be a parson,' answered Hugh, a little
shocked ; for he had an immense reverence for
the cloth, and was not very quick at taking up
a joke.

Oh, don't you think so? This is very discouraging.
I have always been given to understand
that, though I might be a little deficient
in power of close reasoning, I had great ease of
language and a good turn for paradox — just the

sort of gifts that are calculated to make a man
shine in the pulpit and come to howling grief ina
court of law. And I can't help thinking that
I should look very nice in a short surplice and a
coloured stole. " The Reverend Philip 
" — it has a fine ecclesiastical ring. Or
perhaps we might say '' Father Marescalchi/'
for I should certainly go in for what old Langley
calls "advanced Church teaching." How
pleased Meg would be ! But perhaps, after
all, I haven't got a vocation ; and the Stock
Exchange might be more suitable upon the
whole.'

You know best what you are fitted for,'
said Hugh, who began to have a dim suspicion
that he was being laughed at. ' Take up any
trade or profession that you please, so that you
take up one or another. All that I meant to
impress upon you was that you ought not to
give Margaret a moment's uneasiness, if you
can help it.'

There was no need to impress that upon
me,' answered Philip. And Hugh, watching
him, wondered why he sighed and became grave
and sobered all of a sudden.

The truth was that Philip's love for Margaret
was the strongest feeling: of his nature.
It was not strong, certainly, in the cense of exercising
much influence over his conduct; but it

was strong enough to afflict him with occasional
twinges of remorse and sometimes even with
wakefulness at night. Some uneasiness he had
caused her in the past, and what he had done and
proposed to do must needs cause her something
more than uneasiness in the future. It was his
habit to enjoy the present, and to live for it
alone ; but, every now and again, a chance remark
or incident would bring his true position
vividly before him ; and when that occurred, he
would fall into sudden and deep despondency,
as he did now.

The two men had been to the stables, and
were crossing the lawn towards the house. As
they approached it, a carriage drove past, in
which was seated a lady who bent forward to
look at them. Marescalchi raised his hat, and
Hugh mechanically did the same.

Who is that? ' he inquired.

An old friend of yours,' answered Philip ;
Lady Travers. She pays us a visit of a few
hours about twice in the course of the year —
when she gets leave from her husband.'

^ Dear me ! ' exclaimed Hugh ; ' so that was
Kate Travers. I should never have known her
again.'

Ah, I daresay she doesn't look as young as
she did ten years ago. Old Travers leads her a
deuce of a life. They say he sends for her and

beats her whenever he feels one of his bad fits of
gout coming on ; I don't know whether it's true
or not. Anyhow, he won't let a single one of
her relations enter his house. For some years.
I believe, he devoted all his energies to picking
a quarrel with Mrs. Winnington ; but she
wouldn't be quarrelled with at any price, and
the story is that at last, in despair, he offered
her eve hundred a year upon condition that she
would swear by all she held most sacred
never to speak to him. again as long as she lived.
You ought to hear the dear old lady talk about
him. ^' Poor George ! Such a constant sufferer,
and yet such a marvellous constitution!
The doctors say he may last for many years yet.
I wish I were able to help poor Kate more in
nursing him ; but with all my other duties, you
know," &c., &c. The joke of it is that she
doesn't know whether to wish for his death or
not ; for he assuredly won't leave her anything
in his will, and it isn't absolutely certain that
she would manage to get eve hundred a year,
or the value of it, out of the widow.'

Philip's fits of dejection seldom lasted long.
The incident of Lady Travers's appearance was
quite sufficient to divert his thoughts and to
enable him, subsequently, to take his full share
in the entertainment of the new arrival.

Mrs. Winnington was talking: to her eldest

daughter when Hugh entered the drawing-room.
And how did you leave poor George ? Xot
any better ? How terribly trying it is for you !
I wish it were in my power — oh, yes, my dear,
I quite understand that he wouldn't like it ; I
know what gout is, and how irritable it makes
the best of us. Such a charming ball at the
Duchess of Retford's the other night ; I half
hoped you might have been there. Edith enjoyed
herself immensely.'

Lady Travers, tall, thin, and pale, with blue
eyes half closed, like her mother's, but with
none of that lady's grandeur of presence, got up
and held out her hand, saying, with a faint
smile and a little sigh, 'lyell ; what have you
been doing all these years ? '

I have been growing old,' answered Hugh,
and then wished he had held his tongue ; for in
truth time had been far more merciful to him
than to his questioner, and the rejoinder which
she made was almost an inevitable one.

Like all of us. But you at least are recognisable,
which it seems that I am not. I
knew you at once, when I drove past you just
now ; but you didn't know me.'

You take no care of yourself whatever,
Kate,' struck in Mrs. Winnington. ' A woman
who neglects her personal appearance neglects
her duty to society. If you go on as you have

been doing, you won't be fit to be seen by the
time you are forty.'

Lady Travers shrugged her shoulders
slightly', and sank back again upon the sofa
from which she had risen. She was a faded
woman, whose beauty, once famous, was traceable
only in the perfect moukl of her brow and
nose and in the classical ripple of her golden hair.
The lips which Hugh remembered so full and
red and constantly curved into smiles were thin
now and nearly colourless ; the contour of the
face was rounded no longer; the chin was sharp,
and there were hollows in the cheeks. Huo^h's
soft heart was touched by the sight of this
melancholy wreck. He seated himself beside
the friend of his youth, and began to chat
familiarly about bygone days; but he failed to
elicit any responsive cheerfulness from her.
Perhaps the only privilege that Lady Travers
had gained by her elevation in rank was that of
not troubling herself to talk when she did not
feel inclined; and apparently she did not feel
inclined now. At luncheon she only roused
herself from her apathy to snub Tom Stanniforth
once or twice in a wholly uncalled-for and inappropriate
manner ; insomuch that Hugh's
compassion became worn out at last, and he
wondered whether she had driven twelve miles
from the country-house where she was staying

with her gouty lord merely m order to act the
part of a general kill-joy and to say disagreeable
things to the most inoffensive and good-humoured
of men.

Before she went away, however, he heard
from her own lips not only that her visit had
had a purpose, but what that purpose was. It
was late in the afternoon, and her carriage was
waiting for her at the door, when she walked
quickly across the lawn to the shady bench upon
which he was lounging, and announced that she
wanted to speak to him. There was a pink flush
upon her cheeks, and her manner was as excited
as it had hitherto been passionless.

Hugh,' she said, ' I believe you might put a
stop to this disgraceful business, if you chose to
bestir yourself. I am powerless ; and unless you
make an effort to save the poor girl, nobody
will'

'What on earth are you talking about?'
asked Hugh, staring.

About Edith, of course ; you surely don't
mean to pretend that you don't know what is
going on. Do you tend to sit still, with your
hands folded, and see her married by force to
that man Stanniforth, who is old enough to be
her father, and whom she detests?'

But, my dear Lady Travers, I don't think
she does detest him. As far as I can judge, she

likes him very much ; and so does everyone else
for that matter. As for his ao-e '

As for his age, Lord Travers is old enough
to be mv grandfather. Is that what you were
going to say? I should have thought one such
marriage was enough for the family.'

It isn't exactly my business, you see.' said
Hugh ; • but I am bound to say that I think
Stanniforth is a capital fellow, and that his wife
has every chance of being a happy woman.'

• That is what Margaret keeps on repeating.
Margaret doesn't care ; she is wrapped up in that
theatrical boy of hers ; and so long as he gets
everything: that he wants, she thinks the whole
world ought to be contented. Besides, she is
afraid of my mother, like the rest of us. Mr.
Stanniforth may be a very decent sort of man ;
I don't say he is not. But if Edith does not
love him. she will be miserable with him all the
same. I ought to know something about the
consequences of a loveless marriage, if anybody
does.'

This was so undeniable that Hush thought
it wisest to ignore the observation. It also
struck him that Lady Travers would have
shown better taste if she had kept her domestic
misfortunes to herself.

Well,' he remarked, ' she has only to refuse
him. Stanniforth isn't an oo^re, when all is said.'

Only to refuse him! ' echoed Lady Travers
scornfully; 'that is so easy and simple, is it not?
As if you did not know what we Winningtons
are ! AYe are as weak as water, the whole of us,
and my mother has always made us do exactly
what she pleased. In my case it was not altogether
her fault ; I wanted to be a countess ;
I thought it would be a fine thing ; and I had
my reward. Edith, poor child, is not so ambitious.
All she wants is to be allowed to marry
the man of lier choice ; and if by any means I
can save her from such a life as nine has been,
I will do it.'

'The man of her choice? There is such a
person, then ? '

Never mind about that,' answered Lady
Travers, laughing a little. ' Indeed, I don't
know myself whether there is or not. She
"writes to me sometimes, and from different
things that she has said, I fancied that there
might be somebody. But that, after all, is not
the important matter.'

Well, I don't know,' said Hugh ; ' I think
it is rather important. Because, if she didn't
happen to care for anyone else, it seems to me
that Tom Stanniforth '

Oh, bother Tom Stanniforth ! ' interrupted
Lady Travers impatiently. ' I am sick of hearing
of all his good qualities. I tell you that if

lie were an angel from heaven it would make no
difference.'

Hugh rubbed his nose in perplexity. ' But
what would you have me do?' he asked. ' Why
do you come to me ? '

Because people always do come to you
when they are in trouble, and because there is
nobody else,' answered Lady Travers conclusively.
^ You can do a great deal to prevent
it, if you will only try. You can get
Margaret over to her side, for one thing, and
that will be so much gained. You might speak
to the man himself, too, if necessary; and you
are not frightened of my mother, I suppose. I
must not stay any longer. I am behind my
time as it is, and I shall be made to suffer for it.
Now remember, Hugh, I count upon you to do
your best. Perhaps I may be able to help
a little by-and-by ; but I can't be sure. Goodbye.'
And with that she hastened away to her
carriage, leaving Colonel Kenyon to sink down
upon the bench again, muttering something that
was not exactly a blessing upon womankind in
general.

It is time that I made a stand against this

kind of thing, you know,' said he to himself.

If one lot of these good people mean to continue

*e£fo;inor me on to defeat the designs of the other

lot, a day will certainly come when they will

fall upon me with one accord, and, after beating
me to death, will shake hands over my prostrate
body. Why am I to be singled out to do everybody's
dirty work, I should like to know? Already
this morning I have been preaching to one
of them, and have got sneered at for my pains ;
and now, if you please, I am to interfere between
mother and daughter, and, in all probability, to
make myself offensive to the one person in the
world whom I would cut off my hand sooner
than offend. It's out of all reason to expect me
to do it. At the same time, if it were in anyway
possible to out-manoeuvre that old harridan
'

'Has Kate been with you all this time?'
asked Mrs. Winnington, appearing suddenly
from behind a clump of evergreens at his back.
We were wondering how it was that we did
not hear the carriage drive away. What have
you been talking about? '

And Hugh, with a guilty air, answered
vaguely, ' Oh, about all sorts of things.'

CHAPTER XL

COLONEL Kenyon GOES TO CHURCH.

The Reverend Ethelbert Langley was one of
the many clergymen of the Established Church
of Great Britain who serenely defy the law everyday,
with no fear of aggrieved parishioners and
the Court of Arches before their eyes. Mr.
Langley's parishioners never dreamt of considering
themselves aggrieved, and would perhaps
have been rather ungraceful had they so considered
themselves. For so many years had he
been rector of Longbourne ; for so many years
had he devoted himself, body and soul, to the
welfare of his flock ; so unwearied ly had he
visited the sick, and with so insisting: a hand
had he ministered to the necessities of the poor,
that it would have been shabby indeed — so
these illogical folks argued — to dispute his
right to assume certain positions at certain
times in his oven church, or to array himself,
while in the performance of his sacred duties, in
garments which varied in hue with the progress

of the seasons. A fine broad spirit of toleration
prevailed in this rustic parish, where the benefit
of possessing a spiritual guide at once well-to-do,
open-handed, and a bachelor, was appreciated
at its proper value, and where the looking of a
gift horse in the mouth was justly held to be an
unworthy and foolish action.

Toleration, however (as Mr. Swains,
farmer and churchwarden, would often remark)
was one thing, and Bigotry was another. He
didn't himself see no virtue in turning away
from roast mutton of a Friday and blowing of
yourself out with jam-tarts and such-like ; but
he hoped he snowed his duty to his weaker
brethren, and if it made the missus feel better
than her neighbours to let alone butcher's meat
once a week, why what he said was, let her doit.
Vestments again was innocent kind of things
as couldn't do no harm to no one, and incense
was a beautiful smell, when once a body got his
nose used to the tickling of it ; but drat them
daily services ! How was a woman to get
through her daily work and see to things like
she daughter, if she was to be gadding olF to
church every blessed morning, same as if 'twas
a Sunday? Dunno! them ways of going on was
well enough for quality, as had nothing better
to ockipy them ; but farmers' wives had their
home soothes to 'tend ter, and if Mrs. Swains

took to neglecting hers, him and parson should
fall out, and that was all about it.

Probably good Mrs. Swains Twas not very
eager to attend matins at eight a.m. ; and, truth
to tell, the quality, despite the leisure with which
they were credited, were scarcely more zealous
than she in this matter. For it is evident that
church at eight implies rising before seven, and,
deeply as Mr. Langley was revered by the
ladies of the vicinity, there were few of them
who deemed it incumbent upon them to perform
such a feat as that for his sake. Hence it was
that the daily congregation usually consisted of
]errs. Stanniforth, of the village schoolmistress
of two or three old women who had an eye to
tea and snuff, and of the gardener from the
rectory, who rang the bell. The first of these
was as regular an attendant as the rector himself.
Summer and winter, fair weather and foul, Mrs.
Stanniforth was sure to be seen kneeling in her
place when the clock struck eight, unless by any
chance she happened to be absent from home.
She had formed and maintained the habit partly
because it had been represented to her in the
light of a duty, and partly because she particularly
disliked early rising ; for Margaret was
a victim to that not uncommon form of relic-ious
fervour which finds solace in the wearing of hair
shirts.

VOL. I. S

Not many of those who partook of the
hospitality of LoDgbourne suspected that then'
hostess had been up and about three hours before
she poured out then' coffee for them at breakfast
; but Hugh, whom a ten years' residence in
the East had accustomed to ways which are said
to ensure health, wealth, and wisdom, had seen
her tall figure many a time flitting across the
park on misty mornings, and had often longed
to follow her. He had been withheld from
gratifying this very harmless inclination by a
dread of being thought intrusive, as well as by
something of the same feeling which leads
people to speak in a whisper on entering a
church ; but, on the day succeeding that of
Lady Travers's visit, he overcame his scruples
and set off after Margaret, thinking to himself
that the end justified the means. Since he
had taken upon him to persuade her of the
iniquity of mammon-worship, it seemed wisest
to attack her at a time when worldly prudence
might be presumed to occupy the lowest place
in her thoughts.

Through the sunny garden he followed in her
track, under the branches of scented lime-trees,
along a narrow footpath, and across the meadows
where her feet had passed and had 'left the
daisies rosy ; ' and it was characteristic of the
man that, as he walked, he thought less of the

opportunity of prosecuting his own love affairs
than of lending a helping hand to those of a young
woman who had not the courage to stand up for
herself, and in whom — except in so far as that
she was Margaret's sister — he felt no very lively
interest.

It was not a part of his plan to overtake
Margaret before she reached the church door.
He slipped in behind her unobserved, and
dropped on his knees, as she did, when the
tinkling bell ceased, and Mr. Langley, after a few
inaudible words of exhortation, proceeded, in a
hurried, mumbling voice, with ' Wherefore I
pray and beseech you,' &c.

The service was soon over — too soon, even,
for one of those who took part in it. The peace
and gloom of the little, dark building soothed
Hugh's senses ; he would fain have lingered
within its quiet precincts ; he felt a nervous
unwillingness to set about the delicate business
which he had taken in hand, and to sow the seeds
of discord in a community which had hitherto
subsisted harmoniously enough. Full well he
knew that whoever declared war upon Mrs. Winnington
must reckon with no mean foe ; ^ and what,'
he thought, ' if Margaret herself should turn
me the cold shoulder ? ' such a calamity appeared
by no means beyond the range of calculation.

Her face was grave and rather sad, as she

passed down the aisle ; but it broke out into
smiles when she came upon Colonel Ken yon,
standing, hat in hand, in the porch.

You here ! ' she exclaimed. ' Did you come
to meet me ? I hope you did, because I want
very much to have a talk with you, and somehow
or other I never see you alone now.'

This was, at all events, a hopeful beginning.
Hugh confessed that she had rightly divined
the reason of his presence there. ' I came to
meet you ; I didn't come to say my prayers,' he
acknowledged, laughing.

There was nothing to prevent your
doing both,' she rejoined. ' But perhaps the
world is too much with you, as it is with
Mrs. Prosser, who says she would be obliged to
give up her situation if she had to forgive the
housemaids their trespasses every morning
before breakfast. Once a week, by making a
good gulp, the thing may be done ; but to wipe
off all scores once in the twenty-four hours
would be simply to court anarchy. So Prosser
remains in bed.'

I am willing to forgive because I want to
be forgiven,' said Hugh. ' The fact is that I am
going to do a little bit of trespassing myself. I
haven't trespassed often upon your patience and
good-nature during all this long time, have I,
Margaret? I haven't interfered unwarrantably,

or offered my opinion without having been
asked for it, even though I have been in a sort
of way your guardian.'

You have always been all that was most
kind and considerate, and I don't know what
you mean by talking about interference. Surely
I need not tell you that you may say anything
and everything that you like to me.'

^ Ah, yes : we all allow our friends that
privilege until they make use of it. Interference
is interference, call it what you will. I know
you will think me meddling and officious ; but
there's no help for it, I said I would speak to
you, and now I've got to do it.'

He looked so downcast at the prospect that
Margaret war filled with surprise and compunction.
' Why, Hugh,' she exclaimed, ' what a
foolish old fellow you are I You used not to be
troubled with so many scruples, and indeed
there is no necessity for them. I am quite
prepared for the scolding which no doubt I
deserve. It is about Philip, of course.'

Hugh shook his head ; but she either did
not see or misunderstood this gesture of dissent.
And it so happens,' she went on, ' that that is
the very subject upon which I want to consult
you. You mustn't think that his deciding to
give up the Bar is not a great disappointment
to me ; but what can I do ? 1 can't push him

by main force into a profession which he dishes ;
and surely it would not be wise to do so if I
could.'

It strikes me that a little coercion would
be a very wholesome thing for him,' replied
Hugh, thankful for this diversion. ^ As for
your not being able to force him, why, of course,
you can force him into a profession of some
kind. I mean to say you can simply stop the
supplies. Are you quite sure that it is the Bar,
and not work of any description, that he
dislikes ?'

No,' answered Margaret slowly ; * I am
not sure : to you I don't mind saying that I am
not sure. Some people feel pain more than
others, and I fancy that some people, too, abhor
drudgery more than others.'

Oh, there are drones in every hive.'

Margaret continued, without noticing this
severe interpolation. ' I have always had that
feeling about Philip. He is like the lilies of the
held, beautiful but useless. That is not his
fault,' she added, turning suddenly upon Hugh,
with a slightly defiant ring in her voice.

^ It will be his misfortune, though ; and no
small misfortune to a penniless man. If that
is the view he takes of himself, I am very sorry
for him. You ought not to encourage it,
Margaret ; you ought not, indeed. It isn't a

question of whether an idle life is or is not a
miserable thing in itself ; the fact of the matter
is that some men can afford to be purely ornamental,
and others can't. Marescalchi should
know that he is one of those who can't.'

He does know it ; but there are so many
things that one knows to be true and yet cannot
always realise. We all know that we shall die
some day ; but we don't behave as if we believed
in the possibility of any such thing. When I
die,' added Margaret with a sigh, ' poor Philip
will be cast adrift upon the world with only a
very small fortune to help him through it. That
is what troubles me so ; for I haven't been able
to save, Hugh, in spite of all my wise resolutions.
I thought at first that I could easily lay
by half my income ; but, as things have turned
out, it has been quite the other way, and it is all
that I can do to make both ends meet. You
did not think I was such a spendthrift, did
you?'

^ I know that your money is not spent upon
yourself,' said Hugh, with a shade of indignation
in his voice.

'It is spent in ways that please myself,' she
returned, quietly. ' I can't claim any superiority
over the people who pay thousands a year to
their dressmakers, because I don't happen to
care about dresses. Circumstances have obliged

me to find my pleasure in the pleasure of others,
and that is how my money goes. It sounds
unselfish ; but it is not so really ; and the proof
is that, if I had thought a little more about
Philip's happiness years ago, I should not have
accustomed him to a luxurious style of living:.
Now it has come to this, that I may die any
day, and leave him in what to him would seem
almost like absolute want.'

This affecting prospect failed to touch
Hugh's feelings ; but he was greatly alarmed
at the suggestion of Margaret's sudden decease.


'What makes you say that?' he asked
quickly. ' Is anything the matter ? You are
not looking at all well.'

I never was better in my life,' she answered,
laughing ; ' but one can't tell what may happen.
My lungs are not all right, as you know; and weare
a consumptive family ; and the insurance
offices refuse to have anything to do with me,
which is a great bore. In short '

In short, Marescalchi will have to work for
his living, and give up lazy habits. And a very
good thing too.'

But really, Hugh, he is not lazy ; he doesn't
mind putting himself to any amount of trouble
about theatricals, for instance, or anything in
which he is interested. What I doubt is his

power of applying himself to work in which he
is not interested. I often think that he is best
suited for some kind of artistic career — something
independent, something exciting, something
that might bring quick successes.'

Then he had better put on spangled tights,
and tumble in the ring. After all, I believe the
stage is more in his line than anything else,'
said Hugh, who was growing a little weary of
discussing Philip's aptitudes, and who was far
from suspecting how nearly his notions corresponded
with that young gentleman's own upon
this point.

Don't be ill-natured. Hugh,' said Margaret;
and he apologised at once.

I didn't mean to be ill-natured ; I am sure
you know that. It slipped out. My bark is
worse than my bite.'

In truth Colonel Kenyon believed that he
was capable of saying extremely sharp things
upon occasion, and frequently took himself to
task at nio'ht for having: uttered some such
withering sarcasm as the above.

The two friends had left the church far behind
them in the course of their conference, and were
now walking across the short grass of the park,
which the sun had already dried. The time
seemed to have come for Lady Travers's envoy
to discharge himself of his mission ; and he was

knitting' his brows and cudgelling; his brains in
the effort to find some artful method of leading
up to the subject when Margaret took up the
conversation with —

^ Now I am going to inflict another of my
troubles upon you. You remember what I told
you, the day you arrived, about Tom Stanniforth
and Edith?'

Ah ! ' sighed Hugh, drawing a long breath
of relief and satisfaction.

She glanced at him interrogatively. ' Have
you heard anything? Did Tom speak to you
about it ? '

No, but Lady Travers did. She took me
into her confidence yesterday afternoon, before
she went away.'

Did she ? ' exclaimed Margaret, in a tone of
some vexation ; ' I wonder what made her do
that.'

I can't think. But she did ; and, to tell
you the truth, I wish she hadn't. I told her it
was none of my business, and all that ; but she
had got it into her head that I could do what she
couldn't ; and so — there it was. She said I
might get you over to Edith's side perhaps. I
don't know why she should have imagined so;
but '

^ Edith's side ! ' cried Margaret ; ' but I amon
Edith's side ; and so, of course, is my mother,

if Kate would only see it. Lie made us very
unhappy yesterday by the things she said. Is it
likely that my mother would wish for anything
that would make her daughter miserable ? '
Hugh was eloquently silent.
You don't understand my mother,' Margaret
resumed, after waiting in vain for a reply. ' Because
she is anxious that Edith should marry
well, you think her mercenary and scheming ;
and yet, when a father tries to put his son in
the way of becoming a rich man, you say he is
only doing his duty. To a woman there is but
one means open of obtaining riches, and everyone
allows that riches are desirable in themselves.'


You used not to think so.'

Nor do I now — for myself ; but I am exceptional.
Generally speaking, parents wish
their children to be spared the pinch of poverty;
and if any woman told me that she would not
prefer a rich son-in-law to a poor one, I shouldn't
believe her. It seems to me that there can be
no possible harm in giving a girl the chance of
marrying a man who is not only rich but kind
and good.'

I quite agree with you ; but you wouldn't
have the girl marry a man because he was rich,
and kind, and good, if she didn't love him.'

No ; only I think those would be very good

reasons for loving him ; and I am quite sure
that it would be an excellent thing for Edith if
she could care for Tom Stanniforth. He evidently
admires her, and, to the best of my belief,
she likes him. At all events, there is this
to be said, that she does not like anybody else
better.'

Hugh began to laugh. 'None so blind as
those who won't see,' he remarked. ' Why, my
dear Margaret, where have your eyes been, and
what do you think is likely to happen when boys
and girls are together all day long? I don't
pretend to be specially quick sighted in such
matters ; but even I could have told you and
Mrs. Winnington that there was some risk in
providing Edith with a good-looking young man
for a constant companion.'

Margaret stood still, and clasped her hands
nervously. ' Oh ! what do you mean ?' she
exclaimed. ' Surely it isn't Philip ! '

No, no, it isn't Philippe le Bel, Philip the
Eternal and the Inevitable — it isn't Philip this
time. There, I beg your pardon ; but really,
you know, Philip is not the only good-looking
young man in the world. There's no accounting
for tastes ; and, for my own part, I confess that
I think Walter Brune the handsomer of the
two.'

Walter Brune ! ' repeated Margaret, incredulously

; ' he is only a boy. Walter cannot
be thinking of marrying ; he has really no prospects
whatever, poor fellow. Mr. Brune is not
at all well off, as I daresay you know ; and he
was telling me, the other day, that he very much
regretted now that he had not brought Walter
up for some profession. It has always been a
sort of tradition with them that the eldest son
should do nothing, and the idea was that Walter
should remain at home and occupy himself with
farming until, in due course, he succeeded his
father as owner of Broom Leas ; but it seems
that of late years the farm has not even paid its
way, and, with all that family to be provided for,
you may imagine what chance there is of poor
Walter's being able to support a wife. I feel
sure that you must be mistaken about him.'

I may be — only somehow I don't think I
am. Young people usually fall in love first,
and turn their attention to ways and means
afterwards. It is a pity that it should be so ;
but we must take human nature as we find it.'

Colonel Kenyon spoke a little drily ; for he
was disappointed at finding that Margaret viewed
this incipient romance from so commonplace and
conventional a standpoint. It would have been
more like her, and more womanly, he thought,
to have at once espoused the cause of the needy
lover j and, had she done so, he would have been

quite prepared to argue upon the other side, to
expatiate upon the folly of long engagements, and
to point out how impracticable it was to live
upon love. As she said nothing, but walked on
with her eyes fixed upon the ground, he felt
bound to continue in the same strain as he had
begun.

Supposing that I am right in my conjecture,
and that Mrs. Winnington discovers a hitch in
her programme, I hope she drill remember that
she has only herself to thank for it.'

Margaret shook her head sorrowfully. ' No,'
she said ; ' it is my fault. If there is anything
between Walter and Edith it is my stupidity
that has brought it about. To you it must seem
as if my stupidity had been very great indeed ;
but you don't know how difficult it is to realise
that a few years convert children into men and
women. Philip is different ; he has always been
old for his age, and he has seen so much of the
world. But Walter is a big schoolboy in all his
habits still. It was so much a matter of course
that he should be continually in and out of the
house that it never occurred to me to make any
change when Edith and my mother came to live
with me, or to suppose that he would think of
Edith, or she of him, in that way. I knew it
was essential that she should marry money, and
I always expected to hear that some one had

been found for her in London. I had my own
hopes about PhiHp ; I know — or, at least, I
think I know — who will be his wife some day ;
and Walter — well, I suppose I forgot that, as
you say, people will fall in love, whether they
can afford to marry or not. I am the one who
is to blame.'

^ That is to say that you are the one who
will be blamed — which is not quite the same
thing,' remarked Hugh.

Oh, as far as that goes, I shall never cease
to blame myself. Nothing can come of this
attachment, you know, if it exists — nothing
good, that is ; nothing but tears and disappointments,
and perhaps quarrels. Even supposing,
for the sake of argument, that my mother could
be brought to consent to an engagement, Mr.
Brune never would.'

Well, I don't know about that. You seem
to think that he will be willing enough to let his
daughter engage herself to a young gentleman
with extravagant tastes, no money, and no
career. My own impression is that when once
Mrs. Winnington's opposition is broken down
the battle will be as good as won.'

Do you really wish to make a battle of it,
then ? and are you, of all men, going to proclaim
yourself the champion of two silly lovers ? '
asked Margaret, laughing a little. ' I should

have thought lovers were the last people in the
world to arouse your sympathy.'

At this Hugh winced slightly, and probably
she saw that her words had hurt him, for she
made haste to add, ' I know you sympathise with
everybody who is in tribulation, though ; you
would like to make the whole human race
happy, if you could. That is the difference between
you and me ; you serve others without
thinking about yourself, while I do the same, or
make a feeble effort at doing it, because it
pleases myself But, Hugh, there would be no
kindness in showing sympathy — active sympathy
I mean — with these two. Just think of it. The
utmost that they could hope for would be a vague
prospect of being married some day ; and ' some
day ' could only mean after Mr. Brune's death —
nothing else that I know of could put them into
possession of a sufficient income. Don't you see
what the end of it would be sure to be ? After
a few years it would all be broken off ; and
though that might not be an irreparable misfortune
to Walter, I am afraid it might very
easily be so to Edith. In such cases it is always
the woman who suffers.'

Ah ! ' said Hugh ; ' it's a crooked business,
look at it which way you will.'

'Every business that I meddle with goes
crooked ! ' cried Margaret, with a sudden burst

Oh, but you must not reproach yourself sofar
as this affair is concerned said Hush, all his
inclination towards sternness melting away at
the sight of her distress. ^ After all, we know
nothing. Lady Travers and I may have been
too hasty in jumping to conclusions. Anyhow,
you have done the best that you could do for the
girl; you have given her a capital chance of
establishing herself, and if she is so perverse as
to like the poor man better than the rich one. it
is no fault of yours.'

I ought not to have allowed her the chance
of liking the poor one,' Margaret sighed. ' How
everything comes roimd to a question of money !
I used to think that the one treat blessing of
beings rich would be that one would not need to
trouble one's self with that detestable subject ;
but somehow it seems that there is no escape
from it. My money has never done any good
to me, and sometimes I am afraid that it has
done no good to other people either.'

You wanted to get rid of it once,' Hugh
remarked, with a flint smile.

So I do still ; I have not chant-ed. And,
indeed, I do get rid of it,' she added, glancing at
her companion with a half deprecatory laugh;
VOL. I. T

only I am not sure that anybody is the better
off. The older I grow the more plainly I see
that wealth is the source of all evil. You told
me long ago that it would at least give me
independence ; but it has not done anything of
the kind. Some people, you know, are not fit
to be independent ; and evidently I am one of
them. I want somebody to order me about, and
to tell me when I make a fool of myself.'

You want somebody to take care of you
and protect you, perhaps,' said Hugh, with a
slight tremor in his voice.

^ That is a prettier way of saying the same
thing. However, no one seems inclined to
undertake the task, except Mr. Langley; and
Mr. Langley, unfortunately, won't do. At one
time I thought I would try it ; but when I
found that he would be satisfied with nothing
short of unconditional submission, I had to beat
a hasty retreat, and I don't think he has ever
quite forgiven me. A director is a comfort in
some ways; but then he must not be an
absolute tyrant.'

/Ah! I should not be so exacting,' murmured
Hugh.

She did not in the least guess his meaning ;
Taut, seeing how serious he looked, it occurred to
her that he might fancy himself slighted by that
bygone craving for priestly guidance.

I don't mean to say that I ever thought of
consulting Mr. Langley as a friend or a man of
the world she explained. ' You know that
you are my one and only friend and adviser.
But one is not obliged to take advice, you see;
and when it is good advice one very seldom does
take it. "What I want, in order to keep me
from doing foolish things with my eyes open, is
authority ; and if I could have brought myself
to believe in Mr. Langley's claims to obedience, I
daresay I should have been preserved from the
commission of many injudicious actions ; but he
tells me I have no right understanding of the
apostolic succession. The upshot of it is that I
must go bungling on in my own way.'

Hugh was not listening to her. His sober
brain was in a whirl ; he hardly knew how
much he had said or implied. Accident — a
sudden feeling of great compassion, an inward
revolt against the falseness of his position — had
led him to the very verge of the leap at which
he had been craning for so long, and now he
had lost his head a little, as timid riders will in
such situations. He might have chosen his
time and place ill ; calamity might be waiting
with grinning jaws to swallow him up on the
other side ; but the control of events had
slipped out 'of his grasp, and the only thing
clear to him was that jump he must. His come

2

panton and he had crossed the park, and had
reached a gate which separated it from the
garden. He had stepped forward to let her
through ; but, instead of doing so, he wheeled
round abruptly, and faced her.

Margaret,' he began, in an odd, hurried
voice, ' I have something to say to you, something
that I have been wanting to say any time
these ten years. Ah! it is more than that — it
is a great deal more than ten years since I first
loved you. I don't know whether this is any
news to you; but you need not give me an
answer now. You can think it over. You
won't decide in a minute, when you remember
that it is all my life, past and future, that is
standing up for judgment. Oh, I don't expect
you to be in love with me — an old fellow like
me ! I am not such an ass as that. And yet I
am sure that I could make you happy. If I
were not sure of that, I should never have
dared to speak. I am asking you to give up a
great deal ; but wealth is not what you care for,
and I have saved a little — we should not be
what is called exactly poor. And something I
can give you : I can give you a home, and rest
from all the worries that have troubled you,
and — and a heart — a heart which '

He pulled up just in time to save himself
from floundering into absolute bathos. Hugh

had not the gift of unpremeditated eloquence.
He had at least declared himself in a manner
which could not be misunderstood, and in the
eagerness of the moment the fashion of his
declaration seemed a matter of minor importance.
It is not until darkness has fallen, and
we have our pillow for our confidant, that we
recall the idiotic speeches of the day with
groaning that cannot be uttered. As for
Colonel Kenyon, his part in this scene might
have been more impressive, but would assuredly
not have been more successful, if he had rehearsed
it for weeks beforehand. His heart
sank when he glanced at Margaret's face ; for he
read there not only astonishment and pain, but
something more, which looked terribly like
disgust.

I never would have believed this of you
she said in a low voice. ' Will you let me pass,
please? '

Hugh started back, and threw open the
gate. He had failed, and his failure did not
surprise him ; but he was not going to bespoken
to as though he had done something to
be ashamed of. Therefore, he said, with a
o^reat show of determination, " You will give
me an answer, Margaret. It shall be <Tiven
dien you please ; but I have a right to an
answer.'

There can only be one answer she replied,
without looking at him. ' How could you think
but if you have not understood, there is no
use in talking about it ! Only I think yoii^ at
least, might have known that I am not the less
Jack's wife because he is dead, and that to speak
to me of — of — love is to insult both him and me

You don't mean that, Margaret ; you must
know that it is not so. A widow is not a wife,
and there is no insult in an honest man's offer
of his love and name.'

Coming from any one else, there might not
be ; but coming from you, there is.'

That is a very cruel and a very unjust thing
to say,' cried Hugh.

I think it is you who are cruel,' she
returned.

They walked on for a few paces in silence,
and then Margaret stopped short suddenly, and
exclaimed, ' Let us try to forget all this ; let us
never say another word about it as long as we
live ! I think I can see how it has happened.
It was my fault, because I grumbled about
being lonely, and about things going wrong.
You thought there was only one way of escape
for me, and you were ready to sacrifice yourself,
as you always are. You did not understand ;
but I suppose men never do understand how
women feel. All men forget after a time.'

Hugh shook his head. ' I at least am not a
man who forgets easily. If you knew all, you
would acknowledge that. I never loved, and
never shall love, any woman but you. I loved you
long before you ever saw poor Jack Stanniforth.
I could not speak in those days, and afterwards
I would not, because I feared to offend you. At
the end of ten years I was surely entitled to
open my lips. Is it because through all that
long time I have done my utmost to serve you,
and to behave towards you like a friend and
nothing more, that you accuse me of insulting
you when I confess the truth at last ? '

^ Oh, don't go on ! ' she exclaimed, holding
up her hand with an imploring gesture ; ' you
don't know how dreadfully it pains me to hear
you talk like that. It seems as if — as if '

Asifwhat ?'

As if it had been all a pretence — your
friendship, I mean. Why did you not tell me
of this long ago ? '

^ Would it have made any difference if I
had ? '

It would have made this difference, that
there would have been no deceit.'

'I never was accused of being deceitful
before in all my life,' cried Hugh with some
warmth.

I did not mean to accuse you of that she

answered, a little ashamed of herself. ' I don't
want to make any accusations, and I beg your
pardon if I have hurt you by anything that I
have said. The best thing that we can do is
never to refer to the subject again. I am very,
very sorry, Hugh,' she added, holding out her
hand to him ; ' but what you wish for is quite
impossible.'

He took her hand meekly enough. He felt
that he was being very badly treated, that he was
being forgiven without having sighed ; but he
was a man accustomed to be roughly used by
Fortune, and at that particular moment he
dreaded a permanent breach with Margaret as
the worst disaster that could befall him.

You are not angry?' he said humbly, and, it
must be admitted, rather weakly.

No,' she answered slowly, ' I am not
angry; I have no right to be so. I am rather
disappointed, that is all. Do what we will,
things can never be quite the same again.'

I suppose not.'

Ah ! ' she said, pausing on the doorstep to
deliver the last shot after the manner of her
sex, ' we are like the purblind people in the
parable ; we have been so busy trying to remove
the mote from Edith's eye that we never noticed
the beam that was in our own.'

Thinking over this not very apt illustration

afterwards, Hugh was forced to the conclusion
that the plural number had been made use of in
it merely as a concession to politeness, and that
it was not in Margaret's eye that the beam was
supposed to exist.

CHAPTER XII.

PHILIP EXEMPLIFIES A THEORY.

Margaret Stannifouth, as the perspicacious
reader will hardly require to be told, was not a
strong-minded woman. Such claims to love and
admiration as she possessed — and Hugh Kenyon
was by no means alone in deeming her entitled
to both — were assuredly not based upon any
element of strength in her character, but rather,
perhaps, upon the evidences of that weakness
which used in old-fashioned times to be considered
a woman's strength. She did not always
know her own mind, and was painfully aware
that she did not know it ; without being what
is called impulsive, she was yet much under the
influence of impulses ; and in all things she was
prone to be guided less by her head than by her
heart. Of the latter the best part had been
given away to her lost husband, and had not
been recalled. With rare fidelity and imaginativeness
she had kept constantly before her eyes
the image of the man who had been so long

dead, and it may truly be said that she never
decided upon any course of action without first
asking herself what his wishes would have been
with regard to it. That her interpretation of his
supposed wishes should have been for the most
part devoid of all probable accuracy was but
natural : she would have been a far more remarkable
woman than she was, had it been otherwise.
It is tolerably certain, for instance, that Jack
Stanniforth, who had had the common sense
of his family, would not have advised the adoption
of our young friend Marescalchi, nor the
frequent payment of that very expensive youth's
bills ; nor, it may be assumed, would he have
held his widow called upon to provide a home
and a liberal income for his mother-in-law ; but,
happily for Margaret, she was not troubled with
disturbing doubts upon these and many other
points, and seldom failed to convince herself that
she had received a silent sanction for her least
prudent proceedings. The process by which
she arrived at this comfortable persuasion would
have been found, if analysed, to take the form of
a beautifully simple syllogism. Such and such
things appeared to her, upon mature reflection,
to be right ; Jack was always right ; therefore,
Jack would have approved of her doing as she
proposed. Thus, in perfect good faith, she invested
her imaginary lord with the attributes of

a constitutional sovereign, and proceeded from
deliberation to action, fortified by a perfunctory
formula of Le Roi le vault.

Now nothing; could be more clear than that
Jack would have been greatly displeased at any
man addressing her as Colonel Kenyon had done ;
still more would he have been displeased had he
foreseen that Colonel Kenyon, his friend and
executor, would be the man to offend in such a
manner. Therefore, Margaret, although she had
declared that she was not angry with Hugh,
could not but feel that she had just cause for
anger ; nor was her anger at all lessened by
consciousness that, according to the generally
received standard of conduct, the culprit had
been guilty of no offence at alL People do
marry again. The practice may be a reprehensible
one, but it is not uncommon ; and, upon
the whole, Margaret found that her chief
grievance against Huo;h was that he had so
misunderstood her as to suppose her one of
those people. "When your friends begin to
misunderstand you, you may forgive them ; but
you are not far off from the point at which they
must cease to be your friends any more. As
Margaret had said, ' it could never be the same
thing again ;' and Hugh, for his part, was not
contr in reaching; a similar conviction. There
was no quarrel. On the contrary, vigorous

efforts Avere made on both sides to avoid even
the semblance of a coolness ; but in spite of
these exertions — perhaps, to some extent, inconsequence
of them — the coolness existed, and
made itself felt. Indeed, it would be difficult,
under any circumstances, for a rejected suitor to
remain with comfort in the same house with the
lady who had rejected him : and before a week
was out Colonel Kenyon entertained no doubt
as to the expediency of his quitting Longbourne.
In the nick of time the Horse Guards considerately
provided him with an easy means of
retreat by promoting him to the command of a
field battery at Shorncliffe. So the Colonel
departed ; and as soon as he was gone ]margaret's
heart because softened towards him.

The absent, it is said, are always in the
wrong ; but the absent enjoy also this counterbalancing
privilege, that with the withdrawal of
their persons the memory of then wrong-doing
loses sharpness of outline. Margaret desired
nothing more earnestly than to forget, if that
might be, Hugh's unfortunate lapse from the
path of duty, and there were times when she
very nearly succeeded in doing so. She thought
of him and missed him greatly through the long
summer days, while Mrs. Winnino^ton, o^roaninor
over the heat, worked a huge fan with irritating
rattle from morning to night ; while soft-footed

Mr. Langley came and went, bearing appeals for
charity to the drawing-room or priestly counsel
to Mrs. Prosser, of whose conscience he was the
keeper ; while the laughter and wrangling of
the 3'oung people, rehearsing for the coming
theatricals, rang through the house, and the
hammering of the carpenters, who were knocking
up the stage, was incessant.

After a great deal of discussion, and the
usual difficulties with over-ambitious spirits,
Philip had got his company together, and was
laboriously drilling and coaxing its members
into subordination. The piece that he had
chosen was a comedy of modern life, the genera]
drift of which was one that has served for many
comedies, new and old. There was a young
couple in it, who had become estranged, as young
couples do in plays and sometimes in real life,
for no particular reason, except that they were
half-angered with their happy lot ; ' there was
a wicked and fascinating man of the world, who
harboured fell designs against the lovely bride ;
there was a clever lady, who after promoting
this intrigue through two acts and a half, flirting
desperately with the injured husband, and
bringing about all sorts of painful situations,
came out in her true colours in the denouement
when she unmasked the villain and joined the
hands of the erring and repentant pair ; finally,

there was the guileless husband of the above
lady, whose mission it was to make the audience
laugh by his mingled jealousy of and admiration
for her, by his bewildered queries, and by the
meekness with which, upon all occasions, he
obeyed her impatient command to ^ go away
somewhere and smoke.'

The play, when first read out by Philip, was
fortunate enough to meet with general approval,
the only dissentient voice raised being that of
Tom Stanniforth, whose notion of action was
dressing up, and who protested that a play
without powder and patches was only half a
play ; but as to the distribution of the parts there
was less unanimity. Miss Brune was to take
the part of the clever woman — everybody agreed
as to that ; and we have seen in what manner
she was subsequently induced to accept it.

So far so good,' said Mrs. Winnington,
holding up the book, and surveying it through
her glasses ; ' but now about the rest of the
characters.' She knew, if Tom Stanniforth did
not, that masquerading is by no means the chief
object of drawing-room comedies, and her eagle
eye had at once detected the opportunities which
this particular one might be made to afford for
the furtherance of other and more important ends.
Mr. Marescalchi will of course be the unprincipled
man of fashion,' she went on. ' Younger.

Brine might do for his sister's husband.
Very suitable, both those parts. Then we come
to the young couple ; evidently Edith and Mr.
Stanniforth.'

But Philip said, Oh, dear no! that cast
wouldn't do at all. How, for instance, could
you expect poor Walter to throw any animation
into his acting, if his cue was to be blindly in
love with his own sister? And then, to the
general astonishment, he announced that he
himself proposed to fill the part for which
Walter was stated to be ill-qualified, while the
latter was to play Stephen to Edith's Amaryllis,
and Mr. Stanniforth — of all people in the world !
was to be the villain of the piece.

Utterly preposterous and absurd ! ' cried
Mrs. Winnington ; and for once the chorus was
with her.

But Philip answered imperturbably, ' Not in
the least absurd. Now, my dear Mrs. Winning-ton,
I'll explain to you, if you will allow me, the
principle upon which all good casts are formed.
Your idea, which is that of the uninitiated public,
is that every one is best able to represent
the character which most resembles his own.
Nothing could be more erroneous ; exactly the
reverse is the true state of the case. A man
can't imitate himself ; all the little peculiarities
of a person of his own stamp seem to him so

natural that lie never notices them ; whereas,
the characteristics of his opposite will strike him
at once, and he will accentuate them in his
acting. That is what one has to bear in mind
in assigning parts to performers. Now, supposing,
for example, that you yourself were todo
us the honour of wishing to appear on the
stage with us, do you think I should ever dream
of asking you to accept the part of an amiable
and benevolent lady ? Never ! On the other
hand, if I wished for any one to interpret faithfully
the character of a selfish, hypocritical old
sinner, I should think of you directly

That is nonsense,' said Mrs. Winnington,
turning; rather red.

I am very much disappointed to hear you
say so. I thought you would agree with me
so cordially that I was unfit to represent a knave
as soon as I had expounded my theory to you.'

Your theory is nonsense,' repeated Mrs.
Winnington with decision.

Really, Marescalchi, I am afraid it won't
hold water in the present instance,' chimed in
Mr. Stanniforth. ' I take it that I am about the
worst actor of the lot, and you have given me
the most important part in the piece.'

Nobody can say which is the most important
part until the piece has been played,'
answered Philip oracularly. ' We are all going

VOL. I. u

to do our best ; but we can't do justice to ourselves
if the square pegs are put into the round
holes

Further protests were entered from various
quarters ; but as Philip stood firm, and declared
that unless he were allowed to have his own
way he would not act at all, he carried his point
in the end. As the council broke up, he took
an opportunity of whispering to Walter, ' There,
old man; don't say I never did you a good
turn.'

I don't know what you mean,' said Walter.

Of course you don't,' returned Philip,
laughing, and walking away. That Philip had
meant by this strange allotment of roles merely
to carry out his whimsical theory was what
nobody believed, nor did it occur to anyone that
he had been actuated by a good-natured desire to
give two young lovers the occasion of playing
husband and wife ; but what was indeed his object
seemed somewhat obscure. Only Margaret had
formed a surmise upon the matter ; and it was
one which was not displeasing to her. She told
him afterwards that he ought to be ashamed of
himself.

You have spoilt the play,' she said, frowning
and smiling upon him ; ' and Nellie mil not
thanlv you, you may be sure. If she was to have
a fictitious Island for one evening, you surely

need not have objected to AValter's being the
man.'

Philip seemed greatly amused. ' Oh, Meg,
Mes,' he cried, ^ what a desicrnino- old matchmaker
you are becoming ! I haven't spoilt the
play a bit ; it will be the greatest success that
ever was known ; and in the meantime you areas
good as a dozen plays, all of you. What
criminal folly are you allowing your brains to
hatch, you improvident woman ? Do you know
she won't have a penny, ma'am ? '

Ah, Philip I ' sighed Margaret ; ' money is
not everything.'

No ; nor is love everything. One wants a
happy combination of the two, I suppose, and
that is not easy to achieve. Not that I am in
love with Nellie Brune ; and Heaven forbid that
I should suppose her capable of falling in love
with so unworthy an object as myself. Don't
you see that I can't afford to fall in love with
her ? '

A man can always make an income for himself,'
said Margaret.

^ Can he ? I think I know some men who
have a fatal power of spending twice as much as
they are likely ever to earn. Don't build castles,
Meg ; it's a shocking bad habit. Or, if you
must build them, build them for yourself, not
for other people. Otherwise they will come

tumbling down about your poor ears, roofs, and
battlements, and all, one of these fine days ; and
when I come to dig you out of the ruins, you
will turn and revile me, and say it was all my
fault;

She shook her head. ^ No ; I shall never
say that.'

'Ah! you don't know what you will say.
Let us get back to our play-acting ; it's a thousand
times more satisfactory a game than real
life.'

Whether satisfactory or not to the majority
of the performers, the fashion after Which Philip
had chosen to conduct his play-acting was productive
of immense amusement to one at least
of those who attended the subsequent rehearsals.
Mr. Brune perfectly understood, and to some
extent participated in, the half good-humoured,
half malicious, pleasure which Marescalchi derived
from the spectacle of incongruity ; and in
truth, Tom Stanniforth, pacing the stage with
creaking boots, and giving utterance in a loud
hearty voice to the most outrageous and immoral
sentiments, was a legitimate subject for
mirth of the quieter kind. Tom had thrown
himself into his task with all his wonted energy ;
he had learnt by heart every word he had to
say ; he was submitting with much docility to
be educated into the semblance of a base deceiver :

and there really seemed to be every chance that
he would eventually pull through quite as successfully
as a painstaking man without a vestige
of histrionic talent could be expected to do. He
had, however, a way of frowning and shaking his
head after each cynical soliloquy — as though he
felt it incumbent upon him to offer some gentle
reminder that it was a purely fictitious personage,
not by any means Tom Stanniforth, who
was speaking — which was irresistibly comical.
Mr. Brune would sit in a corner, watching this
conscientious actor and laughing softly to himself,
by the hour together.

One afternoon sirs. Winnington joined him,
and asked him whether he did not think it was
a great deal too bad that everybody's pleasure
should be interfered with, and a good play
turned into a positive farce, only in order to
gratify the whim of a spoilt boy. ' Mr. Tannin
is so accommodating and kind that he
would do anything that he was asked to do,'
she said ; ' but it is easy to see that he has been
forced into accepting a thoroughly uncongenial
part.'

But he does it so well,' Mr. Brune remarked.

.Do you think so ? Well, I can't agree with
you. He is doing his utmost certainly ; he
would be sure to do that. But for Mr. Tannin
to attempt to personate selfishness and

duplicity is quite absurd. He is too — too —
what shall I say ? '

Genuine ? ' suggested Mr. Brune resignedly.

Exactly so : he is far too genuine for that
kind of thing. Xow young Marescalchi '

Oh, but he is genuine, too — in his way.
He is a genuine humorist ; you must allow
that.'

How so ? I don't quite understand you.
To my mind, he is simply mischievous and
malevolent. To put the play upon the stage in
the way that he is doing is to insult the intelligence
of his audience.'

On the contrary, he is paying a high
compliment to the delicacy of your perceptions.
He is going to offer you a really fine piece of
comedy in the place of a rather dull play ; and
you ought to be grateful to him.'

It appears that your notions of comedy and
humour differ from mine,' said Mrs. Bennington,
j^who disliked Mr. Brune, and suspected
him, not without reason, of sometimes laughing
at her.

Nevertheless, when the day of representation
came, Mrs. Winnington was compelled to add a
grudging contribution to the general plaudits,
and to confess that the result belied her anticipations.
Philip had done wonders with his somewhat
unpromising troupe. Patiently and carefully

had he drilled them, day after day, and
evening after evening, and now his labour met
with its just recompense. Xellie Brune, who
was a very ^ fair actress, and had had some
previous experience to guide her, would have
done well even without coaching ; and as for
the others, if their instructor could not give
them talent, he had at least taught them how to
stand and sit, how to manage their voices, and
how to get off the stage. He had also taken
much pains with the subordinate personages,
whose names and characters need not be particularised
here, showing them every opportunity
of making a point, and gently fanning their
self-love with many a judicious word of surprise
and admiration. And all the time he had held
his own part in reserve. His duties as general
instructor had furnished him with an excuse for
reading; rather than acting; his share of the
dialogue, and perhaps he had designedly kept
himself in the background up to the last
moment ; for he had not a soul above small
effects. Even the country gentlemen who, with
their Vives and families, made up the bulk of
the audience, and whose critical faculties were
scarcely likely to be of a sensitive order, could
not but perceive and wonder at the skill with
which he transformed a ludicrous and undignified
part into a pathetic one ; and that without missing

a particle of its humour or being guilty of
the smallest exaggeration. Those who applauded
so loudly could not have given very definite
reasons for their applause perhaps ; but it was
vaguely borne in upon them that they were
being treated to the spectacle of a tour de force ^
and it put them in good humour, and made them
feel how clever they must be to have discovered
that much.

It was one of Philip's rules to study every
part that he undertook from observation of some
living model : all true artists adopted that plan,
he declared, and all art was nothing but imitation.
In the present instance he had been
pleased to select Colonel Kenyon as the groundwork
of his conception of a fond and foolish
husband ; and Margaret, who believed herself
to be alone in detecting this detail, and who was
somehow a little pained by it, was compelled to
acknowledge that the portrait was both a faithful
and a suggestive one. Poor Hugh! it had
never occurred to her before, but now it seemed
obvious enough, that he was just the man to be
led by the nose all his life by some woman.
What a dismal instance of the irony of Fate
that she, who wanted to be led, and had no
capacities for leading, should be that one ! Once
or twice it flashed across her with a thrill of
alarm that Philip might have some inkling of

what she earnestly desired to keep secret forever.
In her heart of hearts she was mortally
afraid of being laughed at by Philip ; and what
son can hear without more or less of covert
laughter that a man has been making love to
his mother? She turned these things over in
her mind while Philip tugged at the long moustache
which he had affixed to his upper lip,
while he stretched out his legs, stuck his hands
in his pockets, and debated simple propositions
with an exact reproduction of Hugh's slow and
sapient smile ; and at the end of the first act
she was as nearly being angry with her adopted
son as she had ever been in her life. Mr. Brune,
who was sitting behind her, leant over the back
of her chair, when the curtain fell, and startled
her by remarking abruptly —

And yet there are people who won't be convinced
that we are all descended from apes.'

Don't be unkind,' pleaded Margaret.

Why not ? I object to monopolies. Why
should that very clever and diverting youth
have things all his own way ? '

I know what you mean ; but it isn't meant
for unkindness. There is nothing; in it that
could hurt any one's feelings.'

Hem ! I am not sure that Kenyon would
quite agree to that. However, he is not here,
so we need not trouble ourselves about him.

Let us be charitable, and assume that he would
like it. For my part, I admit that I am
enjoying it hugely.'

Then don't call people apes,' said Margaret.

Apes are very cheerful little beasts, and
some of us, you know, make great pets of them.
I will say, for yours, that he is an admirable
specimen of the race.*

Margaret sighed impatiently. ' I thought
you had given up saying disagreeable things
about Philip. You know how it pains me to
hear you talk like that.'

You ouo;ht not to mind what a sour old
man says. Do you know that all my hops are
mildewed, and that I shall be hundreds of
pounds out of pocket by the end of the year ?
Let me have a little latitude of speech for one
evening. Philip can't hear me, any more than
Kenyon can hear him ; and I am speaking to a
lady who is not easily prejudiced. Do you
remember how desperately I offended you by the
language I used about your protege on the first
evening of his arrival, ever so long ago?'

Yes, I remember ; why do you remind me
of it ? I thought you very unkind and unjust ;
and I still think that you were so.'

I dare say I was. Partly so, at all events;
for I certainly should not accuse our young
friend of lacking courage now-a-days. I wonder,

though — speaking quite in the abstract, you
understand — whether it is possible for a first-rate
actor to be a thoroughly honest and straightforward
man. Don't come down upon me with
Macready and "other honoured names, please;
there must be exceptions to every rule ; and,
besides, honesty is a relative term. I know
many highly respected and respectable persons
whom it would be unsafe to take literally ; they
couldn't be absolutely candid if their lives depended
upon it.'

I don't know what you are driving at,'
said Margaret, who, however, knew perfectly
well.

I am not driving at anything ; I am drifting
agreeably upon a sea of doubt and speculation.
Given a man with an extraordinary power of
personating characters differing from his own,
wouldn't it be rather a strange thing if he never
made use of it off the stage ? '

If you mean Philip, I can only say that he
is always candid with me,' declared Margaret,
with some audacity.

Ah, you won't stay in the regions of the
abstract. Well, you ought to know whether
Philip is candid or not. As for me, I am only a
spectator ; and perhaps I don't see so much of
the game as I fancy I do. He is not particularly
candid with me ; but then a man does not

forfeit his claim to straightforwardness by exercising
a little reserve towards individuals.
Moreover, he doesn't like me.'

That is entirely your own fault,' Margaret
was going to say ; but she bethought her that, if
matters turned out according to her wishes, Mr.
Brune would some day be asked to accept
Philip as his son-in-law ; so she substituted : ' I
am sure you are mistaken. He may be a little
afraid of you, perhaps ; many people are, you
know.'

Probably there is no man living who is not
secretly pleased at being told that he is feared.
Mr. Brune smiled, and remarked that he had
not supposed himself so alarming. Then the
curtain rising upon the first scene of the second
act put a stop to conversation, and Margaret
returned to contemplation of the figure upon the
stage which interested her the most. Philip's
excellent mimicry of Colonel Kenyon provoked
her no longer ; she had fallen into a fresh train
of thought, in which Hugh had no part ; and
while the plot of the comedy was unfolding
itself, she was wondering whether the open-mouthed
adoration with which Philip was
regarding Nellie could be altogether assumed.

He had told her emphatically that he was
not in love with Miss Brune ; but he had given
her to understand that he was not in love because

he did not deem it prudent to allow himself to be
so, and that seemed almost tantamount to a confession
that only prudence held love in check.
Moreover, notwithstanding the assertion which
she had just made that Philip was always candid
with her, Margaret very well knew that she did
not possess his whole confidence. She was
sometimes tormented by terrible fears on his
behalf. He had no vices, she thought — for
extravagance cannot fairly be called a vice — but
it is not always vicious men who make the most
hopeless shipwreck of their lives ; and, oddly
enough, one of the chief dangers which she
dreaded for him was precisely that which those
who took a less partial view of his character
would have declared him utterly unlikely to
incur — that of a hasty marriage with some one
inferior to him in rank. Philip's character, like
that of most people, was marked by some apparent
inconsistencies, and, also like that of most
people, presented but few traits upon which any
plausible theory of his fate could be built. One
certain thing about him was that he would
never be the victim of a hopeless passion. It
was not in his nature to love those by whom he
was not beloved, and on the other hand it was
so delightful to him to be worshipped that he
was likely to fall, at least for a time, completely
under the dominion of the worshipper, whoever

he or she might be. Thus much Margaret
understood ; though she did not put the case to
herself quite in these words. She would have
substituted generosity, impulsiveness, and quick
sympathies for the vanity and selfishness with
which some of his intimates credited him ; but
the peril remained the same ; and it was, among
other reasons, because she discerned it that she
so anxiously desired to make use of Nellie
Brune as a beacon to divert Philip's eyes from
the flickering will-o'-the-wisps that flank the
path of all young men. It must be added that
she conscientiously believed this fate to be an
entirely honourable and blissful one for Nellie,
whom she looked upon in some sort as her
daughter, and loved with all her. heart.

If the young lady who was thought worthy
of being entrusted with such high responsibilities
had been in the secret of Mrs. Stanniforth's
scheme, she could have done no more towards
the promotion of it than she was doing that
evening. Everybody agreed that Miss Brune
was charming. ^ She has been well coached,'
said her father, who hardly recognised Nellie in
the brilliant and witty woman of the world
whom she represented; but Philip, who admired
all pretty women, and had always admired this
one excessively, declared openly that she was
irresistible, and told her in so many words that

he wished to goodness he could summon some
benevolent fairy to convert their mock destinies
into a reality. More than once in the course of
the proceedings he said to himself that if Nellie
had had a large fortune, and if Fanny had
married the green grocer, as she ought to have
done — if, in short, he had not been an unlucky
beggar with whom all things went askew — he
could have wished for no happier lot in life than
that fictitious one which was his for a couple of
hours.

There had always been a sort of intermittent
flirtation between Philip and JS^ellie. During
his school days the former had been over head
and ears in love with the pretty little tomboy
who used to ride and fish and play cricket with
him, and he had plainly declared his intention
of making her his wife some day — an arrangement
which she had promised to consider of.
Later on, when Mr. Marescalchi had fallen
under the sway of other feminine influences, his
affection had assumed a more brotherly character,
and he had been wont to make Miss Brune the
confidante of the passions which had from time
to time ravaged an inflammable heart. He had,
however, been in the habit of returning to his
loose allegiance at regular intervals, and had
frequently given Xellie to understand that,
despite some passing infidelities, there was but

one woman in the world with whom he coukl
seriously contemplate spending his life. Xellie
took these periodical fits of devotion very much
for what they were worth. To the best of her
belief she was not at all in love with Philip, and
her eye were open to all his failings; but she
had a strong affection for him, she wss proud of
what she considered her influence over him, and
upon the whole she liked him better when he
was pretending to be in love with her than
when he was pretending to be in love with someone
else. She understood him sufficiently well
to be aware that with him nearly all emotion
was pretence, of a conscious or unconscious
kind.

To-nio'ht he was in one of his most lover-like
moods. When the theatricals were over
and dancing had begun, he publicly laid down
the unreasonable proposition that those who had
been united in the play which was at an end
ouo-ht to remain partners for the rest of the
evening* ; and before the dissentient groans
which responded to him had died away he had
passed his arm round Miss Brune's waist and
whirled her off, whispering, 'Just for this one
evenings Xellie. You owe me some reward,
you know, for all the trouble I have taken to
help on your triumph.'

Nellie laughed, and did not say ' Xo.' There

was no one else present whom lie particularly
cared about dancing with, and Philip was beyond
all comparison the best waltzer in the
county. So, through three consecutive dances,
this couple enjoyed an uninterrupted tete-a-tete^
while Margaret looked on with contented eyes,
and good-natured people remarked what a
handsome pair they were, and ill-natured ones
wondered what Mr. Brune could be thinking
of to allow that sort of thing.

Meanwhile the member for Blackport was
not in his usual state of happy acquiescence in
the course of events. He had danced once with
Edith, who had said ' Yes ' and ' No,' and ' Oh,
really ? ' when he had addressed her, and who
evidently had not heard one word in ten of his
conversation. He had then resigned her to
Walter Brune, and had stood with his back
against the wall, wrapped in somewhat sombre
reflection. He began to think that, after all,
Edith would hardly do. She was a sweet girl,
and she had a pretty face, and that little, timid
air of hers was attractive enough for a time; but
she was not interesting: perhaps she was a trifle
insipid. Just as he arrived at this conclusion
he caught sight of her engaged in animated discourse
with Walter, and, for the first time in
his life, he experienced an uncomfortable impression
that he was growing old. After which

VOL. I. X

he glanced at Philip and Nellie, and felt older
still. Finally he said to himself, rather inconsequently,
that he didn't see why the young
fellows should have everything their own way,
and, crossing the room with the firm stride of
decision, planted himself in front of Miss Brune.

May I be honoured with a dance ? ' he
asked.

Fortune favours the brave. Nellie hesitated
for a moment, looked him straight in the face,
and then gave a little bow. What she meant
him to understand was that he had no business
to make such a request ; but that, since he had
thought fit to make it, she would not be rude
enough to meet him with a refusal; but it is
doubtful whether he gathered so much as that
from her face.

^ I was afraid,' said he, after he had twice
made the circuit of the room, and his partner
had signified to him that she was out of breath,
^ that you would dismiss me with ignominy. I
wasn't quite sure whether our truce was to last
lip to bedtime, or to terminate when the curtain
fell.'

During the rehearsals, when Mr. Stanniforth
had been compelled to meet his implacable foe
every day, it had been agreed between them that,
for the comfort of all concerned, it would be
best that they should behave as friends for the

time being, and out of this convention had
sprung a considerable degree of intimacy which
!Nellie now felt that it would be rather absurd
to put a stop to.

'You seem determined to reopen that disagreeable
subject,' she said.

I ? Indeed, ]\Iiss Brune, I should only be
too glad to dismiss it for ever. Is it peace,
then?'

Well,' answered Nellie slowly, ^ I suppose
so. If, after all my rudeness and ill-temper,
you care to make peace with me, I don't think
I ought to refuse.'

Ah ! ' cried Stanniforth, with rather imprudent
exultation ; ' I told you we should befriends
before long.'

Belie drew up her slight figure, and looked
displeased. ' Oh, but excuse me, I said nothing
about friendship. There may be such a thing
as peace between enemies, may there not ? '

A peace of that kind is not likely to be very
durable, I am afraid. Still, it may last my time.
I don't think I shall be much longer in this
house, do you know.'

Nellie said, ' Indeed ? '

I think I shall be off in a day or two, and I
am very sorry for it. I must say so, since you
won't. Between ourselves, I fancy that Margaret
wants to get rid of me.'

X 2

^ Why should she wish that ? '

'Ah, that is exactly what I should like to
know ; but I'm afraid there isn't much doubt as
to the fact. Until about a week ago she was
always begging me to stay on till the autumn ;
and, to tell you the truth, I had made up my
mind to be persuaded, and had got down a lot
of blue-books and reports to work at in the intervals
of idleness ; but latterly there has been
a sort of awkwardness and constraint. I don't
know what it is all about, I'm sure ; only
this morning, when I threw out a feeler by
remarking casually that I thought I should have
to be moving on next week, she expressed no
consternation at all.'

How mortifying ! ' exclaimed Nellie, unable
to repress a slightly malicious laugh at the sight
of his honest, puzzled face. ' And so the bluebooks
will have to be packed up again.'

It looks like it. I am not fond of thrusting
myself upon people who don't want my
company.'

I am sure that is the last thing you would
ever be guilty of,' said Nellie, demurely.

You are very severe. Miss Brune. Happily,
1 am in a position to heap coals of fire upon your
head. Do you know that your father has just
given me an invitation to stay at Broom Leas,
and that I have declined it? I don't mind telling

you that it was a great sacrifice. You may guess
why I made it.*^

Nellie was a good deal taken aback and much
more ashamed than the occasion warranted. ' I
don't think that it could be much of a sacrifice,'
she said ; \ for you would be bored to death with
us ; but I should be very sorry indeed if I
thought that anything 1 had said or done could
make you imagine that you would not be welcome.
Besides,' she added, ' I could easily go
away. I have an aunt in Devonshire with whom
I always spend a fortnight in the summer, and
I know she can take me at any time.'

That,' said Mr. Stanniforth gravely, ' is very
considerate of you. Only, I think that if you
were away from Broom Leas, I shouldn't much
care about going there.'

A sudden shock of alarm sent the blood into
Nellie's cheeks. Was it possible that the pertinacious
friendliness of her hereditary enemy
could be explained upon another and a less
agreeable hypothesis than that of abstract philanthropy?
In an instant she had dismissed the
notion as ridiculous, and had inwardly laughed
at herself for having entertained it. Still, it left
her a trifle ill at ease.

Of course it would never do,' she answered
hurriedly ; ' it would look so odd. You would
be very uncomfortable too ; for there would be

nobody to look after the house and see that you
had eatable dinners.'

And I am so particular about my dinner
Mr. Stanniforth remarked.

So that, if you should change your mind,'
continued Nellie, opening and shutting her fan
nervously — ' I mean, if you really wished to see
something of farming and to spend some days
with my father — I hope you would not allow me
to stand in your way.'

The invitation was not an over-cordial one ;
but Tom Stanniforth appeared to be quite satisfied
with it.

I'll tell you what,' he said; ' I wouldn't go
straight from this to you, because you have all
of you really had enough of me for the present;
and I believe, too, that I ought to run down and
see my father, who is getting to be a very old
man, and who writes rather plaintively about his
loneliness every now and then; but if you would
have me for a day or two in September, I should
enjoy it of all things. Without any humbug,
I am anxious to get some hints about farming.
I have a property of my own, upon which I
mean to settle down one of these fine days,
and I am ashamed to say that, at present, if I
know oats from barley it is about as much as I
do.'

^Yery well,' said Nellie, smiling; When we

shall expect yon at harvest-time. Perhaps it
might amuse you to see a harvest home.'

Thank you very much indeed,' answered
Mr. Stanniforth with alacrity ; ' that will be the
very thing.*

It was thus that the traditional hospitality
of the Brunes triumphed over prejudice, subdued
animosity, and was in the sequel productive of
much trouble to Mrs. Bennington and others.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

London : Printed EY

SPOTTISWOODE AXD CO., New-street SQTJAIiB

AXD PAUHAMEXT Street

^m^

.-~ !S^\ ./■•

,^.,^,^^^J»j^f:

'-j'^iftM^

V

m#

■^'^^^5^1

''CkS-

j^^C

'•(Cy^yf'-

P^:<

<^-^m

-mV:

III "

3 0112 052949283

i >» iK^i ^ f^ t , i t i t%iitf ^jttatii^

'*i»n^

KoNewThiNc

5:^

BY

W. E. NOEEIS

AUTHOR OF-matrimony' 'MADEMOISELLE DE MERSAC' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. II.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[All rights reserved

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/nonewthing02norr

V, 9^

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER Page

XIII. MR. BRUNE GETS HIS HARVEST TS . . . . I

XIV. PHILIP IN A New PART 29

XV. MRS. WIX^'IXGTON RECEIVES A SHOCK . . . 48

XVI. MATERNAL Influence 72

XVII. NELLIE SPENDS AX EXCITING DAT . .' . . 95

XVIII. PHILIP GOES INTO SOCIETY 122

XIX. SIGNORA TOMMASINI 150

XX. FREE 177

XXI. TWO FLATTERING OFFERS 204

XXII. MRS. PROSSER's SENSE OF DUTY . . . .229

Lxiii, PHILIP AT FLORENCE 259

XXIV. LETTERS AND TELEGRAMS 281

XXV. CONSULTATIONS 303

CHAPTER XIII.

MR. BRUNE GETS HIS HARVEST IN.

Mrs. Winnington had not lived for a matter of
sixty-odd years in the world without having acquired
a measure of philosophy. Experience
had not, perhaps, taught her wisdom, but it had
ofiven her some knowledge of the nature of men
and things, and it had dowered her with a certain
dogged patience, which enabled her to put a
good face upon temporary checks. When,
therefore, Tom Stanniforth left Longbourne
without making any declaration of his sentiments
with regard to Edith, she did not for a
moment give way to despair. Love at first
sight was, as she was aware, an exceptional
phenomenon and one which could not be counted
upon as likely to occur in any individual case ;
nor indeed had Mrs. Winnington, in her most
sanguine moods, expected to bring matters to

VOL. II. B

a crisis within the space of a few weeks. So
speedy a success would have been a rare stroke
of fortune, just as it would be a piece of singularly
bad luck if Mr. Stanniforth, who had remained
a bachelor for more than half his life,
were to yield to other fascinations before he saw
Edith again. Mrs. Winnington accepted the
chances of the game with all the outward equanimity
of a practised player, and smiled sweetly
upon her prey as she bade him good-bye, cordially
re-echoing his wish that they might meet
in London next spring, if not sooner. She
hoped it might be sooner, she said, and added
within herself an asseveration that it most certainly
should be ; but that this joyful reunion
was to be brought about no later than in the
following month, through the instrumentality of
Mr. Brune, was more than she bargained for,
Mr. Stanniforth not having thought it necessary
to mention the circumstance.

It is often instanced as a proof of the goodwill
of Providence towards mankind that horses,
elephants, and other domestic animals should be
ignorant of their own strength : perhaps we
ought to be no less thankful that ladies of Mrs.
Winnington's stamp seldom succeed in gauging
the measure of man's timorousness. It would
be difficult to say why Tom Stanniforth should
have been afraid of a fat, smiling woman who

had no hold over him and could do him no possible
injury ; but the fact remains that he was
so, and that, knowing what her wishes were,
and having very nearly made up his mind not to
gratify them, he drew a long breath of relief as
soon as he had escaped from her presence.

Far, however, as that mature strategist was
from being dismayed, she was a little disappointed
and somewhat out of temper ; and when
Mrs. Winnington was out of temper those about
her fared sadly. For several days she made the
lives of the inhabitants of Longbourne a burden
to them ; after which she discovered that the
state of her health absolutely required three
weeks of Homburg, where, as she had seen by
the papers, the fashionable world which her soul
loved was at that time largely represented.

It is a ruinously expensive journey,' she remarked
to Margaret. ' Of course we shall travel
like the paupers that we are, going straight
through, and engaging a couple of rooms on the
second floor of some horrible little pubic-house
when we arrive. I am sorry for poor dear
Edith's sake that everything will be so uncomfortable
; still I feel that it is a positive duty to

o-O.'

Mrs. Stanniforth did not accompany the
travellers to Germany. Her share in the expedition
was confined to the defrayed of its cost

and to telegraphing to secure suitable lodging
for her mother and sister at their journey's end.
As the waters promptly brought the gout out of
the former lady's system, and had the effect of
keeping her (as she wrote) ' upon the flat of her
back in screaming agonies ' for ten days, it maybe
presumed that Miss Winnington had a bad
time of it. Happily, however, the workings of
human affairs are such that what is one person's
loss is very commonly another's gain ; and if
Edith had to pass through a period of vicarious
martyrdom, those whom she had left behind herat
Longbourne enjoyed, by way of compensation
a brief taste of the blessings of peace.

Philip, who was much in ISTellie's society at
this time, declared to her that he had never
been so happy before in his life. * All things
considered,' said he, ' I am inclined to think
that nothing suits me like domesticity. Meg
and I lead a sort of Darby and Joan life, and we
enjoy it prodigiously. We don't talk much; for
there is an unspoken agreement between us to
avoid all mention of absent friends and other
unpleasant topics ; we sit beaming at one another
and hugging ourselves in a sybaritish
contentment. She is very busy, as she always
is, in a quiet, leisurely sort of way, with her
correspondence and her charities and what not;
and I twirl my thumbs and watch her, which is

delightful. Did you ever notice what a soothing
kind of person Meg is to watch ? She is never
in a hurry ; she doesn't upset things, or catch
her drapery upon corners of the furniture, and
her dress doesn't accompany all her movements
with a maddening swish-swish, like the dresses
of some ladies whom we know. I should doubt
whether there is another woman in the world so
pleasant to live with as Meg. She never rubs
you the wrong way ; she never asks you
whether you would like this or that ; she
knows by intuition what you want, and there it
is always at your elbow.'

She spoils you,' said Nellie.

Just so ; and if there is a thing I love it is
being spoilt. I should like to go on existing in
this way to the end of my days.'

It wouldn't be good for you,' said NelHe,
shaking her head wisely.

Don't you think so ? Perhaps you are
right. Nice things never are good for one, and
no doubt a little bracing is expedient from time
to time. Well, we shall all be braced soon,
when Mrs. Winnington comes back with renewed
vigour to tell us about all the dukes and
duchesses whom she has encountered at Homburg,
and to ask me whether I have yet decided
upon some means of making an honest livelihood.
There is no complaint so tantalising as

the gout. It is for ever threatening terrible
things, but somehow or other it won't proceed
to extremities — or rather it won't proceed beyond
them. And yet there are so many vital
points open to attack. Possibly Mrs. Winning-ton
may not possess a heart, but I know she hasa
stomach, and, considering the reckless manner
in which she often treats it, it certainly ought
not to be an invulnerable one. Still, it is borne
in upon me that she will die in a green old age,
after having worried all the rest of us into our
graves. Meanwhile, let us make the most of an
interval of calm.'

If you are so fond of a quiet life, why are
you perpetually running away from it?' asked
Miss Brune pertinently.

Business,' answered Philip. ^ I have business
sometimes, though you might not think it,
to look at me. I shouldn't go to London at this
time of year if I could help it.'

The answer was a moderately truthful one.
It was indeed a sense of duty rather than inclination
that led Mr. Marescalchi to pay occasional
flying visits to Coomassie Yilla at this season; and
although, when once he was there, the mystery
and fun of the thing pleased him well enough,
he was never sorry to return to the superior
luxuries and refinements of Longbourne. True
to her established rule of conduct, Margaret asked

no questions, thereby escaping the proverbial fate
of those who thus court deception. When Philip
remarked casually that he was going up to town
from Saturday to Monday to do some shopping
and get his hair cut, she did not remind him
that Saturday afternoon is not a favourable time
for making purchases in London, or point out
that it was physically impossible that his hair
could be any shorter than it was already. She
said nothing ; but went about her avocations
with a smiling face and an uneasy heart, telling
herself that in this she was but submitting to
the destiny of all fond and wise mothers, and
taking comfort from the lesson which experience
had taught her, that as soon as her boy got into
trouble of any serious nature, he would be tolerably
certain to come to her in order to be helped
out of it.

Thus the summer slipped quietly and imperceptibly
away. The mornings and evenings became
chilly ; the fields grew ripe for the sickle,
and patches of red and yellow began to show
themselves upon the green of the woods. Then
came harvest time and the slaughter of the partridges.
It was not until the middle of September
that Mrs. Winnington, who had proceeded
from Homburg to Switzerland (by the doctor's
orders, she averred), reappeared, bringing her
sheaves with her. She was one of those persons

who think it their duty, whenever they visit the
Continent, to encumber themselves with a store
of cheap presents for those whom they have left
behind them. It was not Mrs. Winnington's
habit to give money to the servants at Long-bourne
; there were too many of them, she said ;
and, besides, they ought not to be led to expect
tips from one of the family ; still, she should
like them to think that they had all been remembered.
Consequently, on the evening of her
return from abroad, she would sail majestically
into the housekeeper's room, bearing an ancient
leather bag, from whence issued a bountiful supply
of thimbles, Palais-royal jewellery, and the
like, while at the bottom of this cornucopia there
commonly lurked some specially hideous gift,
destined for the mistress of the house.

^ It is so difficult to choose anything that
dear Margaret will like,' Mrs. Winnington would
often say ; ' but I think one is always safe with
some little ornament for the drawing-room
table.'

Tins time, however, the drawing-room was
spared, and it was the hall that was decorated
with a loud-voiced cuckoo clock, which had been
picked up a bargain at Interlaken. The slumbers
of the entire household were disturbed by the
periodical hooting of this delightful acquisition
up to two o'clock at night, when it triumphantly

gave forth its note thirty-six consecutive times;
after which it suddenly ceased from troubling,
and the weary had rest. Nothing would induce
it to resume its labours on the folio win o^ morning,
and suspicions of foul play rested upon various
persons ; but, fortunately, Mrs. Winnington had
come home in the best of humours, and was not
disposed to quarrel with anybody.

At breakfast she gave, as Philip had predicted
she would, a detailed description of all the
exalted personages whom she had fallen in with
at Homburg, and of how delighted they had been
to see her again, and how they had been wondering,
all through the London season, what could
have become of her, and how Lady This and
Lady That had inquired very kindly after dear
Margaret, and had said what a pity it was that
she should shut herself up so. And what made
these reminiscences so cheering was that the
great people had not confined themselves to
empty civilities.

Dear Margaret, I don't know what you will
think of me. It seems very unkind to leave you
again so soon, after having been away all this
time; but I am afraid we cannot manage more
than three weeks here at present. People laugh
at me when I say that my time is not my own ;
and they won't believe that I would far rather
remain quietly here than rush about visiting

from house to house. Of course there is this to
be said, that, for dear Edith's sake, I ought not
to drop old friends ; and with so many, you
know, it is a case of out of sight out of mind.
Very cordial and kind if they happen to meet

one ; but if they don't ' Mrs. Winnington

finished her sentence with an expressive shrug
of her ample shoulders. ' In any case, you
may count upon us for Christmas,' she added
reassuringly.

All this was very nice ; but there was a cloud
upon Margaret's brow, a certain guilty unwillingness
to meet her mother's eye, which that observant
lady could not help detecting in the
Ions: run. As soon as breakfast was over, she
took her daughter aside, and interrogated her
affectionately.

Xow, my dear child, I do trust you are not
feeling hurt at my running away from you. It
really is a matter of duty. If it were not for
dear Edith, I should ask for nothing better than
to be always with you. I am sure you must be
aware of that.'

Margaret, without intentional irony, assured
her mother that she had never entertained the
smallest doubt upon that point, and added that
she was only too glad that Edith should have
every opportunity of seeing the world and people.
Especially men. It would be a great misfortune

if she were to decide her fate, or if it were to be
decided for her, too hastily.'

Oh, my dear, I have decided nothing. Mr.
Stanniforth would be suitable in a great many-ways,
but of course I don't mean to say that she
might not do better. Indeed, I almost think
that she ought to do better, if only one were not
so cut off from all society ! But if it is not that,
what is it that is troubling you, Margaret ? I
know you have something upon your mind.'

Indeed I have not.'

Oh, but, my dear, I can see,' persisted Mrs.
Winnington. ' I'm sure that there is something.'


Xo ; at least, nothing of any importance.
I was rather astonished this morning to hear
that Tom Stanniforth had arrived at Broom Leas
last night, that is all.'

What! ' cried Mrs. Winnington, who, however
prepared she might have been to thrown.
Stanniforth over if it should seem expedient
to do so, had no idea of being thrown over by
him ; ' do you mean to say that he is actually
staying in the house, and never told you he was
coming ? Oh, I simply can't believe it ! '

I met Xellie at church this morning, and
she told me,' Margaret said. ' I was a little
annoyed about it, because I cannot understand
why Tom should not have come to this house if

he wanted to be in these parts at all ; and also
because — well, because, for many reasons, I
think it is a pity that he should have come at
this particular time. But Nellie says his appearance
was quite unexpected. Her father gave
him a sort of general invitation when he was
here before, and yesterday they got a telegram
from him in the morning, saying that he would
arrive in time for dinner, unless he heard from
them to the contrary.'

Upon my word ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Winning-ton.
And, after a short pause — ' Now I don't
want to triumph over you, dear Margaret ; I
detest people who are for ever saying " I told you
so," and I never do it myself. Still, I can't help
just reminding you — what did I always tell you
about that man ? '

I don't remember. Nothing that was not
in his favour, I am sure. I thought you had
such a very high opinion of Tom.'

No, no ; I don't mean him ; I mean that
Brune man. I am very seldom deceived in a
face, and there is a look of slyness about his
which has repelled me from the first. I warned
you that he was not to be trusted, and now you
see ! As for the otI she has been setting; her
cap at Mr. Stanniforth all along. I saw it
plainly enough, but it really did not seem worth
while to take any notice of it, particularly as I

suspected that it was almost as much a desire to
spite me as to catch him that was at the bottom
of her behaviour. And now their telegraphing
off for him on the very day of my return puts
it beyond a doubt. Oh, yes, my dear Margaret,
I know what you would say. You are so innocent
yourself that you fancy everybody else must
be like you ; but you don't know the world,
my dear, and you never will. Well, I confess
I am astonished. Ingratitude one expects; buta
deliberate, coarse insult ! — for this is nothingness
— to me there is something; more shocking,
more repulsive in vulgar-mindedness, than in
any mere external vulgarity.'

Margaret did not smile, even inwardly. If
her mother was vulgar-minded, she was unaware
of the fact, or at all events was able to shut her
eyes to it. She felt it incumbent upon her,
however, to exonerate the Brunes from the
charge brought against them, explaining that
Xellie positively disliked Tom Stanniforth, and
had gone rather out of her way to show that she
did so.

Oh, my dear child, what a stale old trick !
I should not have thought that that pretence of
a little aversion could have taken in even you.
I don't for a moment suppose that the girl has a
chance of success, but it is sickening to think
that anyone can behave in that way. Poor

Mr. Stanniforth ! don't you think it would be
as well to ask him to come on here when he gets
away from those people ? '

I would rather not,' answered Margaret
slowly. ' And, besides, I doubt whether he
could come, nellie said he was only able to
run down for a day or two, and that his object
was to see their harvest home. I suppose they
don't have harvest homes in the neighbourhood
of Manchester.'

Harvest home ! ' The depth of Mrs, Winnington's
scorn was not to be expressed in
words. ' Of course,' said she, ' we shall be expected
to attend this rustic festivity.'

I was thinking that perhaps we might make
some excuse.'

Not for the world ! They would think we
were offended, which is the very last thing one
would wish them to imagine. Xo ! you may do
as you like ; but I shall be there.'

And in the ring of Mrs. "Winnington's voice,
as she announced this decision, there seemed
ample promise that she would not be there for
nothing.

Nevertheless, when the time came, she showed
herself under no aggressive aspect, and advanced
to the attack with a great deal of affectionate
sprightliness. She herself would have said that
she was too well-bred to behave otherwise : but

the truth was that she felt no serious alarm, and
thoroughly despised her enemy. She was a
woman of very limited perceptions and could
never really believe that there were people in
the world whose tastes and opinions differed
from her own. When she encountered any
such, she usually set them down as mad or dishonest.
Xow, Mr. Stanniforth being neither the
one nor the other, it was impossible that he
should entangle himself with Nellie .Brune — a
person in whom Mrs. Winnington could see but
little to admire — when so beautiful and charming
a girl as Edith might be his for the asking.
Consequently there was no cause for agitation.
The Brunes, to be sure, had been guilty of gross
insolence, and should be duly chastised for it at
a fitting opportunity ; but this was only a matter
of detail.

The Longbourne party walked over to Broom
Leas late in the afternoon, and found Mr.
Stanniforth clad in white flannels and playing a
vigorous game of lawn-tennis with Walter and
two younger members of the Brune family,
while Xellie and her father looked on. After
the usual greetings had been exchanged, and
the chances of the rain holding; off till niojht
exhaustively discussed, Mrs. Winnington bore
down upon the culprit with ponderous playfulness.


We are very much offended with you ; we
have a great mind not to speak to you at all. Of
course we know that you must have been dreadfully
bored when you were in this stagnant neighbourhood
before ; but we did think that if anything
made you wish to return to it, you would
have given our house the preference, dull as it is.'

But I wasn't asked,' answered Tom, with a
side glance at Margaret, whose eyes were
resolutely fixed upon a noisy flight of rooks
overhead.

Oh, Mr. Stanniforth, I am afraid that
will never do ! you must really find some more
plausible excuse than that. Margaret, dear, I
am telling this very uncivil brother-in-law of
yours that we shall certainly not forgive him
unless he promises to come to us next week, and
stay until he is told to go away. She won't
listen to me. Do you know, Mr. Stanniforth, I
really believe she is a little offended. Of course
I was only in fun ; but, joking apart, I think
dear Maro^aret is the least bit in the world hurt.
She is very sensitive, and you know there are
not many people whom she is strongly attached
to. Do you think it was quite kind to comedown
and stay with comparative strangers, and
not even to let her know that you would be here ? '

Mrs. Winnington had stationed herself in
the middle of the tennis-court, and had broken

lip the game ; a circumstance which had perhaps
escaped her notice, but which would not in any
case have struck her as being worthy of attention.
The two boys had strolled away towards the
farmyard, grumbling under their breath. walter
was talking eagerly to Edith, whose colour was
coming and going, and whose countenance wore
that half frightened, half pleased expression
which Huo'h Kenyon had seen and understood
long before. Philip had joined Mr. Brune and
Xellie, and was making them laugh — doubtless
at the expense of someone near at hand.

Margaret, standing alone, and marking the
distribution of the groups, sighed softly, and
then was seized with a sudden spasm of silent
laughter. There was ooinsf to be trouble, she
thought; trouble which, when it came, would
be of a somewhat serious kind, and would
create a lasting: breach between some of those
who were now conversing together so amicably.
This was sad ; still it was impossible not to
perceive the humorous aspect of the situation.
Who could see, without a smile, four blind men
hurrying from the four points of the compass
towards the same spot ? One might sincerely
grieve for them after the crash had come, when
they had knocked their four poor skulls together,
and were reeling backwards with groans and
mutual recriminations ; but the approach, at

VOL. II. c

^

least, of the catastrophe must inevitably be
comical. Margaret, whose eyes were now open,
could afford to laugh at the blind ; though, to
be sure, it was not so very long since she herself
had been one of them. She had intended to
give her mother a hint of the possible state of
affairs as regarded Walter and Edith ; she had
intended also, at one time, to speak a few
friendly words to Walter himself on the same
subject, but her courage had failed her in both
instances ; and, for that matter, it is doubtful
whether she would have done any good by
hastening the crisis which nothing could have
warded off. ^NTow that her own vision was so
clear, she saw, or thought she saw, rather more
than Edith's blushes and Walter's absurdly
happy young face. For one thing, she saw that
Tom Stanniforth was lending a very small part
of his attention to the blandishments of his companion,
and that his eyes were never once
removed from the spot where IS'ellie stood
laughing at Philip's inaudible facetiousness.
Alas there a clue here, then, to her brother-in-law's
sudden and inexplicable interest in harvest
homes ? Upon the face of it, it seemed
in no wise improbable ; and it was when
-observation had carried her thus far that
Margaret was overtaken by the disposition
towards laughter above mentioned.

You look amused said Mr. Brune,
had approached her unnoticed. 'If you ai
thinking of anything likely to raise the spirits
of a discouraged farmer, it would be kind to
mention it. Three bad harvests in succession,
and no hops to speak of ! If this sort of thing
goes on. you will grace no more harvest homes
at Broom Leas with your presence ; or at least,
if you do, you will have another man for your
entertainer.'

Oh, don't say that ! ' said Margaret ; for,
circumstances being as they were, the prediction
struck her as somewhat ominous. ' Whatever
may happen, I hope /, at all events, may be
with you next harvest time, and for many
harvest times to come.'

Mr. Brune naturally did not follow the drift
of her thoughts. ' Oh, well,' he said, ' I daresay
I shall manage to keep out of the workhouse
for another year or two ; but you must allow
me the farmer's prescriptive right to grumble,
especially on a day of merry-making. By-the -
bye, I trust you are prepared to go without
dinner to-night, and to sit down to an indigestible
supper towards nine o'clock. Poor as one's
yield is, it takes a long time to get it in, and I
don't suppose the last waggon will enter the gates
till after sunset. Then, you know, we shall be
in duty bound to look in upon the men at their

c 2

X

supper, and to have our healths drunk and
make speeches

^ I don't think we must wait for that,' said Margaret.
^ My mother ought not to stand about in
the cold, and it is getting dusk already, and the
dew is beginning to fall. Besides, I did not say
anything to the servants about not being back
for dinner.'

The truth was that she was anxious to get
away as soon as might be. ' If we only can
avoid sudden discoveries,' she thought.

Your mother,' said Mr. Brune, ' will find a
blazing fire in the drawing-room. Suppose we
take her in there. The young people will
let us know when it is time to come out and
join in the shouting.'

It was thus that Mrs. Winnington was
spared the pain of seeing her daughter and
Walter walk slowly down the avenue, side by
side, and disappear behind the belt of larches
which separated the Broom Leas paddocks from
the road. This couple was shortly afterwards
followed by another.

Walter has gone to see them load
the last waggon, and Mr. Stanniforth wants
to go too,' said ]nellie. ' Are you coming,
Philip ? '

But Philip, mindful of the old adage as to the
relation of odd numbers to company, shook his

head, saying that he thought he would go round
to the stables and smoke a pipe. He was not
exactly jealous of Tom Stanniforth, but he
thought that good-natured, person a very great
bore. Nobody enjoys retiring into the background
to make room for others ; and Philip
perhaps disliked the sensation more than most
people. Habit, and encouragement from various
quarters, had led him to behave as though, and
almost to believe that, he had a special right to
Nellie's society. Sooner or later, of course, a
day must come when he would have to publicly
abrogate that pretension ; but in the meantime
it was pleasant to play the dog in the manger's
part, and disagreeable to be ousted from it. So
he strayed rather disconsolately about the stables
and strawyard in the grey, chilly twilight, yawning,
and saying to himself that he would not be
able to stand this sort of thing long, and that he
must positively go up to London, set to work
with old Steinberger, and begin making some
definite plans for the future. These thoughts,
together with the saddening influence of the
autumn evening, soon brought on one of his
periodical fits of depression. He saw that things
were going badly with him, and would probably
go worse ; the luck to which he commonly
trusted seemed but a broken reed to lean upon ;
and finally he fell to wondering whether, if the

worst came to the worst, lie would ever have the
pluck to cut his throat.

He had already fallen to so dismal a depth
in the process of self-communion that he was
trying, quite ineffectually, to persuade himself
that, since suicide was in itself a cowardly action,
there could not properly be said to be any
cowardice in the fear of committing it, when the
slow trampling of heavy hoofs, the creaking of
wheels, and the shouting of many voices, told
him that the term of his solitude was at hand.
These cheerful sounds came nearer and nearer,
and at length there appeared against the pale
sky a huge, dark, moving mass, crowned by
sundry indistinct human forms. As the team
was brought to a standstill a few yards from the
spot where Philip stood, other dim figures became
visible moving about the gravel drive ; Mr.
Brune and the two ladies emerged from the
house, and the boys at the top of the load struck
up a discordant chorus, in which those on terra
fir ma joined with a will —

Mr. Erie lie's a very good man,
He treats this 'esse as well as he can ;
Were once turned over and twice stuck fast,
But we've got his harvest home at last.

This qualified song of triumph, bellowed out ina
dialect which it would be difficult to reproduce
by means of any wild arrangement of vowels and

consonants, was followed by others equally to the
point, each verse beg received by a somewhat
disproportionate amount of hooraying.

Then the waggoner stepped forward, whip in
hand, and with much dignity delivered an oration,
which, like the speeches of some other
persons in a less humble rank of life, started well,
but grew unmanageable as it progressed, and would
probably never have come to an end at all if,
after the first five minutes, someone had not hit
upon the expedient of trying a little more hooray-king.
Mr. Brune made a brief response ; and with
that the proceedings,' so far as Philip and the ladies
from Longbourne were concerned, terminated,

Mrs. Winnington was quite clear and decisive
about returning home in time for dinner. She
had accomplished the object of her visit ; the
ways and habits of rustics did not interest her at
all, and to sit down to cold supper was what she
could not contemplate without shuddering. She
therefore expressed herself much gratified with
the ceremony which she had witnessed, and prepared
for departure.

Now what has become of these young people?'
she asked, peering out into the darkness
'Edith dear, are you there?'

I am here, mamma,' answered Edith, appearing
at her mother's elbow, escorted by a tall and
manly form.

Oh ! Well, I am afraid we must be going,
much as I should have liked to remain a little
looser. Dear Margaret is feeling' rather tired.
Good night, Mr. Stanniforth. I suppose we may
shake hands again now that we have made up
our quarrel,' she added, extending her hand to
Walter, who grasped it cordially, and remarked —

^ Always glad to shake hands with you, Mrs.
Winnington, though I'm not Stanniforth.'

^ Oh ! it's you, is it ? ' said Mrs. Winnington,
with a perceptible change of tone; ' I didn't see.
Where is Mr. Stanniforth, then?'

Upon my word, I can't tell you. He and
Nellie were walking; together — where was it?
Now I come to think of it, I don't believe I have
seen them since we left the field. Perhaps they
are there yet.'

What ? Then it is high time that somebody
went to look for them, 1 should think,' said Mrs.
Winnington severely.

Despite his own ill-humour, this opening was
more than Philip could withstand. ' Don't spoil
sport,' he whispered ; ' do you mean to say you
haven't noticed that the millionaire is desperately
smitten?'

^ Smitten ? What do you mean ? ' returned
the agitated lady, rising most satisfactorily. ' I
have noticed nothing: of the sort — there is nothing;
of the sort. You are always imagining something

abomin — improbable. Edith, my dear
you are coughing. And I told you so particularly
not to walk on the damp grass in your thin
boots.'

But indeed it is not at all damp,' pleaded
Edith tremulously.

Now, my dear child, what is the use of
your saying that? You are positively drenched.
If you have caught cold I shall be more than
annoyed.'

I told her she oughtn't to stand about,' put
in Walter.

Then why did you keep her out of doors? '
retorted Mrs. Bennington very snappishly.
^ Come, Edith, you must walk home briskly.'

Edith meekly obeyed; and Walter, as he
stood at the door, listening to their retreating-footsteps,
heard the careful mother's voice raised
to scolding pitch the whole way down the
avenue.

Stanniforth and Xellie heard her too. They
were not so very far off, after all, having only
strolled down to the end of the paddock to seethe
moon rise. The sky, it was true, was overcast,
and the almanac would have informed
them that there would be no moon until after
midnight ; but perhaps they had omitted to
consult the almanac. It would be hard to say
exactly why neither of them spoke or moved

when the departing visitors passed within a few
yards of them. First came Mrs. Stanniforth
and Marescalchi, walking quickly and in silence ;
Mrs. Winnington, breathless bat eloquent,
followed at a slower pace.

'^Be so good as not to contradict me, Edith.
You never pay the smallest attention to what
I tell you ; but at least you might listen when
I am speaking. How can you possibly tell
whether you have caught cold or not? I say
that you have; and you know what an object
you are when you have a cold in your head ; besides
which, there is always the risk of inflammation
of the lungs, and you are all of you consumptive
really. However, that is not what
I mind. Now don't interrupt, please ; you
know very well what I mean ; — that is not the
only thing that I mind. When you were
younger, your running wild with these young
Brunes did not so much matter ; but you ought
to have the sense to see that it is both silly and
unladylike to keep up that sort of thing now.
Mind it does not happen again. Now don't interrupt,
Edith, because ' — &c. &c.

When distance had softened down this homily
into a mere angry buzzing, the listeners had a
little laugh.

Poor think's ! ' sho-hed Mr. Stanniforth compassionately.


Poor things ! whom do yon mean ? ' asked
Nellie. ' Poor Edith, if you like.'

^ Oh, Pm sorry for them both. The girl has
the worst of it now, I grant yon ; but the tables
are sure to be turned sooner or later, and I can
imagine that it must be very aggravating to be
listened to in absolute silence, when you want
to be contradicted and have a good row and
have done with it. Mrs. "Bennington isn't a
bad old woman, you know, as old women
go.'

I should be sorry to think that there were
many like her,' said Nellie.

Oh, I don't know ; I have met worse. I
was talking to her for some time this afternoon,
and really I was rather pleased with some things
that she said. She showed a good deal more
feeling than I should have expected.'

feeling? What about?'

Well — about vivisection, if you must know,'
answered Tom with a conscious laugh ; ' but
she wasn't humbugging me ; at least I don't
think she was. I will say that for Mrs. Winnington,
that she isn't a humbug. Worldly, of
course, but honestly worldly, which is something.'


I wish I were as charitable as you are,' said
Nellie rather wistfully ; ' it must be a very
pleasant sort of sensation to like everybody.

The only drawback is that you can hardly be
able to care for any individual very much.'

I assure you you are mistaken cried Tom
eagerly.

'Ami?'

Nellie had it upon the tip of her tongue to
ask him whether he liked Edith very much, for
she was rather curious to hear what his answer
would be. But, upon the whole, she thought
better of this and held her peace.

Shall we go back to the house now ? ' she
asked presently. And, without waiting: for a
reply, she walked swiftly back across the grass,
he following her in a meditative mood.

CHAPTER Xii.

PHILIP IN A NEW PART.

If Mrs. "Winnington and her youngest daughter
had a disagreeable walk home, owing to the absolute
lack of any sympathy between them, the
couple who preceded them across the wet grass
and through the chilly mists of the autumn
evening were in no such evil case, and found
mutual solace for the troubles of life in one
another's companionship. Philip was still in a
downcast and chastened frame of mind, and at
such times he commonly felt as though Margaret
were the only true friend he had in the world ;
while she, perceiving his low spirits, and naturally
connecting them with Tom Stanniforth's
rather conspicuous attentions to Nellie, was half
sorry that he should be in trouble, half glad that
it should be the means of moving him towards a
more than usually demonstrative affection for
herself. The best love of the best women has
always something of a maternal character, and
everybody knows that a son can pay no greater

compliment to his mother than to make her the
recipient of his confidence, whether spoken or
unspoken. Margaret did not attempt any
specific kind of consolation, being too much in
dread of appearing intrusive for that ; but she
let her boy know, in a general way, that all his
emotions, pleasurable and otherwise, were shared
by her, and she further soothed him with such
delicate forms of flattery as are conveyed for the
most part by inference.

This process was so far successful that it had
the effect of warming up Philip's self-esteem,
which had fallen below freezing-point ; and it
was but natural that gratitude to so perceptive
a benefactress should make him wish to do or
say something that should be agreeable to her.
So presently he came out with —

Meg, I think I was in rather too great a
hurry to decide on cutting the Bar. I don't in
the least believe, you know, that I shall ever do
any good as a lawyer; still, as I have put my hand
to the plough, I might as well perhaps go on to
the end of the first furrow, and if my being
called was of no other use, at least it would please
you, wouldn't it?'

Of course it would please me,' cried Margaret
; ^ I can't tell you how much it would
please me. You know I wouldn't for the world
urge you to take up any profession that you

disliked ; but the fact of being called to the Bar
would not commit you to anything, and it might
perhaps lead to some appointment that might suit
you. And then — you don't mind people saying
disagreeable things about you, I dare say.'

Xot in the least, so long as I don't hear
them.'

But I am-weak-minded enough to be made
unhappy by them. And you see, I do hear them;
I can't help it. You don't know what a satisfaction
it will be to me to be able to tell one or
two solicitous friends that you have no intention
of leading an idle life.'

Poor old Meg ! ' said Philip with generous
compassion for this womanly weakness. ' All
right, then ; that's settled. In two years' time
you shall have a photograph of me in my wig
and gown with which to confound the sceptical,
and in the meantime I shall keep my eyes open,
and try to discover some less objectionable way
of earning my bread and butter.'

Margaret thanked him so warmly that he
really felt for the moment that he was performing
an act of self-sacrifice, and could not find it
in his heart to inform her of his actual projects,
as he had been very nearly doing eye minutes
before. T\liy vex her needlessly? he thought.
It was not to be expected that she would relish
the idea of seems him behind the footlights of

the opera ; and it was so pleasant to be patted
on the back and told what a good, kind fellow
he was. He began to think that he was rather
good and kind — quite as much so, at all events,
as circumstances would allow him to be ; and,
by way of showing how thoroughly in earnest
he was, he declared that he would go up to London
and ' set to work ' no later than the very next
morning.

Margaret was a little taken aback by this
precipitancy ; the more so as she recollected that
the Michaelmas Term did not begin until the
month of November. But that circumstance need
not stand in the way of private study, she reflected,
and perhaps it was best to strike while
the iron was hot. One thing, however, she felt
impelled to say : —

I hope, dear, you are not hurrying away for
any particular reason.'

Particular reason ? ' repeated Philip ; and it
was well that the darkness hid his alarmed face.

I mean, you mustn't jump to conclusions.
Tom Stanniforth is the Prunes' guest, you see,
and they must be civil to him. I suspect that,
if the truth were known, you would find that
Nellie is very anxious for his visit to come to an
end.'

Philip burst into a great laugh of relief. ' So
you thought I was going off in a fit of jealousy!

Xow, Meg, I do think you might have known
me better. Am I ever jealous? Do I ever covet
my neighbour's house, or his wife, or his ox, or
his ass, or anything that is his? There is only
one person in the world about whom I have ever
felt jealous, and that is yourself. There used to
be a time when I was horribly afraid that you
would end by marrying the trusty Kenyon.'

Then,' said Margaret, who now, in her turn,
had reason to be grateful to the darkness — ' weare
quits ; for you might have known me better
than to think that of me.'

Philip left Longbourne, the following morning,
in a condition of comfortable self approval,
and no presentiment of the circumstances under
which he was next to see the old place occurred
to cast a gloom over his excellent spirits.

Where shall I write to you? ' Margaret asked,
as he climbed into the dog-cart that was to take
him to the station.

Oh! the Club, as usual,' he answered.

He had never been in the habit of giving any
other address than this, and, since he had become
the tenant of Coomassie Villa, had often blessed
the lucky chance which had preserved him from
a less cautious custom. Margaret knew that he
sometimes went to an hotel,'some times to rooms,
and had not cared to ask for more precise information
upon the subject.

VOL. IL D

Now although there was no particular reason
of the kind that Mrs. Stanniforth had imagined
to hasten Philip's departure, there was an approaching
event which rendered his presence in
London at this juncture, if not essential, at least
desirable and becoming. On his arrival at
Coomassie Villa he found Mrs. Webber (the
Aunt Keziah to whom it may be remembered
Mrs. Marescalchi had once made reference as the
sole representative of her kith and kin) in temporary
possession of the house, and exactly twenty-four
hours later a very diminutive gentleman was
added to the list of Fanny's near relations.

It seems possible that readers may not, upto
the present point, have become greatly enamoured
of Philip Marescalchi, and perhaps — with
a view towards raising him in the estimation of
an important section of them — it may be well
here to state that he proved himself a father of
the most unexceptionable description. To the
ordinary male mind an infant, both as regards
its aspect and its habits, is a somewhat repulsive
little creature. It has none of the soft prettiness
which belong to the young of the lower
animals ; it is both exacting and ungrateful ; and
the utter helplessness which is supposed to endear
it in a special degree to one of its parents seldom
arouses a corresponding sentiment in the breast
of the other. Philip, however, was an exception

to the general rule. From the first he manifested
an immense interest in and affection for his baby,
which was indeed an unobjectionable specimen of
its kind, being neither red nor uproarious, but a
tiny, waxen-faced thing which passed the best
part of its days and nights in profound slumber.
He purchased for it a cradle so lovely that Mrs.
Webber threw up her hands in mingled admiration
and dismay at the sio;ht of it : and beside
this expensive toy he should sit contentedly hour
after hour, endeavouring by means of various
expedients to attract the attention of its inmate,
who would occasionally reward his efforts with
a tipsy sort of smile.

Most ladies will be disposed to think that
there must have been some good in a man who
could so conduct himself ; and it is possible that
they may be right. Philip himself was a good
deal puzzled and diverted by his own state of
mind, and would often laugh gently at himself
with that good-humoured indulgence which was
bis normal attitude in moments of introspection.
He had no idea of shaping any particular course
in life for himself, or of steering by the light of
any fixed principle or set of principles ; he liked
to let things happen to him, and to watch the
results ; and when these took unexpected forms,
as they often did, he was interested, and sometimes
greatly tickled. This experience of family

life and paternity had for him the charm of
novelty mingled with a certain spice of unreality.
He never forgot that he could escape from it all
whenever it might please him to do so, and return
to practical bachelorhood and the society of
his equals, and in that knowledge lay, perhaps,
the explanation of the fact that he was quite
satisfied to remain where he was. And he was
really fond of poor little Fanny, who was recovering
very slowly, and upon whom feebleness and
her newly-acquired matronly dignity had exercised
a softening and refining influence. After
a time, when she was able to leave the house,
Philip used to hire an open fly, and take her out
for drives, through miry lanes and byways, into
the country, where they were as secure from recognition
as in the heart of Central Africa, and
where creeping mists, and falling leaves, and the
pale light of watery sunsets affected her simple
happiness with no chilly warning of change.
Long afterwards Philip sometimes looked back
upon those days with an aching feeling at his
heart and a sigh over ' circumstances,' which he
has always blamed, and always will blame, for
the various misfortunes that have fallen to his
lot.

Fanny's love and admiration for her husband
knew no bounds. She was firmly convinced,
and would frequently declare, that there was no

one like him in the world — no one so kind, so
unselfish, so uncomplaining. ' And to think of
him living like this, after what he's been accustomed
to ! ' Fanny would exclaim, with tears in
her eyes. In truth, Coomassie Yilla, owing to
the disorganised state of the household, was by
no means a comfortable place of residence at this
time ; and if there had not been a good deal of
amiability in Philip's composition, he would
hardly have been able to tolerate Mrs. Webber,
who had taken upon herself the functions of
nurse, and who occasionally showed herself to bea
very unpleasant old person indeed.

Mrs. Webber, unfortunately, was not an
Oxfordshire rustic, who might have been overawed
by Mr. Marescalchi's gentility, but a shrewd
woman, London born and London bred, whose
husband kept a public-house in Islington, and
whose views of life and humanity were of the
coarser and more practical kind. She had never
approved of Fanny's escapade, and did not disguise
her opinion that her niece's husband was
a slippery one.*

When are yoti a-going to come forward, like
a honest man, and let this poor child have his
rights?' she asked, making: a sudden descent
upon Philip one afternoon when he was sitting
alone in the dreary little drawing-room, and
tossing the baby with a series of violent upward

jerks while she spoke. She was a tall, stout
woman with sharp, black eyes and grizzled corkscrew
curls, and she put her question in a determined
manner.

'His rights? Well, really, Mrs. Webber, I
thmk that at the present moment he may fairly
claim it as one of his rights that he should not
be made sick, as he certainly will be, if you goon
hurling him into the air as you are doing-much
longer. You can't mean to tell me that
any human being, of however tender years, can
like that mode of treatment.'

Don't you be inherent, young man. I
haven't brought up ten children of my own,
nor yet I haven't left my comfortable home
and come here to do servant's work, for you to
teach me what babies like and what they don't
like.'

Mrs. Webber, I feel that we have acted
most selfishly in keeping you so long. Let us
lose no time in eno-aoinf]: a nurse and restoring
you to your neglected family.'

Hah : make use of me so long as I'm wanted,
and then show me the door — that's it, is it?
But I'd have you to know, Philip, that I'm not
one as can be treated that way. Are you going
to do your booty by my niece? Are you a-
going to love, honour, and cherish her as your
wife, and introduce her as such to your relations?

For that is what you've swore to do at the altar,
mind you.'

It may be so ; but I do not recollect that
clause in the marriage service. In any case, the
matter is one between Fanny and me, and,
highly as I respect you, Mrs. Webber, I don't
intend to discuss it with you.'

There's two must give their word to that
bargain,' cried Mrs. Webber, with a defiant toss
of her head and of the long-suffering baby.
Now, listen to me, Philip ; I don't avant to have
no trouble ; let's sit down and talk over things
quiet, as between friends.'

Mrs. Webber, I am sorry to interrupt you,
and it grieves me to say anything of a nature to
hurt your feelings ; but there is a trifling matter
vrhich I think it best to mention to you before
wee go any further. Twice with the last five
minutes you have addressed me as "' Philip."
Don't do it again, please ; I don't like it.'

The effect of this mild remonstrance was very
remarkable. Mrs. Webber sank down upon the
nearest chair, dropped the baby upon her knees,
and began to cry.

Never did I think to be so spoke to in this
house ! Not to be allowed to call my own niece's
husband by his name ! Well, this is unkind ! '
she ejaculated between her sobs.

Philip was immensely delighted. He found

himself the richer by a new experience, and
mentally noted it down under the heading of
How to deal with the lower classes.' Finding
he was master of the situation, he proceeded, in
accordance with the rules of war, to follow up
his advantage and trample upon the fallen.

My good woman, your intentions may be
excellent; but you are meddling with matters
which are too high for you. I may in time succeed
in raising my wife to my own rank in
society ; but the process must be taken in hand
slowly and delicately. As for her relations, I
haven't married them, and it will be altogether
out of the question, I am afraid, that we should
receive them upon terms of intimacy.'

This was rather overshooting the mark.
Mrs. Webber raised her head, and snorted wrathfully.


'Intimacy, indeed!' quoth she. 'Wait till
you are asked for your intimacy. / don't want
it, nor never did. I want my niece's rights.
I'm standing up for them as won't stand up for
their selves.'

But at this juncture Marescalchi junior intervened
appositely Vvdth along-repressed howl, and
had to be carried upstairs.

Philip, left in possession of the field of battle,
stretched out his legs, whistled, sighed, and made
a dismal grimace. He was not afraid of Mrs.

AYebber compromising his future in any very
serious manner; but she certainly had it in her
power to cause him much intermittent trouble
and worry ; and that was almost as bad. He
could not help thinking how much better it would
have been if he had married Nellie Brune, and
how much — how very much better — if he had
not married at all. Then he got up, shook himself,
and walked away in the rain to his club,
where, chancing to meet an acquaintance who
was passing through town, he soon forgot all his
sorrows in a game of pyramids.

In the month of October Herr Steinberger
returned to London ; and Philip lost no time in
placing himself in the hands of that competent
professor. Steinberger, this time, was complimentary,
and more encouraging; than he had
been upon the occasion of Philip's first visit to
him.

You have a good ear,' he was pleased to say;
and the voice — well, the voice is good too ; but
you have not learnt to o'er him out. What for
you want to go upon the stage, eh? That is no
business of mine, you say.'

I don't say so at all,' answered Philip, laughing,
' and I am quite willing to tell you. I want
to make money.'

Ah — so ! It is no caprice, then. To make
money? — well, that might be. At concerts, yes;

upon the stage — perhaps.' He thought for a
moment, and then said: 'I will undertake you,
if you choose ; but only upon the condition that
you work hard, and that you sing not anywhere
in public until I gif you leaf. When you break
one of these rules I make you my bow and wish
you good morning. Is that agreed ? '

Philip consented willingly, and was then admitted
as one of Herr Steinberger's pupils upon
terms much more moderate than the great man
was in the habit of exacting from fashionable
amateurs. For several weeks the new pupil
worked as hard as could have been desired, and,
finding that he made perceptible progress, enjoyed
his work thoroughly. For in art of all kinds it
is not le premier ^j>a<s qui route ; it is the weary
second and third steps, when enough has been
learnt to show how many more must be taken
before proficiency can be reached, that discourage
the faint-hearted and the indolent. To
Philip, who was of an essentially sanguine
temperament, success seemed not only certain,
but close at hand, and he was proportionately
joyous.

At Coomassie Villa, too, things were going
pleasantly and cheerfully at this time. Aunt
Keziah had not yet returned to native Islington;
it beg essential, as she said, that she should
remain for a week or so, in order to watch the

proceedings of the nurse, to whom she had resigned
the care of the precious baby ; but she
kept herself much in the background, called
Philip ' Sir ' when she spoke to him, and was to
all appearance disposed to accept the situation in
the spirit of a sensible woman. Philip was so
much pleased by this change of demeanour that,
on the day before that fixed for her departure,
he went out and bought her a massive gold
bracelet, which peace-offering she accepted with
many expressions of humble gratitude. It presently
appeared, however, that she had not yet
said her last word.

'Before I bid you good-night, sir,' said she,
that same evening, ' I should be glad to have an
answer to the question I made so bold as to art
you three weeks ago.'

My dear Mrs. Webber, I thought I had given
you an answer at the time.'

You'll excuse me, sir, but that is just what
you did not do. And a answer I am respectfully
determined for to have.'

Oh, Aunt Keziah, please I ' — pleaded Fanny,
who was lying on the sofa, and who had become
very pink during this speech.

IS'ow, my dear, don't you dorrit yourself.
I know my booty, and your husband will see his,
if it's put to him plain. For close upon a year
I've held my tongue ; but the time has come now

for him to acknowledge you before the world, and
I mean he shall do it too.'

Philip shrugged his shoulders wearily. ' My
good Mrs. Webber, what is the use of your
bothering me in this way ? I told you before
that I must decline to discuss the subject with
you.'

Very well, sir ; then you will drive me to
take measures which it goes against me to take
them. To-morrow I write to Mrs. Stanniforth,
and I tell her the whole truth. I have her
address, you see, sir,' added Mrs. Webber, holding
up an envelope which Philip recognised.

Oho ! so you've been reading my letters,' said
he.

A speech which no gentleman would make,'
returned Mrs. Webber, with awful calmness.
No, sir; I have not read your letters, nor wouldn't
so bemean myself if it was ever so. But a envelope
is what all the world may look at.' And
indeed the envelope in question bore the words
Longbourne, Crayminster, in sufficiently large
capitals.

Philip had thought it wisest to shroud the
whereabouts of his home in mystery, but, with
his usual carelessness about matters of detail, had
left clear evidence upon the subject on his dressing
2-table.

'I suppose you know,' he remarked, 'that

there is nothing to prevent Mrs. Stanniforth
from cutting: me off with a shilliiio; whenever she
pleases.'

I don't think, sir.' answered Mrs. '\\"ebber,
smiling:, 'that she will do that.'

Well, no ; candidly speaking. I don't think
she will. She has a weakness for a certain
worthless individual, and upon that you appear
to have calculated. I may as well tell you,
though, that between forgiving me and receiving
my wife there is a vast difference. Mrs. Tannin
you must know, has a mother who lives
with her — an old lady of whom you remind mein
many respects, Mrs. Webber. She is quite as
stupid as you are, quite as obstinate, and thinks
herself quite as sharp. As a bully, she beats
you. Make her your enemy. and you mis:ht as
well try to get Fanny into heaven as inside the
doors of Longbourne, so long as she remains there ;
and she will remain there, I take it, until she dies.
Now, Mrs. Webber, I'll be perfectly frank with
you. Your writing to Mrs. Stanniforth, as you
propose, would give me about as much pain as
anything could do. Mrs. Stanniforth is in a good
deal of trouble just now. owing to various things
that have occurred — that very letter which you
are stroking your nose with was written a fcAV
days ago to tell me about them — and if this blow
comes upon her as an addition to them, I believe

it will very nearly break her heart. That would
distress me, and wouldn't do you an atom of good.
You probably know enough of your sex to be
aware that she would set you down as an interested
old schemer, and Fanny, at best, as a willing
instrument in your hands. I grant you that
she and her mother will have to make the best of
what they will consider a bad business in the
long run ; but, if you will let me manage things
in my own way, they may eventually consent to
take Fanny by the hand ; whereas, if you precipitate
matters, the chances are that they will
refuse to hear her name mentioned, and will use
their influence to get me into the Australian
police, or something of that kind. Now you can
do as you like.'

^ Maybe you are speaking the truth,' said
Mrs. Webber. ' Lord knows whether sou are
or not ; but what you say sounds like sense. I
shan't interfere without you drive me to it,' she
continued, after taking counsel with herself fora
minute or two ; ' but mind this : if ever you
take it into your head to desert my niece '

Aunt Keziah,' cried Fanny, starting up from
her couch with her cheeks aflame, ' I won't sit
here and let you talk so! How can you say such
wicked things ! You don't understand my
Philip one bit.' And she threw her arms round
her Philip's neck protecting.

He disengaged himself gently, saying, 'Lie
down again, Fan, and don't agitate yourself.
Imitate me : you see I am not agitated. Your
Aunt Keziah takes a low view of human nature ;
which is to be regretted for everybody's sake,
and especially for her own. Try, my dear Mrs.
Webber, to rise to a higher moral level, and bear
in mind that, as Fanny justly remarks, you don't
understand me one bit. That thought may
make you easier at times when you are inclined
to suspect me of being a consummate villain.
Besides, you have got the address, you know.'

'Yes; I've got the address,' said Mrs.
Webber, slapping the pocket into which she had
thrust Mrs. Stanniforth's envelope.

So that you will always have it in your
power to throw the fat in the fire. That reflection
also is likely to be a comfort to you. And
now, as there seems to be nothing more to be
said, suppose we have some of that mulled
claret which you brew so admirably, and drink
the baby's health.'

Thus Philip glided lightly away from a peril
which had frightened him more than might
have been supposed from his manner of treating
it.

CHAPTER XY.

MRS. Bennington RECEIVES A SHOCK.

During the weeks which PhiHp had spent agreeably
in perfecting himself in the parts of husband,
father, and vocalist, time had not stood still at
Longbourne. The period, indeed, had been an
unusually exciting one in the history of that
small world, and had brought about rebellions,
battles, conferences, and treaties, all of which
must now be in due course recorded.

Mrs. Winnington, whom we left administering
a well-deserved lecture to her youngest
daughter, was so little relieved by that exercise,
and so much put out by the various incidents of
the afternoon, that her temper entered upon one
of its worst and gloomiest phases ; and even the
sudden retirement of Marescalchi, which at ordinary
times would have given her great satisfaction,
drcAv nothing more from her than a passing-expression
of her utter disbelief in his purpose
of working either at law or at anything else.
Nor did she at all enjoy being left in a great,

silent house, with no one to speak to except her
two daughters, neither of whom happened to be a
person with whom it was possible to pick a
quarrel. From sheer lack of a more worthy-antagonist,
she fell foul of Mrs. Prosser upon
some point of domestic economy, and was routed
with great loss ; after which, to Margaret's infinite
distress, she took to her bed for twenty-four
hours, and sent for the doctor, who unfeelingly
ordered her to get up forthwith and go out
of doors.

Tom Stanniforth, as in duty bound, walked
up, after a day or two, to call upon his sister-in-law
; but, as ill luck would have it, Mrs. Winnington
and Edith had selected that very afternoon
to pay a round of visits, and consequently''
missed him. The elder lady's disgust at this
contretemps was not lessened by the news that
Mr. Stanniforth had been persuaded to remain
on a few days longer with the Brunes. She still
persisted in declaring to herself, as well as to
Margaret, that his visit, whether long or short,
could have no very serious consequences ; still,
having; nothing; else to think about, she allowed
herself to brood over the subject until it became
a torment to her. and at last — being; a woman to
whom inaction was unbearable — she made up her
mind to go over to Broom Leas and speak a few
words ' in a friendly way ' to Mr. Brune. The

VOL. II. E

words that had hitherto passed between her and
that gentleman had not commonly been very
friendly ones, nor was her feeling towards him
of a very friendly nature ; but that, as she
pointed out to Margaret, who ventured upon a
mild protest against her resolution, ' was not the
question.' Accordingly, she requested the use
of a carriage for the afternoon, and drove over to
Broom Leas in state, not knowing very well,
perhaps, what she was going to say when she
£tot there, but feelings that at least it would be a
satisfaction to her to be upon the spot.

That it is always well to be ' upon the spot '
was a maxim which had been frequently in Mrs.
Winnington's mouth in the course of a very
fairly successful career; and in truth it was
doubtful whether, if she had not been so palpably
and unflinchingly upon the spot, in Whitehall
and elsewhere, at certain times, her sons would
have got on as well in their several professions
as they have done.

Mrs. Wilmington was by way of being shortsighted
; but her eyes were capable of doing a
good stroke of work when any sudden demand
was made upon them ; and it so chanced that, as
the victoria in which she was seated turned
briskly in at the gates of Broom Leas, she distinctly
saw a manly form which was familiar to
lev standing at the entrance of the farmyard inclose

proximity to a small and girlish one which
she also recognised without difficulty. She saw
more than this, for she saw that she was seen ; and
she .saw worse, for she saw Mr. Stanniforth, in
the most barefaced manner, walk away and conceal
himself behind an adjacent rick. Nellie came
forward, and met her visitor at the front door.

'How do you do?' says Mrs. Winnington,
alighting slowly, and favouring Miss Brune with
a full view of the lowered eyelids and faint smile
which with her were the outward and visible
signs of an inward and heartfelt superiority.
Is your father any where about ? '

Impudent old woman ! ' thought Nellie ;
what does she mean by speaking to me as if
she had come to buy butter and eggs ? ' She said
aloud, ' Won't you come in, Mrs. Winnington ? I
don't know where my father is ; but he went outwith
his gun some time ago, and I hardly expect
him back before dark. Do you want to see him
about anything in particular ? '

Oh, no,' answered Mrs. Winnington ; * nothing
very particular. If he had been in, I
should have liked to ask him whether he had
heard anything about the Octopus being ordered
to the West African station. You know my son
has just been appointed to her as first lieutenant,
and I understood that one of your brothers had
also joined her lately.'

^ The West African station ! ' exclaimed
Nellie in consternation ; ' oli, I do hope not !
No, I am sure we had heard nothing of the kind.
When Harry wrote, he said they were to join the
Channel fleet.'

Perhaps it is not true,' said Mrs. Winning-ton,
who had in fact invented this pretext for
her call upon the spur of the moment ; ' there
are always so many absurd rumours going about.
As you have heard nothing, it probably is not
true. No, I won't go in, thank you ; but, since
I am here, I Avill just take a turn round the
garden with you, my dear, if you can spare mea
few minutes. I should be rather glad of the
opportunity of saying something to you which —
which, in fact, I think you ought to be told.'

Nellie opened her eyes rather wide. Never
before had she been called ' my dear ' by Mrs.
Winnington, and her imagination failed to
suggest to her any clue to the significance of this
portent.

How neat and tidy your lawn always is ! '
said Mrs. Winnington graciously. ' That is the
advantage of a small garden. Now at Long-bourne
we find that it is next to impossible to
keep the grounds in decent order at this time of
year. The mere sweeping up of the leaves
takes three men all their time from morning tonight.'


They must be three very lazy men remarked
Nellie, who knew as well as anybody how much
could be accomplished in a fair day's work. She
could not refrain from adding, ^ There is very
nearly as much turf here as at Longbourne.'

'You don't say so! Well, I'm sure your
gardener deserves every credit. And I notice
that you always manage to have a few flowers,
too, to make the place look bright. But perhaps
Mr. Brune takes an interest in flowers. One so
often, sees the garden quite neglected in houses
where there is no mistress ; and that is such a

There is a mistress in this house,' said Nellie
shortly.

To be sure there is, my dear,' rejoined Mrs.
Winnington, patting her on the shoulder quite
affectionately; 'but she is a very young mistress,
and not a very experienced one. I ought not,
perhaps, to have used the word mistress ; I was
thinking rather of houses where there is no
mother''

As far as gardening goes, I don't see why
there being no mother should make any great
difference,' observed Nellie. (what in the
world is she driving at ? I hope she'll come to
the point before I lose my temper and say something
rude')

Mrs. Winnington had her point quite clearly

before lier eyes, and, having executed these
cumbrous preliminary cu-clings in the air, was
now ready to swoop down upon it.

As far as gardening goes ! ' she said. ' But,
unfortunately, there are many other ways in
which the loss of a mother is an irreparable one.'
Nellie thought that, in the case of some people
whom she knew, there might be considerations
which would go far towards mitigating the bereavement
alluded to ; but she had the self-restraint
to abstain from saying this : and Mrs.
Winning ton proceeded.

I am so averse to anything that might have
the appearance of meddling that 1 generally
prefer to remain silent, even when I feel that a
word in season might be of real service ; but
the question is whether that motive for silence is
not really a wrong and selfish one — whether one
ought not to think only of doing one's duty to
one's neighbours — to point out to people when
they make themselves ridiculous.'

As you would they should do unto you,'
put in Nellie, whose patience was fast ebbing
away. ' If you don't mind my telling you in
what way you seem to me ridiculous, Mrs.
Winnington, I can't object to letting ^^ou do as
much for me.'

^ My dear, you must remember the difference
in our ages. It Avould be hardly becoming in

you to call me ridiculous, even if I were so ;
and that is just one of those things which a mother
would enable you to see.'

I suppose it would be no use to try and
stop you, Mrs. Winnington, but I may as well
tell you beforehand that, so long as my father
does not consider me ridiculous, I shall not
trouble myself in the least about what you, or
anybody else, may happen to think of me.'

'Ah!' said Mrs. Wilmington, 'that is just
the spirit in which I expected to be met. That
is exactly the sort of speech vrhich a motherless
girl would be sure to make. You do not understand
now, though you will understand some
day, that no one can afford to fly in the face of
society. In the present instance your father
would naturally be the last man in the world to
hear what people are saying about you.'

And what are people saying about me ? ^
asked Nellie, stopping short and facing ]airs.
Winnington, who, however, continued her slow
progress across the lawn.

Well, I must say that I blame your father
a little; it is partly his fault. When one has a
daughter of your age, one cannot be too particular,
and he has been, to say the least of it, thoughtless.
I should be sorry to hurt your feelings ; but it
is best to tell the truth, and you know one cannot
follow up a rich bachelor in that persistent

way without setting people's tongues going. 1
would not for one moment insinuate that either
you or your father knew what you were doing ;
and as for Mr. Stanniforth, I think I may
confidently say on his behalf that he would be
very much amused at the idea of his name being
coupled with yours. Still the fact remains that
he is staying at your house, instead of at Long-bourne.'


Xellie was too furious to do more than
ejaculate ' Oh!' under her breath.

Of course,' continued her companion benevolently,
' it does not matter to him ; but I
know so well what is invariably said in these
cases. It is the poor girl who is pitied and
laughed at, and '

Thank you ; that will do,' interrupted
Xellie, who had now found her tongue. ' My
Mends know perfectly well that I would die
rather than marry anyone of the name of
Stanniforth ; and as for other people, it makes
no difference to me what they say. It might
amuse Mr. Stanniforth to hear his name coupled
with mine ; but I assure you it would not amuse
me at all. Impertinent and false things are said
about everybody, I suppose : what I cannot
understand is that anyone should have the
courage to repeat them to the person of whom
they are said.'

Xellie was quite aware that, having thus
delivered herself, she would best consult her
self-respect by saying no more ; but feminine
nature got the better of her, and, after a short
and sharp struggle, she added: ' You need not beat
all alarmed, Mrs. Winnington. Rich as Mr.
Stanniforth is, he does not exactly belong to the
class into which our family has been accustomed
to marry.'

Why, my good girl,' cried Mrs. Winnington
quite unaffectedly and coarsely, ' your mother was
only a banker's daughter!'

There was thus a momentary risk of this
interview coming to an end in a deplorably
vulgar manner ; but happily both combatants
saw the danger, and controlled themselves. Mrs-bennington
left rather hastily, but without
further loss of dignity, and was upon the whole
very well satisfied with the afternoon's vrork.
Had this rather dull-witted woman been a female
Machiavelli, she could hardly have played her
cards more adroitly, or have taken more certain
means of gaining her end, than she had done ;
but, as a matter of fiict, no credit for successful
diplomacy was due to her upon this occasion.
It would never have occurred to her to rescue
her intended prey by stirring up Miss Brune's
pride, because it would never have occurred to
her to suppose that that young lady could have

any pride — a luxury in which, according to Mrs.
Winnington's notions, only the noble and wealthy
could afford to indulge. In speaking as she had
done, she had been actuated simply and solely by
an amiable wish to make the girl uncomfortable.
She had herself been made somewhat uncomfortable
by Stanniforth's walking behind that haystack
under her very eyes and by Nellie's virtual
participation in this affront ; and her desire had
been to retaliate without delay, and further tolet
the young woman understand that, whoever
might win or lose the prize, it would assuredly
not fall to her share. She flattered herself that
she had succeeded in both of these noble aims.
As for Miss Brune's indignant repudiation of a
possible alliance with any Stanniforth whatever,
she took that for what she considered it to be
worth. The impertinence of it had made her
rather angry for the moment ; but, as the thing-could
obviously have been only said with a view
to impertinence, it was hardly worth remembering.
The important point was that Mr. Tannin
was not likely to be pressed to postpone
his departure a second time, and that in a day
or two he would be restored to his anxious friends
at Longbourne. After that, Edith must be
made to bestir herself more, and perhaps it might
even be well that something in the nature of a
conditional engagement should be entered upon

before he left. It will be perceived that Mrs*
Bennington herself was not overburdened by
any foolish pride.

When she reached home she found the
drawing-room and library untenanted, Margaret
and Edith having, it was to be presumed, gone
out for a walk. Xow it was a habit of Mrs.
Winnington's, whenever she found the house
empty, to prowl all over it, peeping into blotting-books,
opening drawers, occasionally going so far
as to read letters that might be lying handy,
and — as Mrs. Prosser, who hated her with a
perfect hatred, would say — ' poking and rummaging
about as any under-housemaid that I caught
at such tricks should be dismissed immediate, and
no character given.'

It is probable that Mrs. Winnington saw no
harm at all in such poking and rummaging.
Her daughters, she would have said, had no
secrets from her, or at all events ought not to
have any. Xor had she any particular end to
serve in entering other people's bedrooms. For
some occult reason it gave her pleasure to do so,
and the present occasion being favourable for
the gratifying: of her tastes, she proceeded to
profit by it. First she made a thorough examination
of all the reception rooms ; then she went
upstairs, and spent some time in overhauling the
contents of Margaret's wardrobe ; and then she

passed on to the room at that time occupied by
Edith, which opened out of a long corridor where
the family portraits had hung in the days when
the owners of Longbourne had possessed a
family to be thus commemorated. This corridor
had a peculiarity. It terminated in a small
gallery, resembling a theatre-box, or one of those
pews which are still to be met with in a few old-fashioned
churches, whence you looked down
upon a curious apse like chamber, tacked on to
the house by a seventeenth-century Brune for
some purpose unknown. It may have been intended
to serve as a theatre, or possibly as a
private chapel: of late years it had fallen into
disuse, being a gloomy and ill-lighted apartment,
and was seldom entered by anybody, except by
the housemaids who swept it out from time to
time. Some one, however, was in it now. sirs.
Winnington with her hand on the lock of her
daughter's door, was startled by the sound of
voices arising from that Quarter, and it was a
matter of course that she should at once make
her way along the passage as stealthily as might
be, and peer over the edge of the gallery to see
what might be going on below.

She arrived in time to witness a scene so
startling that she very nearly put a dramatic
finish to it then and there by falling headlong-over
the balustrade, which was a low one. Upon

an ottoman directly beneath her, her daughter
Edith was sitting in a very pretty and graceful
attitude, her elbow resting on her knee and her
face hidden by her right hand, while her left was
held by Walter Brune, who was kneeling at her
feet. And this is what that audacious young
reprobate was saying, in accents which rose towards
the roof with perfect distinctness: —

Now, my darling girl, you must not allow
yourself to be so cowed by that awful old mother
of yours. There! I beg your pardon: I didn't
intend to speak disrespectfully of her, but it came
out before I could stop myself. What I mean is,
you mustn't let her bully you to that extent that
you aren't call your soul your own. Stand upto
her boldly, and depend upon it she'll knock
under in the long run. When all's said and done,
she can't eat you alive.'

The feelings of the astounded listener overhead
may be imagined.

Ah, you don't understand,' sighed Edith.
It is easy enough for a man to talk of standing
up for himself; but you don't consider how
different it is with us.'

But I do understand — I do consider,' declared
Walter, scrambling up to his feet. ' I
know it's awfully hard upon you, my dearest ;
but wouldn't it be harder still to marry some
decrepid old lord to please your mother, and to be

miserable and ashamed of yourself for the rest of
your life ? '

At this terrible picture Edith shuddered
eloquently.

So you see if s a choice of evils continued
the young man. ^ Some people, I know, would
think it was a great misfortune for you that you
should have come to care for a poor beggar like
me ; but I am not going to say that, because I
don't believe it is a real misfortune at all. How
can it be a misfortune to love the man who loves
you better than anyone else in the world can
possibly do, and who will always love you just
the same as long as he lives ? ' ( ' Upon my word ! *
ejaculated Mrs. Winnington inaudibly.)

Of course,' Walter went on, ^ we shall have
troubles, and probably we shall havre to wait a
good many years ; but we are young, and we can
afford to wait, if we must. You won't mind
waiting ? '

'Oh, no; it is not the waiting that I shall
mind,' said Edith faintly.

And we know that it won't be for ever, and
that nothing can make either of us change.
When one thinks of that, all the rest seems almost
plain sailing. The first explosion will be the
worst part of the business. I shall tell my father
to-night.*

'Oh, must you? — so soon? What will he
say?'

'He? Oh, he won't say much, dear old
man. I dare say he won't exactly approve just
at first ; but when he sees that I am in earnest,
he'll do what he can to help me. And then,
you know, my dear, you'll have to tell your
mother.'

'Walter, I can't. I really could not do it.
You have really no idea of what a coward I am.
I always lie awake shivering all night before I
go to the dentist's ; and, indeed, I would rather
have all my teeth pulled out, one by one, than
tell mamma that I had engaged myself to you.'

At this juncture it was only natural that the
young lovers should embrace ; and if Mrs.
Winnino^ton had not been literally stunned and
paralysed, she could hardly have maintained her
silence any longer iu the presence of such a
demonstration. As it was, she neither moved
nor uttered a word ; and presently she heard
Edith whisper pleadingly —

Walter — dear — don't you think we could —
oughtn't we — keep it a secret just a little
longer ? '

The honest Walter rubbed his ear in perplexity.
' Well, of course we could ; but it would
be only a putting off of the evil day, and I should
like to feel that we had been perfectly straight

with the old — with your mother. Look here ;
how would it do if I were to break it to her? '

Oh, that would be a great deal worse ! If
only there were some means of letting her find
it out! '

Hardly had this aspiration been breathed
when a hollow groan was heard, proceeding
apparently from the upper air. Edith started
violently, and clasped her hands.

'Oh!' she shrieked, 'what was that? Did
you hear it?'

Yes,' answered Walter, who had himself
been somewhat startled ; ' it was nothing ; it
was only one of the cows outside. What a
timid little goose you are! '

Oh, it was not a cow ! Xo cow ever made
such a dreadful sound as that. I am sure this
dismal room is haunted — I can't stay here any
morCc' And Edith fled precipitately.

Walter lingered for a moment, looked all
round him, looked up at the ceiling, looked
everywhere, except at the gallery just over
his head, and then hurried away after her.

The cause of all this disturbance was reclining;
in an arm-chair, fanning; herself with her
pocket-handkerchief, and feeling by no means
sure that she was not about to have a fit.

It is perhaps hardly to be expected that any
pity or sympathy should be felt for Mrs. Winnington,

who, nevertheless, was a human
creature very much like the rest of us — better
possibly, than some, and no worse than a good
many others. In the course of the present
narrative her failings have necessarily been
brought much to the front ; but she was not
one of those depraved persons — if indeed there
be any such — who deliberately say to Evil, ' Be
thou ray Good.' She was not a religious woman
(though she had always paid due respect to the
observances of the Church, as beseemed a Bishop's
wife) ; but neither ^^■as she a woman without
clear, albeit perverted, notions of duty. That
she was a miserable sinner, she was bound, in a
general sort of way, to believe ; but she certainly
did not suppose that her sins were any blacker
than those of her neighbours. According to her
lights, she had done the best that she could for
her daughters, whom she really loved after a
certain fashion ; and, according to her lights,
she intended to continue doing the best she
could for them. It is a fact that she thought a
great deal more about them than she did about
herself. Thus it was that she was every whit
as much astonished and pained by what she
had witnessed as the most virtuous mother into
whose hands this book may chance to fall, would
be, were she to discover her own immaculate
daughter in the act of embracing — say the

VOL. II. F

parish doctor or the poverty-stricken parish
curate.

I could not have believed it ! ' moaned poor
Mrs. Winnington, as she sat humped up in her
arm-chair, with all her majesty of deportment
gone out of her. ' I could not have believed
it possible ! Edith, of all people ! If it
had been Kate, or even Margaret, I could have
understood it better — but Edith ! Oh, I am
crushed! — I shall never get over this,'

She really looked and felt as if she might be
going to have a serious attack of illness ; but as
there was nobody there to be alarmed, or to
offer her assistance, she picked herself up after
a time, and made her way down the corridor
v/ith a slow, dragging step. Being still in
her walking dress, she thought she would go
out and see what a breath of fresh air would do
for her. She did not, however, get further than
the front door ; for, just as she was about to let
herself out, who should run briskly up the steps
but Mr. Brune !

Is that Mrs. Winnington? ' said he. ' How
do you do, Mrs. V\^innington ? Do you know
whether my boy Walter is here ? Somebody told
me he had gone up to Longbourne, and I
rather want to see him ; so I thought I would

just look Why what's the matter ? ' he

broke off, for the first time noticing the

lady's woebegone face ; ' lias anything hap
opened ? '

Your son is here,' answered Mrs. Winnington,
in a deep tragic voice worthy of Mrs.
Siddons. ' Yes, Mr. Brune ; something has
indeed happened. No, not an accident ; don't
jump about, there's a good man ; my nerves are
completely unstrung. As we have met, I mayas
well tell you about it at once. If you are
not in a hurry, perhaps you well give me a few
minutes in private.'

By all means, Mrs. Winnington ; but hadn't
you better let me get you a glass of wine first ?
You look cjuite grey.'

Mrs. Bennington shook her head ; but Mr.
Brune thought it best to take the law into his
own hands, and rang the door-bell. After a
glass of port, wine Mrs. Winnington's complexion
began slowly to regain its normal florid aspect,
and she was able to assume something of her
customary stateliness of demeanour in motioning
her companion to follow her into a small
room on the ground floor which was sometimes
used as a study by Philip, and where she
could feel tolerably safe from intrusion.

Xow, Mr. Brune,' she began, seating herself
opposite to him, • I will say at once that I
acquit you of all blame in this scandalous business.
I feel sure that when sou. have heard

r 2

what I have to tell you, you will be as much
grieved and horrified as I have been.'

It shall be my endeavour not to disappoint
you,' answered he. *

Mrs. Winning ton paused. ' I can assure
you she said at length, ' that I feel the — the
disgrace of all this very keenly. Really I
hardly know how to begin.'

Suppose you take a little more wine,'
suggested Mr. Brune, who had been alarmed
for a moment, but who now began to suspect
that nothing very terrible was the matter after
all.

No, thank you. It is very disagreeable to
have to tell it ; but you will understand, of
course, that I am speaking to you in the
strictest confidence, and I count upon your
honour to let what I say go no further.'

And then Mrs. Winnington related what
had taken place between Walter and Edith in
her presence, suppressing nothing, except that
interchange of kisses which respect for her
daughter forbade her to mention.

'Ah,' remarked Mr. Brime, coolly, when
she had concluded her recital, ' I thought something
of this kind would probably occur sooner
or later.'

'You did?' exclaimed Mrs. Winnington,
now quite restored to her natural self. ' Then I

must say Mr. Brune, that you have been rather
Well. I did not expect to hear this ! '

What would you have had me do ? ' asked
her interlocutor, perhaps rather enjoying the
discomfiture of this veteran match-maker.
Naturally I am sorry that Walter should have
fixed his affections upon a penniless girl, for I
cannot by any possibility find him a sufficient
income to marry upon ; but I never suspected
anything until it was much too late for interference
to do any good.'

This was a view of the case which had not
presented itself to Mrs. Winnington. She had
expected that Mr. Brune, if he did not make an
absolute apology, would at least be apologetic
in his manner, and, lo and behold ! he was
taking up a tone of complete equality. And the
worst of it was that she could not very well see
how he was to be put to silence ; for it was
certainly true that Edith was penniless.

I need not point out to you,' she said,
smothering her indignation, ' that a stop must
be put to this immediately.'

I suppose so. I am sorry for the poor boy
and for the poor girl too, for that matter ;
but we can only hope that they will both get
over it.'

Edith undoubtedly will. She is a mere
child ; she has been led into folly and deceit by

one in whom I had unwisely placed implicit
trust,' cried Mrs. Winnington, who could not refuse
herself the satisfaction of making this rather
unjust accusation. ' Of course,' she added, ' you
will at once let your son understand that he is
not to hold any sort of communication with her
in future, beyond what is necessary in order to
avoid exciting remark, and that, as far as possible,
he must abstain from going anywhere
where he is likely to meet her.'

I am not sure,' answered Mr. Brune, ' that
I am prepared to take such authoritative measures
as that. Neither you nor I, Mrs. Winnington,
desire this match ; but you see, we
don't happen to be the principal persons concerned
; and if we can't be generous, we may at
least be just. So far as one can see, there is no
likelihood that these young people will ever be
able to marry, and, if they ask me my advice, I
should recommend them without hesitation to
give each other up ; but supposing, for the sake
of argument, that they chose to exchange promises
of fidelity, and to wait for better times, I
don't think that I, for my part, should consider
myself justified in forbidding an engagement.
You, of course, can do what you think proper ;
I am only speaking of my own possible action.
Walter has been a good son to me, and I shall
not cross him in any way that I can help.'

Mrs. Winnington started to her feet in a
furs. ' I declare, Mr. Brune,' she exclaimed,
I don't know-whether to call you weak or
wicked ! '

Call me what you please, my dear lady,'
replied Mr. Brune, who had also risen ; ' or call
me both, if you think it would relieve your
feelings at all to do so. Vituperation, however,
will scarcely help us to arrive at a clearer understanding
; and indeed I believe we understand
each other quite clearly as it is. So, unless you
have anything more of a practical nature to
suggest, I shall wish you good evening.'

When he was gone, Mrs. Winnington sank
back into her chair which she had just vacated,
and raised her clasped hands to heaven.

Oh,' she exclaimed, ' what a world we live
in ! Everybody is false, everybody is selfish ; it
makes one feel as if one would never be able to
believe in anyone but oneself again ! '

The amusing part of it is that she was
perfectly sincere.

CHAPTER XVI.

MATERNAL INFLUENCE.

When Mr. Brune escaped from the presence of
the justly incensed Mrs. Winnington, he shaped
his course for home without further delay.
Under the circumstances, he no longer cared to
search the house for his son, being in some fear
of drifting into an embarrassing situation, and
thinking, too, that it would be best to let the
young fellow choose his own time for making
any revelations that might have to be made.

He had not, however, proceeded very far on
his way through the gathering gloom when he
was arrested by a shrill whistle ; immediately
after which some one crossed the adjacent
meadow at a slinging trot, and, taking the
hedgerow in his stride, landed neatly in the
muddy lane.

Oh, there you are ! ' said Mr. Brune.
^ They told me you were up at the house, but I
couldn't find you anywhere about.'

I saw you starting ; so [ thought I might

as well catch yon up,' answered Walter, passing
this arm through his father's ; and so they walked
on for a couple of hundred yards or so in silence.

I say ' began Walter at length.

Well ; what do you say ? '

Facility of expression had never been among
Walters gifts. He thought for a little longer,
and then made a fresh start with —

I — er — I've got a sort of a secret to tell
you.'

Ah I ' remarked Mr. Brune, ' you may well
say a sort of a secret. A secret, 1 take it, is a
matter known, at the most, to two persons ;
when a third is let in, it becomes, as you say, a
sort of a secret ; but dien an interested party
happens to have overheard the whole business
from beginning to end, it is no longer any sort
of a secret at all.'

Eh ? '

You need not give yourself the agony of
searching for appropriate words in which to tell
your tale. I have heard it already — and several
details which I fancy you would not have thought
it necessary to communicate to me into the bargain.
What possessed you to choose that room
of all others in the house to make a declaration
in ? I remember that, when I was a boy, I
used often to creep to the end of the corridor in
hopes of seeing some exciting episode take place

beneath me ; but nothing ever came of it. Mrs.
Winnington has had better luck.'

Mrs. Omnino-ton ? Good Lord ! She wasn't

o

there when — when '

She was, though — didn't miss a word of it.
And now that I begin to realise what the scene
must have been, I can't help wishing that I too
could have been concealed somewhere and
watched her face,' said Mr. Brune, bursting into
a hearty laugh.

Oh, it's all very well to laugh,' remonstrated
Walter ; ' but this is serious.'

The whole thing is undoubtedly serious,'
answered Mr. Brune, recovering his gravity.
At the same time, I don't know that the way
in which Mrs. Winnington and I have come to
a knowledge of it is not as 2:ood a one as another.
It has saved a world of gradual explanations.'

Is she awfully angry ? '

Well, yes ; she is rather angry, I believe ;
but that should hardly surprise you.'

Poor Edith ! ' muttered Walter ; ' how she
will catch it ! I have a sort of feeling that I ought
to go back to the house at once.'

I have a sort of feeling that you will do no
such thing, so long as I can hold you,' returned
Mr. Brune, keeping a firm grip of his son's arm.
My dear boy, you must allow parents and
children to settle their differences between themselves.

And. talking of that, doesn't it strike
you that I may have a word or two to say to
your marriage — or rather engagement ? '

■ Oh. of course. In fact. I was must o-oino- to
tell you all about it. I know,' continued Walter
penitently, ' that I shave no business to think
about marrying at all ; but — but, in short, I
couldn't help it.'

You have done what can't be helped now,
at all events,' observed Mr. Brune. ' I don't
blame you,' he resumed, after a pause. ' A son
who has never troubled his father in any worse
way than by falling in love with a girl who
hasn't a sixpence, and who has an outrageous
old mother, must be allowed to be a success, as
sons go, and can fairly claim some indulgence.
But, setting that consideration aside, it is a very
open question whether I have any right at all to
interfere with your plans, except as a friendly
adviser. When you were a boy, you know, I
used to make you obey me, and never allowed
you to ask questions or begin your sentences
with a But.'

Walter nodded. ' It's the only way,' he
said.

It is gratifying to me to have your
approval said Mr. Brune gravely. ' Well, so
long as it was necessary that I should be master,
I believe I was a tolerably strict one ; buta

time always arrives when the old bird's functions
come to an end, and the young ones must
fly for themselves and shift for themselves.
There isn't room for you in the old nest, and
you must feather a new one as best you can.
Or again, if you prefer a nest without feathers,
what can I say ? I can give you the benefit of
my experience as to the comfort of nests of
that description ; but it isn't much use for me
to scold.'

Bless you ! you couldn't scold if you
were to try for a twelvemonth,' said Walter,
giving his father's arm a squeeze ; ' you don't
know the way.'

Anyhow, I am not going to scold. Nor am
I going to remonstrate. Indeed, if there came
to be a question of remonstrances between us, I
am half afraid that it would be for me to receive,
not to utter, them. I have not done my duty
by you, Walter; though I believe I may say
that I have intended to do it — if that is any
excuse.'

My dear old man, what are you talking
about ? You have been the kindest father and
the best friend any fellow could wish for,' cried
Walter Warmly.

Ah, well ! you have a case against me all
the same. Things have not fallen out quite as
they seemed likely to do when your mother and

I agreed that you were to succeed me at the
farm, instead of entering a profession like your
brothers. To a certain extent I have been unfortunate
; that is to say that I have neither
made nor inherited what I expected to do ; but,
on the other hand, I have muddled away a lot of
money. The upshot of it all is that, instead of
being very comfortably ois, I am a poor man
and shall never be anything else. I hear people
talk of making farming pay; but I can't say I
have ever yet met a man who has accomplished
the feat.'

I defy any man to make farming pay in
these days,' said Walter confidently.

Well ; but don't you see what this brings
us to? The only thing that could enable you
to support a wife and family would be my
death ; and goodness only knows how long I
may not live. I am as strong as a horse and
barely past the half-century.'

'I only wish you may live another fifty
years.'

^ Thank you very much ; but fifty years is
rather a long period to propose to a young lady
for an engagement. How are you going to get
out of that difficulty?'

Walter scratched his head, and answered
with much candour that he was hanged if he
knew.

Then Mr. Brune pulled a letter out of his
pocket. ' The afternoon post brought me this
he said, ' and I was going to show it to you
before I heard anything about your love affairs.
It is from William Boulders your uncle William,
whom you have heard of, but never seen, and
who is now senior partner in the firm of
Boulger & Co. — and he writes to offer an
opening in the bank to one of my sons. He
means one of the younger ones, no doubt, and I
suppose the fact of the matter is that he has
been quarrelling with his ovv^n people. A few
years ago I should have said Xo, thank you ;
but now things look so bad that I thought I
ought at least to let you hear of the proposal
before declining it. As far as I understand
him, it is only a clerkship that he offers ; but
he alludes to ' probable advancement in life,'
Which, I conclude, means eventual partnership.
Now William Boulger is, or used to be, an
infernally disagreeable fellow ; but he is a man
of business and a man of his word, and the
chances are that, if anything, he means more
than he says, rather than less. I think the
matter might be worth your considering.'

My dear father,' exclaimed Walter, ' it is
the very thing. What a stroke of luck ! Write
off to the old boy, and tell him I'm his man. I
don't mind confessing to you now that I was a

little bit clown about my prospects : but this
will put everything right, depend upon it.'

Even in that uncertain light Walter could
see that his father was looking at him in an odd,
wistful wav.

'AYhat is it?' he asked. 'You think I
shan't like the sort of work, eh ? '

My poor fellow, I don't think about it ; I
know you will utterly hate and abhor it. You,
who love the open air and the smell of the fields
almost as much as I do, and outdoor sports a
great deal more than I ever did — you to sit
upon a high stool in the city, totting up figures
from morning to night ! Even the prospect of
your dying a rich man could never reconcile me
to such a notion.'

I should be doing it with an object,' said
Walter quickly.

Well, yes ; there's that. And you can
always throw it up, and return to your crust of
bread and liberty. I want you to promise me,
my boy, that you will do that, if you find the
life intolerable. But I think, upon the whole,
you would do wisely to accept the offer. You
would be none the worse off for having given
the thing a trial, and living in London will give
you an insight into the ways of the world which
you could never have acquired if you had vegetated
down at Broom Leas all the days of your

life. Only prays bear in mind that you will
always have it in your power to escape.'

And Edith? ' said Walter, smiling.

Ah — that indeed ! '

Mr. Brune did not choose to tell his son how
very little belief he had in the successful termination
of that affair ; still less was he disposed
to try and convince the young fellow that
this world only exists by virtue of continual
change, that when the course of true love does
not run smooth it very commonly ceases to run
at all, and that nobody is much the worse after
a year or two. There are things that one does
not say to women and children ; and there are
also things — this, at least, was Mr. Brune's view
that ought not to be said to young men.
Innocence is sacred; and should not the illusions
and enthusiasms of youth be sacred too?

Quand j'ai connie la verite,
J'ai cru que d'etat une amie ;
Quand je I'ai comprise et sentie,
E'en etais dejii devote.

Et pourtant elle est eternally,
Et ceux qui se sont passes d elle
Ici-bas ont tout ignore.

As a man grows older he inevitably learns much
respecting his own nature and that of his fellow-mortals
which can hardly heighten his respect
for the race ; and probably few would care to

surrender that sad knowledge ; but who, on
looking back, would wish that he had known
at the age of twenty-three all that he knows
now ?

Mr. Brune, then, held his peace ; and as for
Walter, he spent the remainder of the evening in
golden dreams, towards the realisation of which
the obnoxious high stool was to act as a steppingstone.
The evening — if he had been in a frame
of mind to pay attention to trifles — was not
being passed in a very cheerful manner by the
trio who sat round the fire near him ; for Mr.
Brune was silent and thoughtful, and Nellie, for
some unexplained reason, thought fit to demean
herself towards Mr. Stanniforth in such an
exceedingly cold and haughty fashion that she
succeeded at length in driving that good-natured
and mystified gentleman clean out of the room
to seek solace in tobacco. Walter may be
pardoned for having failed to notice this by-play.
He went up to bed in an exuberantly hopeful
mood, and dreamt that he was senior partner in
Boulger's bank, that he had just purchased back
the estate of his forefathers, and that he was
consulting Edith as to whether, when he got his
peerage, he should call himself Lord Brune or
Lord Longbourne.

The next morning, while he was smoking his
pipe m the stable-yai'd after breakfast, a groom

VOL. II. G

from Longbourne rode up, and delivered to him
a note addressed in feminine handwriting, which
brought his foolish heart up into his mouth.

I was to wait for an answer, if }'ou please,
sir said the man.

Walter moved otway a few paces and tore
open his letter, which did not prove to be from
Edith, as he had half hoped that it might be ;
nor were its contents of a nature to raise an
anxious lover's spirits. ^ Mrs. Winnington presents
her compliments to Mr. Walter Brune, and
would be glad to see him for a few minutes, if
he will be so good as to call upon her between
eleven and twelve o'clock this morning.'

Walter faced about, and walked back to the
groom. ' Say, Mr. Walter Brune's compliments,
and he'll turn up all right.'

And shortly after having despatched this
informal reply, our young friend set out in
obedience to Mrs. Winnington' s summons. He
was not much alarmed, but rather amused, at the
absurdity of her writing to him in the third
person. It seemed to him that she could not
have felt her position to be an impregnable one
when she threw up that flimsy species of earthwork.
The fact was that he had been so accustomed
to hearing' Mrs. Bennington laughed at
and made a fool of by Marescalchi that he hardly
did justice to the good lady's inexorable will and

strength of purpose, and had got a sadly
mistaken notion into his head that, if he breve
only firm with her, she would falter and give
way.

Yet, for all his stout-heartiness, he felt his
hands growing cold and a sinking sensation about
the region of the waistcoat as he drew nearer to
the house. He had an uncomfortable suspicion
that the butler, who admitted him, knew all ;
and when he was ushered into the same small
room in which his father had been engaged with
the enemy on the previous evening, he knew
that he was looking defiant, and by no means
wore that aspect of calm and courteous determination
which he would fain have assumed.

Mrs. Winnington was sitting by the fire,
reading the Times, and at a short distance off,
Edith, with her back turned, was gazing intently
out of the window at a large spruce fir, the lower
branches of which darkened the room. Walter
had a moment of hesitation, not having been prepared
to meet Edith, and being in some uncertainty
as to the manner in which he ought to
greet her. He got out of the difficulty by not
t^reetino; her at all — a course which she made
the easier for him by never turning her head nor
manifesting; the slightest consciousness of his
presence.

Mrs. "Winnington rose with much majesty to

her full height, and Walter, to show that he was
not frightened, held out his hand, saying cheerfully,
' Good morning.'

But both the lady's hands were engaged in
holding her newspaper, over which she bowed ina
stately fashion, without speaking. Walter
remained standing before her, thinking that he
would allow her to fire the first shot ; but as she
chose to maintain a frigid silence, he presently
took upon himself to open the proceedings by
plunging in medias res with —

I'm afraid you're not best pleased with me,
Mrs. Winnington.'

'Will you sit dosvn ? ' she said, not deigning
to notice his observation ; and the young man
took the chair pointed out to him, and sat with
his elbows on his knees, twirling his hat, and
wishing, perhaps, that the next quarter of an
hour were well over.

I need scarcely tell you,' began Mrs.
Winnington, ' that it is not very pleasant to me
to receive you, after what has occurred ; but I
have sent for you because it seemed to me
desirable that our respective positions should
be — er '

That we should know where we are, in
short,' suggested Walter, by way of helping her
out in a friendly spirit.

Mrs. Winninofton cave him one stance of

mingled distrust and disdain, but did not refuse
to accept the interpolation. ' You will probably
ao^ree with me,' she went on, 'that what has to
be said had better be said in the fewest possible
words. I shall purposely abstain from any
comment upon your behaviour '

I should like you just to admits though, that
I have done the straight things far as you are
concerned,' interrupted Walter. ' You are
displeased and disappointed, and I'm sure I
don't wonder at it ; but when you speak of misbehaviour
I think you ought to allow that I
have not been guilty of an' deception.'

Not guilty of any deception ! ' cried Mrs.
Winnington, reddening. ' Well, I can only say
that I think you have behaved as deceitfully and

dishonourably as ' Here, however, she came

to a full stop. She was aware that she could
not lose her temper without at the same time
losing something of her dignity, and the occasion
was one upon which dignity must be allowed to
have the pre-eminence. ^ But that is not the
question,' she said, waving the subject away with
a lofty sweep of the Times.

^ Pardon me, but to my mind it is very much
the question.'

Not the question,' repeated Mrs. Winning-ton
with increased emphasis. 'It was not to
put you upon your defence, or to listen to it,

that I requested you to call here this morning.
I am willing to take the most charitable view of
the case, and to assume that you have, or think
you have, a real attachment for my daughter.'
Mrs. Winnington brought out these last words
with rather a wry face ; but she had considered
beforehand what she should say, and was resolute
not to swerve from her Ime of attack. ' And if
that be so,' she continued, 'you will certainly
not wish to cause her any needless pain or distress.
It surely cannot be necessary that I
should even mention such a thing as the possibility
of your becoming engaged to her : your
common sense will tell you that no father or
mother could sanction an engagement where
there were neither means nor prospect of any
on one side or the other. The whole thing is a
foolish boy-and-girl scrape which I am sure we
should all be glad to forget. Edith has expressed
to me her sincere regret and penitence ' (here
AV alter started, and glanced at the figure by the
window, which, he fancied, shivered ever so
slightly), 'and — in fact it is a case of least said
soonest mended. Fortunately very few people
know of the affair. Your father has been told
of it, and for several reasons I thought it best
also to tell my daughter Margaret, who is very
anxious that there should be no breach between
us and your father's family in consequence ; but

it need never, I should hope, go further. I cannot
truly sav that we shall be o-lad to see you
often after this, and probably your own good
feeling will prompt you to keep out of the way ;
but occasional chance meetings between you and
Edith can hardly be prevented, and I wish you to
give me your honour in her presence that you will
never, by word or look, recur to — to what is past

Walter was a good deal disconcerted. For
anger and abuse he had been prepared, but not
for the tone of studious moderation which Mrs.
Winnington had seen fit to adopt, and remembering
that, not so many hours before, he had called
her an awful old woman in her hearing:, and had
kissed her daughter under her very nose, he
could not but feel that her self-restraint placed
him at a considerable disadvantage. He was
conscious, too, that, according to all received
ideas, her case was a strong one, and his own a
deplorably weak one.

I'm not much of a hand at argument,' he
confessed at length, ' and I can't put things as
forcibly as you do, Mrs. Bennington. All the
same I have something to say for myself, and I
dare say I shall manage to get it said, if you'll
give me time. As to my having no money, I'm
afraid that's undeniable; and yesterday I couldn't
have pretended that I had anything in the way
of prospects to look forward to either ; but, oddly

enough, there has been a little change smce then.
My uncle — old Boulger, you know — has offered
me a clerkship in his bank, and I've made up
my mind to take it. I admit that that doesn't
mean much pay for some years ; but I believe
he means to push me on, if I'm good, and I think
I may fairly say that I have a chance of being
comfortably off some day. I suppose I shall go
up to London almost immediately, and never get
away, except on Bank holidays, so there won't
be much risk of those chance meetings that you
mentioned.'

Mrs. Winnington could not repress a faint
murmur of satisfaction.

All this is awfully vague, I know,' Walter
continued, ' and perhaps I ought not to expect

you to sanction a regular engagement, but '

Here a short laugh from Mrs. Winnington
arrested him, and he looked up inquiringly.

Oh, go on, pray go on,' said she ; ' it is
quite diverting to listen to you. You would
prefer an irregular engagement, I suppose.'

What I was going to say was this : I must
acknowledge that, under the circumstances, you
have every right to send me about my business,
but, for all that, I can't give Edith up at your
bidding.'

Really,' said Mrs. Winnington, ' 1 do not
understand you.'

Well, then, I must try to speak more
plainly. I love Edith, and I know that she
loves me ; and, so long as that is so, I shall
consider that we are bound to one another,
though we may not be formally engaged. To
tell you the truth, Mrs. Bennington, I have my
doubts about her ever having expressed repentance
to you in the way that you say she did.
She may have told you that she was sorry for
having vexed you, or that you should have
overheard something of what passed between us
yesterday; but that she ever said more than
that is what I cannot believe.'

You are very insolent,' returned Mrs. Winnington
coldly ; ' but I suppose I must bear
with you up to the end. Edith, my love, I wish
I could avoid paining you ; but I am afraid you
will have to tell this — very extraordinary young
gentleman that you wish to recall any foolish
promise that he may have extorted from you.'

Upon this Edith at last turned round, and
Walter eagerly scanned her features. She was
very pale ; but she had not been crying, as her
lover half hoped, half feared that she might
have been, and when she spoke, it was in a
steady, monotonous voice. She did not, however,
once raise her eyes from the carpet.

We must part, Walter,' she said : 'we have
made a mistake. You know,' she added presently,

' I always told yon that it was impossible
that it could not be.'

It can be, and it will be,' cried Walter, who
had now also turned rather white, ' if we only
have the pluck to be true to ourselves and to one
another. It is not of your own free will that
you are turning me off like this. Edith, look
at me! — listen! I don't ask you to bind yourself
formally ; I don't even ask to see you, or to
be allowed to write to you. I only entreat you
to have patience and to wait. That sounds like
asking a great deal ; but if you really love me,
it is asking nothing. I won't give up hope
until I hear from your own lips that you don't
care enough for me to bear a time of uncertainty
and waiting.'

Edith ! ' said Mrs. Winnington solemnly.

The girl looked up, cast an imploring glance
first at her mother and then at Walter, and
dropped her eyes again, but said never a word.

Edith ! ' repeated the instrument of destiny
by the fireplace, in somewhat sterner accents.

This time the victim responded to the call.
It is quite true,' she said slowly, ' I don't care

enough ' Her voice died away. Then, all

of a sudden, she exclaimed passionately, ' Oh,
why can't you believe what I say ? Why don't
you go away? You ought not to persecute me
so!'

I hope,' said Mrs. Wilmington quietly,
that you are now satisfied.'

Poor Walter was not in a state to make any
reply. The floor seemed to be rising and falling
before him ; the walls were spinning round ; he
had to clutch at the mantelpiece for support.
There was a long minute of profound silence,
after which he heard Mrs. bennington's voice,
as from the far distance, saying, ' Don't you
think you had better leave us now?'

He made a strong effort to recover his self-command.
' Certainly,' he answered. ' I have
nothing more to do here. It — it's a pity this
wasn't said a little sooner. I had no intention
of — persecuting anybody. Good-bye, Mrs.
Winnington. Good-bye, Edith, and God bless
you always ! '

And so, somehow or other, he found himself
out in the hall, and was aware that the butler
was surveying him with an air of grave surprise.

Good-bye, Wilson,' he said ; ' you won't
see me down here again for many a long day, I
expect. I'm going up to London to make my
fortune, Wilson.'

Indeed, sir ? I am sorry hear it, sir,'
answered the man.

What, sorry to hear that I am going to
make my fortune ? You must know precious
little of the world then, Wilson. Why, bless

your soul, money is the only thing worth living
for. There's nothing that money can't buy —
houses, and lands, and friends, and wives, too,
if you want them. Between you and me,
Wilson, this world's going to the devil pretty
quickly.'

Probably Wilson knew perfectly well what
was the matter ; otherwise he might have been
inclined to suspect that young Mr. Brune had
been drinking; a little more than was o;ood for
him. And indeed Walter's gait, as he hastened
across the lawn, was scarcely that of a sober
man.

Before he had reached the boundary of the
garden some one appeared suddenly from a bypath,
and caught him by both hands.

Oh, Walter ! ' exclaimed Margaret, with
the tears in her eyes, ' I am so very, very
sorry.'

Possibly there may have been something
like tears in the young fellow's eyes, too ; for
he winked violently, and cleared his voice
several times, without being able to make any
articulate reply.

I know that I have been a great deal to
blame for this,' Margaret went on penitently.
^ I ought to have foreseen what was likely
to happen ; but somehow I never thought of it
until — until a short time aro.'

Walter now managed to say that he had
nothing to complain of, and blamed nobody.
He had made a great mistake, and there was no
more to be said.

Certainly there was not much to be said in
the way of consolation. Had Walter declared
himself determined to hope on against hope,
Mrs. Stannlforth would have been ready to
point out to him how wrong this was, and
might even have been persuaded in the long
run to write to him, every now and then,
and let him have news of the beloved one's
state of health — a point upon which he might
reasonably be supposed to feel some anxiety ;
but as he chose to give up the game, it was not
for her to quarrel with his submissiveness, and
no doubt, matters being as they were, it was a
(good think' that he was about to vanish altogether
from the scene. Margaret may have
been inwardly a trifle disappointed ; but she
did not allow the existence of any such feeling
to be inferred from her manner, and Walter
gave her no time to add much more, one way or
the other. He made her a somewhat incoherent
speech, thanking her for all her kindness to him
in past years, and hoping that she would not
forget him, and so departed.

Margaret watched him out of slight, and
then returned to the house, where her mother
met her with —

All's well that ends well. But, Margaret
dear, I can't help saying that I hope this will bea
warning to you to be just a little more careful
about making all sorts of people welcome to the
house. If anything of this kind were to occur
again, I am afraid it would be my duty to
think seriously of settling down with dear Edith
in a home of our own.'

CHAPTER XVII.

NELLIE SPENDS AN EXCITING DAY.

It is SO common a failing, even among the
wisest of mankind, to estimate what is probable
by the measure of what is desirable, that
Mrs. Winnington may be excused for having
cherished a fond belief that all cognisance of
the episode treated of in the last chapter might
be confined to the five persons whom she knew
to be already acquainted with it. Xo one,
however, who has lived much in .the country
will suppose for one moment that a popular
and widely-known young fellow like Walter
Brune could leave the neighbourhood abruptly
in order to seek employment in London, for
which, both by tastes and training, he was
notoriously unfitted — no one, I say, will believe
that such a step as this could be taken without
reasons, true and false, being speedily forthcoming
to account for it. In this instance, the
truth, or something not very unlike the truth,
was known to the whole county in about a

week ; — in a space of time, that is to say, which
would include one Sunday, one market-day, and
at least one dinners-party, or other social
gathering. Mr. Wilson, it may be assumed,
would give his version of the affair to one set
of persons, Mrs. Winnington's maid would
communicate hers to another, while the groom
who had ridden over to Broom Leas with the
note for Walter would command the attention
of a third. Starting from these humble sources
the news would infiltrate by the usual processes
into a higher layer cf society, and propagating
itself by the mere fact of its existence, as the
germs of certain diseases are said to do, would
ere long penetrate into the most remote and
least inquisitive quarters.

Thus it was that, within the brief period
above indicated, a very general impression got
abroad to the effect that poor young Brune had
been abominably treated. His father, it was
alleged, had turned him out of doors ; Mrs.
Stanniforth had forbidden him ever to show his
face at Longbourne again ; Mrs. Winnington
had assailed him with a torrent of the coarsest
abuse ; and all this because, forsooth, he had
ventured to raise his eyes to a girl who, after
all, was in no way his superior, and who surely
might have been contented with throwing him
over when he had served her purpose of acting

as a decoy duck for more wary and wealthier
suitors. It was unanimously concluded that
the affair was discreditable to all concerned in
it ; and, as this is always a comfortable conclusion
to arrive at, Walter's wrongs were discussed
for a longer time and with greater relish
than anybody's good fortune would have been.

It was well for Mrs. Winnington that she
was both disliked and feared in the county, and
that she had no friend within twenty miles
sufficiently intimate to undertake the delightful
task of letting her know what pleasant things
were being said about her. She was perfectly
at ease in her mind, feeling assured that those
in whom she had confided would best consult
their own interest by keeping silence ; and
what better security for discretion could she
have than that ? Mr. Brune, if she had known
it, had taken upon himself to let a sixth person
into the secret ; but that person was a safe one,
and moreover could hardly have been kept long
in ignorance of what had taken place.

Nellie showed no surprise when her father
related the circumstances to her, but expressed
herself upon the subject with a bitterness which
rather astonished him, declaring that Walter
was well out of it, and passing a sweeping condemnation
upon the entire Longbourne set,
Stanniforths and Winningtons alike.

VOL. II. H

How horrid they all are ! ' she exclaimed ;
^ Edith is not a bit better than the rest of them.
Even Mrs. Stanniforth, good and kind as she isis
completely under the thumb of that detestable
woman, and did not dare to say a word for poor
Walter, whom they have driven ito a choky
London den, where he will pine, like a lark ina
cage.'

Walter had made his choice on that score
before he knew that he was to be rejected,'
observed Mr. Brune ; ' and you must learn to
moderate your language, Nell, or people will
set you down as a little termagant. I give you
over Mrs. Winnington ; but you needn't curse
the whole tribe of Stanniforths. There's Tom,
for instance ; I call Tom a capital fellow.'

Do you ? '

Yes ; don't you ? I thought you and he
had struck up a firm alliance when he was
here.'

Oh ! ' said Nellie, ' I liked him well enough
in a sort of way ; but I have no doubt that,
below the surface, he is just like the others.
And then he is such a bore with his philanthropic
schemes.'

Hem ! I may be very wrong ; but I was
under the impression that it was you who persuaded
me, against my better judgment, to signa
petition for the total abolition of vivisection.' ^

'Well, I know I did. When people have
hobbies, the only way to save oneself from
being: tormented is to o-ive in to them ; and I
told you at the time that it didn't the least
signify, because nobody would think of looking
at all those signatures.'

Yes, I remember that you made use of
that remarkable argument. Poor Stanniforth !
he won't worry you with any more hobbies ; for
I don't suppose we are likely to come across
him again, unless, indeed, he pays them another
visit at Longbourne. Do you know, I have
sometimes thought that our worthy friend Mrs.
Winnington would not be altogether displeased
if he were to take a fancy to Edith.'

Xellie burst out laughing with much apparent
heartiness. ' You dear, simple old
father ! Do you mean to say that you have
only just found that out? Didn't you guess-why
Mrs. Winnington was so desperately
anxious to keep things quiet that she didn't
even forbid Walter the house, and has had us
twice asked to dinner since Mr. Stannifortli has
been there ? I was so glad that we could not
go ! I don't think I could have borne to walk
in the old wretch's triumphal procession, like
the captives of the Roman generals. Why,
Edith is either ensnared to Mr. Stanniforth now,
or will be in a fev/ days.'

This conversation took place towards the end
of September, at which time Mr. Stanniforth
certainly had not compromised his future in the
manner imputed to him. He had spent a week
at Longbourne, and had then left with a precipitancy
which did not lack significance. But
of Mr. Stanniforth and his deeds and fortunes,
Nellie had neither seen nor heard anything from
the day on which he had quitted Broom Leas.
During the last few days of his stay she had been
pleased, as we have seen, to treat him with a
haughtiness, not to say incivility, for which her
conscience now began to call her to account.
Looking back upon this dispassionately, it did
seem somewhat unjust, and perhaps even unworthy,
to have vented her temper upon the
poor man because Mrs. Winnington had suggested
impertinent possibilities with reference to
him ; but Miss Brune was not more prone than
are the majority of her age and sex to look at
things dispassionately, nor had she anticipated
that her guest would take this snubbing in the
manner that he had done. If it had been in her
power to look down into the depths of her heart,
she would have made a discovery which would
have surprised her ; for she would have found
out that what she wanted was that Mr. Tannin
should inquire into the cause of her changed
demeanour, and, without receiving any answer —

for of course lie could not receive any — should
by some means or other have arrived at a comprehension
of it. But he had done nothing of
that kid. He had asked no questions, nor had
he once taken the trouble to call at Broom Leas
after his change of quarters. He had simply
(so it seemed to NelKe) shrugged his shoulders,
and walked off, as a sensible man might be expected
to do when out of patience with the
caprices of a silly schoolgirl. Xow it was b3^no
means in this latter light that bliss Brune desired
to be regarded by Mr. Stanniforth or anybody
else : hence, possibly, the acrimony with
which she had spoken of him behind his
back.

During: the succeeding' six weeks Nellie had
leisure enough and to spare for the duty of self-examination
; but as this method of passing time
is seldom satisfactory to young and healthy
minds, she soon discarded it, and began to cast
about her for occupation or amusement in one
form or another. Of these two o-ood things there
was now, as it happened, an unwonted dearth
in her small world. Out of all her tribe of
brothers not one was at this time beneath the
paternal roof, some being at school, some at sea ;
even Walter was away in London, where Philip
also was hard at work, studying law after the
fashion known to the reader. Mrs. Winnington,

in search of second and third strings to her bow,
had carried off Edith into the west of England.
The neighbourhood, too, which at the best of
times was not a remarkably lively one, had
entered upon the annual period of torpor which
separated the last of the garden parties from the
first of the winter dances.

All this tended to produce a feeling of melancholy
which the season of the year was well calculated
to deepen. The leaden skies, the bare,
brown fields, the yellow leaves that fluttered
down in showers with every gust of wind, the
chrysanthemums and dahlias all draggled and
forlorn — these were dismal objects to contemplate
when one had little else to do, the livelong
day but to contemplate them. Every morning
the low mists hung over the Cray valley, and
every afternoon they crept slowly up to the
higher ground, wrapping men and things in a
moist and chilly embrace. Mr. Brune caught a
bad cold in his head, and became a trifle querulous
under the influence of it, declaring that this
being out in all weathers would be the death of
him, and that he missed Walter more everyday.


I shouldn't catch colds in my head if I were
not in such confoundedly low spirits,' he asserted;
and I shouldn't be in low spirits if I had somebody
to talk to.'

J

Upon this Xellie eagerly suggested that
she should accompany her father on his daily
rounds ; but he negatived the proposition despondently.


You can't walk.' he said, * and there's
nothing for you to ride.'

There's Wasp,' said she.

XoTT "Wasp was a powerful young horse which
Walter had bought, some months before, with
the intention of hunt in o' him during the ensuing

o o o

season. Xellie had been once upon his back ;
but he had even her so much trouble on that
occasion that she had been forbidden to repeat
the experiment.

I won't have you riding Wasp,' said Mr.
Brune ; ' he is too much for you.'

I should like to see the horse that was too
much for me ! ' cried Miss Brune ; and in truth
she had a light hand and a firm seat, and had
often been complimented upon her possession of
these gifts.

Very well, my dear, then you can look at
Wasp as often as you please. I can't afford to
have my children breaking their arms and legs
in these hard times.'

Xellie said no more ; for she understood how
to manage her father. And the remainder of
this chapter will be devoted, amongst other
things, to showing how wrong it is of children

to manage their parents, and how foolish of
parents to let themselves be managed by their
children.

On the following morning the wilful young
woman whose discomfiture will presently be related,
privately ordered a side-saddle to be put
upon Wasp ; and when Mi'. Brune went into the
stable yard after breakfast to mount his own
steady cob, lo and behold ! there was a diminutive
person in a riding habit, perched upon a
sidling grey quadruped of gigantic size, waiting
for him ; and he was immediately greeted with
a triumphant

There now ! didn't I tell you so ? You
see he's as quiet as a lamb.'

Mr. Brune remarked that he was evidently
getting into his dotage, and that the sooner he
was dead sand buried out of sight the better,
since nobody any longer dreamt of paying attention
to his express orders. He then sarcastically
inquired whether a leading-rein Jiad been provided
for him ; whereat the stable-helper, who
was a young man of no manners or refinement,
burst into a prodigious haw-haw, and had to be
sternly rebuked by the coachman. Mr. Brune,
meanwhile, had climbed a little stiffly into his
saddle, and, after a few preliminary plunges on
the part of Nellie's gallant grey, the pair rode off
side by side, the old coachman hobbling out to

watch them with a countenance expressive of
admiration not unmixed with anxiety.

Hope they won't meet any o' them blamed
traction-engines,' he muttered. ' That there
Woes he ain't the loss for a nervous rider, let
alone a young lady.'

Wasp was certainly not a pleasant animal to
ride. His notion of getting over the ground was
a series of senseless and objectless shies ; and his
notion of shying was a tremendous spring from
one side of the road to the other, followed by
sundry snorts and capers, which seemed intended
to signify to his rider that nothing except a
strong sense of duty restrained him from making
a bolt for it. Nellie, however, rather enjoyed,
or said that she enjoyed, these light-hearted performances,
and would not hear of going back
and having the saddles changed, as her father
humbly requested her to do. So they pottered
about from field to field the whole morning,
and had a gallop over a corner of the downs ;
after which the exuberance of Wasp's spirits
subsided a little ; insomuch that Mr. Brune was
brought to confess that there didn't appear to
be much harm in the brute after all. His confidence
was at length so fully restored that,
when they reached the bailiff's cottage, he was
persuaded to dismount and look over some
accounts which had been prepared for his

perusal, leaving his daughter to wait outside.


Awaiting was what neither Nellie nor Wasp
liked ; and at the end of ten minutes one of them
reached the limits of her stock of patience. She
tapped on the window with her whip, and asked
whether she might ride just a little way on the
downs to keep herself warm, and come back again.
Mr. Brune called out hastily, ' No, no ; stay where
you are. I'll be with you directly.' But perhaps
his daughter did not hear him ; for she
quietly turned her horse's head away, and was
soon cantering up the grassy slopes of a hill
famed in those parts as offering a point of view
whence the usual incredible number of counties
can be distinguished on a clear day. She reined
up her horse when she reached the crest, from
which only one county, and not very much of
that, was then visible ; but if there was little in
the way of scenery to attract the notice of the
solitary horsewoman, she was rewarded, before
many minutes were past, by the sight of something
that caused her to jump, and cry 'Oh ! '
in accents of suppressed excitement which no
landscape, however extensive, would have drawn
from her.

Far away, beyond the misty valley at her
feet, a small reddish-brown object suddenly flitted
across the opposite hillside, and was gone ; and

almost before the above ejaculation was uttered,
there were the hounds, streaming after the fox,
and presently a few red coats appeared in the
wake of the hounds.

Oh,' exclaimed Xellie, ' how I should like
to be with them ! '

An instant later she would gladly have recalled
a wish which had been only too fully shared
by another spectator of the scene. Wasp, whose
cocked ears and trembling limbs had escaped
the attention of his heedless rider, not only
wished, but meant to be with them, and, in order
to give the promptest effect to his intentions, he
was tearing down the slope at a speed which
showed little consideration for his own safety
or that of his mistress. Nellie did not like it at
all. She might as well have tried to stop an
avalanche as to pull up a runaway horse in such
a place as that ; but she tugged as hard as she
could, just by way of letting him know that she
was there, and, finding that her efforts produced
no effect whatever, made the best of what could
not be helped, sat well back, and wished for the
end. Even in that moment of dire distress, she
found a grain of comfort in the reflection that
she was in no danger of heading the fox.
Thundering down a declivity almost as steep as
the proverbial side of a house, with the ground
flying from under her like running water, an

aspiration flashed across her mind akin to that
in which the unfortunate bricklayer is said to
have found time to indulge between the top of a
Parisian scaffolding and the pavement of the
street below — ' OA, mon Dieu I pourvu que ca
dure / ' 'If nothing happens between this and
that ! ' she thought. By ' that ' she meant the
slope on the further side of the valley, where, supposing
that she ever got there, she felt tolerably
sure of being able to check her headlong career.
But, alas ! Wasp had thought of that too ;
or, if he had not thought of it, instinct told him
to head down the valley, and to round the base
of the hill behind which the red coats had
vanished. Somehow or other, he and his helpless
load reached level ground ; somehow or
other — Nellie never knew how — they traversed
a road, a ditch, and a small brook ; and now
they were racing across a stretch of open country,
and were gaining upon the last of the horsemen.
But, owing to some inequalities in the ground,
only the heads and shoulders of these were
visible, and in a minute or two the tops of their
hats had disappeared. It was then that Nellie
became aware of a new peril, and a more formidable
one than any of those from which she
had escaped. Directly before her was a ragged
black hedgerow which looked both high and
thick ; and since nothing but a glimmer of grey

sky could be discerned through it, it seemed
evident that there must be a drop of unknown
depth on the other side. Xellie took this in at a
stance, and at the same moment a sickening;
suspicion of wire crossed hier mind. Although
this was her first experience of foUo^^ing the
hounds (for Mr. Brune had old-fashioned prejudices
with reference to the appearance of ladies
in the hunting-field) she had often ridden across
country with her brothers, and was not afraid of
any obstacle of moderate size ; but she knew
that she had never been over such a big thing as
this in her life ; and, what was worse, she very
much doubted whether '\\^asp ever had either.
The brute was rushing blindly ahead ; she made
a despairing and fruitless attempt to steady him ;
then she shut her eyes. Immediately came a
crash ; a sensation as if the whole world was
breaking up into fragments, a brilliant display
of fireworks — and the next thing of which Miss
Brune vv^as fully conscious was that she was sitting
in a ploughed field, with her hair hanging
over her face, and the hills and sky revolving ina
most extraordinary manner round her.

After wondering for a moment whether she
was dead or alive, and satisfying herself that her
head was still upon her shoulders, she raised
herself on to her knees ; and perhaps some
people would have profited by that position to

return thanks for deliverance from sudden
death. Nellie, however, must have inherited
the instincts of a sportswoman ; for the first
thing that suggested itself to her mind was
not this obvious duty, but the expediency of
catching her horse, Avhom she saw at the other
end of the field, trotting round with his head in
the air, and in a state of bewilderment evidently
quite equal to her own. Some people, again,
would have been very willing to let that headstrong
beast go his own way, and would not
have cared to give him a second chance of
breaking a Christian neck ; but this was by no
means Nellie's view of the case. She knew that
Wasp would have had quite enough of running
away for one day, and that, if by any means she
could contrive to hoist herself upon his back, he
would let himself be ridden home as submissively
as could be wished.

To catch a loose horse is, however, one of
those things which are more easily determined
upon than carried into execution, and the difficulty
is not lessened when the pursuer happens
to be in a somewhat unsteady condition as to
head and legs, and to be further encumbered
with a torn riding-habit. Nellie plunged across
the furrows as best she could, and when she got
near her horse, called him by name ; whereupon
he cocked his ears, neighed, and waited for her

to approach. He then flung up his head, and
went off at a gallop. Xellie now proceeded to
stalk him patiently and warily into a corner, he
lending himself to the design and watching her
movements with much apparent interest. When
she was within a few yards of him, up went his
head again, and away he cantered into another
corner, whither she laboriously followed him.
This manoeuvre was repeated for the space of
half an hour ; at the end of which time Miss
Brune's patience and strength alike gave way,
and she felt very much disposed to sit down in
the dirt and cry. Wasp, too, had seemingly
become tired of the game. There was a gap in
the hedge at the farther end of the field which a
less stupid animal would have taken advantage
of long before. He now scrambled through it,
and was promptly lost to sight. The thunder
of his retreating hoofs was heard for a few
minutes ; and then there was complete silence
and solitude.

What am I to do ! ' exclaimed Nellie, half
laughing, half crying. Her hat was a shapeless
ruin, her habit was in rags, her face was bleeding
from the scratches of the briery hedge, she was
covered with mud from head to foot, and she
was a good five miles from home. As to what
she was to do, that was a question which demanded
no long consideration, there being only

one thing to be done ; she must make her way
home on foot. But, although Miss Brune soon
realised this necessity, she was not at all so sure
that her strength was equal to the task that lay
before her. She began to feel the effects of her
fall in aching limbs and a swimming head, and
the exercise which she had taken in the last half-hour
had reduced her to something very like
complete exhaustion. However, she stumbled
out of the ploughed field, crossed a pasture, and
ere long struck a faintly-marked track which
she knew would lead her across the downs to
Broom Leas.

The experienced novel-reader will perceive
that the moment has now arrived for the introduction
upon the scene of the deus ex behind ;
and sure enough before Nellie had plodded a
quarter of a mile between the cart-ruts that
marked her path, he duly made his appearance
in the form of one whom she had supposed to be
many miles away at that time. In her sorry
plight, dignity and conventionality were burdens
too petty to be remembered : accordingly,
when the equestrian who was approaching
her at a foot's pace pulled up, and exclaimed,
in accents of stupefaction, ' God bless my soul!
is that Miss Brune ? ' she replied with unaffected
warmth —

^ Oh, Mr. Stanniforth, I am so delighted to

see you ! I began to think I should have to lie
down and die in a ditch.'

Mr. Stanniforth had at once dismounted, and
was too busy inquiring into the nature of the
accident that had befallen Miss Brune to give
any explanation of his own presence. It was
not until she had assured him at least a dozen
times that she had received no hurt beyond a
few scratches, and that all she at present desired
was to find some means of reaching home before
the spectacle of the riderless grey should have
frightened her father out of his senses, that he
consented to give an account of himself. He
was staying at Longbourne, he said. He had
come down quite suddenly, finding that he had
a few days at his disposal ; he had ridden out
after luncheon, in hopes that he might fall
in with the hounds, but had failed to do so,
and was now very glad indeed that he had
failed.

I suppose Mrs. Winnington and Edith have
come back,' observed Nellie, who had now had
time to bethink herself of many things which
the first sight of a friendly face had driven out
of her remembrance, and whose manner had
consequently become much more formal.

No, they haven't,' answered Tom, glancing
at her quickly; ' they are — somewhere or other.
Margaret told me Adhere it was, but I'm sure I

VOL. II. I

forget. Why should you suppose they had returned
? '

^ Oh, I don't know ; I thought perhaps they
might answered Miss Brune with ostentatious
carelessness. ' I wish I could get home somehow;
my father will certainly think I am killed.
Can't you suggest something?'

Well — unless you were to ride my horse.
But you could hardly do that.'

No, hardly. There is a farmhouse about a
mile further on which I could easily find my
way to ; and if they only knew at home that I
was there, they could send for me. Couldn't
sou ride on and tell them ? '

Yes, I could do that, of course,' answered
Mr. Stanniforth slowly, and with evident reluctance.
' But I don't think you ought to be
left alone here.'

'Why not?' inquired Nellie, turning an
astonished pair of eyes upon him. ' What
harm could possibly happen to me? I should
be so very much obliged if you would go on as
quickly as you can ; it would be so much the
.best way.'

If you tell me to go I must go ; but I feel
sure that your father would much prefer my
seeing you into a place of safety. You really
are not fit to walk without help, and if you will
allow me to give you my arm '

Xellie said she T\'as perfectly well able to
walk by herself, and required both her hands to
hold up her habit.

And besides,' continued Tom, ^ my getting
to Broom Leas a quarter of an hour sooner or
later can make very little difference. Either
sour horse has gone straight back to his stables,
in which case he is there by this time, or he has
gone off in the other direction — which from
your account seems more likely — and will probably
be heard of next in Crayminster. Do let
me take you as far as that farm, and I promise
you that the moment I have handed you over to
the farmer's Avise, I will be off to Broom Leas
like the wind.'

Nellie did not give her consent to this
arrangement ; but, as she did not withhold it
either, Mr. Stanniforth let well alone, and said
no more.' They walked on, side by side, in
silence for some little time, and then he took up
the conversation at the point where it had been
broken off.

Did you mean to say just now,' he asked
abruptly, ' that it must have been in order to
see the Winningtons that I had come here ? '

Really, I had not thought much about the
matter. It wouldn't be very extraordinary if
you had come here in order to see them, would
it? I thought you liked them so much.'

I 2

^ So I do,' he answered resolutely ; ' I think
they are very nice people — especially Miss
Winnington. But it wasn't to see them that
I came here, all the same.'

'Oh!'

If you care to know why it was that I
came '

Thanks ; I don't care to know at all,' interrupted
Nellie hastily ; for in an instant she had
guessed what was coming, and she was determined
to stop it, if she could. 'Where have
you been since you left these parts ? '

Had she known Mr. Stanniforth as well as
some of his colleagues in the House of Commons
knew him, she would have been aware that to
stop that excellent man when once he had made
up his mind to deliver himself of a statement
was to the full as hopeless a task as to pull up
Wasp in mid career.

'All right,' he answered cheerfully; 'then I'll
tell you, though you don't care to hear. I
should have to tell you sooner or later, and
why not now as well as at any other time ? I
came here because I hoped to see you.'

It was then that the impossibility of assuming
a cold and majestic mien with a broken hat cocked
rakishly over one eye, and a countenance disfigured
by many scratches, made itself painfully
manifest to Miss Brune.

'Well,' she said, laughing nervously, 'you
have seen me now, and it is to be hoped that
you are satisfied. I sincerely trust that no other
stranger will see me for at least a week.'

But you don't call me a stranger, do you? '
asked Tom reproachfully. And, getting no
answer to this query, he continued, in a low
and slightly hoarse voice, ' Miss Brune, I am
generally considered to be a tolerably ready
speaker; but there are some things that a man
feels too strongly about to be able to express in
the best words ; and I don't know how to say
what I ai going to say to you, though Heaven
knows 1 have thought about it often enough.'
He paused for a moment. ' There is a great
deal that might be said about difference of age
and — other things,' he resumed, 'but perhaps
you will understand, without my mentioning it,
that I fully feel the force of all that, and that I
am not making use of any conventional form of
words when I say that I know myself to be not
nearly good enough for you. Only this I can
say for myself, that I never loved any woman
but you in my life, and never shall. It is rather
odd for a man of my age to be able to make
such an assertion ; but I don't know, after all,
why it should help me much. It all comes to
much the same thing in the end. It's just a
case of Yes or No.'

Having put the case in this very explicit
manner, Mr. Stanniforth stood still, and paused
for a reply.

Now to be driven into a corner is what no
woman likes ; and Nellie considered that she
had especial reason for resenting such treatment.


If I had supposed for one moment that you
were going to speak in this way,' she said
tremulously, ' I should not have allowed you
to walk with me. I don't think you ought to —
to have taken advantage of '

'But is it to be Yes or No?' persisted this
somewhat peremptory wooer, too eager for his
answer to notice the appeal made to his generosity.
' Only tell me that, and I won't say
another word.'

Oh, dear,' exclaimed Nellie, bursting into a
rather hysterical laugh, * how ridiculous this is !
I wonder whether anybody in the world but you
would ever have dreamt of choosing such a time
as this to — to mention such a subject. I can't
think of anything at all, except of how dreadfully
tired I am. Is that the farm over there? Oh,
I hope it is.'

But, Miss Brune — Nellie — won't you just
tell me whether it is to be No.'

Very well, then,' cried Nellie, stamping
her foot in exasperation, 4t is No — of course

it is No ! I didn't want to be disagreeable, but
you will have it. It is Xo ; I can't say anything
more.'

It was true enough that she could not say
anything more. The agitations of the day had
completely broken down her self-control at last,
and, despite all her efforts, the tears had forced
their way into her eyes. It was all that she
could do to avoid disgracing herself by bursting
into audible weeping.

But Tom Stanniforth, who was looking
straight before him, did not see these signs of
distress. Xot another word did he speak until
they had reached the farmhouse and he had
delivered his charge into the hands of the
farmer's wife. But just before he mounted
his horse, he held out his hand to Xellie. and
said —

Good-bye, Miss Brune. I shan't bother
you by letting you see me again till you have
forgotten all this. I am sorry if I caused you
any annoyance just now ; and I know you are
kind-hearted enough to be a little sorry for me
too. It was quite true, what I told j^ou about
my never caring for anybody else. I hope
you'll believe that, and that you'll forgive me
if I have seemed a little presumptuous. I had
to say it, you knovr.'

Xellie nodded, being; unable to find her

voice ; and so he rode off, and was soon out of
sight.

Late that evening Mr. Brune, who had
scoured the country far and wide in search of
his daughter, and had thus been spared the
shock of encountering Wasp, who had trotted
quietly back to the stables, remarked that Tom
Stanniforth really seemed to have behaved with
great sense and consideration.

I shall always like Tom,' he said ; ' a true
gentleman in every way, whatever you may say
about his pedigree. I can't understand what
you find to dislike in him.'

I don't dislike him,' answered Nellie
humbly ; ' I think he is very kind.'

But you look down upon him, Lord knows
why! One gets odd ideas into one's head; I
suppose it's a sign of old age creeping on,' continued
Mr. Brune musingly ; ' but I couldn't
help thinking to-day what a capital thing it
would have been if you and he had taken to
each other, and if he ]had married you instead of
Edith. Don't make faces, my dear, I am only
indulging in speculations ; and, dear me ! what
a speculation that would have been, when you
come to think of it ! I suppose Tom Stanniforth
will be one of the richest men in England ; and,
upon my word, 1 believe he will be one of the

best husbands too. I don't grudge Mrs. Winnington
her luck ; but it must be confessed that
she does have luck.'

Xellie made no answer, except to point out
that it was long past bed-time.

CHAPTER XVIII.

PHILIP GOES INTO SOCIETY.

At the moment when Mr. Brune was giving
way to mercenary aspirations, as recorded
above, the subject of his regrets was sitting
before a blazing fire in the smoking-room at
Longbourne, smoking one of the excellent cigars
of which a stock was always to be found in that
well-ordered establishment, and enjoying, or appearing
to enjoy, the creature comforts incidental
to the situation. It was his sister-in-law who
had suggested to him that, as they were alone
in the house, they should betake themselves to
this cosy little apartment immediately after
dinner, asserting, as kind-hearted ladies do
sometimes (and Heaven only knows whether
they are speaking the truth, or whether it is not
an act of selfish brutality to take them at their
word), that she liked the smell of tobacco, and
that to spend the evening in the smoking-room,
instead of in the drawing-room, was an
unwonted treat to her.

It reminded her, she said, of old days, when
she used to sit with Jack after dinner. Perhaps
she wanted an excuse for talking about Jack ;
and on ordinary occasions Tom. who had had a
sincere affection for his younger brother, would
have been willing enough to gratify her ; but
this evening his thoughts were, not unnaturally,
centred upon himself, and with a very little encouragement
he would have related the whole
history of his disappointed hopes. Thus, these
two people, who had become excellent friends,
and who were both inclined just now to claim a
little of the sympathy to which friendship is
entitled, remained for some time at cross purposes,
each throwing out hints to which the
other failed to respond, until it became evident
that some topic of common interest must be
resorted to. This was in Tom's favour ; for
when the conversation languished, it was inevitable
that the adventure of the day should
suggest itself as the ground for a fresh start,
and so he soon found an opportunity of remarking,
in a casual manner, that he supposed so
pretty a girl as Miss Brune would not be likely
to remain Miss Brune much longer.

I don't think she will be in a hurry to
marry,' Margaret said. ' Xellie has a good deal
of character, and she will be sure to think well
before she chooses.'

If she has not chosen already.'

Yes, if she has not chosen already. There
are perhaps half a dozen marriageable young
men hereabouts, and I believe they are all of
them devoted to her in an oiF-and-on sort of
way.'

Is there anybody in particular, should you
suppose ? ' inquired Mr. Stanniforth, staring up
at the cornice.

Margaret poked the fire, and made no reply ;
so he went on, ' I used to fancy that young
Marescalchi was paying her a good deal of attention,
but perhaps it didn't mean anything.'

Margaret laughed ; whereupon her interrogator
withdrew his eyes from the ceiling with
great promptitude, glanced inquiringly at her,
saw it all, and immediately dropped into a
gloomy reverie.

I am glad you noticed that,' said the unconscious
Margaret, ' for I have always thought
that those two were exactly suited to one another,
and hoped that something might come of it
some day. But I have given up match-making,'
she added with a shake of her head. ' I have
made one or two attempts in that way, and the
results have not been encouraging. I suppose
people must be allowed to choose for themselves.'


But Mr. Stanniforth was no longer anxious

to pursue the subject, and indeed had not distinctly
heard the last few words. ' Oh, yes,
certainly, I quite agree with you,' he said ; and
then began to talk very fast about habitual
drunkards, in which unfortunate class of society
he had been lately stirred up to take a keen
interest. He had a comprehensive scheme for
dealing with them in their double character of
afflicted fellow-creatures and responsible members
of the community ; but as the carrying
out of this project would have involved the expenditure
of some millions of the public money,
besides interfering with the liberty of the subject
after a fashion conceivable only to enlightened
Radical brains, the reader need not be wearied
with its provisions. Margaret listened to them
patiently, argued against them, was triumphantly
silenced, and ultimately went to bed with a consolatory
assurance that she had done what was
expected of her.

At breakfast the next morning, Mr. Tannin
who had passed a bad night, looked up
from a pile of opened letters that lay before him,
and said that he was very sorry, but he was
afraid he must be oflP. He had spent the first
half of the recess in unwonted idleness, and
would now have to work hard to make up
time. The habitual drunkards, it appeared, were
clamouring for attention ; the anti-vivisectionists

were about to hold meetings in various places at
which the presence of the member for Blackport
would be indispensable ; the insufficiency of
railway servants, and consequent alarming increase
of accidents, was likewise a subject that
seemed to require looking into ; so that, upon
the whole, it came to this, that he would have
to leave by the twelve o'clock train.

Margaret expressed her surprise and regret
at this sudden change of plans, but was hardly
so much afflicted by it as she might have been,
had not the post brought her her own share of
disquieting correspondence in the shape of an
announcement from Philip that he had finally
made up his mind to abandon the law in favour
of the operatic stage.

I have been thinking about this for a longtime,'
he wrote, ' but I would not tell you until
I was tolerably sure of success, because I wanted
to spare you needless worry, and I knew you
would be rather horrified at first. Don't breathe
a word about it to anybody just yet — it would
only set the whole pack of them baying at you
if you did — but think it over quietly, and I am
sure you'll agree that I might do worse. Old
Steinberger (perhaps you have never heard of
him, but he is a celebrity nevertheless) — Stein-bergen
says my high notes only want practice to
be as good as Rachel's (I daresay you have

never heard of Rachel either) ; and, if all goes
well, I ought, in a few years' time, to jump to
the top of the tree at one bound. Is there any
other profession in the world in which such a
coup as that would be at all possible ? As for
the social position, anybody will tell you that
great singers are received everywhere in these
days ; and between ourselves, my dear old Meg,
who am I to give myself airs ? The nuisance
of it is that living in London, and having the
best masters, and all that, costs a lot of money ;
but I must economise, and I daresay I shall
manage to get on somehow. The rapidity with
which a five-pound note melts away here is
awful. Cab-hire alone ' — &c., &c.

The remainder of the letter contained a good
many hints of this delicate nature, for Philip
seldom asked directly for money, that being a
course of procedure which went against his finer
feelings.

Money, however, was what he was at this
time in urgent need of; and, but for this circumstance,
it is probable that Margaret would
have been allowed to remain for some time
longer in ignorance of his schemes. One reason
in particular he had for desiring that his coffers
should be replenished : namely, that he contemplated
a change of domicile. The remote
situation of Coomassie Villa — half a day's journey

from the Club, as he would often pathetically
remark — was causing him daily inconvenience,
and he no longer dreaded the risk attaching to
residence in a more frequented quarter ; for he
was beginning to feel convinced of the truth of
the common saying that one is never so much
alone as in a crowd. It was, however, quite
certain that the suburban butcher, baker, and
grocer would not suffer him to depart until their
several little accounts had been defrayed ; and
therefore it was that he awaited Margaret's
answer with no small impatience, and that,
when the answer came, he was a great deal
more anxious to examine the figure of the
cheque contained in the envelope than the accompanying
eight pages of manuscript. But
he did read the latter as soon as he had ascertained
the satisfactory nature of the former, and
was a good deal touched by Margaret's kindness
and generosity.

Nothing, indeed, could have been more moderate
than the tone of her reply. She did not
deny that Philip's news had startled her, nor
that she had certain misgivings as to the social
position about which lie had expressed himself
so confidently ; but she admitted that he was
better able to judge of such questions than she
could be, and further, that he had a perfect
right to choose his calling in life for himself;

the one essential thing, for him and everybody
else, Alas to have a calling of some kind or
other. She then went on to make some very
true, if not very original, observations on the
solaces of labour, which Philip skimmed over
rapidly, and concluded by thanking him for
having taken her into his confidence. In a
postscript she added that she was sure his
expenses must be heavier than he could conveniently
manage, and that she therefore enclosed
a trifle, which she hoped would help to
lighten them for a time.

There was a pleasing provisional sort ot
sound about the last three words which Philip
did not fail to note and appreciate.

'Fan,' said he gravely, as he folded up the
letter, ' if the baby should die, and I should be
cut off in my prime, immediately after realising
a handsome fortune on the boards of the
Italian Opera, don't you take it into your foolish
little head to adopt an orphan. Unless he turned
out to be very unlike some other orphans whom
I have heard tell of, he would be a burden to
you all your life, he would take your last penny
from you with absolute complacency, and at the
bottom of his heart he would think you rather
a fool for giving it to him.'

The awful possibilities foreshadowed in this

VOL, II. K

speech were too much for Mrs. Marescalchi, who
began to crv.

Now, now, Fan remonstrated Philip, ' you
ought to know me better by this time than to
take every word I say so seriously. Vm not
really such an ungrateful beggar as I make myself
out ; and as for dear old Meg, it's a positive
delight to her to throw her money out of window.
If I didn't pick it up, you may be sure that
somebody else would — perhaps a less deserving
person.'

^ Oh, but Philip,' sobbed Fanny, ' how could
you talk like that about — about your dying?
And dear baby, too ! I can't bear to hear you
say such things.'

Oh, is that it ? ' said Philip, much amused.
I think you may feel reassured, then. In point
of physical health I can safely speak of myself
in the highest terms, and I don't see a symptom
of anything wrong with baby, unless it's excess
of fat. So dry your eyes, Fan, and I'll go out
and search for lodgings in some more civilised
district.'

Of this task Philip discharged himself with
due circumspection. It might be permissible to
be bold, but it would not do to be too bold ; and
therefore he decided to eschew such favourite
localities as Charges Street and the like, where
people from Crayminster or the neighbourhood

might at any time establish themselves next
door to you for a week or two. The other side
of Bond Street was quite as handy and less
dangerous ; and chancing upon a tolerably, commodious
first floor in Conduit Street, which at
that season of the year was to be had for a
moderate weekly rental, he agreed to take it.
Thither, in the course of a few days, he transplanted
his belongings, and there for a time he
dwelt in prosperity and contentment, no man
forbidding him.

When Philip walks down Conduit Street
nowadays the smile with which he habitually
faces the world and all that therein is fades from
his expressive countenance, and as he passes a
certain house, and glances up at its first-floor
window, he does not fail to pay the tribute of a
sigh to the memory of hours gone, never to
return. He may have forgotten, as most of us
do, when looking back upon the past, many a
small rub, anxiety, or annoyance ; but the fact
still remains that his life during the first part of
that winter season was one that agreed with his
tastes to a nicety. The lodgings, though not actually
luxurious, were as comfortable as London
lodgings ever are ; they were kept by a worthy
couple whose hearts were at once conquered by
the baby, who were kind to Fanny, and not as
inquisitive as the servants at Coomassie Villa

K 2

had been ; and if the cooking left something to
be desired, this was but a small drawback to
Philip, since he was so frequently obliged to
dine away from home.

It was not only to the Temple that he went
when he thus absented himself, nor was the obligation
in question by any means of a stringent
nature ; but, as Philip was careful to explain, it
was not on that account the less real. It would
never do for him to refuse invitations, he said,
and to allow people to forget him. Social interest
and social influences were of the greatest importance
to a man who had to make his own way
in the world, and counted for more in the profession
that he had chosen than the uninitiated
might suppose. He gave instances of artists
who had obtained the most lucrative engagements
by securing the good word of a certain
monomania nobleman, and of others who had
met with all manner of slights and obstacles
simply through having failed to please the same
potent individual.

But, indeed, he need not have taken so much
pains to excuse himself. Fanny was, in the
first place, firmly convinced that her lord and
master could do no wrong ; and, in the second,
she would have put up with any amount of
personal inconvenience rather than have defrauded
lira of the least of his amusements.

Any one who should have suggested to her that
she was a neglected wife would have occasioned
her quite as much surprise as anger. For her
own part she had never been able to accustom
herself to late dinner, and greatly preferred a
cup of tea and some hot buttered toast at six
o'clock. When the baby had been tucked up
for the night, and the nurse, after an hour or so
of pleasant gossip over the cradle, had also gone
to bed, Mrs. Marescalchi would get out some of
the books by means of which she was perfecting
her education, draw up her chair to
the fire, and prepare for a solitary evening,
without the faintest suspicion that she was a
person whose lot any one would venture to
pity.

Sometimes Philip did not come in until long
after midnight ; for there were evening parties
as well as dinners at which he felt it his duty
to be present ; but, early or late, he always
found his wife sitting up for him on his return
■ — a little pale perhaps, but ever in the best of
spirits, and not in the least sleepy, as she unhesitatingly
declared, if he remonstrated with
her on not having; sone to bed. There was a
cheerful fire, there were his slippers and his
velvet smoking-coat, and his particular armchair
all ready for him ; on the table were the
little cut-glass decanters which Fanny had purchased

for him out of her own pocket-money,
knowing that he liked pretty things, and the
seltzer water, and a plate of sandwiches, in case
he should feel exhausted after all the labours of
the evening.

When Philip had made himself quite comfortable,
Fanny would seat herself upon a footstool
beside hun, with her little flaxen head
resting against his knee, and coax him to tell
her about all the lords and ladies ; and then he
would indemnify himself for many hours of
enforced self-restraint by taking off the little
peculiarities of those to whose coat-tails and
apron-strings he was clinging in the hope of
being upheld by them until he should be in a
position to dispense with such aid. His keen
sense of the ridiculous stood in need of some
vent of this kind ; and it was as much to amuse
himself that he acted as to amuse Fanny, upon
whom some of the finer touches of his mimicry
were somewhat thrown away. Yet it is probable
that her enjoyment of these midnight
performances was greater even than his ; and
upon one occasion the old gentleman who
lodged on the second floor came down in his
dressing-gown to say that, if there was a joke,
he should take it as a favour if he might be let
into it, so that, since it appeared that he was to
be deprived of sleep by the noise of laughter

from beloTT, he might at least have the satisfaction
of being able to laugh too.

There was a time, not so very long ago,
when London in the winter was a city of the
dead, so far as people who wished to be considered
fashionable were concerned ; but all that
is changed now. Society has greatly enlarged
itself ; people whose professions require them to
spend the greater part of the year in the metropolis
are allowed to call themselves fashionable
in spite of that necessity ; other people, who are
in the proud position of requiring no profession,
occupy their town houses every now and again,
and receive their friends there : there is less of a
crowd and bustle than in the spring, but there is
more sociability; and a young man who has talents
of a certain kind and a sufficiently large acquaintance,
need have no fear that his time will hang
heavily upon his hands. Philip's talents were
of the most popular order, being such as contributed
directly to the amusement of his fellow-creatures,
and it soon became understood that
he was living in London, and that a note addressed
to his Club would find him. Hitherto
he had been chiefly known as a good-looking
young man with a turn for amateur theatricals ;
he had now acquired a fresh claim to attention
in the possession of a wonderful tenor voice ;
and this gift served him as a passport into many

houses which would otherwise have remained
closed to him. He accepted all invitations from
great and small alike ; and this would doubtless
have been good policy upon his part, if he had
been pursuing a policy at all ; but the probability
is that he was doing nothing of the sort. He was
not really ambitious, nor was it in him to look
far ahead. He went everywhere, because it
amused him to do so, and because he had no
particular leaning towards one class of society
more than another. He did not inform his
friends and patrons that he proposed eventually
to appear upon the stage, judging that the time
was not yet ripe for that announcement ; but
when some of them suggested to him that a
voice like his ought to be public property, and
that if he decided to make it so, he might
almost command his own price for it, he
thanked them for their hint, laughed, and said —
Well, perhaps that might be worth taking into
account. In the meantime he was good-naturedly
willing to eat their dinners and amuse
their other guests and sing for them as often as
they asked him to do so.

Herr Steinberu'er, whose avocations took him
to most of the musical parties and private concerts
that were going, did not altogether approve
of all this. One evening, after hearing Philip
sing a duo from the Traviata with the famous

Signora Tommasini before some three or four
hundred people, he caught his pupil by the
elbow, and having led, or rather pushed, him
into a corner, began to scold him roundly

"What do you mean by this ? ' said the
irascible little man. ' It is a preach of contract !
Did I not tell you I would not have you sing
in public ? '

Don't be rude and disagreeable, Stein-bergen,'
said Philip, who was now on terms of
familiarity with his master and was not at all
afraid of him ; ' this isn't singing in public. I
am here by invitation, and so. I suppose, are
you.'

'I am noting of the sort.' returned the
other. ' I am paid ; and if I was not paid I
would be smoking my pipe at home. Do you
think I come out at night to hear you sing
Frigid cava ? '

Well, well,' said Philip ; • I am not paid, at
all events, and the question of payment was
what our agreement referred to, wasn't it ? I
quite understand that you will expect to have a
percentage off my earnings, when I make any ? '

^ I do not want your money,' growled the
German, reddening ; ' I want that you should
be a credit to me. And that you will never be,
if you let yourself be flattered by the old 
and spoilt by all these ladies, and give up

your work. You work no more as you did ;
you are getting lazy and consented — you will goto
the teffel ! ' And he turned on his heel and
walked off, fuming.

But when Philip went to take his lesson as
usual, the next morning, Steinberger recurred to
the subject.

You think you learn to sing that way ?
You think, because they all clap last night, that
you sing like the Tommasini? The Tommasini
she is bolt, she is past her day ; but if she would
have let out her voice, she would have lift the
roof off that miserable little room ; while you !
one could not hear you on the stairs. How
often must I tell you to open your mouth wide
so ! — as if you would sclncallow the audience?
When will you learn to do like this? '

And Steinberger opened his own great jaws
to their utmost capacity, struck a terrific din
out of the piano with his fat fingers, and attacked
the same air that his pupil had warbled
so sweetly on the previous night — ' Ba-harichi^
olio ga-ra ! '

Philip burst into a shout of laughter. ' No,
no, Steinberger, I shall never be able to sing
like that.'

Ah, you may laugh,' said the other, whose
voice in truth was more powerful than melodious
; ^ but what is your English proverb ? —

'^ Let him lauo'K who wins." And we have a
German proverb too, which says, " Zest list GeldJ^
And you will never win anything at all, my
orient, if sou spend your time at evening
barties.^

Philip did not allow his peace of mind to be
disturbed by any such prognostications as these.
He knew that Steinberger was fond of scolding,
and would have found something else to grumble
at in default of the present pretext. He himself
thought he was getting on famously. And
then it was such a jolly life ! Nobody bothered
him ; nobody asked questions ; nobody wanted
to know where he lived, or what he was
doing when he was not at the Club or in
society. Even AValter, whom he saw occasionally,
had not inquired his address. Walter,
fortunately, was busy from morning till night,
and was quite content to dine with his friend at
the Club on Sundays, and refresh himself with a
talk about Oxford and cricket. Philip, after
having for many years of his life looked up to
Walter with reverence and some little awe, now
found their respective positions reversed, and
was rather disposed to patronise his former protector,
who was only a clerk in a bank, entirely
out of it ' as regarded the gay world, and ridiculously
ignorant of London and its ways.
Brune would get up and say good-night with a

grave face, when Lord Salford dropped in after
dinner and proposed to Philip to adjourn to
another Club, where they could play poker.
No doubt he was thinking that Sunday evening
might be better employed than in this manner,
and that Philip could hardly have been worse
employed, on any evening of the week, than in
staking his slender purse against Lord Salford's
inexhaustible one.

The latter young man used sometimes to
allude to Fanny in a way which it could not
have been very pleasant for her husband to
listen to, and once he threw our poor hero into
a cold perspiration by suddenly fixing his little
red eyes upon him, and saying, ' I believe you
know more about her than anybody else,
Marescalchi.' But this was probably only a
random shot ; and as Philip kept his countenance,
and declared that he had neither seen
nor heard of the girl for more than a year, the
subject dropped, and there seemed little fear of
his secret being; discovered.

The discovery of such secrets as his can,
however, only be a question of time ; and
considering hoar few precautions Philip had
thought it necessary to take, it was rather
strange that he should have been able to remain
a matter of two months in Conduit Street without
any of his friends suspecting him of being a

married man. One old friend found him out at
last in the simplest and most natural manner in
the world.

Colonel Kenyon, after having been baked
and enervated for ten years in the Madras
Presidency, had been sent by a considerate
country to recruit himself on the heights of
Shorncliife, where the wind is always in the east,
except when it blows a strong gale from the
south-west, and where the general aspect of
things during the winter time is about as cheerful
as that of a Central Asian steppe. Pinched
and shivering in this high-lying region, and
brooding daily over the puzzle of existence and
the hardships of a soldier's life, the poor man
would have been almost inclined to gratify
several promising brother-officers by resigning
his commission, had not a letter from Long-bourne
come from time to time to cheer him up.
These communications were at first somewhat
stiff and formal ; but as the replies which they
elicited were quite as constrained in character,
and a great deal more awkward, it was but
natural that Margaret should try to make some
advance towards the renewal of a friendship so
unhappily disturbed, and to show that she, on
her side, was ready to forgive and forget.
Thus by degrees the tone of this long sustained
correspondence slipped back into its accustomed

groove, and before the year was out, Hugh could
look forward to receiving his weekly budget of
news just as of old.

It was in the month of January that Margaret
for the first time informed him of Philip's change
of plans. She had not mentioned it before, she
said, because she had not felt quite at liberty todo
so ; * and I should not mention it now,' she
added, 'only that I know I am perfectly safe
in telling you anything ; and I should so very
much like to hear what you think of it all. Do
you ever go up to London for a day or two ? If
you do, I wish you would try to see Philip one

day at the Club, and let me know how he

is looking, and whether he seems in good
spirits about himself. I don't like to bother
him with questions; but I have felt uneasy
about him lately. He writes very seldom, and
he never came to see me at Christmas, though it
had been arranged that he was to come down
for a week. I give you full leave to laugh at
me ; but I can't help having a feeling that
something is wrong,' — &c. &c.

Colonel Kenyon did not laugh. He thought
it exceedingly likely that something might be
Wrong, and for his own part was not particularly
anxious to find out what that something might
be. It is not pleasant to pry into the private
affairs of one's neighbours, nor is it pleasant to

be the bearer of bad nevers. He did not, however,
suffer these considerations to "weigh with
him, but, like the docile slave that he was, took
a return-ticket to London, and presented himself
at Philip's Club that same afternoon. Mr,
Marescalchi was not there, and the Colonel,
having only a few hours to spare, asked for his
address. This was readily given to him by the
porter, who had not been told to observe any
secresy in the matter ; and so it came to pass
that Colonel Kenyon reached Conduit Street justin
time to see Philip step out of a hired
brougham, followed by a young lady, who
carried a baby in her arms. The young lady
Hugh at once recognised as the same whom he
had encountered in Philip's company on a former
occasion, and the presence of the baby was a fact
the significance of which there was no misinterpreted.
The whole truth flashed instantly into
the intelligence of the astounded spectator.

Oh, you unspeakable young ass ! ' he muttered
; ' you have done for yourself now, and no
mistake. Mercy upon us ! how am I to tell
Margaret of this ? I won't tell her — I'll be
hanged if I will! Let the young beggar do it
himself. The question is, shall I go and have it
out with him, or shall I wash my hands of the
whole business ? '

While Hugh was standing doubting on the

pavement, Philip and Fanny had entered the
house. Neither of them had noticed, in the
gloom of the winter afternoon, the tall figure
that had remained motionless within a few yards
of them as they hurried in out of the cold. The
Colonel took two turns up and down the street,
and considered of it. Finally he decided that
he would not attempt to see Philip that day. It
would hardly be fair, and it would certainly be
most embarrassing, to walk straight into the
presence of Mrs. Philip ; moreover, a man must
have a little time to prepare himself for interviews
of this disagreeable kind. Xo ; he would
come up to town another day, and try the Club
again ; and in the meantime surely he was not
bound to tell Margaret what he had accidentally
seen.

Now it so happened that a series of trivial
accidents prevented Colonel Kenyon from carrying
out his intention as speedily as he could
have wished. To begin with, he was short of
officers, having good-naturedly allowed too many
of them to go away on leave. Then the General
commanding; the district took it into his head
unexpectedly to hold a field-day. Then came
three courts-martial within a few days of each
other ; and then occurred the vexatious case of
Driver Jennings.

Driver Jennings, a mild-mannered man,

having obtained permission to remain at Folkestone
till midnight in order to soothe the last
moments of an aged relative, returned to camp
very drunk, at an advanced hour, and was
seized with a notion that it mio^ht contribute to
the general hilarity if he were to ' set the 'ole
blooming place afire.' He accordingly collected
many furze-faggots, piled them up as neatly as
could have been expected from one in his condition,
applied matches and paper to the bottom of
the structure, and then proceeded to lie down
upon the top of it himself, like an Indian widow.
Here he would doubtless have perished miserably,
had he not been dragged off by the heels, in a
somewhat charred condition, by Colonel Kenyon
himself, close to whose door this auto-da-fe had
been kindled. A very pretty blaze was by this
time lighting up the surrounding district ; and
although no great damage was done, the whole
camp had turned out to extinguish the flames,
and Driver Jennings was led away, weeping
bitterly, to be locked up. The whole affair
gave the good Colonel much annoyance ; for the
man had been his own servant, and between
Jennings drunk and Jennings sober there was all
the difference in the world. Moreover, Mrs.
Jennings washed for him, and there were
numerous little Jennings. He therefore felt
bound to remain upon the spot, and see what

VOL. IL L

could be done in a quiet way towards mitigating
the punishment due to so heinous an offence ;
and so, what with one thing and another, a
fortnight sipped away before Colonel Kenyon
again inquired for Philip at his Club. Once
more he was disappointed of finding the object
of his search ; and this time the porter added
that he had not seen Mr. Marescalchi for three
or four days, and believed he must be out of
town.

Hugh sighed, and walked straight off to
Conduit Street, inwardly hoping that the
porter's conjecture might prove correct. Should
it be so, he would have done all that could be
required of him, and might write to Margaret
explaining that he had failed to discover anything
about the young man, good, bad, or
indifferent.

However, the fat landlady who opened the
door for him said Yes ; Mr. Marescalchi was at
home.

And — er — Mrs. Marescalchi ? ' asked the
Colonel hesitatingly.

Yes, sir ; they're both in. But I don't
know as they'd care for to see any one.'

The woman's eyes were red, and her tone
-was so lugubrious that Hugh naturally asked
whether anything was the matter.

Oh, dear me, yes, sir ; they've had a sad

misfortune', pore things. The dear little baby
was took with convulsions day before yesterday,
sir, and died in a few hours. Such a fine
healthy child too ! — but you never can tell how
'twill go with their first teeth ; and 'tis the will
of Heaven, which we must all submit to.'

God bless my soul ! I am very sorry to hear
this.' said the tender-hearted Huo'h, much concerned.
' It must be a terrible blow to — to the
poor mother.'

He had had time to reflect, rather unjustly,
that the calamity was not one which would be
likely to afflict Philip very much.

Ah, you may say that, sir. And to Mr.
Marescalchi too, pore gentleman ! — he do take
on terrible about it. Should I just mention as
you was here, sir ? It might cheer him up like
to see a friend.'

^ Xo thank you — no,' answered Hugh hurriedly.
' Under the circumstances it would be
better not. Xo, I won't leave a card ; T — it's
of no consequence. Call again, you know,'
and he retreated hastily, leaving the landlady
with a strong suspicion in her mind that the
military-looking gentleman was a dun in
disguise.

It being now beyond a doubt that Philip
Marescalchi was married, was it Colonel
Kenyon's duty to write and inform Margaret

L 2

of the fact? Readers may judge for themselves
upon the point, which is one that seems to
admit of a diversity of opinion. Hugh considered
it carefully during a whole night and
day, and then arrived at the conclusion that he
might hold his peace. Eighty or wrongly, he
had a very strong feeling that there was something
underhand in surprising another man's
secrets ; and he could not help hoping that,
with a little judicious pressure, Philip might be
induced to tell his own tale — which would be so
much the better solution of the difficulty.

It was with this end in view that he penned
a laboriously ambiguous missive, in which he
told Margaret that he had not managed to see
Philip, but that, from certain rumours which
had come to his cars, he was inclined to think
that there was ground for her misgivings,
and that something had gone wrong. But she
must not alarm herself, he added, nor imagine
that things were worse than they were. It was
quite possible that he might have formed a mistaken
notion ; and, in short, the best thing she
could do was to write to the young man himself,
and urge him to make a clean breast of it.

The perversity of women is at the root of
nine-tenths of the worries which make this
world such an uncomfortable place to live in.
When Margaret read Hugh's well-meant letter.

she said to herself that people had no business to
make accusations, unless they were prepared to
substantiate them ; that she was not going to
force herself upon PhiUp's confidence ; that
Hugh was a great deal too ready to suspect evil,
and that she was sorry she had ever written to
him about the matter. And for some time after
this there was a marked coolness in the letters
that were addressed to our patient Colonel at
ShornclifFe.

CHAPTER XIX.

SIGNORA TOMMASINI.

The old gentleman who hoofed ou the second
floor in Conduit Street might go to bed as early
as he pleased now, without any fear of his rest
being disturbed by noise of laughter from below.
Those merry evenings were gone and done with:
they were as dead as the poor little dead baby
who lay six feet deep in Kendal Green — as dead
as the last century — as dead as yesterday. Life
is nothing else than perpetual death and birth,
gain and loss ; ' that which hath been is now ;
and that which is to be hath already been.'
Mirth and sorrow come and go, and are forgotten;
and perhaps, if we would admit it, grief
is the shortest-lived of all our passions.

But that is what no one can bear to acknowledge
; and Philip and his wife were firmly
persuaded that they would never be merry
together any more in the old fashion, never anymore
be tickled by the old jokes (which, to be
sure, had not been intrinsically excellent), never

recover the happiness, the thoughtlessness, the
childishness which had been so suddenly swept
out of their lives. And it so chanced that they
were right ; though the causes of the present
and future change were not what they supposed
or could foresee. If the second-floor lodger had
listened attentively in the silence of the nio;ht,
his ear mio;ht have caught a faint echo of other
and sadder sounds, arising from his neighbours'
drawing-room, than those to which he had become
accustomed. The landlady, who was not
exempt from the failings of landladies in general,
and saw no treat sin in standing: rather close to
a shut door, told her husband that she could
hear ' them pore Marescalchis crying and sobbing,
night after night, as if their pore hearts 'd
break,' and added that it broke her own heart to
listen to them. Her heart, however, continued
to perform its functions much as usual ; as did
that of one, at least, of the mourners, who
stopped crying at the end of ten days or so. A
man can't go on weeping for ever ; and perhaps
there are not a great many men in the world who
would weep over a dead baby even for so long a
time as ten days. Philip's temperament being
what it was, sorrow was an emotion in which he
could indulge just so long as there was something
pleasurable in it, and no longer. When it grew
painful, weary, monotonous, he began to seek

for relief from it just as naturally as he would
have looked about him for sticking-plaister if he
had cut his finger. He picked up the thread of
his daily life again where he had let it fall ; and
surely no reasonable person can blame him for
doing what all reasonable persons urge their
friends to do under such circumstances.

But poor Fanny was by no means reasonable
at this time. Had she been in her ordinary
condition of mind and body, she would have
been the first to acknowledge that her husband's
loss was not, and could not be, as great as hers ;
but she was out of health, her spirits were
broken and her nerves shattered ; and so it
came to pass that community of misfortune,
which often reunites estranged couples, had the
melancholy effect of creating a breach between
this husband and wife, who had hitherto been
the best of friends. The original fault, it must
be acknowledged, lay with Fanny. She made
it a great grievance that Philip declined to wear
mourning ; although he pointed out to her how
hazardous it would be for him to appear in
black without any ostensible reason for so
doing. He ought not to have minded running
that risk, she thought. She, who would have
taken it as a matter of course if her husband had
considered it prudent to pass her without recognition
in the street ; she who had already, by

reason of her ambiguous position, been forced to
bear a hundred petty indignities which she never
spoke of, could not forgive this imaginary slight
to the memory of her dead child. In the same
way, she did 'not complain, either in word or in
thought, of being left alone all day ; but it did
seem to her a terrible and unnatural thing that
her husband should be able to go to the Club,
to resume his sing-vino: lessons, and to show himself
at dinners and concerts just as usual
Philip, in short, ceased to be infallible in her
eyes ; and that was a pity for both their sakes.
If there was one thing that Mr. Marescalchi
hated more than another, it was settled gloom.
A violent outburst of grief he could understand
and participate in ; but a phase of affliction
which expressed itself in gazing blankly for a
whole afternoon at a baby's frock or a pair of
tiny shoes was altogether beyond the range of
his sympathies. It was by virtue of her constant
cheerfulness that Fanny had maintained
her hold upon him so long as she had done.
Now that she was no longer cheerful, no longer
cared to hear about the outer world, no longer
laughed with him, and often forgot to flatter
him, she became simply a dull and rather vulgar
little woman, whose good looks were fading
away daily, and who had absolutely no intellectual
charms to supply their place. He did

not actually say this to himself ; but he felt it ;
and he felt, too, as he had never done before,
what a terrible mistake he had made in marrying
beneath him. He shuddered when he
thought of the future which he had laid up
for himself ; for, careless as he was, he did
sometimes think of this now. He could not
help wondering how it would have been if he
had done as he believed he might have done,
and engaged himself to Nellie Brune. Margaret
had been writing to him a good deal about her
lately, mentioning with transparent artfulness
that the girl seemed depressed and unlike herself.
The inference was obvious, and it was not
displeasing to Philip. Depressed ? — well, no
doubt she might be a little depressed ; but it
would be in a modified and interesting fashion,
he thought. Nellie was not the girl to mope,
like some others whom he knew of. Wasn't it
essentially plebeian to mope? Well-bred people
control their emotions, keep their troubles under
lock and key, and do not obtrude them upon the
world, which naturally cares not a straw whether
they have troubles or not ; and Nellie was
unquestionably well-bred. He had certainly
been very much in love with her at one time ;
perhaps he had never really been in love with
any one else. Now that he came to think of it,
lie was almost sure that he never had been.

Supposing — there was no harm in supposing
impossibilities — that he had been engaged to
her now, how different everything would have
been! What an interest she would have taken
in his prospects! how she would have stirred
him up to work! No one knew so well as
Nellie did the way to apply that gentle goad of
which his languid energies stood in need. And
then, when the victory was won, and money
was pouring in by the sackful on the gifted
primo tenore, what a wife she would have made I
a wife of whom any man might be proud.
Whoever Nellie's future husband may be, he'll
be a deuced lucky chap, and I congratulate him
in advance,' says Philip to himself with much
magnanimity. p

He used to turn these things over in his
mind as he sat by the domestic hearth, with
Fanny staring at the baby's shoes opposite to
him. When he was away from home he had
other things to think about, and probably forgot
that there were such persons as Mrs. Marescalchi
and Miss Brune in existence. This outer Hfe of
his continued to be a gay one ; though it also
had its own troubles. The result of high play
with Lord Salford and other young men of his
calibre was what it generally is when earthen
vessels essay to whirl down stream in company
with brazen ones. Philip was not particularly

unlucky; but when lie won lie spent his winnings,
and when he lost there was apt to be a
little difficulty about paying. He was not, of
course, called upon to hand over the amount due
in any hurry ; but Lord Salford, who always
paid punctually himself, was not so pleasant ashe
might have been to those who remained in
his debt, and was given to reminding them of
how matters stood in a business-like way which
Philip, for one, did not relish. Salford had a
habit of pulling out a notebook, every evening,
as he sat down to the card-table, and beginning
with : ' Now let's see, you haven't paid me for
three weeks. I make out that I'm so and so to
the good. Just look and see if that's right, will
you?'

Oh, it's all right, old fellow ; deal away,'
Philip would answer hastily ; but Lord Salford
would not be put off like that.

Ah, but you look and see if you make it the
same as I do,' he would persist. ' I like to start
square ; because sometimes — don't you know? —
fellows will tell you they don't remember things
don't you know ? '

Philip used to long to kick Lord Salford
when he made insinuations of this kind; but he
couldn't afford to kick his friend, as perhaps
that amiable nobleman was aware ; so he had to
grin and bear it. Considering how high the

stakes were, he pulled through better than
might have been expected. Fortune favoured
him sometimes; and Margaret sent him another
cheque — that being the most practical answer
that she could discover to Colonel Kenyon's
warning letter — which tided him over a bad
week. And then, from time to time, he was
favoured with a loan by a friend of whom a few
words must now be said.

Signora Tommasini had been for so many
years known to the public under that designation
that her friends had long ago given up
addressing her as Mrs. Thompson. It must be
presumed that there had been a Mr. Thompson
once upon a time; but no one had ever seen him
or recollected to have heard his widow mention
his name; nor perhaps was it generally remembered
that she was an English woman by birth;
for in her wanderings about the world she had
picked up many foreign customs and languages,
and was indeed accustomed to say of herself that
she was a cosmopolitan. Her great triumphs
lay in the past ; though she had not yet ceased
to gather laurels, nor (which may have been a
more important matter in her eyes) to receive
handsome salaries. She had once had the finest
contralto voice, and had been one of the handsomest
women in Europe ; and, though so much as
this could no longer be said for her, there were

people who still maintained that she was unapproachable
in the Huguenots, while as for her
face, there were no more wrinkles discernible
upon it, when seen from beyond the footlights,
than there had been twenty years before. The
portliness of her person rendered her, it is true,
a somewhat incredible African to the artistic
eye, but on the other hand she made a very imposing
Azucena. In private life she was a most
good-natured, lively, and agreeable person, fond
of amusement, fond of society, given to a profuse
style of living and careless of her money, after
the traditional fashion of great singers. Many
a struo^o^lino; colleague had had reason to be
grateful for her generosity, and no one had ever
accused her of jealousy of her younger rivals,
towards whom she was accustomed to bear herself
with a great deal of kindly sympathy. It
would hardly, however, have been in human
nature that she should take quite so hearty an
interest in the rising young women as in the
rising young men, and it was as a member of
the latter class that she had first noticed Philip
and sought his acquaintance. The acquaintance,
once made, ripened quickly into a warm friendship;
insomuch that Philip, who loved feminine
admiration more than anything in the world,
had been encouraged to let Signora Tommasini
into the great secret that he was studying for

the stage. After this he liacl proceeded. as time
went on, to tell her of other things — of everything,
indeed, that there was to tell about himself,
barring the trifling circumstance of his
marriage — and had found her an exceedingly
cheery and comforting confidante.

She is in lose with you, that fat woman
Herr Steinberger would growl scornfully. ^ One
of these fine days she will marry you ; and then
you vnll work no more. INTo ! you will live
upon her money for a few years, and then her
voice Tall go, and then you will both of you
sta?if in a garret. Or perhaps she will grind an
organ in the streets, and you will dance, instead
of the monkey — ho ! ho ! '

There was a Teutonic heaviness about Stein-bergen's
pleasantries which might have irritated
some people ; but Philip took them, very good-humouredly.
He rather prided himself upon
being able to stand chafe* ; and, for that matter,
Herr Steinberger was not the only one who
rallied him upon the stout Signora's evident
partiality, and predicted that she would either
lead him to the altar or bring an action for
breach of promise against him before all was
over. He himself partly believed that she had
a weakness for his handsome person, and used
sometimes to laugh with Fanny over the extravagant
compliments which she was in the

habit of paying him, and which he rather
unkindly repeated. After the baby's death,
when things were so sad and dreary at home,
he had solaced himself with a good deal of the
Signora's society, and had even been led, as we
have seen, to give her so true a token of friendship
as to dip into her purse upon occasion.

Signora Tommasini was at this time fulfilling
an engagement at Her Majesty's Theatre, where
a winter opera-season was going on, and was
living in a gorgeous suite of apartments on the
first floor of a fashionable hotel. In these Philip
spent much of his spare time, being sometimes
alone with their occupant, who had graciously
given him to understand that he was at liberty
to knock at her door at any hour of the day,
and sometimes one among a crowd of free-and-easy
visitors. Philip availed himself liberally
of the permission accorded to him; for the
Bohemian company which he encountered in
this way diverted him immensely, and he had a
sincere liking for his open-handed and impulsive
hostess. In his heart he thought her rather an
old fool ; but then he thought that of so many
people whom he liked.

One evening towards the end of January
Philip, having, for a wonder, no engagement,
went to the Opera to se(3 Signora Tommasini in
the Favorite. He made his entrance between

the first and second acts, and recognised many-acquaintances
in different parts of the house,
though none happened to be seated within
speaking distance of his stall. This he was not
sorry for ; for he was in a melancholy vein and
did not feel disposed for social intercourse. He
sat down, and began wondering what would
become of him if a run of ill-luck which had
pursued him for more than a week should
continue much looser. He already owed a
large sum to Lord Salford — a sum so large that
it made him sick to think of it, and that he was
almost inclined to resolve upon abandoning
play altogether, when once he should have
pulled back his losses. Unfortunately, this
process of ' pulling back ' was sure to be a slow
and precarious one, and it might at any time be
checked if Lord Salford should suddenly discover
— as he was by no means unlikely to do —
that he had had enough of London, and was
going in for hunting by way of a change. That,
Philip was very much afraid, would mean settling,
or at all events a confession of inability
to settle. Contemplated from any point of
view, the outlook was not a cheerful one, and
he was growing very mournful over it when
the sound of his own name, pronounced close
to his ear, recalled him to the present.

Marescalchi — Philip Marescalchi, the man

VOL. II. u

who acts, don't you know ? They say he's
going to marry the old girl.'

Marry the Tommasini ! Well, there's no
accounting for tastes.'

My good fellow, it ain't a question of taste.
It's neck or nothing with him.'

'Oh, I see — wants the coin, eh ? Who is
Marescalchi, by the way ? Know him at all ? '

Philip glanced over his shoulder, and saw in
the row of stalls behind him two specimens of
the modern type of juvenile precocity whose
smooth, vacuous moon-faces, surmounting very
stiff collars, were entirely unknown to him.
He was rather amused, therefore, when the
first speaker answered calmly : —

Know him ? oli. yes. I know him. He's
the sort of man who goes everywhere now. His
father was — let me see ; what was his father ?
Something in the City, I think. Left him
thirty thousand pounds, which he made precious
short work of. Hasn't a penny now.'

What's he living on, then ? '

Oh, if you come to that, what are half the
fellows one knows living on ? He does a little
bit of mister Jew, I expect ; but that sort of
game can't be carried on long when you're
nobody's heir, you know. Owes a good lot too,
I believe, here and there. Salford has cleaned
him out of something' like ten thousand, and

can't get him to pay up. I suppose Marescalchi
thinks it's about time for him to marry his
grandmother — no fool either ! '

'Well, I can't understand a fellow selling
himself like that,' says the second youth, who
was perhaps a little less sophisticated than his
companion.

Oh, it don't do to be too particular. Tommy
isn't half a bad sort, and she was a deuced good-looking
woman in her time,' replies the other
man of the world, who could hardly have been
out of the nursery at the epoch alluded to.
Got any amount of the needful, too. Careful
old soul, old Tommy ; been saving up these
twenty years,' he continues. ' Gad ! I'd marry
her myself if she'd ask me.'

The rising of the curtain put an end to this
dialogue, the greater part of which had caused
Philip more amusement than annoyance. He
had no objection to the innocent gossip of these
young gentlemen ; only that allusion to his
losses at play had not been agreeable to him.
What a cad Salford is ! ' he thought angrily.
^ If only I can get it back to even money, I'll
never sit down to a card-table with him again
as long as I live.'

But it was principally in order to banish
Lord Salford and cards from his recollection
that Philip had betaken himself to the theatre ;

y. 2

and feats of that kind were generally well
within his capacity. This evening' he achieved
his object with the greater ease because he had
a genuine appreciation of musical talent, and
because Signora Tommasini happened to be
singing her very best, iter rendering of mio
Fernando was worthy of her most palmy days,
and by no one in the audience was she applauded
more rapturous than by her young friend in
the stalls, upon whom she had already contrived
to bestow a gracious smile of recognition. The
English public, which likes artists of well-established
renown, and is kinder to favourites
who have grown old in its service than any
other public in the world, never failed to accorda
warm welcome to Signora Tommasini ; and
she was greeted with prolonged clapping from
all parts of the house when she came before the
curtain, at the end of the act, to bow her
acknowledgments.

A lady to whose box Philip paid a passing
visit handed him her bouquet, and begged him
to throw it to ' that dear Tommasini ; ' adding,
with a meaning smile, ' She will value it the
more coming from your hand.'

What, you too ! ' cried Philip. ' I have
just overheard an individual who says he knows
me intimately — though I never to my knowledge
set eyes on him before — telling his brotherhood

that I am about to espouse my dear old
fat friend ; and now you are going to put me to
open ridicule by making me cast these flowers
at her feet in the presence of a whole theatre -
full of people.'

I won't ask you to go through such an
ordeal as that,' said the lady, laughing. ' Give
me them back.'

Oh, / don't mind,' answered Philip ; ' I'm
not shy.' And accordingly he did throw the
bouquet at the end of the final duet.

It was quite true that he was not shy ; yet
he might perhaps have stayed his hand if he
had anticipated the little scene that was to
follow. He had intended that his bouquet
should be launched just before the fall of the
curtain ; but in this he had calculated without
the audience, which loudly demanded an encore ;
and when the Signora advanced, all smiles, to
gratify this legitimate wish, what must she
needs do but select Philip's flowers from among
a host of others, and press them against that
part of her ample bodice beneath which her
heart might be supposed to be fluttering, while
she threw a killing glance at the donor. The
poor lady probably meant no harm by this
gesture, which she must have indulged in many
hundreds of times before ; but under all the
circumstances it was a trifle embarrassing.

Philip was aware that during the succeeding
few minutes he was being gazed at by a great
number of inquisitive eyes, and lie was not sorry
when it was all over. He had, however, the
gratification of turning round and facing the
well-informed youth behind him, who had by
this time evidently discovered the identity of
his neighbour, and who looked exceedingly hot
and uncomfortable.

Philip sauntered out, whistling mio Fernando
softly, and presently went behind the
scenes to congratulate Signora Tommasini on
her triumph. After a time she came out of her
dressing-room, and gave a cry of satisfaction on
recognising him.

Ah ! this is lucky,' she exclaimed ; ' you
are just the person whom I wanted to meet. Let
me drive you home, and we can talk as we go.

I saw Lord to-day, and he was asking

about you, and said he wished to make your
acquaintance. You know he is a man who can
do a great deal for people whom he fancies. He
seemed to have an idea that you thought of the
stage ; I didn't tell him ; but he said he had
heard a rumour of it. He asked why you did
not go to Italy. Why don't you go to Italy ?
I shall be singing at Naples and Florence in
the spring ; and if you were there at the same
time I could introduce you to all the musical

people, and to your native country into the
bargain. You ought to see Florence in May ;
there is no city like it in the world. Were you
pleased with me to-night ? I suppose you were,
or you would not have thrown me those beautiful
flowers. I have brought them away with
me, you see.'

Signora Tommasini's idea of conversation
was of rather a one-sided kind. Her ideas
moved even more quickly than her tongue, and
she was for ever pouring out a stream of queries,
without ever expecting any answer, or listening
to it if she obtained one. However, just as she
was stepping into her brougham, she put one
question which demanded a prompt and definite
reply.

By-the-bye,' said she, suddenly, ' where do
you live ? You have never mentioned your
address to me.'

And don't mean to mention it now,' thought
Philip. He said aloud, ' Oh, I'm not going
home yet. You might set me down at the
Club, if it wouldn't be taking you too much out
of your way.'

How mysterious you are ! ' cried the Signora,
reproachfully, as they drove off ; ' you never
tell me anything.'

Xever tell you anything ! Haven't I laid
bare the innermost secrets of my soul to you ?

Haven't I confessed to you what I have never
breathed a word of to anyone else — about my
losses at cards, I mean ? '

Ah, those cards ! ' sighed the Signora
falling into the trap, and forgetting all about
her immediate subject of complaint ; ' how I
wish I could induce you to give them up 1
You are going to your Club to play now, I
suppose.'

Only for half an hour or so before I go to
bed. According to all the rules of chance, my
luck ought to be on the turn now, and I can't
afford to lose time.'

I wish you would amuse yourself in some
other way ; I wish you would not play with
Lord Salford. He is not a nice young man,
that. I hear more than you might suppose,
and I hear that he says unpleasant things about
you.'

I know he does, confound him ! ' cried
Philip ; ' but what can I do? It's a case of pay
or play; and as I can't pay, why '

You think you must keep on playing — I
know! And when you have won your money
back, if you ever do, he will want his revenge;
and so it will go on until one of you is ruined.
And it is not very difficult to guess which one
that is likely to be. I am an impertinent old
woman, am I not ? '

You arc not in the least impertinent, and
YOU are certainly not old,' said Philip.

Don't talk nonsense.' returned the Signora,
not ill-pleased. ' Anybody can see that
I am old and fat ; but I am glad you don't
think me impertinent. 1 want to be your
friend '

You have shown yourself to be so,' put in
Philip.

And friends must be allowed to cLaim
some privileges. Xow, will you make me a
promise ? '

A hundred, if you like.'

One will be enough for the present ; only
you must not break it. Will you promise that
if you should find yourself in sudden need of a
sum of ready money, you will come to me? I
am one of those people who always have lots of
ready money — more than they know vvhat to do
with.'

My dear Signora Tommasini '

My dear Mr. ^larescalchi, if we are to befriends,
one of us may very well accept a loan
of a few hundred pounds from the other. You
will owe the money to me, instead of to Lord
Salford, that is all. You will pay me as soon
as you would have paid him ; and in the
meantime I shall not go about London telling-everybody
that you are in my debt. Here is

your Club. Good night; and don't forget our
bargain.'

And the Signora, who had a powerful arm,
pushed Philip out on to the pavement, and
slammed the door of the brougham before he
could utter a word of answer or protest.

He mounted the steps, half touched, half
amused, saying to himself that women were
strange creatures, and entered the Club, where
he found Salford and some others, as he had
expected to do. They sat down to play at
once; and if Philip, with whom things went
extraordinarily well, had gone home at the end
of the first hour, he would have wiped off nearly
the half of his debt. But he was unwilling to
desert his luck, and stayed on for another hour,
thereby losing all that he had gained. This
would not do at all; so he remained yet another
hour, and finally rose up the winner of a small
sum.

I hope, after this, you won t go on howling
about your bad luck, Marescalchi,' growled Lord
Salford, as they parted at the corner of St.
James's Street. ' Never saw a fellow hold such
cards in m}^ life ! '

Good night,' answered Philip, curtly, too
sick at heart and disgusted with the whole
business to resent the very unfounded accusation
brought against him.

He hurried home, and, letting himself in
with his latch-key, stole upstairs, oppressed by
that guilty sensation which even the least henpecked
of husbands must experience in coming
in between three and four o'clock in the morning.
A thread of light proceeding from beneath the
drawings-room door did not serve to diminish
this feeling of compunction. He turned the
handle softly, and peeped in. Fanny was lying
in her armchair beside the empty fireplace, fast
asleep. Her head had fallen back a little, and
Philip could not help noticing how sharp the
outline of her chin, which had once been so
prettily rounded, had become. There were
lines, too, about the corners of her mouth, and
she moved uneasily in her sleep, uttering, every
now and then, a low moan which went straight
to the listener's heart. He drew nearer, and
stood looking down ripon her. One of her
hands was hanging down by her side ; the
book which it had held had fallen from it
on to the floor. It was not Lindsey Murray
nor the ' History of England,' as of yore ;
it was a child's picture-book, which Philip
remembered to have bought, some weeks before,
in the Burlington Arcade. He picked it
up, and put it on the table beside a small
heap of broken toys, a photograph, and a
curl of fluffy golden hair that were lying there;

then lie laid his hand gently on the sleeper's
shoulder.

She woke with a violent start and, knitting
her brows, looked about her for a moment in a
scared puzzled way. ' Oh, Philip, is that you ? '
she said at last. ' You were so long in coming,
and I fell asleep ; and now the fire has gone out,
and you will be cold. I am so sorry ! '

Then she caught sight of the little collection
of treasures on the table, and swept them hastily
into her work-basket. It was an unlucky movement.
Philip, who, a minute before, would
have been ready to drop on his knees before
this poor little neglected wife of his and implore
her forgiveness, understood the meaning of it —
the withdrawal of confidence and tacit reproach
that it implied — and was offended.

I am not cold,' he answered; ' but you are,
and no wonder ! You really must give up this
ridiculous habit of sitting up till I come in. It
is not often that I am so late as this; but it
would be impossible for me to promise to be at
home at any given hour; and I can't have you
making yourself ill b}^' doing without your proper
amount of sleep. Don't do it again, there's a
good girl.'

Very well, Philip,' answered Fanny,
meekly.

^ And look here, Fan; continued Philip,

feeling that he was behaving rather badly, and
therefore the more out of humour, ' I do think
you might try to stop grieving over what can't
be helped. If you mourn from now to the last
day of your life, you won't bring the poor little
man back : and what good does it do you to
make others uncomfortable and wretched?'

Fanny shook her head, and made no answer.
The tears were running down her cheeks; but
she had turned her back to Philip, and was
staring at the black cinders in the grate ; so he
did not see this, and thought her obstinate.

Oh, I'm awfully hard-hearted, of course,'
lie cried, impatiently. ' I ought not to leave you
alone all night and all day; but I can't help it.
My good girl, don't you see that you simply
drive me away? I should go mad if I were to
sit here by the hour together without daring to
open my lips.'

Fanny burst suddenly into loud weeping.
^ Oh, I wish I was dead, too!' she exclaimed.
I wish I was ! — I wish I was ! You don't care
for me any more — I have known it for a longtime,
and I don't blame you — what is there to
care for in me? Only I wish I could £0 to
baby. I feel as if he must want me; and
nobody wants me here. Perhaps, if I prayed
very hard to die, God would let me go.'

Hush, hush, my dear! ' said Philip, passing

his arm round her waist and drawing her head
down on to his shoulder; ' you mustn't talk like
that, and you must never say again that I don't
care for you; because it isn't true. I spoke
crossly to you just now, and I am sorry I
did ; but you don't know how many things
I have to worry me. Come, now, don't
cry any more, Fan, and let us kiss and befriends.'


Fanny allowed herself to be soothed and
comforted, like the child that she was; and
Philip went on.

You are upset and off your balance altogether,
you poor little soul. You ought to get
away and have a complete change. You would
like that, wouldn't you? You would like to get
out of this dismal, choking town into the fresh
air?'

Fanny drew in her breath. ' Oh, how I
should like it! But we can't go, can we
Phil?'

^ Why not? I am sick of London myself ^
and I should ask for nothing better than to
shake off the dust from my shoes against it, and
depart — at all events, for a time. Signora
Tommasini was mentioning Italy to me to-day;
do you remember how we used to talk of going
to live in Italy? What should you say to
Florence, now? Do you think a fine warm sun

and blue skies would bring the roses back into
your face ? '

A pink flush hid already mounted into
Fanny's cheeks, and her eyes had grown
brighter. ^ I don't think I should mind where
we went,' said she; 'any place would suit me
that suited you, dear — any place, except this
dreadful London. But Italy ! — oh, it would belike
Heaven ! And perhaps, if we were there —
perhaps '

'Well?'

^ Perhaps — don't be angry, Philip,' murmured
Fanny, glancing up into his face as she
twisted one of his coat buttons nervously
between her thin fingers; ' but I was thinking
that perhaps, if we were there, you wouldn't
have such a great many friends, and then '

And then I shouldn't always leave you to
your own devices, as I have done lately. Ah,
Fan, I have been a selfish brute, I'm afraid; but
I'm going to turn over a new leaf now, and
we'll forget all our troubles, and go and live in
Arcadia — you never heard of Arcadia, did you?
Well, my dear, it's the place where the Dresden
china shepherds and shepherdesses live when
they're at home — a delightful country, where it
is always spring, and the sheep trot about with
broad blue neckties on, and everybody goes to
bed at sunset, and love is eternal, and latch-keys

are unknown. You won't discover it in your
atlas; but I daresay you and I may manage to
find our way there, if we try.'

Philip went on talking this pleasant nonsense
until he succeeded in m-aking his wife laugh for
the first time since her great sorrow. He was
perfectly sincere at the moment, and was greatly
enamoured of the notion of escape from all the
vexations and vanities of a cold-hearted metropolis;
but of course, when he thought it over in
the prosaic daylight, he perceived that nothing
short of a miracle could render such escape
possible. Who was to defray the cost of a
journey to Florence? Who was to pay the
tradesmen's bills? Above all, who was to pay
Lord Salford?

So, although he continued to talk in a vague
way about Italy, no preparations for immediate
departure were made; but he did so far redeem
his promise of turning over a new leaf that for
ten successive days he contrived to reach home
before midnight, and he was so kind and
thoughtful and like his old self that, during;
those ten days, poor Fanny lived in a fool's
paradise. It was a sort of St. Martin's summer;
the last gleam of pale sunshine that was to fall
upon a life which had hardly had its fair share of
brightness.

CHAPTER XX.

FREE.

Philip Marescalchi, like some other adventurers
who have thrown the dice with Fortune
for more important stakes, had a vague confidence
in his star. He had so often been upon the
verge of a catastrophe, and had been preserved
just in the nick of time by some lucky accident
or other, that he more than half believed that
chance must have a favour for him, and that in
his case the worst would never really come to
the worst. In luck, and out of luck — that was
his theory of life; and the one state must in the
long run follows the other, just as the red must
eventually follow the black at roulette. But
now for a long time his star had been under a
cloud; one stroke of bad luck had been succeeded
by another, and at last the dreaded
climax came.

Look here, Marescalchi,' said Lord Salford,
meeting him one morning at the Club and taking
him aside; 'this sort of thing's utter rot. You

VOL. II. N

haven't paid me for Lord knows how long, and
all the time I've got to pay other fellows, don't
you see. If you can't settle, say so, and then I
shall know where I am.'

^ I don't know what you mean,' said Philip ;
'of course I shall settle. I haven't got the
money in my waistcoat-pocket One hardly
expects to be dunned in this way.'

I ain't dunning you,' returned the other.
^ All I know is that when I lose, I have to pay ;
and I don't see why other fellows shouldn't do
the same. Of course if they can't pay, they
can't. Only when that's so, I think it ought to
be known.'

All right ; you shall have your money in
two or three days,' answered Philip, desperately.
You don't expect me to sit down and write
you a cheque straight off the reel, I suppose.'

Lord Salford smiled in a peculiarly exasperating
manner, stuck his hands in his pockets, looked
up at the ceiling, and whistled a tune. 'Let's see,'
he said, presently ; ' this is Wednesday. Shall
we say Saturday morning?'

Philip nodded, left the Club, and walked
straight off to Signora Tommasini's hotel with
the resolute step of a man who has made up his
mind to have a tooth out, and feels that the sooner
the operation is over the better. There were,
as he plainly perceived, but two alternatives

open to him : he must apply either to the
Signora or to Margaret; and he chose the course
which seemed likely to be productive of the
least misery to himself.

The Signora was at home and alone ; and in
the course of about an hour Philip had made
his predicament fully known to her. He did
not at once state the object of his visit, nor
disclose the whole amount of the sum which
he would have to raise by hook or by crook
before the Saturday morning, but allowed these
details to be drawn from him little by little,
bewailing himself bitterly the while, calling
himself by many opprobrious epithets, and
vowing that he would have nothing to do with
Lord Salford for the future. When he had
quite done, the Signora, who had listened to
some parts of his recital with a rather grave face,
thanked him for having fulfilled his part of what
she was pleased to call their agreement.

'I told you I would help you,' said she,
'and I will, with all my heart. Only, to be
candid, I did not think you would want quite so
much at one time. I don't say that to blame
you, or because I shall have any difficulty in
providing you with what you require, but
because it will be necessary for me to see my
stockbroker before I can give it to you.'

Philip groaned dismally.

3y 2

Now, now, now,' said the Signora, ' you
are not to make a fuss about it. What is money
meant for except to be spent ? And surely I^
who have not a near relation in the world, may
invest my money as I think fit. But for all
that, I am a woman of business ; I know what
things are worth, and I mean to have an
equivalent for my loan.'

Philip looked interrogatively at her broad,
good-tempered face.

You say,' she continued, ' that you don't
intend to play cards with Lord Salford anymore.
Now you are in my power, and I shall
make you go further than that. You must give
up play altogether.'

My dear Signora Tommasini, you may
impose any conditions you please upon me,
except that. If I give up cards, how in the
world am I to repay you your loan ? '

You will repay me, with interest at the
rate of ^^'^ per cent., when you are receiving as
large a salary as I am now. I look upon your
voice as excellent security ; but I am not going
to allow you to encumber the property any
further. See what a woman of business I am !
There is no occasion for you to thank me,' she
added, as Philip began, rather shamefacedly, to
stammer out some expressions of gratitude. ' It
is true that I am doing you a small service; but

I am giving myself a great deal of pleasure at
the same time.'

This singular woman was radiant. Nothing
could be more obvious than that she was about
to make a free gift of a sum which very few
people in England could part with and not miss;
but we mortals are so constituted that even the
most clear-sighted of us can easily be brought
to shut our eyes to humiliating facts, and it is
by no means certain that Philip did not leave
the house with an impression that the Signora
knew what she was about, and was placing
her money, if not advantageously, at least
securely.

Two days later he called upon her again, by
her request, and found her waiting for him, with
a cheque for four figures, duly written out and
signed, before her.

It's all wrong, you know ; I have no
business to be taking this from you,' said he, at
the same time allowing the slip of paper to be
thrust into his hand.

Give it back to me, then,' she answered
calmly. * Perhaps, after all, I should do better
lo invest it in the Funds.'

I am quite sure you would said Philip,
with a long face ; and he held out the cheque,
v^'hich, however, the Signora did not take.

'No,' she said; 'it would not be worth

while to trouble my broker again. As you have
got it you may as well keep it.'

And suppose I were to drop down dead
tomorrow?'

^ I should still have enough to buy mourning
with. And, besides, I hope I should be too
sorry for the loss of my friend to think much
about the loss of my money.'

Philip sighed deeply, but pocketed the
cheque. ' I don't know how or ^^hy it is,' he
remarked meditatively, 'but women have been
awfully good to me all my life. I believe you
are superior to us men in every way. You are
certainly more generous than we are.'

And less just,' said the Signora, with a
laugh and a shrug of her fat shoulders. ' Bah !
we are generous to-day and shabby tomorrow.
Take care how you let a woman get you into her
power. That is good advice ; but it is thrown
away upon you, for you will always be in the
power of some woman, my friend.'

You told me the other day that I was in
yours,' observed Philip, smiling.

So you were, for the moment ; and did I
not take advantage of my opportunity? But I
am what they call bonne diahlesse ; I wish you
may never fall into worse hands than mine.'

So do I, with all my heart,' answered he
fervently.

Lord Salford, to his evident surprise, was
paid in fall on the following morning ; and, as
Philip descended the steps of the Club, after
discharging his debt, he promised himself that
he would hardly take the value of his subscription
out of that establishment for the future.
Henceforth his evenings should be spent at
home. From card-playing he was debarred by
a promise which he was determined to keep ;
and he resolved also to renounce evening parties,
or at all events only to attend such of them as
it would be really wrong, in view cf ultimate
professional advancement, to neglect.

I see the woods of Arcadia looming in the
distance, Fan,' he said, the same night, to his
wife, after dining contentedly with her off burnt
mutton chops and rice pudding ; and she smiled
faintly, and answered, 'Do you, dear?' in that
patient, pathetic way which had lately become
habitual to her.

Perhaps it was the removal of the pressure
of debt from his mind, perhaps it was his
increased leisure, that enabled Philip to notice
something; which he mio^ht have noticed loner
before, and which now began to cause him
serious anxiety. Fanny was growing paler and
thinner every day ; she had no appetite, slept
very little, and, in spite of all efforts to appear
cheerful, there was a listlessness in her every

movement which would have told its own tale
to a less observant spectator than her husband.
He, now that his tardy apprehensions had been
roused, was even more alarmed than the occasion
seemed to warrant, and would not listen to her
assurances that there was nothing the matter
with her. He insisted upon calling in the
doctor, who, after a somewhat lengthy examination,
had no very satisfactory report to give of
his patient.

There is not any definite disease,' he said ;
^ but I should be wrong if I did not warn you
that there may be something definite before
long. In cases of this kind drugs are of very

little service. 1 have, however ' and here

the usual two half sheets of note paper scrawled
over with hieroglyphics were handed to Philip.
What I should advise,' continued the doctor,
'would be complete change of air and scene.
You should take Mrs. Marescalchi down to the
seaside, or, better still, to the Continent. Italy,
for instance, would be a good country to go to at
this season of the year. In her present state, a
chill might be a serious matter.' And so forth,
and so forth <

As soon as the doctor was gone, Philip went
straight into his dressing-room, locked himself
hi, and gave way to despair. At that moment
he felt firmly persuaded that Fanny was going

to die, and the bare idea of such a catastrophe
overwhelmed him with orgies and remorse. There
had not been much sympathy between them of
late, and it was not so very long since he had been
lamenting his folly in having ever married her ;
but for these very reasons his pain was the
greater now. He was in no mood for self-scrutiny;
but if he had got to the bottom of
his emotion he would have found that it was
not so much the dread of his possible loss as
intense pity for Fanny herself that was bringing
the tears into his eyes. Death was to Philip
the greatest of all possible ills, the one misfortune
for which no consolation could be found,
the end of everything. If he had been offered
his choice between death and penal servitude
for life he would have accepted the latter
alternative without an instant's hesitation, and
immediately begun calculating his chances of
crettino^ out on a ticket-of-leave. And if, indeed,
this terrible thing should happen to poor Fanny,
would it not be in a great measure his fault ?

a

What evil spirit had prompted that doctor to
mention the word Italy? Italy ! as if a journey
to Italy were as simple a thing as taking a
hansom to Oxford Street! What inhuman
brutes doctors were ! ' Idiot that I was ! '
thought Philip ; ' why, while I was about it,
didn't I ask the Signora for another thousand

pounds, instead of telling her the exact amount
that I had to hand over to Salford the next day ?
I can't go back to her and ask her for more now.
No, hang it all, I can't do that. And my poor
little Fan must die because I haven't the money
to pay for railway tickets ! There's Meg — but
she sent me money only a week ago ; and what
excuse could I make ? '

At this moment there came a tap at the
door, and presently Fanny herself entered.

^ Philip,' said she, quietly, ' the doctor thinks
I shall never get any better, doesn't he? '

^ Never get any better,' cried Philip, immediately
assuming an air of great cheerfulness ;
my dear child, what rubbish have you been
taking into your head ? He says there is
nothing in the world the matter with you.'

Fanny smiled. ^ You need not be afraid of
telling me,' she said ; 'I don't mind.'

I do, though, whether you do or not — at
least, I should mind. But I give you my word
of honour that he assured me you had no disease
at all, and one can't die without a disease, can
one? What he said was that you were out of
sorts and wanted a change. He spoke of the
seaside, or — well, he suggested Ital', oddly
enough.'

And then Philip broke out into lamentations.
Italy, he said, was out of the question. He had

not liked to say so before ; but he had been
thinking it over, and he had found that Italy
would be altogether beyond them. He had
been careless and extravagant, and there were a
number of small bills hanging; over him which
he could not well leave the country without
paying. And, worse than that, the money-box
was pretty nearly empty. He was going on to
express much self-reproach ; but Fanny interrupted
him, and relieved him greatly by saying
that she, too, had been thinking things over, and
that she had come to the conclusion that she
would not at all care about Italy just now.
There was no pleasure in travelling when one
was out of health, and she dreaded the fatigue ;
and, in short, a greek at Margate, if that could
be managed, would suit her a great deal better.
Philip had not contrived to deceive her, but
she was perfectly successful in deceiving him.
Her first glimpse of his face, as lie came into
the room, had shown her his distress, and it was
not to be thought of that he should distress
himself on her account. She therefore addressed
herself to the task of convincing him that her
illness was an imaginary one ; and the task was
easy enough, seeing that he asked nothing better
than to be convinced. Perhaps he suspected
that the activity which she displayed during the
next few days was the result of an effort, that

lier loquacity was scarcely natural, and lier
laughter a little forced ; but what then? If she
was struo;olin<T to free herself from the state of
lethargy into which she had sunk since the child's
death, so much the better. Was not her sickness,
after all, rather one of the mind than of the
lx)dy? Women were like that ; their spirits
always told upon their health. It did not take
Philip long to reach the point of laughing at his
first fears.

In the course of the following week he took
Fanny down to Margate according to her wish,
and the effect of the change was so speedily
beneficial as to be almost startling. Margate is
hardly' what most people would consider a cheerful
spot in the winter time ; but the clear au',
the broad stretch of sea, and the sight of the
breakers tumbling in were full of life and refreshment
to a countrvbred srirl. who for twelve mortal
months and more had had nothing but bricks
and mortar to look at and only the smoke-laden
atmosphere of London to breathe. It
chanced also that there came in this month of
February, as there often does, a fortnight of
mild, spring-like weather, so that it was even
possible to sit out on the sands in the sunshine,
and, if the bathing-machines had not been hauled
up out of sight, it would not have seemed an
absolutely outrageous thing to contemplate a dip

in salt water. There was now no longer any
occasion for Fanny to make believe. The fresh
breezes brought the colour into her pale cheeks ;
she felt her strength returning day by day ; she
was able to take long walks with the best and
kindest of husbands ; insensibly she was becoming
reconciled to her great sorrow ; she, too,
began to see glimpses of the woods of Arcady,
Doctors are not always reassured by these very
rapid improvements, which have something in
common with the quick rise of the barometer
after a fall ; but neither Philip nor Fanny knew
much about doctors and disease, and were as
anxious as everybody is to keep such subjects
out of their minds.

It was a very pleasant and a very successful
holiday, as far as it went ; but it did not go very
far, nor could it last very long. Lack of money ;
the remonstrances of Steinberger, who could not
for the life of him understand what his pupil
wanted to do at Margate at that season of the
year ; a sudden shift of the wind into the northeast,
with flying grey clouds and cat's-ice in
every puddle — all these things combined to
sound the recall, and to warn the wanderers that
London, though it might have been forgotten,
had not moved from its position, and was waiting
to receive them back into its grimy embrace.
That bleak north-easter accompanied them on

their homeward journey ; it made its way
through the ill-fitting windows of the railway-carriage,
chilling the travellers to their bones ;
and it was the means of providing poor Fanny
with a very definite complaint in the form of a
sharp attack of bronchitis.

For a short time after their return to Conduit
Street it seemed as if this attack was not
likely to prove a serious one ; but afterwards the
symptoms became more acute, and it was soon
evident that the patient was in for a long and
perhaps dangerous illness.

Ah said the doctor, who had again been
summoned ; ' you ought to have taken my
advice, Mr. Marescalchi ; you ought to have left
England. I warned you, as you may remember,
of the risk of these spring winds.'

It is a pity that you did not insist more
upon the point,' said poor Philip, meekly ; ' but
there is not much good in talking about that
now. The question is, will she get over it ? '

Now, my dear sir,' remonstrated the doctor,
who was certainly a very irritating person,
what an unreasonable think; that is to ask !
How can I possibly tell what turn an illness may
take ? Your wife's age should be in her favour ;
on the other hand, her state of debility is such that

that, in short, we must consider it an anxious

case. Careful nursing may do much for her.'

This latter need was supplied by the advent
of Aunt Keziah, who now once more took up her
abode under Philip's roof ; and it must be said
for Aunt Keziah that she came out strong under
the circumstances, sitting up all night, taking
but a few hours' rest during the day, and absolutely
refusing all professional assistance.

None of your 'hospital nurses for me,' cried
she, with the inveterate prejudice of her class.
Xo stranger shall come near my sister's child
so long as I have the use of my arms and legs,
and that's flat. So you'll be so good as not
mention the subject again to me, Philip, if you
please.'

Philip no longer objected to be addressed by
his Christian name. He was a great deal too
miserable to pay attention to such trifles, and
Mrs. AYebber herself was moved to pity a man
whom she secretly despised by the sight of his
utterly woebegone aspect. He was not allowed
to be much in the sick-room, where in truth he
did no good and only got in the way ; he could
not bring himself to go out, and probably the
hours that he spent in these days, standing at
the window of the dingy drawing-room in Conduit
Street and staring blankly at the passers-by
and the cabman on the stand below, were the
most wretched of his whole life. He told Mrs.
Webber that he only wished he were dying too ;

and though she did not believe him, she was
sorry for him, and she confided to the landlady,
with whom she had struck up a friendship by
the bedside of the sufferer, that she would say
for that navvy of hers that he had a feelings
heart.

It was not, however, in the man's nature to
grieve long after this fashion. A slight improvement
in Fanny's condition afforded him an excuse
for recovering his spirits, for declaring that
she would pull through now and be as well as
ever again, and for resuming his neglected singing
lessons. Throughout her long illness he
alternated thus between the depths of despair
and extravagant hopefulness ; but, as time went
on, the latter became his usual state of mind. It
was so much pleasant to hope than to despair
and, as ]airs. Avenger sagely remarked, hope was
a thing as did harm to nobody.

Philip, then, began to go about and to see
his friends much as before. He looked in at the
Club occasionally ; had Walter Brune to dine
with him once or twice, ' lest Meg should fancy
that something had happened,' he said to himself
; he called at certain houses where he did
not wish to be forgotten, and was persuaded
to sing at a few afternoon entertainments. One
person, however, he persistently avoided. It
has passed into a proverb that the surest way to

lose sight of a friend is to lend him money ; but
it was not an overburdening sense of obligation
alone that caused Philip to steer clear of Signora
Tommasini, inventing heaven knows how many
cunningly-devised fables to account for his neglect,
and despatching them to her by post. He
was afraid that if he were to find himself alone
with this sympathising and generous ally, she
might get his secret out of him. His nerves, he
knew, were not to be depended upon at this
time, and a kind word might cause him to betray
himself in a manner which he would probably
afterwards regret. Philip had seen more of
women than of men during his life, and had
perhaps learnt to understand some of their peculiarities.
He hardly believed in the common
report that the Signora harboured matrimonial
designs upon him : but at the same time he
felt very sure that she. would not be pleased
to hear that he was already married. Therefore
he judged it best to keep out of danger's
way.

Meanwhile Fanny was growing slowly better.
Better, that is, in a certain sense ; for, although
all risk from the bronchitis was over, she was
still too weak to get up. Those who watched
her said that she would be up in another week ;
then, when that time had elapsed, they put the
event off for yet another week, and after that the

VOL. II.

subject of her leaving lier bed was dropped altogether.
She herself was well aware that she
would never leave it alive ; and one morning she
said as much to Philip, begging him not to be
angry with her for telling the truth.

Philip, nevertheless, made a great show of
being angry, scolded her for giving way to
gloomy fancies, pointed out that, if she were as
ill as she supposed, she would never have got
over the bronchitis, and declared that she was
doing all that she could to retard her recovery
by allowing herself to think that there was any
doubt about it. But she laid her thin hand on
his arm, looking up at him deprecatingly, and
his voice died away.

We can't always go on pretending, can we,
dear?' said she. 'I know you will be sorry at
first ; and I should like to stay with you — for
some things. But I don't mind going. Before
I was so ill — at the time just after dear baby
(lied — I used to be very miserable, and sometimes
I fancied that you — well, that you did not
care for me quite so much as you once did. But
that is all over, and we won't talk about it. I
used to be wicked enough to think that you
would be rather glad to get rid of me ; I don't
think that now. But, Philip, while I have been
lying here I have thought over a great many
things, and I can see that it is better — oh, ever

SO much better ! — as it is. You will think so,
too, some day.'

Didn't he almost think so already ? The
question flashed across Philip's consciousness,
and was gone before he had time to hx it there.

Some day,' Fanny went on, ' you v/ill see
that it would have been impossible ever to
change me into a lady. Though I think I have
improved a little,' she could not help adding ;
I don't leave out my h's now, do I ? And my
hands are not red any more — but perhaps that is
because I am so ill.'

Fan ! ' exclaimed Philip, half laughing,
half crying. • you are the greatest goose that ever
lived. You break my heart when you talk like
that. Did I ever accuse you of not being a
lady?'

No. dear,' she answered considering ; ^ I
don't know that you ever did. But of course I
thought about it a o-ood deal ; and then Aunt
Keziah used to go on about silk purses and sow's
ears. Poor Aunt Keziah ! we should have had
to cut her, I suppose ; and I don't think I could
have bore to do that. Nobody knows how. good
and kind she has been to me all this time.'

Philip dropped on his knees by the side of
the bed, exclaiming. * Oh, hush, my darling ! you
are not ofoino; to die : \'0u are not oroing; to have
any more trouble. 1 will work all day for you. and

you shall have everything you can wish for, and
your Aunt Keziah shall be welcome whenever
she chooses to come to us, if only you will get
well and be my own bright little Fan again.'

Perhaps he would not have been so overcome,
perhaps he would not have said so much as this,
if he had not felt that there was no hope. Fanny,
for her part, was not at all overcome. She looked
at him half wonderingly and with a great kindness
and pity, as she passed her wasted handover
his hair. Already the hand of death was
upon her, and she saw the world with the clear
eyes of those who are passing for ever beyond the
reach of its pettinesses. She understood her
husband better now than she had ever done in
the happy days that were past ; but she did not
love him the less because she understood him.
There was a certain helplessness about the man
which endeared him to all women, and made
them hate to see him suffer, even though they
miolit know that his sufferings would not last
long.

It is much better as it is,' she repeated. ' We
have had a very happy time together, my dear,
and there's nothing to regret — no quarrels nor
cross words ; nothing, except baby's death. And
now I am so glad — oh, so glad that I have not
left him behind me.' Her face lighted up and
the tears came into her eyes, as she thought of

this. ' And, Philip, you must not make yourself
miserable about me after I am gone. You must
see plenty of people, and be always busy: and
then, after a time, if you wished — if you thought
that you '

She broke off. and glanced up inquiringly.

I mean, if you ever thought of marrying
again, you must not suppose that I should mind.
I think I should like you to have some one to
take care of you : I think, perhaps, some day,
you will marr' that Xellie Brune ^vhom you
used to talk to me about sometimes-your
people rather wished it, didn't they?'

'My people?' said Philip, 'I have got no
people. Meg — Mrs. Stanniforth, you know —
has an idea of something of the kind, I believe ;
but I don't want to marry Nellie —or anybody.
Besides, she has no money.'

Hasn't she ? ' said Fanny, dreamily. ' But
you will make money ; and it would never do
for you to marry a woman for the sake of her
fortune ; she would find it out, and then you
would both be miserable. Xo, you will marry
Xellie Brune ; and you needn't tell her anything
about me, and so it will all pass away and
be forgotten. She repeated several times ' all
be forgotten — all forgotten.'

Philip stood silently watching her for a longtime.
Once or twice she murmured Nellie

Brune's name and once or twice this own, and so
fell asleep with a smile upon her lips.

After this day many weeks elapsed during
which Fanny grew apparently neither better nor
worse. She suffered no pain, slept a great deal,
and during her waking hours seemed quite content
to lie still and listen to Aunt Keziah, who
had produced a well-thumbed Bible, and would
read honos extracts from it in a loud, unniodu-
lated voice. Seeing her so calm, Philip, too,
became easier in mind. The violence of his first
grief had spent itself, and was beyond his recalling
; he began to admit, as Fanny had done,
that all was for the best. Acquiescence in the
inevitable was with him not so much a part of
philosophy as of nature, and when one thing was
past hoping for, he could not for the life of him
help turning his eyes towards something else.
There even came a time when he almost wished
for the end of the present state of affairs. The
doctor apprehended no immediate danger, would
not yet say that the case was an absolutely hopeless
one, thought it quite possible that his patient
might linger on through the spring and summer
months, and so forth ; and in the meantime
Philip's bills were mounting up ; Margaret was
writing anxious and urgent letters, begging him
to come down and see her, if it were only for a
few days ; Walter Brune, too, seemed to suspect

that there was some mystery afoot. Perhaps it
was hardly strange that Philip should half long
for the liberty that might be so near* He only
half longed for it ; he was ashamed of the
thoughts that would sometimes force their way
into his mind, and a chance word or look from
Fanny sufficed to convert him, for the time, into
as heartbroken a husband as Aunt Keziah could
have wished to contemplate.

After all, he had not long to wait for the end.
When it came, it seemed to have come suddenly,
though, in truth, nothing could have been more
gradual than its approach. Little by little the
dying woman's brain had been giving way, for
some days she had scarcely recognised any one
and had been somewhat excited at times,
talking a deal of rubbish,' as Mrs. Webber
said, and asking constantly for her baby to be
brought to her. Still, it was not supposed that
she was much worse than she had been until one
evening when she began to complain of being
cold, and nothing that they could do would
warm her ; and then Mrs. Webber, who, as she
mentioned with a sort of pride, ' had seen many
a one die afore now,' knew what was coming.

She'll go off quite quiet, you'll see,' said this
person of experience, nodding at Philip, who
was holding Fanny's hand, ' they mostly in
general do. There's some as die hard, as you

might say, and there's some as die easy ; there's
them as is ready to meet their Maker, and them
as didn't ought for to feel so. But, lor, dear me !
when it comes to the last, 'tis much the same
with them all.'

But Philip was not listening to the results of
Mrs. Webber's observations, for he had felt a
sudden pressure of his hand ; and now Fanny's
eyes were opened wide, she was looking at him
in a troubled way, and was evidently trying to
say something. He bent down his head to catch
any faint whisper that might pass her lips ; but
all at once her voice came back to her, and she
spoke quite loud, though with long pauses
between the words.

Dear — I wanted to say — I'm so sorry — I let
the fire out — that night.'

She's a wandering, poor dear ! ' said Aunt
Keziah. But Philip understood what that
fond and foolish little wife of his was thinking
of. With her feet upon the very brink of the
dark river, she had been confusedly trying to
examine her conscience, and it had accused her
of no worse offence than this.

Those were her last words. She closed her
eyes as soon as she had uttered them ; and so
faint was her breathing that neither of the bystanders
could have told the precise moment at
which her heart ceased to beat.

They buried her beside her baby in the
saddest, dreariest cemetery in the world, not
excepting Pere-la-Chaise. A fine, drizzling rain
was falling while the brief rite was hurried
through ; and as Philip turned away from the
grave he shuddered from head to foot, muttering,
I shall never be able to come back here again

I don't think as you ever will come back
sir,' said Mrs. Webber, quietly.

Mrs. Webber was quite respectful now ; and
if there was any sarcasm in her speech, it was
only sarcasm of that deferential kind which
inferiors may permit themselves to use towards
their superiors. Philip was Mr. Marescalchi
again now ; he was no longer her nephew, no
longer a man over whom she had the smallest
hold ; and, being a sensible woman, she recognised
the change.

Philip walked hastily out of the burying-ground,
and hailed the first hansom that he met.
The sun burst out as he was whirled through the
crowded streets back to London, back to the
world, back to life and liberty. He tried to feel
unhappy, but he could not. His spirits rose in
spite of himself; a great weight was off his
mind; he was free! When he reached Conduit
Street the blinds had been drawn up, the sun
was streaming through the open windows into the
shabby little drawing-room, which had been

swept and made tidy during this absence. There
was nothing here to remind him that he had
ever been a husband and a father; all poor
Fanny's things had been carried away by Aunt
Keziah; Aunt Keziah herself was gone back to
Islington, never to cross his path again. He was
like the widower in the ballad, ' a youth lighthearted
and content.' Truly his star had been
favourable to him. He had done a foolish thing,
but no disgraceful one. At that moment Philip
was not very far from thinking that he had had
such wonderful luck because he had deserved
to be lucky. Would not anyone who had heard
the history of his relations with Fanny have
said that he had behaved like a gentleman
throughout? How many men would have
married a girl from a confectioner's shop? How
many, having married her, would have remained
true to her from first to last, risking detection
for her sake, risking ridicule, risking social ruin,
and hardly giving so much as a thought to these
dangers ?

Then, while he yet exulted, there came upon
him a sudden and complete revulsion of feeling.
He remembered that he was alone; that it was
not in the least a question of what others might
say of him, but of what he might be able to say
of himself to himself. For one moment he saw
the truth — saw that he was glad that Fanny

was dead; glad that that kind and faithful heart
would never flutter with delight again when he
came home at night to recount his triumphs;
o'lad that he should never ao-ain throughout all
eternity hear the sound of the childish laughter
which had once been so sweet to him. He saw
that he lead never really cared for her — nay,
that he had never really cared for any single
person or thing in the wide world out himself.

There is something so hideous, so revolting;
in utter selfishness that it is a very good
thing indeed for some of us that it usually
brings mental blindness with it. Philip was
so scared by the spectre which he had raised
that the thought of spending an evening
alone with it was one that he could not by
any means face. Therefore he dined at his
Club, and afterwards went to the opera, where
he saw and spoke to Signora Tommasini for the
first time for many weeks.

I have been ill,' he said shortly, in answer
to her pertinacious inquiries as to where he had
been during all this long interval; and she believed
him, for, in truth, his face looked pale
and drawn, and he seemed altogether unlike
himself.

CHAPTER XXI.

TWO FLATTERING OFFERS.

Life in the country generally, and life in the
neighbourhood of Cray minster somewhat more
particularly, is seldom remarkable for abundance
of incident ; and upon the principle that the
safest thing for a sailor to do with his head,
when in the heat of action, is to thrust it through
a hole made in the side of the ship by a cannonball,
it may be assumed that, after such an
eventful day as that through which Miss Brune
had just passed when we took leave of her in
the month of November, nothing more of a
startling nature was likely to happen to her for
some time to come. To be run away with, to
be thrown from one's horse, to receive and reject
an offer of marriage, all within the twenty-four
hours, is indeed to draw rather recklessly upon
one's fair average of excitement ; and Xellie,
who, as it may be remembered, had been a good
deal bored and eager for any small trifle in the
way of novelty before these things bad taken

place, was abundantly satisfied with what she
had got, and asked for nothing better than a
further period of repose and dulness in which to
recover herself.

Such a period did in due course follow, and
lasted for a matter of six weeks ; but at the expiration
of that time a truly remarkable piece of
experience fell to Nellie's share — a piece of experience
such as no woman ever quite forgets,
and which is looked back upon with a certain
degree of pride by all and with heartfelt regret
by a good many. It was towards the end of
December that the county was roused to a high
pitch of interest and expectation by the reappearance
of the Duke of Retford, who, being
still shut out of his Yorkshire mansion, had
selected Craybridge to pass Christmas at, as
being upon the whole the least comfortless of the
many country houses that belonged to him. He
came down in quite a patriarchal fashion, accompanied
or speedily followed by numerous relatives,
and among these was his eldest son.

Now this young man had greatly liked and
admired Nellie during his stay at Craybridge at
the time of the festivities consequent upon his
coming of age ; and so sincere had been his
admiration that he had not at all forgotten her,
although five whole months had passed away
since he had bidden her farewell. One of the

first things, therefore, that he did upon finding
himself once more within reach of her was to
ride over to Broom Leas, where he was so kindly-received
that he discovered a series of pretexts
for repeating his visit three times in little more
than a week. About Christmas time his parents,
as in duty bound, gave a ball at which he
danced a great many times with Nellie — thereby
exciting' much surprise and envy, and not a little
spitefulness. After that there came a ten days'
frost, which afforded additional opportunities for
neighbourly intercourse ; and the outcome of it
all was that, while the new year was still young
the Most Honourable the Marquis of Craybridge
made a formal offer of his hand and all the
contingent glories belonging thereto to Miss
Brune.

It may be asserted without ill nature — and
in truth, there is nothing ill-natured in the
assertion — that the number of women in England
who could relinquish without a pang the
prospect of becoming a duchess may be counted
upon the fingers of one hand. Nellie Brune, at
any rate, was not one of that select and high-minded
few. She would have liked very much
to be a duchess, and to be rich and powerful, and
to hold out a helping hand to her brothers in
their several professions, and to wear the famous
Bedford diamonds, and to step at once and without

an effort from the respectable but obscure
ranks of the country gentry into the inner circle
of the highest society of her native land. All
this Twould have been exceedingly pleasant to
her ; and yet she felt that she could not marry
Lord Craybridge. She refused him with an
honest sigh, but she did refuse him.

The young man was very much astonished,
which was natural enough — and rather angry
which showed a want of proper feeling on his
]part, but was also, perhaps, not unnatural. Of
course, in a manner of speaking, Miss Brunewas
worthy of an imperial throne : but, contemplating
things from a commonsense and every-dav
standpoint, she really was hardly in a position to
treat marquises as though they were made of
mere common cla3\ This marquis had been
willing to set the wishes of his parents at defiance,
and to brave the displeasure of his entire
family for her sake. He had thought rather
well of himself for being so independent, and it
certainly had never entered into his head that
any opposition to his desires could come from
her. He was a very young man and a somewhat
hot-tempered one, and he could not help letting
her see something of what he thought respecting
her conduct in this matter. Thereupon she, too,
became angry, and told him he had a vulgar
mind ; and so high words passed, and the interview

was nearly ending in a mortal quarrel.
Lord Craybridge, however, regained his self-control
in time to avert so undignified a parting.
He confessed that he had forgotten himself,
begged for forgiveness, and was forgiven. Would
there be any hope for him at any future time ? he
asked. Nellie replied that she was very sorry,
but that there never could be any hope for him
at all. He then observed that he didn't care
what became of him now, and departed declaring
that he should live and die a bachelor, and expressing
a hope that his demise might speedily
ensue. And about three weeks afterwards he
proposed to the beautiful Lady Hilda Montague,
by whom he was accepted ; and they were
married with great pomp at westminster Abbey
in the spring, and lived happily ever afterwards.
The foregoing episode, having only an indirect
bearing upon the course of the present
story, has been somewhat condensed in narration;
but the various workings of it occupied a large
portion of Nellie's time and thoughts during the
winter, and it was the means of exalting her beyond
measure in the estimation of her neighbours;
for it need hardly be said that the whole county
heard all about it, the news having leaked out
and been promulgated in the usual mysterious
way. Ladies are not supposed to reveal the
names of their rejected suitors (as a matter of

fact they generally do reveal them, but that is
neitliei- here nor there), and in the present
instance Belle was as reticent as the strictest
code of social ethics could have required her to
be. Besides her father, she only communicated
the circumstance to Mrs. Stanuiforth, who was
almost like a mother to her ; and every lady is
allowed to have one confidant. Maro^aret, ao-ain,
was anything but a garrulous person ; but when
Mrs. Winnington sneered openly at Xellie for
having so signally failed to ' catch poor Mr.
vStanniforth,' how was it possible to resist the
temptation of proving that a much more eligible
parti than Tom Stanniforth had been declined by
the young lady ? Proving is perhaps hardly the
right word to use, inasmuch as there could be no
tangible proof adduced in support of the statement,
and indeed Mrs. Winnington declared at
once and without hesitation that she didn't believe
a word of it. Nature, however, was too
strong for Mrs. Winnington, and, despite her
expressed incredulity, she could not help treating
Nellie from that day forth with a wondering respect
which its subject was puzzled to account for.
As for Margaret, her joy over the discomfiture
of Lord Craybridge was extreme. There could
be but one reason, she thought, for his rejection;
and, being quite satisfied now as to the state of
Xellie's affections, she became more than ever

VOL. II. p

anxious for Philip to return. Philip, his doings
and his prospects, were the most frequent subject
of conversation between the two ladies. It was
a comfort to the elder to have some one within
reach who understood and appreciated that
paragon, while the younger was glad to be able
to speak without repugnance of one, at least,
among the persons in whom her kind friend was
interested. Mrs. Winnington, back from her
autumn manoeuvres in the west, and upon the
whole not ill-pleased with the results thereof,
was more than usually out of sympathy with
them both at this time. When Margaret
hesitatingly informed her of the career which
Philip had chosen for himself, she remarked
drily that she was not at all surprised, but that
for her part she did not care about including a
mountebank in the list of her acquaintances ; and
to Nellie she made herself objectionable by intimating
in no ambiguous language that Tom
Stanniforth's engagement to Edith might now
be looked upon as very nearly' an accomplished
fact. She had encountered Mr. Stanniforth, it
appeared, in the course of her peregrinations, and
had — or said she had — been given to understand
pretty clearly by him what his ambition was.
I have not breathed a word upon the subject to
dear Edith ; I would never interfere in such a
matter. I fancy, though, that I can foresee her

answer, and I really think that in many ways she
will have chosen Wisely. Rank, after all, is not
everything, and dear Mr. Stanniforth is so good
such a thoroughly sterling and genuine
character

Xellie, albeit not unprepared for this intelligence,
was profoundly disgusted by it, and said
some bitter things to Margaret about the ease
vdth which Edith had got over her attachment
to poor Walter. Not even to Margaret had she
ever disclosed what had passed between her and
Mr. Stanniforth on that memorable november
afternoon, but in her heart she condemned him
no less severely than the young woman to whom
he had so promptly transferred his allegiance.
To be sure, she did not want to marry him herself,
and it was nothing to her whom he might
choose to marry ; but she thought he might have
had the decency to wait a little longer. He had
taken rather a liberty in asking her to be his
wife at all ; but that he should have asked her
in that sort of way, simply because he wanted a
wife — any wife — was j must a little bit too insulting.
One is sorry to have to record weaknesses on the
part of one's heroine ; but it is a fact that when
Edith complained that Xellie Brune never met
her now without sniffing at her, she was not
going far beyond the limits of truth.

There were thus many little daily pin-pricks

p 2

which served not only to strengthen the friendship
which had subsisted for so long between
Margaret and her young neighbour, but to
narrow the stream of their common interests into
one channel. If some people thought that Philip
would lower himself and those connected with
him by singing for his supper, like little Tom
Tucker, that was by no means Miss Brune's
opinion. On the contrary, she applauded his
resolution with a heartiness that quite reassured
Margaret, who, as we have seen, had had some
misgivings upon the point at first. Why, Nellie
pertinently inquired, should it be considered a
more honourable occupation to plead the cause
of murderers and forgers than to afford innocent
pleasure to people of refinement ? Did anybody
dare to look down upon artists nowadays ? And
was not a great singer just as much an artist asa
great painter? What was really disgraceful
was to eat the bread of idleness ; and that was
what she had sometimes feared that Philip might
be contented to do. Now she said she should
always feel proud of him.

Speeches of this kind were very soothing
and encouraging to Margaret, and went far
towards consoling her for the uneasiness which
she felt at Philip's protracted absence. He was
always writing to say that he meant to come
and see her as soon as ever he could find the

time, but somehow or other he never did find the
time ; and a vague rumour connecting his name
with that of Signora Tommasini trickled down
to Crayminster, and gave Margaret (who had
never seen the Signora, and supposed her to bea
young and fascinating creature) a terrible
fright. At length, however, there came a
letter to announce that Philip proposed to
revisit Longbourne at Easter, and that he hoped
to be able to remain there for some weeks.
This joyful news was at once transmitted to
Broom Leas by Margaret, who mentioned with
regret that the same post had brought her a
refusal from Tom Stanniforth. ' I hoped he
might have been able to run down for Easter
too,' she said; ' but he tells me he will be busy
all through the recess.'

Oh, what a good thing ! ' exclaimed Nellie,
clasping her hands involuntarily.

Her ejaculation had been called forth by the
latter piece of intelligence, but Margaret naturally
set it down to gratification at the former.
And in truth Xellie was very glad to see Philip
again. He arrived, looking very pale and fagged,
as he might have been expected to do after a
long spell of hard labour, and was made much
of by the ladies whose admiration he chiefly
coveted. Margaret, of course, would have
petted him under any circumstances; but he was

not prepared to meet with so kind a reception
at the hands of Nellie, having found her on
previous occasions more of a critic than a
sympathiser. Stow she was amiability itself.
She made him sing to her; she praised his voice
in terms more enthusiastic than any that had
yet flattered his ears (poor Fanny had hardly
known one note from another); she prophesied
a triumphant success for him, and listened with
much interest to all that he would tell her about
his life in London.

This sort of thing delighted Philip, and so,
for that matter, did everything connected with
Longbourne and the ordinary course of existence
there. He had been for so many months
without the small luxuries and refinements
which go with wealth, that he had almost forgotten
what they were like, and valued them
doubly now that they were once more within
his reach. Even such trifling matters as a
constant supply of clean towels in his bedroom
and the finding of his clothes ready brushed and
laid out for him when he wanted them were
productive of a great deal of pleasure to him,
and he sometimes found himself marvelling how
he could have put up so cheerfully with the
wretched discomforts of Coomassie Villa and
Conduit Street. But it was not often that he
thought of Coomassie Yilla and Conduit

Street, or of this residence there, at all. That
era of his life already belonged to the past,
and had been pushed into a pigeon-hole of his
memory, to be looked at occasionally, or to be
forgotten altogether. as chance mis^ht decree.
His thoughts now were occupied entirely with
the present; and a very agreeable sort of present
it was, taking it all in all. Plenty of well-drilled
servants to minister to his wants, good
things to eat. the best of wines to drink,
soft voiced, well-bred women to talk to — these
things sufficed, at least for the time being, to
satisfy his soul. The season of the year, too,
was delicious. The white, bright sunlight of
spring was rousing the sleeping earth to life;
the chestnut buds were bursting; the fruit-trees
were covered with starry blossoms, which fell
like miniature snowstorms before every puff of
the soft west wind; the thrushes and blackbirds
could be heard in the cool mornings; all nature
was preparing for a fresh start; and what could
be more fitting than that the heart of this young
man should lightly turn in the usual direction ?
It must not. however, be supposed that
Philip had learnt so little from experience as to
think in any serious fashion of paying his
addresses to Xellie Brune. He said to himself,
with a smile, that Margaret would never induce
him to do that, charm she never so wisely. Of

the pinch of poverty he had had more than
enough to last him his Kfetiine, and to convince
him that matrimonial happiness was quite irreconcilable
with straitened means. He was
nevertheless— so he believed — deeply in love
with Nellie. He had always suspected himself
of being so; and now various subtle influences,
some of which have been enumerated, turned
his suspicion into certainty. All this being so,
a delicately scrupulous youth might have
thought it his duty to keep out of the maiden's
way, lest perchance he should delude her with
hopes which could never be fulfilled; but Philip,
it is scarcely necessary to say, did not pursue
any such course. What he did was to resume
his chronic flirtation with Nellie just where he
had left it, throwing a little more ardour into
his words and looks as beseemed the increased
reality of his passion, and, for the rest, allowing
himself to drift down stream, in accordance
with his old habit, with a languid, pleased
curiosity as to what might be going to happen
to him next.

One morning, about a fortnight after his
return, he made his appearance at Broom Leas
in an evident state of suppressed excitement,
and hardly gave himself time to say good
morning; before he attacked Miss Brune with a
direct question.

I say, Xellie, is it a fact that you refused
Craybridge last winter ? '

Nellie, who at that moment was standing in
one of the paddocks, trying to induce a shy
young colt to accept a lump of sugar from her
hand, whisked round abruptly, and threw her
lump of sugar away.

Who told you of that? ' she asked ' Was
it Mrs. Stanniforth? She promised me that she
would not mention it to anybody.'

No, it wasn't Meg. I heard it last night
at the Club at Crayminster.'

'The Club? — how disgusting! How do
people find these things out? I wish they
would mind their own business.'

Everybody knows everything; it can't be
helped,' said Philip. ' I must confess that if a
duchess had proposed to me, and I had refused
her, I should immediately publish the fact
abroad myself. You really did refuse him,
then?'

Yes, I really did. Wonderful; wasn't it? '

Upon my word,' answered Philip, looking
at her curiously, ' I think it was rather wonderful.
Why in the world did you do it,
Nellie ?'

Nellie laughed. ' Why did I refuse him ?
Well, for the best of all reasons; I didn't care
enough about him to marry him.'

^ And you call that the best of all reasons ? '
ejaculated Philip, with uplifted hands.

Ah ! ' said Nellie, with a touch of scorn ^
^ you can't understand any girl's resisting the
eldest son of a duke.'

I could only understand it upon one supposition,'
answered Philip, slowly; 'that there
was some one else whom she liked better.'

He pronounced the last words in a low
voice, keeping his eyes on the ground as he
spoke. He raised them just in time to encounter
Nellie's, which were blazing with anger,
while a fine rush of colour had overspread her
face.

Philip,' she cried, ' you are very impertinent
! '

What a little spitfire you are, Nellie !
Surely such old friends as you and I may say
anything to each other. However, I apologise
humbly, and beg leave to withdraw the remark,
since it makes you so angry.'

I am not a bit angry,' returned Nellie ;
but I don't think anybody ought to say a thing
like that. To begin with, it is quite untrue;
and besides '

'What besides?'

Well, I hate that sort of thing being said
about me. What business have you and your
friends at the Cray minster Club to discuss meat

all? I thought ladies' names were never
mentioned at clubs.'

Gracious goodness ! what could have made
you suppose that? All the same, you might
have known that I should not discuss you, nor
allow you to be discussed, in any club of which
I was a member. A man happened to mention
to me .that there was a rumour to the effect that
you had refused Craybridge, and asked me
whether it was true; that was all.'

^ Very well; I don't want to hear any more
about it. Let us change the subject.'

Philip did as he was bid; but although he
ceased to speak of the subjective did not by any
means cease to think of it ; and, at the risk of
lowering him still further in the esteem of the
reader, it must be confessed that he shared in
some degree in the respect which Mrs. Winning-ton
felt for a girl who did not care about becoming
Duchess of Bedford. For this he shall
be despised as much as the reader may think
fit ; but it would be hardly fair to blame him
for believing that the astonishing sacrifice in
question had been made for his sake. Margaret
had no sort of doubt upon the point, and did
not hesitate to say as much when consulted ;
while Nelly's confusion and wrath had seemed
to tell their own tale in tolerably plain language.
Xo wonder that Philip should have

concluded that the prize — if prize it were —
might be his for the asking. And from that
day forth he began to think that perhaps he
would ask for it. After all, there was nothing
to deter him from doing so, except the dread of
privations ; and was it not a matter of certainty
that in a few years' time he would be in receipt
of an income nearly, if not quite, as large as
Signora Tommasini's? At the same time he
was not inclined to do anything hastily. It has
been said before that Philip was fond of a
certain careless method of self-study, and it
would have been strange indeed if he had not

o

found out this much about himself, that none of
his passions or desires were very deep-rooted.
He certainly would not have broken his heart
if Nellie had married Lord Crab ridge ; he did
not suppose that his heart would break if she
were to do so even now ; though the notion of
her belonging to any one else was an excessively
painful one to him. Delay, then, could do no
harm, and might possibly be productive of good ;
and so he came round to his old comfortable
determination to wait upon events.

It will be obvious to any one who cares to
be at the trouble of thinking over the situation
that only a very small event was required, under
these circumstances, to overcome Philip's prudence
and hurry him into a declaration ; and

such an event carne to pass, not many days
later, on the occasion of a dinner-party at
Longbourne. It was a large dinner-party — one
of those dinner-parties which are given only in
the country, where anything like a selection of
company is not to be thought of, and where, if
the table be big enough, everybody must be
asked on the same day, lest unworthy suspicions
should arise of a second division of priests having;
been invited to eat up the leavings of the first.
All the magnates of the surrounding district and
various clerical dignitaries from Crayminster
were present at it ; and, as some of them did not
happen to be upon speaking terms, Mrs.
Winnington had large opportunities for the
display of tact, and enjoyed herself very much.

Philip also had been accustomed to derive a
good deal of quiet enjoyment from these periodical
feasts, which, indeed, were rich in humorous
incident to the appreciative spectator ; but this
time he was not amused at all. In the first
place there was nobody to laugh with him,
Margaret being too busy, and Nellie otherwise
occupied ; and then he was disagreeably conscious
of being overlooked. In London he had
always been somebody ; people had thought
him very clever and diverting, and had listened
to him when he talked ; he had also been a
celebrity in a small way by reason of his well-known

talents. But the fame of these had not
penetrated so far as Crayminster, or, if it had,
was not thought much of there. The squires
and the canons, with their respective wives, who
met round Mrs. Stanniforth's dining table, knew
Mr. Marescalchi only as a dependent of hers,
and, if they noticed him at all, considered him
rather a poor sort of fellow. He had no claims
upon the admiration of any of them. He had
not distinguished himself at Oxford, he was
not seen in the hunting field ; and, for all
that, he gave himself airs and looked conceited.
Philip, therefore, was thrust completely into the
background. But perhaps he would not have
minded that so much if Nellie Brune had not
received such marked recognition from all
quarters ; and that again he would not perhaps
have minded so much if the younger men
of the party had been less assiduous in their
attentions to her. Some of these young men
were rich ; one, in particular, had just come
into an estate which was said to be worth ten
thousand a year, and he was a good-looking
fellow into the bargain. It was he who took
Miss ., Brune in to dinner ; and when Philip saw
him devoting himself to her in a most conspicuous
manner, and Nellie accepting his
devotion with every appearance of complacency,
he began to be assailed by the pangs of jealousy.

If he had used his reasoning powers, he must
have perceived that, having triumphed over the
rivalry of a future duke, he could have little
to fear from a mere country gentleman ;
but when a man is in love — and Philip, it
must be remembered, was really in love — his
reasoning powers are seldom at their best.
Besides, what he experienced was not so mucha
dread that Nelly might marry the eligible
youth as intense dislike to seeing her monopolised
by anybody but himself. In the drawing-room,
after dinner, things were very nearly as
bad. Nellie was then surrounded by a compact
body of men, young and old, married and single,
and there was no getting near her. So he
retired in disgust, and tried to get a rise out of
Mrs. Winnington by making violent love to
Edith ; but here again he was doomed to failure.
Edith sat bolt upright in her chair, looking
absolutely blank and not listening to a
word that he said, and Mrs. Winnino^ton
was no longer to be drawn by that threadbare
stratagem.

The evening was long and dull, as such
evenings must inevitably be, and probably no
one in the room was more bored by it than
Philip. It ended, however, with one of those
strokes of luck which fell to his share so
frequently that he had come to look upon them

as in some sort his birthright. Mr. Brune, who
had been obliged to go up to London for the
day, and who was to return by the last train,
had arranged that the brougham which was to
bring him up from the station should proceed to
Lontrbourne afterwards and fetch his daughter.
But as this could not be much before midnight,
as the last of the guests departed while the
clock was striking eleven, and as there was a
brilliant moon outside, Miss Brune took it into
her head that she would prefer to walk, and
anticipated the proposition that was on Philip's
lips by asking him point-blank to see her home.
It was thus that Philip, having thrown the
reins upon the neck of events, found himself
gently hurried by them along a path which he
was not unwilling to follow. The time and the
hour had evidently come ; the mise en scene ^ ashe
said to himself with a little inward laugh,
was quite what it ought to be. Here were
silence, solitude, a sleeping world bathed in the
mysterious silvery light of the moon ; here was
the beloved object tripping by his side across
the broad black shadows of the lime-trees ; it
only remained for him to say what he had to
say in as pretty and apposite words as he could
command. And long before the lodge had come
in sight he had said it. His heart beat a little
more prickly while he waited for his answer,

but only a little more quickly ; seeing that he
had not really any doubt at all as to what that
answer would be.

Apparently it was Xellie Brune's fate to
astonish her suitors. She astonished Philip
very much indeed ; for she not only walked on
without replying, but she did not even look at
him, or turn away her head and allow him to
gain possession of her hand, or signify her consent
in any fashion whatsoever. He was obliged
at last to repeat his question ; and then she
answered, as coolly as if she had been remarking
that it was a fine nio'ht, ' I was thinking.'

After that she walked on for several yards in
silence, and then said. * Philip, are you quits
sure that you wish this ? '

• Xellie I ' he exclaimed reproachfully.

•I mean, do you really wish it very much?
Because, unless you do '

If there was an art of which Philip was
complete master, it was that of love-making
was always so thoroughly in earnest for the
moment. He begged and implored now as
humbly as if he had not felt certain in his heart
of success ; he protested — believing firmly in
the truth of the statement, as he made it — that
Xellie had been the one love of his life ; he
reminded her of the vows which they had exchanged
as children, and assured her that he

VOL. II. Q

had never in reality swerved from his allegiance.
He acknowledged that she had every right to
think him fickle ; he had. as she knew, lead
many other fancies ; but they had only been
fancies. In short, he had been a boy ; and now
he eras a man, and knew his own mind. All
this, and a great deal more, he said ; winding
up with a candid avowal that he had not intended
to tell her of his love so soon. He had
felt that he ought not to speak so long as he had
not a home and an assured income to offer ; and
this was why she had perhaps fancied him
lukewarm.

That was not quite what I meant,' answered
leslie, as soon as he had done. ' I have
known for a long time that ]\frs. Stanniforth
wished this very much, and lately I have
thought that you wished it too — in a way.
Only it struck me that, if you were not very
much set upon it, it would be so much nicer to
go on as wee are. I can't explain exactly,'
she went on, speaking more rapidly ; ' but, do
you know, Philip, I am afraid sometimes that I
have no heart. I am fond of you ; I have
been very fond of you all my life. You always
came next to Walter.'

Next to Walter ! ' ejaculated Philip in
doleful accents.

I am very sorry ; I can't help it,' said

Xellie penitently. • I thought I ought to tell
you.'

The blow to Philip's vanity was so severe
and so unexpected that he could not help laughing
a little, though he felt very sore.

• The long and the short of it is,' said he,
that I have been ass enough to flatter myself
that you cared for me as I do for you, when all
the time you have had nothing but a sort of
sisterly affection for me. I have brought this
upon myself, and I must try to make the best
of it, that's all.'

She saw that he was hurt, though he spoke
so lightly, and she looked up at him with a
humble, deprecating gaze which rather puzzled
him. • It isn't only a sort of affection,' she
said ; ' it's a great deal more than that.'

Suddenly it flashed across Philip that here
was a new variety of the genus woman. He
had heard of o^rls who could not acknowledge
to themselves that they were in love until they
were taught to do so ; he believed that in the
early years of the century all women were like
that, or were supposed to be so. Might not
this one, who was country-bred, be a survival of
that bygone type?

Xellie ! ' he exclaimed triumphantly, seizing
her by both hands, ' I believe you do love
me, in spite of all you say ! Tell me one thing:

did you ever meet another man whom you could
by any possibility have thought of marrying?'

No she answered promptly and decidedly ;
certainly not.'

Then ! ' cried Philip.

Ah, but,' she interrupted, drawing back
from him, ' I don't think I love even you
enough to marry you. At least, I don't think I
love you in the right way. I wish I did ; but
I'm afraid I don't.'

Nellie,' said PhiUp gravely, ' don't throw
away your happiness and mine like this. I
won't ask you for a final answer to-night ; but
tomorrow, or the day after, if you like, you
shall tell me whether I may hope for all that I
care to live for, or whether I am to go straight
to the dogs — ^as I certainly shall, if I have nothing
in life to look forward tOi'

She caught at this respite eagerly, promising
that, if it were possible, it should be as he
wished ; but entreating him not to conclude
that, because she had not said Xo at once, she
might not be forced to do so afterwards. She
(lid not understand herself, she said, and could
not expect that he should understand her.

But Philip understood perfectly well that
the battle was as good as won.

CHAPTER XXn.

MRS. PIIOSSER's SENSE OF DUTY.

There are few states in life more vexatious and
humiliating; than that of not knowing: one's own
mind. It is also absurd, for what should be
easier than to discover whether one personally
desires a thing or not? When the wishes or
advantage of others have to be taken into
consideration, some degree of indecision maybe
pardonable ; but Nellie Brune could not
plead any such complications as an excuse for
her inability to solve the problem set before her.
She knew perfectly well that she might send
Philip about his business without any fear of
permanently blighting a fair existence, and she
very properly concluded that all she had to do
was to satisfy herself of her own inclination o in
the matter. It was therefore especially provoking
to one of her rather impatient temperament
to find that this was what she could not accomplish,
and that after many hours of shilly-shallying
she was not only in as much doubt as

ever upon the main point of whether she could
accept the man or not, but also puzzled to
account to herself for a very decided feeling of
anxiety to accept him if she could.

In this perplexity she resolved to adopt a
course which, if not wise, was at any rate calculated
to put an end to suspense. She went to
Mrs. Stanniforth and begged for enlightenment
and advice. From the responsibility thus cast
upon her it may be well supposed that Margaret
did not for one moment shrink. She boo^an bv
embracing Nellie, and saying how delighted she
was that things had all come right at last, and
then proceeded to laugh heartily at the girl's
misgivings. Lookers-on, she remarked with
much originality, saw most of the game, and it
was a very long time since she had begun to
watch this one, and to perceive the signification
of all its moves.

Poor Philip ! ' she said compassionately ; ' I
can quite understand now why he has kept
away from us all these months. Philip has
more pride than people think, and of course he
would rather not have spoken until he had some
thousands a year to lay at your feet. But the
thousands will come all in good time ; and if
you have to begin with the hundreds — what of
that? You must remember that you are my
children, both of you, and that it is a mother's

privilege to help her children out, when she can.
As for you, my dear Xellie, you are simply
made up of pride, or you wouldn't mind acknowledging
the truth. Why, you silly child,
you have been in love with Philip all your life,
and I could prove it to you without any difficulty
if I chose. But I will only ask you one thing.
Why did you refuse Lord Craybridge? '

Oh, I couldn't have married Lord Cray-bridge
! ' answered Xellie. * That was different.'


Of course it was different,' cried Margaret
triumphantly ; ' there was all the difference in
the world between the two cases. Don't you
understand that it is quite possible to feel some
doubt as to whether you love a man, but that
you cannot be in any doubt at all when you
don't.'

Whatever this reasoning may have been
worth in the abstract, Nellie had little to urge
against it as applied to herself She had had
recourse to Margaret's counsel in order to be
convinced, and was not disposed to criticise the
shape in which conviction might be brought
home to her. Xor, when once she had cast
away all hesitation from her, had Philip much
reason to complain of her coldness. She was
not quite as demonstrative as he would have
liked her to be ; but she welcomed him gladly

at all hours ; she seemed to be happy in his
presence, and she made a pont of gratifying
every whim and caprice of his with a pretty
little air of submission which was the more
charming to him because in all their previous
intercourse she had shown herself anything but
submissive.

Philip, indeed, had nothing to complain of.
unless it were the reception accorded to him by
his future father-in-law, which was not marked
by any excess of cordiality. Mr. Brune had
his own opinion of Philip, and had objections
to him as a son-in-law quite apart from that
of insufficiency of means. The latter, he Alas
sure, was a strong one enough for all practical
purposes, and had the advantage of being one
that could be openly urged ; but Mr. Brune did
not succeed in making' much out of it. How is
a father to prevent his daughter from marrying
whom she pleases? Mothers may do these
things ; but when it comes to an ultimate trial
of strength, fathers are helpless. So at least
Mr. Brune averred, with a sigh and a shrug of
the shoulders. Did he or did he not wish that
his daughter should be happy? Margaret desired
to be informed ; and when he replied that
the prospect of her marrying Philip was objectionable
to him precisely because he doubted
whether it would conduce to her happiness

Mrs. Stannifortli asked him, with compassionate
disdain, whether he really supposed that he was
the best judge of that.

• I had had the effrontery to form some such
idea,' Mr. Brune replied meekly ; • bit no doubt
it is better to yield before one lias been ignominiously
defeated than after. Have your own
way ; and then, when all manner of trouble
comes of it. blame me. One condition I do,
however, feel myself strong enough to stand out
for. There shall be no marriage until Philip
can show me that he is in receipt of a reasonable
income, and one that is likely to be permanent.'


If Mr. Brime carried his point in this particular,
it was perhaps less owing to his firmness
than to the tact that he had no o-reat amount of
opposition to contend against as regarded it.
Mrs. Stanniforth would have liked to see the
young couple united forthwith, and hinted that
the means to provide them with a modest home
should not be lacking; but both Philip and
Nellie displayed a commendable prudence in the
matter, and declared that it ^\-ould never do for
them to start upon an income of nothing a year.
They were both young, they observed; they
had all their lives before them, and they were
very well satisfied with the existing state of
things. Philip added that he was determined

not to be a burden upon dear old Meg any longer
than he could help,

A most becoming sentiment,' said Mr.
Brune, when this speech was duly reported to
him by Margaret ; ' and if he postpones his
wedding until he is quite independent, it is
probable that I shall no longer be here to mar
the ceremony by acting the part of wet blanket.
Meanwhile I must trust to the chapter of accidents.
In two years' time — I think you said it
would take PhiUp two years to become a millionaire
— many things may happen. The poor
fellow may die, or he may elope with a pretty
actress, or '

I wish you would not talk like that,' interrupted
Margaret ; ' you know you don't mean
what you say.'

My dear Mrs. Stanniforth, I am like the
Barber of Seville ; I laugh because I don't want
to do the other thing. And we know that life
is uncertain, and actresses are often fascinating.
By the way, Philip was saying something the
other day about going to Italy to perfect his
voice. What an excellent plan that would be !
He must study somewhere of course, and
Italy would be in so many ways preferable to
London.'

I suppose it would,' said Margaret thoughtfully.


Oh, I don't think there can be a doubt of it.
Florence, nor, is a good place — especially' in
winter. There is a nice bracing tramontana
there which blows down from the Apennines,
and which has been found very effective in
many cases. I believe. But then, again, much
might be hoped for from the sanitary arrangements
at Naples. At both places there should
be an ample supply of beauteous algerine, and
others. Now I do trust, my dear ]\lrs. Tannin
that you will urge him to lose no time in
becoming acquainted with the land of his birth.
Ah, dear me I — and to think that, but for you,
he might have been living a contented and
picturesque life there at this moment as a strolling
player, or a brigand, or an improvisaiore, or
something of that kind.'

Margaret did not like to hear Mr. Brune
make such speeches as this, but she consoled
herself by reflecting that it was only his way.
After all, he was tractable enough as regarded
essential points, and a great deal less severe than
her mother.

Mrs. AVinnino'ton, when told of the eno-ao^e-
ment, observed that it was no affair of hers,
and that she should abstain from making any
comment whatever upon it ; but, just as a
matter of curiosity, she would be glad to know
one thing : upon what — or perhaps she ought

rather to say upon whom — did this precious pair
propose to live?

Margaret, with a rather guilty air, replied
that Philip had at least as good a chance of
succeeding in his profession as other young
men.

Oh ! I was not aware that he had a profession,'
returned her mother. And as Margaret
judged it best to make no rejoinder, and to goon
stitching; silently at a s'ors^eous chasuble
destined eventually to adorn the back of the
rector of the parish, Mrs. Winnington was compelled,
after a time, to recur to the subject
uninvited.

Dear Margaret,' said she, ' you know how
very seldom I allow myself to interfere with
you in any way. I see many foolish things
done from the best motives ; I see you imposed
upon constantly — I might almost say every
hour ; but I hold my tongue. It is not always
easy ; but I think it is right — I hope it is right.
Let me just for once break through my rule.,
and ask you whether you have considered what
you are doing in encouraging this wild scheme.
Surely you must see that these two and their
family — for of course they will have a family,
and an enormous one ; people without a sixpence
always do — you must see that they will
be dependent wholly and solely upon your

charity. Now. is that desirable? Is it even
practicable? By stinting yourself and your
own — ahem ! — by stinting yourself you may,
and I have no doubt you will, manage to give
them every luxury so long as you live ; but we
must look at contingencies, and we must remember
at your death you will be able to leave
them next to nothing ; and what will come
then ? Penury — starvation — the workhouse I '
Mrs. Winnington's voice and gestures as she
drew this prophetic outline were quite dramatic.
^ As I said before,' she resumed, • I shall not
interfere, nor shall I offer any comment ; but
of all the barefaced piracies that I have seen
practised upon you yet, this does strike meas
'

• You don't understand, mother,' broke in
Margaret in her quiet voice. ' Philip would
not allow me to support him, even if I were able
and willing to do so ; and Mr. Brune expressly
stipulated for a long engagement in order to
avoid any risk of the kind }"ou mention.'

But ]airs. Vrinnin^ton's only reply took the
form of a sound resembling; the snorting a
dog at a closed door. Such transparent professions
were not likely to deceive her, Mrs.
Winston knew the world, and was not so
simple as to believe that ir contained any sincere
or conscientious people, except herself.

Margaret, for lier part, had not expected
much sympathy from her mother, whose watchful
care of her interests appeared to her very
natural and excusable ; but at the same time it
was disheartening to meet with opposition from
all sides, and she bevan to wonder whether
Hugh would show himself less prejudiced than
others. Upon the whole this seemed so improbable
that she resolved to write nothing to
him upon the subject as yet.

The dialogue just recorded had one remarkable
result, in that it caused Margaret to do a
thin Of which she had not done before in the
course of close upon a dozen years of patient
forbearance — namely, to lose her temper with
Mrs. Prosser. Mrs. Prosser, it must be confessed,
was enough to try the patience of any
mistress, and to drive a harassed one out of all
power of self-control. She was always in the
right, but she was not contented with that,
unless she could' respectfully prove somebody
else to be in the wrong ; she always got her
own way ; but in order to derive any satisfaction
from doing so she was compelled artfully
to stir up and overcome some preliminary opposition.
She had received a great deal of kindness,
first and last, from Margaret, for whom
she had conceived a proportionately strong dislike.
It was Mrs. Pressed's custom to present

herself for what she was facetiously pleased to
call her orders in the dining-room every morning
; and on this particular morning it Alas
evident that she had brought an exhilarating
grievance with her.

^ Well. Prosser. what is it now?' asked
Margaret resignedly, perceiving, from several
familiar signs, what was in store for her.

I beg your pardon, ma'am ! ' said Mrs.
Prosser, with a face expressing many deferential
notes of interrogation.

You have got something to complain of,
and I am rather in a hurry. Please say what
it is at once, and let us get it over.'

Oh, it's of no consequence, ma'am, not if it
was to put you out so. There is a matter which
I should feel it my duty for to mention it to
you ; but I should prefer to wait till to-morrow,
rather than to annoy you

I will hear it to-day, please.'

Eight-and-forty years have I lived in this
house, girl and woman '

Oh, Prosser, I know all that,' interrupted
Margaret with a short, vexed laugh. ' Do come
to the point.'

And never till now was I asked to sit down
to my meals with a Dissenter. Neither of my
poor masters that's gone was what you could
call a bigot ; but '

By all accounts, they Avere anything but
that,' struck in Margaret, who usually allowed
such references to pass without comment, but
whose nerves were now in a state of unwonted
irritation. ' I suppose it is the new housemaid
who has offended you. Well, you may be reassured.
She is a Churchv/oman, and she told
me so when I engaged her.'

Ah, just so, ma'am. She were engaged
without m^' knowledge, or perhaps a few more
inquiries would have been made. But to church
she have not been, and it did come to my ears
that her parents was Alabaster.'

Were icliat ? I suppose you mean Anabaptists.'


Very likely, ma'am,' answered Mrs. Prosser,
with a faint superior smile ; '' I have never troubled
myself to learn the names of such persuasions.
The girl answered me very short and disrespectful
when I put a few questions to her, and I
Sive her to understand that she had best lookout
for another situation.'

You know perfectly ^vell, Prosser, that I
never allow you to dismiss servants. I had a
very good character with this girl, and I am not
going to send her away because her parents are
Dissenters — if they are Dissenters.'

Mrs. Prosser's face grew \qyj dark. ' You'll
excuse oF me mentioning it, ma'am,' said she

with cold dignity ; ' but I don't think this is
what Mr. Langley would approve.'

It was at this point that ]\Iai'garet lost her
temper. ' Prosser,' she exclaimed, ' your impertinence
is past all bearing! I cannot submit
to be dictated to in this way either by you or by
Mr. Langley. The truth is that I have given
way to you a great deal too much, and now you
forget yourself. Be so good as to understand,
once for all, that I intend to be mistress in my
own house.'

Certainly, ma'am ; and I'm glad to hear
that such is your intentions,' replied Mrs. Prosser
meaningly. ' But if all authority is. to be took
out of my hands, it will be an impossibility forme
to discharge my duties to your satisfaction,
let alone my own. I feel that I didn't ought for
to accept such a position, ma'am — though I shall
be pleased to remain with you till you are
suited.'

Margaret did not attach much importance to
this threat of resignation, which had been
uttered many times before, and which she knew
was not meant to be taken seriously ; but she
was dissatisfied v>^itii herself for having been betrayed
into so much Warmth of language, and,
besides this, she was very much afraid that the
offending housemaid would have to go in the
long run, after all. There is no disguising the

VOL. II. R

fact that Margaret's character was a weak one,
and she herself was painfully aware of it.

It is most humiliating to be such a poor
creature ; but I am afraid I am too old to
reform now,' she said later in the day to Philip,
whom she had informed of this domestic broil,
and who laughed unmercifully at her.

You make mountains out of molehills, Meg,'
said he, ' and troubles out of blessings. What
could ]ye sl greater blessing to you than that old
Prosser should take herself off ? But she won't
take herself off. Perhaps, if you are very good,
she won't even ask you to beg her pardon. PlI
have a talk with her, and make it all right.
Dear me, what a lucky thing it is that we are
not all like you ! If I had been, I should have
worried myself into my grave long ago.'

There was assuredly no fear of Philip's life
being shortened by worry. Young though he
was, he had had troubles of the kid which trace
wrinkles upon most men's faces ; but they had
left no more upon his than a passing gust of
wind leaves upon the smooth surface of a lake.
It was barely two months since Fanny had predicted
that he would marry Xellie Bruise. and
but little more than a month since she had been
laid in her grave, and prediction and prophetess
were alike to all intents and purposes forgotten
by Philip. He did not forget Fanny in a literal

sense ; he thought of her sometimes, but only
when he could not help it. For it always made
him sad to think of her : not with a dreamy,
pathetic sadness, which he would have rather
enjoyed ; but With a sharp, swinging pain, unpleasantly
suggestive of a guilty conscience.
This, he told himself, was absurd. It was a
morbid feeling which ought not to be encouraged
; and it must be owned he was very
successful in his efforts to subdue it. Altogether,
there was probably not, at this time, a
more light-hearted creature in the whole county
than Philip Marescalchi. His past life contained
a great secret which might be divulged
at any moment, and which, if divulged, would
almost certainly alienate from him the affection
of the girl whom i.e loved : he owed some
thousands of pounds to a woman whom he half
suspected of being in love with him and whom
he did not in the least see his way to repay ; his
future career was as speculative and shadowy
as anything could ^vell be ; but none of these
things weighed upon his mind. With his
present life he was entirely satisfied. The
weather was perfection ; so was the fresh
country air ; and so, above all, was Xellie.

In the latter he discovered fresh attractions
every day. One of the most delightful things
about her was that he did not quite understand

E 2

her : and she was so prettily impatient when she
was not understood. She was not particularly
clever or witty, or well-informed ; bit she had
decided and original ways of looking at common
things which would, he felt sure, render her
the most charming companion for life that a
man could wish for. He was with her now
every day, and almost all day, and she never
wearied him. He sauntered over to Broom
Leas to meet her, as soon as he had left
Margaret, and made for a certain spot in the
orchard where she had told him that she would
be. He caught sight of her from afar, as she
stood under an apple-tree, reading a letter, and,
stealing up softly behind her over the long grass,
suddenly laid a hand upon each of her shoulders.

She started violently, and exclaimed, with a
stamp of her little foot, ' Oh, I wish you would
not do that! If you only knew how I hate
people who make me jump ! '

Is that the way to speak to your future
husband ? ' demanded Philip gravely. ' And,
oh, Xellie, what are you stuffing into your
pocket in that guilty and utterly futile way?
Don't you know that love-letters ought always
to be read within four walls, or else boldly
flourished in the face of the world ? '

It isn't a love-letter,' answered nellie,
Icoking^ a little alarmed : ' it's only from

Walter, and — you can see it, Philip, if you
like ; but '

But it wouldn't increase my vanity if I did ;
isn't that what you mean ? Walter disapproves
; and between you and me, Nellie. I
don't wonder at it. Walter, you see, knows mea
oTcat deal better than you do. I don't want
to see his letter, because I can tell you exactly
what he says without looking at it. " Philip
has no business to think about marrying at all.
He is a pauper, and he is so confoundedly lazy
that he will never be anything else. Added to
which he is not a tenth part good enough for you ;
and he has many small vices, such as iiirtins:
with other men's wives, and leavings bills
unpaid, and playing cards on Sunday," &c. The
worst of it is that it's true, too.'

Xellie laughed. ' You are quite wrong,'
she answered ; ' he doesn't say anything of the
kind ; but he thinks long engagements are a
mistake, and he is afraid you are rather too
sanguine about making your fortune. Walter is
verj^ practical, you know : he always was so,
and I think the atmosphere of the City is having,
its effect upon him. How I wish he would give
up that horrid bank ! I don't in the least believe
that Uncle William will push him on.
Walter says he is an odious old man ; but he
dines with him once a greek. and I have a sort of

lingering hope that, as the old fellow has quarrelled
with all his other relations, he may make
Walter his hen out of spite to them.'

^ Poor old Walter ! ' said Philip compassionately.
He guessed, from the haste with which
Nellie had led the conversation away from the
letter, that it contained expressions not very
complimentary to himself; but he bore no malice.
For a long time he had felt himself to be superior
to Walter, and a sense of superiority engenders
pity, which, as we know, is akin to love. It is
not altogether true that the world delights in
kicking those who are down. The world would
dearly love to kick those who are up, if it dared,
and even does so after a surreptitious fashion.
To be successful is to insult your fellow-creatures ;
but to fail is to administer a delicate compliment
to their vanity, and to establish a large claim
upon their indulgence. Only give people the
right to speak of you as ' poor So-and-so,' and
you will never lack friends.

Now Walter midst certainly be considered a
failure. He had failed in love, and to all appearance
he had failed also in life, having sunk from
the position of a country gentleman to that of a
banker's clerk. Philip forgave him from his
heart, and the more readily inasmuch as he did
not believe it to be in Walter's power to do him
the smallest injury. Tf there were some things

in Nellie which he did not understand, he understood
at least this much, that when once she had
put her hand to the plough she might be counted
upon not to look back.

He passed his arm through hers, and they
moved slowly at^'ay to the highest point of the
orchard, whence the woods of Longbourne could
be seen beyond fields and pastures. Just then
the branches of the trees, which had hardly yet
assumed their green summer garb, showed black
and clear against the glow of the sunset ; long
shafts of light, streaming through them, lay
across the meadows and fell upon little glistening
pools. In the still evening air the tinkling of
Mr. Langley's church bell, a mile and a half
away, sounded close at hand.

How beautiful and peaceful it is ! ' said
Nellie. ' I don't wonder at your being glad to comedown
here again after all that time in London. I
am sure I could never bear to live in a great
city. Doesn't this seem like Arcadia to you ? '

The phrase suggested memories to Philip
which were not wholly pleasing. ' Arcadia would
be a slow sort of place to live in, I should think,'
he said ; ' as slow as Boeotia. Both countries
might be very well in spring and summer time,
but what would they be when the leaves were
off the trees and all the nymphs and dryads were
liberating ? You are really not made for a

country life, Xellie, whatever you may say ; and
when you have once become accustomed to
London you will feel as if sou were only half
alive away fi^om it. I suppose we shall live in
London ; but then, you know, we shall be always
travelling about — to Paris and St. Petersburg
and Madrid, and I don't know where else — ■
according to my engagements. I dare say we
shall be abroad as much as in England.'

'Oh, I was not thinking about that,' answered
Nellie hastily ; ' that will not be for a
great many yews ; we needn't trouble about it.'
Well, I don't know about a great many.
Two years — three years perhaps.'

Oh, I should think it will be at least five.
You will not be able to appear on the stage at
all, you know, for two or three years. You said
so the other day. I wonder what opera you will
make your debut in. I think I should like it to
be Faust, because the dresses are so pretty, and
you know you are fond of pretty dresses. Tell
me about all the operas that there are. I have
only seen three in my life.'

The opera and the lustre destined to be reflected
upon it by Mr. Marescalchi took up a
somewhat undue share of the conversation of
these lovers. It was Nellie who usually brought
forward the subject ; but it was not in any way
objected to by Philip, who could talk contentedly

about himself for a considerable length of lime,
provided that he was listened to with proper interest.
He talked about himself now until it
was time for him to go, and apologised to Xellie,
as he said irood-nio'ht, for having wearied her
with his egotism. But she answered quite
truthfully that he had not wearied her at all ;
and indeed every one must have noticed that
egotists are not always bores, though bores are
always egotists.

Philip, not at all suspecting himself of being
either the one or the other, started on his homeward
way, whistling softly as he went, and was
amused to see a stout figure, arrayed in black
silk, stationed outside the rectory rates. and
evidently waiting for him.

Old Prosser has jot into a funk this time
thought he, ' and is o-oino- to ask me to intercede
for her. Shall I do leg a good turn, and make
the old sinner eat humble pie ? I think I will.'

Mrs. Prosser dropped a curtsey, and said
^ Good evening, sir.'

"Well. ]airs. Prosser — been to confession ?
It won't do. I'm afraid. Your priest may forgive
you, but your mistress never will. Why
are you such a cross-obtained, cantankerous old
woman ? You can't expect people to go on
having patience with you for ever.'

Philip had always been a favourite with Mrs.

Prosser. Her hard features contorted themselves
into something that was meant to do duty for a
smile as she answered. 'Oh. I am well aware,
sir, that if me and Mrs. Stauniforth has not goton
as well together as could be wished, there has
been faults on both sides. I hope I can forgive
and forget as well as another, and 1 don't bear
no sort of ill-feeling against Mrs. Stanniforth.
But it's doubtful whether I can remain much
Ion O'er in her service.'

Don't be such a pig-headed old idiot, Mrs.
Prosser. There are plenty of good housekeepers
to be had for good wages ; but you won't find
such another place as Longbourne in a hurry.'

I didn't say nothing about leaving Long-bourne,
sir,' observed !Mrs. Prosser with quiet
emphasis.

Do you mean to give Mrs. Stanniforth
notice to quit, then ? ' asked Philip, laughing.
I believe you are capable of it.'

Well, sir, I don't know but what I am.
I have been waiting here, Mr. Philip, some
little time for to take the opportunity of telling
you something which weighs upon my conscience.
If you would pardon the liberty, sir,
I would make bold to walk as far as the house
alongside of you. Being twilight, and most
people gone home to their teas, you would
perhaps be so kind as to overlook the freedom.'

Come along, Mrs. Prosser ; I should be
proud to be seen by the whole parish in such
respectable company.'

You are so kind as to say so, sir.'

Mrs. Prosser cleared her voice, and then
proceeded with great solemnity : ' What I am
going to tell you, sir, has been told to no living
soul, except under seal of confession, for a matter
of twenty years. Twenty years have I kept
silence ; but the time has come that I can't
reconcile it with my sense of right for to do sono
longer. But before I say any more, sir, I
must ask you to give me your word that you
won't let it go no further till I'm proved to be
right or wrong.'

Mrs. Prosser, you may rely on my absolute
discretion.'

Mrs. Prosser cast a sharp side glance at
Philip. ' 'Tis no joking matter, sir,' said she,
slightly offended. ' Mr. Brune must not know
of this, nor yet Mrs. Stanniforth must not know,
nor yet Miss Xellie must not know — leastways
until it's necessary that everybody should be
told.'

Go on, Mrs. Prosser ; you excite my curiosity
greatly. Ill swear not to breathe a word to a
creature till you five me leave. Will that do
for you ? '

'Thank you, sir; that will, be sufficient. I

don't know whether you ever heard tell of my
old master, Mr. George Brune, sir, Mr. Neville's
brother that was. He was a fine-spirited gentleman,
though singular in his ways, and terrible
extravagant. Always a-rushing about he was,
from one furrin land to another, and never could
abide his own home ; though lie come back thereto
die. '' Prosser," he says to me when I went
to meet him at the door, " Prosser," he says —
I remember it as if 'twas yesterday — " Pve come
back to Longbourne to die, you see." Oh dear,
oh dear ! it give me such a turn ! '

I am sure it must have been a great shock
to you. Yell ; and so he confided an awful
family secret to you on his death-bed. I don't
want to burn' you, Mrs. Prosser, but it's getting
rather late.'

I shall not detain you long, sir. As I was
a-saying when you interrupted me, sir, Mr.
George were always on the move, and we was
never told how long he was to be away, nor
when we was to expect him back. Sometimes
he'd stop a month, and sometimes only a couple
of days ; and once we was for two years without
seeing or hearing of him. He were in Italy at
that time, as I understood. Now, sir, I essay
you're aware that there's a many things which
servants hear of and don't mention, and it did
some to my ears, through Parsons, Mr. George's

man. that there was a hide in Italy. Parsons,
he Avere always a very close man — been dead
now — let me see — going on for fifteen years it
is since Parsons died, and never told no more
about it ; but it did come oat in the course of
conversation, you understand, sir. that there
were a lady. At first I thought it were one
of those connections which I didn't ouo'ht to
speak about nor think about : but when poor
Mr. George were a-dying I changed my opinion,
sir. ]mysterious, indeed, is the decrees of Providence,
and His ways past finding out ! Little
did I think, as I listened to that poor gentleman's
ravings, that I should be repeating them
to you, sir, twenty years later in this park I '

• Mrs. Prosser, I would not for the world
spoil your climax ; but I can't help seeing what
is coming. I have no strawberry-mark on my
left arm. And now, where is Mr. Brune's
marriage certificate ? '

• Reply, sir, if you fluster me so we shall
never get on. If there had been any marriage
certificate, do yoti think I should have ventured
for to conceal it ? I don't know nothing for
certain ; and what I do know mttst be strictly
betwixt me and you, sir, if you please, for the
present. I nursed poor Mr. George, night and
day, through his last illness, and what he said
in his delirium, it was impossible for me to shut

my eyes to it, sir. He kep' on talking very
excited about a marriage, and " They can't dispute
it," lie says ; '" 'twas all regular," he says.
And when I ask him what marriage, and where
did it take place, and so forth— just to soothe
him like, you understand, sir — he opens his
eyes wide, and says, " Why, at Florence, you
fool, and that brat's the heir." After that he
didn't say no more — not to be intelligible ; but
once I heard him muttering, " I'm sorry for
poor Xeville ; Xeville's in the wrong box ; " and
once, if you'll pardon of my repeating the expression,
sir, he calls out, " What a damned ass
I was ! " I ought to have mentioned that just
before he was took so bad he made me fetch a
box full of letters and burn them before his eyes.
They was mostly letters written in a furrin
language ; but there was no envelopes, so I
couldn't tell whether they was from Italy or
not. And ^- Prosser," he says to me, " you're a
faithful creature," he says, " and you'll find I've
not forgot you in my drill." And then he lies
back on his piller. and laughs. Pie had a very
curious laugh, had Mr. George ; and to be sure
there was never any will found. Now, sir, you
know all that I know, and }'ou can judge whether
it's your interest to look into it or not.'

'Upon my word, Mrs. Prosser,' answered
Philip, who was a good deal more startled and

excited than he chose to appear, ' I don't see
that it is. Have you any reason at all, beyond
the fact that I was born in Italy, for supposing
me to be the brat to whom your master so
politely alluded ? '

Look in the glass, sir,' replied Mrs. Prosser,
^ and you will see a very good reason. How
you can have lived here all these years and no
one noticed v.hat you was the moral of Mr;
Seville, barring the eyes, is what I can't comprehend.
But I never felt no doubt in my own
mind from the very first. Moment as I heard
the name of Merryskulker, I says to myself,
^^ 'lis him'"

I do not quite follow the deductive process;
but it is possible that there may be something in
it. I should like to know, by the way, vrhy
you have never said anything about all this
before.'

Sir,' answered j.Irs. Prosser gravely, ' it
have been a point of conscience with me. Were
I justified, I have ask myself, in betraying: things
as I were never meant to hear, and as come to
my knowledge almost in an unfair way, as one
may say ? And then, I says to myself, What is
the good ? If 'tis true, depend upon it truth
will out, without my meddling ; and why am I
to do an injury to the family as I owe everything
to under Providence ? For, you see, sir,

you m:iy be a Brave, or you may not ; but I
could never feel to you quite the same as I do
to Mr. Neville.'

Creditable, Mrs. Prosser, if a trifle casuistic.
And then, I suppose, the temptation to turn
Mrs. Stanniforth out of house and home was too
much for you.'

That, sir, is a speech which your poor father
AYOuld have known me better than to make,
No ; my motives was very different. When I
heard how things was with you and Miss Nellie,
my booty come more plain to me. Thinks I,
Mr. Philip and Mr. Neville will settle it amicable
now, as betwixt father and son ; them Tannin
can have their purchase-money back by
degrees, and 't won't be so very much as will be
owing to them when you take off what they got
from the railway ; and so no one won't suffer,
and the family will come by its own again.
That's what I thought, sir ; and Mr. Langley,
he approve cordial, and, " Better late than never,"
he says ; though '

Mr. Langley ! Do you mean to say that
Mr. Langley has known of this all along ?

Under seal of confession, sir.'

By Jove ! Do you know, Mrs. Prosser, I
am not at all sure that you and Mr Langley
have not been compounding a felony under seal
of confession ? '

Not a vestige of proof, sir, if you'll please
to recollect. Nothings but the ravines of a dvinor
man to go by, and no names mentioned even in
the course of them ravings.'

Very true. I dare say you have found a
Tare's nest, after all.'

Perhaps so, sir. But I think it might be
worth your while for to look into it. Florence,
you will remember, sir, were the place, and the
A^ear would be 1853 or 1854. From takins one
thing with another and counting back, I think
as we should be safe in putting the date somewheres
between March and June 1853. I questioned
Parsons very hard about what they was
doing that year and about the Italian lady ; but
I couldn't get no satisfaction out of him. Sometimes
I thought he didn't know so much himself
as he pretended ; for Mr. George would often
send him away for a week or more at a time, to
order rooms or hire villas, or such like, and
'isn't to be supposed as he would want to acquaint
Parsons with his marriage, if so be as
'twas a marriage.'

Philip took out his notebook, and wrote
down * Florence : March to June 1853.' But
this precaution was hardly needed, for the date
remained clearly before his eyes through the
greater part of a restless night ; and the more
VOL. II. s

he thought over Mrs. Prosser's revelation the
more he became convinced that her surmise was
well founded. He had taken her advice of
looking carefully in the glass while dressing
for dinner, and had certainly discerned in the
small, finely-cut features and the dark complexion
reflected therein a decided resemblance
to those of Mr. Brune. The expression was a&
different from his reputed uncle's as it could
possibly be ; and perhaps it may have been
owing to this circumstance that the likeness had
never been noticed by those who were best
acquainted with the two men.

CHAPTER XXIII.

PHILIP AT FLORENCE.

There are people who would rather admit any
imputation in the world than that of being
favoured by Fortune; people who, if told they
are looking well, will remind you reproachfully
that they had a very bad cold in the head the
week before last; people who grumble at comings
into a fortune because of the payment of legacy
duty entailed thereby, and who could not accepta
first-class embassy or a seat in the Cabinet
without sighing over the arduous duties attached
to such posts. But Philip, whatever his defects
may have been, was not one of those ungracious
and ungrateful specimens of humanity. He had
always recognised the fact that his luck was
exceptional; and his first reflection, on waking
out of the short sleep into which he had fallen,
towards morning was an acknowledgment that
in the present instance, as in so many previous
ones, the stars in their courses were fighting for
him. Characteristically enough, he was less

s 2

struck by the strange turn of fortune which
promised to change him from a penniless nobody
into a highly respectable landed proprietor than
by a concurrence of circumstances which seemed
likely to render the task of investigation natural
and easy. Of all cities in Europe Florence was
the one to which he could betake himself at this
time with the least fear of exciting remark or
suspicion. In the ordinary course of things he
would most likely have moved thither before the
autumn; and latterly both Mr. Brune and Margaret
had been hinting to him that he ought not to
lose time in bringing the period of his musical
education to an end. Herr Steinberger, too,
who had not approved very cordially of the
ItaHan plan, would probably prefer that his pupil
should take leave of absence during the busy
time of the London season than later in the
year. He could, in short, go where he wanted
to go, and at the same time tell the literal truth
as to his destination — which was something of
an unwonted luxury for him. He had quite
made up his mind that the mystery should be
solved, if by any means he could solve it; and
really the solution did not seem likely to present
any difficulties whatever.

After breakfast, therefore, Margaret was led
out into the garden, and was informed that Philip
proposed to hasten the fulfilment of his programme

by a few montis. ' Everybody says
that May is the time for Florence,' he remarked;
and I suppose, if one wants to get all the good
one can out of a place, one should take it at its
best. That old Signora Tommasini whom I told
you about will be there soon, and will give me
introductions that may be useful to me. Moreover,
it is high time for me to be setting to work
again, Meg. Capua is very delightful, but stem
duty seems to motion me towards Tuscany.'

^ Capua! where is that?' asked Margaret,
who had not the educational advantages enjoyed
by the young women of the present day.

It is within sight of the towers of Cray-minster
cathedral,' answered Philip; ' and it is
a dangerous residence for lazy people who like
being spoilt. It isn't everybody who appreciates
it at its proper value, though. I don't believe
you care a straw for this dear old place, Meg;
you would go off and leave it tomorrow without
a single regret.'

'Oh, no; indeed I should not!' said Margaret.
* It has taken me a great many years to
get fond of Longbourne; but I am very fond of
it now, and of all its associations. I leave home
so seldom, too, that I have become like a limpet
on a rock, and I should feel utterly lost if I
were dragged off it, and thrown out into the
world again.'

This was not at all the kind of reply that
Philip had wished and expected to receive. He
made haste to change the subject. ' By the way,
Meg,' said he, ' didn't you tell me once that my
father and mother were married at Florence ? '

Margaret threw a quick glance of apprehension
at him. ' I think so,' she answered; ' I
think it was at Florence; but it is so long since
I was told about it that I cannot be quite
sure.'

The truth was that she was far from feeling
as certain as she had once done that this marriage
had ever been solemnised at all. The
improbability of Countess Marescalchi's story
had become more apparent to her with the lapse
of years; and from the same cause sundry little
touches of sincerity about the dying woman's
utterances, which had carried conviction to Margaret's
mind at the time, had lost distinctness.
Philip had not alluded to his father or mother
half a dozen times in the last ten years, and she
was sorry that it should have occurred to him
now to make inquiries about what might prove
to be undiscoverable.

Being in the place, I should rather like to
see the church where they were married. It
seems odd to know so little about one's parents,'
Philip went on. 'I suppose you don't remember
the name of the' church. Mes?'

Margaret shook her head, and looked rather
shamefaced. It struck her for the first time
that she had hardly done her duty towards the
unfortunate woman whose child she had appropriated.
In her anxiety to treat Philip in all
respects as her own son, she had forgotten a little
what her wishes would have been, had she been
in the situation of poor Countess Marescalchi,
and had taken no pains to keep the mother alive
in the memory of the harahino whom she had so
loved.

■' I don't think I ever heard the name of the
church,' Margaret answered . ' Indeed, I am almost
sure I never did. I am afraid I have been very
selfish, Philip,' she added penitently. ' I ought
to have talked more about your mother to you;
and I am sure you must often have wanted to
know about her. Why did you never ask me
before ? '

Philip suddenly burst out laughing, and then
as suddenly checked himself, turning his head
away for a moment. If there was a person in
the world whom he loved, it was Margaret;
he never deceived her without a greater or
less degree of pain; and the contrast between
the true cause of his inquiries and that to
which she attributed them had flashed vividly
across his mind, as his impressions always
did, and had faded away, leaving the echo of

that inappropriate laugh as the trace of its
passage.

Why do you laugh? ' asked Margaret.

I don't know. I don't believe in instinctive
affection, do you? How can one really care
for a person whom one hardly recollects? You
are my real mother, Meg ; and as for my father,
I have small reason to revere his memory, by all
accounts. I should like just to know who he
was, though. One feels a little pardonable
curiosity upon such points.'

^ Yes,' agreed Margaret, with some hesitation;
but I should hope — I should think, at
least — that he must be dead. I have your uncle
Signor Cavestri's address in Florence somewhere ,
and I can give it you, if you like. That is, I
have what was his address twelve years ago: I
have never heard a word of or from him since.'

Give me the address, Meg, and I'll look the
old fellow up. Perhaps he may know something;
and, if he doesn't, it can't be helped.'

I almost hope he may not,' said Margaret.

Philip was not prepared to go quite so far as
that; but he offered the general observation that
it was a queer world, to which Mrs. Stanniforth
signified her assent; and with that the subject
dropped.

A few days after this Philip set out for Italy
with the good wishes of all his friends to speed

him on his way. Some of them drove down to
Crayminster station to bid him farewell; and
the last thing that Philip saw, as the train began
to move, was Nellie, waving her hand and
nodding to him, with the brightest of smiles,
upon her face.

Hurray ! ' exclaimed Mr. Brune, as he
turned to leave the platform. ' My dear Nellie,
may I be permitted to say hurray ? '

You may say anything you like, papa
answered she, with due submission.

Thank you, my dear. How I do dislike
that young man ! '

*Ah; but you would dislike anybody who-wanted
to marry me, wouldn't you ? ' said
Nellie, taking her father's arm and giving it a
squeeze.

Well, well; perhaps so. I can't bear the
sight of Marescalchi, 1 know. However, we've
seen the last of him for the present, and long
may it be before we see him again ! It is my
firm belief that you don't care a brass farthing
for him, Nell.'

And perhaps the very vehemence with which
Miss Brune repelled this accusation may have
confirmed her father in his opinion.

It is certain that Nellie did not shed any
tears, and was in no way cast down by her
lover's departure; nor, for that matter, was the

lover himself cast down. Philip's powers of
amusing and enjoying himself were quite unbounded;
and the pleasure he got out of a
railway journey from England to Florence was
as great as the discomfort entailed thereby upon
common mortals — which is saying a good deal.
The odd types that he encountered among his
fellow-travellers, the novelty of the scenes that
flitted, like dissolving views, past the rail way -
carriage windows, the ever-increasing warmth of
the sun and clearness of the atmosphere, as the
express rushed southwards — all these, and a
hundred other trifles, contributed to divert and
exhilarate him. A fresh sensation awaited him
after the passing of the frontier, namely, a
vague and pleasant stirring of long-buried
memories. Those sallow faces, those high-pitched
voices, those unshaven chins, those
stout and brilliantly-dressed ladies, had he not
known them all in some previous state of existence?
The mulberry-trees, the maize-fields, the
trailing vines, the ragged beggars who loitered
and whined outside the railings of wayside
stations, were not all these familiar, and yet
strange, to him? Even certain faint odours, in
which garlic and bad tobacco had a large share,
seemed to recall shadowy experiences through
which somebody had once passed. Philip really
could not have sworn that he had passed through

them himself. He felt half inclined to shake
hands with the people who got into the railway
carriage; for surely they were all old friends,
though their names had somehow escaped him.
He studied their features with a puzzled smile;
whereupon they smiled back, as Italians are
always ready to do. and promptly entered into
conversation. Philip had some knowledge of
Italian, and his quick ear soon picked up the
intonation of that easiest of tongues: perhaps,
too, memory came to his aid again here. He
managed to make himself agreeable; he scraped
acquaintance with various entertaining persons;
and so arrived at his destination at length, not
at all tired, in a very cheerful frame of mind,
and without having troubled his head once in
the course of his journey about its object.

But when he had established himself comfortably
in an hotel overlooking the Arno, and
had had a bath and an ample breakfast and a
cigar, he began to think it was time to attend
to business, and, strolling out into the sunshine,
inquired his way to the Via di San Giorgio.

The directions that he received were not
very precise, and he had some little difficulty in
following them ; but he was in no hurry. He
spent a very agreeable hour in admiring Giotto's
Campanile, in loitering down the sunny side of
broad thoroughfares, in staring in at shop-windows,

and in exploring a network of narrow
byways. At length, more by chance than intention,
he hit off the street of which he was in
search, and, drawing a slip of paper from his
pocket, compared the address inscribed upon it
with the number of the house before him. ' Via
di San Giorgio, No. 34, tergo piano.' Here,
sure enough, was No. 34 ; and a very dismal
and poverty-stricken habitation it looked. As
Philip climbed the dirty stone staircase, he had
leisure to reflect that an uncle who lived in such
quarters would be a very likely sort of uncle to
make demands upon the purse of a nephew
possessed of landed property ; but parsimony
had never been one of Philip's vices, and he
said to himself that, if things turned out well,
some sort of provision should be made for this
needy relative. It presently appeared, however,
that Signor Cavestri was no longer in a position
to request or require human aid.

Signor Cavestri ! ' cried the dishevelled
servant-of- all work who answered Philip's ring.
Eh ! signore.' And she raised her right hand
and suddenly allowed her head to drop upon it
sideways, as if it would roll off her shoulders.

Philip had never seen this gesture employed
before ; but its meaning required no explanation.
' Do you mean to say that Signor Cavestri
is dead? ' he asked in some dismay.

E morton — e morton — si I ' answered the
AToman, nodding a great many times, in apparent
determination that there should be no
mistake as to the fact of her late master's
demise ; and she went on to state that it was
three years and more since he had been laid to
rest, and to give some particulars of his last
illness, to which Philip paid little attention.

What a bother ! ' he muttered. Then he
said aloud: ' I regret this exceedingly. I have
come all the way from England to see Signor
Cavestri upon a matter of business which I had
hoped might prove advantageous to him. Do
you know whether any relations of his are livings
Florence ? '

Sicuro ! His daughter, the Signora Contraband
her family inhabit the floor upon which your
Excellency is standing,' replied the woman,
upon whom Philip's well-to-do appearance had
not failed to produce some effect. ' With permission,
I will go and call the signora.'

But, before Philip could make any answer,
a third person had come to the front, in the
shape of an obese, dark-haired lady in a rather
dirty white dressing-gown, who may perhaps
have overheard the previous colloquy.

1 am the Signora Bonera,' quoth she, with
a sweeping curtsey and a fascinating smile.
Favorisca, signore.' And she led the way into

a scantily-furnished and careless sitting-room,
and requested the stranger to do her the honour
to sit down.

So you are my cousin ! ' thought Philip, ashe
seated himself with precaution upon a decrepit
arm-chair ; * and you have got a family,
and be hanged to you ! All things considered,
my dear cousin, I shall not reveal my identity to
you until I am obliged.'

He therefore made known the nature of his
errand with much circumlocution and a great
deal of pretended difficulty in expressing himself
in Italian. Signora Bonera became immensely
interested and excited when she heard
what it was that had brought the stranger to
Florence ; she was very inquisitive and asked
numberless questions ; but the greater part of
these Philip affected not to understand. He
soon found out that she was not likely to be of
any assistance to him, and that she knew little or
nothing beyond the fact that her aunt had been
married to a wealthy Englishman, who had
deserted her.

But,' said she, ' my uncle Filippo, who
lives at Bologna, would be able to furnish you
with every particular. He was at the marriage
himself, as I have often heard him tell, and he
can prove, if that is what is wanted, that it was
a good marriage. I will write to him this evening,

and beg him to come here and meet you.
Lo zio is growing an old man — and there is the
cost of the journey. But doubtless the signore
has the means '

An expressive pause seemed to call for some
rejoinder from Philip, who bowed and said there
would be no difficulty on the score of legitimate
expenses.

I will write by the very next post cried
the Signora Bonera. ' And what name shall I
have the pleasure of mentioning to my uncle ? '"
she asked insinuatingly.

Philip declared that he could not think of
putting the lady to so much trouble. Only let
her oblige him with Signor Filippo Cavestri's
address, and he would himself undertake the
rest. This proposition did not at all meet the
views of Signora Bonera, who pointed out that it
would be a great deal easier for her than for her
interlocutor to compose an Italian letter ; but
Philip said he had no doubt he should be able to
make himself intelligible with the help of a
dictionary. Thereupon a long and lively debate
ensued ; but in the end Philip carried his point,
and escaped without having given his name.
He promised to call again before long, at the
same time throwing out some pacifying hints as
to a possible change in the fortunes of the
Cavestri family, and so made his way out into

the air and sunshine again, not ill pleased, upon
the whole, with the result of his afternoon's
work. It would have been more convenient,
and probably less expensive, to have had to deal
with one person than with a whole family, and
be could have wished that his cousin had been a
rather more presentable individual ; still, he
reflected, it might have been worse. These
people were evidently too poor to be very
troublesome, and it was a far cry from 
to Florence. Taking everything into
consideration, he was inclined to put down the
whole Cavestri clan at an annual expenditure ol
from three to four hundred pounds ; and really
they would be cheap at the money, if they could
supply him with the information that he wanted.
When he returned to his hotel the sun,
sloping towards the west, was flooding the Lung
Arno with mellow light, and illumining, among
other persons and things, a very smart landau,
which was waiting at the door. Philip was indulging
in a moment's idle curiosity as to who
the owner of this showy equipage might be,
when the porter hurried out, cap in hand, to
hold open the door. Then came the swish of
voluminous skirts ; a shrill exclamation rang
through Philip's head, and immediately both his
hands were being grasped in the tightly-gloved
ones of Signora Tommasini.

Yoii, of all people in the world ! ' she exclaimed.
' Well, I am glad I I had really begun
to think I was never to see yon again.'

Xor your 5,000/. either,' thought Philip.
And simultaneously it occurred to him that, if
he should indeed prove to be the heir of Long-bourne,
this and other debts might be discharged
within no very long space of time. This enabled
him to welcome Signora Tommasini with
less of mental reserve than he might otherwise
have done.

You can't be more glad than I am he
answered. ' You are more surprised, I daresay,
because I fully expected to meet you here,
and have been looking forward to doing so for a
long time.'

Have you? I don't believe you a bit ; but
it is polite of you to say that. Why have you
never written to me? Are you staying in this
hotel? Are you really going to study here?'
v»-ent on the Signora, asking questions with her
usual volubility, and pausing for no answers.
Come for a drive with me. I am o-oino- to the
Casting, where it is delicious at this hour, and
vrhere you will meet all the world. I am singing
at the Opera here, you knew, and am received
tant Men que mal. But I don't like these
Florentines ; they are very different from my
good English public. They are cold ; they are
VOL. ir, T

critical ; they make no allowance for a poor old
woman with a cracked voice, who is doing her
best to please them. Ah, well, every dog has
his day. The Florentines would adore you ;
they love a handsome face as much as a sweet
voice. You ought to make your devil here.
But I suppose old Steinberger would object to
that. Not that you would ever be able to make
yourself heard beyond such an orchestra. The
public taste is becoming ruined in Italy, as it is
everywhere else. In old days they loved singing
; now they only care for noise. I was singing
in Bon Carlos last night, and they insisted
on having the march three times, the idiots!
All that is rather a help to old stagers, like
myself, who don't mind a hubbub which covers
deficiencies ; but it would be fatal to you.
Where have you been since you left London?
Down in the country all this time ? I thought
you hated the country. Give an account of yourself
and of all that you have been doing.'

I will, if you'll let me get in a word,'
answered Philip, laughing.

He had been seated in the landau beside
Signora Tommasini long before this, and they
were within the gates of th Casting by the
time that she had ceased speaking. The carriage
had fallen into a line of others, which were
proceeding at a snail's pace along the shady

drive, meeting a stream of returning vehicles,
some shabby, some resplendent, all, or nearly-all,
badly horsed. Many hats were raised and
many hands waved to the popular emma donna,
who acknowledged these street ino^s with a bow
from her waist to the ladies, a bob of her head
for the men, and a broad, good-humoured smile
for everybody. Her time was so taken up with
receiving and returning salutations that she
could pay but little attention to her companion,
and at last ordered the coachman to drive on to
a more secluded part of the gardens.

It is impossible to talk or to listen in this
crowd,' said she ; 'and I want to talk to you,
or rather to hear you talk.' And when the
fashionable world of Florence had been left
behind, the Signora proposed that they should
get out of the carriage and walk a little way.
I am obliged to take some exercise every day
to keep down my fat,' she said, with a laugh.
^ I haven't succeeded very well, you'll say ; but
then there's no telling; how much worse I miaiit
have been if I had been lazy. Now, what has
brought you here? Wasn't it rather a sudden
resolution ? '

I always talked, you know, of coming to
Italy for a time,' answered Philip ; ' and i't so
happens that I have reasons for wishing to be in
Florence just now, besides the desire to take a

T 2

few lessons and to enjoy the pleasure of your
society.'

At that moment he felt a strong; impulse to
be candid with Signora Tommasini. Philip,
like many other persons who habitually distrust
their kind, was subject to irresistible leanings-towards
confidence in the case of certain individuals,
and particularly of such as he thought
likely to prove of service to him. Signora
Tommasini was emphatically one of these. He
knew that her affection for him was sincere ; he
had found her also to be a shrewder woman than
was generally supposed, and he had a notion
that shrewdness might be a very necessary
quality in dealings with the Cavestri family.
Added to this, he was naturally anxious to let
the Signora know that there was so fur a
probability of her 5,000/. being handed back to
her before she was much older. Such being
his state of mind, it may well be supposed that
within the space of about half an hour • the
Signora knew all that there was to know about
her friend's parentage and adoption, and about
the flattering tale which Hope and Mrs. Prosser
had whispered in his ear. She would have
been in possession of the facts a great deal
sooner if she had not interrupted the beginning
of the recital by many queries and ejaculations,
and if she had not stopped Philip to scold him

roundly for five minutes when he aUucled to the
prospect of his being able soon to refund the
-advance which she had so kindly made to him.
But after that she became more and more grave
and silent, and her final comment upon what
she had heard was the unexpected one of ' Well,
it is a great pity.'

PhiHp looked at her. looked up at the sky,
looked around him at the trees on either side of
the shady alley along which they were pacing,
and, spreading out his hands with a gesture of
patient expostuLation. addressed himself to space.
Xow, did you ever — I ask you, did you ever —
hear anything like that ? I have seen something
of women ; I have lived amongst them more
than most men do, and I flattered myself that I
understood the queer nature of them to some
extent ; but after this I give the subject up, it
beats me altogether. Oh. it's Bala and Balaam
over again, you know. I bring her out here to
congratulate me, and behold, she puts on a long
face, and says it's a pity ! Xow, I should like
to know why it is a pity. In what possible way
can it be a pity ? '

It seems to me,' answered the Signora,
that it is a pity in every way. The story will
turn out to be true, I'm afraid ; and I tell you
frankly that I'm very sorry for it. I had had
great hopes of you. With labour and patience I

do believe that you would have become a famous
singer some day ; and I am quite certain that
the life of a famous singer would have been the
one above all others to make you happy. You
will not be happy at all as a country gentleman
with a limited income, and you will go to the
bad, most likely, for want of something to do
and somebody to look after you. More than
that, I think it is a pity — we are friends, you
know, and you mustn't be angry if I speak my
mind — I think it is a pity that you should be
turning the lady who has been the making of
you out of house and home.'

Philip was not easily offended ; but this
outspoken censure touched him in a sore place,
and the blood mounted to his forehead as he
answered, ' That is a very unfair way of putting
it. It is true that Mrs. Stanniforth may have to
leave Longbourne ; but is that any fault of
mine? She won't be a penny the poorer, remember,
and all that she will lose will be the
house. And let me tell you that, if you knew
her, you would be aware that she is the very
last person in the world to grudge me a piece of
good fortune.'

Then why didn't you tell her what you
were coming here for ? '

What would have been the use of troubling
her, Ashen I knew nothing for certain? Besides,

I promised Prosser that I wouldn't say a word
to any one.'

I don't care a snap for that malignant old
hag of a housekeeper ; and you don't care a snap
for your promise. You have broken it already
in telling me ; break it again, and write to Mrs.
Stanniforth by to-night's mail.'

My dear Signora Tommasini, I have the
most sincere respect for your opinion ; but I do
think I may be the best judge of what ought to
be my conduct towards Mrs. Stanniforth.'

Well may you say that you don't understand
women ! ' cried the Signora with some
impatience. ' Oh, you foolish fellow ! can't you
understand such a simple thing as this? — that
Mrs. Stanniforth would forgive you for turning
her out of her home, or even for taking her
purse out of her pocket ; but that she will never
quite forgive you for deceiving her. You have
made a very stupid mistake as it is ; but you
may undo it partly, if you write by to-night's
post and explain everything. She will think
you found writing more easy than speaking :
many people do. Come along back to the
carriage ; we haven't a minute to lose.'

And this energetic lady caught Philip by the
arm, and hurried him away, paying no heed to
his protests.

You are quite wrong,' he said. ' She'll tell

lier mother, and then there'll be the deuce to
pay. And a pretty fool I shall look if the whole
thing turns out a myth.'

Stuff and nonsense ! ' returned the Signora ;
she won't tell anybody ; and if she does, it is
better to look like a fool than like something
else. Don't you play fast and loose with your
best friends. You can't afford it, I tell you.'

All the way back to Florence the Signora
lectured and Philip argued; but the end of it
was that he did write the letter, as he was bid,
and posted it at the same time with one addressed
to Signor Cavestri at Bologna.

CHAPTER Xxii.

LETTERS AND TELEGRAMS.

The Post Office, as brought to its present state
of efficiency, is doubtless one of the glories of
the age and an institution for which everybody
ought to be thankful. That the facilities for
speedy communication afforded by it give us
all an immensity of needless worry is, however,
indisputable ; and this chapter will show how a
mighty pother was brought about among one set
of insignificant people by the postal machinery
during the space of a single short week.

Possibly things might have fallen out differently
but for the accident of Philip's having
chosen to leave Longbourne for Italy on a
Monday ; which was the day invariably set
apart by Mrs. Stanniforth for the despatch of
that weekly budget to Shorncliffe which has
been already more than once referred to. For
several past Mondays Margaret had contrived,
with no small difficulty, to keep her own counsel
upon the subject which chiefly engrossed her

thoughts ; for she had felt certain that Hugh
would consider the engagement between Philip
and nellie an imprudent one. and would say
so ; and she had heard this said so many times
already that it seemed almost better to hold her
peace altogether than to expose herself to a
repetition of it from a fresh quarter. But on
this especial Monday, when all the agitation of
leave-taking was still upon her, it was inevitable
that she should write about Philip, and scarcely
less inevitable that, in writing about him, she
should tell the whole truth. This was the conclusion
to which she came, after tearing up three
abortive attempts at mystery. Either she must
disburden her soul, or Hugh must do without
his letter. Her own inclinations and regard for
the feelings of her friend alike urged her to
adopt the former alternative ; and accordingly
she did adopt it — with a result which will have
been foreseen by readers with good memories.

On the Wednesday morning Mrs. Winning-ton,
sitting opposite to her daughter at . the
breakfast-table, and receiving a pat of butter in
her tea, instead of a lump of sugar, formed the
not unnatural conclusion that some news of a
disquieting nature had reached the mistress of
the house.

Dearest Margaret,' said she, when the above
trifling; mistake had been mentioned and rectified.

' I trust you have not had any unpleasant
letters.'

Nearly all letters are unpleasant,' answered
Margaret, with a tremble in her voice and a
very unsuccessful imitation of a laugh. She
added something incoherent about business
letters and begging letters, and laid down the
one which she had been perusing.

But as soon as her mother, who had a fine
healthy appetite, had ceased to scrutinise her,
she picked it up again and finished it, her face
growing paler and paler, as she read.

My DEAR Margaret,' (Hugh wrote),
^ I can't tell you how astonished and grieved I
was to hear by your letter of this morning that
Marescalchi had engaged himself to Miss Brune.
It is such a bad business that I hardly know
how to tell you v/hat is the real state of the
case ; and yet it is certain that you must be
told. I wash with all my heart that I had not
been such a fool as to conceal what I have
known for the last three months ; but I acted,
as I thought, for the best, never doubting but
that the young fellow would confess it all to
you himself, sooner or later. Latterly, indeed.
I have fancied, from your never saying anything
about him in your letters, that he had done so.

It is useless to try and break these things
gently : the miserable truth is that he is married

already. Unfortunately, there is no room for
the shadow of a doubt as to the fact. You may
remember that you wrote to me in January last,
asking me to go up to London and see ,
who, you feared, was in some trouble ;
and it was then that I discovered that he was
living in Conduit Street with his wife, to whom
he must have been some time married, as there
was a baby. I happened to see the whole three
of them entering the house, and I am bound to
say the young woman appeared to he a modest,
respectable sort of person, though certainly nota
lady. I hesitated to speak to Marescalchi at
the time, as perhaps I ought to have done ; and
when I was next able to call, I heard from the
landlady of the lodgings that he and Mrs.
Marescalchi were in great distress, owing to
the sudden death of the child ; so that it was
really impossible for me to intrude upon him.
Had I bad the smallest idea that he could be
such a scoundrel as he evidently is, I should not
have been so scrupulous. I need not say how
much I have felt for you all this time ; and I
may add that I have also wasted some good pity
upon him. Poor little Miss Brune ! this is a
sad beginning for her life.

If I can be of any help to you in any way,
you know that you can command me. I could
get leave, if necessary, and a journey to Italy

would be quite within my power. I dread to
seem interfering and officious ; but there are
emergencies in which a strong arm is a useful
thing, and there are persons who understand no
other argument.

I am writing in some haste ; and, besides
that, I thought you would rather I said what I
had to say as briefly as possible ; but, of course,
if you wish it, I can give you fidler particulars.
For the present I will only add that, if you can
think of any way in which I can serve you, and
will tell me of it, you will confer a true kindness
upon

'Your affectionate friend,

Hugh Kenyon.'

There were certain passages in this letter
which were scarcely judicious, and the whole
composition was pervaded b}'^ a subdued ^ ?'
flavour which Margaret would
certainly have noticed and resented, had its
subject-matter been less appalling. As it was,
she could only repeat to herself, * This is not
true. I can't believe it. Huoii must have made
some mistake.' But there was very little comfort
to be got out of telling herself that she couldn't
believe it, when lie knew all the time that she
could, and did. She read the letter over again,
and was unable to discover any loophole for

escape. There was no getting over the landlady's
allusion to ' Mrs. Marescalchi ; ' nor was it
conceivable that Philip should have allowed any
woman to pass as his wife, unless he had been
really married to her. Margaret did not ask
herself whether it was conceivable that Philip
should contemplate bigamy. She had not yet
had time to weigh probabilities, and was so
stunned and bewildered that, if Mrs. Winnington
had chosen to question her further, the whole
story must infallibly have come out in the
course of a few minutes.

It chanced, however, that Mrs. Winnington's
mind was engaged with other matters at the
moment. Mrs. Winnington had been reading
letters of her own — letters from London — letters
in which mention was made of balls and dinners
and State concerts, and all the other unvarying
incidents of that life for which her soul yearned.
Mrs. Winnington had tasted these delights many
a time and often, and for her assuredly there
could be no new thing under the dim London
sun ; but, as she was very far from desiring
anything new, such philosophical reflections were
powerless to console her, and it was with a profound
and pathetic sigh that she restored her
letters to their envelopes. Margaret did not
appear to notice this signal of distress ; so Mrs.
Winnino^ton sighed more loudly, and, again

failing to attract attention, rose, walked to the
other end of the table, and placing her hands
affectionately on her daughter's shoulders,
kissed her on the forehead.

• Dearest Margaret,' said she, ' you are looking
very pale. Don't you think you ought to
have a little change ? '

Oh, no,' answered Margaret, hastily ; * I
am perfectly well, and I hate going away from
home. Longbourne suits me better than any
other place in the world.'

My dear, are you sure of that ? Constitutions
differ, certainly ; but I cannot help
thinking it very unlikely that a place which
invariably makes me ill after three weeks can
agree with you all the year round.'

But it really does,' answered Margaret,
with provoking obtuseness.

Mrs. Winnington moved to the window, and
looked out upon the terrace, where her younger
daughter was to be seen walking up and down
in the sunshine. ' Poor Edith ! ' she murmured
; ' I do feel so very sorry for her, poor
child ! '

'Sorry for Edith?' repeated Margaret, absently.
' Why should you be sorry for her ? '

• Oh, my dear,' cried Mrs. Winnington, with
some asperity, ' you are not the only person in
the world who is to be pitied. Other people

have their troubles too ; and naturally, at
Edith's age, it seems hard to be buried down in
the country, when all her friends are enjoying
themselves in town.'

This direct appeal proved effectual. Margaret
roused herself, got up, and joined her mother at
the window. ' How selfish of me never to have
thought of that ! ' she exclaimed penitently. ' Of
course she ought to be in London, and so ought
sou. Do take her there at once ; you must not
hesitate about leaving me.'

But Mrs. Winnington shook her head. ^ Xo,'
said she decisively ; ' I determined, once for all,
last year, that I never would spend another
season in London lodgings. To begin with, it
is more than I can afford.'

But, mother '

Dearest Margaret, you are always so kind ;
and I know you would gladly help us out with
our rent ; but rent is really the least thing.
There are carriages, and dresses, and flowers,
and a hundred other necessaries, which would
swallow up the whole of my wa-etched little
income in a few months. Besides which, living
in lodgings is objectionable in every way. I
felt it so very strongly last year, and 1 made up
my mind that 1 would never do it again. If
one wishes to hold up one's head in society at
all, one must entertain. It need not be upon a

large scale, and it need not cost much ; but
there is just the feeling, you know, that one can
have a few people to dinner sometimes, and that
one has a decent house to receive ones visitors
in. I have thought very often lately that I have
acted rather unfairly to Edith in remaining
unsettled, year after year, as I have done. It
is so difficult to see one's duty plainly! I
believe now that what I ought to have done
would have been to establish myself in a
small house at the far end of Belgrade Road, or
some other cheap place. It would have been
very nasty ; but it would have given her an
opportunity of sometimes catching glimpses of
civilisation. There is no help for it now, though.
To hire a house in London for the season would
be out of the question ; and to lodgings I will
not go. As I said to Lady Laura Smythe the
other day, going into society in that sort of way
is almost like living upon the charity of others
- — a think; I could never consent to do.'

If margaret did not answer immediately, it
was because she was half afraid that it was not
in her power to make the only answer that could
be considered at all to the point. That a childless
woman, with fifteen thousand a year and
the simplest of personal tastes, should ever be in
want of money may sound somewhat incredible ;
but it is said by those who ought to know that
VOL. ir. u

there are people Tvith twice Mrs. Stanniforth's

means who are not unacquainted with the pinch

of poverty. However that may be., it is certain

that Margaret was not, in the true sense of the

word. rich. From various causes, which need

not be entered into now, she was seldom able to

keep a large balance at her bankers", and it lias

been sho^'ni before what excellent reasons she

had for desiring to lay by a certain sum every

wear. Still, she felt that, if she remained long

silent, her mother's delicate scruples would be

aroused, and poor Edith would get no London

season. Therefore she only hesitated a moment

before declaring cheerfully that the London

house ought to be her affair, and that she world

£nve instructions alx)Ut securing one forthwith.

Sirs. Winnington could not hear of such a
thins. Xo ! she knew too well how many
people had claims — if you could call tht-ni
claims — upon poor dear Margaret, and what it
cost to provide young men with unlimited
travelling-expenses and the best singing-masters
in Italy. No ! if dear margaret lead wished to
take a house in London for herself, that would
have been another thing : but sirs. Winning-ton
could not accept, and would not accept,
even from her own daughter — and so forth, and
so forth, for ten minutes, without a break. In
the course of these ten minutes it did, indeed,

transpire that there was a small house m Park
Street, belonging to a particular friend of Lady
Laura Smythe's, which was now to be had ;
but the rent asked for it was quite too ridiculous
which was a pity, as the situation and the very
modest dimensions of the house might have
made it suitable in other ways. ' But,' added
Mrs. Winnington, ' no doubt it will be snapped
up at once. Lady Laura asked me to let her
have a reply by return of post. So absurd of
her! As if I could possibly afford such an
expense ! But I never can get people to understand
that your purse is not mine.'

The remainder of the argument need scarcely
be chronicled. Of course Margaret protested
that all that was hers was her mother's, and oi
course Mrs. Winnington pointed out that, however
justifiable such a theory might be upon
abstract grounds, it was impossible to make it
fit in with the conditions of a sophisticated state
of society. The generous dispute was a prolonged
one ; but it was not so unduly prolonged
as to prevent Mrs. Winnington from dashing offa
few hasty fines to Lady Laura Smythe in time
to catch the midday post.

Margaret breathed more freely as soon as
this question was disposed of. In the impending
catastrophe her mother's sympathies would not,
as she well knew, be with her ; and it would be

V 2

best for lier to be alone when the terrible disclosure
had to be made. It should not be
made before an answer should have come from
Philip : she had now so far recovered her scattered
wits as to have decided upon that much.
She would write to him, enclosing Hugh's letter,
and she would not condemn him until he should
have had an opportunity of giving his version
of the story. Who knew but that he
might be able to exculpate himself? Even a
prisoner who has been caught in the act of
entering; a dwellings-house by the area-window
at midnight is held innocent until he has been
proved guilty ; and was she not to extend the
same measure of bare justice to poor Philip ?
She had already begun to think of him as ' poor
Philip,' it will be observed. Perhaps in his case,
as in that of the supposititious burglar, it was
upon the absence of ' felonious intent ' that she
built her vain hopes.

But, as the day went on, it became more and
more apparent to her that she could never live
through the long interval of suspense that must
take place before a reply could be received from
Florence. This, she calculated, could not, at
earliest, be before the fifth day ; and to exist ina
state of torment through four mortal days
and nights was an ordeal not to be faced, if by
any means it could be avoided. She longed to

telegraph, but could not see her way to doing
so, consistently with prudence ; for Longbourne
was not one of the houses where telegrams perceived
and despatched so frequently as to give
rise to no remark ; and, besides that, it would be
impossible to frame a message which should beat
once intelligible to Philip and unintelligible
to the clerks at the Crayminster post-office. It
was while pondering the latter difficulty that
Margaret thought of a very simple expedient for
overcoming it. Why should she not word her
telegram in a foreign language? The notion
pleased her so much, and her desire to be put
speedily out of her pain was so strong, that she
resolved, at last, to run the risk ; and in the
course of the afternoon she set out to walk across
the fields to Crayminster, and to write the momentous
question with her own hand. She did
not care to let the servants know that she vv^as
in such haste to communicate with Mr. ,
and she would not drive, for she knew
that if she did so her mother would accompany
her.

The young gentleman who snatched Mrs.
Stanniforth's telegraph-form out of her hand —
(is it because postmen always have the gratuities
of Christmas before their mind's eye, while postoffice
clerks have nothing connected with that
season to look forward to, except an increase of

labour, that the former are so subservient and
the latter so outrageously offensive in their
demeanour towards the public?) — this young
gentleman was as satisfactorily puzzled as could
have been wished. Margaret had written distinctly
the following words in German, having
had doubts as to the trustworthiness of French
in this age of universal accomplishment : ' Is it
the case that you are not free to marry ? Pray
telegraph the exact truth. Hugh has been in
Conduit Street.' This message, after much
preliminary frowning and muttering, was
accepted and paid for ; and when Margaret had
asked three times at what hour it would be delivered,
and had been answered at last bv a
curt, ' Can't say, 'm shaw,' she started on her
homeward way.

It was a long up-hill walk, and the sun was
hot and scorching, as it often is in the month of
May. Margaret, weary in body and mind, had
lost all thinking power, and, fortunately for herself,
was unable to suffer in anticipation of a
terrible future. Her one anxiety, then and
throughout the remainder of the day, was that
the reply to her telegram should reach her after
her mother and sister had gone to bed. It
would have puzzled her to give any account
afterwards of the manner in which she had got
through that interminable afternoon and evening.

But somehow or other the time passed ;
and Fortune was very kind to her ; for hardly
had Mrs. Winnington and Edith wished her
good-night, and gone upstairs, than a ring at
the front door brought her heart into her mouth ;
and a minute later the wished-for yellow envelope
was in her hands.

She tore it open, devoured its contents, and
then, covering her face with her hands, burst
into tears of joy. Philip's answer was brief and
to the point ; and he had not thought it necessary
to employ any language but his own. ' All
right. Free as air. Very natural mistake of
Kenyon's. Will write about this and the other
matter shortly.'

It was very well to be thankful ; but it was
unfortunate, though not perhaps very surprising,
that Margaret's thankfulness should have been
mingled with a strong feeling of wrath against
the luckless Hugh Kenyon. ' How like Hugh
to jump to conclusions in that way ! ' she thought.
^ Hugh would believe anything bad of Philip ;
and he never considers what misery he inflicts
upon me when he makes such cruel accusations.'

This was, no doubt, extremely unjust, since
Colonel Kenyon was about the last man in England
to jump to conclusions, and certainly the
last to inflict needless pain upon those whom he
k)ved ; but that he was ready to believe anything

bad of Philip was true enough, and it was
probably this predisposition which Margaret
found it most hard to forgive. She sat down
forthwith, and scribbled ois a hasty letter, which
would have gone near to breaking Hugh's heart
if he had ever received it. But he never did receive
it ; for his correspondent, after relieving
her feelings by saying some very cutting things,
wisely tore up what she had written, and went
to bed at peace with all mankind, forgiving her
friends as well as her enemies.

It was not until the following morning that
she began to wonder what might be that ' other
matter ' to which Philip had made allusion ; but
it did not occur to her to attach any importance
to the phrase. He might have intended to refer
to his engagement to Nellie, or to his plans for
remaining at Florence — most likely to the former.
Thursday, therefore, was a day of rest and freedom
from care for Margaret ; but upon the
Friday morning she found, beside her plate at
breakfast-time, the letter which had been written
at Signora Tommasini's instance, and which had
been posted before the telegram from Longbourne
had reached its destination. The substance of
this letter astonished and perturbed Margaret a
good deal ; but it by no means filled her with
consternation, as Colonel Kenyon's had done.
Considering the haste with which it had been

written, it was a not unskilfully Avoided epistle.
It was — so Margaret thought — quite unnecessarily
contrite in tone, and it explained to her
full satisfaction Philip's previous silence. It was
both natural and becoming that, upon the first
blush of the thing, he should have held himself
bound by his promise to Prosser, and it was a
proof of his heart's being in the right place that,
after more mature consideration, he should have
found it impossible to keep any secret from herself.
As to the main point, her sympathies and
hopes were entirely upon the side of her adopted
son. Most willingly would she retire from Long-bourne
to let him enter there as master, and most
thankful would she be if the respectability of his
birth could be proved beyond. a doubt. Not
having had time to contemplate possible side-issues,
she Alas inclined to hail the news, so far
as it went, as thoroughly good news.

A letter from Florence ?' asked Mrs. Winnington,
insinuatingly, across the table. ' All
Avell, I hope ? '

Philip has got over his journey safely
answered Margaret, with pardonable equivocation.


So glad ! Xow, dearest Margaret, don't
you think you might come up to London to us
for a time ? We would not keep you a day
longer than you wished to stay ; but I really

believe you would enjoy yourself, when once
you were there.'

What reply Mrs. Stanniforth would have
made to this kindly pressure to partake of her
own hospitality will never be known ; for at
this moment Edith, who had been looking out
of the window, turned round to say that one of
the cows had got into the garden, and was eating
up the roses.

Oil!' exclaimed Margaret, and flew out onto
the terrace, followed by her sister.

An exciting chase, subsequently joined in by
two gardeners, ensued, and lasted for a matter often
minutes, Awhile Mrs. Winnington looked on
from the window with a face of strong disapproval.
It did not accord with her views of
propriety that ladies should rush about and
make themselves hot, when they had a large
staff of retainers handsomely paid to do that for
them. Such behaviour, she thought, lowered
one in the eyes of one's inferiors, and encouraged
them to take liberties. Possibly with a desire to
spare herself the sight of so degrading a spectacle,
she turned away, and began carelessly glancing
at the letters which Margaret had imprudently
left on the table. It has been said before that
Mrs. Winnington's notions with regard to the
sacredness of other people's letters were of a liberal
order ; and she did not for a moment hesitate to

draw these from their envelopes. And so it came
to pass that when margaret returned — flushed
and breathless, but triumphant — she found her
mother extended rioidlyupon her chair, with the
soles of her feet well exposed to view, her head
falling' on to her shoulder, and her arms hanging:
helpless by her sides like those of a rag doll.
What had happened was only too evident : and
Margaret, for once, lost all control over her
indignation.

lineally, mother," she exclaimed, * this is too
bad ! Why do you read my letters ? '

Oh, Alar claret.' answered Mrs. Winnincrton,
in a hollow voice, ' do not — do not speak of such
trifles at a moment like this ! How you can
scamper after cows, when you may be upon the
brink of being turned out of your house, is more
than I can comprehend. This is what one gets
by adopting orphans and pampering them! But
for your infatuation, this wretched boy might
have died years ago.'

• Nonsense, mother I it is not in the least
certain that I shall be turned out of my house ;
and I don't care if I am. You ought not to have
looked at my letter, and you have no business to
kiiovv' anything about this. The least that you
can do now is to behave as if you knew nothing
about it.'

Very well, my dear ; if you think that is a

proper way to speak to your mother, I can say
no more, In my opinion, letters that are left
open upon the table are as much public property
as newspapers ; and I must say I should never
have supposed you wished to conceal anything
from me. Pray do not imagine that I shall interfere
in the matter, directly or indirectly. It
must be sifted, however,' continued Mrs. Winnington,
assuming a more erect attitude. ' The
woman Prosser must be sent for at once, and
made to tell all that she knows.'

I cannot allow it ! ' exclaimed Margaret.
The secret is Philip's, not mine, and it would
be most ungenerous in me to betray him. It
would not do any good either ; for, naturally,
Prosser could tell us no more than she told him.'

It would do this good,' answered Mrs. Winnington,
' that it would set my mind at rest. I
don't believe a word of this story, mind you —
not a word of it ! It might be easy enough for
that woman to deceive a silly, vain boy ; but
she will not find it so easy to deceive me, I can
tell her.'

The issue was inevitable. Mrs. Winning ton
had taken the bit between her teeth, and Margaret
knew full well that argument would be
thrown away upon her. Indeed, the good lady
herself confessed as much. She was not going
to interfere in any way, she said ; but at the

same time she could not blind herself to her
plain duty. She could not sit still and allow a
monstrous fraud to be concocted under her
daughter s roof ; and, in short, if the mountain
would not come to Mahomet, Mahomet must goto
the mountain. In other words, Mrs. Winnington
expressed her intention, in the last
resort, of betaking herself to the housekeeper's
room, and doing battle there.

As a choice of evils, therefore, Mrs. Prosser
was summoned, and probably derived much satisfaction
from the spectacle of her enemy's discomfiture.
Mrs. Prosser, it need hardly be said,
was victorious all along the line. Her evidence
was not to be shaken by the most searching cross-examination
; nor did she allow herself to be moved
for one instant from the placid respectfulness
of her bearing. ]Mrs, Winnington she ignored
altogether, addressing her replies exclusively to
Margaret, and, it must be confessed, producing
a rather favourable impression upon the latter
by her straightforwardness. When pressed to
say why she had not told her story before, she
answered that that was a matter ' betwixt her
and her conscience,' and she must ^ decline for
to enter upon it again.' She had ' already spoke
to Mr. Philip upon the subject.'

It all seems to be the most preposterous
rubbish!' cried Mrs. Winnington, at leno-th.

I don't think, ma'am,' observed Mrs. Prosser
to Margaret, ' as Mr. Neville would wish to goto
law, if Mr. Philip's rights was proved to his
satisfaction ; and I believe there is nobody else
who could do so.'

Of course there could be nobody else
Prosser,' answered Margaret. ' It is a pity, I
think, that you did not speak sooner ; but I quite
believe all that you have told us. It does not
prove anything '

Nothing at all, ma'am.'
• ' Still, it may help us to find out the truth.
You can go now, Prosser. For the present, I
hope you will say no more about this to anyone.'


If you remember, ma'am, my own wishes
was that you should not be told yourself, as long
as 'twas uncertain,' replied Mrs. Prosser, scoring
this final hit as she dropped a curtsey in the
doorway. ' If 'tis known far and wide before
the week is out, 'twill not be through me, ma'am
you may depend.'

CHAPTER Xxi.

CONSULTATIONS.

Mes. Prosser exceeded the limits of justifiable
innuendo when she hinted that the disclosure
which she had made would be known far and
wide in the cf nurse of a week. Mrs. Winnino^ton
was not the woman to publish abroad anything that
might hereafter tell to her own or her daughter's
disadvantage : nor did she at all allude to the
subject when paying a round of calls upon neighbours
whom she could not refuse herself the
pleasure of informing that she had taken a house
in Park Street for the season. But, on the
other hand, she talked of nothing else in the
family circle. She soon made her peace with
Margaret, remembering that something was due
to one who had behaved with so much liberality
in the matter of that Park Street house ; and
although she could not acknowledge that she
had been guilty of any impropriety in reading
Philip's letter, she went so far as to say that she
was sorry for having done so, since Margaret's

feeling, had been hurt thereby. Margaret
willingly accepted this apology, such as it was,
apologised on her side for the hasty expressions
which she had used in the heat of the moment,
and only begged that the whole question might
be suffered to remain in abeyance until further
particulars should be forthcoming.

Mrs. Winnington said no doubt that would
be best ; that was exactly what she herself
would advise ; for what could be the good of
discussing a story which would in all probability
turn out to be false from beo^inninof to end ?
After which, she went on to discuss it in all its
bearings. In all such of its bearings, that is, as
seemed likely to affect her own family ; for it
was with these alone that she troubled herself
OH Mr. Stanniforth would be none the worse
off, whatever might happen ; but Margaret was
in danger of being deprived of her home without
n halfpenny of compensation ; and the truly
grievous part of the business was that she would
have in a manner created her own despoiler, since
it was tolerably certain that Philip would never
have been heard of in Eno;land'but for her ill-judged
charity. The good lady's thoughts were
thus so engrossed that she quite overlooked the
circumstance that the chief sufferer would be Mr.
Brune. who would assuredly be called upon to
refund the purchase-money of an estate which

had never been his to dispose of. When, however,
margaret drew her attention to this aspect
of the affair, she admitted that the poor man's
case was a hard one.

And that.' said she, ' makes me the more
anxious that yon should consult him without
loss of time. In fact, I think it would be
hardly honest to keep him any longer in ignorance
of his danger.'

Margaret said that was not her feelings at
all. She would much rather sav nothing to
Mr. Brune yet.

Well, my dear, if you feel any hesitation
about speaking to him, I should not mind
doing it myself. I do not like Mr. Brune ; his
manners are very uncouth and abrupt, and I
have no doubt he will be rude to me. Still, we
must not consider that. If you can spare me
the carriage this afternoon, I will just drive
over to Broom Leas, and have a few words with
him.'

margaret groaned. ' I thought you ao-reed
with me,' she said, ' that the best thing we could
do was to hold our tongues ? '

Unquestionably the best thing — it is the
only thing that we can do. But that is not to
say that we should neglect any means of gaining
information. Mr. Brune must have known more
about his brother than we can do, and it is quite

VOL. II. X

possible that he may have been aware of the
existence of this Italian lady, and may be able
to tell us who she was. At least it can do no
harm to ask him.'

I think it may do a great deal of harm
Margaret protested.

But she could neither oral her mother nor
lock the door upon her ; and so, in the course
of the afternoon, Mr. Brune, who was enjoying
himself in his shirt-sleeves, lopping off the
straggling branches of a laurel hedge on his
domain with a billhook, was startled by the
apparition of a lady whose visits were never
very welcome to him.

Mrs. Winnington's customary bland smile
of greeting was tempered by a mournfulness
Vv^hich it was impossible to ignore. ' So sorry
to disturb you,' said she ; ' but I was told that
I should find you here, and as I wanted to

speak to you rather particularly ' Here

a natural feeling of curiosity caused her to
break off, and inquire, ' Do you really like doing
that?'

I really do,' answered Mr. Brune, resuming
his coat with some reluctance. ' The only objection
to hedging and ditching is that, when
one is employed in that way, one is scarcely in
trim to receive visitors. Bat I dare say you
will kindly excuse me from shaking hands with

you, Mrs. Winnington. You were saying that
sou wanted particularly to speak to me.'

Yes, indeed ! ' replied Mrs. Winnington.
with a great sigh.

Has Philip Marescalchi broken his neck ?
If he has, don't mind saying so ; I can bear to
hear the worst.'

Mrs. Winnington sighed again. ' Oh, no,'
said she regretfully ; ' he has not broken his
neck. But it is about him that I am anxious
to consult you.'

And then the tale was told, and was listened
to without a word or a sign of interruption.
Mrs. Winnington was a good deal put out by
the calm way in which every one, except herself,
seemed to take the disquieting prospect that was
opening out before them.

Well, Mr. Brune ? ' she said impatiently,
when she had waited for some seconds in van
for her companion to speak.

Well, Mrs. Winnington ? '

What do you think of all this ? Do you
believe that there is any truth in it ? Do you
think your brother was a likely man to make a
clandestine marriage ? '

My dear madam, is it possible for me to
answer such questions to any purpose ? Yes ;
all things considered, I should say it was probably
true. I see no reason why Prosser should have

X 2

invented the words which she says she heard ;
and the dates appear to be correct, and there is
a suggestive similarity between the names of
Brown and Brune. Oh, yes ; the chances are
all in favour of its being true. As to whether
my brother George was a likely man to act ashe
is said to have done, I really can't give an
opinion upon the subject. In one sense nobody
is likely to do such a thing, and, in another
sense, anybody is. One is never surprised at
hearing that a man has been married on the
sly ; bnt I take it that no one has natural proclivities
that way.'

But, dear me ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Winning-ton,
' aren't you going to do anything ? Do you
mean to sit still and allow yourself to be plundered
? Can't you make any inquiries ? '

I shall write to my brother's lawyers, and
ask them whether they know anything. It
appears that Marescalchi's mother was accustomed
to receive remittances from her husband'*
lawyers.'

Hem — yes ; it would be well to do that,
certainly. I feel that we ought to be bestirring
ourselves. It would be a terrible blow to poor
Margaret to be driven from her home.'

I shall be only too happy to talk things
over with ]\lrs. Stanniforth, if that would be
auv comfort to her.'

• Well, the tratli is that dear Margaret rather
shrinks from speaking about the matter at all.
But if you can suggest an}^ way in which /
could be of service '

You are most kind. No ; I don't know
that you can do anything,' replied Mr. Brune,
thinking of Diogenes and Alexander, but patiently
refraining from applying the precedent
to the present case.

A pause of some minutes supervened, during
which Mrs Winnington fidgeted irritably, and
Mr. Brune looked wistfully at his billhook. It
was evident that the man did not choose to be
communicative ; and it only remained for his
visitor to leave him, consoling herself as best
she might with the hope that something — or
rather that nothing — might come of the lawyers'
letter.

This hope was fulfilled some days later,
when Messrs. Hobson & Hobson wrote to say
that, to the best of their belief, their late client
had lived and died a bachelor. They had, at
all events, never transacted business on his behalf
with any Italian lady. So far so good ;
but Mrs. Winnington, as may possibly be remembered,
had a personal acquaintance with
the senior member of the firm, and she could
not resist writing to him in a friendly, informal
manner, to beg for his candid opinion upon this

most distressing subject. His answer made her
rather uncomfortable.

Dear Madam (wrote Mr. Hobson),

We have already been in communication
with Mr. Brune with reference to the matter
upon which you consult me, and I have nothing
to add to the reply sent to him. Speaking
generally, however, I may say that, supposing
such a marriage as you mention to have taken
place, it would in my opinion be in the last
degree improbable that Mr. George Brune, or
any other man similarly situated, would have let
his family lawyers into his secret.
Faithfully yours,

Sail. Hobson.'

And this is the man who has dined with us
over and over again, and has stayed in the house
upon three separate occasions!' cried Mrs.
Winnington, very angry with ]mr. Hobson for
having; written so curtly, and still more an^Tv
with him for having suggested such unpleasant
doubts. ' I will never trouble myself to be civil
to a solicitor again as long as I live.'

In the meantime Margaret had heard once
more from Philip, who filled three pages with a
description of Florence, mentioned incidentally
that he expected soon to have an interview With

his uncle, Signer Cavestri, who was coining from
Bologna to meet him, and said not one word
about the subject of Margaret's telegram until
quite the end of his sheet. ' I meant to have
told you all about that Conduit Street business,'
he wrote; 'but, after all, 1 think it will keep
until we meet. There are some things which it
is just as well not to commit to paper, and one
is not at liberty to tell everything even to one's
best friends. But, my dear old leg, how could
you suppose that, if I had had one wife living,
I should think of marrying another? I am nota
bit angry, you know; but I am rather amused,
I confess, and surprised that you should not
know me better. Colonel Kenyon, no doubt,
thinks me capable of all manner of iniquity.
Even he might have given me credit for some
small amount of prudence, though.' And then
he added in a postscript: 'If you have spoken to
Nellie of wdiat you have heard, and if she feels
at all uneasy or dissatisfied, of course I will
write to her more fully. Otherwise I think least
said soonest mended for the present.'

It was not because this explanation struck
her as insufficient that Margaret wrote a line to
Hugh Kenyon, requesting him to run down fora
day or two and see her. She held — and she
was doubtless right in holding — that it was
worse than useless to bestow confidence by

halves, and that, if she believed Philip at all,
she must believe, without requiring further
elucidation, that he was entirely innocent of the
offence imputed to him. But with Mrs. Winnington
buzzing about her, like a great bluebottle,
at all hours of the day, with Mr. Brune
and Nellie holding aloof as if they were offended,
and with her own uncertainty as to what course
events would take, and what development she
ought to hope for, she did feel a strong wish fora
little sympathy ; and, that being so, it v\^as
natural that she should turn her eyes towards
that quarter whence sympathy had been forthcoming
for so many years.

Hugh, it is needless to say, obeyed the summons
with alacrity. Despite the melancholy
character of the occasion, he arrived in Long-bourne
in better spirits than he had enjoyed for
many months past. Margaret's note had led
him to hope that he was to be reinstated in that
post of confidential adviser which he had forfeited
by his untimely declaration, and which,
notwithstanding many friendly assurances to the
contrary, he was well aware had never been
fully restored to him. She was coming back to
him, he thought ; she had turned to him
instinctively in the time of her trouble ; and,
although he did not now expect that she would
ever consent to be an v thins: more than his

friend, it would be a great deal to be received
again upon the old terms. Without exactly
rejoicing over Philip's downfall, he }'et could
not help feeling that if that young deceiver
were cut off v/ith a shilling — (the traditional
shilling being represented by a few hundreds
a year) — ^liis most dangerous rival would be
removed.

He was therefore not a little taken aback by
the first words that Margaret addressed to him.

Hugh, what made you give me such a
dreadful fright? You were quite mistaken
about my poor boy.'

'Mistaken! how mistaken?'

There was no truth whatever in that —
report about his being married.'

You mean that lie denies it, I suppose.'

Yes. I telegraphed to him at once, and
had an answer the same night, and since then I
have heard from him. He says it was a natural
mistake on your part, but it can all be easily
explained.'

God bless my soul I what explanation does
he give ? '

Margaret was obliged to confess that nothing
very explicit had reached her from Philip beyond
a bare denial; but that, she said, was quite
enough for her. His word was sufficient, and
she could perfectly enter into his reasons for

disliking to put upon paper what might very
well be communicated by word of mouth.
Letters, unfortunately, were sometimes read by
people to whom they vivere not addressed, and
very likely Philip had thought of that. ' It
was wrong of me to distrust him at all,' she
concluded. ' For you, of course, it was different;
but, as he says, I ought to have known him better.'

'Oh! is that all he says?'

You can see his letter, if you like,' answered
Margaret, handing over the sheet in question.
I don't know whether you will find it convincing,
but it is quite so to me.'

Hugh read the short paragraph which has
been quoted above, and drew down the corners
of his mouth. 'It strikes me as a shuffling:
sort of statement,' he remarked. ' It's all very
well to say, " How can you believe that I should
be such a blackguard as to do so and so?" but
that's no answer to a man who saw you do it.'

It is an answer to me, at any rate. And
don't you think, Hugh, that you were rather ina
hurry to take things for granted? You never
made any inquiries, you know.'

But, my dear Margaret, I had the evidence
of my own senses. I saw the woman enter the
house with him. I called in Conduit Street
afterwards, and found that they were living
there as husband and wife. I heard the landlady

speak of her as Mrs. Marescalchi. What
more would you have ? '

Oh, I admit that it is mysterious,' said
Margaret ; ' but what of that ? So many thiuo^s
are mysterious until they are explained. Might
it not have been to serve a friend in some way
that he allowed that woman to pass as his wife
for a time? I think that is conceivable.'

I don't," said Hugh, shortly.

And you don't believe him on his word ? '

Hugh looked up uneasily. * There is no one
on earth whom I trust more implicitly than I
do you,' he said ; ' but if you were to tell me
that your name was not Margaret Stanniforth,
and that you didn't think it necessary to say
any more at present, but wotild explain it all
some day or other, how could I bring myself to
believe that you were speaking the truth?'

Ah, well.' said Margaret. ' women have more
faith than men. I suppose. I should believe you
if you told me black was white. But never
mind. I am as certain as I am of my own
existence that Philip will be able to clear himself
all in good time ; and we won't say anymore
about it now, especially as I hav something
else to tell you, which I have been thinking
of a great deal more during the last few
days.'

Colonel Kenyon's astonishment was only

equalled by his disgust when he was informed
of the fresh complication of which Philip 
was the central figure. ' Confound that
fellow I ' he exclaimed ; ' I wish to heaven his
mother had scrao^o-ed him when he was a baby !
He seems bound to bring perpetual trouble in
one way or another. And the provoking part
of it is that you don't mind it a bit. I believe
you rather enjoy it.'

This little outburst of impatience had the
happy effect of making Margaret laugh. Upon
which Hugh laughed too ; and thus friendly
relations, which for a moment had shown
symptoms of becoming strained, were reestablished.


Now tell me,' said Margaret ; ' do you
think Philip is really Mr. George Brune's son?'

Hugh was compelled to acknowledge that
the story had a horrid air of probability about
it. ' To tell you the truth,' he added, ' I noticed
his likeness to the family long ago ; but I set it
down to mere coincidence.'

Yes ; is it not strange that I should never
have remarked it ? I see it so plainly' now ; and
not only that, but I can trace a decided resemblance
between his character and Mr.
Brune's.'

There I can't go along with you.'

That is because you like Mr. Brune. and

you have never liked my poor Philip. But
perhaps it is not so much a similarity in actual
character that I mean, as in ways of speaking
and looking at things. I know exactly what
Mr. Brune will say in certain cases, and it is
just what Philip says, and often in the very
same words. Both of them have a way of pretending
to laugh at everything, and both of
them are really as tender-hearted as women.
I wish you knew Philip as well as I do. You
can't think what a penitent letter he wrote me
about this journey of his to Florence, and how
grieved he is at the idea of my having to give
up Longbourne. As if it was any fault of his
that he is his father's son ! '

Well, I am glad to hear that he is penitent
said Hugh, getting up, and walking about the
room. ' As for your leaving Longbourne, I
don't know about that, I'm sure. It will be a
case for the lawyers, I fear.'

Why should it be ? If once it can be
proved that Count Marescalchi and Mr. George
Brune were one and the same person, there can
be no more to be said. I am sure Mr. Brune
would not go to law with Philip.'

• Perhaps not ; but it's rather an intricate
question. You see, old Mr. Stanniforth made
a gift of the estate to Jack, and the title-deeds
are now in the hands of the trustees. ] know

no more of law than I do of Hebrew ; but I
suppose we could not surrender them at all
events until the purchase-money had been
refunded.'

But then there is the compensation paid by
the railway company.'

Yes ; but I don't know whether old Tannin
would disgorge that without making a
fight for it. He is a sharp old fellow — or used
to be. It is a most unmitigated nuisance, look
at it which way you will.'

'- It will all come right in the end,' said
Margaret, confidently.

I am not at all so sure of that. I would
much rather it went wrong in the beginning, I
know. I wonder, now, Whether there is any
hope of that old Prosser's having trumped up a
plausible story to serve some ends of her own.
It is difficult to believe that a woman could keep
a secret like that entirely to herself for a dozen
years and more.'

She had the safety valve of confession to her
parish priest, you see.'

'What, to old Langley? Do you mean to
say he has known this all along, and never said
a word ? '

^ I suppose he has. He has not been here
since the disclosure, and I suspect he is rather
afraid of facing us.'

Well he may be, the old Jesuit ! I shall
look him up this afternoon, and hear what he
has to say for himself.'

You won't be rude to him, will you, Hugh?
You must remember that he has only done
what he would consider to be his bounden duty
in keeping Prosser's secret.'

Oh, I won't be rude to him,' answered
Hugh : ' I only want to find out how much he
knows. I suppose he'll tell me the truth anyhow.'


The result of this determination was that
Colonel Kenyon formed one of a congregation of
three at evensong, and, ^^'aiting for the rector
afterwards, put the reverend gentleman, as he
mentally expressed it, ' through his facings.'

Yes, yes,' Mr. Langley said ; ' an importunate
affair in many ways ; but let us hope
that some arrangement may be come to. I am
glad the woman has at length made up her mind
to tell what she knew. I have been uroino^ her
to do so for years past.'

Eut why didn't you make her speak out ?
Couldn't you have withheld absolution, or something?'


Mr. Langley smiled. ' I think you hardly
understand the case,' he said. • There could be
no question of absolution, the woman ha vino-committed
no sin. What she revealed to me

was in the nature of a strictly confidential communication,
made to me as her priest.'

She said it was under seal of confession.'

Ah, yes ; a slight confusion of terms not
uncommon among the uneducated. It is true
that she first divulged the matter to me as a part
of her confession ; but I pointed out to her at the
time that she was wrong in doing so. Of course
I could not do otherwise than regard what wa«i
imparted to me in such a manner as sacred.
Since then I have lost no opportunity of impressing
upon her what I believed to be her
duty ; but she is, unfortunately, a very obstinate
person. I should not have felt myself
justified in laying a positive command upon her
so long as she held it a matter of conscience to
keep silence.'

Well, I don't know,' said Hugh, twirling
his moustache; 'I should have thought you
might have brought a little more pressure to
bear ; but it's not much use talking about that
now. You believe, then, that old Brune really
said all that ? '

I have not a doubt of it ; and I may add
that I have vers little doubt as to young 's
bench: the son.'

It's a horrid bore,' remarked Hugh. ' I
expect I shall have a lot of bother over it ; and
I'm afraid our friends at Broom Leas vsdll suffer.'

And he went on to explain some of the difficulties
which he anticipated, and which were
likely to interfere with the amicable family
arrangement to which Mr. Langley, as well as
Mrs. Prosser, appeared to have looked forward.

Mr. Langley could only express his sympathy
and regret, adding, as a moral to be deduced
from the whole affair, that if the late Mr. Brune
had been a sound Churchman, all this trouble
would have been avoided. ' In such a case, he
would have sent to me upon his death-bed —
which I am sorry to say that he did not think
lit to do — and the truth would have been
revealed.'

What, even if he had made it the subject of
a strictly confidential communication ? ' Hugh
could not help saying.

Unquestionably. Concealment of marriage,
and the leaving of a child destitute, Avould be
deadly sin ; whereas it might very well be a
question with many people how far they were
entitled to make public words spoken by one ina
state of delirium. But perhaps I had better
not weary you with definitions,' said Mr. Langley,
rather coldly. ' I trust,' he added, ' that
there is no feeling of soreness as regards me in
my dear friend Mrs. Stanniforth's mind.'

Oh, she'll forgive you,' said Hugh ; ' she'd
forgive anybody for doing anything.' And as

VOL. II. Y

he walked away, it occurred to him that there
was only one person in the world towards whom
he had ever known Margaret to display an unforgiving
spirit, and that that person was himself.
Which seemed a little hard.

Trudging pensively homewards along the
deep lanes, he heard himself, on a sudden, called
by name, and was presently overtaken by Nellie
Brime — a person whom, under the circumstances,
he would much rather not have encountered.

Have you come down about this business,
Colonel Kenyon ?' she asked. ' Is it really true
that Philip is Uncle George's son ? '

Ah, that's just what 1 want to know, Miss
Brune,' answered Hugh. ' If I were not afraid
of making you angry, I should say I hope he
isn't.'

Oh, but I hope the same thing,' said Nellie,
quickly.

Why, I thought the great wish of your life
was that Longbourne should come back into the
possession of your family.'

'But I don't want Mrs. Stanniforth to be
turned adrift. And, besides, I could never feel
as if Philip were one of us.'

You ought not to have much difficulty in
feeling that,' said Hugh, looking at her kindly.
His honest heart was so full of pity for the poor
girl that he hardly knew how to speak to her

without betraying himself. He could not doubt
that Philip was a married man, and he had
already formed an indefinite resolution that he
would prove him to be so, and thus at least save
Miss Brune from the danger of an irreparable
calamity. But what in the world was he to say
to the girl now ? '

She allowed his allusion to pass, and asked :
^ Do you suppose that Philip knew of this before
he went to Florence ? '

Of course he did ; it was the old housekeeper
who told him, you know. In fact, I
imagine that he only went to Florence in order
to get at documentary proof of Mr. Brune's
marriage.'

Nellie tightened her lips, and nodded. 'I
suspected as much,' said she.

^ Ah, you're beginning to find the young
rascal out,' thought Hugh, with some satisfaction.
But, feeling* that the devil ouo^ht to
have his due, he said aloud : ' I am not sure
that you can exactly blame him, you know,
for not saying anything about it before he
started. It seems that he did write without loss
of time.'

He need not have said what was untrue,
though. He told us all that he was ofoino; there

O c> c>

to study.'

Well, perhaps he is going to study.'

Y 2

Yes ; I dare say he is,' agreed Nellie,
hastily, thinking perhaps that she had said too
much. ' Will you give my best love to Mrs.
Stanniforth, please ? '

Certainly I will,' answered Hugh ; ' but
why don't you come up and see her? She
thinks you are offended with her about this
unlucky business.'

Oh, no ! ' exclaimed Nellie ; ' what possible
reason could I have for being offended with her ?

I have kept away lately because — because

It is rather difficult to explain ; only don't you
know how disagreeable it is to talk over things
with people when you don't quite agree with
them, and when they — think you ought to agree
with them? '

And, having given utterance to this somewhat
vague sentiment. Miss Brune took her
leave rather hurriedly.

I wonder whether she really cares for that
worthless fellow,' mused Hugh, resuming his
walk. ' I don't believe she does ; and I'm sure
I hope she doesn't. It was Margaret who got
up the match, I suspect. What a pity it is that
she will insist upon making people happy in her
own way, whether they wish it or not ! '

And, as soon as he reached the house, he
delivered Nellie's message, adding carelessly on
his own account : ' She doesn't seem to pine for

her absent lover to anv alarming; extent. Is she
very much in love with him, do you think ? '

More so than you might suppose,' answered
Margaret, smiling. ' Nellie shows her feelings
very little ; but I understand her, and I know
that she has never cared a pin's head for any one
but Philip. It is a very long-standing attachment
on both sides ; but want of money has
prevented matters from coming to a climax. I
am so very glad that the engagement took place
while Philip was still a poor man ; I think they
will both be glad to remember that afterwards.'

But even if he o'ets Long-bourne, he will bea
poor man.'

He will be well enough off to marry, I
suppose ; and then, I hope I may be able to
help them out a little.'

To this Hugh made no answer, except to
shake his head gravely ; and as Mrs. Winning-ton
came in at that moment, eager to hear
whether anything fresh had been elicited from
Mr. Langley, the subject dropped.

He had no further opportunity for private
conversation with Margaret that day. The
whole evening was occupied by an amicable
contest between her and her mother with reference
to the latter lady's move to London ; Mrs.
Winnington protesting that she could not bear
to leave her daughter in the midst of so much

trouble, while Margaret declared that she was
in no trouble at all, and that it would distress
her beyond everything to deprive Edith of her
season. Hugh, knowing what the outcome of
the discussion was certain to be, took little
interest in its progress, but sat silently twirling
his thumbs and heartily wishing that Mrs.
Winnington were in London already. Every
now and again he was appealed to — ' Candidly
now, Hugh, do you think dear Margaret ought
to be left quite alone ? ' and so forth. He
answered somewhat at random ; which was of
the less consequence since his answers were
never listened to. Edith remained as silent ashe
throughout, and was to all appearance quite
as indifferent. Once, when, just by way of saying;
something, he asked her whether she was
not looking forward to having a great deal of
dancing, she replied that she never danced in
London, and volunteered the additional information
that she hated London at all times, and
particularly during the season. Whereupon
Mrs. Winnington glanced sharply over her
shoulder, exclaiming, ' Edith, my dear child,
how can you talk such nonsense ! ' and Edith at
once collapsed.

It was close upon midnight before Mrs.
Winnington acknowledged herself vanquished,
and laid down her arms. ' If you put it in that

way, my dear Hugh heard her saying, ' I
suppose I ought not to refuse ; but I shall be
longing to be with you all the time ; and I do
trust that you will write or telegraph for me at
any moment, if you want me. Unless you
promise me that, I positively will not go. You
see,' she continued, turning to Hugh with a
deprecatory smile, ^ how weak I am. I had
fully determined to give up all thought of
London for the present ; but dear Margaret
makes such a point of our going that I feel I
should have to yield tomorrow, if I did not do
so to-day. I am quite ashamed of myself ; for
I must confess that a few hours ago, I should
have said that nothing could shake my resolution.'


As, however, she left at ten o'clock on the
following morning, it must be assumed that her
maid was endowed with the gift of prophecy,
and had packed up in anticipation of the event.
Her last words to Hugh, as she stepped into the
carriage, were : ' Well, good-bye, dear Hugh.
If you should be coming up to London, you
must be sure to call on us in Park Street. I
hope you understand that I should not be going
away now if I thought I could be of any use
here. But I really do not believe I could.'

^ Not the slightest use in the world,' answered
Hugh, whose stock of patience, large as it was,

had not been quite equal to the demand made
upon it by the needless waste of his only evening
at Longbourne. His duties compelled him
to return to Shorncliffe the same afternoon ; and
it was a little mortifying to him to perceive that
Maro^aret was rather relieved than otherwise
when she was told that he, too, must leave her.

He attributed this to his unfortunate inability
to sympathise with her upon the subject that
was nearest her heart ; but it was probably quite
as much due to a sensation of embarrassment on
her part at finding herself alone in the house
with him. It had been comparatively easy to
bury the past in oblivion when writing to him,
or when other people were at hand; but now
that they two were face to face, and free from
all chance of interruption, she found it impossible
to keep a certain day in the past
summer out of her memory ; and what was
worse, she saw that he was labouring under
precisely the same difficulty. Besides which, he
had a patient, half reproachful way of looking at
her which made her shy and uncomfortable ;
and this, in its turn, made her angry. There
was something ridiculous, she thought, in a
woman of her age being subject to such girlish
afflictions ; and, after the manner of women, she
visited her anger in some degree upon its
innocent cause.

Upon the whole, Hugh felt, as he drove
away, that his visit had not been a success ; and
the same reflection was at the same moment
passing through Margaret's mind, while she
stood on the doorstep watching the departure of
her truest.

EN13 OF THE Second VOLUME.

LOSEC;." : PRINTED BY

iPOTTIS.VOOLiE ASD CO., New-street 5v"-^3^

AXD PAKUAiiKST STREET

Fc/>. Svo. Limp Cloth.

By the Sisters Bronze.
2s. 6d. each.

JANE EYRE. By Charlotte Bronze.

SHIRLEY. Bv Charlotte Krontc.

VILLETTE. By Charlotte Bronze.

THE TENANT OF Windfall HALL. By Anne Bronze.

WUTHERING HEIGHTS. By Emily Bronte. AGNES GREY. By Anne Bronte.

^Vith Preface and Memoir of the Sisters, by Charlotte Bronte.
THE PROFESSOR. By Charlotte Bronte. To which are added the Poems of

Charlotte, Emily', and Anne Bronte.

By Mrs. GASKELL.

2J. 6d. each.

RUTH. I MARY BARTON

Sylvia's LOVERS. NORTH AND SOUTH.

WIVES AVD DAUGHTERS I LIFE OF Charlotte Bronze.

MY LADY LUDLOW, a.nu other Tales included in ' ROUND THE SOFA.'

By LEIGH HUNT.

2s. 6d. each.

IMAGINATION AND FANCY : or, Selections from the English Poets.

THE TOWN : Its Memorable Characters and Events. Illustrated.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF LEIGH HUNT.

MEN, WOMEN, AND BOOKS; a Selection of Sketches, Essays, and Critical

Memoirs.
WIT AND HUMOUR: Selected from the English Poets.
A JAR OF HONEY FROM MOUNT HYBLA ; or, Sweets from Sicily in Particular,

and Pastoral Poetry' in General.
TABLE TALK. To which are added IMAGINARY CONVERSATIONS OF

POPE AND SWIFT.

Uniform with the above 2s, 6d. each.

THE SMALL HOUSE AT Arlington. By Anthony Trollope.

THE Clavering. By Anthony Trollope.

Pray LEY PARSONAGE. By Anthony Trollope.

ROMOLA. By George Eliot.

BELOW THE SURFACE. By Sir A. H. Elton, Bart.

TRANSFORMATION. By Nathaniel Hawthorne.

DEERBROOK. By Harriet Martineau.

HOUSEHOLD EDUCATION. By Harriet Martineau.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF LUTFULLAH.

LECTURES ON THE ENGLISH Humorist OF THE EIGHTEENTH

CENTURY. By W. M. Thackeray.
THE FOUR GEORGES. With Illustrations by the Author. By W. M. Thackeray
PAUL THE POPE AND PAUL THE FRIAR. By T. A. Trollope.
THE Rose-garden. Bv the Author of 'Unawares.'
CHRONICLES OF DUSTYPORE. A Tale of Modem Anglo-Indian Society. By

the Author of ' Wheat and Tares.'
IN THE SILVER AGE. By Holme Lee.

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

Pictorial Covers, price Two Shillings each.

By WILKIE COLLINS.

NO NAME. AFTER DARK. Armadale**

The above nay also be tad in Limp Cloth, price "zs. 6d. each.

By the Author of
'JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.'
ROMANTIC TALES. | DOMESTIC STORIES.

By HOLME LEE.

AGAINST WIND AND TIDE. | BASIL GODFREY'S CAPRICE.

lame gRiNDE^''^''^''^^^- ^^'^^^^ ^^^^0'^'

wl^ANI^^v'^OOF. I COUNTRY STORIES.

Annie Harleigh's FORTUNES. ! KATHERINE'S TRIAL.
THE WORTLEBANK DIARY. MR. WYNYARD's WARD.

THE BEAUTIFUL MISS BARRINGTON.

By Captain GRONOW.

RECOLLECTIONS AND ANECDOTES OF THE CAMP, THE COURT, AND

THE CLUBS.
ANECDOTES OF CELEBRITIES OF LONDON AND PARIS. To which are

added LAST RECOLLECTIONS OF THE CAMP, THE COURT, AND

THE CLUBS.

Uniform with the above.

GRASP YOUR NETTLE. By E. Lynn Linton.

AGNES OF SORRENTO. By Mrs. H. B. Stowe.

TALES OF THE COLONIES: or, Adventures of an Emigrant. By C. Rowcroft.

Latina. By the Author of ' Dr. Antonio ' and ' Lorenzo Benoni.'

THE MOORS AND THE FENS. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

HESTER KIRTON. By Katharine S. Macquoid.

BY The SEA. By Katharine S. Macquoid.

THE HOTEL DU PETIT ST. Than. ^

VERA. Bv the Author of ' The Hotel du Petit St. Jean.' *

IN THAT' STATE OF LIFE. Bv Hamilton Aide'.

MORALS AND MYSTERIES. By Hamilton Aide'.

MR. AND MRS. FAULCONBRIDGE. By Hamilton Aide'.

SIX MONTHS HENCE. Bv the Author of ' Behind the Veii.'&c.

THE STORY OF THE PLEBISCITE. By MM. Erckmann-Chatrian.

THE CONSCRIPT and WATERLOO. By MM. Erckmann-Chatrian. In one

volume.
GABRIEL DENVER. Bv Over Maddox Brown.
TAKE CARE WHOM YOU TRUST. By Compton Reade.
PEARL AND EMERALD. Bv R. E. Francisco.
Seule. By the Author of ' the Hotel du Petit St. Jean.'
PENRUDDOCKE. By Hamilton Aide.
A GARDEN OF WOMEN. By Sarah Tatler.
BRIGADIER FREDERIC. By MM. Erckmann-Chatrian.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

3 0112 052949291

QiQiQisisiaitaiiaiiais

Nfo KewThij^g

4 4 4

^/foviA^s -f 3 S S.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/nonewthing03norr

BY

W. E. Nobis

AUTHOR OF 'MATRIMONY' 'MADEMOISELLE DE MERSAC ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[All rights reserved]

CONTENTS

THE Tried VOLUME.

Chapter Page

XXVI. PHILIP FINDS OUT ALL ABOUT IT . 1

XXVII. WALTER GOES TO A BALL 30

XXVIII. TOM STANNIFORTH FINDS HIS MATCH . . . 52

XXIX. ' PECCAVI ! ' 74

XXX. A FIASCO 103

XXXI. TOM STANNIFORTH GIVES SOME TROUBLE . . 124

XXXII. PHILIP BEFORE THE PUBLIC . . . . 147

xxxiii. Walter's hash is settled . . . . 166

XXXIV. MRS. STANNIFORTH CAN'T CONTROL HER NERVES 189

XXXV. HONOURS DIVIDED 209

XXXVI. REWARDS AND PUNISHMENTS . . . . 229

XXXVII. YES AND NO 253

XXXVIII. AT Cordillera 271

XXXIX. LAST WORDS V . .286

CHAPTER XX VI.

PHILIP FINDS OUT ALL ABOUT IT.

Thanks to the stood offices of Signora Commas
Philip found Florence a very delightful
place of residence. There, as in all other European
cities to which her avocations led her from
time to time, the Signora had a large acquaintance,
and there, as elsewhere, she led a merry and a
busy life. She only sang three times a week,
and on the alternate nights she either received
her friends in an easy, informal manner, or, with
that strange hankering after the familiar scene
which is common to all who make their livelihood
upon the stage, she went to the Opera, and
listened to the performances of her colleagues.
Either method of passing the time was equally
agreeable to Philip, who loved society in any
shape, and was greatly pleased with the reception
accorded to him by the incongruous assent

III. B

blame of young Italian nobles and actors and
professors of music, and wandering Englishmen
who frequented the Signora's ever-open salons,
or jostled one another in her dingy little box at
the theatre. His voice was extravagantly praised ;
and, as he was generally understood to be a
wealthy amateur, the manager of the Opera and
others felt no hesitation in assuring him that he
was capable of outshining Mario. He did not,
of course, take any steps for securing the
services of the professors who were so civil to
him. Under existing circumstances, it did not
seem likely that he would ever be called upon
to spend weary hours in practising scales again,
and the delight of absolute idleness, which had
always been very dear to him, was doubly so in
the land which is proverbially the best fitted for
its enjoyment.

One or two disagreeable emotions prevented
his happiness, during the ten days which intervened
between his arrival and that of Signor
Cavestri, from being quite complete. Margaret's
telegram gave him a shock and an uneasy afternoon.
The brief episode of his married life had
dropped so far back into the mists of memory
that he had long since ceased to think of it as a
possible source of trouble, and it may be supposed
that his feelings towards Hugh Kenyon, when
he heard of that officious person's behaviour, were

not of the most charitable kind. Again, he could
not shake off a haunting dread of what Margaret
might say or do upon hearing the true nature of
his business in Italy, and if he could have recalled
his confession five minutes after he had committed
it to the charge of the post office, it is
certain that he would have done so. But in due
time a very kind and affectionate letter from
Longbourne set his mind at ease upon both of
these points ; and he had the justice to thank
Signora Tommasini for the good advice that she
had given him. ' I shall always come to you in
future when I am in any difficulty,' said he ; and
she answered, ' Upon my word, I think you might
apply to a worse person.'

In writing to Signor Cavestri Philip had
found it unavoidable to acknowledge his identity,
and from this it resulted that, as he was
breakfasting one morning, the Signora Bonera
rushed into his room like a whirlwind, enveloped
him in a highly perfumed embrace, kissed him
on both cheeks, and reproached him shrilly for
having concealed the fact of their relationship.
Signora Bonera, when arrayed in her best clothes,
was not a cousin to be received enthusiastically
by persons of fastidious tastes. Her hair, which
was liberally oiled, was arranged in a towering
curly mass above her forehead ; upon the top of
this was perched a yellow bonnet adorned with

B 2

large red roses ; she wore a silk gown of a
tartan quite unknown to the highlands of Scotland
; and she diffused for many yards around
her person an odour of patchouli powerful enough
to have sickened a fox.

Her heart, she said, had spoken the moment
that Philip had entered her door. She had felt
that this was no stranger. She had experienced

an irresistible impulse Here she started to

her feet, and Philip, fearing lest the impulse
might be coming on again, rose hastily, and
placed the table between himself and his visitor,
as a measure of precaution.

My dear Signora Bonera ' he began.

Don't say Signora Bonera; say Lucia.'

4 Well, my dear and warm-hearted Lucia,
let me implore you not to give way to impulse.
You must remember that I am an Englishman,
and in England we do not give way to impulse;
we dislike it very much. Perhaps } 7 ou would
not mind my mentioning another of our peculiarities.
We never kiss our cousins.'

Is it possible ? '

1 Xever, I assure you. In fact, we consider
it quite a scandalous thing to do. We are not,'
continued Philip, speaking slowly, and watching
the effect of his words upon the lady, ' we are
not in any way a demonstrative people. When
we like our cousins very much, we do not

embrace them, but we endeavour to improve their
circumstances.'

Signora Bonera nodded, as though to imply
that that form of acknowledging the ties of consanguinity
struck her favourably.

1 But then,' Philip went on, { our cousins must
not be troublesome or intrusive people. Indeed,
such is our eccentricity that, in a general way,
the less we see of them, the more likely we are
to be liberal towards them. I myself have been
thinking that if I should succeed in establishing
my claim to the Brune estate — a very poor estate
you will be sorry to hear — it would be one of my
proudest privileges to increase your annual income,
my dear Lucia. After what I have said,
you will understand that I could only do so
subject to the restriction I have hinted at. In
point of fact, if I ever saw or heard of you again,
I am afraid you would lose your allowance.
Xow, what should you say to 2,500 lire a year?'

Signora Bonera, who had shown no signs of
taking offence at this plain-spoken offer, shrugged
her shoulders, spread out her hands, and made
a hideous face. Philip rightly interpreted this
pantomime to mean that the sum was paltry, but
that she would accept it, if she could not get
more.

1 Lucia,' said he, l [ fear that you are greedy.
And that is a pity, because it lessens my interest

in you. You see, there really is no reason at all
why I should increase your income.'

4 When one is ashamed of one's relations, one
must pay to get rid of them,' remarked Signora
Bonera, quite good-humouredly.

1 Just so ; but as you will not come to
England, and as I can very well exist without
visiting Florence again, I can virtually get rid
of you gratis. There is the post, you will say
Well, I offer you 2,500 lire a year not to write
me letters ; and I consider that a very fair price.
Think it over, my dear Lucia, and I am sure
you will consider it so too.'

Philip would hardly have dared to be so impertinent
if he had not seen by the woman's
manner that impertinence was not likely to
affront her. She answered him by another
shrug and another grimace, and then held out
her hand to him frankly.

It shall be a bargain,' said she ; ' only you
must say nothing about it to lo zio, or '

Or he will want it all for himself. Do not
alarm yourself, he shall be kept in ignorance.
And, by the way, when is that estimable uncle
going to make his appearance? He has already
kept me waiting a week.'

4 Eh ! he is an old man ; and what was the
hurry ? I had a letter from him this morning,
saying that we might expect him tomorrow. I

was going to ask you to come in the evening and
meet him ; but since you are so proud '

I assure you I am not in the least proud,
and I shall be delighted to spend the evening
with you some other time ; but perhaps lo zio
and I could hold our first conference more comfortably
if he would do me the honour to dine
with me here tomorrow.'

1 As you please,' answered the accommodating
Lucia. And when she was gone Philip began
to think that she had got her promise of a
hundred a year upon tolerably easy terms. ' I
would have promised her more, though, if she
had stuck out for it he said to himself laughing;
c I shouldn't much care about introducing
these noble Italian relatives to Nellie. What
will the old man be like, I wonder? I hope he
won't kiss me.'

But when Signor Cavestri was announced,
the next evening, Philip perceived at once that
there was no fear of his doing anything of that
kind. He was a dapper, consequential little
gentleman, with grey hair, a dyed moustache,
carefully-brushed threadbare clothes, and a
snuff-box. He paused at the door, drew himself
up to his full height of five-foot-six, and
bowed. Then he advanced a few steps, and
bowed again. Finally he held out his hand ina
somewhat patronising manner, and said it gave

him infinite pleasure to find himself in the presence
of his sister's son. He was so dignified, so
affable, and declined with such inexorable suavity
to speak a word upon matters of business until
he should have eaten his dinner, that Philip was
charmed with him, and thought to himself that,
if this relative wanted to be pensioned off, he was
playing his cards unskilfully.

'He would pass muster anywhere. "My
uncle, the Marchese Cavestri" — it sounds very
well, and I don't know why he shouldn't be a
marchese ; he looks like one, and he is pompous
enough to be a grand-duke. I daresay he manufactures
Bologna sausages though, when heat
home.' Philip, to whom any new type of
humanity was a godsend, was so well entertained,
during dinner, by studying his uncle, drawing
him out, and taking mental notes of his peculiarities,
that he felt no impatience to begin
questioning him upon the subject which he had
been brought thither to discuss, and it was
Signor Cavestri himself who first introduced it.

1 You wish, as I understand,' said he, 'to
have a proof of the legitimacy of your birth. It
gives me much satisfaction to be in a position to
furnish you with that proof. In my presence,
on the 25th of April, 1853, Signor Bruno was
married to my sister, the late Lucia Cavestri, at
the church of Sant' Onofrio, in the city of

Florence.' And, having delivered himself of
this announcement with the air of one who
challenged contradiction, Signor Cavestri crossed
his legs, threw back his head and took snuff.

You said Signor Bruno, I think,' observed
Philip, his heart beating a little more quickly.

Signor Bruno ; or, as you would say in
English, Meestare Braoun. He afterwards, as
you are aware, assumed the title of Count
Marescalchi.'

4 The difference of Bruno and Brown is of
some importance. I presume there is a register
kept at the church.'

4 At Sant' Onofrio? Certainly there is; and
with your permission we will examine it together
tomorrow morning. Sincerely rejoiced shall
I be, my dear nephew, if I can be the means of
restoring to you your family estates. That I
have a disinterested wish for your welfare I
have, I think, already shown,' continued Signor
Cavestri, grandiloquently. l I resigned you —
not without a pang, believe me — to that wealthy
English lady whose name is so extraordinary a
one that I will not attempt to grapple with it —
I resigned you, I say, to her, feeling that I was
best consulting your happiness in so doing. My
own means, alas ! suffice barely to provide me
with the necessaries of life; and for myself,
when I am powerless to offer assistance, I withdraw

— I do not intrude upon those whom I
cannot serve. Thus I saw but little of your
lamented mother during the last years of her
life; and for the same reason I have refrained
from even writing to inform myself of your
health and prosperity throughout this long
period of separation.'

He did not mention that he and his brother
had received handsome sums of money from
Margaret in acknowledgment of their written
promise that they would at no future time
attempt to exercise control over their nephew's
education or liberty.

Philip said he fully appreciated this delicacy,
and Signor Cavestri resumed: 'It is at the cost
of some personal sacrifice that I am here at this
moment; but it is painful to speak of such
matters. Poverty is an evil to be borne with
fortitude. To conceal it is impossible; to parade
it is unworthy.'

'Shall I?' thought Philip, 'or shan't I?
Really, I think I will.' He produced a banknote,
and began hesitatingly: ' It should be a
matter of course that any expenses incurred on
my behalf — I hope you will allow me to '

In another moment the note was in Signor
Cavestri's pocket.

The old gentleman took it with an air of
such kind condescension that Philip could not

help thanking him. ' I am sure I am very much
indebted to you '

1 My dear nephew, do not distress me by
mentioning it. I am entirely at your orders.
Early tomorrow morning I will give the
necessary notice, and at eleven o'clock the
register of Sant' Onofrio shall be ready for your
inspection.'

Shortly after this Signor Cavestri retired,
wishing his entertainer good-night with a
happily-blended mixture of respect and avuncular
affection. The next morning, punctually
at the appointed hour, he reappeared; and
after a short drive, which seemed rather a
long one to Philip, the pair were admitted into
the sacristy of the church of Sant' Onofrio
by a black-browed priest, who was awaiting
them.

All at once it flashed across Philip that he
had reached the crowning and decisive moment
of his life. In one word of the open volume
there on the old oak table lay all his future,
inexorably predestined and waiting for him.
4 Either I am somebody, or I am less than
nobody ' he thought. ' I am a Brune, or I am
only a doubtful sort of a Brown. I am to have
a fresh start and a fair fortune, or I am to drop
back into the old life of obscurity and drudgery
and debt, and to be laughed at for having made

a fool of myself into the bargain. Two wretched
little letters of the alphabet to settle it all, one
way or the other ! ' He positively did not dare
to look; his heart stood still. The dim sacristy,
with its old carved oak presses, the vault-like
chill of the air, the faint, musty smell of dust
and stale incense, the old man and the priest
gazing at him curiously — all these, for one
bewildering instant, seemed part of a nightmare
which he would have given the world to be able
to shake off.

Then he held his breath and looked — and
broke out into an irrepressible exclamation of
joy. There, on the page before him, in a large,
distinct handwriting, was the signature of
George Brune,' surmounting that of 4 Lucia
Cavestri.' ' And it's all right, by Jupiter ! '
shouted Philip, unable to control himself; c and
I can pay every penny I owe, and Meg shall live
with me, if she will, and the stage may go to
the devil ! Hurrah ! " The gates are passed,
and Heaven is won! " '

The priest, who naturally had not understood
a word of this excited declamation, looked
slightly scandalised, and crossed himself, while
Signor Cavestri took snuff, and laughed a short,
dry laugh.

c Allow me, my dear nephew,' said he, ' to
congratulate you in advance upon coming into

your fortune, and myself upon having been the
humble means of leading you towards it.'

Philip shook hands warmly with the old
gentleman ; he shook hands also with the priest;
he emptied his pockets of all the money that
was in them, and poured it into the various
boxes which the church contained, so that the
poor of the parish received an unusually large
donation that week, and his Holiness the Pope
benefited to the extent of five napoleons in the
form of Peter's pence.

Eh, eh ! ' exclaimed Signor Cavestri, who
had watched this prodigality with raised eyebrows;
'it seems, then, that your estate is a
large one, my nephew

No; it is not large,' answered Philip, laughing
a little at himself. ' I shall not be a rich
man. I suppose that, strictly speaking, arrears
will be due to me; but I should never think of
claiming them.'

Signor Cavestri smiled half benevolently,
half compassionately. ' Such generous sentiments
do you immense credit,' said he ; ' but
justice, we must remember, is justice. Might I
venture to suggest that the half only of these
arrears should be claimed ? '

4 You don't understand,' replied Philip.
4 Mr. Neville Brune is a great friend of mine — a
very particular friend. It would be out of the

question for me to make such a demand upon
him. Besides, he couldn't pay.'

'Ah!' said Signor Cavestri, with an expressive
dropping of his head and hoist of his
shoulders.

1 And now,' Philip resumed, ' let us take a
copy of this entry in the register, and be off.
I must write to England immediately.'

He took leave of his uncle at the church
door, and hurried back to his hotel, treading
upon air. He had never known how r much he
bad desired this thing until it had come into his
possession. He had never known what a weight
those five thousand pounds that he owed to
Signora Tommasini had been upon his mind until
he saw a near prospect of his being able to
return them to her. For he had never dared
to think much about it before, and, as we know,
he had a remarkable power of putting away
from him all reflections that were disturbing to
his peace.

Dearest Meg,' he wrote, ' I have been to
the church of Sant' Onofrio, and there it is in
black and white — " George Brune " and " Lucia
Cavestri." I know you will give me joy. You
don't need me to tell you that Longbourne will
be your home as long as ever you like to make
it so, and I am quite sure that Nellie will say
the same. Isn't it just like the end of a fairy-tale

? — Longbourne in the hands of the old
family again ; you with all your dreams about
to be fulfilled ; nobody a penny the worse (for
of course I shall not let Mr. Brune suffer any
loss, beyond what can't be helped) ; and your
unworthy correspondent an independent man !
I can hardly believe it all, and have to keep
looking at the copy of the register which lies
beside me to convince myself that I am awake.
Xow that it is all over, I may tell you in strict
confidence that I never half liked the idea of
exhibiting myself upon the stage ; and you, I
know, always hated it. However, all's well
that ends well,' &c, &c.

It is perhaps hardly necessary to quote the
letter at full length. Philip scribbled on for
the best part of an hour, and, with a thrill of
pleasure and exultation, signed himself, for the
first time, ' Philip Brune.'

On returning from her drive that afternoon,
Signora Tommasini found Mr. Marescalchi extended
upon one of the armchairs in her gaudy
salon ; and as soon as she saw his face, ' Ah ! '
she cried, c I know what is the news you have
brought me.'

I have brought you good news,' said
Philip. ' At least, I hope you will think it so.'

You know I do not think it so,' returned
the Signora, pettishly ; ' I am disappointed and

disgusted, and I don't mind telling you as much.
I wish that meddling old housekeeper had been
hung before she did all this mischief! Don't
expect any congratulations from me ; I never
was more sorry for anything in my life. Your
career is spoilt, and I have lost my friend.'

Do you know, I am not so certain that I
had a career to spoil ? and as for your friend,
since you are good enough to call me your
friend, I promise you that you will never lose
him, if you care to keep him.'

You couldn't very well say less than that ;
but it doesn't alter the fact, unfortunately. Will
you ask me to go and stay with you at Long-bourne
? I should like to see you attempt such
a thing ! No ; the day will come when you will
think that you have done a great deal if you
shake hands with me after a concert. I know
what English society is. I might be invited to
stay with dukes and duchesses, and grandees of
that sort ; but to a house such as yours will be
never in the world ! The people amongst
whom you are going to live never heard of the
Tommasini ; or, if they did, it was only as a
woman who sings at the Opera, a person whom
they would rank a little above their upper
servants, and decidedly below the village doctor.
You would not be allowed to know me, if you
wished it ; but you will not wish it. You will

always be what those about you are : and yon
will become a caricature of a country squire,
whereas you might have been a famous singer.
It is a thousand pities. Well, what are you
going to do next ? '

4 1 suppose.' said Philip, smiling. • that the
next things for me to do will be to go back to
England, bearing my sheaves with me. 1

• Your sheaves ? You haven't got your
sheaves yet ; and I shouldn't wonder if yon
had to wait some little time before you did get
them. I don't know what Mr. Brune and Mrs.
Stanniforth and the rest of them may be inclined
to do ; but it strikes me that, if I were in possessions
of a nice property, you wouldn't get me
to drop a curtsey and hand it over to you In-flourishing
the copy of a register before my
eyes. I wonder, by the way. whether there
could be any hope of that precious old uncle
of yours having played tricks with the
register ? '

How disagreeable you are ! ' exclaimed
Philip, laughing outright. ; My venerable uncle
may be capable of committing forgery — indeed,
I should not imagine him to be the man to stick
at a trifle — but no one but an Englishman ever
wrote that " George Brune." Besides which,
the ink was quite faded, and there was no trace
of an erasure. Melancholy as it may be, I am
vol. in. c

afraid there is no disputing the genuineness of
the entry.'

1 You will have to prove it, though, and a
good deal more besides, I suspect, before you
can enter upon your inheritance. Were I in
your place, I should go and see the English
Consul, and ask him what is the proper course
to pursue. If you ask me my candid opinion,
I should say you were in for a long lawsuit.'

The Signora was so put out that she would
predict nothing but unpleasant things ; and
although her prophecies were evidently inspired
rather by annoyance than conviction, Philip's
exuberant spirits were a little damped by what
she said, and he willingly left her when she
exclaimed, after looking at her watch, that she
had only just time to dress.

Are you coming to hear me sing to-night ? 7
she called after him, as he was leaving the room ;
and Philip answered, ' Yes, of course.' He did
not, however, keep his promise. Upon thinking
things over, he decided that it would be just as
well to follow the Signora's advice, and see the
British Consul before starting for England ; and
accordingly he wrote to that official, stating the
circumstances of his case, and inquiring whether
there were any formalities which might be gone
through while he was on the spot. He would
call on the following afternoon, he added, for

his answer. It took him some little time to
compose this missive, and when he had finished
it and despatched it by a messenger, it was
almost too late to go to the theatre ; so, feeling
an urgent need to talk to somebody about the
subject which was uppermost in his mind, he
strolled off to the Via San Giorgio, and spent
the remainder of the evening with his relatives
there.

They, at all events, did not discourage him.
Signora Bonera was amiable and respectful, her
husband was subserviency itself, and Signor
Cavestri beguiled the time by relating anecdotes
of the late Mr. Brune, whose oddity appeared to
have been equalled only by his arrogance, and
who, as the old gentleman very candidly admitted,
had never allowed his wife's relations
to come near him after his marriage.

Once,' said he, ' I was in the neighbourhood
of Naples, and I thought I would go and
see my sister, who was living at that time in
the villa that her husband had purchased there.
I have never been one of those heroes who adore
danger for its own sake ; so I refrained from
entering the house. But I had not been five
minutes in the garden when out came Signor
Bruno, and caught me. "What the devil do
you want here ? " says he ; and before I could
answer a word, he had gripped me by the

c 2

collar, and was pushing me before him towards
the gate. " Now, let me see your ugly face
here again," he called out, " and " — I give you
his very words, I assure you — " and I will
break every bone in your skin ! " He would
have done it, too ; for though he was a small
man, he had the strength of a horse and the
temper of a fiend. Eh ! die animate ! Pardon
me, my dear nephew, for speaking so of your
father ; but you will allow that I had provocation.'


You shall not be treated in that way when
you come to see me at Longbourne,' said Philip.

But Signor Cavestri declared that he was
much too old to think of leaving Italy now ; and
so the evening passed away pleasantly enough.

The foreign custom of making a light breakfast
off coffee and rolls immediately after rising
was a very congenial one to Philip's tastes. By
means of it, and of taking a long time overdressing,
he managed to dawdle away the
morning with little more exertion than if it had
been a part of the night. At half-past twelve
he partook of a more solid repast, which occupied
him agreeably for another hour and a half ; and
so, towards three o'clock, he strolled leisurely
away to the Consulate.

He was at once shown into the presence of
Her Britannic Majesty's representative, who

looked up from his writing, and said : ' Oh,
Mr. — er ! — Brune ? '

Philip bowed.

1 1 have been looking through the papers
relating to the year 1853. and I am sorry to
say that I can find no record of the marriage
which you mention in your note.'

I have already got a copy of the marriage
certificate answered Philip, holding out the
document in question. i The marriage took
place at the church of Sant' Onofrio, in the
month of April.'

1 Oh, that.' said the Consul, tossing the
paper carelessly on one side — ; that is of no use
whatever.'

How do you mean, of no use ? ' asked
Philip, rather startled.

Why, a marriage of that kind is no
marriage at all, legally speaking. Of course, I
don't say that the parties may not have acted in
perfect good faith : I know nothing about that,
but in the eyes of the law such a ceremony
could not make them man and wife.'

'But, my good sir, they were married in
church.'

- Exactly so. They were married in church,
when they ought to have been married at the
Consulate or the Embassy. This is by no
means the first case of the kind that has come

under my notice. It seems hard, no doubt,
that such a severe penalty should attach to
ignorance ; but if people will not take the
trouble to inform themselves of the law, they
must suffer for it ; and the law is that, when a
British subject wishes to be married abroad, he
must be married under the British flag.'

Philip dropped into the nearest chair, and
sat speechless. He could hardly believe in the
possibility of such a grievous stroke of bad luck
as this having befallen him. It would not have
surprised him to have learnt that his father had
gone through a mock marriage, or that he had
never been married at all ; but that the man
should have intended to act fairly, and should
have failed to do so through mere carelessness
and stupidity, was simply heartrending.

Perhaps,' he said at last, c they may have
been married at the Consulate before or after
the religious ceremony took place.'

1 Yes ; I thought of that, and I have already
made a thorough search. I am sorry to tell
you that no person of the name of Brune has
ever been married here.'

1 Well, I shall not give it up.' said Philip,
rising, and addressing his informant as defiantly
as if that obliging gentleman had been a personal
enemy. ' If they were not married here
they may have been married somewhere else ;

and I suppose time and place are not of much
importance.'

Well, no. A marriage contracted within
a certain period of time would serve your
purpose, no doubt. Of course you are aware
that subsequent marriage does not legitimise
children born out of wedlock.'

With that parting word of caution ringing
in his ears, Philip stumbled down the staircase
and out into the sunny street. The game was
not up, he kept repeating to himself, as he made
his way back to the Lung' Arno ; there was
Naples, and there was Rome, and there were
many other places to be visited before he would
abandon all hope. In the sequel he did institute
investigations in all these cities ; and, indeed,
he has not yet given up a habit of searching the
archives of any Consulate within reach of which
he may happen to find himself ; but never, to
this day, has any record been discovered of a
marriage between George Brune and Lucia
Cavestri.

Probably, if Philip had felt any real hope
at the time, he would not have found it necessary
to buoy himself up with so many inward asseverations
that 'there was no reason to despair.
When he reached the hotel, he shut himself up
in his bedroom, and gave way utterly. It was
too bad — it really was too bad — he thought, to

be shipwrecked in this way within sight of port.
And he had meant to make such an excellent
use of his money, too, and to turn over a new
leaf, and to promote everybody's happiness ! It
was almost a question now whether the human
race deserved that any trouble should be taken
to promote its happiness. A world in which
there could exist such criminals as men who
would not be at the pains of ascertaining whether
they were married or not, and such laws as
to render a bond fide marriage no marriage at all,
was indeed a miserable sort of contrivance to calla
world. ' Good heavens ! how I wish I hadn't
written that idiotic letter to Meg last night ! ' he
exclaimed. ' Of course she will tell everybody ;
and a precious fool I shall look when the truth
comes out! I can see that old harridan of a
Winnington grinning from ear to ear at me.
I won't go back and face them all — hanged
if I will! I'll go and drown myself in the
Arno.'

Instead of adopting that extreme measure,
Philip went downstairs, after a time, and poured
forth his sorrows into the ear of Signora ,
from whom, as might have been expected,
he received but scant commiseration.

1 The very best thing that could possibly
have happened to you ! ' cried the hard-hearted
Signora. ' Sant' Onofrio shall have a pound or

two of the biggest wax candles that money can
buy for this. Xow there is some chance of your
enjoying life and making it enjoyable for others,
instead of being an utterly useless and miserable
member of society, as you were in a fair way
towards becoming.'

i Oh, go on ! ' said Philip ; 'if anybody wants
to kick me, now is his time. I shan't resent it ;
I am far too crushed to resent anything. I
haven't a grain of spirit left in me.'

4 You ought to be ashamed to say so ! ' cried
Signora Tommasini warmly. i Crushed indeed !
Crushed because you turn out to be yourself,
and not somebody else ! — crushed because you
have to make your own way hi the world, instead
of finding it made for you ! — crushed
because your talents will not be wasted, and because
a brilliant career is open to you, in the place
of a wretched, torpid existence among English
rustics ! Don't try to make me believe that you
are such a poor creature as that.'

The Signora strode up and down the room
while she declaimed, and adorned her discourse
with appropriate gesticulation. Even in that
moment of deep dejection, Philip could not help
watching her with some slight amusement.
What scolding powers you possess ! ' said he.
You are a positive virago.'

The Signora went on scolding for some time ;

but very likely she did not mean the half of
what she said, and was only scolding with a
view to rousing her friend from his state of
moral collapse. If so, she was unsuccessful.
Philip sat in a lump on his chair, his arms falling,
his head sunk on his breast, and only smiled
faintly, every now and then, when the speaker
struck a specially dramatic attitude, or indulged
in some particularly lofty flight of eloquence.
Had she known him better, she would have left
him alone, in perfect assurance that another
twenty-four hours or so would see the mercury
of his spirits rising again. She did, however,
know him well enough to be aware that, when
scolding would not do, petting might be employed
with advantage ; and so, after a time, she
changed her tone, sat down beside him, told him
how very sorry she was for his disappointment,
agreed with him that his case was in many respects
a very hard one, and comforted him after
much the same fashion as a nurse comforts a
baby. And then some casual visitors dropped
in ; and in the course of about five minutes
Philip was laughing and talking with them quite
as usual.

From that day forth Signora Tommasini
began to exercise an influence and authority
over him to which he submitted half willingly,
half apprehensively. It was very pleasant, and

saved a deal of trouble, to have things settled
for him, to be told good-humouredly — hut
peremptorily — what he was to do, to be provided
with a singing-master, and with occupations as
well as amusements ; and it was a great blessing
to have a resolute friend, able and willing to deal
with the incensed Cavestri clan in a more or less
summary style ; but Philip had an uncomfortable
and increasing feeling of doubt as to what
might be the true meaning and nature of all this
affection. He was very much afraid indeed that
it was not of a maternal character. Never a
word had he breathed to the Signora of his
engagement to Xellie Brune. He had abstained
from telling her at first because, as he said to
himself, one's women friends never do like to
hear of such things : he kept silence now because
he really dared not speak. Had his circumstances
been other than they were, he might have
laughed at the notion of this fat woman's being
in love with him, and might even — such is the
pitilessness of youth — have amused himself by
leading her on to make herself ridiculous ; but
the thought of the fixe thousand pounds that he
owed her made him feel that this might be no
laughing matter. The memory of that horrid
debt rose up before him in the silent watches of
the night, and caused him to groan in spirit.
There were moments when he felt almost ready

to sacrifice everything — Nellie, Margaret, Long-bourne,
and all the past — to marry the Signora,
and to start afresh in the world under those
novel conditions. He had made an egregious
failure of the old life, and it seemed to him as
if nothing but worse failure was likely to come
of a return to it. It was more in accordance
with his system of philosophy to cast aside
failures than to attempt to convert them into
successes.

But it was only at night that such gloomy
self communing forced themselves upon him.
During the day he was merry enough, and had
little difficulty in ridding himself of dull care.
After his triumphant letter to Margaret, he found
it impossible at once to confess the extent of the
fiasco ; but he wrote to her evasively, saying
that he had been too hasty ; there was a slight
hitch ; the necessary proofs were not so easy to
get at as he had supposed they would be ;
he must exercise a little patience, &c, &c.
And he considered himself justified in so
writing, since he had not yet received answers
from the Consuls at Leghorn, Naples, and
other places, with whom he had put himself incommunication
.

In this state of enjoyment, tempered by
anxiety, Philip spent several weeks, during which
time other persons, who have dropped out of'

sight for so Ions; that it is to be feared that
the reader may have forgotten all about their,
were working out their several destinies under
circumstances which must now be recorded.

CHAPTER XXVII.

WALTER GOES TO A BALL.

It is probable that, for the first few months after
Walter's departure from home, the whole City
of London did not contain a more thoroughly
disconsolate young man than he. He had known
that he would dislike sitting upon a high stool,
that he would find the persons with whom he
would have to associate uncongenial in most
respects ; but the reality far outdid his expectations.
More than once he was sorely tempted to
look back, like Lot's wife ; especially as he was
unable to detect any signs of a Soar in the distance
to compensate him for this toilsome march
through a dreary waste of ciphers. Xot only
did he abominate his work ; but it must be confessed
that he did it badly. He had no head for
figures, and indeed was not quick at acquiring
any fresh branch of knowledge, nor did he receive
the smallest assistance or encouragement
from Mr. Boulger, a surly, burly old man with a
red face, who seldom spoke to his subordinates,

and, when lie did speak to them, did so in such
a manner that they would willingly have dispensed
with the attention.

Bat, if "Walter Brune was not dowered with
a large supply of brains, he possessed no bad
substitute for them in the shape of plenty of perseverance
and a strong will ; and so, in process
of time, he conquered the first difficulties of the
business which he had set himself to learn, and
was rewarded by a grunt or two of approval
from his uncle, who now began to take a little
more notice of him. Every Thursday he was
invited to dine at the large, cold, and uninhabited-looking
house at Clapham where the old banker
had resided for close upon half a century, and
where Walter's young face made an odd contrast
to those of the half-dozen or so of elderly
gentlemen who usually completed the party.
In private life Mr. Boulger was gruff, but not
particularly ungracious. He seemed rather to
like talking to his nephew, and Walter sometimes
had a hope that mention might be made of
him in his wealthy relative's will. As for the
partnership of which he had once spoken so confidently,
that appeared to be very far off indeed.
Mr. Boulder never made the most remote allusion
to the subject, and did not hesitate to give
expression to the poor opinion that he had formed
of his nephew's business capacities.

1 You will never make a banker,' he said ;
c you will never make a man of business at all.
It isn't in you. But it will do you no harm to
work. Slave away, morning and night, summer
and winter — that's what I did at your age, and
you see I am none the worse for it, and a good
deal the richer. I am an old man now — I go with
the century — and never had a day's illness in
my life, sir, that I can recollect. It's your idle
people who grow sickly ; we busy men haven't
the time. Why, I could walk from here to
Lombard Street and back again now, and eat
my dinner all the better for it afterwards.'

It was all very well for Mr. Boulger, who
had been taken into partnership at the age of
thirty, to boast of his health and wealth ; but to
a young man, who had little prospect of the one
to console him for the possible loss of the other,
the career thus described was scarcely fascinating.
Walter, however, was not discouraged. He
could but do his best, he thought to himself ;
and even if nothing came of it at all, hard labour
at least prevented him from brooding over certain
private sorrows of his own that we know of.
Moreover, he was becoming accustomed to the
life, as every one becomes accustomed at last
to everything in this world ; and from time to
time he came across a college friend, and had a
refreshing talk over old days, which, together

with those Sunday dinners, during the winter,
nt Marescalchi's club, made him feel that he was
not altogether an outcast from civilisation.

Had it not been for such occasional glimpses
as these of his own world, he would have led an
existence of complete solitude ; for the Brunes
were not people who had a large acquaintance, and
Walter had abstained from calling upon the few
friends whom he possessed in London, being, like
most young men crossed in love, in a temporary
condition of enmity against the whole of the
other sex. It was therefore with some surprise
that, on returning to his rooms one evenings in
the beginning of June, he found upon his table
a square envelope addressed in a lady's hand,
which envelope, when opened, proved to contain
a formal invitation to dinner from Lady Travers.

Walter's first impulse was to write a refusal.
He was shy, and he was rather afraid of the
magnificent people whom he supposed that he
would meet at Travers House. Besides which,
he did not wish to have anything to do with
any one who had ever borne the name of Winnington.
So he sat down and wrote that Mr.
Walter Brune regretted that he would be unable
to dine with Lord and Lady Travers on the
day named. Then he frowned thoughtfully
on this missive for five minutes, and ended
by tearing it up. It was true that Edith had

VOL. III. D

shown herself unworthy of an honest man's love ;
it was true also that he had himself got over a
boyish affection so obviously misplaced. Still,
he would rather like to know what had become
of her. He had been too proud to mention
Miss Wilmington in his letters home ; but the
fact was that he did feel some curiosity upon
this point, and no doubt Lady Travers would
satisfy it without any questions being put to her.
Accordingly, he took another sheet of paper,
and wrote that Mr. Walter Brune would have
much pleasure, &c. ; and ten days later, exactly
as the clocks were striking eight, Mr. Walter
Brune was mounting the great staircase of
Travers House. If he had learnt nothing else
in the City, he had at least learnt to be punctual ;
whence it resulted that he had to spend a quarter
of an hour by himself in a vast drawing-room,
feeling very hot and uncomfortable, before Lady
Travers came in and apologised.

I am afraid,' she began, l I have kept you
waiting, Mr. Brune — or may I not say W alter?
I have been so accustomed to hear you talked
about as Walter, that I can hardly think of you
by any other name.'

Walter said that he much preferred to be
called by his Christian name ; he, too, was much
more accustomed to that mode of address than
to a more formal one. He added, rather disingenuously,

that lie did not know by whom Lady
Travers could have heard him spoken of at all.

By Margaret, of course,' she answered,
laughing. ' Who else should have talked to me
about you ? '

And then she looked so hard at Walter that
that bashful young man became very red, and said
it was a hot day for the time of year. ' What an
ass she must think me ! ' he ejaculated inwardly.
Of course she knows all about it, and I believe
she's laughing at me. I wish to goodness I
hadn't come.'

But Lady Travers did not seem to notice his
embarrassment, and gave him time to recover
himself by talking without intermission until
the arrival of other guests obliged her to leave
him. The room was soon full of people ; and
Walter lost his self-consciousness in pleasure
and curiosity when he found himself close to a
knot of celebrities, amongst whom were a
Cabinet minister and two foreign ambassadors.
He was not introduced to Lord Travers, a fierce-looking
old man who was wheeled into the
drawing-room in a chair, but who did not appear
at the dinner-table, his gout forbidding him to
touch anv of the delicacies set before his quests.
At dinner Walter was placed next to a good-humoured
lady who knew all about him, having
had a son in the Oxford eleven, and who talked

D 2

quite knowingly on the subject of cricket ; so
that, upon the whole, our young friend spent a
pleasant enough evening ; though he could not
quite understand why he should have been
asked.

4 Going away already? ' said Lady Travers,
when he went up to bid her good night. l Why
are you in such a hurry ? I wanted to have a
chat with you about dear old Crayminster ; but
you must come and see me again soon. You
will be almost sure to find me any day between
five and six, and I shall always be at home to
you. It is so seldom that I meet anybody who
belongs to our part of the world now. I suppose
you know that my mother and Edith are
in London.'

Walter said Xo ; he had not heard.

Oh, yes ; they have taken a house in Park
Street lor the season. By the way, I have a
little dance next Thursday, and I shall be so
glad to see you, if you care to come.'

Walter was completely mystified. Why all
this excessive cordiality ? And what did Lady
Travers mean by talking about her mother and
sister ? One thing was certain, she could not
be aware of the circumstances under which he
had seen them last, and in any case he was
determined not to run the risk of meeting Edith
at this dance. He began some unintelligible

excuse, which. Lady Travers cut short without
ceremony.

c I think you had much better come,' she
said.

I can't come,' answered Walter, in despair.
4 If you will allow me, I will call upon you
some day, a ad tell you why. I can't explain
with all these people in the room.'

1 Explanations are not required,' she answered,
smiling. ' I know what your reason for refusing
is ; but it is such a bad one that I cannot accept
it. Why, my dear AValter, if everybody felt
the scruples that you do, society would come to
an end, because half the men in London would
be afraid to go out anywhere, lest they should
meet — somebody whom they didn't want to
meet.' She added in a lower voice, ' Don't be
so faint-hearted.'

• What do you mean ? ' Walter began eagerly.
But Lady Travers was already speaking to someone
else, and only looked over her shoulder, as
she shook hands with him, to say, ' I shall
expect you on Thursday, then.'

AValter trudged homewards in a state of
much wonder and excitement. If Lady
Travers had meant anything at all, she must
have meant that there was hope for him, and, if
there was hope for him, Edith must have mentioned
him to her ; and if Edith had mentioned

him . But at this point Walter called common
sense to his aid, and told himself that he
was not going to believe anything of that sort.
He had heard from the girl's own lips that she
did not care enough about him to face any trial
for his sake ; that, surely, was conclusive enough
to satisfy anybody. And then he recalled those
fatal words, and went through the conclusion of
that melancholy interview at Longbourne once
more, as he had done many and many a time
before, when he had been tempted to think that
he had been too hasty, and that, after all, it
might have been nothing but sheer terror of
Mrs. Wilmington that had induced Edith to
dismiss him. Nevertheless, the more he thought
of it — and he thought of very little else for the
next few days and nights — the more he became
convinced that Edith must have taken her sister
into her confidence, and surely Lady Travers
would not have been so cruel as to encourage
him unless there were some real ground for encouragement.
He made up his mind that he
would speak to Edith — there could be no harm
in his doing that ; for Mrs. Winnington herself
had admitted that they must speak, if they met
and then he would very soon find out the
truth. In the meantime, he could not help admitting
a delightful suspicion into his mind that
Edith had taken the very first possible means of

communicating with him that had come within
her reach since their severance. Even if she
only wanted to tell him that she was sorry for
having treated him with so much heartlessness,
that would be something. He pictured her
seizing an opportunity to whisper a few hurried
words of penitence to him in the ball-room, her
colour coming and going as of old, and he
could very easily imagine himself forgiving
her. Walter was nothing if not practical ;
yet the thought of a romantic leave-taking
and of two faithful hearts destined to beat
for ever apart was not without its charms for
him.

He nursed these pleasing illusions up to the
supreme moment when he accosted Edith on the
Thursday evening, and then was robbed of them
all at a blow ; for her start of surprise and her
face of consternation sufficiently convinced him
that this meeting had been entirely unforeseen by
her. She was looking radiantly beautiful ; she
was exquisitely dressed ; she wore about her
neck the magnificent pearls which had come to
Mrs. Wilmington by inheritance, and which had
enhanced the charms of each of her daughters in
succession ; half a dozen men were pressing
round her, begging for a dance, and Walter had
time to say no more than ' How do you do ? '
before he was jostled beyond speaking distance.

For the ' little dance ' to which he had been
invited was in reality a crowded ball.

Five minutes afterwards, the good-natured
lad' who had sat beside Walter on the night of the
dinner-party said to Lady Travers, i Would you
like to see a banker's clerk in a towering rage?
If so, just cast a glance at poor Mr. Brune. Has
the girl of his heart thrown him over, or is it
only that somebody has trodden on his toe ? '

Lady Travers hastened to join her young
friend, who indeed was leaning with his broad
shoulders against the wall, looking; as black as a
thunder-cloud.

What is the matter? ' she asked, trying hard
not to laugh.

Why did you make me come here ? ' returned
he. ' You knew quite well what it was that
induced me to accept your invitation, and I
suppose you knew, too, what I should get for my
pains. Well ; it was a capital joke, and I hope
you are satisfied. Your sister stared at me as
if she had seen a ghost, when I spoke to her ;
but the shock hasn't upset her much. You see
she is enjoying herself immensely, dancing with
that curly-headed fellow — whoever he may be.'

1 My dear Walter, you must not speak so
loud ; and you are not to scold me in my own
house, if you please. If } r ou are so ungrateful and
unreasonable, I shall send you about your business.

Can't you understand that, if I had told
certain people that you were to be here, certain
people would probably have remained away? I
have put your foot on the first step of the ladder ;
but I really cannot carry you up upon my shoulders.
Now do, like a good, sensible fellow, watch
your opportunity and take advantage of it, and
don't make me a rebuke to the foolish by standing
sulking there till people ask me who you
are, and what is the matter with you.'

I'm afraid I was awfully rude,' said Walter,
contritely ; ' you have been very kind to me —
I'm sure I don't know why — and I beg your
pardon for speaking as I did. But look here,
Lady Travers, I'm the worst man in the world at
understanding hints. I wish you woidd tell me
plainly whether there is any hope.'

There is always hope for a man. If a man
does not get what he wants, he has himself to
blame ; it is only women who are condemned to
be hopeless. Women are very often obliged to
say things that they don't mean, and to do things
that they don't want to do ; they have no choice.
However, there is one thing that a woman can
do ; she can always throw over a partner in
favour of some one else whom she likes better.'

Fortified by this hint, which, at all events,
could not be complained of on the score of
obscurity, Walter shouldered his way by degrees

to the open window, where he could see Edith
talking to the curly-headed youth whom he had
mentioned so contemptuously, and hovered about
within a few yards of her until the music struck
up again, when he boldly advanced, and said :
c I think this is our dance, Miss Winnington.'

Edith gave him a scared look, turned pink
and white, and white and pink again, and at last
answered hurriedly: ' Oh, no ; I think not. I
think you must have made a mistake.'

No mistake at all,' returned Walter, firmly ;
and he offered his arm, which she took after a
moment of hesitation.

Oh, not into the room, please,' she said,
with a little nervous laugh, as he began to follow
the crowd. ' 1 can't dance with you under the
eyes of my partner, and mamma would be so
angry if she saw us. It was very wrong of you
to claim me in this way, when you know you
never asked me for a dance at all ; but perhaps
just for once, as we are such old friends '

Yes ; let us do wrong for once — as we are
such old friends,' said Walter, drily. ' Where
can we go to get out of this crush ? '

4 That window opens on to a balcony ; we
might go out there for a few minutes. Only fora
few minutes, though ; I ought not to be speaking
to you at all. How do you come to be
here ? '

1 Oh, I assure you I was asked. It is very
extraordinary that I should have been, no
doubt ; but fashionable society is getting so
dreadfully mixed nowadays, you know,' answered
Walter, for he had not quite expected to be
greeted after this fashion, and it struck him that
there was a shade too much of patronage in
Edith's tone.

1 I don't think it is very kind of you to speak
like that,' she said, in alow voice.

They were out upon the balcony now,
and Edith, who had removed her hand from
Walter's arm, was leaning over the cushioned
balustrade, looking down upon the passing
vehicles in Park Lane, and upon the dark trees
beyond.

Kind ? ' returned Walter. ' Xo ; I daresay
it is not particularly kind. Perhaps, if you were
in my place, you wouldn't be very much disposed
to be kind. Xo ; I didn't mean that!
Don't go, Edith — don't be angry with me. You
know I would not be unkind to you for the
whole world. Of course my being here is odd ;
I never go anywhere ; I haven't been to a single
ball all the time that I have been in London,
and I suppose I was a great ass to come to this
one. But when Lady Travers told me that
I should meet you here, how could I help
myself ? '

Edith, who had made a movement as if to
return to the ball-room, had resumed her former
attitude, and now stood silent, with her back
turned to her companion.

Won't you at least say that you are a little
bit glad to see me?' he pleaded, after waiting
in vain for her to speak.

I am very glad to see you, Walter ; I
should always be glad to see you,' she answered
quickly, without looking at him. ' And we are
old friends, you know ; though you don't seem
to like my saying so. I thought you had forgotten
me altogether. You never inquired
whether I was dead or alive when you wrote to
Nellie

1 You did ask Nellie about me, then ? '

4 1 seem to be losing all my old friends
Edith went on, ignoring this interruption.
4 Nellie will hardly speak to me now ; I suppose
I must have offended her in some way. Are
you pleased about her engagement ? I never
thought she cared so much for Philip — did
you ? '

It is not always easy to tell whom women
care for. Nellie is a girl who knows her own
mind, anyhow. She wouldn't have taken him
unless she had cared for him ; you may be quite
sure of that.'

Wouldn't she ? She would have been very

foolish if she had, certainly, considering that she
is perfectly free to do as she likes. A great
many girls are obliged to accept men whom they
don't care for, and '

4 Edith, if you have accepted somebody else,
for God's sake say so, and let us get it over.
You told me you did not care for me. Whether
you quite meant that at the time, or whether
you were frightened into saying it, I don't know;
but it comes to much the same thing ; for you
could not have said it if you had really cared forme
'

If you think that,' interrupted Edith, ' what
is the use of alluding to the subject at all ? We
had much better not allude to it. I have not
accepted anybody, and I think most likely I
never shall ; but that can be nothing to you. I
did not expect that you would ever speak tome
again. You have every reason to hate and
despise me.'

Ah, but I don't ; I love you.'

You must not say that, Walter. Even supposing
that it were true '

1 1 certainly should not say it if it were
false.'

But you must not say it at all. If we are
to meet sometimes now. we must never talk
about that ; we must talk about other things.
What do you think of this extraordinary discovery

of Philip's ? Do you believe he is really
your cousin ? '

'I don't know what to think. My father believes
it. It is a bad look-out for us, I'm afraid.
But I can't discuss Philip now. Edith '

I I don't want to discuss Philip either ; I
would much rather hear about you. Are you
getting on well? and do you dislike your work
very much? '

I I can't say I like it ; but it give me something
to do, and leaves me little leisure for
thinking — which is a blessing.'

Do you ever play cricket now?'
4 No ; I haven't the time. Edith, I don't
want to take an unfair advantage of you ; but
you don't know what a difference it would make
in my life if you could tell me that you still
cared for me, ever so little ? '

You said I could not really care for you

What a lovely night ! Is it not, Mr. Lovelace ?
I came out here to get a breath of fresh air ; it
is so stifling indoors. Our dance ? — and nearly
over? I am so sorry ; but if you had been
searching for me high and low, as you say, you
could not have helped finding me. I only left
the room a few minutes ago. Good-night, Mr.
Brune. Are you coming to lunch here on Sunday
by any chance ? Oh, I thought perhaps you
might be.'

And so Edith was led away into the throng
by her justly-incensed partner, and Walter understood
that he was dismissed for that evening.
If he could have seen Lady Travers, he would
have asked her boldly whether he might call
upon her on Sunday ; but Lady Travers was
nowhere to be discovered, and the only familiar
face that he came across in the course of his
search was that of Mrs. Wilmington, who stared
very hard at him, and gave him an undecided
sort of bow, as he brushed past her.

It was only just past midnight when he
emerged upon Park Lane ; and as he felt quite
certain that he would not be able to sleep if he
went home, he thought he would walk down to
the New University Club, of which he was a
member, and think things over there with the
help of a pipe. Turning the corner of St.
James's Street, he met a tall pedestrian of military
bearing, who peered at him in the light of
a gas lamp, stopped short, and then said, ' Is
that Walter Brune ? ' And the next minute
he was shaking hands with Colonel Kenyon.

4 It is rather a piece of good fortune, my
meeting you,' the Colonel remarked. ' I heard
something to-clay which I think you ought to
know about. Could you spare me a quarter of
an hour ? '

Walter said, ' An hour, if you like,' and proposed

that they should walk on a few steps to
his club, where Colonel Kenyon said what he
had to say at greater length than need be reported.
In fulfilment of the resolution which
he had made some time before, while at Long-bourne,
he had been to Conduit Street, and
had heard from Philip's former landlady the
whole history of Mrs. Marescalchi's illness and
death. Thus the mystery was at last solved,
and the only question was whether it would be
rio-ht that he should make the matter known to
Miss Brune, or not, It was upon this point,
Hugh said, that he had been anxious to consult
her brother.

1 The business is not quite so bad a one as I
was afraid that it might be ; but in all conscience
it is bad enough. Why, at the very time
he proposed to your sister his wife can hardly
have been dead a month ! Can you imagine
a man being such a heartless scoundrel ? '

Walter shook his head. He had not spoken
during Colonel Kenyon' s recital, except once,
when he had ejaculated under his breath, * So
that was what became of poor little Fanny !
What an odd thing that I should never have
suspected it ! ' — and although he looked a good
deal vexed and distressed, he had hardly expressed
so much indignation as his informant
had expected that he would do.

1 Somebody ought to tell Miss Brune,' said
Colonel Kenyon, decisively ; ' the more so as
I don't for one moment believe that the fellow
himself will tell her, unless he is obliged. I
might write to Margaret ; but the fact of the
matter is that I have given so much offence
already by what I have said from time to time
about this precious young rascal that — that, in
short, I would much rather leave it alone. I
think you would be the proper person to write
to your sister.'

I suppose so,' said Walter, doubtfully.
Only, don't you think it would look rather
like stealing a march upon Philip ? '

Stealing a march upon him ! ' repeated
Hugh, scornfully. ' How is one to deal with a
fellow like that, unless one steals a march upon
him? I confess,' he went on, with some impatience,
l that I can't understand the weakness
that all you people seem to have for .
Here is a fellow Who sneaks off to Italy
to try and do your father out of his property,
who coolly proposes to your sister when he
hasn't a sixpence to bless himself with, who
keeps a wife in London on the sly, breaks her
heart, I suspect, and rushes off to engage himself
to somebody else before she is cold in her
grave — a fellow who laughs at you, and humbugs
you, and tells lies right and left, by
vol. in. E

George ! — and upon my word and honour, I
believe you think it's all right. If I venture to
suggest to Margaret that it would be as well to
look after him a little more closely, she turns
her back upon me ; and now, when I ask you to
tell your sister a plain and simple fact which no
gentleman in Marescalchi's place would have
concealed from her, you talk about stealing a
march upon him ! I must confess that I can't
make it out. It fairly beats me.'

Walter smiled deprecatingly. c You see,'
said he, l we have known Philip all our lives,
and — well, it is not very easy to make a
stranger understand how we feel towards him;
but the truth is that one can't help liking Philip.
I never met anybody yet who didn't like him.'

I beg your pardon,' said Hugh, with hearty
emphasis ; 4 you have met one man who don't
like him, never did, and never will.'

Ah, well ; you are the exception that
proves the rule, I suppose. I quite agree with
you that it would have been better if Philip
had been more straightforward ; but then, again,
there are lots of people who would say that a
man isn't bound to tell the whole story of his
past life as soon as he becomes engaged. We
don't know what he may have to say for himself
either ; and I am sure you are wrong about his
having broken] Fanny's heart. Philip is just

the same now that he used to be at school. He
does a heap of things that he ought not to do ;
but he never intends to hurt anybody — he never
means any harm.'

Of all the noxious reptiles that crawl the
earth, commend me to the man who doesn't
mean any harm ! ' called out Colonel Kenyon,
whose heat was greatly increased by the other's
misplaced leniency. ' Well ; do you mean to
write to your sister, or don't you?'

1 Oh, yes, I'll write,' answered Walter ;
there's no doubt that she ought to be told.'

And I sincerely hope and trust,' said Hugh,
getting up, ; that she will break off her engagement.
There's no saying what she may do,
though, or how she may take it. I don't
profess to understand women myself.'

4 They are curious creatures, certainly,'
agreed Walter, thinking of his own experience
of the sex.

'Most extraordinary,' said Hugh; 'most
extraordinary. Weil, good night, Walter. If
you could see your way to telling this story
without bringing my name into it, you know,
I should be just as well pleased.'

And, having given this incidental proof that
he understood something of the nature of at
least one woman in the world, Colonel Kenyon
struggled into his great-coat and went away.

E 2

CHAPTER XXVIII.

TOM STANNIFORTH FINDS HIS MATCH.

If Walter had not been in such a desperate
hurry to leave Lady Travers's ball, he might
probably have been called upon to shake hands
with an old acquaintance, in whose movements
he had good reason to be interested. Tom
Stanniforth, in this month of June, when public
business was being rapidly pushed forward and
philanthropic measures were in imminent danger
of being shelved by an impatient Legislature,
was too actively occupied a man to have much
time for dancing ; but between twelve and one
o'clock he did manage to hasten up from Westminster
to Travers House, and the first person
to whom he spoke, on his arrival, was Edith.

How late you are ! ' said she. i I thought
you were not coming.'

So did I, I can tell you, at one time. I got
away as soon as I could ; but I was bound not
to miss the division. When I saw Warrington
get upon his legs, I gave myself up for lost; but

happily he had forgotten his notes, so he treated
us to a confused oration, which was quite short
for him, and soon after that we were let out
of school. I hope you got the flowers I sent
you?'

6 Thank you, yes ; they arrived quite safely,
and they were very pretty.'

1 You have not brought them with you
though, I see.'

4 They did not match my dress. And, Mr.
Stanniforth, I hope you will not take the trouble
to go to Co vent Garden, or wherever it is that
you buy flowers, any more on my account. I am
sure it must be a great tax upon you.'

Good gracious me ! I haven't the time to
go to Covent Garden. I send out to the florist's
to order them.'

I see,' said Edith, with a quiet smile. ' Butin
future your servant might be spared the walk
to the florist's. I don't think I care much for
bouquets.'

Don't you? Well, I rather agree with you.
They are a barbarous sort of things in themselves,
and they must be a great nuisance to
carry about; but I thought '

You thought it would be the proper thing
to send them, and I am sure you are very kind;
but henceforth we will take the will for the
deed. Don't you want to go and dance with

O

somebody now? It is useless to ask me; I am
much too tired and too hot to move from my
seat, now that I have found one.'

It will be seen from the above that contact
with the world had rubbed off a good deal of
the shyness with which Edith was afflicted when
we first made her acquaintance ; but that she
was still subject to timidity, under certain
circumstances, was plainly shown when Mrs.
Winnington came sailing up to say —

Oh, Mr. Stanniforth, how kind of you to
send those lovely flowers ! I hope you will
forgive me for not allowing Edith to bring
them ; but pink and green, you know ! I have
such a dreadfully sensitive eye for colour ; it is
quite a misfortune to me ; and I really could
not let her carry them with that dress on —
though she was very angry with me about it.
Weren't you, Edith?'

And Mrs. Winnington accompanied this
query with a look which caused her daughter
to cast all regard for truth to the winds, and
to answer, i Yes, mamma,' with the utmost
promptitude.

4 Miss Winnington has been telling me that
she doesn't care for bouquets,' observed Tom.

c What nonsense ! ' Mrs. Winnington was
beginning ; but Tom went on —

1 Nor do I, I must say. So we are agreed.

I like nothing better than wild flowers myself.'


1 "Well, perhaps bouquets are rather stiff ;
still you could hardly walk into a ball-room
with a bunch of buttercups and daisies in your
hand. By the by. Mr. Stanniforth, I want to
tell you how very much interested I was in
reading your speech of last night. So telling,
and so perfectly unanswerable ! The poor Home
Secretary ! I felt quite sorry for him ; though
I suppose you would say that he deserved it all.
But I must not keep you from dancing.'

I am not going to dance,' answered Tom.
1 That is another point upon which your daughter
and I are of one mind. We think it is much
better fun to sit still and look on in such weather
as this.'

It was quite the same thing to Mrs. Winnington
whether this couple sat still or danced,
provided that they remained together ; so she
only exclaimed playfully, ' Oh, you shockingly
lazy people ! ' and passed on in high good-humour.


It would occupy rather too much space to
record the gradual process by which Mr. Tannin
had been brought, or had brought himself,
to the point of paying serious addresses to Edith
Winnington. When he had been rejected by
the only woman whom he had ever loved, he

had made up his mind, as a natural consequence
of that disappointment, that he would remain a
bachelor for the rest of his days ; but since then
he had seen reason to reconsider his determination.
His father, who was growing alarmed lest
the family of Stanniforth should become extinct
in the zenith of its glory, and its wealth be distributed
among distant collateral, urged him
frequently and piteously to take a wife without
further loss of time ; Tom himself began to
think that it was almost his duty to do so ; and
while he was still wavering — these considerations
alone being not quite weighty enough to
decide him — came the news of Nellie's engagement
to Philip, which clinched the matter.
There was, of course, no good reason for its
doing so, since he had abandoned all idea of
gaining Nellie's love for himself; but the feeling
was not, perhaps, an altogether unnatural one.
Thus it came to pass that, when Mrs. Winning-ton
let him know of her arrival in Park Street
by an invitation to dinner, he not only accepted
this hospitality, but came to the conclusion that
he might do a great deal worse than accept what
was delicately offered at the same time ; and
from that day forth he set himself to prosecute
his suit in the intervals of business. The House
of Commons, the habitual drunkards, and the
oppressed railway servants occupied by far the

most important place in his thoughts (for her
was firmly resolved to think no more of Nellie);
but there still remained to him, under the head
of relaxation, an hour or two out of every day
to be devoted to Miss Bennington, whom he
considered a very nice girl, and much improved
in manner of late. He was not in love with
her, and did not attempt to persuade himself
that he was so ; but he believed that he could
make her happy, and that, hi a comparative
fashion, she would make him happy too. Indeed,
so long as there were habitual drunkards
and other such unfortunates in the land, he was
not likely to be dependent upon domesticity for
comparative happiness.

Mr. Stanniforth, then, became so marked in
his attentions to the ladies in Park Street that
Mrs. Bennington, feeling this bird to be well in
the hand, began to beat the bush in search of
other and rarer ones, and had fairly good sport
with a few young peers, until their respective
mammas turned upon her, and gave her to
understand that such poaching would not be
permitted. Edith, for her part, gave Mr. Stan-north
no little encouragement. She had the
weakness of will innate in her father's family ;
but she had also, as many weak persons have, a
considerable power of passive resistance, when
driven to extremities. Mrs. Winnington could

lead her to the water any day with the greatest
ease ; but it was not quite so certain that she
could be made to drink. Her present idea was
to temporise ; and this, she thought, could be
best accomplished by allowing Mr. Stanniforth
and others to suppose that she meant to accept
him. She had measured quite accurately the
extent of his affection for her, and knew that
there would be no difficulty at all in staving off
his proposal until the end of the session. If, in
the meantime, she could use him as a weapon to
keep other admirers at a distance, there would
be that much, at all events, gained. And he
was really a very pleasant kind of man to have
for a friend. He knew all sorts of people, and
could provide anything that was required of him
at a moment's notice, from a box at one of the
theatres to places in the ladies' gallery of the
House of Commons. He had even, upon more
than one occasion, procured invitations for Mrs.
Winning-ton and her daughter from ladies with
whom they were not upon visiting terms ; though
this last was a proof of friendship with which
Edith would willingly have dispensed.

Nobody, however, need hesitate about asking
for an invitation for a man ; and that was why,
after Mrs. Winnington had left Mr. Stanniforth
and Edith to entertain one another, as already
related, the latter broke in upon the resume

which her neighbour was giving of the Prime
Minister's speech, by saying —

You know Lady Cecilia Caroll, don't you ?'

1 Oh, yes ; I know her.'

1 I want you to get me a card for her concert
on the 5th. Do you think you can manage it ? '

1 But I thought you told me that you were
going.'

1 So we are. It was not for myself that
I wanted the invitation, but for a friend of
mine, who was here this evening — Mr. Walter
Brune.'

1 What, young Brune from Broom Leas ?
Dear me, is he in London ? Well, I'll do what
I can ; but I rather expect I shall be snubbed.
Old Lady Cecilia is not the most amiable woman
in the world, and she prides herself upon never
crowding her rooms. I was rather surprised at
her '

At her asking us ? '

I Xo, no, my dear Miss Wilmington cried
Tom, who may, nevertheless, have had some
such thought in his mind when he checked
himself ; * I was going to say that I was surprised
at her asking me. Do you very particularly
wish for this invitation ? '

I I should have liked Walter to have it. He
is very fond of music, and I don't think he
often gets a chance of hearing any ; but pray

don't trouble yourself, if there is any difficulty
about it.'

He shall have it,' answered Mr. Stanniforth,
confidently. ' I can bring pressure to bear upon
the old lady through her son, who is a red-hot
Radical, and looks up to me with admiring eyes.
Will you give me Brune's address, or shall I
send the card to you ? '

You can send it to me,' answered Edith ;
4 or, rather, you can give it to me the next time
we meet. And, Mr. Stanniforth, you needn't
mention it to mamma, please. She — doesn't
much like the Brunes.'

I All right ; I won't say a word. Do you
ever — ahem! — hear anything of the Brunes
now ? '

I I saw Waiter to-night for a few minutes.
I hear of the others through Margaret every
now and then.'

And are they all quite well down there ?
Miss Brune in the seventh heaven of happiness,
I suppose — that sort of thing,' said Mr.
Stanniforth, with somewhat exaggerated carelessness.


I don't know about that. She did not seem
to me to be particularly happy when I saw her
last ; but I suppose she ought to be so. Mr.
Brune is not much pleased with her engagement
I believe.'

1 One could hardly expect him to be pleased,
young Marescalchi having no money and no
profession,' said Mr. Stanniforth, who of course
had heard nothing of Philip's supposed claims to
Longbourne ; ' but that only shows all the more
that it must have been a love match, don't you
see?'

1 Did anybody ever suggest that it was anything
else? ' said Edith, smiling. ' People maybe
in love and yet not be happy, you know.
How tired I am! I wish it was time to go
away. Would you mind hunting up mamma,
and persuading her to move ? I shall meet you
here at luncheon on Sunday, shall I not?'

Mr. Stanniforth said that Lady Travers had
been kind enough to ask him, and then went off
in search of Mrs. Wilmington, as he was told.

It will now be understood why Walter had
not been bidden to this Sunday feast. A meeting
between him and Tom Stanniforth might, or
mifrht not, be awkward ; and as a matter of fact
Lady Travers had at first fully intended to ask
him ; but, after witnessing his behaviour in the
ball-room, she had perceived that he was not
nearly man of the world enough to be trusted
in a situation requiring some patience and self-control.
She liked him none the less for his
lack of these serviceable qualities; but she dared
not run the risk of a scene — especially as Lord

Travers was accustomed to honour her with his
company in the middle of the day.

This last consideration likewise prevented
her from including her mother in the party.
Lord Travers, who hated a good many people,
hated his mother-in-law more than his wife, his
doctor, and his lawyer all put together — which
was saying a great deal. He had not spoken to
her for years, and had long ago given orders that
she was upon no pretence to be admitted
into his house at any time when there could bea
possibility of his meeting her.

Mrs. Winnington was very forgiving about
it. She went to the large entertainments at
Travers House, and sent Edith to the small ones,
saying that one really could not bring oneself to
cross or contradict poor George, who was such a
constant sufferer ; but that he held views upon
religious subjects which she felt that she ought
not to listen to without a protest ; and therefore
it was just as well that they should riot often
meet. Furthermore, she could not quite approve
of Sunday entertainments for herself, though
she was far from condemning others who saw
their way to participating in them.

It may be taken for granted that this
orthodox churchman was not missed by any
of those who assembled at Travers House on
the day in question ; and probably by none of

them was her absence less regretted than by the
daughter whom she had dropped in Park Lane
on her way back from church. It was not often
that Edith escaped from her mother's tender
supervision, and when she did so, she enjoyed
her liberty to the utmost. She would have
enjoyed this luncheon-party had it consisted
entirely of elderly spinsters, instead of being
composed, as it was, principally of very agreeable
young men, who vied with one another in
their efforts to amuse her. The talk was general,
and was entertaining enough in its way, and
there was a great deal of laughter, to which
Edith contributed her fair share. The old man
in the wheeled chair, at the other end of the
table, did not act as a damper upon the spirits
of the younger people. He had a few friends of
his own around him, who talked to him about
racing and the prospects of the moors — for he
had been a great sportsman in days gone by —
and he took not the slightest notice of his wife's

guests.

1 Here is your card,' said Tom Stanniforth.
when luncheon was over and he had an opportunity
of speaking to Edith in private.

1 Oh, thank you! 'she answered gratefully.
taking the envelope and slipping it into hei
pocket. ' I hope you didn't have a great deal o
trouble in getting it.'

There would be no pleasure in obliging a
friend, if it did not cost one a little trouble todo
so,' answered Mr. Stanniforth, who indeed
had carried his point after an interview with Lady-cecilia
which had been almost too much even
for his indomitable good-temper. ' It is to be a
very good concert, I am told, if Brune cares for
that kind of thing. I didn't fancy he was
musical.'

Edith looked rather guilty for a moment, but
recovered herself quickly. 4 1 don't know that
he is exactly musical,' she replied ; 'but he likes
music ; all the Brunes do. Nellie delights in
in it.'

Does she ? Perhaps that was one of the
things that attracted her to young Marescalchi,
who is going to be the great singer of the day, I
hear. When is he expected back from Italy? '

c I don't know. Mr. Stanniforth, you saw a
great deal of Nellie at one time ; I wish you
would tell me whether she really cares for
Philip, or not.'

c Now, my dear Miss Winnington, is it likely
that I should know that, if you don't ? Have
you any reason for doubting it ? '

Yes, I have a reason ; but it is only a sort
of a kind of a reason ; and Nellie never tells me
anything. I thought perhaps she might have
been more communicative with you.'

Oh clear, no ! Miss Brune never liked me, I
am sorry to say. Have you heard the rumour
that there is a split in the Ministry? ;

c Yes ; you told me. At least, I don't quite
remember ; but I shall read all about it in the
Observer when I go home, I dare say. I never
can take an interest in politics, and I aren't open
my lips when people get upon these subjects,
lest I should display my appalling ignorance.'

4 1 am afraid I must often have bored you
beyond endurance,' said Mr. Stanniforth with
tardy compunction.

By telling me of all those wonderful
schemes of yours ? Oh, no ; you have not
bored me ; only I cannot always make out what
it is all about. Now, Nellie takes the greatest
interest in everything of that kind, and has the
whole Act or Bill, or whatever you call it, at
her fingers' ends in no time. She was quite
excited over that Anti Vaccination Bill that you
used to talk about — no ; not anti vaccination,
What was it?'

'The anti vivisection measure?' suowsted
Tom wonderingly. The pertinacity with which
Miss Winnington recurred to Nellie's name
puzzled and rather annoyed him. He did not
want to talk about Nellie; nor was it agreeable
to him to hear comparisons drawn between the
girl whom he wished and the one whom he

VOL. III. F

intended to marry. ' I find that all the ladies
are with me upon the subject of vivisection,' he
began, by way of gently leading the conversation
towards generalities.

But Miss Winnington was not to be baffled.
c Nellie certainly would be,' said she ; ' for she
is so devoted to all animals — horses and dogs
especially. I never heard the true history of
that escape of hers out hunting. Wasn't it you
who picked her up, and dressed her wounds, and
set her upon your own beast ? '

It was in this wily manner that Mr. Tannin
was lured into the beginning of a dialogue
long before the end of which Edith had found
out all that she had wanted to do, and knew as
well as if she had been told it in so many words
that her companion's heart was no longer his
own to dispose of. For more reasons than one,
the discovery gave her a good deal of satisfaction
; and she determined to use it for her own
purposes, feeling no scruple in so doing. For
what business has a man to be paying court to
one lady when he is manifestly and ridiculously
in love with another? Edith had no manner of
doubt but that her admirer would throw her
over ruthlessly, if Nellie were free and willing
to accept his hand ; and that, thought she, was a
game at which two could play.

Before she went away, she found out Walter's

address from her sister, and posted the card
which had been given to her for him, writing
the initials E. W. in the corner of the envelope
in order to prevent misconceptions. It was quite
possible that Walter, who knew so little of
London life, might be surprised at receiving an
invitation from a total stranger, and might have
the stupidity to decline it.

As for Tom Stanniforth, he left Travers
House, that afternoon, more disposed to be in
love with Edith than he had ever been before.
He was astonished to find how much he had
enjoyed talking to her, and how quickly the
time had passed. She had been lively, she had
been loquacious, she had actually, once or twice,
been amusing. And she really was a good girl.
How kindly and pleasantly she had spoken about
Nellie ! and how very seldom it is that you hear
one woman praise another in that hearty and
unreserved way ! The poor man is hardly to be
blamed if he fancied that it was the sunshine of
his presence that had caused this shrinking
flower to expand so charmingly, and he should
surely be praised in that he resolved, for the
hundred-and-fiftieth time, to think thenceforward
more of her and less of Nellie.

It was a few days after this that Walter
thought the time had come for him to call upon
Lady Travers, whom he was fortunate enough

F 2

to find sipping her afternoon cup of tea alone,
and who began to laugh as soon as she saw
him.

Now I do wonder what you are laughing
at,' said he rather crossly.

4 1 am laughing at you, Walter,' she answered;
' so now you know.'

Walter sat down, and looked indignant notes
of interrogation.

Don't you think you are very funny ? ' asked
Lady Travers, still laughing.

I think you are making fun of me, if that's
what you mean. ?

'No, I am not; but why do you march into
the room in that defiant way, looking as if you
were not to be trifled with and wouldn't stand
any nonsense? '

I suppose I look as I feel,' replied Walter,
curtly.

But you really must not feel like that. Of
course, if you choose to go at things in a
hammer-and-tongs style, and demand a plain
Yes or No to every question, you will get your
answer. You will get a plain No, if that will
do for you. If you want the answer to be Yes,
you must try to be a little more humble.'

Lady Travers, I will be as humble as you
please ; I am ready to kneel down in the dust before
her. But I won't be played fast and loose with;

I won't be flirted with for a season and then
pushed on one side and told that I ought to feel
very thankful for having been admitted into the
society of my betters. Either Edith loves me,
or she doesn't. If she doesn't, well and good; I
have no right to complain. But if she does, I
think she ought to say so.'

I have had to do with a good many dense
and obstinate people,' remarked Lady Travers ;
1 but never yet have I met your equal. I am
not at all sure that I should not do more wisely
to send you away and encourage Edith to marry
some decent old man with plenty of money,
who would buy pretty things for her and get on
well with my mother. By the way, my mother
is laid up with the gout again.'

Walter said he was sorry to hear it.

Yes; I thought you would be sorry. You
will not have the pleasure of meeting her for
some time now; and I suppose I shall have to
act as Edith's chaperon.'

At this Walter grinned ; but presently heaved
a deep sigh. 4 It doesn't make much difference
to me,' he said despondently ; ' I don't live in
your world. She sent me this,' he added, pulling
an envelope out of his pocket. 'It's an invitation
to a concert from a Lady Somebody Something,
whom I never heard of. I've a great
mind not to go.'

I I wouldn't go, if I were you said Lady
Travers, calmly. ' I would display a proper
spirit by remaining away, and sulking like a
great baby, and showing Edith how stupid it
was of her to move heaven and earth to get an
invitation for you which has been refused to
hundreds of people. That is the way to make
yourself appreciated at your right value.'

Walter lifted both his hands to his head and
rumpled his hair despairingly. ' What are you
driving at?' he asked. ' What would you have
me do ? '

I would have you remember that it was not
Edith who enticed you out of your seclusion.
You have no right to stalk up to her looking
like an angry turkey cock, and ask u Why did you
send for me, if you have nothing to say to me?"
You might also remember that you are not yet
in a position to marry.'

I I admit all that,' answered Walter ; c and if
you tell me that I have no right to think of
marrying Edith, I shall not contradict you.
The only right that I do claim is that of being
told whether I am to hope or not. I care for
Edith a great deal too much to enjoy the chance
of an occasional flirtation with her on the sly.
I would rather never see her at all than be
allowed, as a great favour, to see her sometimes
in that way.'

1 If I were not the most patient woman alive,'
cried Lady Travers, ' I should wash nry hands
of you. You are impracticable ! You ought to
understand that it is not always possible to state
things in such very plain terms as you seem to
require. But I am exceedingly patient ; and I
don't wish Edith to be as unhappy as — as some
people are who marry for position and wealth.
You must be aware that that is the sort of
marriage which she will be forced to make, unless
somebody holds out a helping hand to save her.
Now, you know, Walter, I like you very much,
in spite of your bad manners, and I should be
delighted to do anything that I could to oblige
you ; but you won't mind my saying that it was
not out of pure affection for you that I took the
trouble to discover where you lived and to drag
you into society by the hair of your head. I
thought that you and I could save Edith between
us ; and I think so still — though you are most
discouraging. How am I to make you understand
things ? Try to imagine yourself in Edith's
place — frightened to death of somebody whom we
need not name, in daily peril of receiving an offer
which you coiud hardly dare to[refuse, miserably
unhappy at home, and longing above all things
to escape from it — don't you think you would
feel as if it: was not much use to fight against
fate? But if you knew that there was some one

who cared for you a great deal, and that he was
content to wait patiently for better times and
trusted to you to be patient too, and if you could
see his face, from time to time, to give you a dose
of courage — then, perhaps you would be able to
go on fighting.'

1 Ah ! but will she be content to wait
patiently ? '

L That depends very much upon you, I should
think. I can't say whether she would or not ;
but I am afraid she might not, if you were rough
with her and frightened her. You don't know,
and you are a great deal too stupid, my poor
Walter, to take in, how brave and how cowardly
women can be. You yourself, I suppose, are
afraid of nothing. You would like to settle all
difficulties, literally and metaphorically, with
your fists. But we don't fight with those
weapons, you see, and they would be of no use
at all to you here. If you must fight, fight in
another sense. Fight your way up in the world:
that is what I should do, if I were a man. I
should make up my mind that I would be a
partner in Boulger's bank, for instance.'

1 That is easy to say,' observed Walter.

4 And if it is not easy to do, let it be done
with difficulty!' cried Lady Travers intrepidly.
4 A man can have anything in the world that
he wants, if he will only determine to have it-look

at Napoleon ; look at Washington; and —
and '

1 And Whittington, thrice Lord Mayor of
London said Walter, laughing. ' Well, if trying
is any good. I'll try ; yon may be sure of
that. And, Lady Travers, you'll let me see her
as often as you can, won't you? '

c Yes ; but not too often. And you are not
to take things too much for granted, please, or
to expect her to throw herself into your arms,
or to look black when she talks to another man.'

All these injunctions Walter promised that
he would faithfully observe ; and so, after a little
more good advice, he was dismissed.

CHAPTER XXIX.

Margaret Stanniforth was sitting in the
library at Longbourne, enjoying the repose of
solitude and of a lovely June afternoon. She
was enjoying these things, that is, as far as it
was possible to her to do so ; for, unluckily
for her, she was not one of those people who
are good company for themselves. In order
thoroughly to appreciate the charm of being
alone, persons of her temperament must be very
happy or very much the reverse ; and at this
time she was neither the one nor the other.
She had, moreover, various causes for disquietude
and anxiety, and these were apt to
rise up before her in dismal array when she
had nothing else to do than to think about
them. Philip's letters had of late been few and
short ; it was only too clear that things were
not turning out in accordance with his wishes ;
and what was worse than this was that Nellie
appeared, most unreasonably, to cherish a grudge

against him on account of the course which he had

o

seen fit to pursue, and persistently changed the
subject when his name was mentioned. It was
chiefly on Philip's behalf that Margaret felt ill
at ease ; but there was another small matter
which disturbed her peace a good deal in these
days, and which was certainly not among the
annoyances to which any one would have supposed
her likely to be liable.

Exceeding her income ! — exceeding fifteen
thousand five hundred a year ! ' exclaimed old
Mr. Stanniforth, when Hugh journeyed to Manchester
for the express purpose of making a
singular communication to him. ' Then all I
can say is that she must have a nest of first-class
robbers under her roof ! '

The old gentleman had, however, made no
great difficulty about authorising his co-executor
to sell out certain securities ; and in this manner
the cost of Mrs. Winnington's residence
and entertainments in Park Street had been
defrayed.

Given a proportionate style of living it is not
much more difficult to exceed fifteen thousand
than fifteen hundred a year ; and poor Margaret's
financial talents were of the slenderest order.
During the first days of her wealth, when it had
seemed to her that her income was practically
boundless, she had responded liberally to every

appeal for charity that had been made to her,
and she would not now reduce subscriptions
which were really out of all keeping with her
resources. Later on, the charity which begins
at home had been forcibly brought to her notice
by her mother, who knew how far money would
go, if any one did, but who not unjustifiably
argued that Margaret was quite the richest
woman of her acquaintance. The expense of
living at Longbourne this economist assessed at
about one-third of her daughter's income, leaving
a balance of at least 9,000^. per annum to be
devoted to the relief of the deserving. As a
matter of fact, Longbourne cost Mrs. Tannin
very nearly double the sum assigned
thereto by her mother ; and when to this was
added the maintenance of such very expensive
persons as Mrs. Wilmington herself and Philip
Marescalchi had become, it will be seen that not
much margin was left for unforeseen calls.

So it came about that Margaret, instead of
laying by money, often found herself pinched
for the want of it ; and this it was that caused
her pangs of self-reproach, and, among other
things, made solitude distasteful to her. She
moved about the room restlessly, wondering — as
she had so often done in the course of her rather
unhappy life — why responsibilities which she
was utterly incapable of exercising should have

been cast upon her, and whether, upon the
whole, it would not have been a great deal
better for everybody if she had never been born.

I wish somebody would come and see me,'
she thought; 'I wish Hugh would come. And,
oh ! how I wish Philip would come back ! '

She was standing by the window when she
uttered this last aspiration aloud, and hardly
had she done so when her eye was attracted by
a slowly-moving black object which was advancing
far away across the sunny expanse of
the park. This, by degrees, took the distinct
shape of one of the ramshackle flys from Cray-minster
station, and as it drew nearer it became
evident that there was luggage upon the box.
Then Margaret drew in her breath, while her
face lighted up with joyous surprise ; for who
but one person could be driving up to Lono'-
bourne provided with two large portmanteaux
and a hat-box?

All doubt was soon at an end. The fly
rolled up over the gravel, and stopped at the
door ; a dusty traveller descended ; and in
another minute Mr. Marescalchi was in Margaret's
arms. Philip wore a rueful countenance.
When the first inarticulate sounds of welcome
and salutation had been interchanged, he dropped
down upon a sofa, made gestures intended to
simulate the rending of his clothes and the

heaping of dust upon his head, and began in a
lamentable voice : —

Where's the fatted calf, Meg ? Send for the
ring and the new garment, and let us eat, drink,
and be merry. Walk up, ladies and gentlemen !
walk up, and see the show. Here's your fine
old genuine prodigal ; there's no deception.
I've wasted my substance in a far country, I've
lived among — well, we won't push the parallel
too far. Meg, I have come home to confess my
sins. I am no more worthy '

Margaret laid her hand upon his lips.
'Hush!' she said. 'I don't like to hear you
make fun of the Bible.'

1 Fun — I make fun ! ' groaned Philip. ' Oh
dear, oh dear ! you little know how far I am
from being in a jocose humour. I am trying to
stave off the evil moment, that's all.'

1 There can be no evil moments now that you
have come back to me safe and sound,' said
Margaret quickly.

Yes ; that's the proper spirit in which to
receive the prodigal. And yet the evil moment
has to be got through. I have made a mess of
it, Meg — a thorough, complete, and satisfactory
mess of it. I was within a hair's breadth of
being the owner of Longbourne ; but the laws
of England, which look favourably upon the
splitting of hairs, won't allow of their being

swept away altogether ; and so I am landless
and nameless, and my parents were never man
and wife, because they forgot that the Union
Jack was flying within a stone's throw of the
church in which they were married. '

Philip then related how and why he had
failed to attain the object of his journey to
Florence, and basked for a while in the warmth
of affectionate sympathy.

1 1 do think it is most abominably unjust
exclaimed Margaret. l What more can people
do than be married in church? As if a mere
contract made in a Consul's office could be as
important as that ! Tom Stanniforth, who is so
fond of taking up other people's grievances,
ought really to bring this one before Parliament.'


On public grounds, I dare say it might be a
good thing if he did. As far as I am personally
concerned, no amount of Tom Stanniforths or
Acts of Parliament could help me. I am a
failure, Meg ; and, what is worse, I have made
myself into a ludicrous failure. Do you know
that for some time I was strongly tempted to
disappear and never let you hear of me again ? '

Oh, Philip ! '

But I thought better of it, you see. The
prodigal, you know, thought better of it when his
money was all gone, and it came to be a case of

husks or starvation. But I don't suppose that
he put things to himself in that coarse way. I
should imagine, judging from analogy, that what
he said to himself was something more like this :
What an ungrateful brute I am ! Here have I
been receiving every imaginable kindness all my
life, and scarcely troubling myself to say thank
you for it, thinking of nothing and caring for
nothing but my own gratification — and now I
have my reward ! I am ashamed of myself and
disgusted with myself. I can't undo the past ;
but I will go home and cry peccavi ; and then, if
my father chooses to turn me out of doors, let
him do it. I shall not complain." So he packs
his portmanteau, and pays his hotel bill, and off
he goes to the station without saying a word to
anybody, and — and — here he is, wishing very
much to make a clean breast of it, but in oh !
such an awful funk that he doesn't know how to
begin. '

1 Am I so formidable ? ' said Margaret, smiling
and giving Philip's hand an encouraging squeeze.
1 My dear boy, if you have anything unpleasant
to tell me, tell it me at once ; and don't think
that I shall scold you. I am a great deal too
bad myself to condemn my neighbours. The
only way in which you could really pain me
would be to conceal your troubles from me ;
and that you have never done in your life.'

Ah, Meg ; it is just what I have done. I
don't want to make excuses for myself ; but I
can't help thinking that it is more difficult to me
to be honest than to most people. Walter, now,
couldn't tell a lie to save his life ; if he did, he
would get so red and look so guilty that it
wouldn't be of the slightest service to him. But
I don't suffer in that way. I can tell a lie with
the utmost facility ; and that, I suppose, is why
I have been telling you lies of a more or less
direct kind ever since I can remember.'

c Oh, don't say that ! ' exclaimed Margaret.

You had better not tempt me,' answered
Philip, with a rather bitter laugh, ' or I may
take you at your word. My poor, clear old Meg,
I could go on throwing dust in your eyes to the
end of the chapter ; but I won't. I want to
turn over a new leaf — upon my soul and honour,
I do ! Only, before I can do that, I must
swallow a dose of nauseous physic ; and if you
only knew how I hate the idea of raising it to
my lips, you would beware of interrupting me.
Xow, don't say a word ; I am going to drink.'
Philip made a gulp and a grimace, and then said,
very quickly : c What Kenyon told you was true.
I was married for rather more than a year ; and
all last winter I lived with my wife in Conduit
Street, where she died only a few months ago.

VOL. III. G

She was a girl from a pastry cook's shop in
Oxford.'

Margaret turned very white ; but she did
not remove her hand from Philip's shoulder,
where she had laid it when she sat down beside
him on the sofa.

i Oh, how did it happen ? ' she exclaimed. ' I
am sure it was all her fault.'

In the midst of all his discomfort and humiliation
Philip could not repress a short laugh, ' No,
it was not her fault,' he answered. ' She was as
good a little woman as ever breathed ; and —
well, I was very fond of her.'

4 Fonder than of Xellie ?' asked Margaret
hastily.

• No ; not nearly so fond, At least, I believe
not — I can't tell. Will you have the whole
truth? / don't remember. Oh, dear me!'
exclaimed Philip, bursting out laughing, ' when
I do go in for telling the truth, I believe there's
no one like me. I wonder how many men there
are living in this world of weathercocks who
would have dared to say such a thing as that ! '

It certainly was not very wise to say such
things to Margaret. She tried to look as if shew
7 as not pained and shocked, but made an indifferent
success of the attempt.

I don't wonder that you did not let me
know about it at first,' she said. ' Of course

you could not let me know, and it is not telling
an untruth to remain silent. Perhaps, for
everybody's sake, it was kinder to remain silent
for a time. I can see how it was ; you intended
to enlighten me, and then you put off, and put
off, as one does. Wasn't that it?'

I was having her educated and made presentable,'
answered Philip. He perfectly under ■■
stood that Margaret was arguing with herself
quite as much as she was making excuses for
him ; and it did not appear to him that she was
likely to get the best of the argument. He
would almost rather have been reproached a
little.

Poor thing ! ' Margaret said presently.

'Yes, you may say "Poor thing!" now,
without a mental reservation. I wonder how it
would have been had she been still living, and
I had brought her down here to introduce her
to you. She used to talk about " behaviour ; "
and if Mrs. Winnington had snubbed her, it is
more than probable that she would have burst
out crying hi public. Would you have said,
"Poor thing!" then? No; you would have
said, " Vulgar little wretch ! " '

'I hope I should not.'

'Wouldn't you? You would have thought
it, though ; and so should I, perhaps. I was
awfully unhappy when I thought that she was

going to die ; I don't know when I have been
so unhappy in my life. But as soon as she was
gone I began to see that whatever is is right.
Tell me now — because I should like to know
what you really think about it — was that human
nature, or was it only my nature ? '

Oh, don't ! ' exclaimed Margaret. She did
not at all understand Philip's whimsical pleasure
in sneering at himself; nor could she guess that
it was in this manner that he was accustomed
to answer conscience and still the pangs of
remorse.

There was a long silence, which Margaret
broke by asking, c Washes a sudden death ? '

And then Philip, taking up a different tone,
related how he had lost first his baby, and
afterwards his wife, and spoke upon both subjects
with so much real feeling that he was quite
forgiven long before he had ceased.

1 1 suppose you have not told Nellie anything
about this yet ? ' said Margaret.

4 Gracious goodness ! no. Must I confess
my sins to more than one person ? '

But, Philip, I don't think that there has
been any sin. You have said the worst of
yourself that possibly could be said ; and I feel
sure that, if you had chosen, you might have
made things sound very differently. One cannot
call it wrong to make a foolish marriage.'

4 In ray case, perhaps, hereditary instincts
may be pleaded as an extenuation of the offence.'

4 Only I do think it would be wrong to conceal
it from Xellie. If she loves you, she will certainly
pardon you ; but it might not be so easy
for her to forgive, if she were to hear the story
from somebody else.'

4 Such as that admirable creature Colonel
Kenyon, for instance. I'll tell her then ; though
I verily believe that, if I take many more steps
in the path of righteousness, my hair will turn
white in a single night, as Poniard's didn't.'

4 At all events,' said Margaret cheerfully,
4 you have got through your confession in one
quarter ; and you see it has not been so very
terrible, after all.'

4 Oh, but excuse me ; I haven't got through
it. The worst is still to come.'

4 The worst ! ' echoed Margaret in dismay.

Philip nodded. 4 1 told you about my friend
Signora Tommasini. didn't I ? '

4 Yes — well ? — oh, you surely cannot mean

4 That I have married Signora Tommasini ?'
asked Philip, going off into a peal of laughter ;
for Margaret's face of consternation tickled him
irresistibly. ' Xo ; it isn't quite so bad as that.
It's bad enough, though,' he added, becoming
suddenly sobered ; 4 1 owe her a lot of money.'

Margaret drew a long breath. l If that is
all! ' said she.

1 Oh ! that is all. You don't know how
much it is, though.'

4 However much it may be, we will manage
to pay her,' said Margaret briskly.

1 This is dreadful! Why don't you call me
names? "Why do you heap coals of fire upon
my head? It's — well, it's five thousand pounds.'

Philip was staring intently at the ground
when he made this startling disclosure, and he
consequently did not see how Margaret's face
fell. Her voice was quite steady and cheerful
as she answered : —

'Five thousand pounds will not ruin me.

But how did you Never mind, though, if

you would rather not tell me. It is of no
consequence.'

c Meg, you are too good for this wicked
world. Of course I will tell you. It isn't very
creditable, but you will hardly expect it to be
that. I took to gambling for a time — Heaven
knows why ; I don't ! — and I had a run of the
most fearful luck ; and the long and short of it
was that I found myself all that sum to the bad,
and I couldn't pay. The woman tempted me,
and — I mean this good Signora Tommasini,
who is very nearly as foolish as you are, offered
to save me from disgrace and ruin, and I wasn't

so rude as to make her speak twice before I
replied. She said I was to pay her back when
I became a great singer and was earning a great
salary ; but '

i You could not remain under such an obligation
to a stranger interrupted Margaret
quickly.

Ah ! there it is. And yet I must be under
an obligation to somebody.'

There can be no question of obligations
between us, Philip. I simply do for you what
you would do for me if our positions were
reversed. I only wish you had applied to me,
instead of to her, in the first instance. But it
was very kind of her. I think I should like to
know that Signora Tommasini.'

■ I am not quite sure that you would ; she is
hardly in your line. But she is a dear, good
old thing, all the same ; and she has never
breathed a syllable about repayment, though I
dare say she wants the money as much as anybody
else. The first thing that I thought of
when I read those useless signatures in the
register at Sant' Onofrio was that I should be
able to wipe out my debt ; but that was not to
be, and ever since then I have been unable to
sleep at nights for thinking of it.'

Why did you not write and tell me ? '
asked Margaret reproachfully. ' You ought to

have known that I should never think twice
about giving you anything that you wanted, so
long as I had it to give.'

4 1 did know it ; but it was a case of robbing
Peter to pay Paul, you see ; and, little as you
might suppose it, Meg, I have still some feelings
of shame left. I couldn't bring myself to ask
you for more money ; so I lay awake, and
brooded over my sins. I suppose that nobody
can come to a realising sense of what a sinner
he is until he takes to lying awake at nights. It
was that lying awake that showed me how
abominably I had behaved to you, and how I
had deceived you ; and at last I could stand it
no longer. I resolved that I would strike while
the iron was hot, come straight home, and tell
you all about — about the other thing, you know.
And, having resolved upon that, it seemed best
to make a full confession of everything — as I
have done.'

Thus far, as regarded essentials, Philip's
veracity had been unimpeachable ; but he had
been guilty of a slight suppression of truth in
attributing his hurried departure from Florence
to the stings of an awakened conscience alone.
His suspicions with regard to the Signora had
deepened into something very like certainty as
the days had gone on. He had found himself
falling more and more under her sway. Her

good-humoured, authoritative trick of ordering
him to do this and that had extended itself to
matters of the smallest detail, and, favoured by
his indolence as well as by his sense of obligation,
had reached such a pitch that at last he
felt that he could hardly call his soul his own.
It seemed to him that he was in some sense the
Signora's property, and she treated him as if he
were so in every sense. Matters came to a
climax one evening when he was driving back
from the theatre with her, and when she asked
him in so many words whether he did not think
that it was much better for some men to marry
women older than themselves. The wretched
Philip stammered out an incoherent reply,
shrank back into his corner of the carriage in
mortal terror, and, as soon as he reached the
hotel, rushed upstairs, packed his belongings,
and fled the country precipitately. Such alarm
may seem a little exaggerated, but probably Philip
understood the danger of the situation better than
anybody else could do. He believed that the
Signora was capable of ordering him to marry
her, and he knew that, under sufficient stress,
he was capable of consenting to anything.

The wisdom of the step which he had taken
was at any rate amply justified by the event,
when he found himself sitting, with all his sins
confessed and forgiven, and his troubles as good

as over. Margaret's pardon had been so readily
accorded that he was encouraged to hope well
of his approaching interview with Nellie, albeit
much disinclined to walk over to Broom Leas
forthwith, as he was urged to do.

4 Oughtn't I have a night's rest first ? ' he
pleaded.

1 You will rest so much better when you
have done your duty. Why put off till tomorrow
what might be done to-day ? '

1 Why do to-day what might be put off till
tomorrow ? However, if I must, I must

Philip got up, sighed, and moved towards
the door ; but before he reached it, it was
thrown open, and Miss Brune herself walked
in.

Margaret and Philip exchanged quick
glances of dismay ; but the former was equal to
the occasion. She stepped forward, and kissed
Nellie, who had stopped short, with a cry of
surprise, on recognising the new arrival, and
' Here is somebody,' said she, ' whom you
would rather see than me, I think. I have
some letters to write, and I am going to the
drawing-room to write them. You can send
for me when you want me — or I should rather
say if you want me.'

But Nellie had seized Margaret by the arm,
and retained a firm grip of it. 'Please do not

go away, Mrs. Stanniforth,' she said. l It was
to see you that I came. I have had some very
disagreeable news.'

And then she looked pointedly at Philip,
with whom she had not shaken hands, and who
promptly made a move in the direction of the
door. I'll go,' he said ; c only will you tell me
one thing first : does this disagreeable news
relate in any way to me ? '

Nellie turned her eyes upon him. He did
not look at all like a whipped hound, as he
ought to have done. His face wore a slight
smile, a faint expression of curiosity, which may
have been genuine or assumed, but which in
either case would have sufficed to harden her
heart against him. ' Yes, it does,' she answered
shortly.

Margaret glanced apprehensively from one
to the other, and caught the girl by both hands.
1 Oh, Nellie ! ' she exclaimed, ' I think we know
it all already. It's about somebody who — who
is dead, is it not? And Philip has come back
on purpose to tell you everything, and to say
how sorry he is. You won't judge him until
you have heard him, will you ? '

c He can have nothing to say that I should
care to hear answered Nellie ; ; and I dare say
he will be glad that somebody else has spared
him the trouble of an explanation

I have my dear friend Colonel Kenyon to
thank for this,' muttered Philip.

It was Walter who wrote to me,' said
Nellie, ' if that makes any difference. I came
here to tell Mrs. Stanniforth that of course our
engagement must be at an end. There is
nothing more to be said that I knoAV of.'

But Margaret thought that there was a great
deal more to be said. c Dear Nellie,' she began,
don't be hasty. It is quite natural that you
should be angry '

4 1 am not angry at all ; it is not worth being
angry about,' declared Nellie, who was very
angry indeed. c I am glad I found out in time,
that is all.'

He was just going to Broom Leas to tell
you.'

Because he could not help himself. He
told you why he had gone to Florence when he
could not conceal it any longer.'

1 That has all come to nothing,' said Margaret
quickly.

Of course it has come to nothing ; I did
not believe the story for a moment. And now
the engagement to which I ought never to have
consented has come to nothing too. I hope I
shall never hear the subject mentioned again in
my life.'

Margaret was still holding Nellie's hands, as

if in that way she could obtain control over a
will stronger than her own. She threw an
imploring glance at Philip, who was leaning
back against the mantelpiece, with his hands in
his pockets, and who merely raised his eyebrows,
drew down the corners of his mouth, and
shrugged his shoulders in answer to her appeal.
It was evident that he had no intention of
fighting his own battle ; so she had to go on
£>htino; it for him.

Nellie,' she pleaded, ' we must all forgive
sometimes. I know you have a great deal to
forgive ; but for your own sake, as well as his,
you must try.'

1 Oh,' answered Nellie, with a short laugh, ' I
shall be able to forgive him without trying very
much. There are some people to whom one
forgives anything and everything, because '

c Because one loves them,' broke in Margaret
eagerly.

c No ; because But I won't say what

I was going to say ; and I won't pretend that I
can quite forgive Philip yet. It is not so easy to
forgive an insult as an injury. If only I can
avoid seeing him for a few months, I have no
doubt I shall be able to like him again as well as
I ever did.'

Oh, Nellie ! ' murmured Margaret, with her
eyes full of tears.

Dear Mrs. Stanniforth, don't cry ! ' exclaimed
the girl, softening suddenly ; c he is not
worth it — I mean we are not worth it ; and I
can't bear to hurt you. I haven't been quite
honest about this ; I should have broken off the
engagement in any case. Perhaps, as you say, I
should have forgiven Philip at once, if I had loved
him ; but I don't love him, and I never have. I
did try — no one knows how I tried — but I was
perfectly miserable the whole time ; and it was
such a relief when he went away ! I knew then
that I never could really marry him ; and I suppose
that I ought to have said so. This morning
when Walter's letter came, I felt as if I had
been reprieved from a sentence of death. You
see how impossible it would have been for me
to do as you wished.'

This was not very pleasant hearing for our
irresistible friend in the background, who had
been a great deal more mortified and crestfallen
throughout than he had chosen to appear.


After that,' said he, 'I think the best thing
I can do is to retire gracefully.' And he was
out of the room before Margaret could say a
word to stop him.

1 How glad I am he is gone ! ' exclaimed
Nellie.

But Margaret sighed, ' Poor Philip ! oh,

poor fellow ! It was cruel of you to speak of
him like that when he was still in the room.'

To this Nellie made no real) T ; and indeed it
must be confessed that, during the remainder of
the interview between the two ladies, the
younger displayed a great deal more forbearance
than did the elder. To be magnanimous was,
perhaps, easier for Nellie, who had an excellent
case, than for Margaret, who had no case at all;
but it is somewhat trying to a proud and quick-tempered
girl that her magnanimity should meet
with no recognition. More than once Nellie
was upon the point of making a sharp retort ;
but she bit her lips and kept silence, knowing-how
severe was the disappointment which had
fallen upon the kindest of her friends, and
feeling that her own conduct in this matter had
not been quite as straightforward as it might
have been.

What can I say ? ' she exclaimed at length.
1 1 think Philip insulted me by coming straight
down here from his wife's deathbed, and asking
me to marry him ; I suppose anybody would
consider that an insult. But I don't want to
convince you that he has behaved badly ; and
I'm afraid you can't convince me that he has
not. The best way is to say no more about it.
Even if Philip had been able to prove to us that
all this was a calumny, and that he had never

Lad a wife, I still could not have married him.
I understand now that I never could have cared
for him as one ought to care for one's husband. '

4 It is rather hard upon him that you should
not have found that out before you accepted him
said Margaret.

Nellie did not remind her critic of the doubts
which had been made light of in that very room
at the time alluded to, nor did she quote certain
words of Margaret's which remained very vividly
in her memory. ' I am quite willing to take
my share of the blame, if there is to be any
blame,' she said humbly; ' but if I had consulted
you, you could not have advised me to do anything
else than break off the engagement, now
that I know for certain that I don't love him.'

This was unanswerable, and Margaret felt it
to be so ; yet she was not altogether silenced.
She went on fighting, though she knew that the
battle was lost ; and Nellie listened patiently
and sadly. There came a moment when the two
women were very near quarrelling for the first
time in their lives ; but that passed away. One
of them was too sweet-tempered to allow matters
to come to such extremities, and the other was
too keenly alive to the pity of their falling out
over so unworthy an object. They parted at
last with tears and embraces, but with a cloud
between them of which both were conscious.

The cause of the strife, meanwhile, was
walking about the garden, trying to pluck up
his spirits, which declined to answer to the spur.
He could not brave the thins: out. If Nellie had
wished to punish him, she had discovered the
right way to do so. The loss of her love was a
real misfortune to hin, but for the moment the
loss of her respect seemed an infinitely greater
one, It had often happened to him to speak and
think of himself contemptuously ; but that was
a very different thing from hearing himself contemptuously
spoken of by others. Nellie had
told him in the plainest of language that she
despised him ; and he could not help seeing that
Margaret, without being herself in the least aware
of it, despised him too. He had no feeling of
anger against either one of them ; but he did feel
exceedingly uncomfortable and horribly humiliated.
Under the circumstances, there was but
one thing to be done: he must get away with all
possible despatch from the scene of such painful
experiences. He would go up to London, he
thought, and place himself in Steinberger's hands
once more, and court oblivion ; which, to be sure,
never needed much wooing on his part. And
then he thought of the five thousand pounds
which he would soon be able to pay to Signora
Tommasini's bankers, and that consoled him a
little.

VOL. III. H

• After a long time Margaret came out of the
house with red eyes, and walked quickly across
the grass towards him.

1 Well, Meg,' he said smiling, as he passed
his arm through hers, ' so it's all over. Confession
made, but absolution deferred ; isn't that
the way Mr. Langley would put it ? '

You know that if you needed any absolution
from me, you had it at the first moment,' she
answered ; c but that is not what you want, my
poor boy. It is not against me that you have
offended — if you have offended. And I can do
nothing for you.'

Do you call fie thousand pounds nothing?'


Oh, that,' said Margaret, who had entirely
forgotten this trifling detail in the more serious
trouble that had overtaken them both, ' that is
easily provided. But, Philip dear, I can give you
no hope about Nellie. I have done all that I
could do, and it has been quite useless I am so
very, very sorry.'

4 What a dear old thing you are ! But you
mustn't be sorry, Meg; it can't be helped. It
is a bitter pill ; let us swallow it down and make
no faces.'

4 It seems heartless to try and comfort you,'
said Margaret presently ; c still there always is
comfort — for a man. You will find interests in

the world — occupations — plenty of things to
divert your thoughts from the one subject.'

I think it quite possible that I may
answered Philip gravely. ' And I must really
be setting to work again in earnest now he
added, after a pause.

4 At the law, do you mean ? '

1 I am afraid it would be a long time before
Hobson and Hobson would give me a brief.
No ; I have only the one talent, and I must not
bury it. Duty points to London and Herr
Steinberger and scales, Meg.'

1 But you told me that you really did not
like the idea of going on the stage objected
Margaret, looking up at him with eyes full of

pity

am not sure that I do like it ; but I intend
heroically to lump it. I don't know what
Steinberger will say to me, I'm sure ; but I
haven't altogether wasted my time at Florence,
and perhaps he may allow me to try my wings
by a little preliminary flight before the season is
over. Anyhow, I ought not to put off seeing
him any longer than I can help. Do you still
rise with the lark to attend divine service, Meg?
If you do, you may catch a glimpse of me before
I start tomorrow morning

1 Couldn't you stay just a few days with me,
Philip?'

H 2

4 Do you think it would be wise? When one
has been kicked downstairs, one looks rather
foolish if one persists in sitting upon the doorstep.'


6 1 wish you would not say such things.

You have not been treated in that way at all.'

Not by you ; but I have been kicked, all
the same ; and I feel uncommonly foolish. I
really couldn't stay here, Meg. If there were
nothing else to drive me away, the commiseration
of Mrs. Prosser would be enough in itself. Give
a man time to recover his self-conceit a little.'

It is just possible,' said Margaret after a few
minutes, ' that I may not be here myself much
longer. I am rather thinking of letting Long-bourne
for a time.'

Letting Longbourne ! ' ejaculated Philip.
Since when have you taken that notion into
your head ? '

c Oh, I have been thinking of it for a longtime.
I really want a change, and '

Meg, I don't believe a word of it ! ' exclaimed
Philip, interrupting her. ' You never
dreamt of letting Longbourne before this afternoon
; and you want to cut down so as to be
able to find me that money. But I'm not going
to take it. Merciful heavens ! I am not quite
such a despicable fellow as that yet — whatever
Nellie may think of me. I may have earned as

much as that for myself before another year is
out — who knows? But I'd rather go to the
Jews for it than that you should be deprived of
a single comfort.'

1 Pray, pray don't do that, Philip ! ' cried
Margaret in great alarm. ' I don't know much
about money-lenders, but everybody says that
when once you get into their hands, you are
never free again. Promise me that, whatever
happens, you will have nothing to do with
them ! '

'All right,' answered Philip, laughing ; ' I'll
promise. The more willingly as I very much
doubt whether they would have anything to do
with me.'

Thus reassured, Margaret was able to join in
his laughter, and to add : ' Your self-conceit, as
you call it, must be coming back to you already if
you think I am going to cut down my establishment
to pay your debts. What is five thousand
pounds to me ? Nothing ! I want to get away
from Longbourne for many reasons. It is lonely
now, and I am tired of it ; and my mother is
ill again, and will have to spend the summer in
Germany most likely. Perhaps I shall join her
there. Altogether, I don't know when I may
have so good an opportunity again for escaping
from all my chains for a time.'

Jf this pious fraud was confessed to Mr.

Langley on the following day, it may be hoped
that he was not too hard upon its perpetrator.
To raise a sum of five thousand pounds, over
and above her current expenses, would have been
at this time as impossible a feat for Margaret as
for Philip himself to perform. She was indeed
able to hand over a cheque for the required
amount ; but, having clone so, it would have
been out of her power to continue her present
rate of living without considerably overdrawing
her account before the end of the quarter. The
only solution that suggested itself to her was to
strike out the item of personal expenditure altogether
from the budget ; and no sooner had she
seen Philip drive away from the door with his
cheque in his pocket, than she took prompt
measures to carry out this plan. She gave orders
to the astonished Prosser to pay off and dismiss
her staff of underlings forthwith ; she wrote
the necessary instructions to the house-agents
in London ; and then set out with a light heart,
to walk down to the Rectory, having a certain
proposition to make which she had reason to
hope would be favourably looked upon there.

CHAPTER XXX.

A FIASCO.

The hall table of the little house in Park Street
was almost concealed beneath the shoal of cards
and notes that were laid upon it every day, for
Mrs. Winnington had never in her life let slip
an opportunity of making a useful acquaintance,
and was unwearied in her pursuit of such acquaintances
when made. It may seem somewhat
strange, therefore, that Edith, who could have
procured half a dozen invitations to balls for
"Walter in the course of a week, should have put
herself to considerable pains to get him asked to
a private concert, a class of entertainment which
affords few facilities for uninterrupted conversation.
Edith, however, had her reasons for adopting
this course. She wanted very much to meet
Walter again, but she did not at all want to
meet him in such a manner as she had done at
Travers House. He frightened her with his
downright ways ; she saw that, if he were to
find himself for five minutes alone with her, he

would infallibly make a demand to which she
could return but one answer, and that then he
would go away in a huff, and the breach between
them would be complete. But at Lady Cecilia
Caroll' s she would be able to talk to him with
a pleasant feeling of security against any foolish
outbreak on his part.

Lady Cecilia's concerts were rather solemn
functions. ' A concert,' that lady was wont to
sa 7- , ' should be a concert. I don't ask people to
my house to chatter and giggle, and sit on the
stairs, and talk through the songs. What I
wish is to give them an opportunity of hearing
the best music and the best singers in a comfortable
room with comfortable chairs in it. I only
ask those who understand music ; and not many of
them, for I won't have a crowd.' The boast was
not always a truthful one, for it is certain that
a large proportion of the favoured guests knew
no more of music than they did of the Chinese
language ; but that part of it which related to
the comfort of the rooms and the excellence of
the performers was justified by facts, and Lady
Cecilia's invitations were alway eagerly sought
after — perhaps because it is a part of human
nature to desire anything that is difficult to
obtain : perhaps because, as she herself would
say, with a sardonic grin, ' People will go a
long way to hear for nothing what they would

have to pay two or three guineas to hear elsewhere.'


Walter, who very excusably thought that a
private concert and a musical party meant
much the same thing, and who had found out
that punctuality is not practised in London
society, arrived rather late on the evening to
which he had been looking forward with so
much anxiety, and was surprised to find that
he would not be permitted to enter the room in
which the company were assembled before the
conclusion of a fantasia upon the harp, of which
the subdued tinkling could be heard through
closed doors. He waited outside, at the top of
the staircase, in company with some other
tardy guests, until the doors were thrown open,
and then entered a long, dimly-lighted room
full of people, who had very much the appearance
of being in church. They were seated,
with their backs turned towards him, upon
rows of arm-chairs ; and at the far end of the
room was a sort of stage, occupied at present by
a grand piano, a harp, and a fat little harpist.

Walter did not know Lady Cecilia when he
saw her, and, as nobody advanced to welcome
him, he presumed that he did not see her now ;
but he soon descried what interested him a good
deal more, namely, the back of Edith's head
some few yards away from him. The poor

people who had been forced to sit still and
silent for the last ten minutes were indemnifying
themselves now by moving about and talking
their loudest. Walter pushed his way through
them with the ease which a man of his inches
and breadth of chest could command, and perceiving
to his great joy an empty chair beside
Edith's, unhesitatingly took possession of it.

Oh ! you have come ? ' said she, allowing
him to hold the tips of her fingers for a
moment.

c Of course I have come. You asked me,
didn't you? r

It was Lady Cecilia who asked you, I
suppose. But I am glad you have come, because
it is such a good concert.'

There was " E. W." in the corner of the
envelope, at all events,' said Walter. ' So it's a
good concert, is it? I don't know much about
music myself ; but '

Hash ! ' interrupted Edith in an agony ; for,
indeed, Tom Stanniforth was standing close by,
and Walter's voice was a loud one.

4 Why, what's the matter ? ' asked the astonished
culprit. l Have I said anything awful?'

Yes ; you mustn't say you don't know anything
about music. Everybody is supposed to
like music in this house.'

Oh, all right ! I'm glad you told me. I

should like anything so long as I was allowed
to sit here. It was awfully good of you to keep
a place for me.'

Oh, I couldn't have done that ! but you can
stay here for a little ; it is somebody else's
place.'

Then somebody else must drag me out by
the collar of my coat if he wants his place again.
Oh! how do you do, Lady Travers?'

You are very kind to notice me,' said Lady T
Travers. ' Perhaps, in order to avoid the scandal
of the police being called in, I had better
give you my place.' And she rose as she
spoke.

6 Oh, but, Lady Travers, upon my word !— I
couldn't think of such a thing. I was only
joking, I assure you,' protested Walter, quite
shocked.

i If you are really sure that you were only
joking, perhaps I may venture to return,' said
she ; ' but in the meantime you may as well
keep my chair for me. I want to speak to someone
on the other side of the room.'

Walter took her at her word ; and the first
thing that he did, after having effected this
change of position, was to whisper to Edith, 'And
who is Somebody Else ? '

4 Let me see— who was it ? Mr. Stanniforth, I
think,' she answered, somewhat disingenuously.

Now, in days gone by, Walter had guessed
enough of Mrs. Wilmington's designs to be aware
that Tom Stanniforth was a more or less dangerous
person; therefore his brow clouded over at
this careless announcement. But he remembered
his promise to Lady Travers, and only said, ' I
should like to see Mr. Stanniforth again. He
was a very good fellow.'

Yes ; I think he is very nice,' Edith
agreed hurriedly. l Have you heard from home
lately?'

I had a letter from Nell the other day. She
says it is dull work down there now that we are
all scattered to the four corners of the earth, and
only she and my father are left to count the
empty places. I suppose we shall never be all
together again as we were in the old days. Jolly
old days — oh dear ! '

I suppose you miss the cricket, and all
that?'

Exactly so — the cricket and all that. Do
you ever think of old times now? The new
times are better fun for you, aren't they?'

Edith sighed and looked down at her fan,
upon which was represented a group of impossi-
ably-costumed shepherds and shepherdesses dancing.
It was a chef-d'wuvre, painted upon parchment,
and signed by Watteau himself.

What a pretty old fan ! ' said Walter,

admiring the work of art, without suspecting its
value. ' Where did you pick it up? '

I don't know. That is, Mr. Stanniforth gave
it to me.'

'Mr. Stanniforth! What the dev — ahem!
Is it true that ladies accept all kinds of presents
from men nowadays ? '

I'm sure I don't know. One can't very
well refuse things if one's friends take the trouble
to ransack the curiosity-shops for them. I don't
care for rococo fans myself, and I should like to
hand this one over to Kate, who does ; only I
suppose that would look rather ungrateful. Oh !
they are going to begin again. How much
pleasant concerts would be if the music
could be left out ! We mustn't talk any more
now.'

4 Why, I haven't said a word to you yet ! '
exclaimed Walter in dismay. ' You don't mean
to say that Lady Travers is coming back ! '

No ; she is sitting down over there. What
is it going to be now? Not another instrumental
performance, I hope and trust. We
have had the harp ; that's one comfort.'

And are the flute, sackbut. and psaltery to
follow?' asked Walter, glancing over Edith's
shoulder at the programme which she held.
i No, — " duo, Signora Tommasini and Signor M."
Who's Signor M., I wonder ? '

Edith, who had raised her eyes to the dais
at the end of the room, was in a position to
answer the question. ' Oh, Walter, look ! ' she
exclaimed in astonished accents.

Walter looked, and gave vent to a low
whistle. ' By Jupiter ! ' he ejaculated under his
breath. ' AYho would have thought of his turning
up like this ? I wouldn't have written that
letter if I hadn't supposed he was safe in Italy.
Here's a pretty kettle of fish!'

But he gave no explanation of these muttering
in answer to Edith's inquiring glance, and
they both turned their eyes towards Philip,
standing with a roll of music in his hand beside
Signora Tommasini, who was all ablaze with
diamonds. It was Philip's first appearance in a
professional capacity ; it was the first occasion
on which he was to exhibit his talents and gifts
to an audience in consideration of something
more substantial than applause ; and this loss of
freedom may perhaps have deprived him of the
self-confidence which is so essential to success ;
for in one sense it is easier and far pleasant to
give away one's possessions than to sell them.
Be that as it may. he was visibly nervous. His
hands shook a little, his cheeks were rather pale,
and he looked as if he would have liked very
much to run away.

But Steinberger, with his legs tucked under his

music stool, was already punishing the piano; the
Signora had kicked out her train, hoisted up her
fat shoulders, and distorted her features into that
extraordinary grin which, for some inscrutable
reason, is held to be indispensable by all public
singers ; and Signer M. had to take up his
allotted burden and trudge, whether he would or
no.

He had still a few minutes in which to recover
himself. First, Signora Tommasini went
through some astonishing vocal exploits — ' letting
off a lot of fireworks,' as the ignorant
"Walter said ; then the two voices blended
harmoniously together for some bars ; and then
came the trying moment when Philip had to
interpret Donizetti alone and unaided. It was
no very formidable achievement that was required
of him ; but there was a certain high
note which would have to come out before he
had done ; and Philip felt an awful and sickening
conviction that come out it would not. And,
sure enough, it did not. There was an instant's
pause, during which the singer suffered the condensed
agonies of a lifetime ; then, in despair,
he expanded his lungs, and out came a note
which was loud enough, and clear enough for
anybody, but which, alas ! was not the note,

A quickly-repressed shudder shook the Signora's
whole person ; Steinberger made a horrible

face, bent over the keys, lifted his great hands
above his head, and brought them down with a
crash-bang which drowned all subsequent deficiencies,
and the performance came to an end without
further hitch.

Probably not more than one per cent, of the
audience knew that anything had gone wrong.
The young debutant had had a momentary
difficulty, but he had surmounted it at once ;
and his acquaintances, of whom there were a
great many among the company, were quite
ready to congratulate him upon his success. Buta
very different verdict was given by those whose
approval was of more importance.

1 Got in Simnel ! ' it was the yell of a wild
beast ! ' shouted Steinberger, who was in a furious
passion. c Make such another exhibition of
yourself, and I wash my hands of you. What
have I always toll you? Why must you run
off to Italy, and ruin your voice by exerting it
too soon? You are a hundred — thousand times
worse now as you were last year ! '

But Philip, apparently unmoved, laughed,
remarked ' Better luck next time,' and strolled
down into the room, where Edith was saying to
Walter, c Hasn't he improved wonderfully? I
had no idea he could sing like that. Do you
think he saw us ? '

I hope not,' answered Walter.

c Why do you hope not ? I thought you and
he used to be such friends.'

But Walter was not put to the necessity of
explaining himself, for the words had hardly
passed Edith's lips before Philip was shaking
hands with her.

c So you have come to hear my lamentable
breakdown,' said he.

What do you mean ? ' Edith asked, in all
sincerity. c I thought you sang splendidly.'

I wonder whether you say that out of
politeness, or whether your ears were really not
pierced by that awful sharp note. No one can
have suffered more acutely from it than I did
myself, if that's any consolation. Well, Walter,
old man, how are you? Here I am back again,
you see, and all the worse for my journey, Stein-bergen
tells me. I didn't know you had gone in
for frequenting the gay world.'

If Philip had been nervous upon the stage,
when there was really no reason for his being so,
he was quite at his ease now, and did not seem
to think that any of the events which had taken
place since Walter and he had parted need produce
a coolness between them. c How are things
in the City ? ' he went on. ; Old What's-his-name
hasn't died and left you all his money while
I've been away, has he ? '

6 No \ he's all right,' answered Walter, who,

VOL. III. I

for his part, was very obviously embarrassed and
uncomfortable. ' Have you only just returned?
I suppose you haven't been to Longbourne yet?
I just want to speak to somebody for a minute.
Back directly.' And Walter turned tail and
fled; nor did he return to Edith's side until he
had satisfied himself that Philip was at a safe
distance.

Never felt so small in my life,' he declared,
speaking afterwards of his behaviour upon this
occasion. i Knowing that, only a few days before,
I had sent off a letter robbing him of his character
behind his back, I couldn't sit there and pretend
to be as good friends with him as ever.
Nobody could. I simply had to make a bolt for
it.'

Meanwhile Philip, who had perfectly understood
the meaning of Walter's abrupt retreat,
and was not a little amused by it, had taken
possession of his friend's vacant place, and was
making polite inquiries after Mrs. Winnington.

1 Meg tells me she is down with the gout
again,' he said. 4 You really ought to impress
upon her the duty of taking more care of herself,
for all our sakes.'

4 You have been to Longbourne, then,' said
Edith. ' Of course you saw Nellie.'

I did. I may as well tell you that all is
over between Nellie and me. Don't try to look

distressed. You know that you think, as everybody
else does, except Meg, that she is well rid
of fine. At the same time, if you feel disposed
to admire my fortitude, I don't forbid you to do
so. In me, Edith, you see that sublime spectacle,
a good man struggling with adversity. By
a most unkind freak of fortune, I have failed to
establish my right to call myself Brune, and I
am by no means clear that I have not lost my old
name in the attempt. I return home in broken
spirits to be told by Nellie that, upon further
consideration, she finds that she never cared a
brass farthing for me. I come up to London,
and make a hideous fiasco of my first public
appearance. It now only remains for me to be
robbed and murdered on my way back to my
lonely lodging to-night, and the tale of woe will
be complete.'

'But is this really true, Philip? About
Nellie, I mean.'

It is too true. I am assuming a light tone,
you will understand, in order to conceal a deep
emotion. That also is true, though you don't
believe it. Ah, well ; let us talk about something
else. Here comes Mr. Stanniforth, looking the
benevolent legislator all over. I wonder whether
he could be induced to hatch a scheme for the
sustenance of unsuccessful public singers at the
national expense.'

i 2

Tom Stanniforth greeted Marescalchi withall
the cordiality that could have been expected
of him, and with considerably more than he felt.
He said : ' Everybody is prophesying a great
career for you. They tell me that we shall be
hearing you at Covent Garden before this time
next year.'

Everybody is very kind,' answered Philip;
4 but it is a mistake to prophesy, and especially
to fix dates. You can't go far wrong if you
foretell that the world is coming to an end; but
if you say it will come to an end in 1881, people
don't think much of you in 1882. I only wish
I were as sure of singing at Covent Garden
some day as you are of being returned for
Blackport at the next general election ; but
even that isn't an absolute certainty, I suppose.
Haven't you been proposing to lock up all
habitual drunkards, or something of that sort?
Some of your constituents must look upon that asa
rather uncalled-for interference with the amusements
of the sovereign people, I should think.'

That young man is — what shall I say? —
not very far removed from a conceited young
puppy,' remarked Mr. Stanniforth, with unusual
severity, as Philip lounged away. For the
truth was that the Habitual Drunkards Bill had
been very coldly looked upon both at Blackport
and in the House of Commons.

'Don't be too hard upon him,' said Edith;
4 he has had a great deal of disappointment lately,
and I don't think he is at all satisfied with the
way he sang to-night.'

1 Then,' said Tom, who perhaps would have
been more mollified if he could have conjectured
the nature of the disappointment alluded to, ' he
may do. If he is dissatisfied with himself, there
is hope for him. .Hitherto, I fancy, he has
rather come to grief from just the opposite cause.
It is very good of you to stick up for him,
though,' he added.

1 Oh, very,' said Edith, laughing. And then
Lady Travers came back, and asked what had
become of Walter.

Poor Walter, who had been watching his
love from afar, was at this moment making his
way back towards her in the hope of regaining
possession of the chair in which Lady Travers
had just sat down. She did not offer to cede it
to him a second time when he approached, nor
did Mr. Stanniforth display any inclination to
move; so, as he could not remain where he was,
without standing upon the toes of the people
behind him, he was presently forced to retreat
to the doorway, where he spent the rest of the
evening in a rueful mood.

A dishevelled violinist was in possession of
the dais, and continued in possession of it for a

very long time. Then Philip again came forward,
and sang a pathetic balled with much
effect, and shortly after that the proceedings
terminated. By dint of determination and
some exertion of physical force, Walter managed
to be on the doorstep at the right moment
to help Edith into her carriage ; but that was all
he got out of the opportunity which had been
provided for him with so much forethought,
and of which he had hoped such great things.
Taking it altogether, it had hardly been a successful
evening; and perhaps the only one of our
friends who had thoroughly enjoyed it was Tom
Stanniforth. He, having had a long talk with
Edith during the latter part of the time, had
found her so amiable and kind that he really
began to think he might be falling in love with
her at last ; and said to himself that, in any case,
he would not much longer postpone the offer
which he had now quite determined to make. .

Tom Stanniforth was so much a man of
business that, when he had formed a clear intention,
he was uneasy until he had executed it.
In this matter of his marriage he had silly
an unconscionably long time, because he
had not felt perfectly sure of his own wishes;
but now it seemed to him that he had done all
that was necessary in the way of preliminaries,
and that it would be well to get the whole

business settled and done with, so that lie might
be able to devote his whole mind to habitual
drunkenness for the remainder of the session.

So the very next morning he betook himself
to Park Street ; and his air, as he marched into
the little drawing-room, was so plainly that of a
man with a purpose, that Edith knew quite well
what had brought him there before he opened
his lips.

As soon as he had made the inquiries which
politeness demanded, and had expressed his
grief at hearing that Mrs. Winnington was still
in a good deal of pain, he wasted no more time
in beating about the bush, but went straight to
the point.

i 1 don't know whether you have guessed
what has made me call at this unusual hour, Miss
Winnington.'

Miss Winnington couldn't imagine.

'Well, I came because I hoped to find you
alone, and because I wanted to speak to you upon
a subject of great importance— of great importance
to me, I mean. I think you must know
already what my wishes are, and sometimes I
have ventured to hope that you might not consider
me too old and ugly to make a passable
husband. I certainly have no reason to flatter
myself that you are what is called in love with
me; but the longer I live the more I become

convinced that happy marriages do not depend
upon there being love on both sides.'

4 You think there ought to be love on one
side, then ? '

Mr. Stanniforth, whose countenance wore
the smiling and complacent expression which it
was wont to assume in the House of Commons
after he had disposed of a difficulty, replied that
he would not go so far as to assert even that.
Which rather took the wind out of Edith's
sails.

4 You look very much pleased with yourself,'
she was provoked into exclaiming. 4 Are you
much in the habit of proposing to people, that
you know so well how to put your case ? '

4 I suppose no man has had less practice at
that kind of thing than I have,' answered Tom,
still radiant. For, indeed, it seemed to him
that he had put the case very neatly and concisely.


4 Have you never proposed to anybody
before ? '

Mr. Stanniforth made no answer, but looked
down and smiled, as if he thought the question
was hardly a fair one.

Thereupon the pitiless Edith repeated it,
and he was obliged to speak.

4 Well, if you insist upon my telling you,' he
said, 4 1 have. Only once, though.'

A FIASCO. 121

Dear me ! only once ? And that was long

?'

Oh, come, Miss Wilmington, I don't think
we need go into dates ! If you'll take me, such
as I am, you shall ask me what you please afterwards,
and I'll promise to answer you truthfully.
Only, don't you think it is much better to let
bygones be bygones?'

4 Oh ! if you are sure that they are bygones

But, Mr. Stanniforth, I must ask you just

one more question: what makes you ask me to
merry you at all ? '

4 My dear Miss Wilmington, what reason
could I have but one ? '

Do you mean me to understand, then, that
you are in love with me ? '

The timid Edith's composure of tone was
not a little disconcerting to Mr. Stanniforth,
who now behaved in a manner inconsistent with
his whole past history by taking refuge in prevarication.
' Should I have been here if it were
not so? ' he asked reproachfully.

And you are certain that you are not in
love with anybody else ? '

'Anybody else? I don't quite understand.
Why, it stands to reason, you know — how could
I be?'

1 Oh, Mr. Stanniforth, what a poor actor you
are ! Do you remember how badly you did your

part in those theatricals at Longbourne ? I can't
pretend to be a very good actress myself; if I
had been, I should have accepted you first, and
told you something afterwards which would have
made you wish you were dead.'

My dear Miss Winnington ! '

c I really should — unprincipled as it might
have been. But now, if I do you a good turn
by refusing you, will you do something forme?
'

Tom rubbed his head doubtfully, for he not
unnaturally conjectured that Edith contemplated
eloping with a detrimental, and was going to ask
for his assistance in the matter.

4 1 hope you won't think me over cautious,'
he answered, ' if I say that I hate making promises
in the dark. I should be only too glad to
be of use to you in any way, Miss Winnington ;
but I'm afraid I couldn't help you to do anything
that — that might seem to me likely to bring you
unhappiness.'

Don't be alarmed,' said Edith ; ' it is nothing
very out-of-the-way that I want you to do forme.
It is only' — and here she also began to
show signals of distress — ' it is only to behave
as if — that is, not to mention to my mother that
I have refused you, for a few weeks — just till the
end of the season.'

c Oh, I'll promise that ! ' answered Tom

cheerfully, understanding well enough the
reason of the request; 'and I only hope that,
before the end of the season, some more worthy
man may stand where I hoped to have stood. I
won't say anything about my own disappointment.'


'No; I don't think I would, if I were you
said Edith drily. ' And now let me tell you
that it is all over between Philip and Nellie. I
heard it from Philip himself last night; his own
words were that she had told him she had never
cared a farthing for him. And I can't help
thinking it might be worth your while to try
again with the lady to whom you proposed at an
unknown date.'

CHAPTER XXXI.

TOM STANNIEORTH GIVES SOME TROUBLE.

More soothing than paregoric, more invigorating
than all the waters of Vichy, Homburg, and
Kissing, were the deep tones of a man's voice,
ascending from below, to Mrs. Winnington, as
she lay outstretched upon the sofa to which her
old enemy had pinned her down. For no less
than an hour and a half had Mr. Stanniforth
been in the drawing-room with Edith, and still
he was talking on. as if he never meant to go
away. In a certain sense he never would go
away ; Mrs. Winnington was quite sure of that.
She knew very well that there is but one errand
which can excuse a man for presenting himself
directly after breakfast and staying until the
luncheon hour is at hand ; and although for
some time past she had been in little doubt as
to Mr. Stanniforth's intentions, she was too well
acquainted with the slippery ways of men to be
thoroughly comfortable so long as the fatal words
remained still unspoken. Certain it was that they

had been spoken now; and Mrs. Winnington,
despite the horrible throbbing of her foot, smiled
with the seraphic smile of a martyr at the stake.

The long struggle was over, then ! There
need be no more scheming and plotting, no more
grateful accepting of invitations ungraciously
given, no more flattering of dull-witted men, no
more ignoring of the sneers of insolent women;
no more painful eating of dirt, in short. Henceforth
there would be a quiet sunset time of peace,
in which the weary combatant might lay down
her arms — not thankfully after so many and
great labours ; a time which might be devoted a
little more to thoughts of that long rest which
could not now be very many years distant, and
which hitherto there had not been much leisure
to contemplate, except during a portion of Sunday
morning.

It was thus that Mrs. Winnington sang her
Nunc Dimittis, little guessing of the infamous
projects which were being concocted beneath
her feet. The worst part of her attack was
over, as she knew ; the enemy was retreating
after his usual fashion, with an occasional savage
onslaught to show that he had not yet quitted
the field; and at such times Mrs. Winnington
always felt in a low and chastened frame of mind.
She was a woman of no small courage and endurance,
caring little for pain, and fighting it, as

she always fought, with a stubborn determination
not to give in; but when the pain began to go,
her spirits also began to droop; and just now
she felt very old and tired and inclined for rest.
Had she been in her usual health, she would
probably have at once set to work to torment
herself with doubts as to whether she might not
have made a more brilliant capture than that of
Tom Stanniforth, but now she was disposed to
give thanks for what she had got. Tom Tannin
was not only a very rich man already, but
would on his father's death become one of the
richest commoners in England; and nowadays
wealth was a more important thing than title.
Besides, there was no reason why the one should
not lead to the other. It was a pity, in someways,
that he should be a Radical; but if the
Radicals were to govern the country for the next
twenty years, as everybody said they were sure
to do, they would want to be better represented
in the Upper House than they were at present ;
and so opportunity might come to the wealthy
and deserving. And when Mrs. Winnington reflected
that it was within the range of possibility
that these Democrats might solve the question
by sweeping away the hereditary branch
of the Legislature altogether, she breathed an
ardent prayer for the preservation of that
bulwark of the Constitution.

One can't think of everything ; otherwise
Edith might have remembered that her prolonged
interview with Mr. Stanniforth could not
fail to be commented upon, and to be productive
of some embarrassment to her in the near future.
This detail had escaped her while she indulged
in pardonable exultation over her own adroitness
and her acquisition of a staunch and devoted
friend. That Tom Stanniforth meant to prove
himself such a friend he assured her again and
again. Nothing could exceed his gratitude,
unless it were his profound admiration of the insight
which had enabled her to discover what he
did not really know himself. He had quite
given up thinking about Nellie for a long time,
he declared. Well, he had given up thinking of
her in that way, at all events ; and as for hope,
he had abandoned all shadow of that from the
very first. Even now he could hardly believe
and so forth, and so forth. It is not necessary
to give a full report of all the puerilities uttered
on this occasion by one who, through a long
career of public usefulness, has ever been held to
possess a stock of common sense above the average.
Did Miss Wilmington really think there could
be a chance for him ? he asked (for about the
twentieth time). Would it be a good plan, now,
if he were just to run down to Longbourne from
Saturday to Monday, and see how the land lay ?

Miss Wilmington did not think that would
be a good plan at all. i I know exactly what
you would do,' she said. ' If you saw her, you
would march straight up to her and repeat your
offer in a money-or-your-life sort of tone, just like
like so many other matter-of-fact people.
And then, of course, she would refuse you again.
Nellie is a great deal too proud to throw over
one man and accept another almost in the same
breath.'

Yes ; there's that, certainly. I didn't think
of that.'

'And, besides, aren't you rather forgetting
your promise to me ? '

1 Dear me ! yes, to be sure ! I do wish, Miss
Wilmington, that there was somebody whom you
wanted to marry, and that there was a difficulty
about it, so that I might be of some assistance to
you.'

1 You are very kind,' said Edith, laughing ;
4 but my ambition, you see, is to remain single,
and there is a difficulty about that which you
can assist me to overcome.'

Just so. Well, you may rely upon me todo
my best. Only, you know, that kind of
deception can't be kept up very long.'

4 Sufficient unto the season is the evil
thereof,' said Edith. And then she began talking
about Nellie again, until three loud

raps overhead caused her to start and turn
pale.

c Oh, do look at the clock! ' she exclaimed
in dismay. c I must go up to my mother at once.'
And she hurried her visitor away.

There was no more humane man in England
than the member for Blackport ; but, as he
walked down the street, he could not help thinking
to himself that it would be a blessed thing
if the gout were to remove Mrs. Wilmington to
another sphere of activity.

No such summary interposition on the part of
Providence took place; and when Mr. Stanniforth
called in Park Street two days later, in order to
consult Edith upon a certain subject, he not only
found her, but also her mother, in the drawing-room.
It is to be supposed that Edith had contrived,
by some stratagems, to evade the anxious
lady's queries and to still her misgivings ; for
Mrs. Wilmington held out her hand with the
sweetest of smiles, saying:

4 You will excuse my not getting up to
receive you. I am still a cripple, you see.'

1 But no longer a prisoner,' observed Tom.
Oh! you're round the corner now; you'll soon
be all right again,' he added, encouragingly.

It is only a question of time,' replied Mrs.
Winnington, who had not shaken off the depression
of convalescence. 'A few more attacks

VOL. III. K

like this, and there will be an end of me — and
it will be just as well so. We all of us have a
mission to accomplish, Mr. Stanniforth, and,
when once it is accomplished, the sooner we get
out of other people's way the better. I wish I
could feel that I had accomplished mine ! '

Not being quite sure of the nature of the
mission referred to, and fearing that the subject,
if pursued, might develop itself into a perilous
one, Tom made haste to change it.

Do you know,' he asked, ' that Longbourne
is to be let?'

Mrs. Wilmington clasped her hands, let
them fall upon her knees, closed her eyes, and
nodded a great many times, as signifying that
she could say a good deal, but, for charitable
reasons, abstained from doing soi

I never was so astonished in my life,' Tom
went on. ' I was walking down Oxford Street
yesterday afternoon, when I happened to glance
into a house-agent's window; and there, as large
as life, was a photograph of Longbourne. It is
to be let for a year or more, they told me. What
is the reason of it ? '

Ah ! ' answered Mrs. Winnington, after
more dumb show, ' you may well ask the reason
of it. I don't know. Poor dear Margaret ! she
really is so very extraordinary. I have had a
letter from her, giving a sort of explanation of

the step which she has seen fit to take. I cannot
say that it is a satisfactory explanation to
my mind, but of course she is mistress of her
own actions.'

1 She is not — not 2foin^ to be married, is she?'
asked Tom hesitatingly.

4 Oh no ! it is not so bad — not so serious, I
mean — as that. But it seems that Mr. Langley
a most excellent man, but rather too extreme
in his views — has been putting notions into her
head ; and now she wants to go into a sort of
retreat for several months. She is rather
mysterious about it, but I imagine that she is
thinking of entering some sisterhood for a time:
she always had a leaning towards that kind of
life. She gives me no address, and her letters
are to be sent to Longbourne Rectory. Why she
should have thought it necessary to let her house
I cannot understand.'

4 But can't you induce her to reconsider her
decision? ' asked Tom, to whom this explanation
seemed even less satisfactory than it had done
to Mrs. Winnington. ' People really ought not
to be allowed to disappear in that way ; one can't
tell what may happen to them. There must be
something under all this that you don't know
of.'

Mrs. "Winnington shrugged her shoulders
and spread out her hands. ; I have protested,'

K 2

said she ; ' I can't do more. Speaking quite
frankly, as between relatives, I must say that I
think a little more consideration might have
been shown for me. As you know, I have
made my home with Margaret for many years,
not wishing that she should be left quite alone;
and the result of her acting in this precipitate
manner is that in a very short time I shall find
myself without a home to go to. Fortunately,
it so happens that my health will oblige me to
spend the summer in Germany and Switzerland ;
but after that I really don't know what is to
become of us. It is not so easy to find a house
and furnish it in such a hurry, and I do think
dear Margaret might have considered that.'

But what does she propose doing herself?
She doesn't intend to remain in retreat all that
time, I presume ? '

'No; she speaks of joining me in the course
of the summer or autumn, and of our spending
the winter together somewhere abroad ; but it
never seems to occur to dear Margaret that I
may have plans and engagements of my own.
By the bye, what do you think of doing this
year?'

I? Oh, I haven't formed any plan as yet ! '
answered Mr. Stanniforth, looking a little guilty ;
for the truth was that he had a plan in his head,
and had called in Park Street for the express

purpose of taking Edith's opinion with reference
to it. 'I haven't decided upon anything definitely,
at least,' he added, by way of quieting
his conscience. And then, turning to Edith,
4 Shall you be at the Botanical Fete this afternoon,
Miss Winnington ? ' he asked.

'Kate offered to take me,' answered Edith;
4 but I am not sure that I shall go. It is so
hot.'

This was not very honest on the part of
Edith, who had private reasons for fully intending
to be present at the show in question ; but
when one has more than one intrigue in hand,
the threads are apt to become inconveniently
mixed, and it did not suit her purpose that
Mr. Stanniforth should be there too.

4 You must certainly go, Edith,' said her
mother with decision. ' It is not at all too hot,
and I shall trust to Mr. Stanniforth to find you
a seat in the shade. I suppose you are going,
Mr. Stanniforth?'

Tom looked at Edith, who made a face at
him, which he did not understand. He wanted
to have a little conversation with her, and this
opportunity seemed as good a one as another.

4 I'll go, if you'll go,' said he, flattering
himself that he was playing his part very
cleverly.

Edith could only answer, 4 Oh, very well!'

but she did manage, while shaking hands with
her visitor, to whisper, ' How stupid you are ! '
which sent him away much disconcerted.

It was Lady Travers who had written a line
to Walter, telling him to be at the Botanical
Gardens that afternoon, and who had afterwards
mentioned to Edith what she had done. The
latter had received this intelligence with a
proper amount of outward indifference, but
with inward satisfaction ; for she foresaw the approaching
day when Mrs. Wilmington would once
more have the full use of her lower limbs ; and
when that day came, there would be a difficulty
in arranging meetings with Walter, if, indeed,
such meetings did not have to cease altogether.
It was, therefore, excessively tiresome that Mr.
Stanniforth should have declared his intention
of joining himself on to the party; but Edith
consoled herself with the hope that Walter
might not be able to get away from the City
until late in the afternoon, before which time
she thought she could contrive to give her other
friend a hint to take himself off.

Fortune, apparently, was on her side ; for
when she and her sister drove up to the entrance
of the gardens no Walter was in sight. Mr.
Stanniforth, however, was waiting patiently for
them in a beautifully fitting suit of clothes,
with a glossy hat, and a flower in his button-hole.

Has anybody noticed the characteristic circumstance
that a good Conservative takes instinctively
to the wearing of old coats after a certain
time of life, whereas your Radical is always
a smartly-dressed man ? Tom, brilliant and
beaming, advanced to meet the ladies ; and
presently, Lady Travers having stopped to
speak to an acquaintance, he led Edith out of the
crowd to a comparatively sequestered spot,
behind a clump of rhododendrons, where two
chairs had been left, as if on purpose for
them.

Q I am afraid,' he began at once, ' that I made
some mistake this morning. why did you call
me stupid ? '

c Why did you insist on dragging me hereon
such a broiling afternoon?' returned Edith.
You are not at all quick in seeing what people
want, do you know.'

1 You didn't strive me a chance of seeing*
until it was too late; and really I don't call it
hot at all. But, to be perfectly honest, I believe
I was thinking rather of what I wanted myself
than of what you wanted. Since yesterday I
have been turning over in my mind a project
which has occurred to me, but I would not take
any steps before consulting you; and that was
really why I hoped I might see you this afternoon.
I humbly apologise for my selfishness.'

1 It is of no consequence,' answered Edith.
1 What is your project? '

It is about Longbourne. How would it be
if I were to take the place, and spend the summer
there ? In that way, you see, I should be living
near her, and I might do things by degrees, as
you suggested. On thinking it over, I quite
agree with you that hurry would be fatal. It
strikes me also that the arrangement might bea
convenient one in some ways for Margaret.'

Edith laughed. ' I think everybody would
know pretty well what brought you,' she said.
4 Bachelors don't usually take large country-houses
for the summer.'

But I'm not exactly like the general run of
bachelors. I have a large country-house of my
own in Staffordshire.'

4 Which you never inhabit. That seems
rather an odd reason for taking another one.'

4 Oh ! well, it is impossible to round things
off with such absolute neatness; one can't create
exactly the situation that one requires. Even
supposing that she did guess why I was at Long-bourne,
it wouldn't so much matter. I should
be very humble and meek, and never go over to
Broom Leas unless I were asked. I really think
the thing might be worked so as to give it an
air of probability. Margaret wants to go abroad,
but doesn't care to leave her house in the hands

TOM STAXXIFORTH GIVES SOME TROUBLE. 137

of a stranger ; I agree to look after the place in
her absence ; nobody need know even that I pay
rent for it — don't you see? Why shouldn't I
wish to have a house in the country as much as
anybody else? Perhaps the air of Staffordshire
doesn't agree with me. And of course I shall
have people down to stay. I had a hope that I
might induce you and vo ur mother to honour
me so far.'

4 Oh, that would never do! ' exclaimed Edith
hastily. But after a minute she began to think
that it might do rather well. c I wish we could,'
she said wistfully; ' but unfortunately we shall beat
those horrid German baths all the summer.'

1 Then why not come in September or
October? Mrs. Wilmington said she would be
puzzled to know what to do with herself at that
time.'

1 It certainly would not be pleasant in
London just then. I suppose the whole world
turns out of London during those two months,
doesn't it? Everybody has a holiday — members
of parliament, and merchants, and bankers, and
shopkeepers, and all.'

I don't know about everybody,' answered
Tom, laughing ; ' the bankers and merchants
give themselves a holiday, no doubt.'

And then do they shut up their banks and
places ? '

Not as a rule ; but the banks and places
get on very well without them.'

The poor clerks stay and do the work, I
suppose. How hard that seems ! '

Oh ! they all get their month at one time
or another, I take it. But about my plan: you
think I may venture to write to Margaret, then ?
And you'll try and persuade your mother to pay
me a visit in the autumn ? '

Edith, who was wondering, at that moment,
whether Mr. Boulger's slaves were allowed to
choose their own time for absenting themselves,
answered somewhat irrelevantly, ' The question
is whether September would be the month.'

4 Oh ! September, or October, or November,
any time that suited you best. The only thing
is, Miss Wilmington,' continued Tom, with a
graver face and some hesitation of speech, ' that
by that time I am afraid — or perhaps I ought
rather to say that I hope — and yet I have no
business to hope. What I mean is that I don't
see how it would be possible to keep your

mother in the dark so long as to — to ' Tom

left his sentence unfinished, for, although he
quite understood the part that Edith wished
him to play, it was a little awkward to allude
to it in plain language.

■ Our agreement was only to hold good upto
the end of the season, you know,' she

answered, with a faint smile. ; I can't look
beyond the end of the season. I hate looking
forward at all, it always makes me so miserable,'
she added; and Tom, glancing up suddenly, saw
that her blue eyes were swimming in tears.

This spectacle distressed him beyond measure.
c Upon my soul, it's too bad ! ' he exclaimed
involuntarily ; and then, ' Miss Winnington,
I do wish I could help you in anyway.'


You can't help me, Mr. Stanniforth; nobody
can help me,' answered the girl despairingly;
and the tears overflowed from her eyelids and
ran down her cheeks.

Xow, now, you mustn't — you really mustn't
give way ! ' cried Tom, in great perturbation.
1 Keep a good heart, my dear Miss "Winnirtgton,
and it will all come right in the end. I think
I can partly understand what your trouble is ;
but nobody can force you to do what you don't
want to do, if you will only stand at bay and
defy them. And — and it can't last for ever,
you know,' added Tom, forgetting, in his desire
to console the afflicted one, that he was cheering
her with the prospect of her mother's ultimate
demise.

Had he been a little better versed in the
ways of women, he would have known that he
had but to sit still and hold his tongue, and that

Edith would presently recover herself; but he
was ignorant of this fact in physiology, and so
he went on with his well-meant efforts at comfort.
■ Now, don't cry, pray don't ; it really
isn't so bad as you think it is ' — and so forth.
Bending forward in the fervour of his entreaties,
he grasped Edith's hand, which was lying passively
on her lap, and which she did not withdraw.


It was at this most inopportune moment
that Walter emerged from the trees, and, halting
abruptly on recognising the couple before him,
became, as it were, turned to stone.

The effect of this apparition upon Miss
Winnington was very incomprehensible to Tom
Stanniforth, who had his back turned to the
intruder. In the twinkling of an eve she had
snatched her hand away; her tears were gone,
a cheerful and guileless smile illumined her
features, and, except that she was a little red
in the face, there was nothing about her to indicate
that only a second before she had been a
prey to such poignant emotion.

Oh, here is Mr. Brune ! ' said she. And
she got up, holding out her hand, and saying,
i How do you do, Walter? ' in the most matter-of-course
manner in the world.

Walter, who had no such aptitudes for self-repression,
made a grab at his hat, growled out

something quite unintelligible, and glared at
Mr. Stanniforth as if he meant to devour him,
body and bones, forthwith.

c Oho ! now I understand ! ' thought the
latter, who, to be sure, could hardly have helped
understanding. He was a good deal amused
by Walters angry face, for the fact of a man's
being himself in love does not necessarily debar
him from enjoying the absurd figure cut by his
neighbour in a similar predicament; but he saw
that it w T ould not do to let his amusement
appear. Evidently nothing beyond the very
smallest provocation would be required to bring
about an appeal to physical force, and Mr.
Stanniforth was not inclined for public brawling.

Hadn't I better go and tell Lady Travers
where you are?' he suggested. ' She may be
looking for you; and I suppose I may leave you
in Brune's charge for the present, may I not ? '

He did not wait for an answer, but lifted
his hat and walked away, leaving the lovers to
fight it out.

'What is the matter?' asked Edith, after
waiting in vain for Walter to open fire.

1 The matter ? with me, do you mean ? I
don't think I said anything was the matter with
me, did I?'

No; but you look all sorts of dreadful
things.'

I am afraid I can't help my looks. I must
apologise for having interrupted you, and driven
Mr. Stanniforth away. As I am going away
myself directly, perhaps I had better look for
him, and send him back to you.'

Edith raised her eves for a moment to
Walter's face, and then let them drop again,
and began drilling holes in the turf with the tip
of her parasol. ' If you won't ask me anything
she said presently, ' of course I can't explain. '

Really,' answered Walter, with a short,
angry laugh, £ I don't think I care particularly
about explanations. You don't owe me any;
and if you did, it would make very little difference.
There are some things which even you
would find it rather hard to explain away.'

4 Even I ! ' exclaimed Edith, stung by the
injustice of the innuendo ; ' I don't know what
you mean by that.'

c I only mean that you are rather clever at
explanations. I don't much like them myself;
I prefer that there should be nothing to explain.
But I suppose you would not find that at all
amusing.'

'You are very rude, and very unfair!'
cried Edith. ' If this is all I get by — by '

By taking some trouble to lead a fool into
displaying his folly, you won't do it again?
Well, I hope you won't, I'm sure. I can answer

for one fool who will decline to play the game
any more, at all events.'

4 You are quite right, Mr. Brune,' replied
Edith coldly; c you had certainly better give up
playing the game," as you call it, since you
have no control over your temper.'

I could keep my temper well enough if all
this were play to me, as it is to you. But what
proves me a fool is that I have been in earnest.
It won't happen again though, that's one thing.
I don't understand the ways of the world that
you live in nowadays, and it is not at all likely
that I should ever get accustomed to them.
Of course I ought to see that bankers' clerks are
only an inferior class of beings, who may think
themselves uncommonly lucky if they are flirted
with, and that the men to be married are
millionaires, like Stanniforth. But, unfortunately,
I don't see it, so I am not fit to play the
game, and the sooner I leave the ground the
better. Good-bye, Miss Wilmington.'

Walter bowed with great dignity, and prepared
to suit the action to the word. He did not,
however, walk away quite so quickly as he might
have done, and he must have been listening very
attentively to have been arrested by the extremely
faint sound which presently reached his ear.

I beg your pardon,' said he, stopping short ;
did you call me ? '

1 No,' answered Edith in a chilling tone; and
he said, ' I beg your pardon,' again, and resumed
his deliberate retreat.

Walter ! '

There was no doubt about the summons this
time; and Walter promptly faced about and
obeyed it. ' Have you anything to say to me ? '
he asked.

I only thought that, after what you said
just now, I had better tell you that I am not
going to be married to Mr. Stanniforth. Mr.
Stanniforth is going to be married — or at least
he wishes to be married — to quite another
person. It was about her that he had been
talking to me when you came up.'

Is this true ? ' asked Walter hoarsely.

I am not in the habit of saying what is not
true; but you need not believe me, unless you
like. If you see Kate as you go out, will you
tell her where I am, please? I don't wish to be
left quite by myself among all these people.'

1 Oh, Edith, I beg your pardon ! I quite
forgot that I was leaving you alone. Will you
forgive me, just this once? I am so awfully
miserable, and — well, you'll allow that it was
enough to make any fellow lose his head. What
was I to think when I saw the man holding your
hand?'

I can forgive you,' answered Edith, with a

sigh; 'but I wish you were not so — I hardly
know what to say.'

1 So jealous, I suppose you mean.'

1 Ah, Walter, you must not talk about being
jealous ! You know, I told you that I could only
meet you as a friend.'

'And I told you that I would rather not
meet you at all than meet you upon those terms.
Lady Travers made me promise a lot of things;
but I find I can't keep my promise. I can't
look on without hope. To-day I made a mistake ;
but it would only be the same thing some other
day, and then perhaps it wouldn't be a mistake.
If you don't marry Stanniforth, you will marry
somebody else.'

Edith shook her head.

I Then, why am I to be only a friend ? Why
won't you give me one word of comfort? Why
won't you let me have something to live for and
work for ? '

You know why. I treated you badly once;,
but I won't do it again. Sometimes I think I
may manage to end my days as an old maid;
but that is the utmost that I ever dare to hope
for. Will you come and see me sometimes when
my hair is grey, and I am living in lodgings with
a cat and a canary ? '

I I don't know how to talk to you, Edith,'
said Walter. ' You speak as if you wished me

VOL. III. L

to believe that you still cared for me; and yet it
seems to me that I should be very foolish if I
did believe it. Perhaps I am more dull than
the rest of the world ; but I do like to have
things put plainly and to know where I am.'

You are in the Regent's Park answered
Edith, laughing, ' and you are attracting attention
by your authoritative manners, and here
come Kate and Mr. Stanniforth in search of us.
Do, please, try to look like other people for a
little while.'

i Do you know that it is nearly dinner-time ? '
said Lady Travers. ' Perhaps Mr. Brune would
be kind enough to go and find the carriage for
us.'

And when Walter was gone, she whispered
to Edith : ' What a goose you are not to marry
Mr. Stanniforth! He is worth a dozen of the
other.'

CHAPTER XXXII.

PHILIP BEFORE THE PUBLIC.

In the whole course of his life Philip had never
discharged a debt with more heartfelt satisfaction
than that of the 5,000/. which had been lent him
by Signora Tommasini. The Signora, not at all
affronted by his unceremonious flight from Italy,
had let him know her address immediately upon
her arrival in London; and the very next morning
Philip presented himself, with a neat little
speech carefully learnt, and a cheque for 5,125/.
enclosed in an envelope.

4 What is this cried the Signora, indignantly,
after examining the slip of paper tendered to
her.

J Don't speak like an angry cabman,' returned
Philip, laughing. ' It is your money, principal
and interest, as per agreement; and I have been
endeavouring to express some sense of my
obligation; only you wouldn't listen to me.'

I call k this most unfriendly,' said the Signora.


L 2

Never did I hear the just payment of a
debt described in those terms before. If there
is an 7 error in the amount, kindly mention it,
and it shall be rectified.'

What nonsense ! Do you take me for a
Jew money-lender, that you hand me 125/. more
than I gave you? I shall certainly not accept
it.' And the Signora tore the cheque up, and
tossed it into her wastepaper basket.

I That makes a penny more that you will
have to accept,' remarked Philip, blandly. c My
dear Signora Tommasini, don't be ridiculous.
You know it was agreed between us that I
should repay you with reasonable interest; and
of course the sooner I could repay you the
better it was for me.'

I said you were to repay me when you had
made your fortune upon the stage. As for the
interest, that was rubbish. You could not
have supposed that I meant to drive such a
bargain as that.'

And could you have supposed that my self-respect
would have allowed me to accept your
help upon any other conditions ? I am sure you
could not — knowing, as you do, what a high
sense of self-respect I possess.'

I I shall not take the interest,' replied the
Signora. ' I must take the principal, I suppose;
but it is very annoying. You won't work anymore,

I know — unless, indeed, you get into
difficulties again. You are always slipping
through my fingers in one way or another, and
I feel now as if I had lost my last hold upon
you. Where did you get this money from?
But of course I know. I have a great mind to
write to Mrs. Stanniforth and tell her that she
will be the ruin of you, if she doesn't cut you off
with a shilling. Just as I had arranged everything
so beautifully too ! I meant you to have sung
at Lady Cecilia Caroll's concert next week, and
I had seen Steinberger about it, and all. I
believe you know that I want to do all I can for
your good, and you are so determined to go to
the bad that you are frightened of me. No
doubt that was why you rushed away from
Florence, without even taking the trouble to say
good-bye to me.'

I am not at all frightened of you now,'
replied Philip, with perfect truth; ' and you are
quite mistaken about my intentions, for I mean
to work like a galley-slave. Furthermore, I
shall be delighted to be done good to in anyway
that you may think fit, and I will sing at
Lady Cecilia Caroll's with the greatest of
pleasure. I hope that is satisfactory.'

How Philip afterwards redeemed the latter
part of his promise in a manner not wholly
satisfactory either to himself or to those interested

in his advancement has been already
related. His failure was made light of by
Signora Tommasini, who declared it to be due
solely to nervousness; but Herr Steinberger did
not take this view, and grumbled long and
loudly at the folly of trying to make short cuts
to fame. Steinberger had never, from the first,
cared much about Philip as a pupil. He was a
man who liked to make unexpected hits, to
take audiences by storm, and strike critics dumb;
and he knew that this could only be accomplished
by practically ensuring success before the event.
In Philip's case it was hardly possible to do so.
He was neither poor enough nor ambitious
enough to be patient; and his voice, unfortunately,
was one of those uncertain ones which
may be magnificent to-day and less than mediocre
tomorrow.

Good for noting? 7 cried Steinberger, in
his disgust — c you are really good for noting ; and
it was better you give up all idea of the stage.'

Philip made no rejoinder to this and other
similar outbreaks. He was much inclined to
agree with Herr Steinberger. He did not give
up thinking of the stage — nor indeed did the
irascible German intend that counsel to betaken
quite literally — but it was very strongly
borne in upon him that he was good for nothing.
He felt that it was not in him to succeed in

anything beyond a certain point; he was quite
sure that it was not in him to succeed in the
teeth of difficulties; and, worse than this, he
was aware that it was not in him to care very
much, even though he should fail. ■ Know thyself
is a precept which has a wise sound ; but
if it were possible to act upon it, if we could all
in truth know ourselves, how many of us would
have the courage to go on living? Philip knew
himself a great deal too well, and had long since
recognised the futility of attempting to steer a
vessel without a rudder. For some years of his
life it had been amusing to drift, and certainly
he had drifted in and out of some queer places ;
but now the edge of that form of enjoyment had
worn off, and the lenient self-disparagement in
which he had been wont to indulge was fast
turning into self contempt — which was by no
means a change for the better. It was not so
much that he was oppressed by the memory of
sins which did not strike him as specially heinous
ones, as that he was beginning to see that his
was an ignoble, objectless life, and that it never
would be anything else. Nellie despised him
and — he thought — hated him; Margaret despised
him and loved him : all he could do was
to keep as much as possible out of the way of
them both henceforth ; and, as they happened to
be the only two persons in the world for whom

he cared a straw, the future was not a very
bright one to contemplate.

Perhaps he would not have troubled himself
much about the future, if the present had been
agreeable ; but it was not so. For the first time
in his life, Philip was beginning to suffer from
satiety, the disease of selfish men. He was
leading just the same life that had seemed to
him so delightful a year before. He had quite
as many friends as ever ; he dined out constantly
; great ladies petted him, and Bohemia
made him welcome ; but somehow or other the
flavour had gone out of it all. In old days he
had been subject to occasional fits of low spirits ;
but now these fits had become almost permanent.
He grew so alarmed about himself at last that
he actually consulted a famous physician, who
told him that he had allowed himself to run
down too much, and prescribed a strong tonic.
The physician, being only a physician, and nota
sorcerer, could not tell what was the matter
with his patient ; but Signora Tommasini understood
the case better. In a half-friendly, half-motherly
way, she took possession of this poor
outcast, whose troubles — even including that of
his rejection by Nellie — she had wormed out of
him, one by one. He was rather glad to tell
them to her. He made no objection to moving
into the rooms which she had secured for him

at her hotel. He had taken a great dislike to
being alone, and it was impossible to feel dull
in the Signora's company. It was true that she
ordered him about rather more than was quite
pleasant ; but upon the whole he preferred being
ordered about to being left to his own devices ;
and, besides, he did not always obey orders.

1 mean you to sing once in public before
the end of the season,' the Signora announced
decidedly, one hot afternoon.

Philip was lying full length on a sofa,
smoking a cigarette ; for he was allowed to do
exactly as he pleased in this easy-going lady's
drawing-room.

- Do you?' said he; 'you won't achieve it,
I'm afraid. Steinberger wouldn't hear of such
a thing

4 Bother Steinberger ! If I am not as good
a judge as Steinberger, I know nothing of my
trade. Music-masters are like finishing governesses
; they would like to keep you in the
schoolroom all your days. Your voice will
never be better than it is now.'

c That,' said Philip, blowing a cloud of
smoke, ' seems quite possible.'

I mean you,' the Signora went on, 'to
sing at the Crystal Palace in about a fortnight's
time, and I will see Steinberger, and make him
consent. Do you feel nervous about it? '

Not the least,' answered Philip. ' I shall
come to grief most likely, but it won't be through
any nervousness.'

c Then you will not come to grief at all. At
least, if you do, you would come to grief just as
much next year, or the year after. We had
much better know the worst or the best at
once.'

I don't envy you your interview with
Steinberger. He'll give in, I dare say ; but
he'll abuse you like a pickpocket first. Hot
weather has no effect on that man's energy.'

In spite of this prediction, the Signora had
no great difficulty with Herr Steinberger, who
was very busy at the time, and who had almost
abandoned all hope that Philip would prove the
means of increasing his reputation. When he
was told of the arrangement which it was proposed
to make, he merely grinned hideously
and went off into a long guttural laugh ; and,
on being asked for an explanation of his behaviour,
he permitted himself such impertinent
insinuations that the Signora would have
blushed, if blushing had still been among her
capacities. As it was, she only joined in
Steinberger's laughter, like the good-natured
soul that she was, and gave him a great push,
which sent him reeling into the nearest
chair.

c You give me leave to do what I please,
then? ' said she.

Oh, take him away — take him away ! '
answered Steinberger. ' I make him a present
to you. Only, when he is hissed from the stage,
you will be so kind and not say as he was my
pupil. That is all I beg ! '

1 The day will come when you will boast of
having been his master,' retorted the Signora.

She had confidence in Philip's future. She
remembered the time when she herself had been
an aspirant of whom little was expected, and
whose triumphs had not come all at once. Her
own experience led her to trust the opinion of
the public rather than that of the cognoscenti,
and perhaps she forgot that her voice, if somewhat
unmanageable at first, had always been an
extraordinarily powerful one.

1 Philip allowed her to take her own way,
to bustle about and to secure the engagement
that she desired for him. He did as she told
him, practised with unremitting zeal for a fortnight,
and listened to her sanguine prophecies
with a smile that was only half incredulous.
The continual sight of so much energy and
faith was perhaps the next best thing to the
actual possession of those enviable gifts.

4 Where did you learn the secret of remaining
eternally young ? ' he asked her. ' It would

be very amiable of you if you would communicate
it to me ; for I am growing old at such a
deuce of a pace that I expect my dotage to
come on every hour. Pop me into the caldron,
Signora Medea, and let us see what kind of a
stew will come of it.'

That is exactly what I am going to do
replied the Signora, with a triumphant laugh.
You want a success. When once you have
had that, you won't talk any more nonsense
about growing old.'

And suppose I don't get the success? '

You must succeed,' replied the resolute
lady, with a stamp of her foot which sent the
chandelier jingling.

c I believe you will bully me into succeeding,
whether I will or no,' said Philip, laughing
lazily.

It was on a hot day in July that Signora
Tommasini took the debutant down to Sydenham
in her carriage, talking incessantly the whole
way to keep his spirits up. Philip leant back
and listened to her, much amused at these unnecessary
efforts. He was not conscious of
the smallest timidity, and only felt the least
shade in the world of excitement. Lately he
had adopted a soothing sort of fatalistic creed,
which disposed of all worry and responsibility.
If he was destined to be a famous man, he

would of course fulfil his destiny ; if he was
destined to collapse, he would equally of course
collapse. ' Let us see what will happen said
he ; and among all the people who were talking
of the new singer at the Crystal Palace that
afternoon, there was probably not one who felt
a more dispassionate curiosity upon this point
than the new singer himself.

The concourse was a very large one, and
this was in many ways an advantage. Looking
down and around upon so vast a sea of human
faces, Philip felt that he could be no more afraid
of them than of so many ants upon an ant-hill ;
he found it impossible to think of them as
individual critics. It was a pity, however, that
the building should also be very large. He
made these reflections while he was standing,
with his music in his hand, ready to begin the
first air that had been assigned to him. It was
Signora Tommasini who had suggested what
that air should be ; and the sequel showed the
accuracy of her judgment. There is nothing
more certain to please the majority of English
people than a well-known English ballad ; and
there was nothing to which Philip's special
powers were better adapted than to the gratifying
of this simple taste. Probably he had never
sung better in his life than when he treated the
multitude to £ Home, Sweet Home,' at the Crystal

Palace on that July afternoon. He had a soft,
caressing method of enunciation which had its
own effect ; he understood to a nicety the,
amount of pathos that the words could be made
to bear ; he sang without the smallest apparent
effort — 'like a nightingale,' as an enthusiastic
lady in the front row declared.

Those who were seated further back were
not so well pleased, and thought that a little
more effort would not have been out of place.
The notes that reached their ears were certainly
very sweet, but then there were a good many
notes which did not reach them at all. However,
the people who had heard all applauded
vigorously ; and those who did not applaud the
singer applauded the song ; and the residue
applauded because others did so ; and so Signor
Marescalchi was called upon to bow many times,
which he did with a grace that was much remarked
and admired.

Then he received the congratulations of the
other artists, whose friendship and good-will he
had for a long time enjoyed. ' But you must
sing out,' said one of them warningly ; ' don't
forget next time that you must sing out.'

Philip shrugged his shoulders. He was not
elated, and he flattered himself that he would
not have been cast down if things had gone
differently. He was still under the influence of

that dreamy impression that he was only fulfilling
his part in a fore-ordained programme ;
he thought that he was as free from emotion of
any kind as it was possible to be ; but probably
there was room at the bottom of his heart for a
certain feeling of self-glorification in that he
was able to view matters so coolly.

After a time he had to advance once more to
the front in company with Signora Tomniasini,
whose appearance gave the signal for a salvo of
clapping and stamping, and who curtseyed and
bobbed her head as delightedly as if such
ovations had been quite a novel experience to
her. Signora Tommasini was idolised by the
multitude. While she was singing, Philip was
enabled to discern what an amount of vocal
power was required to fill the building.
Heavens, what lungs ! ' he thought. ' I should
simply burst, like the frog who wanted to be an
ox, if I tried to produce such a sound as that.'
Perhaps it was consciousness of his inability to
perform the task demanded of him that caused
him to let out his notes even more softly and
languidly than he had done before ; certain it
is that he was all but inaudible. ' A Sho-nor
Marescalchi,' remarked a daily newspaper,
which noticed the concert the following: morning,
' was announced to share with Signora
Tommasini in the execution of this charming

duo ; and as a young gentleman, standing beside
her, was observed to open and shut his mouth
at intervals, it must be assumed that the promise
was kept. Had it not been for this circumstance,
we should have been inclined to question the
existence of Signor MarescalcmV

The criticism, if ill-natured, was scarcely
exaggerated. Philip sang sweetly and correctly
; but, as far as the immense majority of
the crowd facing him was concerned, he might
almost as well have spared himself the trouble
of singing at all. Now the British public, which
is a long-suffering public, will stand many
things ; and if the new aspirant to its favour
had sung false, it is more than likely that he
would have been pardoned ; but what the
British public will not stand is to be defrauded
of its just due. It has paid its money to hear a
noise ; and a noise of some sort or kind it will
have, or know the reason why. Therefore,
when Philip's graceful pantomime succeeded
the Signora's tremendous chest-notes, there
arose a murmuring which, if he had stood alone,
would probably have developed into some still
stronger expression of disapproval. Even as it
was, he contrived to rob the Signora of her
legitimate reward ; and he led her away amidst
a little desultory clapping which was almost
worse than total silence.

Philip had yet one chance of removing the
bad impression created by this failure ; but he
did not take advantage of it. He got through
the Neapolitan fisherman's song, which was the
third and last performance entrusted to him,
after a fashion ; but he was not singing his
best, and was so evidently taking no pains about
it, that the patience of the audience gave way,
and he was roundly hissed. He paused the
moment that this hubbub began, and stood contemplating
the intelligent public with a faint
derisive smile until it had subsided ; after
which he calmly discharged himself of the
remainder of his task, bowed, and retired.
Anything that looks like a display of courage is
always popular, and some of those who had
hissed Signor Marescalchi were sorry for having
done so when they saw how little he cared ;
others said that he could do much better if he
chose, but that he was sulking because of his
previous failure. In truth he was neither sulky
nor indifferent ; only despairing.

He kept up appearances, however. He
chatted and laughed with his friends quite as
usual, neither allowing them an opportunity
of condoling with him nor assuming anv unnatural
hilarity ; and it was not until he was
once more in the carriage with Signora ,
and they had progressed some miles to-vol

III. M

wards London that be] alluded to what had
occurred.

4 Steinberger will be pleased he remarked.


4 You did not try ! ' cried the Signora, who
was deeply mortified.

4 No ; I didn't try — after the first. You
wouldn't try to lift up this carriage and walk
off with it under your arm. I saw that the
thing was impossible ; so I gave it up.'

4 You let everybody see that you were
not trying ! ' pursued the Signora, almost in
tears.

4 Yes ; there was some satisfaction in
that.'

4 What satisfaction ? I don't understand
you.'

4 There is always something flattering to
one's self-love in the action of snapping one's
fingers in a man's face. You don't frighten
him much perhaps ; but at least you are able
to say to yourself that he hasn't frightened
you.'

But you want to make friends of these
people, not to defy them. If you go on in
this way, you will very soon be irretrievably
ruined.'

4 My dear Signora, I am not going on at
all — neither in this way nor in any other. I

am irretrievably ruined already. Do you think
I like being hissed ? I assure you I like it so
little that I don't mean to expose myself to the
risk of its happening a second time. You will
never see me at the Opera now, unless it is
from beyond the footlights. No ; all that is
over and done with, like so many other things.
You have done the best that you possibly could
for me, and so has Steinberger; and upon my
word, I believe I have done the best that I
possibly could for myself ; but we couldn't accomplish
the impossible. We have tried very
hard to cultivate what doesn't exist ; and now
that our eyes are open, we will stop trying,
please.'

I What will you do, then ? '

c Ah, that is rather more than I can tell you.
Waterloo Bridge, I think.'

8 Don't laugh at me ; I shall not be able to
laugh for a week at least. I feel this a great
deal more than you do.'

I I don't want to be contradictious,' said
Philip, lighting a cigarette ; * but I doubt that.'

Then, if you feel it, why are yon so easily
discouraged ? '

1 Now, Signora Tommasini, be honest ; do
you think I shall ever sing respectably ? '

The Signora sighed. In her heart she did
not think so ; yet she could hardly bring herself

to admit as much yet. ' Perhaps we were in
too great a hurry,' she said.

You didn't think that the other day. You
told me, as you may remember, that if I failed
now, I should equally fail two years hence ; and
I haven't a doubt that you were right. I have
had so many failures lately that I can't burst
into tears over this one ; but I am crushed by
it, nevertheless. In the course of the present
year I have managed to lose everything in the
world that I cared for ; and really I don't see
anything for it now but to get out of the
world.'

The Signora, who had started by being a
little angry w r with her friend, began to feel sincerely
sorry for him. She knew that he would
not blow out his brains or jump over Waterloo
Bridge ; but she was not so sure that he might
not take to drink, or otherwise commit moral
suicide, if a helping hand were not held out to
arrest him.

Oh, come,' said she cheerfully ; ' you need
not put an end to yourself because you have
sung badly at a Crystal Palace concert, nor
even because your cousin won't marry you. I
have a dozen plans in my head which we must
try yet, before we give up the game.'

And she began detailing these famous
schemes, some of which were a little wild, as

well they might be, seeing that she invented
them as she went along ; but they had at least
the effect of making Philip laugh ; and before
she went to bed that night, the Signora felt
comparatively easy about him.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

Walter's hash is settled.

With July on the wane, and invitations growing
fewer, and the term for which the house hi Park
Street had been hired approaching completion,
Mrs. Winnington felt that it was high time for
Mr. Stanniforth to speak out. That the man
could mean to play her false, after ail that had
passed, she could not believe ; and yet there
were moments when a sickening suspicion of
treachery crossed her mind. Why did Mr.
Stanniforth studiously avoid meeting her ?
Why, when they did meet, did he assume so
shamefaced an air ? What was the meaning of
the evident embarrassment with which he had
told her that he had decided to take Long-bourne
for a year ? Mrs. Winnington had no
objection to his taking Longbourne. On the
contrary, she thought it would be a very comfortable
sort of family arrangement, and was
quite disposed, not only to pay him a visit in
the autumn, as he had suggested, but to make

the house her head quarters, as of old, should
her relations with its occupier prove of a nature
to justify her in so doing. But his manner,
while giving the invitation, had certainly been
rather odd ; and indeed it was somewhat unaccountable
that he should wish to take Long-bourne
at all. The more she thought of it the
more she became convinced that there was
some mystery connected with the affair ; and
Mrs. Winnington had so much leisure at this
time to devote to the solving of mysteries that
more than once in the course of her speculations
she was within an ace of hitting upon the truth.

She had been lying upon her sofa for a whole
morning, pretending to read the newspaper and
tormenting herself with divers disquieting conjectures,
until at last further silence became impossible
to her. ' Edith, dear,' said she, ' I
know Mr. Stanniforth tells you everything.
Can you guess what his object is in going to
Longbourne ? I feel sure that he must have
some particular object.'

Edith started and looked frightened, as she
always did when her mother addressed her
suddenly. It was not, however, the first time
that this question had been put to her, and she
answered, as she had done on previous occasions,
that she supposed Mr. Stanniforth liked the
country.

Oh, my dear, that is no reason at all. He
has a place of his own, you know ; and in the
natural course of things one would expect him
to be shooting grouse in August. It is just
possible that he might be doing this to oblige
Margaret.'

4 Of course,' said Edith, ' Margaret would
much rather have him in the house than a
family of strangers, who would very likely have
children and dogs, and smoke in their bedrooms.'


1 But really, when you come to think of it,
that is the sort of thing that no man would
ever do. Kindhearted as Mr. Stanniforth is —
and I must say that he is the most kindhearted
man I ever met — I cannot believe that he
would burden himself with a large country
house merely in order to save his sister-in-law
a little trouble. 1 can't help thinking that
those horrid people are at the bottom of it.
No doubt they have their own reasons for wishing
to get him into the neighbourhood again ;
and poor Mr. Stanniforth is so determined to
think well of everybody that a child might
impose upon him.'

I don't think Mr. Stanniforth is easily
imposed upon,' said Edith. ; What horrid
people do you mean ? '

Oh, those people at Broom Leas, of course.

I have always felt that that man Brune was not
to be trusted. But I may be wrong. Has
Mr. Stanniforth ever spoken to you about
them ? '

He has mentioned them sometimes,' answered
Edith, trying to assume a careless tone,
and failing ignominiously.

Mrs. Winnington fixed a penetrating gaze
upon her daughter. ' Edith,' said she, ' I hope
you are not concealing anything from me.'

Edith's powers of concealment, so far asher
mother was concerned, were small indeed.
When it came to direct interrogation, she knew
quite well that she was done for ; and her relief
was proportionately great when the servant
came in at this critical moment, bearing a pile
of letters, of which Mrs. Winnington took immediate
possession.

Mrs. Wilmington's creed with regard to the
sacredness of her daughter's correspondence
has already been mentioned more than once ;
and when, after tearing open and tossing aside
several envelopes containing invitations and
bills, she came upon one addressed to Miss
Winnington, she merely held it up to the light,
observing, ' A note for you from Kate,' and asa
matter of course treated it like its predecessors.


1 I hope it is not to say that she can't take

me to Cunningham tomorrow,' remarked Edith,
who never expected to be allowed the privilege
of opening her own letters when her mother
was present, and who was not in the habit of
receiving any that all the world was not welcome
to read.

She was sitting by the open window, pulling
the dead leaves from the smoke-begrimed geraniums
that grew in the box outside, and consequently
she did not see the startling effect
produced upon Mrs. Wilmington by a perusal
of Lady Travers's note. The first intimation
that reached her of something being wrong
was a gasping sound proceeding from the room
at her back, and, turning round, she beheld
her mother, who was standing erect, forgetful
of the gout, and holding an open sheet of paper
in her hand. Mrs. Wilmington's jaw had fallen,
her eyes were dilated, ' and the expression of
mingled wrath and horror upon her face was
of a nature to strike terror into the stoutest
heart.

Edith,' said she, in a deep, tragic voice,
what — what is this ? '

Edith, with blanched cheeks and knocking
knees, took the note extended to her and read
it. It ran as follows : —

4 Come to tea tomorrow afternoon. I shall
not be in until late ; but probably Walter Brune,

whom I have told to be there, will manage to
entertain you during my absence. It will be
your last meeting with him in this house, I am
afraid ; for I have just been told that we are
to go down to the country in the beginning of
next week. I suppose you will be very sorry for
yourself; but I don't know that you are more
to be pitied than other people, after all. I wish
I could change places with you, I know !
Your affectionate sister,

'Kate Travers.'

Edith handed the note back to her mother,
sank down upon a low chair, and waited. She
could not have spoken if it had been to save
her life. Mrs. Winnington remained standing ;
and for the space of a few minutes there was
silence, during which the rattle of the passing
vehicles outside and the ticking of the clock on
the mantelpiece sounded unnaturally distinct,

c You have not a word to say for yourself,
then,' began Mrs. Winnington, at length. ' I
may take it that you have been in the habit
of meeting this man at your sister's house, and
that you and she have taken advantage of my
illness to deceive me in the cruellest way in
which a daughter can deceive her mother. 7

There was another short interval of silence ;
and then Mrs. Winnington also sat down, remarking
that she had received her death-blow.

Apparently, however, she had yet a few words
to say before she died.

i For the last twenty years and more she
groaned, ' I have thought of nothing but my
children. I have indulged them, I have toiled
for them, I have sacrificed everything that they
might get on in the world ; and now I have my
reward! My sons hardly trouble themselves
to write to me twice in the course of the year,
and my daughters bring disgrace upon me. I
only hope, Edith, that when you come to be old
and ill, you may be spared the pain of being
ashamed of those whom you have loved and
trusted most.'

Edith made an attempt to speak, but could
get nothing out but an inarticulate murmur,
and Mrs. Wilmington went on —

How you can have the face to behave as
you have done passes my comprehension ! Your
conscience must be seared with a red-hot iron.
To think that while I was lying upon what
might have been my death-bed you were making
appointments with a man to whom I had forbidden
you to speak, and whom you perfectly
well knew that you could never marry ! I could
not have believed that any one — least of all any
child of mine — could have been so heartless and
wicked ! '

I never made any appointment with him, ,

cried Edith, finding her tongue at last. ' Once
I got an invitation to a concert for him ; but
that was all. I have met him once or twice
since then, but it has only been by accident.'

You need not add to your guilt by telling
falsehoods,' said her mother coldly. ' With
Kate's note before me, I can judge for myself
how far these meetings have been accidental.
It is not pleasant to have to say such a thing of
one's own daughter, but I hope it will be a longtime
before I see Kate again. She is a bad
woman!' exclaimed Mrs. Wilmington, her face
reddening and her voice quivering. ' She has
been a bad daughter, a bad wife, and a bad
sister.'

Edith burst into tears. ' Don't say that ! '
she sobbed out. ' Kate has not been bad tome.
I am very sorry — I know it was wrong —
but it was not what you think. I always told
him we could never be married — that we could
only meet as friends '

1 It is easy to say that you are sorry, now
that you are found out,' interrupted Mrs.
Winnington, not at all appeased. ' If you want
me to believe that you are sorry, you must give
me some proof of it.'

Edith looked up, and brushed array her
tears. 'What am I to do? 1 she asked despairingly.


1 You may well ask what you are to do !
I don't know what may not have happened
while I have been shut up in the house. Very
likely everybody knows about this disgraceful
affair, and you may have ruined your prospects,
as well as broken my heart. I can't tell you
what you are to do. One thing, of course,
must be done without delay : the man must be
written to.'

Edith got up and seated herself at the
writing-table without a word. By-and-by she
began a note, under her mother's dictation.
Dear Mr. Brune — My mother desires me to
tell you '

Stop ! ' said Mrs. Wilmington abruptly ;
that will not do. My wishes and authority
evidently count for very little. You must write
in your own name, and tell him in your own
words that he is never to address you, directly
or indirectly, again, and that, if he does so, you
will refuse to recognise him. When you have
written that, you can show me the letter. 7

Mrs. Winnington lay down on the sofa and
closed her eyes; while Edith, with a shaking
head, but with very little hesitation, dashed off
the following missive : —

My dear Walter, — I have just received a
note from Kate, asking me to tea tomorrow,

and telling me that yon will be there. I cannot
go ; and I cannot meet you again there, or anywhere
else. You know, I told you from the
first that we could never be anything more than
friends ; but now it will be impossible for us
even to be that. I need not give reasons ; but
you must see yourself that we could not have
gone on meeting as we have done lately. I
shall always feel grateful to you for having
thought of me for so long as you have done ;
but I wish you to remember what I said to you
at Longbourne, and to understand that it was
the truth. I am sure that, after this, you will
not attempt to see me or speak to me again.
Sincerely yours,

Edith Bennington,'

It was thus that Edith wrote her farewell to
the man whom she loved ; and whether she was
a coward or a heroine, or a little of both, for so
writing, shall be decided by the reader, according
as his or her conception of human nature
may dictate.

Mrs. Winnington was not pleased with the
tone of the composition, but she allowed it to
pass, perceiving that by no emendations could it
be made to serve its purpose more thoroughly.
1 1 suppose,' said she, in icy accents, ' that I
must take your having written this as a proof

of repentance — you had better ring the bell and
have it posted at once, by the way — a proof of
repentance ; but for anything I know, your repentance
may have come too late to be of any
use. You may have lost what you will never
regain.'

4 Yes, I have,' answered Edith, alluding to
an obvious loss of which her mother was not
thinking. ' Mamma,' she added abruptly, ' I
have done as you told me now ; I have given
up everything. I shall never marry Walter
Brune ; but please to understand, once for all,
that I shall never marry any one else.'

If such a thins* can be imagined as a rabbit
in the snake-house at the Zoological Gardens
bidding a boa do his worst, some idea may be
formed of Edith's aspect as she announced this
unalterable determination.

'How dare you speak in that tone to arne?'
shouted Mrs. Winnington, in a rage. ( Am I,
your mother, to receive orders from you? I
know what is best for you, and I say that you
shall marry a suitable person.'

c I won't,' returned Edith, tremulously defiant.
' You can't make me, and I won't.' |

4 1 can make you, and I will!' Mrs. Winnington
was going to exclaim ; but she checked
herself after the first two words, and adopted
another system of tactics. ' Edith,' said she, ina

piteous voice, c do you want to kill me? You
will kill me if you dismiss Mr. Stanniforth — for
of course that is what you mean when you
declare that you will never marry. What can
I say to you? You treat me like an enemy.
Because I love you — because I will not let you
spoil your life — you hate me.'

'Oh, no, no! 7

1 You say no ; but I must judge by actions,
not words. Will you not listen to reason ? If
I were self-seeking, as I know that you and
Kate think me, why should I care what became
of you ? What difference could it make to mean
old woman with one foot in the grave ' —
here the foot referred to kicked convulsively —
c whether you married Mr. Stanniforth or a
pauper? Strangers may say or think what they
please of me ; one does not expect any charity
from them ; but it is very hard to be so misjudged
by one's own flesh and blood. Edith,
my darling, I implore you — I beseech you upon
my knees not to refuse the man who loves
you.'

There can be no doubt that Edith's proper
course would have been to confess at once that
she had already refused the man, and to add
that he did not love her ; but this was more
than she dared to do. Her mother's genuine
emotion had had some effect upon her ; and,

VOL. III. N

besides that, she knew full well that no sooner
would Mr. Staimiforth have been proved ineligible
than a substitute would have been
selected and pursued. Therefore she replied,
with deplorable casuistry :

c I am not at all convinced that Mr, Staimi-
forth cares more for me than for other people.
If he ever told me that he did '

4 Yes ? — well?' cried Mrs. Wilmington,
eagerly.

c If he assured me of that and begged me
to marry him, perhaps then I might think of
it.'

Instantly Miss Wilmington was enfolded in
her mother's embrace. She was kissed and
forgiven and wept over ; and, if the truth must
be told, she wept a little herself — having,
indeed, some reason for weeping.

Upon this touching scene of reconciliation,
in which it must be confessed that one of our
heroines cuts but a poor figure, we may now
drop the curtain, and proceed to a less aristocratic
quarter of the town, in company with
the postman who delivered the fatal letter at
Walter's lodgings in the course of the same
evening.

It so chanced that Walter would not in any

have been able to put in an appearance at

Travers House on the following day, as he had

been requested to do. For an event had occurred
in the City the consequences of which
seemed likely to be serious in more ways than
one. and which must certainly prevent Walter
from considering his time his own for the
present. He had been sitting at his desk at the
bank, early in the afternoon, when the head
clerk had come out with a scared face, and had
whispered to him that he was wanted at once in
Mr. Boulger's private room. On obeying this
summons, he had found his uncle lying back in
his chair, snoring heavily and completely unconscious.


'We can't rouse him. Do you think we
ought to send for a doctor ? ' asked the head
clerk hesitatingly ; for Mr. Boulger had reduced
his vassals into so perfect a state of subordination
that he was very nearly in the same
predicament as that King of Spain who was
burnt to death because nobody dared to take
the liberty of knocking his Majesty down and
rolling him up in the hearthrug.

W alter did not scruple to take matters into
his own hands ; but the doctor, when he came,
could do very little, and candidly said so. The
old gentleman was lifted into his carriage, and
his nephew drove with him to Clapham, where
he resigned him to the care of the housekeeper,
promising to let the other members of the family

h 2

know what had happened, and to return himself
the next day. Then he went back to his rooms;
and if he speculated a little upon the contents of
Mr. Boulger's will on his way, I suppose he
only did what most of us would have done in
his place.

The truth was that Mr. Boulger had of late
let fall several hints which were of a nature to
encourage speculation upon this subject. He
had made little secret of the fact that he was a
richer man even than he was generally supposed
to be, and he had somewhat ostentatiously
declared that his nephew John should never see
a sixpence of his money. Besides this nephew
John, who, if he had behaved himself, would
have been the natural person to inherit his
uncle's wealth, there were sundry other Boulger s
of whom Walter knew scarcely anything ; but,
as the old gentleman had for many years been
upon bad terms with them all, it was impossible
to avoid the conclusion that he had fixed upon
some one else to be his heir. Walter was too
honest to pretend to himself that his uncle's
death would cause him any great grief. He did
not want the poor old fellow to die ; but he did,
of course, want very much to come into a large
fortune ; and, as he made his way towards his
lodgings in Bloomsbury through the heat and
dust of a July afternoon, he realised with great

distinctness what the possession of such a
fortune would mean in his case. Already he
saw Mrs. Wilmington smiling benignly on the
renewal of his suit ; he received the congratulations
of Lady Travers and heard the ironical
comments under which his father would be sure
to veil the thankfulness of a relieved mind.

And then he reached home, and found
Edith's letter waiting for him, and ceased forever
to think about stepping into dead men's
shoes. What could all the money in the world
do for him now? Mr. Boulger might leave his
to a hospital if he chose, Walter didn't want it.
Wishes me to remember what she said to me at
Longbourne, and to understand that it was the
truth,' he muttered. ' Oh, I understand it well
enough! I have understood it all along ; only
Lady Travers would insist upon knowing so
much better than I did. It wasn't such a very
hard matter to understand, after all. The girl
cared for me a little, but not enough to put up
with any hardship for my sake, and she told me
so. Then she thought I was forgetting all
about her, and she didn't quite like that ; so she
whistled me back. I came, like a fool as I was,
and of course she immediately discovered again
that she didn't care for me. Well ; I'm not
surprised. One thing is, I got through the
worst of it long ago. She isn't worth my

thinking about, and I'll be hanged if I Trill
think about her any more.'

Resolutions of this kind are more easily made
than carried out, and it would have been strange
if Walter had been able to dismiss Edith from
his mind as cavalierly as he proposed to do.
Fortunately for him, however, he had many
other things to think about. He had to put
himself in communication with Mr. John
Boulger; he had to write and inform his father
of the bereavement with which the family was
threatened ; and he was wanted at Clapham,
where decency seemed to require that the sick
man should have at least one relative in the house
with him.

On the second day Mr. Boulger died, never
having spoken since his seizure, and Walter
could not help perceiving that the servants
regarded him as the heir. It was to him they
came for instructions as to the funeral and so
forth, and he was a little puzzled how to act,
until the arrival of Mr. John Boulger from the
north of England relieved him of all authority
and embarrassment.

Mr. John Boulger was a middle-aged man,
who had probably quarrelled with his uncle inconsequence
of a too great similarity in their
dispositions. He was not particularly cordial
in his manner to Walter, nor, perhaps, under the

circumstances, could he have been expected to
be so; but he seemed disposed to make the best
of an unfortunate business.

The old man has not treated me well he
said; ' but I don't complain. I didn't choose to
truckle to him, and he told me plainly that he
meant to disinherit me. If you have been
more lucky, I shall not grudge you your luck.'

I don't think I have ever truckled to him,'
said Walter.

'Well, it makes no difference to me. I
wouldn't count too much upon anything, though,
if I were you. It would be just like my uncle
to have left every penny to his housekeeper.'

Mr. BoulgtT was interred with all the pomp
that the occasion appeared to call for, and his
hearse was followed to the grave by many empty
carriages and by a very respectable concourse of
relations, of whom Mr. Brune was one. Walter
had thought that his father ought to be present,
and Mr. John Boulger had concurred in this
view. Mr. Brune had journeyed up from Cray-minster,
and took his place in the drawing-room
at Clapham among the other gentlemen who
were waiting, with the exaggeratedly careless
demeanour which every one assumes at such
times, to hear the will read.

His name was among the first mentioned.
His brother-in-law had bequeathed him five

thousand pounds ' as a small token of regard.'
This legacy gave universal satisfaction. It
cleared one competitor off the field ; it seemed
large to Mr. Brune, who had never expected
anything ; and it was too small to be grudged
by anybody. A like amount went to two of the
Boulger clan, who received the news of their
good fortune much as a man who has bought a
half-crown ticket in a State lottery, and has
dreamt of securing the grand prize, receives the
news that he has won twenty pounds. Then
there was an almost imperceptible pause ; after
which the name of Walter Brune was read outwith
an emphasis and deliberation which seemed
to presage great things. 1 1 give and bequeath
to my nephew Walter Brune ' — another pause of
a second, during which the ears of all present
were pricked up — ' the sum of one hundred and
fifty thousand pounds.'

A profound sensation was caused by this
announcement. Walter himself did not dare to
raise his eyes from the carpet. He was not
astonished, nor, at the moment, was he particularly
delighted. He had felt sure that the old
man had meant to do something of the kind,
and the chief sensation of which he was conscious
was the unpleasant one that all these good
people must be regarding him as a robber and
supplanter. He was so ill at ease that he

hardly took in the sense of what the lawyer was
reading, which was to the effect that the testator
had desired thus to mark, not only his affection
for ' the said Walter Brune,' but his sense of the
injustice done in past years to the said Walter
Brune 's mother. Nor did he quite realise the
important fact that the residue of the estate,
real and personal, amounting to rather more
than double his share, went, after all, to Mr.
John Boulger, whose sterling worth and businesslike
qualities had, it appeared, been more
highly appreciated than that gentleman had
supposed.

I So you are a rich man,' said Mr. Brune to
his son, as they walked away, across Clapham
Common, arm in arm.

Yes answered Walter. ' I don't know
that I care much about it.'

4 You ungrateful young beggar ! Why, I
am jumping with joy at the thought of my poor
five thousand pounds. Your Uncle William
must have been worth over half a million of
money. Who would have thought it ! '

I I am very glad he didn't leave it all to me,'
remarked Walter. ' I was half afraid he would.'

So, I imagine, was John Boulger ; but both
your fears and his were groundless, you see ; so
you can rejoice with a clear conscience. Why
your uncle should have left you anything at all

I don't know; but we must presume that the
luck of the Brunes, which has been on the ebb
for so many years, has turned at last. It
certainly was about time.'

4 My luck hasn't turned,' remarked Walter
gloomily.

C I wouldn't be too sure of that. I know
what you mean — young fellows only mean one
thing when they speak in that lachrymose voice ;
but, if you won't think me too cynical, I would
venture to suggest deferentially that money turns
luck in more ways than one.'

It won't in my case,' answered Walter,
shaking his head. ' Mine is one of those hopeless
cases which nothing can mend, and there's no
good in talking about it.'

After that he was easily persuaded to talk
about it ; and, indeed, talked about nothing else
in the hansom which his father presently hailed,
and which took them to Bloomsbury, where
Edith's uncompromising letter was submitted
to Mr. Brune's inspection.

You see,' said Walter, ' there's no getting
over that. She tells me in black and white that
she'll have nothing more to say to me.'

Mr. Brune laughed. ' My dear boy,' said he,
\ you are too literal. Do you mean to say that
you can't trace the claws of the old cat in this?
As I read the letter, it simply means, " Mamma

has sworn to shut me up in a dark room, and
keep me on bread and water if ever I speak to
you again ; and so, much as I regret it, I must
beg you to cease following me about," '

i Perhaps that is what it does mean ; but
isn't that equivalent to saying that she cares
very little about me ? '

I don't know, I'm sure. Go and tell her
tomorrow that you have a matter of seven
thousand a year to lay at her feet, and no
doubt she will give you the desired information
herself.'

I shall not do that,' said Walter decisively.
I want her to care for me, not for my money ;
and supposing that she did accept me now how
could I tell what her motive might be?'

■ Ah, you are already beginning to find out
where the shoe of Dives pinches. But cheer up ;
you are not so tremendously opulent, when allis
said and done, and I have no doubt Edith
could make a much better bargain for herself if
she chose. I should be sorry to affirm positively
that Mrs.Winnington will welcome you evennow.'

i She won't have the chance,' said Walter.
'I have been played fast and loose with long
enough, and I am sick of it. I shall never
marry.'

If there were the smallest chance in the
world of your sticking to that resolution

answered his father, 'I might perhaps hesitate
to try and turn you from it ; but as there is
none, I think you had better marry your first
love — always supposing that she will have
you.'

Walter said he was convinced that she would
not have him ; but that, whether or no, he would
not humiliate himself by asking her again ; and
he adhered to this determination so obstinately
that his father, who sympathised with the young
man's feeling, though he foresaw that it would
not be a permanent one, ceased at last to press
the point. In the course of the evening, however,
he suggested a compromise.

1 1 mean to call upon our good friend Mrs.
Winnington tomorrow,' said he. ' Being in
town, you know, it will be only a proper act
of politeness to do so ; and if, at the same time,
I can find out how the land lies, I suppose you
won't be very angry with me.'

Walter, by way of reply, only shook hands
with his father, who laughed and said, 'Don't
mistake wounded vanity for pride, my boy.
You are the least vain man I ever met, so I
may say that to you. Now go to bed ; and
prepare yourself for a disappointment when I
come back and tell you that Edith is engaged
to a duke with a larger annual income than the
whole of your capital.'

CHAPTER XXXIV.

MRS. STANNIFORTH CAN'T CONTROL HER NERVES.

Colonel Kenton was very patient and very-steadfast;
but his patience was not absolutely
inexhaustible, and in the six-and-fortieth year
of his age and the eighteenth of Margaret's reign
over his heart, he was beginning to bethink himself
that steadfastness had been of little service
to him in the past, while it was certain that
patience could not help him much in the future.
What was the good of being patient when there
was nothing to wait for and nothing to expect?

Women,' said Colonel Kenyon solemnly, one
evening after mess, to the old friend who sat on
his right hand, l are the very deuce, unless you
understand how to deal with them. Some men,
you know, treat them as toys, and I believe
that's the right plan ; but if you can't manage
that, why, the less you have to say to them the
better. At least, that's my view ; I don't know
whether it's yours.'

The above disparaging estimate of the

opposite sex was due in no small degree to
the extraordinary behaviour of Mrs. Stanniforth,
who, a short time before this, had written somewhat
coldly to inform Hugh that Philip's engagement
to Nellie Brune was broken off — 'which
said she, l you will consider good news no
doubt' — and who had at the same time mentioned
that, as she was about to let her house
for an indefinite period, and could not say
exactly what her address might be at first, she
would be unable to correspond with him quite
so regularly as she had lately done. An urgent
written request for more precise information had
remained unanswered ; and thus it was that
Hugh had arrived at the pardonable conclusion
that women are the very deuce.

But, although he tried hard to be angry,
he made but a partial success of it. He knew
that, however foolish might be Margaret's
motives for desiring to shroud her movements
in mystery, they would not be selfish ones ; and
when he learnt that Mrs. Wilmington was entertaining
fashionable circles in London, and that
Marescalchi had been seen disporting himself in
the highest of society, a painful suspicion crossed
his mind that economy might be found to be at
the root of this sudden wish for change. He
had heard with much satisfaction of the collapse
of Philip's grand scheme for turning things

topsy-turvy at Longbourne ; but this satisfaction
had been tempered with anxiety ; for,
Brune or no Brune, there Philip remained, an
expensive encumbrance, who would never earn
a penny for himself to the end of his days, and
who, as it appeared, was not a whit abashed by
his failure, nor any less extravagant in his tastes
than of yore.

Business and his destiny took Colonel Kenyon
up to London in the last days of July. Business
kept him at the War Office all the morning, and
his destiny led him in the course of the afternoon
to a place which it had never been one of
his habits to frequent on week-days. He was
walking down a certain street, on his way to his
club, when an open church door, through which
a sound of subdued chanting escaped into the
outer ah', attracted his attention. He stopped
and peered into the gloom. He thought it
looked very cool and quiet and peaceful in
there, and, after hesitating for a moment, he
took off his hat and stole softly up the aisle on
tiptoe. The service was nearly over, and Hugh
had not been five minutes in church when the
congregation, which was not a large one, was
dismissed. He lingered awhile, thinking of that
morning, nearly a year ago, when he had knelt behind
Margaret in the little church at Longbourne,
and wondering where she was now. Then he

turned, with a sigh, to go away, and, behold!
there she was, at his elbow.

She was still kneeling, and her face was
hidden in her hands ; but Hugh knew her atone
e, despite the rather strange garb in which
she was attired. She wore a close-fitting black
straw bonnet, without ornament of any kind,
and a long black cloak enveloped her from head
to foot.

I thought as much,' muttered Hugh to
himself. ' This is that old Jack-in-the-green
Langley's doing. Now, if he has made her take
vows, or any tomfoolery of that kind, hang me
if I don't go down and wring his old neck ! '

Then he remembered where he was, and
moved hastily off to the porch, where he felt
that he could with more propriety indulge in
profane ejaculations, while waiting for Margaret.
He had to wait some time. Once or twice he
peeped in to make sure that she had not escaped
by some side door ; but she was still there, in
the same attitude, and motionless ; and Hugh
was made uncomfortable by the verger, who
eyed him at first inquiringly, and then suspiciously,
as a responsible person, with valuable
church plate under his charge, and a dread of
swell-moisten before his mind, might be excused
for doing.

At length Margaret rose, and made her way

towards the door with a slow, dragging step.
Hugh could see that she seemed to be steadying
herself by the benches as she walked ; but he
could not distinguish her features until the sunlight
fell upon them. Then he started back,
with an exclamation of horror. She was extremely
pale, there were black circles under her
eyes, her face was drawn as after a long illness,
and as she stepped out into the air she coughed
in a manner which caused Hugh's heart to stop
beating for an instant. Before he could speak,
she had caught sight of him.

c Oh, Hugh ! ' she cried, ' have you come
here to look for me ? Oh, how glad I am ! You
must take me home, Hugh. I can't bear it any
longer; and I feel so dreadfully ill, I think I
must be going to die. What made you think of
coming here for me ? '

Her manner was very odd and excited, her
voice shook, and she trembled so much that
Hugh instinctively held out his arm to support
her. His consternation was extreme ; but he
endeavoured not to show it, nor did he ask any
questions, for he saw that Margaret was really
ill, and that it behoved him to rise to the level
of the occasion. The first tiling to be done, he
thought, was to get her home and send for the
doctor ; explanations might come later.

Therefore he lost no time in calling a

VOL. III. o

hansom, and said, reassuringly, ' Yes, yes ; I have
come to look after you : and here's the cab, you
see, waiting. You'll be all right now

Margaret laughed rather hysterically. 8 You
think I have gone out of my mind,' said she,
but I assure you I am perfectly sane. Seeing
you so suddenly startled me, and I began to
talk nonsense. Of course you could not really
have known that I was here. 1 caught a bad
cold when I first came to London, and I went
out too soon after it, and since then I have been
trying to do things which are beyond me ; and
the consequence is that I have broken down
altogether, and '

'Never mind about all that, 7 interrupted
Hugh. ' I have come just in time to pick you
up, you see. Now, if you'll let me help you
into the hansom, we'll be off.'

Margaret submitted without a word. It
struck her as quite natural that her companion
should take up that authoritative tone, and she
rather liked it. He, on his side, in the midst of
all his alarm and distress, was conscious of a
certain inward exultation at her obedience. It
seemed as if at last, after so many years, he and
she had found their proper respective positions.

4 Where shall I tell the man to drive to ? ' he
asked.

This very natural request produced a curious

effect upon Margaret. ' I did not think of that,'
she murmured, shrinking back into the corner
of the cab. ' I am staying at a Nurses' Institution.
Oh, Hugh, do you know, I don't think I
can go back there ! '

Hugh, who was standing up with his back to
the horse, uttered an aspiration with regard to
Mr. Langley, which was unheard by Margaret,
and which, it may be hoped, did not shock the
cabman. He stooped down to say cheerfully,
Of course you are not going back there. I was
only doubting whether you would like to go to
Mrs. Winnington, or '

c Oh, no I ' said Margaret, quickly.

'No, to be sure. Not to Mrs. Winnington.
Then — let me see — where shall we go ? '

■ How silly you are ! ' exclaimed Margaret,
half-laughing, half crying ; ' why do you talk tome
as if I were an escaped lunatic ? I had better
go to lodgings somewhere, I suppose. Don't
you know of any ? '

Hugh at once thought of a certain quiet
hotel, much frequented by the clerical dignitaries
of Crayminster, where both he and Margaret
had been known from childhood. He gave
this address to the cabman and then sat down
beside Margaret.

You are very good,' said she. And after
a pause, ' I ought to explain my ridiculous 

2

saviour. You know I wrote to you that I was
going away from Longbourne for a time. The
fact is, I took a fancy to learn nursing, so I
applied to Mr. Langley, who got them to take
me in at this Institution.'

i Brutes ! ' muttered Hugh, who was in a
state of boiling indignation, which he had some
difficulty in repressing. ' So they have been
starving you and ill-treating you, have they ? '

Oh, dear no ! they have been as kind as
possible ; it was all my own fault. They told
me I was not the least fit for the work, and I
am afraid they were right.'

Hugh grunted. 4 And I suppose it was
they who made you dress yourself up in this —
this waterproof thing,' said he, looking with
much disfavour at Margaret's long garment.

1 It isn't waterproof,' she answered, with a
little laugh. ' If it had been, perhaps I shouldn't
have got wet through on the first day, which
was the beginning of all my troubles. They
couldn't let me wear their dress, you see, as I
don't belong to the order ; but of course they
expect anyone staying with them to adopt some
unremarkable sort of costume ; so I did my
best. I am afraid I have not succeeded very
well in making myself unremarkable,' she added
ruefully.

4 Not very,' Hugh agreed.

1 That is the worst of being so tall ; the
more one tries to efface oneself the more certain
one is of looking a conspicuous guy. Oh, Hugh,
how delightful it is to see you again ! I feel a
thousand times better already. There is nothing
the matter with me, really, and I believe I ought
to go back to the Institution.'

1 You may as well make up your mind at
once that you will never cross the threshold
of that establishment again,' answered Hugh.
1 As soon as I have seen you comfortably settled
in the hotel, I mean to go there and tell them
that you have bolted. If that don't suit them,
I can't help it.'

In moments of great perturbation Colonel
Kenyon always felt a longing to go at somebody's
throat, and he almost hoped to discover
some proof of cruelty or neglect on the part of
these charitable ladies, so that he might relieve
his feelings by giving them an outsider's candid
opinion of them and all their works. Meanwhile
there were more important things to bethought
of.

Rooms were obtained at the hotel without
difficulty, and Hugh explained to the landlady
that Mrs. Stanniforth's visit had been rather
hastily decided upon, and that her luggage
might be expected to arrive before long. Then
he ordered some tea, insisted upon having a

fire lighted, though the thermometer stood at
seventy-five degrees in the shade, and bustled
about, opening and shutting doors and windows
in some perplexity as to what ought to be done
next.

Margaret sat passively watching him, too
weary to question his proceedings.

Where's your maid ? ' he asked abruptly.

'Oh, she is with her friends! I couldn't
bring her with me, you know.'

4 1 never heard of such a thing ! Give me
her address, please.'

And in a few minutes a telegram was on its
way to the young woman in question desiring
her immediate attendance upon her mistress.

1 And now,' said Hugh, ' I think I'd better
go off to that in — ahem ! — Institution, and get
your things.'

The Lady Superior who received Colonel
Kenyon was a stout person, whose habiliments
closely resembled those worn by the Sisters of
St. Vincent-de-Paul. She listened to her visitor's
communication blandly, and fully concurred
in his observation that Mrs. Stanniforth
ought never to have been allowed to go to such
a place at all. It was, she added, quite against
their rules to make these irregular arrangements,
and she had only consented to do so in
this instance as a particular favour to one

whom she greatly esteemed. But she smiled
in a rather provoking way when Hugh went onto
assert that Mrs. Stanniforth had ' half killed
herself.'

4 1 think said she, c you will find that there
is nothing very serious the matter. Mrs. Stan-north
appears to have a very highly-strung
nervous temperament, and I believe she has
been rather upset by what she has seen at the
hospital. Probably a few days' rest will be all
that will be required to set her right.'

4 God bless my soul ! ' exclaimed Hugh, ' do
you mean to say that you have been taking her
to see people's legs and arms cut off ? Well,
this is outrageous ! '

The Lady Superior continued to smile in a
manner that was at once superior and ladylike.
'When people wish to learn nursing,' she remarked,
' the first thing they have to do is to
learn to control their nerves. Otherwise they
are not likely to be of much use. Mrs . Tannin
by her own wish, has begun with the ordinary
course ; but she does not seem to have come
to us with any intention of persevering in the
work, and, that being so, it is of course better
that she should leave us. Indeed, as I told you
before, we should not have received her, if Mr.
Langley had not made a personal point of it.'

4 1 shall make a personal point of giving

Mr. Langley a piece of my mind the next time
I meet him,' cried Colonel Kenyon, disappointed
in his hope of coming to loggerheads with this
urbane lady, who only smiled again, and looked
at him as if she thought him a very foolish
person indeed.

His next step was to go off for the doctor,
who, as might have been anticipated, was not at
home. He left a message for him, begging him
to call on Mrs. Stanniforth the first thing in the
morning, and then returned to the hotel, where
he was pleased to find his invalid looking much
more like herself. There was a faint colour in
her cheeks now, and she had regained something;
of her ordinary serenity of demeanour ; but she
scarcely touched the dinner which, at her request,
Hugh shared with her, and every time that she
coughed the anxious Colonel became hot and
cold all over.

I can't tell you how ashamed I feel - of
myself,' she said. ' I always knew that I was
a poor creature, but I had no idea of how bad
I was until they took me to see all those
horrors.' And she shuddered at the recollection.


Don't speak of it ! ' exclaimed Hugh. c As
for the man Langley '

1 Now, Hugh, you must not scold poor Mr.
Langley, please. It was I who asked him to

get me into some place of the kind, and lie took
an immense deal of trouble to arrange it forme.'


4 The more fool he ! He ouoiit to have had
the sense to see that your health would never
stand that sort of thing. What could have
tempted you to go in for it ? '

1 Well, I was obliged to find some way of
abolishing myself for a time. If I tell you
how it was, will you promise not to be angry
with me ? '

I'll promise not to be angry with you,
answered Hugh, only laying a slight stress upon
the last word, so as to be at the same time
truthful and to reserve his future liberty of
sentiment.

c I was getting into difficulties : that is the
truth. If I had remained at Longbourne, I
should have been in serious trouble before the
autumn ; so I decided to let the house, dismiss
the servants, and live upon as little as I could
for three months. I haven't quite carried out
my plan, you see ; but, as Tom Stanniforth has
taken the place and all my expenses are so much
reduced, I think I shall be able to get on now.'

My dear Margaret, why in the world did
you not apply to me? Of course, you could
have had any money that you required,' said
Hugh, bethinking himself that if difficulties

had arisen with his co-executor, it would have
been a simple matter for him to sell out a
thousand or so of his own, and say nothing
about it.

Oh, I dared not do that! I felt that I was
in disgrace with old Mr. Stanniforth as it was.
And, besides, I should have had to ask for so
much. I — there was a rather sudden call made
upon me,' added Margaret, hesitatingly.

i I see,' said Hugh. And presently he
inquired, with all the indifference that he
could muster, ' Which of them was it, this
time ? '

Margaret made no reply ; so he repeated his
question, and then she looked up at him deprecatingly.


1 Must I say? ' she asked.

4 Oh, not unless you like. Only I know it
was one or other of them ; so you might as well
tell me which it was. As a matter of curiosity,
I should rather like to know.'

1 Well, it was Philip, then. It is so difficult
to speak to you about Philip, Hugh ; because
you are always sure to be against him, and I
know he has done many foolish things. But we
all do foolish things sometimes ; and what more
can you expect of any one than that he should
say he is sorry ? '

c You might expect him to be sorry, perhaps.'

4 So lie was sorry. He was more than
sorry ; he was perfectly wretched, poor fellow !
And if he has sinned, he has been punished.
Even you will allow that the discovery which
he made about his father's marriage was a
terrible blow. 7

4 Oh, that was a great sell, no doubt.'

1 And then there was his quarrel with Xellie,
which was worse. I must say that I think his
punishment has been severe enough. He came
home on purpose to confess everything to me,
poor boy ; and, after all, it was nothing so very
unpardonable that he had to confess.'

Colonel Kenyon, who considered Marescalchi
altogether unpardonable, held his peace while
the history of Philip's brief married life, and of
the gambling debt which he had been so unfortunate
as to incur, was being related. He
held his peace, because he did not wish to vex
Margaret ; but it cost him no small effort to do
so, and he changed the subject as soon as possible
by inquiring after Mrs. Winnington, l who
must have been feeling very anxious about you,
I should think,' said he. ' Did you tell her
what you were doing in London ? '

6 Oh, no ! ' answered Margaret ; c I thought
it better not to let her know that I was in London
at all. It would only have spoilt her
pleasure and Edith's.'

'But where did they think you were? I
presume you must have told them something

4 Well, I gave them a sort of a hint said
Margaret.

Oh, a sort of a hint ! And with that they
were quite satisfied, I suppose.'

Colonel Kenyon had to shut his mouth very
tight to keep himself from saying more ; and he
was not sorry when the arrival of Margaret's
maid gave him an opportunity for retiring
without further mention of the names of Philip
and Mrs. Wilmington. But, as he walked away,
he said to himself that if somebody would take
those two persons and throw them neck and
crop into the Thames, society would be rid of
two of its most worthless members.

Colonel Kenyon, who did not hastily condemn
his neighbours, was very thorough in his
condemnation of them when once he had satisfied
himself that they ought to be condemned:
in like manner, being slow to wrath, his anger,
if roused, was hardly to be appeased by anything
short of blood-letting. A night's rest, therefore,
brought about no change in his feelings towards
that ungrateful pair, and he was still further
incensed, in the course of the morning, by the
doctor, who was pleased to couch his report in a
tone of gentle remonstrance.

1 Mrs. Stanniforth really requires careful

looking after ; she lias had a narrow escape of a
serious illness. I told her mother, years ago,
that she was a person who might easily become
consumptive ; and consumption, as I need
hardly tell you, is just one of those diseases
which attack you when you are down. She
tells me she has let her place, and I am very
glad to hear it. Get Mrs. Wilmington to go
abroad with her, as she did before, and keep
her abroad for the winter. She must be
amused ; and she really must not be allowed to
play these tricks with herself.'

1 I'll speak to Mrs. Winning ton said Hugh,
rather grimly.

1 I think you had better do so ; and impress
upon her that, unless she wishes to lose her
daughter, she must take more care of her. Mrs.
Stanniforth is not a person who can take care of
herself.'

To lose her ! ' repeated Hugh, aghast.
Do you think there is serious mischief, then ? '

1 There is a certain amount of mischief,
which may be checked, I hope. She has had a
bad cold and neglected it ; but that is not
exactly the cause of her present illness. She
is suffering: from nervous derangement ; the
result, no doubt, of worry or anxiety of some
kind, seconded by a shock to which she ought
never to have been exposed. There is no

occasion to alarm Mrs. Wilmington ; but at the
same time she should be made to understand
that the case is one which requires care and
attention.'

Such a verdict as this was not calculated to
soothe Colonel Kenyon's ire, and Margaret had
much ado to keep him from rushing off to Park
Street, with peremptory marching-orders, before
luncheon.

4 It is all nonsense about my going abroad
at once,' she said ; ' and I am not at all sure
that it would suit my mother to start directly.
At all events, if I have to go, I am quite old
enough to go by myself now. I don't think
there is any necessity for your seeing her,
Hugh.'

Margaret, in truth, was beginning to be
afraid of what Colonel Kenyon might say or do,
when he found himself in Park Street, and
would gladly have gone thither instead of him,
had she not been quite as much afraid of what
her mother might say, on receiving the confession
which would have to be made. She
.knew that, when once Mrs. Winnington set to
work to ask questions, it would be impossible
to conceal the fact that 5,000/. had recently
been paid to Philip, and she shrank from the
inevitable scene which must follow.

c I certainly shall go and see her,' Hugh

said resolutely ; ' and I should imagine that she
will make her convenience suit yours. At least,

if she doesn't However, I have no doubt

she will.'

If you do go,' said Margaret, after a pause,
will you promise me something as a great
favour ? '

'What is it?'

Only to say nothing about Philip. It
would distress me very much if you did, and it
would be rather unfair to him, I think. Perhaps
I shouldn't have told you as much as I did last
night, if I had had all my wits about me.'

Hugh considered for a moment, and then
said, ' Very well ; I won't mention his name if
I can help it. By the way, where did you say
that Marescalchi was living ? '

Margaret knew that she had given no information
upon this point, and she was not
anxious to do so now. 4 You are not going to
see him, are you ? ' she asked apprehensively.

Oh,' answered Hugh, in a careless tone, c I
thought I might look him up, perhaps, if I had
time. But I suppose I can find out his address
at his club.'

This was, unfortunately, only too certain,
and Margaret saw that it would be unwise, as
well as useless, to make a secret of what could
be so easily discovered ; so she said, ' He was

staying at Johnson's Hotel in Berkeley Square
when I last heard from him ; but that is sometime
ago now.'

Hugh took a mental note both of the address
and of the circumstance that Philip did not
trouble himself to write often to his benefactress ;
soon after which he picked up his hat and stick,
remarking that, if he didn't make haste, he
should hardly catch Mrs. Winnington at home.

The last thing that Margaret said to him,
after repeatedly cautioning him against making
a great fuss about a small matter, was, ' You
will be back again soon, won't you?' and the
significance of this query gave Hugh matter for
reflection which lasted him throughout his walk.

CHAPTER XXXV.

HONOURS DIVIDED.

The ways of deceit are seldom ways of pleasantness
; and Edith Wilmington soon found that
the part which she had set herself to play was
so full of difficulty and discomfort as to be very
nearly insupportable. In the first place, Mr.
Stanniforth, who abhorred crooked dealing
above all things, was as clumsy a fellow-conspirator
as ever a poor girl was afflicted with.
If he would have simply turned and fled whenever
Mrs. Winnington entered the room, the
maintenance of the plot would have been less
hopeless ; but this he would not do. He seemed
to think that, having taken upon himself to
delude a fellow-creature, it behoved him to
make believe a great deal ; and, instead of
chatting naturally about vivisection, as of yore,
he took to paying wild and improbable compliments,
to jerking out pretty phrases too evidently
learnt by heart, and to suggesting agreeable
projects with an indescribably sheepish air

VOL. III. p

while Mrs. Wilmington sat staring at him, as
if she had some faint idea that he was going out
of his mind.

Nor was this exasperating conduct the worst
of what Edith had to endure at the hands of
her well-meaning friend. From the moment of
that meeting with Walter Brune at the Botanical
Gardens, Tom had made up his mind to bring
about the happy union of Miss Wilmington
with the young man whom he hoped some
day to call his brother-in-law. This end, no
doubt, might be achieved in many ways, it
being evidently only a question of money ; but
it was important to ascertain, before proceeding
to action, what Walter's tastes were, what
career he considered himself best fitted for, and
how a comfortable income could be provided for
him without wearing too much the appearance
of a gift. Mr. Stanniforth would have been
been very glad, therefore, if Miss Wilmington
would kindly have taken him into her full confidence,
and the nods and winks and oracular
speeches in which he indulged, by way of encouraging
her thereto, were indeed enough to
have tried the patience of Job. Edith could
not tell him that she had broken off all relations
with Walter ; neither could she by any means
make him understand that the subject was
painful to her ; and, what with Tom's provoking

stupidity upon the one hand and her
mother's suspicious acuteness upon the other,
she began at length to ask herself whether it
would not be a great deal better to hasten the
inevitable hour, to sever the hair which sustained
the impending sword, and have done
with it.

The courage of despair came to Edith's aid
one morning, when her mother had been subjecting
her to a more than usually severe course
of interrogation, and, with a calmness which
astonished herself, she said :

I think I had better tell you that I have
refused Mr. Stanniforth.'

Mrs. Winnington immediately went through
a sort of pantomime of dropping down dead.
Verbal comment would, she felt, be absurdly
inadequate to the occasion, and for some minutes
she would do nothing but gasp and groan.
When, however, she did recover the use of her
tongue, she employed it with all that vigour of
which she was a mistress. She scolded, she
entreated, she wept copiously ; finally she declared
that Edith was a silly girl who did not
know her own mind, and that she herself would
make it her business to console poor Mr. Tannin
and to let him know that his rejection
was not meant to be taken seriously.

Thus there was nothing for it but to explain
p 2

that Mr. Staimiforth stood in no need of consolation
; and so, by degrees, the whole truth
came out, and Mrs. Winnington received the
crushing intelligence that not only was another
to bear away the prize, but that that other's
chance of doing so was the result of Edith's
officiousness in enlightening the wretched man
as to the state of his own affections.

There is no saying what might not have
happened to the offender after this, if a ring at
the door-bell had not caused an abrupt suspension
of hostilities.

Not at home ! ' gasped Mrs. Winnington,
from the sofa. { Go and tell them, not at home ! '

But either Edith was too late, or she thought
only of effecting her own escape ; for the next
moment Colonel Kenyon was announced, and,
striding into the room, beheld the foe with
whom he had come to wage war prostrate upon
her sofa, dishevelled as to her hair, and very
red and swollen as to her eyes and nose.

'How do you do?' said Mrs. Winnington.
I don't know why they let you come up. I
am not in a state to receive visitors. I am very
ill indeed.'

1 Oh! ' said Hugh, a good deal disconcerted ;
for he felt that the force of his attack must now
be greatly weakened. ' What is the matter with
you ? Gout again ? '

I believe,' answered Mrs. Wilmington
impressively, ' that I am about to diei

Oh, I don't think so ; you don't look like it
at all,' said Hugh, with conspicuous lack of
sympathy.

I do not know,' rejoined Mrs. Winnington,
c what I may look like; but I know what I feel.
However, I have no wish to weary you with my
complaints. I have never talked about my
health, nor taken care of it, as you are aware.
Perhaps, if I had thought less of others and
more of myself, as Cardinal Wolsey said, I should
not be in the condition that I am in now.'

I didn't know that Cardinal Wolsey had
said that,' remarked Hugh ; ' but to the best of
my belief you have no reason to reproach yourself
on that score, Mrs. Winnington. You
haven't thought too much about Margaret of
late, it seems to me.'

Really, Hugh,' cried Mrs. Winnington, ' I
am not prepared to be lectured by you. Margaret
and I perfectly understand one another,
and we do not require to be taught our duty by
anybody. Dear Margaret would be the first
person to protest against an insinuation that she
had been neglected.'

i That may be ; but her protesting wouldn't
alter the fact that she is neglected. Why, you
don't even know where she is ! '

1 I don't quite understand what you mean
by taking up this tone, Hugh, and, if we were
not such very old friends, I should be inclined to
put a stop to it. I certainly do not know dear
Margaret's address ; but that is only because
she has thought lit to conceal it from me. I
must say that I think Margaret has behaved
with some want of consideration for me ; but I
have never hinted that I felt this in writing to
her, nor have I attempted in any way to interfere
with her plans. To speak of my not having
thought about her is nonsense. I suppose that
no one but you would have brought such a
ridiculous accusation as that against me. The
truth is that I have been, and am, most anxious
to know where she has been all this time.'

1 Well,' said Hugh, conscious that the case
for the defence was being conducted with some
ability, ' I can give you the information that
you are so anxious for. She has been in a
Nurses' Institution ; and I am sorry to say that
she has made herself rather seriously ill. Yesterday,
by a fortunate chance, I happened to
meet her, and I was able to persuade her to
leave the place at once. It was not a day too
soon, I can tell you.'

A Nurses' Institution ! you don't mean to
say so ! How very extraordinary poor dear
Margaret is ! Of course you were quite right

to take her away — especially if she is going to
be ill. It is nothing catching, I hope.'

c No; you need not be afraid of going to see
her. It is the old trouble again. At least, it is
partly that and partly nervous prostration, the
doctor says.'

Dear me ! Well, I don't wonder, I'm sure.
What can you expect, if people will do such
absurd and uncalled-for things ? '

i She had her reasons,' answered Hugh,
shortly. He was dying to say what those
reasons were ; but he remembered his promise
to repeat nothing of Philip's iniquities, and
though, for his own part, he thought there was
not a pin to choose between Mrs. W T bennington
and the other delinquent, he could not conscientiously
assert that the cost of the establishment
in Park Street was the direct cause of
Margaret's retrenchment.

As for my going to see her,' Mrs. Winning-ton
went on, 'I don't know how long it may be*
before I am able to manage that ; I have not
been out of the house for three weeks. But I
will send Edith. Where is dear Margaret now?'

Deliberately and at some length, as his habit
was, Hugh stated the provisional arrangements
which he had made on Margaret's behalf, gave
an account of the condition in which he had
found her, and reported the course of treatment

recommended by the doctor. The interview
was not passing off at all in the manner which
he had anticipated. His firm intention had
been to tell Mrs. Wilmington plainly that she
was an old monster of selfishness, and, if possible,
to make her thoroughly ashamed of herself for
once ; but now he did not quite see his way
to doing this. Mrs. Wilmington was not in the
least ashamed of herself, and spoke with so much
affection and sympathy of poor dear Margaret
that it seemed as if all hope of plain speaking
must be abandoned.

c Of course you will prepare to take her
abroad directly,' said he, in conclusion, half
hoping that the old lady would make some objection.
And in this she did not disappoint him.

1 1 don't know about directly,' she answered.
1 1 meant to have gone to Homburg as soon as I
was able to travel ; but things have happened
which may oblige me to change my plans. As
for remaining a whole winter out of England,
that I certainly cannot do ; and I am quite
certain that dear Margaret will not be so unreasonable
as to expect it of me.'

Already Mrs. Wilmington had realised the
necessity cf discovering a successor for the faithless
Stanniforth, and she felt that it would never
do to waste the best part of a year in wandering
through foreign lands. ' You must remember,'

she continued, ' that Margaret is not my only
daughter, and that I cannot always be with her.
I have tried to leave her as little alone as I could ;
but it is impossible that I should be altogether
at her disposal, and I have made some engagements
for the autumn which I must fulfil. That
is, if I live so long,' she added, remembering that
she had just predicted her speedy dissolution.

1 In other words, rather than give up a few
visits, you would leave Margaret to the tender
mercies of a doctor and a lady's maid, hundreds
of miles away from all her friends.'

4 What your object can be in saying rude
and false things about me, Hugh, I cannot
imagine. Of course dear Margaret must have
some one with her, and if she were really ill I
should go to her at once. But I don't think
it likely that matters are as bad as you make
out, and there would be no difficulty in finding
some one to take my place. Why should not
you go with her ? '

This suggestion caused a slight flush to
mount into Hugh's sunburnt cheeks. l I am
afraid,' said he, ' that would hardly do. Aged
as I am, Margaret and I could not very well
travel about together alone.'

I really don't know why you should not ;
you are almost like her guardian. But it would
be quite easy to discover a third person ; or

Margaret might even engage a companion if
necessary. However, all these matters can be
discussed later ; just now I do not feel up to
talking any more. Will you give my best love to
dear Margaret, please, and tell her that if she will
come and see me, I shall be so glad? Edith will
go to her as soon as she has a spare moment

1 Very well ; I will give her that message,'
answered Hugh, getting up, and as he went
downstairs, he tried to console himself by reflecting
that he would probably have done more
harm than good if he had succeeded in picking
a quarrel with Mrs. Winnington.

1 But the other,' thought he, ' is different.
He is a man. I can deal with him, I think.'

Hugh did not ask himself whether any good
purpose would be served by his quarrelling with
c the other.' His feeling was that these two
people ought really to be made to see themselves
in their true colours, and that, if he didn't do
them this service, nobody would. So, in full
confidence of the righteousness of his purpose,
he marched off to Berkeley Square, and, on
hearing that Mr. Marescalchi was at home, declined
to send in his card,* saying that he would
go straight upstairs. Philip, he thought, should
not have the chance of refusing to receive him.
He was not asked to mount any higher than the
first floor, and it added fuel to the flames of his

indignation to be shown into a spacious sitting-room
adorned with much gilding and crimson
damask and many mirrors.

4 You have dropped into pretty comfortable
quarters here,' he remarked, almost before Philip
had had time to say ' How do you do ? '

Mr. Marescalchi, who had been lying on the
sofa, smoking a cigarette, resumed his recumbent
attitude, and blew a cloud of smoke towards the
ceiling. ' They wouldn't be bad,' he replied, ' if
they were not so execrably furnished. It is pain
and grief to have to sit in such a gaudy room as
this. But one can't have everything ; and the
hotel is tolerably comfortable in other respects.'

I have no doubt it is. Tolerably expensive
too, I should think.'

Oh, of course. You can't live in a London
hotel during the season for nothing ; and from
what I hear, I should say that this was about
the most ruinous establishment of the lot. Still,
when one has the means, you know '

Hugh exploded like a bomb. ' The means !
Deuce take it all, Marescalchi, this is rather too
good a joke ! Do you think I don't know where
your means come from? Are you aware, sir,
that Margaret has had to pinch and screw, and
put down her establishment, and reduce herself
to — to positive indigence, by George! in order
to provide you with the means of lying on your

back on that sofa and smoking your beastly
cigarettes all day ? '

i They aren't beastly, really said Philip,
mildly ; i they're the best I can get. Won't you
try one ? These are not my rooms, by the way ;
they are occupied by Signora Tommasini, who
kindly allows me to make use of them. I
myself am lodged in a humble little apartment
looking out upon the leads, w r here the cats sit
and howl at me all night. You would feel quite
sorry for me, if you saw it.'

Hugh was conscious that, in his haste, he
had brought matters to something very like an
anticlimax ; but he didn't care much about that.
'I don't know about being sorry for you,' he
said ; ' I can assure you that it would rejoice
me greatly to think that you were suffering a
little discomfort.'

You don't say so ! — how very odd ! There's
no accounting for tastes ; but, for my own part,
I dislike nothing more than to see people uncomfortable.
It is very nearly as bad as being
uncomfortable oneself.'

Is that why you have taken care not to see
Margaret lately? She has been in discomfort,
and something more than discomfort, through
you. Well ; I don't wonder that you have kept
out of her way. It can't be very pleasant, I
should think, to know that your extravagance

has brought her to such straits that she has had
to take to learning nursing in a sisterhood, byway
of saving money, and that she has sacrificed
her health by it. For anything that I know,
she may have sacrificed her life too ; for she is
not in a state to do such things with impunity.'
Whether Philip was touched, or conscience-stricken,
or alarmed, or whether he was perfectly
indifferent, there was nothing in his face or voice
to indicate. L Don't you think you are just the
least bit in the world unreasonable, Colonel
Kenyon? ' he asked. ' I knew that Longbourne
was let ; but I knew nothing more, for the
simple reason that Meg did not choose to tell
me anything more.'

4 1 wish to God you wouldn't call her by
that name!' exclaimed Hugh, with a sudden
outburst of impatience.

c I am sorry that it should have the effect of
irritating you so much ; but, as I have never
called her anything else all my life, I am afraid
I must continue to do so, at the risk of beings
through the body with your umbrella. I
was saying that Meg kept me completely in the
dark as to her movements. She gave me to
understand that she didn't wish me to ask
questions, and, naturally, I could only respect
her wishes.'

- Oh, yes; that is Mrs. Winnington's excuse;

but you'll allow me to tell you that, in my
opinion, it is no excuse at all. It is just
possible that Mrs. Winnington may not have
known that Margaret had been exceeding her
income ; but you, at all events, were well aware
of the demands that have been made upon her,
and you cannot have had much doubt about the
reason of her giving up her home. The very
least that you could have done would have been
to find out what had become of her. I shall
not appeal to you to leave her in peace for the
future, for I know that would not be of the
slightest use ; but you may as well understand
that, after this, you will have to keep your
expenditure within the limits of a fixed annual
sum. I have determined to take matters into
my own hands, and to put a stop to this system
of wholesale robbery.'

'• Colonel Kenyon,' said Philip, in a rather
graver tone, l you have always had the worst
possible opinion of me, and you are heartily
welcome to it. Pray believe that your opinion
is a matter of the most absolute indifference tome.
More than once you have taken upon
yourself to interfere in my affairs in a helter-skelter,
blundering sort of way, and I haven't
complained. It is your nature to be like that,
I suppose, and I don't quarrel with you for it,
any more than one quarrels with dogs for delighting

to bark and bite. Perhaps, however,
it would be pushing forbearance too far to allow
oneself to be called a wholesale robber ; and
therefore I must respectfully invite you to
retract that expression.'

Hugh was stroking his moustache with lean
brown fingers which trembled a little. At this
direct throwing down of the gauntlet his eyes
glistened. ' I won't retract a single word that
I have said he replied shortly.

'You won't?' returned Philip, deliberately
swinging his legs off the sofa, and assuming a
sitting posture, while he looked his visitor
straight in the eyes. ' You won't retract the
expression? Then we must proceed to extremities,
I'm afraid. I thought perhaps you
might have insulted me without quite meaning
it, for your temper seems to have got rather out
of hand ; but, since you choose to stick to your
words, I can only ask you to give me your
address, so that I may send a friend to call
upon you tomorrow.'

You young jackanapes ! ' called out Hugh,
4 do you suppose I am going to fight a duel with
you? I'll see you hanged first! '

Philip raised his eyebrows. ' You won't
fight, and you won't retract? I suppose you
know what is generally said of a man who acts
in that way.'

I'll tell you what,' said Hugh, getting up ;
1 I won't fight a duel, because it's ridiculous,
and nobody ever does fight duels in this
country; but if you would like to call me a
coward, you had better do it — and I'll give you
such a hammering that you won't do it again
for a year.'

Philip did not take advantage of this handsome
offer. He looked at his angry antagonist
for a minute with a certain amused curiosity,
and then burst out laughing.

What a ludicrous position we have got
into ! ' he exclaimed. l We both look rather
foolish ; but, vanity apart, I must say I think
you look the more foolish of the two. My
height is five foot nine ; yours, I suppose, is
about six foot two or three ; and in weight and
length of reach there is probably an even greater
disproportion between us. Therefore I see
nothing to be ashamed of in acknowledging that,
if it came to a regular ding-dong tussle between
us, you could thrash me. But I think it is just
possible that there may be something to be
ashamed of in insulting a man whom you know
you can thrash, and declining to meet him upon
equal terms.'

The sight of Kenyon's face, as he gradually
took in this terse summing up of the situation,
was enough to compensate Philip for worse

things than having been called a wholesale
robber. Longer and longer it grew, till, as
Philip afterwards said, c it almost reached the
lowest button of his waistcoat,' and finally
assumed an expression of the most woebegone
penitence. It had not occurred to Hugh to
look at the matter in that light before ; but now
it seemed clear enough that he had been acting
the part of a bully ; and what was left for him
to do but to eat humble pie? It made him very
miserable to recognise this duty; but it would
have made him still more so to have shirked
it.

You are right, Marescalchi,' he said ; 1 1
allowed my temper to get the better of me, and
I forgot myself. "When duelling was done
away with it was understood, I suppose, that a
man would have to be more careful than ever in
future about what he said, and I was certainly
wrong in saying what I did. I withdraw the
words that offended you, and I beg your pardon
for having used them.'

Philip nodded. * It is a pity that you
dislike me so extremely, Colonel Kenyon,' he
said ; ' for I really have a sincere admiration
for you. But we can never be friends, I am
afraid.'

I am afraid not. The fact is that I ought
not to have come here at all, and the sooner I

VOL. III. Q

take myself off the better. Good morning to
you.'

1 don't want to detain you against your
will,' said Philip ; ' but as you are here, and as
you will most likely be seeing Meg in the course
of the day. I think I might as well tell you
something about myself, which I should have
had to let her know before long. I wonder
whether you could be persuaded to sit down fora
few minutes and behave like a rational being.'

Perhaps Philip did not know how very
offensive this impertinent tone was to the elder
man. Hugh was too crestfallen to resent it.
He sat down resignedly, and said ' Well ? '

c I only wish to tell you that I am going to
be married shortly. My future bride is Signora
Tommasini, of whom I dare say you have often
heard.'

Hugh could not repress a low whistle. ' You
don't mean the — the singing woman ! ? he ejaculated.


I do. And she is fat, and you remember
her when you were a boy, and all that. But
she isn't a bad sort of old woman, all the
same.'

Probably Philip felt a good deal ashamed of
himself; but it is not probable that he realised
the intensity of his hearer's contempt for him.
Hush, however, had had enough of making personal

criticisms for one day : lie only remarked,
in a low voice, ' This will be a bkw to poor
Margaret.'

I suppose,' observed Philip, ' you wouldn't
believe me if I were to say that it is partly on
Meg's account that I have decided to take this
step ; but it will, at all events, be a satisfaction
to you to know that I am off her hands. I shall
always be a burden upon somebody ; but I shall
never be a burden upon her any more.'

Something in the speaker's voice found its
way to a soft place in Colonel Kenyon's heart.
'I say, Marescalchi,' he exclaimed abruptly,
can't you get out of this? Are you irrevocably
committed to it?'

Oh, dear me, yes ! ' answered Philip ; ■ I
am not sure that the banns haven't been put up
already. Anyhow, I'm in for it ; and, really,
do you know, I don't mind it nearly as much as
I expected to do. You'll just mention it to
Meg, will you ? '

I will tell her,' said Hugh, reluctantly. ' In
fact I shall hardly be able to avoid telling her.
But surely you must see that you ought to goto
her yourself.'

Very well,' answered Philip ; l it will be
painful for both of us ; but what must be must.
You might also mention to her that I didn't
know the reason of her leaving Longbourne.

Or, rather, no ; don't say anything about that —
what does it signify? No use asking you to
stop and have some lunch, I suppose ? Goodbye,
then.'

Goodbye,' said Hugh. He hesitated for a
moment whether to hold out his hand or not ;
but finally decided that he would not. And so
the two men parted, and have never exchanged
words since. Their paths in life diverged from
that day, and when they meet now — which does
not often happen — they look the other way.

Hugh, walking sadly homewards, thought to
himself, 4 So that is the end of him ! As selfish
and cynical a young scoundrel as ever breathed;
and yet, somehow, I am sorry for the beggar.'

But Philip, when he described the Colonel's
visit, a few hours later, to the Signora, from
whom he had now no secrets, said, l There never
was a more dear old high-minded, thick-headed
ass ! It was a case of honours divided, and I
don't think either of us cared much who won
the game. He is a gentleman, that long, thin
gunner, if he isn't exactly a man of the world.
1 think Mrs. Stanniforth will end by marrying
him. Which is a pity ; for he will never understand
her.'

CHAPTER XXXVI.

REWARDS AND PUNISHMENTS.

It never rains but it pours. Hardly had Mrs.
Wilmington got rid of the visitor who had
intruded upon her as related in the last chapter
before another, and an even less welcome one,
was announced. When she heard the name of
Mr. Brune, she not unnaturally concluded that
it was Walter who had pushed audacity to the
point of bearding the lioness in her den, and she
was so mightily stirred by this fancied outrage
that she had much ado to restrain herself from
hurling at the head of the father the denunciation
intended for the son.

You did not expect to see me,' observed
Mr. Brune, who had marked the lady's evident
discomposure.

One does not expect to see anybody at this
hour of the day,' answered Mrs. Wilmington,
with somewhat discourteous emphasis.

4 1 apologise. I have no doubt I have been
guilty of a frightful breach of etiquette. Please

set it down to my rustic breeding, and also to
the great desire that I had to find you at home.'

Mrs. Wilmington replied that she was always
at home now, the state of her health not being-such
as to allow of her leaving the house. She
added that she was not well enough to see anyone,
and that she wished servants would not be
so stupid.

I see,' said Mr. Brune, c that I have been
most indiscreet ; and I would go away at once,
if I had not a matter of real importance to us
both to talk over with you. I daresay you may
remember, Mrs. Winnington, a conversation
which I had with you just before Walter left
home.'

i I do,' answered Mrs. Winnington. f I am
not likely to forget it, I can assure you. And,
since you have introduced the subject, Mr.
Brune, I think it as well that you should know
that my daughter and I have been put to the
most serious annoyance by your son's conduct
during the last few weeks.'

1 1 am grieved to hear it, but perhaps it
would save time and clear the air if I were to
finish what I have to say. When I have done,
we will sit in judgment upon Walter, if you feel
inclined that way. You say you have not forgotten
our interview at Longbourne ; so you
will recollect my telling you at the time that I

should not be disposed to look favourably upon
my son's marriage with a penniless girl. 1

Mr. Brune ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Wilmington,
red and wrathful, ; if you have forced your way
into my drawing-room merely in order to say
impertinent things '

• Xow, my dear lady, why will you be in
such a desperate hurry to condemn a man before
the words are out of his mouth? What I was
going to say was not impertinent ; on the
contrary, it was as pertinent as anything could
be. I was about to remark that circumstances
have caused me to alter my mind upon that
point. I am now ready to withdraw all opposition
to my son's marriage with your daughter,'

It is to be feared that that unworthy delight
which Philip took in stirring up the causeless
wrath of his neighbours must have been hereditary
in the Brune family. Mrs. Winnington
was so nearly choked by anger that she could
get out no more articulate reply than a sort of
crow ; and Mr. Brune, who was enjoying himself
greatly, went on.

You see, at that time there was really no
prospect of an engagement resulting in anything,
except disappointment. I remember to have
mentioned to you that I should not feel justified
in absolutely forbidding such a thing, but that I
did not think it desirable ; and then, you know,

you saw Walter himself, and sent him to the
right-about very quickly. All that was quite
as it should be ; but since then a change has
taken place in the condition of affairs. Walter
is now better off than he was ; indeed I may
say that he is in a position to support a wife
and family comfortably ; and there is no reason
why your daughter and he should not be
married as soon as you please.'

Never ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Winnington ; ' no,

never in all my life have I But perhaps I

had better say no more. Mr. Brune, I must
request you to leave me.'

Directly, Mrs. Winnington ; but before I
go, may I ask whether you have any objection
to Walter as an individual ? '

c The strongest ! The very strongest ! '

8 Dear, dear ! how unfortunate ! I was
hoping that it might have been only his poverty
that repelled you ; and, as he will now be in
receipt of an income of from six to eight thousand
a year . However, there is no use in

talking about what cannot be ; and, much as I
like and admire Miss Winnington, I am fully
alive to the fact that Walter might do better for
himself in a pecuniary sense. Well ; it only
remains for me to express my sincere regret and
wish you good morning.'

c Please sit down again, Mr. Brune ; I don't

know why you should decide things in such an
off-hand way. You must allow me a few
minutes to think over this very unexpected
news.'

c As many as ycu like, my dear Mrs. Winnington.
To make things quite clear to you,
let me say that my brother-in-law William
Boulger, is dead, and has left 150,000/. to
Walter. By living quietly in the country and
exercising strict economy, I think a young
couple might be able to manage upon that.'

Mrs. Wilmington thought so too. The
prospect thus thrown open to Edith was a
humble one in comparison with that which had
lately seemed to lie before her ; but, with the
false Stanniforth lost for ever, and with no one
at hand to put in his place, seven thousand a
year was by no means to be lightly rejected,
and, to do Mrs. Winnington justice, the fact
that Walter was the man of Edith's own choice
counted for something with her.

4 1 never allow myself to be influenced by
feelings of personal prejudice,' she began.

I have noticed that you never do.'

And although, after the manner in which
your son has behaved of late, I cannot truly say
that I think well of him, still '

c Still, a rich man may do things which are
not permissible to a poor one, and a handsome

income covers a multitude of sins. I quite
enter into your feelings.'

Excuse me, Mr. Brune,' said Mrs. Winnington,
not without dignity, c but I very much
doubt whether you do enter into my feelings.
You are so very plain-spoken with me that I
need not hesitate to speak plainly to you, and
to tell you that, if I were choosing a husband
for Edith, I should not choose your son. I
think him a loud and unrefined young man, and
it seems to me that he is not likely to find himself
in that position in society in which I should
like Edith to move. But I have always maintained
that a parent's interference ought to be
kept within certain limits. One has a right to
insist upon birth, adequate means, and good
character.'

It would be impossible to carry moderation
further.'

1 But beyond that one is perhaps hardly entitled
to go ; and, as I believe that there is nothing
against your son's moral character, I feel that I
ought not any longer to oppose Edith's choice.'

4 1 am delighted to hear you speak of Edith's
choice as being made. Might I be allowed to
see her before I go ? '

Oh, certainly, if you wish it ! ' answered
Mrs. Winnington. ' I will ring and send for
her.'

Accordingly Edith was summoned, and
presently made her appearance, looking very
pale and frightened. This was not quite what
Mr. Brune wanted. He would have been glad
to have had a few minutes' conversation in
private with his future daughter-in-law, but
evidently Mrs. Wilmington did not think it
necessary to accord him that privilege ; so he
revealed the nature of his errand in a few plain
and direct words, said as many pleasant things
as it was possible to say in the freezing presence
of the lady upon the sofa, and took his leave,
having obtained permission for Walter to call
later in the day.

The latter, who had been awaiting his
father's return with no little impatience, was
so overjoyed when he heard of his good
fortune that Mr. Brune felt constrained to remind
him that there was no rose without a
thorn.

Mrs. Warrington is your thorn,' said he.
4 Don't attempt to sit upon her ; it wouldn't be a
success. If you will be advised by me, you will
make up your mind at once to regard her as one
of those inevitable evils which time alone can
remove, and which it is not of the slightest use
to fight against. Don't fight against her this
afternoon if she insults you, as she probably will
do. You have won the game, and you can

afford to be magnanimous, or, if you prefer it,
contemptuous.'

Walter declared that he was neither going
to quarrel with Mrs. Wilmington, nor to treat
her with contempt. He was determined to
make friends with the old lady, he said ;
whereat Mr. Brune laughed.

And yet the task did not prove so difficult a
one as might have been anticipated. The fact
was that Mrs. Winnington was not ill pleased at
the turn which matters had taken ; and though it
would have been unreasonable to expect of her
that she should have acknowledged as much to
Mr. Brune, she did not mind saying so to Walter.
Full well she knew that Tom Stanniforths did
not grow on every bush, and if there was any
humiliation in the position of having to welcome
to-day the man whom she would have turned
out of her house yesterday, she was not conscious
of it. Her own view of the case was that
she had done her duty throughout, and had now
been rewarded — not fully, still, as sufficiently as
could be hoped for in a world where rewards
and punishments have no direct connection
with desert. She received Walter graciously
and pat ron singly, and after a time walked upstairs
without assistance, leaving him and Edith
in possession of the drawing-room. The dialogue
which ensued between these happy lovers

may be left to be filled up by such readers
as care to exercise their imagination in that
way.

From thenceforth Mrs. Wilmington talked
no more about dying. Her health and spirits
returned with surprising rapidity, and in a day
or two she was able to go and see Margaret,
who was by no means in so good a case either
as regarded one or the other. The cough which
had so alarmed Hugh was indeed better, but the
patient's general condition was far from being
satisfactory. She was languid and nervous, and
when her mother scolded her affectionately for
her * really too preposterous escapade,' she began
to cry.

'I cannot understand dear Margaret,' Mrs.
Wilmington complained to Hugh. ' I suppose
she is glad to see me ; but really one would
never imagine it from her manner. A short
time ago she would have been delighted to hear
of dear Edith's engagement, but now it scarcely
seems to interest her. I cannot get her to talk
at all. Has she anything on her mind, do you
think ? '

It takes a little time to recover from a
severe nervous shock,' Hugh answered. ' She
ought to have a complete change as soon as it
can be managed.'

Well,' said Mrs. Winnington, ' I am quite

ready to take her to Homburg as soon as she
likes now. Of course, if dear Edith's wedding
is to take place in the autumn, I cannot say how
long I may be able to remain abroad ; but dear
Margaret may certainly count upon me for three
weeks or a month.'

Hugh, however, had found out that Margaret
did not wish to go abroad with her mother ; so
he answered evasively that he was afraid Homburg
would not exactly do. Switzerland, perhaps,
would be a more suitable place. Upon
the whole, he thought that Margaret should
make her plans irrespectively of Mrs. Winning-ton's.
He did not care to tell that lady of the
other wedding which was imminent ; nor
did he think it necessary to mention what he
believed to be the true cause of Margaret's
depression. He himself found it difficult to
sympathise with his friend in this trouble. He
was very sorry, but he could not say much.
The fellow was so absolutely worthless ! He
had broken the news as gently as he could ; he
had dwelt as little as possible upon Signora
Tommasini's age, and he had carefully abstained
from saying a word about sordid motives ; but
he had not found himself able to make excuses
for Philip. ' He'll make them for himself a deal
better than I should for him,' the Colonel had
thought with a rather bitter laugh. ' If anybody

can persuade Margaret that black is white, he
is the man to do it.'

Perhaps Philip's confidence in his persuasive

powers was not so great : certain it is that he
never came to make those excuses. For three
long days Margaret waited impatiently, expecting
every hour to hear his step upon the stairs ;
but he failed to redeem his promise, and upon
the fourth morning a note arrived from him in
which he stated plainly that he ; could not bring
himself to face it.'

1 What would be the use,' he wrote, ' of my
corning to be forgiven — for of course I should
be forgiven — and of our trying to persuade ourselves
that things can ever be the same ao-ain as
they used to be ? It is wiser to make an end
and finish of it at once, Meg ; and if you can
get yourself to think of me as if I were dead,
that will be best. For a great many years I
have been your lap-dog, and you have been
wonderfully good and kind to me — only
unfortunately you didn't know that all lap-dogs
require whipping — and now I am going to be
Signora Tommasini\s lap-dog. I don't think
you would care about the divided ownership,
and I am quite sure that I couldn't endure
it. You will set me down as ungrateful and
heartless ; and Colonel Kenyon will confirm
your opinion. I have no doubt. So be it ; only

I think you will see, some day, that the best
proof of gratitude that I could give you was to
take myself off your hands and out of your life,'

In her distress, Margaret showed these
words to Colonel Kenyon, who read them, and
shook his head.

I don't know what Philip means,' she saidi
Why should he talk about forgiveness ? He
has a right to marry whom he pleases, and he
has done me no wrong, however sorry he may
have made me. Why should he mind seeing
me ? '

I don't want to hit a man when he is down,'
answered Hugh ; ' but it seems to me that all
that is nothing but tall talk, and that he only
refuses to meet you because he shrinks from the
humiliation of it. I know nothing about
Signora Tommasini ; but one cannot suppose
that she would be a person whom you could
receive upon terms of equality ; and I presume
that he understands that. It sounds a hard
thing to say ; but I can't help agreeing with
him that it would be best if you could look upon
him as dead.'

Margaret said very little more* It was not
in her power to do as she was advised, though
doubtless it might be expedient to make a
pretence at doing so. The total failure of her
life was very evident to her ; but that did not

make it any easier to forget the past and start
afresh. * What am I to do now ? ' she ejaculated
to herself, after Hugh had left her ; and all day
long this question kept echoing and re-echoing
itself in a tired brain. What was she to do ? —
what was she to do ?

By way of practical answer came a kind
letter from Tom Stanniforth, who had heard
something of her projects, entreating hers to
come down to Longbourne, and start a poor
bachelor in the way of housekeeping and dealing
with the tyrannical Mrs. Prosser, who remained
in charge of the establishment. It might be a
convenience to Margaret, he said, to be in her
own house for a time before going abroad, and
it would be a true charity to him if she would
give him a few directions.

A somewhat similar invitation reached
Colonel Kenyon, who was begged to understand
that his right to make himself at home at
Longbourne remained the same, although the
house had passed out of the hands of one
member of the Stanniforth family into the
temporary occupancy of another.

It thus came to pass that, in the early days
of August, very nearly the same party assembled
round the Longbourne dinner-table as had met
there a year before ; for Mrs. Winnington and
Edith had been induced, without much pressing,

VOL. III. R

to avail themselves of Mr. Stanniforth's hospitality.
There was only one absentee, and
probably only one person missed him. Walter
did say one evening that he wished poor old
Philip could be there to keep them alive ; but
this remark was received with such emphatic
silence that it was not repeated ; and in truth,
so far as he himself was concerned, Walter did
not feel that the society in which he spent
the greater part of his time left anything to be
desired.

As the result of many family conclaves, it
had been finally decided that Margaret was to
engage a companion to accompany her to
Switzerland, whither Hugh, whom a step in rank
had deprived of the command of his battery and
of all present employment, w r as likewise to travel
with her. An advertisement was accordingly
put in the papers, which had the effect of bringing
numerous singular-looking persons down to
Crayminster to be interviewed by Mrs. Winning-ton,
and promptly dismissed as altogether
unsuitable. Margaret was beginning to despair,
when an excellent and unexpected substitute fora
companion presented herself in the person of
Miss Br une,

Nellie had been anything but pleased by Mr.
Stanniforth's appearance as tenant of Long-bourne
; and she had thought fit to give him a

very cool reception the first time that he walked
over to Broom Leas. This, however, had not
prevented him from calling again the next day,
and the next, and every day ; and his manner
had been such as to leave her in no doubt that
it was his intention to repeat ere long the offer
which he had made without success upon a previous
occasion. Xow Xellie was not ignorant of
what had been taking place in London during the
past few months, and her belief was that she
understood Mr. Stanniforth thoroughly. He
would have been glad to marry Edith if Walter
had not interfered. Failing Edith, he would
now be willing enough to marry her; and,
failing her, he would have no objection, she
supposed, to marrying somebody else. One
could not be exactly angry with the man, since
it was evident that he really meant no offence j
but at the same time it was very disagreeable to
be annoyed by the preliminary courtship in
which he chose to indulge ; and as there was
apparently no hope of making him understand
the futility of that process, the only thing to be
done seemed to be to run away from him.
Xellie, therefore, had decided upon paying a long
visit to her aunt Elizabeth, an ancient dame who
dwelt far away in the west of England, and it
was without any idea of being taken al her word

R 2

that she remarked one morning to Mrs. Tannin
i Ah ! I wish you would carry me off to
foreign parts with you as your companion. I
shouldn't ask for any salary.'

Margaret jumped at the suggestion. Probably
she was the only person at Longbourne or
Broom Leas who was still in the dark as to Mr.
Stanniforth's purpose, and she was under the
impression that Nellie needed change of scene
almost as much as she did herself. Had not her
clay-footed idol once been Nellie's idol too?
The whole matter was arranged, Mr. Brune's
consent had been obtained, and the travellers
were off almost before the astounded Tom
Stanniforth could draw his breath.

1 Looked at in the light of a practical joke, I
must acknowledge that this is a great success,'
he said, in rueful accents, to Edith, who could
not help laughing at his discomfiture. ' Here
am I with a big house on my hands that I don't
know what to do with, and I aren't shut it up
and go away now. I feel exactly like a man
who has taken a moor for the season, and finds,
on the morning after his arrival, that all the
birds are dead.'

c Your bird will come back,' said Edith
consolingly.

i Yes, but when? And when she does come
back, what chance will there be for me ? What

am I to think of her going off like this the
moment that I appear ? '

c I know what I think,' answered Edith ; •' I
think you have scared her away. You made too
sure of her, and I dare say you let her see it ;
which is not at all the sort of thing which
Xellie would like. But never mind. If she
had meant to refuse you again, she would not
have gone away.'

In happy ignorance of the unwarrantable
deduction that was being drawn from her retreat,
Xellie was at that moment seated in the corner
of a French railway carriage, enjoying that exhilaration
and sense of freedom which we alone
among all nations experience when we leave our
native land. We are generally very glad to get
home again, and we complain with much bitterness
of our discomforts during our absence ; but
who does not know the feeling of exultation
with which that strip of tumbling grey sea, on
the other side of which are all manner of
worries and fetters, is left behind? Besides,
some of us like to feel the warm sun on our
backs for once in a while.

The small party which travelled in a leisurely
way from Paris to Dijon, and from Dijon to
Bale, and so up to the regions of purer air, which
it was considered desirable that Margaret should
breathe, grumbled at nothing — not even at the

antiquated French railway system, which delights
to throw stumbling-blocks in the path of leisurely
travellers, nor at the horde of objectionable
compatriots who jostled them at every halting-place.
Nor did any of them express a wish to
return home. The subject of home was, indeed,
but little touched upon between them, and the
names of those whom they had left there were
seldom on their lips. It would not have been
easy to speak of one without mentioning others,
whose recent proceedings, it was felt, were best
not alluded to. Letters reached them from time
to time — letters from Longbourne and from
Homburg ; and one morning there came a newspaper
containing an account of the nuptials of
Signora Tommasini and an elaborate description
of the bride's dress. Over this Margaret shed
a few tears ; but she was careful to conceal both
the tears and the newspaper from her companions.
They left her a good deal to herself,
having discovered that that was what she liked
best ; and on sunny mornings, when Hugh was
stretching his long legs in rambles over the hills
and far away, and when Nellie had started on
an excursion with some of the acquaintances who
are quite sure to be met with in every hole and
corner of Switzerland in the month of August,
she would sit for hours in the shade, gazing at
white threads cf distant waterfalls, at slopes

shaggy with the dark pines, at silver mists curling
onions; the rocks and snow-fields above them
and thinking, thinking.

In that silence and peace and solitude her
wounds were gradually healing over — or so she
believed. Long before, in London, she had
realised the mistakes of her life ; but these were
no longer so painful to her that she could not
bear to face them. It was best to recognise the
truth. She supposed that her mother and Philip
were rather selfish people. Hugh evidently
thought so ; and Hugh, who was much better
and wiser than she, was always right. But when
this was admitted, what more was there to be
said, except that she might have spared herself
some pain if she had admitted it a little sooner?
To one of them, at least, she could not accuse
herself of having done any harm ; while she
had so greatly injured the other by her foolish
fondness that she had assuredly no right whatever
to complain of him for turning away from
her now. And if there was not much comfort
in the latter reflection, she persuaded herself
that there was — which is very nearly the same
thing. Some comfort also she derived from the
conviction that her troubles had taught her to
appreciate the one faithful friend whose faithfulness
and friendship she had always accepted too
much as a matter of course, and whose gentle

attempts to open her eyes she had so often resented.
Poor Hugh ! she had never liked
hitherto to think of that offer of marriage that
he had made her a year before, but now she did
not mind looking back upon it. Could it be
true, she wondered, that he had loved her, as he
said, before Jack had come? Probably it was
not quite true; for men always said that sort of
thing, and Hugh had evidently put all thought
of the subject away from him. She was half
sorry that he should be consoled so soon ; and
yet she could hardly have wished it to be otherwise,
for she was very certain that she could
never have married him.

Hugh, meanwhile, was biding his time c He
understood, to some extent, the gradual awakening
process through which Margaret was passing ;
and, like a sensible man, he took long walks, and
allowed Nature to do her own work in her own
way. One day he took it into his head that he
would like to go up the Finsteraarhorn ; and
during the night of his absence a terrific thunderstorm
broke over the higher peaks, insomuch
that Margaret, who could get no sleep for thinking
of the perils to which the adventurous
climber might be exposed, knocked up Nellie atone
o'clock in the morning to take her opinion
as to the advisability of despatching a search
party across the glacier. On the following

evening, however, Hugh came limping back,
having triumphantly achieved his object, and
having met with no worse disaster than a smart
blow on the shin from a falling stone; which
little inconvenience was more than compensated
for by Margaret's expressions of compassion and
concern.

1 You must not go up any more mountains
she said decisively ; 'it is too dangerous, and
you ought not to risk your life in that foolish
way. What would become of me if you were
to tumble over a precipice and break your
neck ? '

1 Are you beginning to think of yourself at
last?' asked Hugh with a smile.

4 Hush! ' she answered; 'you know very well
that I have always thought of myself. But you
will take care, won't you. I haven't so many
friends that I can afford to lose one.'

Hugh promised that he would be caution
itself for the future ; but after that day Mrs.
Stanniforth became restless and anxious to
descend to a lower level of habitation. She had
had enough of the mountains, she said; they
were far more beautiful when seen from a
distance. And it was ^ettincr too late in the
year to linger in such high quarters ; and the
food was bad ; and it was so miserably uncomfortable
when it rained — and, in short, she would

give her companions no peace until they had
consented to go down into the heat and civilisation
of Geneva.

But Geneva evidently would not do for more
than a day or two, and it was soon agreed that
a move should be made to Ouchy. This resolution
was arrived at on the quay, whither our
three friends had strolled out one evening after
dinner ; and while Hugh was pointing to the
place where Mont Blanc ought to have been
visible, a cheery and familiar voice called out
behind them, c So here you are ! What a happy
chance that I should have thought of taking
a walk this evening ! I meant to have started
for the Aeggischhorn, the first thing in the
morning, after you.'

Tom ! ' exclaimed Margaret in accents of
extreme surprise. ' What in the world has
brought you to Switzerland ? '

The Paris and Lyons Railway and the
habits of a lifetime,' answered Mr. Stanniforth ;
and he might have added, c the friendly counsels
of Edith Winnington. , 4 1 almost always do go
abroad at this time of year, you know,' he
said.

This might or might not be true ; but
Margaret could not help concluding, from a
certain hilarious self-consciousness on Tom
Stanniforth's part, that there was more in

this sudden appearance of his than met the
eye.

I do wonder,' she said to Hugh, later in the
evening, when Nellie had gone to bed and Mr.
Stanniforth had likewise retired, after in the
most matter-of-course way declaring his intention
of accompanying the party to Ouchy — ' I
do wonder what can have made Tom think of
joining us.'

1 Ah ! ' said Hugh, ' what could it have
been ? '

4 You don't mean to say '

Colonel Kenyon began to laugh. 'Isn't it
an extraordinary thing,' said he, 'that I, an
innocent old bachelor, should always be the one
to enlighten a person of your experience as to
the love-making that is going on under your
nose ? Didn't I tell you about young Brune and
Edith long ago ? And now you see that there
was another little affair in progress to which
you were blind.'

Oh, but, 3 answered Margaret, anxious to
vindicate her character for insight, ' I was not
altogether blind ! That is, I thought at one
time that he admired her a good deal ;
only '

1 Only you were determined at that time
that Miss Brune's affections were to be otherwise
engaged — not to speak of his. People have

a troublesome way of choosing for themselves,
though.'

4 1 am not sure that Nellie has chosen,' said
Margaret.

1 Well, we shall see. We may get some
amusement out of watching them — you and I.'

YES AND NO.

The amusement which Colonel Kenyon had
anticipated from watching the progress of Tom's
suit was furnished to him in as liberal a measure
as he could have wished on the following day.
when the whole party took steamer for Ouchy.
They all knew so perfectly well what Mr. Stan-north
was there for, they were all so determined
to behave as if they didn't know, and were so
conscious withal of their total inability to deceive
one another, that their conversation
throughout the voyage down the lake was of a
most polite, formal, and unnatural kind. The
two lookers-on were more than once upon the
brink of an outburst of untimely laughter.

As for the principals, one of them was a
great deal too much in earnest, and the other
was a great deal too angry, to laugh. Xellie
thought that Mr. Stanniforth had taken a decided
liberty in joining them without having
even troubled himself to find out first whether

he was wanted or not ; but what angered her
far more than this free-and-easy conduct was
the good-humoured satisfaction of Ins face, which
seemed to say, as plainly as if the words had
been spoken, that he was quite confident of
obtaining what he came to Switzerland to seek.
She was also much displeased with Mrs. Tannin
and Colonel Kenyon, who, after the first
hour, kept on making the most desperate efforts
to leave her alone with her persecutor. These
efforts she was determined to defeat, and indeed
did defeat ; though at the cost of some personal
loss of dignity, and of a considerable increase in
the general absurdity of the situation. Nothing,
she resolved, should induce her to quit Mrs.
Stanniforth's side for a moment. If Margaret
expressed a wish to go forward and enjoy the
view which was partly hidden from the first-class
passengers by an awning, Nellie at once
became fired by a similar ambition ; in the same
manner she shifted about a dozen times from
the sunshine to the shade and back again ; and
when at last Margaret, in despair, said that she
was tired, and would go and lie down in the cabin
for a little, Nellie immediately discovered that
she also was tired, and would like to lie down.
The other passengers must have thought that
these four people were playing a game of 
when they saw the elder lady perpetually

starting up and walking quickly away,
followed in hot haste by the younger, who, m
her turn, was pursued by the two men.

But such tactics were, at best, but a sorry
makeshift, and evidently could not be persevered
in for long. They were so far successful
that Mr. Stanniforth did not get a single opportunity
for private conversation with Miss Brune
on board the steamer ; but once on shore it was
easier for him to achieve his purpose, aided ashe
was by two unsolicited confederates, and before
the day was over Nellie had walked unsuspectingly
into a trap which was laid for her
without any collusion on the part of her ensnarers.
Margaret went into her own room to
rest immediately on arriving at the hotel, and
Miss Brune thought there could be no danger in
assenting to Colonel Kenyon's proposition that
they should stroll up and have a look at Lausanne
before dinner. It was, of course, inevitable that
Mr. Stanniforth should accompany them ; but that
she did not mind, so long as there was a third
person present. What she had omitted to take
into account was the malevolence of Colonel
Kenyon, who, as soon as they had reached the
top of the hill, said suddenly :

By-the-bye, I have got to go to the bankers',
and I am afraid they may keep me sometime.
You had better not wait for me: I'll

follow you down, when I've finished my business.'


c Oh, but we would much rather wait ! '
objected Nellie ; c it can't take more than fixe
minutes to change a few circular notes. Or,
perhaps,' she added, 'if Mr. Stanniforth is in a
hurry, he would walk on, and I might wait.'

I'll do anything I'm told, except walk back
alone,' said Mr. Stanniforth accommodatingly.

4 Oh, you must really both of you go!
Couldn't think of keeping you,' cried the perfidious
Hugh, hurrying away to avoid further
argument.

Thus brought to bay, Nellie recovered her
courage. She reflected that it should be quite
within her power to hold Mr. Stanniforth at a
distance, and perhaps, after all, he would have
the good taste not to seize this very early occasion
of saying what she was afraid he meant
to say sooner or later. Nevertheless, his first
remark disconcerted her a little.

You must all have been rather surprised
at my coming abroad after having taken Long-bourne
with the express intention of spending
the summer there.'

Did you express an intention of spending
the summer there? ' she asked. i But of course
you were not bound to do so, unless you liked.'

4 Well, no. And, under the circumstances,
as you may imagine, I did not like.'

I suppose it must have been rather dull
after Mrs. Winnington and Edith went away.'

'Just so — after Mrs. Winnington and her
daughter went away. Do you know, I never
was more mistaken about anybody in my life
than I was about your future sister-in-law.
This time last year I was inclined to set her
down as a rather insipid sort of girl, with a
pretty face and no brains to speak of ; but now
I have quite changed my opinion of her, and I
think her as clever as she is pretty. She and I
struck up a great friendship in London.'

1 So I heard,' Nellie could not help saying,
in a tone which implied that she had heard of
something more than friendship.

Oh ! ' answered Tom ; ' I know what you
mean, and I am not going to make any secret
of it to you. I proposed to Miss Winnington,
and she refused me ; and then it was that we
made friends.'

1 I thought,' said Nellie, with her nose in
the air, l that one was supposed never to talk
about things of that kind.'

One is surely entitled to say that one has

been refused. And, besides, I had a reason for

mentioning it to you, Miss Brune. I wanted to

explain to you how it was that I ever came to

vol. in. s

make that proposal at all. For, after what I
said to you in November last, you must have
thought it rather extraordinary in me to do so.'

\ I did not know that you had done so
answered Nellie, who was now posting down
the hill at a great pace ; ' and if I had, I should
not have thought it extraordinary — not in the
least extraordinary. And I hate explanations.'

You will listen to mine," though, I hope.
I won't make it long, and I should get through
it so much more quickly if I might sit still
instead of running. Here is a bench. Won't
you sit down for a few minutes, Miss Brune,
and let me say what I have to say ? '

As you please,' said Nellie despairingly.
She seated herself at one end of the bench
pointed out to her, and laid down her sunshade
lengthways beside her, so that only a small
space was left at the opposite extremity for
Mr. Stanniforth.

Of this he uncomplainingly availed himself,
and began :

c I will confess at once that I acted very
foolishly, and that, if I had been left to myself,
I should have committed a mistake which I
should have regretted for the rest of my life.
My only excuse is that I had a sort of idea that
it would be necessary for me to marry sometime
or other. My father went on bothering

me about it, and I saw that it was a case of
giving in then, or next year, or the year after,
and I thought Miss Winnington was a very
nice, amiable girl, and '

Really, Mr. Stanniforth,' interrupted Nellie,
half laughing, ' you need not make all these
excuses. I have no doubt that you and your
father were quite right; but I can't see what
concern this is of mine.'

Well, I wanted just to explain to you how
it happened. The woman whom I loved was
engaged to be married to another man, and I
didn't much care whom I married myself, so
long as she was not a termagant. So, as I told
you, I proposed to Miss Winnington, who not
only refused me, but in the kindest way pointed
out to me what a fool I had been to ask her. She
got the truth out of me (which was the more easy
as she had guessed it all beforehand), and then
she told me that your engagement to Marescalchi
was at an end ; after which she strongly advised
me to try again. And so — here I am.'

c You and Edith seem to have thought that
what you call " trying again " was a very simple
matter,' observed Nellie.

i No, indeed ! I did not think that it would
be a simple matter to succeed ; but of course
what I had to do was simple enough. What
more can I do than come and ask you whether I

may hope? I told you last November — and I
am sure you don't think that I would tell a lie
that I had never loved anyone but you. I
have not changed since then.'

c You seem to forget that you have been all
but engaged to somebody else since then.'

No, I don't. And you have been quite
engaged to somebody else.'

c Mr. Stanniforth, I never met anyone the
least like you ! You speak as if my case were
the same as yours. I said to you that day,
that— that '

You said " No " that day.'

< Very well?'

c And are you going to say No now ? If you
are, say it quickly, and I will promise never to
persecute you again. I know you are too honest
to trifle with me.'

After all, it was Hugh who got down the
hill first. He had been sitting for a long time
in the garden of the hotel when Tom Stanniforth
joined him with a radiant countenance, and said
he had come to be congratulated.

1 It's all right, my dear Kenyon, and I'm the
happiest man in Europe. I can hardly believe
it's true ! '

'Oh!' said Hugh, with a calm smile, 4 I
could have told you long ago that it was going
to be all right.'

Mr. Stanniforth stared. ' The deuce you
could ! ' said he. c Then you knew more than
she did herself; for she assured me that she
fully intended to refuse me up to the last
moment.'

1 Ah, I dare say ! Lookers-on, you know —
I am condemned to be a looker-on all my days.'
And Hugh sighed, and shortly afterwards went
into the house, where he found that Margaret
had already been informed of the news.

It was perhaps a natural consequence of the
society of two blissful lovers that the patient
Colonel should have become eager to know his
own fate once for all. He did not speak at
once ; but a certain change came over him
which Margaret could not understand, and,
when he did speak, she was not only prepared
for what he was going to say, but was prepared
also with her answer.

They were sitting in a shady nook of that
garden of the Hotel Beau-Rivage, so well known
to the British tourist. Tourists were away now,
the afternoon being a cloudless one, and these
two had the garden to themselves. Tom and
Nellie had gone out on the lake : their boat
could be seen from between the trees, a black,
motionless speck upon an expanse of calm blue
w r ater.

Dear old Hugh,' said Margaret, ' my dear

old friend, it can't be. I love you more than
I do anybody in the world — more than Philip,
or anybody ; and I have thought a great deal
about it, and tried to persuade myself that it
might be possible; and then — I found that it
was not possible. I can't at all tell you how
sorry I am, and there is not much use either in
saying that one is sorry. I wish with all my
heart that I could avoid giving you pain ; but I
can't help it, can I ? It isn't my fault that —
that I can't forget.'

4 1 don't ask you to forget,' cried Hugh,
eagerly. c I don't expect it ; I don't wish it.
You can't love me as I love you, or as you
loved poor Jack : that, I know, is impossible.
I don't say that I didn't hope it might be otherwise
years ago ; but as one grows older one
looks at life in a very different way. Marriage
isn't all romance, Margaret and we know that
boy and girl love can't last for ever. Think of
all the happy middle-aged and old couples
you know, and ask yourself whether it is possible
that they can be "in love" with one
another. If I didn't feel certain that I could
make you happy, do you suppose that I should
wish you to marry me ? You see, Margaret, I
have watched you so long, and I have thought
about you for so many years, that now, I believe,
I know you better in some ways than you know

yourself. You are not fit to live alone. Some
women can do it ; but you are not one of them.
You need some one to look after you, and you
need, just as much, some one to look after. I
want to save you from the dreadful loneliness of
your life. Try to think of it in that way.'

1 Ah ! ' she said ; b 1 have thought of it in
that way. You need not speak to me of the
loneliness of my life ; for you cannot realise it
more clearly than I do. It frightens me to
think of the future. Hitherto I have always
had some one to think about ; but that is allover
now, and naturally, as time goes on, I
shall be more and more alone. And I know,
too, that I am not fit to live alone. Ever since
I have been my own mistress I have been doing
nothing but weak and foolish things, and I
suppose it will always be the same. I am
unstable as water — except, perhaps, in one
thing,' she added, recollecting herself. ' I have
always been true to Jack; and I could not be
false now, if I would. Oh! I know all that
there is to be said about second marriages. I
have said it all to myself scores of times: but I
can't bring myself to think about them in the
way that people generally do. I must believe
everything or nothing; and if I am to believe
that we don't lose our identity when we die, and
that we shall rise again at the last day with our

bodies, then I must know for certain that it
would make Jack sorry and angry to think that I
belonged to another man as much as to him.
You are laughing at me. It sounds ridiculous.
I know, and I would not have said this to anyone
else; but I would rather tell you the truth,
even if it does seem absurd.'

I was not laughing,' said Hugh ; and indeed
there was little mirth in his smile.

He could not tell her what was passing
through his mind. He had known Jack Tannin
intimately — a jolly, light-hearted fellow,
fond of sport, fond of a good dinner, fond of
most of the good things of this world, and not
at all given to troubling himself with thoughts
of another. It was as certain as anything could
be that Jack would have turned out a very good
husband, as husbands go, but that he would not
have been in love with his wife for a twelvemonth,
and that his ways would not have been
her ways, nor his pleasures her pleasures. Had
he lived but for a few years after his marriage,
it was probable that his widow would have
retained a very different impression of him and
his wishes. But Jack had spoilt everything by
dying before his honeymoon was well over;
and it would be cruel as well as useless to tell
Margaret now that her ideal had no existence
and had never had any. So Hugh said nothing*,

but only pulled his moustache and looked
broken-hearted.

4 Oh, how sorry I am ! ' exclaimed Margaret ;
4 it is so stupid to be obliged to be such a marplot!
If I could only say Yes, we might
all pair off, like the animals walking out of
the ark, or the people at the end of a novel —
you and I, and Tom and Nellie, and Walter
and Edith — and live happily ever afterwards,
and all would be well that ended well. But
it won't end well ; and I can't help it. I
wonder whether you believe that I am sorry,
Hugh.'

Hugh nodded rather dolefully. ' We can befriends,
all the same,' he said.

4 Oh, I hope so ! What should I do without
your friendship now ? You. are not angry with
me about this, are you, Hugh ? '

1 No, indeed. Last year,' he added, looking
up at her with a smile, ' it was I who had to
beg you not to be angry with me ; and you
said '

c Oh, don't ! — don't remind me of what I
said last year; you don't know how ashamed I
have been of it since. Oh, Hugh, how horrid
and selfish and unjust I have been to you, and
how patient you have been with me ! I can't
think how you have been able to go on caring
for me at all. But you will forgive, won't you?

and we shall not love each other the less because
— because '

1 Because you don't love me enough to marry
me?'

'" No, not that; but because I am not free to
marry you, or anybody. And surely there is
nothing in this that need part us. You know,
you said yourself that we were not like a girl
and boy ; the love that we have for each other is
the love of friends ; and we are old and grey-headed
now. We can go on as we have always
done, can't we, Hugh ? '

She was so eager to insist upon this view of
the case that Hugh would not disclaim the sober
character of the passion attributed to him.
4 Neither this nor anything else shall part us,
with my consent,' he said, trying to put on a
cheerful face ; 4 and we may certainly be friends,
a though I am afraid you can hardly call yourself
old yet.'

'I am grey, at any rate, and I feel as old
as Methuselah. I wonder whether we shall
live to be quite old people. Sometimes I think
that I shall die very soon.'

4 Nonsense ! you are getting strong and well
as fast you can. You look a hundred per cent,
better than when you left England. What
made you say that? '

4 1 don't know. I don't feel as if I were

getting stronger at all, and we are not a long-lived
family, you know. But there is nothing
particular the matter with me that I am aware of.'

Any allusion to the delicate state of Margaret's
health was sure to alarm Hugh immoderately;
and perhaps she may have known
this, and been not unwilling to take advantage
of so good an opportunity for changing the
subject. She allowed him to wrap a thick
shawl round her, though the afternoon was hot
and airless, and presently yielded to his entreaties
that she w r ould go indoors and lie down
till dinner-time.

It was just as well for Colonel Kenyon that
he should have other things to think of, besides
his great disappointment; and indeed Margaret's
condition was such as to give some real cause for
anxiety. For several days the poor Colonel was
fidgety and miserable, and Tom Stanniforth
unwittingly planted a dagger in his heart by
saying, ' Do you know, Kenyon, I don't like
[Margaret's looks at all. To me she has all the
appearance of a woman going into a decline.' It
is true that Tom immediately ate his words,
when he was asked savagely what he meant by
that ; but he could not do away with the sinister
impression produced by them, and from that
day forth Hugh's peace of mind was a thing of
the past.

August passed into September with a
rapidity quite unprecedented in the recollection
of Mr. Stanniforth and Miss Brune, and before
they knew where they were, September also was
on the wane, and the formation of some sort of
plan for the future became a matter the consideration
of which could no longer be deferred.
Tom's suggestion that Edith's wedding-day,
which was fixed for the middle of the succeeding
month, might appropriately be made the occasion
of another similar ceremony, was scouted as out
of all reason ; and he withdrew it, with suitable
apologies, when its absurdity was made manifest
to him. He pulled a rather long face, however,
on hearing Nellie's alternative proposition, which
dealt in vague terms with a possible date in the
next spring or summer, by which time, it might
be hoped, Mrs. Stanniforth would be back in
England. Nellie was determined, she said, that
Mrs. Stanniforth should be at her wedding, and
she could decide upon nothing until she knew
what Mrs. Stanniforth's movements were likely
to be.

The course of Mrs. Stanniforth's movements
was settled for her only too speedily ; for,
lingering out of doors one evening when the
dew was falling, she caught cold ; and this
brought on a return of her cough, a week in
bed, a visit from two doctors, and a peremptory

command from Hugh to hold herself in readiness
for an immediate departure for the Riviera.
She objected feebly that there was no one to go
with her ; but Hugh had already disposed of
that difficulty.

'sam going with you,' he said, ' and I have
telegraphed to your mother to come out at
once.'

My dear Hugh, how can you be so ridiculous
? Have you forgotten that Edith is to be
married in a few weeks? '

1 They must put off the wedding,' answered
Hugh, who, it must be owned, was rather too
prone to consider that everybody's convenience
ought to give way to Margaret's.

He was brought to his bearings by the
receipt of a telegram so terse and characteristic
that he could almost hear Mrs. Wilmington's
voice in his ears as he read it. ; Can't come.
Most unreasonable. What are you thinking
of ? Get that girl to go. Will join you
later,'

In despair, Hugh carried the message to
that girl,' and made so piteous an appeal to her
friendship that she could only express her
willingness to do all that might be required of
her even to the extent of absenting herself from
her brother's wedding. Upon this, the wires
were once more put into requisition, and, Mr.

Brune's consent having been granted, Colonel
Kenyon was able to give marching orders to
the small party under his command, of which,
it need hardly be said, Tom Stanniforth had
decided to form one.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

AT Cordillera.

The sunny, sheltered strip of coast where
Doctor Antonio lived and loved, and where so
many English people go every year to die. is
hardly what it used to be. Few things are
what they used to be. As for the Riviera, it is
beautiful still, since the colour cannot be taken
out of the sea and sky. nor the hills carted
away : but whatever can be accomplished by
man, in the shape of hideous railway embankments
and monster hotels, towards lessening its
beauty has been conscientiously and thoroughly
done. The hotels are full too, and the railway
brings many travellers — which circumstances
are looked upon in the light of additional attractions
by some people. Attractiveness is, after alla
term dependent entirely upon the beholder,
not upon the thing beheld ; and to Xellie Brune,
for one. this rather dusty, overcrowded, and
conventionalised region appeared a paradise.
Hugh secured a vihV for Margaret on the

outskirts of Bordighera (a spot which it may be
hoped that the spirit of Doctor Antonio is
debarred from revisiting), and there three of the
party ensconced themselves for the winter, Mr.
Stanniforth taking up his quarters in an hotel
hard by. In the month of November Mrs.
Winnington redeemed her promise, and appeared
upon the scene, full of sympathy and maternal
solicitude ; but Mrs. Winnington did not like
Bordighera and did not like the villa ; and some
of the inmates of the villa, as we know, did not
like her. Nor, if the truth must be told, washer
behaviour towards them of a nature to
encourage forgiveness or forgetfulness of bygone
passages of arms. Edith, to be sure, was
married and settled, and the once-coveted
Stanniforth might well be allowed to 0*0 his own
way with the contempt and pity which he
merited. Still it could not but be painful to a
right-thinking person to witness the triumph of
that Brune girl, whose wealth, alas ! must soon
be ten times as great as Edith's, and whose
affectation of being desperately enamoured of a
man old enough to be her father was really in
the worst possible taste. Mrs. Winnington, in
short, snapped and snarled a good deal, and
everybody breathed more freely when an event
occurred which, in her opinion, called for her
prompt return to England.

It was Hugh who, while reading his newspaper
one morning, came upon a paragraph
headed Death of the Earl of Travers, and he at
once communicated the sad intelligence to Mrs.
Wilmington, who, in well-chosen language, expressed
all the grief which neither she nor anyone
else felt. ' Poor dear George ! ' she cried,
taking the paper from Hugh's hands, and perusing
the brief announcement with appropriate
comments. ' Ah, yes, just as I expected ! — " a
severe attack of gout, complicated by other complaints
of long standing " — yes, indeed, poor
fellow, such a constant sufferer for so many
years ! . . . " cannot be surprised that an iron
constitution should have at last succumbed " —
no ; one can't be surprised, and poor George's
constitution was certainly something marvellous
. . " sufferings borne with admirable cheerfulness
and resignation " — hem ! yes. " The deceased
nobleman was in his usual health up to
yesterday afternoon " — dear, dear ! how terribly
sudden ! No doubt poor dear Kate was too
overwhelmed to write. £( If his death cannot
be said to leave a blank in political circles, the
loss of so genial" 1 hardly think this newspaper
man can have known dear George ; very
proper though. . . . " long and keenly felt in
society." Yes ; well, I don't know that anymore
could have been said. I really think I

VOL. III. T

ought to go to poor Kate. It is dreadful to
think of her being quite alone ; and I am sure
she would wish me to come, though she might
not quite like to ask it, which would account for
her not having written, you know. It is difficult
to see one's duty. Now, Hugh, tell me candidly :
do you think dear Margaret would be hurt if I
were to leave her ? '

I am quite sure she wouldn't,' responded
Hugh heartily.

1 Well, I don't know that you need be so
very positive about it. Of course nothing buta
feeling that it was an imperative duty to be
with Kate would induce me to go ; and perhaps,
after all, I am more wanted here.'

Oh, I think you ought to go,' said Hugh,
who knew perfectly well that Mrs. Winnington
meant to go. ' Think of poor Lady Travers all
by herself. There are three of us here, you see,
to take care of Margaret.'

Yes, that is very true ; and you could telegraph
for me at any moment, if it were necessary.
But dear Margaret is so much better now that
I hope she will soon be quite herself again.'

1 Quite herself again,' Hugh echoed.

So Mrs. Winnington went ; and it is to be
hoped that Lady Travers was as eager to welcome
her as some other people were to speed her on
her way. Her last words to Hugh, who saw her

into the railway carriage, were to the effect that,
since dear Margaret was so much better, she
thought she would not come back unless she was
sent for.

That Margaret was much better was an
article of faith with the three friends who
watched her day by day. They declared this,
indeed, so often and in such decided terms as
to suggest a suspicion that they were trying to
convince themselves and one another of the
truth of their assertion. They did not convince
Margaret, who knew that she would
never be better ; but she was resolved not to
say so yet. The time would come, she thought,
when, for a reason of her own, she would be
obliged to tell the truth to Hugh ; but that
time might be many months distant, and for
the present it was far better to wear a smiling
face, to laugh at Hugh's old-womanish precautions,
and to encourage the others with hopes
which could never be fulfilled.

A very little encouragement of that kind
will generally be found to suffice. Death, from
the contemplation of which humanity has always
shrunk, has become a somewhat specially repugnant
subject to a generation penetrated with
more or less conscious agnosticism ; and, besides,
no sensible person wishes to meet trouble halfway.
Tom and Xellie were easily persuaded toi

2

look on the brightest side of things, and even
Hugh, who was more observant and less sanguine,
would not admit to himself that anything worse
than a rather prolonged period of anxiety was in
store for him. So they went on saying she was
better until it was impossible to say that any
longer, and then they said she was no worse,
and then that she would be better when the
spring came.

It was after Hugh had made use of the
latter formula, one rainy day in January, that
Margaret at length spoke to him openly. ' I
don't think I shall be here when the spring
comes,' she said, ' and I know you don't think
so either, Hugh. Please don't contradict me:
we must make up our minds to it, and it is no
such great misfortune, after all. There is no
need to say anything to the others ; but I must
say this to you, because there is something that
I want you to do for me. I wonder whether
you will mind ? '

1 Mind ! As if you did not know that I
would do anything for you ! But, Margaret,
I don't think you are any worse than you were
a week ago — I don't really. The weather is
bad now, and you are feeling down. When the
sun comes out again, you will see ! We shall
be laughing at these dismal notions when the
spring comes. '

Poor Hugh's brave words were sadly belied
by his face, which was not one trained to dissimulation.
The tears do not come very easily
five-and-forty ; but there were tears in Hugh's
eyes now, and Margaret saw them.

1 I can't — I can't give up hope,' he gasped
out half involuntarily.

Very well,' she answered smiling ; ' we
won't give up hope, then ; but there is no harm
in being prepared. And now for my request.
1 want you to write to Philip — here is his
address — and ask him to come and say good-bye
to me. I think, if you write, he will come ;
and, Hugh, if you have anything to forgive
him, you will forgive, won't you — for my
sake ? ' v

Hugh nodded.

I must tell you,' Margaret went on. 'that
I did write to him some time aro, but '

'Is it possible that he didn't answer you?'
cried Hugh, firing up.

• He answered the second time. Don't be
angry, please Hugh ; I quite understand how he
feels. He said it would be painful for us to
meet again, and that it was much better that we
should break off everything than see each other
now and then, and be reminded of how completely
our lives are separated. I don't agree
with him, but I think it is very natural that

he should have take up that idea. He wishes
to spare me pain, I fancy

Hugh fancied that he knew Marescalchi a little
better than that. To him it was as clear as
daylight that, since Philip could no longer get
anything out of his benefactress, he no longer
cared to be troubled with her. But this, of
course, he did not say. He merely observed,
1 You are not asking him to see you " now and
then " though ; you are only asking him to come
once. He could scarcely refuse to do that, I
suppose.'

He will not believe that I am so ill. He
says 1 have allowed myself to get depressed — ■
just as you say, you know — and that I shall be
all right again soon. I am afraid he might not
be convinced even if I wrote a third time ; but
if you told him that I was — dying, I don't think
he could doubt anymore. And, Hugh, we must
not put it off too long

The task laid upon Colonel Kenyon was one
which did not come very easily to that honest
man ; but he discharged himself of it to the best
of his ability, trying to infuse a friendly tone
into his letter, and to avoid all allusions which
might seem to savour of reproach. He could
not bring himself to say that Margaret was
dying, but he did say that she believed herself
to be dying — ' and, whether this be so or no,' he

added, 4 there can be no question that you must
comply with her wish, and come to her. Let
me have a line by return of post to say when we
may expect you ; unless you decide to telegraph,
and start at once, which would be better,
I think.'

Philip did not adopt the latter course; but
the return post brought a somewhat lengthy
reply from him. He said that Colonel Kenyon's
letter had grieved him more than any words of
his could express. Although, for everybody's
sake, he had thought it best to break off all
direct communication with Mrs. Stanniforth, he
was sure that neither she nor Colonel Kenyon
would suppose that he could ever forget her
kindness to him, or that she was not constantly
in his thoughts. He had quite hoped that the
warm South would restore her to health again
4 indeed, I hope this still, and so, as I am
glad to see by your letter, do you. She has
always fancied that she would not live long, and
my own impression is that she is out of health
and spirits, and has allowed this idea to get too
much of a hold upon her. Now, as to my going
out to Bordighera. Of course, since she wishes
it, I will try and manage to do so. It will be a
trial to me, as you will easily understand, when
you remember of whom your party consists;
but that, as our dear Mrs. Winnington used to

say, " is not the question." I have, however, a
difficulty about leaving London at the present
moment.' And then followed a long and rather
incoherent statement, the upshot of which
appeared to be that Mr. Marescalchi had pledged
himself to sing at more than one impending
concert, and that he did not quite see how he
was to break his engagements.

Hugh ground his teeth in impotent rage
when he reached the end of this disingenuous

CD

composition. He had been sitting in Margaret's
room when the letter had been brought to him,
and she guessed its purport at once from his
face.

4 He is not coming ! ' she exclaimed ; ' I know
he is not coming ! '

4 Yes, yes ; he will come. Oh, yes ; he will
come,' answered Hugh soothingly. He glanced
at the fire, wondering whether he could venture
to toss the letter into the flames before she
asked to see it ; but she was too quick for him.

4 Give it to me ! ' she exclaimed excitedly ;
and he dared not refuse, lest he should increase
her agitation.

A week had wrought a great change in
Margaret. The little strength which she had
had seemed suddenly to have deserted her, so
that she could no longer even rise from her sofa
without help, and she had become peevish and

irritable for the first time in the course of her
illness.

He won't believe ! ' she cried despairingly,
throwing down Philip's letter. ' Oh, how dreadful
it is ! How could you be so cruel as to tell
him there was hope, when you knew there was
none ? ' And she covered her face with her
hands, and burst into a fit of hysterical sobbing.

Hugh dropped on his knees beside her, and
began quieting her with loving words; but she
would not listen to him.

4 What shall I do ! — oh, what shall I do ! ' she
moaned. ' It is too late now. I shall never see
my boy again, and it is all your fault.'

Oh, hush Margaret ! ' cried Hugh ; ' you
don't think that.'

1 1 do think it. You are cruel to me. You
did not want him to come, because you knew I
loved him best.'

Poor Hugh got up without a word, walked
to the writing-table, and scribbled off a telegram,
which he presently brought to her to read. ' See,'
said he ; ' I am going to send this at once, and
he will be with you in a day or two.'

Margaret glanced at the paper indifferently.
1 It is no use she said; 'he won't come.
Please go away now, and I shall be better when
you come back again.'

Hugh went away and despatched his telegram

; but it produced no result. Margaret was
right. Philip never came. After a few days
another letter arrived from him, in which he
said plainly that, upon further consideration, he
had decided not to comply with Margaret's wish.
He was sure she would agree with him that,
under all the circumstances, he was better away.
And then he repeated a good deal of what he
had said before, and wound up by declaring
that, while there was life, he, for his part, would
never abandon hope.

It was in Margaret's presence, as before, that
Hugh's daily batch of letters was delivered to
him, and, as before, she asked to be shown the
one which she knew was among them. Hugh
handed it to her silently and not without trepidation
; but he had no reason to fear any recurrence
of her former outbreak, which indeed had
been due as much to physical as to mental
causes. She was calmer now, as well as more
reduced in strength ; and it was without any
bitterness of intention that she said presently :

4 After all, I think Philip is right ; he is
better away.'

Hugh looked at her with inquiring eyes ;
and she went on, a little wistfully : ' I should
like to have seen him once more ; but perhaps
he knows best ; —certainly it would have been
uncomfortable both for him and for Nellie, if

lie had come. And it is always sad to say
good-bye. Hugh, I am afraid I spoke very unkindly
to you the other day.'

1 You didn't mean it, my dear. I quite
understood. Don't trouble to think about that,'
answered Hugh, who, however, had been tar
more deeply wounded than he chose to show.

Xo, I didn't mean it. Poor old Hugh !
it was very hard upon you that you should have
been worried for so many years with the vagaries
of a woman ; for you don't know how to treat
women at all ; you take them much too seriously.
It is nearly over now, though. I wonder whether
we shall ever meet again ! '

4 If I were not as certain of that as I am of
my own existence, I would go and drown myself
tomorrow!' cried Hugh, endeavouring, as
many honest people do, to replace faith by vehemence
of assertion.

Ah, no ! I have been a burden to you ; and
after a time you won't wish to have your burden
back again. It has been a great blunder.'

What has been a blunder ? ' Hugh asked.

My life. I mean. And yet, if it were all todo
over again, I should be just as weak, just as
blind, and just as obstinate.'

In all your life,' said Hugh, 'you have done
nothing to be ashamed of ; and surely there can
be very few people who can say that.'

But of course I can't say that. Even if I
had nothing else to be ashamed of, it would be
bad enough to have murmured and grumbled as
1 have done. My life has not been an unhappy
one really. I had a few months of perfect, absolute
happiness, and I have been very happy
during the last twelve years too ; only I have
always had a silly kind of feeling that I ought
not to acknowledge it. All my misfortunes have
come upon me through my own fault ; and in a
sort of way I foresaw them. Everybody knows
the result of being too indulgent. It is no new
thing that has happened to me.'

All that you have thought of has been how
to please those whom you loved said Hugh ;
and they have made use of you, and turned
their backs upon you when they could make
use of you no longer. That is no new thing, I
suppose.'

He knew that it grieved her to hear the
absent spoken of in that tone ; he knew that
she reproached no one, except herself, and that
among the results of over-indulgence she had
not meant to include ingratitude ; but the pain
and bitterness in his own heart were so great
that he could not altogether conceal them.

He left her by-and-by, and went sadly
downstairs into the brilliant sunshine outside ;
and, as he wandered among the orange-groves,

he thought over his own life, which also seemed
to have been something of a blunder. He had
devoted the best years of it to contemplation
and pursuit of a vision ; for the sake of this he
had separated himself a good deal from other
men ; he had neglected to lay up resources for
himself ; he had become solitary ; and now on
the downhill path, which might be a very long
one, he was to be more solitary still. And
meantime Margaret, too, had had her vision.
That wholly unreal Jack Stanniforth whom she
worshipped had stood between him and her
from first to last, and, at the end of all, he had
not even the poor satisfaction of thinking that
she at all realised what his love for her had
been and was. Neither he nor she had seen
the truth, or desired to see it ; and so, in spite
of all their friendship, they had remained at
cross-purposes throughout. Perhaps there was
nothing new in that either.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

LAST WORDS.

Longbourne is once more possessed and inhabited
by a Br une. Tom Stanniforth, on
succeeding to the property, would gladly have
made a free gift of it to his brother-in-law ; but
to this the latter would in no wise agree, and
eventually a compromise was arrived at, Tom
consenting to accept as purchase-money the
balance of the sum paid by his father, after
deducting that obtained from the Crayminster
and Craybridge Railway, which he said he had
at length become convinced was fairly due to
the original owner of the soil. Mr. Brune shook
his head over this arrangement, which he considered
a very one-sided bargain ; but Mrs.
Tom Stanniforth is extremely angry if anyone
hints that her husband displayed generosity in
the matter or deserves any credit, beyond that
small amount which may be claimed by one who
repairs, somewhat tardily, an act of flagrant
injustice. She boasts, not without reason, that
she has held but one and the same opinion upon

the subject all her life ; 4 and,' says she, ' the
proof that I was right is that Tom, who has the
greatest contempt for my judgment in everything,
has admitted it.'

It may be that Mr. Stanniforth has a contempt
for his wife's judgment ; but it is certain
that he never commits himself to any enterprise
nowadays without consulting her : and there are
people who say that the member for Blackport
has sadly deteriorated since his marriage. As,
however, these people belong to the class which
thrives upon the credulity of the benevolent,
their verdict need not be taken as conclusive.
Mr. Stanniforth is not less benevolent than of
yore ; but he is a little less keen about legislating
for the benefit of aggrieved sections of the community
; and he is so very rich, so hard-working,
and has so large a store of varied information
and experience, that Nellie, who is ambitious,
thinks his benevolence ought to be devoted to
the service of his countrymen at large, and is
determined that he shall be a cabinet minister
before he dies. In the meantime, he is very
well satisfied with his lot as an independent
member, and is in no great hurry to exchange it
for the shackles of office.

Mrs. Winnington is still on the look-out fora
house. Until she discovers one — and everybody
knows the difficulty of finding a thoroughly

suitable home, and how foolish it is to decide
hastily in a matter of so much importance — she
is compelled to yield reluctantly to the solicitations
of her daughters, and to divide her time
between Edith and Lady Travers. Longbourne,
she says, is full of painful associations for her ;
but a sense of duty — which, after all, is your
only true support in the midst of the trials and
difficulties of life — enables her so far to overcome
her feelings as to spend something very like six
months out of the year there.

Prosser remains among the fixtures at Long-bourne,
and rules Edith as she ruled her predecessor.
She is not ill-disposed towards her
new mistress ; though she is often heard to say,
with a sigh, that things is not what they was
in poor dear Mrs. Stanniforth's time.

One day, not long ago, a travelling carriage,
arriving from the direction of Genoa, drew up
at the door of the principal hotel at Bordighera,
and out of it stepped a stout, cheerful-looking
lady and a remarkably handsome young man,
who, while their luggage was being carried in,
took occasion to inquire where the cemetery was
situated. Presently they were seen to start on
their way thither, the stout lady talking volubly,
while the young man sauntered along beside her,
smoking a cigarette, and not, apparently, paying
much attention to her remarks.

4 Poor thing ! ' the lady was saying ; 4 I
should like to have known her.'

4 You wouldn't have cared about her. She
was not in your style at all. She was a quiet
woman, who never spoke much, and who didn't
get on easily with strangers.'

4 1 should have liked her. all the same,' persisted
Signora Tommasini (fur by that name she
is still known to the public, and her friends can
never remember to call her anything else). 4 I
should have liked her because she was so fond
of you and so kind to you. I wish you had
gone to see her before she died.'

4 So do I now. At least, I think I do. I
remember that, at the time, my feeling was that
I would rather die myself than gc'

4 I wish you had thought of coming here
sooner,' continued the Signora.

4 Why didn't you tell me to come, then ?
You know I invariably do as I am told.'

4 Except when you are inclined to do something
else. I shall always think that, if you
would have persevered, I should have made a
great singer out of you some day.'

4 1 am afraid even you would never have
done that. But perhaps, upon the whole, it is
quite as amusing and less troublesome to be a
little singer. And, after all, what's the odds,
so long as you're happy ? '
vol. in. u

The Signora burst into one of her jolly
laughs, and said ' What indeed ? '

Then they both became silent and serious ;
for they had reached the cemetery. They soon
found the white marble monument of which
they were in search, and stood for some minutes
looking at it. The flat stone was almost hidden
by masses of cut flowers which had evidently
been placed there recently ; and, as they went
away, Philip had the curiosity to ask the old
grave digger at the gate who it was that had
paid this graceful tribute to the memory of the
English lady.

Eh ! ' said he, with a jerk of his shoulders ;
who should it be ? There is only one to do it.'

And who is that ? ' Philip asked.

Upon which the old man replied vaguely
that it was ' quel signore die viene sempre.' ' Do
you not know him ? ' he went on. ' He comes
here once, and sometimes twice, every winter —
a tall gentleman with a long nose, who walks
like this.' And the old fellow thrust his head
forward, stuck his hands in his pockets, and took
two or three exaggeratedly long strides.

By Jove ! it's old General Kenyon,' said
Philip. 4 What born actors these people are !
I say — 1 don't think it's much good our stopping
here till tomorrow. Suppose we take the train
on to Monaco ? '

So Signor and Signora Marescalchi slept at
Monte Carlo that night, and the former enjoyed
an exciting evening at trente et quarante ; for his
wife allows him to lose a certain sum at the public
tables, it having been agreed between them that
he shall forswear all forms of private gambling.

1 Everybody has his little vices,' says the
Signora good-humouredly ; * but I believe my
husband has fewer than most men.'

THE End.

London: f BUSTED BY

SPOTTlsWOODE A3D CO New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

wmgmm^

3 0112 052949309
