-•^.^

i

:l^J;

*.^^'

mm.

if.A.'Uf.'j

BY

W. E. XOEKIS

AUTHOR OF 'Matrimony' 'THIRLBY H-UX ' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

LONDON
Richard BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON STREET

publishers in ©rMnarg to ser Utajeslg i^t ^xxtzv.


All rights reserved

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON



I

-^ TO

Arthur MALCOLM HEATHCOTE

FROM AN OLD Friend



X

i

OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. MISS LEFROY, THE HEIRESS 1

II. BAD NEWS-27

III. MORE BAD NEWS . . . . . .45

IV. A FRIEND IX NEED . . . . . . bo

V. THE DOCTOR INTERVENES . . . .87

VI. TRISTRAM, R.A I'H

VII. THE OPINIONS OF MRS. MILLS . . . .121

VIII. MR. HERBERT ON MARRIAGE . . . . 140

IX. AN ALTERNATIVE 157

X. AN UNKNOWN PATRON 182

XI. HOPE IS TOLD THE TRUTH 200

XII. LADY JANE IS MADE HAPPY . . . . 222

XIII. JACOB STILES 239

XIV. MRS. PIERPOINT 265

XV. HOPE DOES HER DUTY 2S1

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/bachelorsblunder01norr

CHAPTEE I.

MISS LEFROY, THE HEIRESS.

*HoPE ? How pretty ! Is that your real name,
or are you only called so by your people P '

I was called so by my godfathers and
godmothers in my Baptism. Have you any
objection ? '

None. I think it is a charming name,
like everything else about you ; only, as one
baby is so very much like another, you know,
it seems odd that anybody should have been
clever enough to hit upon exactly the right
name to call you by. I presume that when
you were a baby you had a little round
mouth, a little round nose, and little round

Vol. I. 15

eyes, like the rest of the species. No one
could have foreseen that you would grow upto—

to '

To the possession of my present perfect
set of features ? Possibly not ; but why do
you say that Hope is exactly the right name
for me ? '

I don't know. Something about the
curve of the lips perhaps, or about your
eyes, which are always rather wide open and
look as if they saw something pleasant, or —
or — well, I am not a very good hand at
explaining myself, but I daresay you understand
what I mean.'

It is not unlikely that she did. At any
rate she must have understood that he meant
to express admiration, and with that degree
of comprehension on her part he would probably
have been satisfied. This was the first
time in her life that she lead been addressed
with such soft flattery : it was also her
first introduction to a London ball-room.
The glitter of the great crystal chandeliers,
the amazing profusion of flowers wliicli loaded

the air with faint odours, the sparkle of innumerable
diamonds, the steady, ceaseless
hum of a multitude of voices, the rhythmic
strains of the Hungarian band, to which her
little feet kept unconsciously beating time
upon the polished floor — all these things excited
her unaccustomed brain, and filled her
with that intoxication of joy in existence
which belongs to youth alone. If it added
something to her happiness to be seated beside
an exceedingly handsome young guardsman
and to listen to the nonsense which it pleased
him to talk, she assuredly did not differ very
much in that particular from other persons of
greater age and experience.

But Captain Cunningham did not suppose
himself to be talking nonsense at all. ' The
Goddess of Hope,' he went on presently,
must have been the very image of you ;
that is, if there ever was such a being. I've
forgotten my gods and goddesses since I left
school.'

You must have a remarkably short
memory.'

b2

All, you say that because sou think I'm
so young ; that is what everybody thinks.
But you're wrong ; I'm quite old in reality —
twenty-four the very next third of August as
ever is, little as you might imagine it. I
suppose,' he added, turning up his face 'towards
her with a sort of innocent gravity,
I do look awfully young ; don't I ?'

She scrutinised his small, refined features,
his dark blue eyes with their long lashes, his
close cut black hair and the smiling mouth,
above which there was but the faintest indication
of a moustache, and answered : ' Well,
yes ; you do. But I don't think I should
mind that much if I were you. We shall
none of us either look young or be young for
more than a few years.'

'Let us make the most of our time
while it lasts, then. Shall we take another
turn?'

She nodded ; he gave her back her fan
(upon which the monogram of ILL. had
afforded him an excuse for asking her what
H. stood for), and soon they were gliding

swiftly round the room with the other
dancers.

After all, the best moments of life are
more connected with trivialities than we care
to admit, and happiness, which we are told
not to expect in this world, and which certainly
is a very different thing from placid
contentment, comes and goes in flashes, seldom
leaving behind it any rational explanation
of its visits. It is doubtful whether, even in
communing with her own heart, Hope Lefroy
ever made such an admission as this : ' I was
happy once. It was on a summer evening ina
big London house ; I was waltzing with the
handsomest man and the best dancer in the
room ; the lights and the colours and the
voices went swimming round us Hke things ina
dream ; I almost forgot my identity, and the
music seemed to be part of us — or else we
were a part of the music. Somebody said :
'what a lovely girl! " and somebody else said :
That is Miss Lefroy — the great heiress, you
know'" Nevertheless she had to wait a
long time before another quarter of an hour

such as that came to her. The above fragments
of conversation were the only words
which reached her ears, and these, fortunately,
were not acute enough to catch the remarks
made by a good-natured person seated near
the door to a lady with a hook nose and
double eyeglasses and somewhat anxious expression
of countenance.

'My dear Lady Jane,' the good-natured
person was saying, ' do you know that this is
the fourth time running that your niece has
danced with Bertie Cunningham. Isn't that
just a little bit dangerous ? '

The lady with the hook nose said : ' I trust
not.'

'really I think it is. Bertie has three
hundred a year from his father, and debts,
and the face of an angel. He is always in
love with somebody, and what is worse is
that somebody is always in love with him.
One can't check these things too soon.'

One can't dash into the middle of a ballroom
and drag one's niece out of danger by
the hair of her head. I will speak to her

when I get an opportunity. The truth is
that she knows no more about — about everything
than a child in arms. Charles has kept
her down in the country half her life, and I
doubt whether she would ever have had a
season in London at all if I had not come to
the rescue.'

How good of you ! '

'I suppose you mean how foolish. Very
likely it was, only it did seem such a pity
that she should remain buried in the depths
of the midlands and perhaps end by marrying
curate. Still, people ought to look after
their own daughters ; I am sure I have
enough to do to look after mine. Of course,
if anything interesting happens I shall get no
credit, and if there is a catastrophe I shall be
blamed. I wonder why younger sons are
always so good-looking, while their' elder
brothers are invariably ugly, or go in for
eccentric fads, or have fits, or something
horrid ! '

Because there is a good deal of rough
justice in human affairs. The elder brothers

don't need personal advantages ; the younger
ones are given handsome faces in order that
they may get on in the world and marry rich
Miss Leprous.'

'You never would say such things if you
knew low uncomfortable it makes me to
hear them. Please take me to the supper-room,
and let us think about something more
pleasant.'

A tall, loosely built man, neither young
nor old, with a long moustache and no other
hair about his face, turned to a brisk elderly
gentleman who was standing beside him and
asked abruptly : ' Is that your niece, Lefroy ? '
The elderly gentleman replied : ' Yes, that is
my niece. A handsome girl, isn't she ? '

Very. To whom are you and Lady Jane
going to marry her ? '

To nobody that I know of. We have
brought her up to London to give her a little
amusement ; she hasn't had too much of that,
poor girl ! '

You don't intend her to marry Cunningham,
do you ? '

Cimniiio^liam ? What CuiiDiDo^liam ?
That boy in the Scots Guards, do you mean ?
Hardly ! All the same I should be glad if she
would marry somebody.'

Why ? '

Because my brother Charles has heart-disease.
You needn't mention this, you knows
but the doctors tell him he may go off suddenly
at any moment ; and, of course, when
poor Charles dies '

'Oh, I see ; you would find her confoundedly
in the way then. You're good-natured
sort of people, but there is nothing
you hate like being made uncomfortable.
Don't mind my saying so, do you ? '

Nobody ever minds what you say,
Herbert, and I confess I don't like beings made
uncomfortable. For the matter of that, I
don't know who does. I tell you what : I
wish you 'd marry the girl yourself.'

'Xo use, Lefroy ; the mothers gave me up
long ago. Ask any dowager you like. I've
had an asterisk before my name for the last
ten years. Xo, I can't help you in that way,

but I'll give you a bit of gratuitous advice :
don't let her see too much of Cunningham.
Not that there's any particular harm in him,
only she ought to do better, I should think.'

Meanwhile, the subject of so much free
discussion was happily unaware of having
made herself in any way conspicuous. When
the waltz was over she very properly requested
her partner to take her back to her
aunt, but as Lady Jane was not to be found —
being indeed at that moment busily engaged
with aspic and champagne elsewhere — she
readily assented to Captain Cunningham's
suggestion that they should ' go and sit down
somewhere.'

It may be that Captain Cunningham's
mental gifts were not quite upon a par with
his physical ones ; at any rate, his stock of
conversational topics seemed to lack variety.
Hope,' he murmured, as he sank down upon
a sofa beside his companion, ' I think it's the
prettiest name I ever heard.'

Something in the manner of his intonation
certainly made it sound pretty, and the girl

answered simply : ' I never thought of it as
being especially so before, but now that you
mention it, perhaps it is rather pretty. It
doesn't mean anything though. I was called
after my mother, who, I believe, was called
after an old Mr. Hope who left her people
some money. So, you see, if my parents
wished to express any sentiment at all in
giving me my name, it must have been
gratitude.'

It is doubtful, however, whether that
sentiment had had any place in her parents'
mind at the time of her birth. If they had
called her Disappointment it would more
nearly have expressed their feelings. To own
a large entailed estate, to have remained a
considerable number of years childless and
then to be presented by Heaven with a
daughter, is not among the experiences which
evoke prompt thanksgiving ; nor was ]vir.
Lefroy the kind of man to take comfort from
thinking that his daughter's advent might in

DO O

due season be followed by that of a son or
sons. ' I know what it will be,' he said

resignedly, Alien he was told the news ; ' 1
shall have twelve little girls now.' But outrageous
Fortune did not deal with him quite
so hardly as that, for he never had another
child of either sex, and when he lost his wife
he was too advanced in years to think of
marrying again.

Thus Hope became a great heiress, Mr.
Lefroy being a rich man independently of his
acres. For generations past, as various collateral
branches of the family had withered
away, money had poured in upon the successive
heads of the house, sometimes in driblets,
sometimes in considerable streams, as it has a
way of doing upon those who do not require
it ; and over this accumulation Hope's father
had, of course, undisputed control. During
his lifetime the hoard had increased greatly.
At first neither he nor this wife had been able
quite to forgive their little daughter for not
being a boy. Without being in the least unkind
to her they had not cared to see much of
her, and had willingly committed her to the
care of the best nurses and governesses that

money could procure. They had spent a
large portion of their time in London and in
foreign wanderings, while the child was left

O 7

in the pure country air of her home, which,
as they said, was so much better for her. The
sight of her reminded them of their disappointment,
and to Mrs. Lefroy in particular
conveyed something in the nature of a tacit
reproach. To her dying day the good lady
did not altogether get over this feeling, and,
conscientiously though she strove to conceal
it, never succeeded in so doing ; but when
Hope was about ten years old, her father's
point of view underwent a sudden and complete
change. Either because the child was
so pretty and so winning in her ways or
because his own nature was an affectionate
and his wife's a somewhat cold one, he began
to worship the little heiress to whom he could
bequeath neither house nor lands. It occurred
to him that, so far from his having a grievance
against her, it was she who had the best rii^ht
to complain of her sex being what it was. Heat
least would live and die in the old place ;

but lie must, some day or other, give up the
home that she loved to the heir of entail;
and what might have seemed no hardship at
all if she had had a brother, assumed a very
different aspect v^hen it was a case of retiring
in favour of an uncle or cousin. So Mr. Lefroy
set himself to save money, and accomplished
with little effort a task which to most people
is both difficult and painful. Since Hope
could never be Miss Lefroy of Helston Abbey,
she should at any rate be Miss Lefroy the
heiress — an heiress so great that she would be
able, if it should so please her, to raise a
second Helston elsewhere, as Helens founded
a new Troy on the shores of Epirus. This
saving process did not bring about any curtailment
of daily luxuries, but it made it
necessary — or so Mr. Lefroy declared — that
he should live quietly at home and give up
his London house, and to that plan Mrs.
Lefroy, who during the last years of her life
was a confirmed invalid, offered no opposition.
When Hope was between fifteen and sixteen
her mother died ; and after that she and

lier father became closer companions than
ever. Their companionship, indeed, was somewhat
too close ; for each found the other's
society all-suiBcient, and they mixed less with
their friends and neighbours than was good
for either of them. During the hunting season
they were occasionally seen — a spare, means
man, very well turned-out, and
a fair-haired girl whose sunny face developed
into greater beauty year by year — but nobody
got much beyond bare civilities with this
couple, and the vast house in which they
lived was rarely enlivened by visitors. From
time to time relations were asked down to
stay ; but the relations found it so intolerably
dull that they were generally telegraphed for
on the second or third day, and had to leave
precipitately. Sometimes, too, a stray artist
would be invited to partake of Mr. Lefroy's
hospitality ; and the artist, as a rule, enjoyed
himself. He could not but be glad of the
opportunity of studying the Helston Abbey
picture-gallery, which was not open to the
public, and he was sure of being treated with

the utmost consideration and respect by his
host, who was himself an amateur painter of
no mean ability, and whose love for art of
every kind was second only to his love for his
daughter. When Mr. Lefroy took Hope upto
London for a few days — as he did every
now and then — it was almost always in order
to attend a sale at Christie's. The old man
was well known in the King Street rooms,
where, in former years, he had been a frequent
purchaser. He no longer bought much, having
another use for his money now ; but it pleased
him to examine the treasures exposed for sale,
and nobody knew better than he did whether
these fetched more or less than their value.
There is every reason to believe that he would
have gone on taking his daughter to art sales,
and imagining that by so doing he was giving
her the greatest of possible treats, had he not
chanced, on his way back from one of these
entertainments, to encounter his sister-in-law
Lady Jane.

Lady Jane stared very hard, not at him,
but at his companion, and muttered under her

breath : ' Eeally, it is too bad ! ' What she
saw was a tall, well-grown girl, with a slightly
aquiline nose, a quantity of golden hair very
unfashionably arranged, and a pair of large,
wide-open, grey eyes. Nobody ever beheld
whiter or more even teeth than this girl displayed
presently when something made her
laugh, nor could there be anywhere, in London
or out of it, a more exquisite complexion. It
really was too bad ; and there was nothing for
an aunt of proper feeling to do but to promise
her niece a London season and disappoint her
not, though it should be to her own hindrance
(for she herself had two unmarried daughters,
whose beauty was of a less striking order).

The next day Lady Jane called on her
brother-in-law, and pointed out to him that
the time had come for Hope to be presented
at Court and to assume her place in society.
'If you won't take her about, we must,' she
said ; and Mr. Lefroy assented with a sigh —
the more willingly, perhaps, because he had
just returned with a rather graver face than
usual from consulting his doctor.

Vol. I. C

'It must come some day, I suppose,' lie
remarked. ' It is a pity. Hope is perfect as
she is, and you will do your best to spoil lier
among you. Still, I suppose it would have
had to come some day. I wish I knew how it
would end ! '

I daresay I can tell you,' his sister-in-law
replied, laughing a little ; ' it will end in the
natural way.'

What Lady Jane considered natural was
that the e^irl should ere lon^j become eno^aored
to some unexceptionable person, chosen for
her by her thoughtful relatives ; but perhaps
it was even more natural that at Hope's first
ball she should be sitting in a retired corner
with an attractive young guardsman, and
communicating to him the greater part of the
personal history set forth above.

Her auditor appeared to take a lively
interest in all that she told him. He was a
young man with many connections and more
friends ; from the day on which he was
gazetted to his battalion society of every sort
and kind had been open to him, and, as he

himself would have said, he ' knew his way
about pretty well.' K he had not studied
feminine nature very exhaustively, he had at
any rate had sufficient opportunities of doing
so, and not long before this time he had
gravely confided to a brother officer, as the
result of his observation, that one woman was
uncommonly like another. However, he had
never met anyone quite like ]\Iiss Lefroy
before ; and it is perfectly possible that, even
if she had not happened to be the prettiest
girl in the room, he would have been captivated
by her manner, which had the kind of
self-possession that children have before they
grow old enough to be shy, besides an amusing
little touch of condescension every now and
then, due, no doubt, to the circumstance that
Miss Lefroy had hitherto been thrown more
amongst social inferiors than amongst equals.

'Are you fond of shooting?' she asked.
'•If you are, you might run down to Hel-son
some time in the autumn and pay us a
visit.'

The young man passed his hand across his

lips to smooth away a smile. ' You are very
kind,' he answered gravely ; ' but hadn't I>
perhaps, better wait until Mr. Lefroy asks
me?'

You would have to wait a long time, I
am afraid. It very seldom occurs to my
father to invite people to stay ; although
when they come he is generally the better for
it, I think. Probably, if there was anybody
else in the house, he would hardly notice
whether you were there or not. And I should
like you to see Hist on.'

'I should like to see it very much. It
must be rather an odd sort of place in someways.'


Odd ? What do you mean ? '

Well, it seems to produce things that
don't generally grow in the country. Young
ladies, for instance, who dance as beautifully
as if they had been doing nothing else all
their lives, and who can snub a humble acquaintance
without any difficulty.'

Is that because I said my father wouldn't
notice you ? I should not have supposed that

you would mind ; but perhaps you are not so
humble as you make yourself out. Unfortunately,
my father is rather absent-minded, and
there is only one way of attracting his attention
that I know of : have you ever painted
a picture ? '

Can't say that I ever have ; but I daresay
I might manage it if I tried.'

Oh, you think so ? Decidedly humility
is not one of your failings. Xow I, who have
been patiently learning to draw and paint ever
since I could hold a brush or a pencil, never
ventured to submit a composition of my own
to my father until about a month ago. And
how do you suppose he received it ? '

'With tears of joy I should think.'

No ; if he had shed tears they would not
have been tears of that kind, I am afraid.
He screwed up his eyes and stroked his chin,
and looked very much inclined to run away ;
and then he said : " My dear, I can see that
you have taken great pains over this." Farther
than that he couldn't go, much as he would
have liked to go farther. It only shows '

That Mr. Lefroy ought to be deprived of
his daughter until he learns to appreciate her
broke in a voice from the background, at the
sound of which the girl turned round with a
little cry of pleasure.

You at a ball ! ' she exclaimed. ' After
this nothing will ever surprise me again.'

The intruder advanced, holding out a long,
lean, gloveless hand. His clothes hung loosely
upon a massive frame ; his shirt-front was
crumpled ; the white tie, knotted round his
throat, looked more like a huge pocket-handkerchief
than anything else ; and these trifles,
quite as much as a certain rugged grandeur
about his square head with its grizzled beard
and its mane flung back from the brow,
made him a conspicuous figure among that
crowd of men who, old and young alike,
were turned out after an identical neat pattern.


Why may I not have a treat every now
and then, like other people ? ' he asked, smiling.
When we parted. Miss Hope, I should have
said that nothing was more unlikely than that

our next meeting should take place in a ballroom
; yet here we both are, you see. The
difference between us is that you take to it
as a duckling takes to water, whereas I am
altogether out of my element. The difference
between age and youth, in short.'

Hope laughed : 'Are you not enjoying
yourself? ' she asked.

Do I look as if I were enjoying myseK?
Still, I have enjoyed watching you. It's a
new character, and I can't deny that it's a
becoming one, though I think I like the
other best. Honestly now, which do you
prefer, dancing or painting ? '

Will you wither me with scorn if I say
dancing' ? '

Not I ! I only wish I were of an age to
agree with you. Dance away. Miss Hope,
there's a time for all things. Only thank
Heaven and your father that you have a
pursuit to fall back upon. Sooner or later,
the day comes when we all need that. Work
and tobacco have been my two best friends in
life. I shouldn't like to see you with a pipe

in your mouth ; but I shall always be glad to
see you standing before an easel.'

You think I have the makings of an artist
in me, then ? ' asked the girl, with some
eagerness.

'That is not the question,' returned the
other, and strode away unceremoniously.

Who is that very — abrupt old party ? '
inquired the guardsman.

Don't you know ? ' exclaimed Hope.
Why, that is Mr. Tristan.'

The thought of my ignorance makes me
blush all over ; but I am obliged to confess
that I am not much the wiser.'

Oh, you must be ! Surely you must have
heard of Tristram, the great artist ? '

Oh, that Tristram ! Yes ; I've heard of
him, of course ; seen his pictures too. They're
a little beyond me, I think, though I've no
doubt they are magnificent, as everybody says
so. I never met him before ; he doesn't look
exactly the kind of person whom one would
be likely to meet, does he ? '

• That would depend upon what company

you keep, I suppose. He is the kind of person
who knows everyone that is worth knowing.'

So much for an unlucky beggar whom
he doesn't know! Lady Jane, I wish you
would come and take my part ; I'm catching
it like anything because I'm not on terms of
intimacy with all the Eoyal Academicians.'

But Lady Jane, who had just borne down
upon the couple, did not seem at all disposed
to take the part of this impecunious and
rather forward young man. She ignored his
appeal, and said to her niece, with some little
severity of tone : ' My dear Hope, I couldn't
think what had become of you ! We are going
home now.'

Captain Cunningham, however, was not
the man to let himself be so summarily disposed
of. He accompanied the ladies downstairs,
helped ]\Iiss Lefroy into the carriage,
stood for a few minutes talking; to her after
she was seated, and took care to find out what
her engagements for the next day were before
he bade lier CTood-niHit.

Half an hour later, when Hope was in her

bedroom, she noticed that a strip of white
ribbon which she had attached to the handle
of her fan was missing ; and among other
memory-pictures which passed before her
drowsy eyes ere they closed, was a vision of a
young man in evening dress standing in the
open doorway of a brilliantly lighted house,
and thrusting something — could it be a scrap
of white ribbon ? — into the pocket of his coat.
The vision, it may be assumed, was not wholly
displeasing to her ; for she fell asleep with a
smile upon her lips. Hon soit qui mal y
'pense ! She saw no reason to grudge the
poor youth such a trifle if he valued it, being
as yet ignorant of the important part that
ribbons play in the affairs of this world : of
how great men will bribe and scheme to get a
blue one, and victorious generals swell with
satisfaction when they are permitted to hang
a red one round their necks, and low young
guardsmen with a few hundreds a year cannot
possibly be entitled to ribbons of any colour —
or even of no colour, such as white ones.

CHAPTER II.

BAD NEWS.

Mr. Montague Lefeoy, M.P., was a man against
whom no one lead ever been found cross-grained
enough to say a word. It is not necessary
to be great, wise, witty, or munificent in
order to gain the love of your fellow-creatures,
whose demands, after all, are moderate enough,
and who ask Httle more of you than that you
shall have a pleasant face, decent manners,
and wine which may be swallowed without
danger to the health of the swallowed. All
these titles to esteem Mr. Montague Lefroy
possessed, besides a very nice house in Eaton
Square, where guests were ever welcome, and
a still nicer house in the midland counties,
with excellent shooting attached, and a sufficiency
of hunting within easy distance to
satisfy most people.

It is not every younger son who can boast
of such advantages ; but a poor Lefroy would
have been a contradiction in terms. This
one had inherited a good round fortune, and
many years back his elder brother had handed
over to him for his sole use and behoof the
house and estate of Southcote, which, though
humble by comparison with the grandeurs of
Helston Abbey, was yet a large enough place
to content any unambitious country gentleman.
Mr. Montague Lefroy was not ambitious,
and was perfectly contented. He had always
been able to gratify his tastes and at the same
time to live within his income. In early life
he had gone in for racing in a modest way,
but had abandoned this form of amusement as
his family grew up. He had a yacht ; but,
for reasons of which he made no secret, he
seldom took her out of the Solent. From the
age of four-and-twenty he had sat uninterruptedly
for the southern division of his county,
and took a good-humoured, amateurish sort
of interest in politics. It is, perhaps, hardly
necessary to say that he was a Conservative ;

yet he could make allowance for the notions
of other men. Eaclicahsm rather amused
than alarmed him. He had, as he said, ' gone
into the whole matter ' at the commencement
of his career and had formed opinions which
he had never since seen reason to change.
Doubtless the world was far from perfect, and
there were social problems and anomalies
which were apt at first to unsettle the inind
of the earnest inquirer ; but, when once you'
had realised that these things existed by the
will of Heaven, it was all plain sailing. If
there was anything so clear as to need no
demonstration, it was that in all communities
there must be rich and poor : it had been so
from the beginning ; to all appearance it would
be so up to the end. Therefore let every man
strive to do his duty in that state of life unto
which it had pleased God to call him, and
cease to repine because he was not somebody
else.

The voice of this optimistic legislator was
not often heard at St. Stephen's ; but when
he did speak it was in an easy, colloquial

manner wliicli invariably charmed and tickled
his audience. For a quarter of a century or
more he had watched with benign equanimity
the forward march of Democracy, voting
against it of course, but not conceiving that
the Constitution was in any immediate peril :
the passing of Mr. Gladstone's Irish Land Act
Alas perhaps the only thing that had ever
given him a serious shock. Against it he had
felt bound to deliver one of the few speeches
with which he is credited in the pages of
Hansard. Let us make no mistake, he said ;
this was nothing less than a revolutionary
measure. He candidly confessed that he did
not know much about Leland himself; had
only been there once ; was glad to say that
he owned no land there, and was willing to
accept provisionally the statements of honourable
members Who claimed to be better informed.
What he did know was that the
rights of property must be considered as the
foundation-stone of the social edifice ; and
the House might take his word for it that,
when once they began chipping and hammering

at that, they would have the whole blessed
building down about their ears sooner than
they expected.

There was a food deal of laughter at this,
and somebody wished to know whether the
expression ' blessed building ' was Parliamentary.
The Speaker ruled that it was ;
and Mr. Lefroy, having said his say and done
his duty to the country, crossed his legs and
went to sleep. A subservient majority, as we
know, passed the Act, and the consequences
must be upon their own heads. They cannot
at any future date plead that Mr. Montague
Lefroy did not warn them of what they were
about.

Hope was fond of her uncle, Who also was
fond of her — as indeed he was of most people.
When she came downstairs on the morning
after the ball she found him alone at the
breakfast-table, and he looked up from his
newspaper to say :

See what it is to have country habits !
I do not suppose your aunt and the girls
will put in an appearance for another hour.

Well, I hope you enjoyed yourself last
night ? '

Immensely,' answered Hope, with fervour.

As much as all that ? Don't overdo it,
you know. I mean, enjoy yourself as much
as you please ; only, if I were you, I would
try to enjoy myself with a rather larger
number of people. Variety is salutary.'

'When one is dancing, one can only talk
to one's partner.'

Yes ; but one need not talk to the same
partner throughout the evening. Especially
if his name happens to be Cunningham.'

Is there anything against Captain Cunningham,
Uncle Montague ? '

Well, I believe he is rather a flirtations
young gentleman.'

He didn't flirt with me,' said Hope
calmly.

Didn't he ? I wonder what you define
as flirtation at Ilelston ! Besides, he hasn't a
sixpence.'

Poor fellow ! '

Oh, poor fellow as much as you like ;

but you had better not become too friendly
with him. In point of fact,' added Mr. Lefroy,
confidentially, ' I expect you'll get into a row
with your aunt if you do.'

Hope did not care to pursue the subject.
Is there anything in the Times this morning ? '
she asked.

Xot much. Another big bank gone
smash, I see ; the Bank of Central England.
The paper says lots of people are list by it —
people whom one knows, I mean. How any
man can be such a lunatic as to hold shares
in an unlimited concern passes my comprehension.
I recollect Charles speaking to me
about it ; I hope to goodness he isn't a shareholder.'


Oh, dear, no ! ' answered Hope. ' Fancy
Papa running any risks ! He wouldn't sleep
quietly if he was getting more than four percent,
for any investment.'

I suppose not. Well, I must be off. Remember
my little hint, there's a good girl.
After all, one man does to dance with pretty

Vol. I. D

nearly as well as another, and it isn't worth
while to vex your aunt.'

This Mr. Lefroy said both because he had
long ago become personally convinced that it
was never worth while to vex Lady Jane, and
because he had discovered that his niece was
fond of taking her own way. It will be perceived
that he was not quite the most skilful
diplomatist in the world. Hope made no rejoinder
; but when he had left the room she
said to herself that, whatever her future conduct
with regard to Captain Cunningham
might be, it certainly would not be influenced
by fear of her aunt's displeasure.

Her cousins, Alice and Gertrude, joined
her presently. They were pleasant, good-humoured
girls, having inherited the paternal
disposition ; they had neat figures, and were
rather pretty than otherwise, though without
much to boast of in the way of feature.
Although one of them was a year, and the
other two years, older than Hope, they had
always entertained a high respect for her —
not only because she was an heiress, and to

all intents and purposes lier own mistress,
but because, as they frankly admitted, lie
did everything better than they did : talked
better, played better, and danced better, besides
possessing an artistic talent which they
looked upon as prodigious. In all matters
relating to dress they had a blind faith in her
taste, of which they availed themselves whenever
they could. They proposed to avail
themselves of it now.

Hope,' said Gertrude, ' wouldn't you like
to come with me and help me to choose a
hat ? As sure as I attempt to select anything
for myself that I think particularly becoming,
so surely is the result enough to make angels
weep. I can't conceive why things should
look so very different in the shop from what
they do when they are sent home.'

Oh, and Hope,' put in Alice, ' would you
very much mind coming on to the dressmaker's
afterwards ? She would never dare
to snub you as she does me, and I know
exactly what I want, if I could only get her
to listen. We can have the carriage, because

d2

Mamma cliangGcl her mind after she had
ordered it, and said she wouldn't 2^0 out this

morning.'

A woman who dishes shopping may bean
admirable person ; but in the eyes of the
impartial observer there is apt to be a slight
prima facie case against her, as there is
against a man who dislikes tobacco. Hope
answered, quite truthfully, that she would be
delighted to accompany her cousins. Probably,
also, she was not unwilling to avoid the
chance of a private interview with her aunt,
for which, on account of some reason or other
that she did not care to examine too closely
she felt disinclined at that especial moment.
One cannot give reasons for all one's feelings ;
nor, as a general thing, is it in the least desirable
that one should. Hope, as she was
driven in an open carriage from shop to shop,
through the sunny smoky mist which gives
the atmosphere of London a peculiar golden
tinge in fair weather, was conscious of being
in high spirits — in higher spirits, it might be,
than there was anything to warrant— but, like

a true philosopher, she accepted the pleasant
fact, and did not attempt to pry into its
cause.

What was certain was that the appearance
of the entire city had marvellously
changed for the better. She could hardly
believe that these were the dull ugly streets
alone which her father had been wont to
hurry lier during their flying visits to the
Metropolis, and where the last thing that one
would ever have expected would have been to
recognise an acquaintance among the crowd
of uninteresting people that thronged them.
They wore a cheerful animated aspect now,
and were quite full of friendly faces. Several
young gentlemen with high shirt-collars and
bouquets in their buttonholes raised their hats
to the three girls as the carriage passed ;
ladies in other carriages nodded and smiled ;
everything and everybody seemed to be proclaiming
that it was the season, that all the
world was in town, that Miss Lefroy had been
to a ball last night, and that she was going to
another to-nicrht. Near Buckingham Palace

they met a detachment of the Guards, with
fifes and drums and an officer, the pont of
whose nose could be discerned beneath his
bearskin. One of the girls exclaimed : ' Surely
that is Captain Cunningham ! ' And though
it was not Captain Cunningham — for the nose
turned up ridiculously, and was quite unlike
his — still it might have been ; and there was
something very exhilarating in the discovery
that, after all, one may sometimes chance
upon an acquaintance in London without
previous appointment. Hope had always
hitherto supposed that it was far too huge a
place for that.

It was past two o'clock before they were
back in Eaton Square, and as they got out of
the carriage Alice remarked that she believed
some people were coming to luncheon : it
appeared that people dropped in to luncheon
almost every day in that house. Hope found
them in the drawing-room when she went
downstairs after changing her dress.

To the last day of her life she will remember
those people, and their names, and the

clothes that they wore, and how they looked :
the long cool room darkened by sun-binds ;
the blaze of flowers in the windows ; Lady
Jane stifling a yawn ; the little fat man,
bubbling over with laughter, who was telling
a story about somebody who had been
chucked over his horse's head in Rotten Eow ;
and then the door opening suddenly and
her Uncle Montague coming in, with a pale,
grave face. Instantly she felt that some
calamity had befallen her. Wlien her uncle
stepped hastily to her side and whispered :
My dear, Avill you come into the next room
with me for a minute ? ' it was as if all this
had occurred at some previous time ; the
little dark library into which he led her had a
familiar look, though she had never entered
the room before ; she seemed to know exactly
what his next words would be.

Hope, my dear, can you be ready to go
home with me in half an hour ? Your father
has been taken ill.'

I am ready now,' she answered, quite
quietly.

Lady Jane had followed them ; the two
old people were looking at her with kindly,
distressed faces. They were urging her todo
something : what was it ? To eat ? She
smiled a little, and answered that she was
not hungry ; she would rather start at
once.

No, no ; plenty of time,' her uncle said.
If we start in half an hour we shall catch
the 3.20, and your maid can follow with your
things by a later train. Eun downstairs now
and get some luncheon ; or tell them to bring
it up to you if you would rather have it in
your own room. I can't tell you anything ; I
have no particulars — only a telegram,' he
added hurriedly.

Hope understood that he was anxious to
get rid of her ; so she went away without a
word.

As soon as the door had closed Lady Jane
asked : ' What is it, Montague ? Anything
very serious ? '

Her husband handed her a telegram.
From the butler,' he said.

Good heavens ! how dreadfully sudden ! '
exclaimed Lady Jane, dropping her eyeglasses
and the telegram, which last consisted of only
the following five words : ' ^h\ Lefroy died
this morning.'

The heir of Helston Abbey and its dependencies
blew his nose. To do him justice,
he was not thinking about his inheritance at
that moment, and had never at any time been
eager to enter upon it. ' Poor Charles I
poor old fellow ! ' he said. ' The last time I
saw him he told me his heart was all wrong ;
but I never expected this. Somehow, one
never does expect— confound it all ! Jane, I
can't tell that poor girl. Wouldn't — couldn't
yon ? ' he added, appealingly.

Lady Jane shrank back. ' Surely it would
be better to get her home first. I can go
down tomorrow, if you wish.'

Only, of course, she will have to be told
to-night.'

The truth was that neither of these worthy
people had any taste for discharging painful
duties. Life had been made very easy for

them, and on the rare occasions wien anything
unpleasant had to be done, each generally
tried to get behind the other. This
system of tactics, if persisted in, is tolerably
sure to bring about a collision between the
manoeuvres, and thus it was that Mr. Montague
Lefroy, who abhorred collisions, commonly
found himself in the post of honour.
He accepted it now without much protestation
: indeed, he could not but admit that
there was reason in what Lady Jane urged,
and that it would be wiser to get the journey
over before allowing his niece to guess the
full extent of her misfortune. The only
question Alas whether the journey could possibly
be got over without an explanation of
some kind.

Happily for him, it was so — or nearly so.
On taking his seat in the railway carriage, he
hid himself behind a newspaper, round the
corner of which he peered cautiously from
time to time at Hope, who, seated opposite
to him with her chin upon her hand, was
gazing abstractedly out of the window. Her

In truth, the girl had Httle confidence in
her uncle. Lie knew that whatever the news
might be lie would make the best of it ;
perhaps also, at the bottom of her heart,
there was an unacknowledged fear which
kept her silent. Nevertheless, when the distance
was about half accomplished, she made
an effort and said :

May I see the telegram, Uncle Montague
? '

The telegram ? Dear me ! I'm afraid I
left it behind I ' answered Mr. Lefroy, glad to
be able to say so truthfully.

What were the words? '

I — I don't exactly recollect,' replied her
uncle, not quite so truthfully this time.

Hope sighed and made no further inquiries
; her one wish was to reach home.
But when at length they did reach Helston
Abbey, when they had driven across the
park, in sight of the great house to which
she dared not lift her eves, and when the old

butler came down the steps to meet them,

witJi this face twitching and quivering then

she knew that home was home no longer, and
that that wish of lies could never be fulfilled.


CHAPTEE in.

MORE BAD News.

The word ' never ' is scarcely' understood by
any of us, so completely are we the slaves of
time ; and perhaps it is even more incomprehensible
to the young than to their elders.
The blow which had fallen so suddenly upon
Hope Lefroy was so far easier to bear that
it stunned her as it fell, and, for twenty-four
hours at least, rendered her incapable of really
feeling anything. Xevertheless, she had all her
wits about her. She knew quite well that her.
father was dead ; she had seen his body lying,
stiff and silent, in what had once been his
bedroom, and had kissed the cold forehead.
She had heard the sobbing servants relate
how it had all happened ; how the newspaper

lead been taken up to the study as usual,
directly it arrived ; how, about five minutes
afterwards, Mr. Goodwin (the butler) had
fancied he heard a fall, and, hurrying upstairs,
had found his master lying, face downwards,
on the ground ; how a groom had
been despatched immediately for the doctor,
who, on his arrival, had pronounced death to
have been instantaneous — ' his very words,
Miss Hope.' All this she had listened to
without a tear ; the only thought that made
her shudder for a moment was that while
her father had been lying dead she had been
laughing and chattering with her cousins in
the London streets, and saying to herself what
a pleasant thing life was.

Her uncle was amazed at her calmness.
He patted her on the shoulder and called hera
brave girl, not knowing very well what to
say by way of comfort to one who seemed so
little in need of being comforted. When he
remarked : ' We will get your aunt and the
girls down ; you mustn't be left all by yourself,
you know,' she answered quickly : 'Oh, please

don't ! it would be such a pity to interfere withall
their amusement,' and then gave a little
nervous laugh. Of course there could be
no more amusement for them that season.

I don't know what to make of her,' the
worth' man said to his wife when she arrived ;
she's as cold as a block of ice. That will
never do ; she'll be getting a brain-fever or
something, if we don't mind. You must
manage to make her cry somehow.'

But time and nature accomplished what
might, perhaps, have proved beyond Lady
Jane's powers. The girl's numbed senses
woke with throbbing of pain which increased
every hour ; she began to realise her desolation,
and if tears were what was wanted to
preserve her from an illness she was soon safe.
Her aunt and cousins were as kind and sympathetic
as it was possible for them to be ;
but it was not possible for them to sympathise
in any true sense. They had never really
known the dead man, nor could they know
the extent of her loss. All the incidents of
their long companionship came back to her ;

she remembered, as everyone does at such
times, a hundred trifling instances of his
thought for lier ; he had not been specially
demonstrative, it was not his nature to be so ;
but every now and then he had spoken a
tender word or two which had been all the
more valued for their rarity. She had never
had a plan, or a pleasure, or an anxiety, with
which he had not been connected, and now he
was gone and the world was empty. All day
long a song of Shelley's, which he had been
fond of and had often made her sing to him,
kept ringing in her head : ' Death is here,
death is there ' — everyone knows the lines : —

All things that we love and cherish,
Like ourselves, must slide and perish.
Such is our rude mortal lot,
Love itself would, did they not.

Perhaps the significance of the last words
escaped her ; at any rate, she might be permitted
to doubt their truth. As she sat
alone, with her hands before her, she said to
herself ac^ain and aii^ain that she could never
be happy any more; she was too young to

know that sorrow is as much doomed to fade
as all other things.

Like is cured by like : there is no more
certain remedy for trouble than a second dose
of the same upon the top of the first. The
treatment may not be an agreeable one ; but
it is generally found bracing by those who
have any constitution in them to be braced or
any courage to be roused. Of courage Hope
Lefroy had always had plenty, and she was
soon to discover that she would have need of
all that she possessed. One day, about a week
after the funeral, her maid came in to say :
If you please, i'm, could sirs. Mills see you
before she leaves? Lie's going away this
afternoon.'

Hope was sitting in the spacious, sunny
room which she had been wont to use as a
studio. Her painting materials lay where
she had left them before her departure for
London ; the unfinished picture upon which
she had been engaged stood upon its easel,
covered with a cloth ; she had dracfcred an
arm-chair into the bay-window, where of late

Vol. I. E

she had sat, hour after hour, gazing idly at
the flowers in the garden beneath, which went
on blooming for their new master as they had
for the old, and had no consolation to offer
her. Only once since her return had she
gone downstairs, and that had been to follow
her father's body to the grave. Relations,
connections, and friends had assembled inlarge
numbers to pay the last tribute of
respect to the late owner of Ilelston Abbey ;
some had spent a night in the house, and a
few had penetrated into Hope's room to take
her by the hand and utter the halting commonplaces
which must be uttered at such
times. Every day her aunt or one of her
cousins came and sat with her for an hour or
so, and she managed to talk cheerfully to
them about this, that, and the other, but she
had not yet felt able to take her place in the
dining-room, nor had anyone pressed her todo
so.

Mills going away ! ' she said, with a bewildered
look. ' Why is lie going away ? '

'Well, i'm,' answered the maid, looking

down, ' she says she ought to be with her
husband now.'

Hope sighed. Of course there must be
changes, and of course old faces must vanish.
Mills was the first to go ; others must follow,
she herself must go soon, she supposed. Certainly
it was time that she began to think of
these things-ask !Mills to come in,' she
said.

Shortly after Hope's birth hills had been engaged
as nurse, and she had never left Helston
since. After her services were no longer required
she had been retained at the child's
earnest entreaty — in what capacity it would
be difficult to say. She was supposed to be
generally useful, and perhaps she was so ; in
any case a servant more or less could make
little difference in so large an establishment.

Somewhat late in life Mills had taken it
into her head to marry the second coachman,
a man considerably her junior ; but her matrimonial
fetters had not weighed heavily upon
her. When her husband, by way of bettering
himself, had taken service with a London

doctor in a large practice, lie lead never dreamt
of accompanying him to his new home. Time
enough for that, she said, when Miss Hope
married. So long as Miss Hope was Miss
Hope she meant to remain with her. But
now, it seemed, she had changed her mind. She
came in presently — a tall, gaunt woman, past
middle age, with a face of wavering outline,
like a potato, and features which suggested
that the second coachman had been moved to
espouse their owner by some other incentive
than love. Her nose turned up, the corners of
her mouth turned down, and, to complete the
list of her charms, she had a pair of goggle
eyes, which just now were swollen with recent
weeping. Yet her face, like many other plain
faces, was not disagreeable to look at, its expression
being one of quiet, honest kindliness.
Her late master had been wont to say
of her that she was as ugly as a bulldog and
as faithful.

Sit down, Mills,' said Hope. ' So you are
going to leave me, I hear.'

Ah, Miss Hope,' answered the woman,

lowering her angular person stiffly to the edge
of a clair and sighing, ' it isn't for my own
pleasure that I leave you, Lord knows ! But
I don't feel it's right for me to be eating Mr.
Montague's bread ; and George writes me that
he's took the house and got the furniture' in ;
only he can't do nothing about lodgers till I
come, he says. So I thought to myself,
Sooner or later it has got to be done, and
the sooner the better, maybe," I thought.'
And she heaved another prodigious sigh.

Do you mean that you are going to keep
lodcrincfs in London, and be worried from
morning to night by horrid, dirty servants,
and by people who will accuse you of stealing
the sugar, and will smoke in the drawing-room,
and make themselves obnoxious in all
sorts of ways ? You won't like it, Mills.'

I daresay not, Miss Hope.'

Then why do you do it ? Why don't
you stay with me ? '

Ah, my dear, I can't do that. I used
sometimes to think I'd no business stopping
on here, taking my wages and not earning my

keep, even when — when — things was different.

But now ' And Mills sighed for the third

time.

Don't sigh like that, you silly old Mills ;
you make quite a draught in the room. Staying
with me doesn't mean staying at Helston.
We must both look out for a new home
soon ; but I should like to keep you with me.
And I shall want a coachman, I suppose.
Couldn't we entice George away from the
doctor?'

Mills gasped, made a hideous grimace,
and then, to Hope's consternation, burst into
tears. ' Oh dear, oh dear ! ' she sobbed,
don't talk like that, child ; you'll break my
heart ! To think that your uncle should turn
you out of your own house ! — for it is your
house, as I'll maintain in the face of all the
judges and juries in the land. Laws indeed I
Bother their laws ! Call this a free country
and then tell me that a father mustn't leave
his own property to his own child ! Mr.
Montague didn't ought to take the place, and
I don't care who hears me say so.'

'I am afraid lie cant help it, Mills,'
answered Hope, smiling. ' It is no more this
to give away than it was poor Papa's.'

Then he ought to make it np to you in
money,' said ]wills, drying her eyes. ' It can't
be ri^rht that he should be so rich, whilst

you— you

As far as that goes, I am rich too,' Hope
remarked.

Mis appeared to be upon the brink of
another outburst of sobbing ; but she restrained
herself and, getting up, walked to
the window.

My dear,' she said, after a pause, ' if you
was as rich as Creases you couldn't hive all by
yourself. Helston must be your home till you
marry ; and glad and happy your uncle and
aunt will be able to keep you. I will say for
them that I believe they'll be proud to keep
you, and let you have your old rooms and
your planner and your horses and all, same as
you've always been accustomed to. But I
can't ask them to keep me, nor yet I wouldn't
ask them. Let alone that George is a young

man and wants looking after. You'll come
and see me sometimes when you're in London,
won't you, my dear ? ' she added.

Of course I will, if you insist upon living
in London,' said Hope ; and after a little more
conversation, and some shedding of tears on
both sides. Mills prepared to depart.

Hope wanted to give her ten pounds
as a small parting gift ; but this the old
woman would not hear of. ' No, child, no,'
she said ; ' keep your money and take care
of it; it's — it's always a useful thing, and
none of us knows how soon we may need ten
pounds.'

This oracular speech, and indeed the
woman's whole manner throughout the interview,
raised some suspicions in Hope's mind.
What if she should prove to be less rich than
she had supposed herself? It seemed impossible
that she should be poor ; yet if Mills had
meant anything at all she must have meant
that. Wealth had always been to Hope Lefroy
what health is to those who have never known
a day's illness ; it was a blessing for which

she was thankful in a general way, but which
she hardly appreciated at its full value, since
she was quite unable to imagine what life
would be like without it. She was not at all
alarmed by her old nurse's hints, only disturbed
and a little curious. She determined to
lose no time in finding out from her uncle
what her position was, and therefore made it
known that she would be present at luncheon
that day.

She did not notice a brief moment of embarrassment
which marked her entrance into
the dining-room. Never having been accustomed
to take either the head or the foot
of the table, she made at once for her usual
place, which happened to be on Mr. Lefroy's
right hand, thereby unconsciously earning the
approval of Lady Jane, whose horror of unpleasant
situations was equalled only by her
dislike for those who created them. But,
despite this happy commencement, the conversation
languished woefully. To be afflicted
is to be an affliction to one's neighbours, and
Hope's company would have been cheerfully

dispensed with by everyone present ; especially
by Mr. Lefroy, who guessed only too well
what had brought her among them, and foresaw
that a bad quarter of an hour was in store
for him.

His fears were confirmed when his niece
lingered after the others had left the room
and intercepted a futile attempt at escape on
his own part. 'Are you busy, Uncle Montague
? ' she asked. ' If you are not, I should
like to have a little talk with you.'

Mr. Lefroy admitted that he was not busy
at least, not very busy ; but gave it as his
opinion that a brisk walk in the fresh air was
a much better thing for people who had been
shut up ten days in the house than a dry talk
about business matters.

Perhaps I will take the walk afterwards
to counteract the effects of the talk,' Hope
replied. ' I won't keep you long. Uncle Montague
; I only wanted to ask you how much
money I shall have ? '

Oh, well, you know, one can't answer
questions like that all in a moment ; there

really is no hurry,' Mr. Lefroy was beginning ;
but Hope, who noticed the cloud that had
come over his good-humoured face, was not to
be put off in that way. 'You need not be
afraid of telling me the truth,' she said; 'I
don't expect it to be pleasant.'

Some confounded fool has been chattering
to you ! ' exclaimed Mr. Lefroy suspiciously.

Xo ; not a confounded fool ; only poor
old Mills. And she didn't chatter ; she merely
sighed. Please, let me hear the worst.'

Mr. Lefroy sighed almost as loudly as
Mills had done. 'Very well, then.' he said
desperately, ' let us get it over. It is the
worst — quite the worst that you can imagine.
Do you remember, on the morning of your
poor father's death, my mentioning to you
that the Bank of Central England had failed ? '

I remember perfectly well,' answered
Hope steadily'. ' He was a shareholder, I
suppose.'

Yes ; I am sorry to say that lie was.
Heaven only knows what can have tempted
him — however, there's no use in talking about

that. The iinliappy fact is that lie did hold
shares ; and of course the estate is liable.'

To a large amount ? '

It is impossible to say as yet,' Mr. Lefroy
began, and then paused. ""I think you would
rather that I spoke the plain truth,' he resumed
with somewhat of an effort ; ' I am
afraid that the claims made will swallow up
the entire estate — every penny of it.'

Hope gave a little gasp ; she had not anticipated
such a catastrophe as this. ' Will
Helston have to be sold ? ' she asked in a low
voice.

Helston ? Oh, no ; they can't touch the
entailed property ; and if they could, that
wouldn't affect you, my dear. But it seems
certain no^\^ that the whole of your fortune
will be lost. It's a bad business,' he added,
a dreadfully bad business, and I believe it
would have killed your poor father if he could
have foreseen it. No doubt, indeed, that was
what killed him.'

'Oh! — do you think so?' exclaimed
Hope.

'Well, yes — the shock, you know. Butin
any case eve could not have hoped to keep
him with us much longer ; he told me sometime
ao'o that the doctors had driven him his
death-warrant. However, what I was crois?
to say was that, bad as matters are, we must
try to make the best of them. After all,
when one looks the thing in the face, what
does it amount to? Why, only that, instead of
being an heiress, as you might have been,
you are in the same position as Alice and
Gertrude. Some day, no doubt, you will all
three marry ; and if I know anything of Lady
Jane, you will marry men who are able to
give you the comforts that you are accustomed
to. Until then your life won't be an
unhappy one, I hope. We can t make up to
you for the loss of your father ; but as far
as money goes — well, you know, we are not
badly off, and I don't see why you need feel
any difference. Everything will go on just
as before.'

You are very kind. Uncle Montague,' answered
Hope ; ' but it is not possible that things

should go on just as before. If I have no
money of my own, it seems to me that I ought
to try and make some, and not be a burden
upon you.'

A burden ! ' exclaimed her uncle indignantly
; ' what do you take us for ? Why, I
owe more to my brother Charles than you
could spend if you lived with me to the end
of your days and went in for every kind of
extravagance ! How many years do you suppose
I was at Southcote without paying a
shilling of rent ? Now, I'll tell you what it is,
Hope ; if you ever want to make a speech
which will vex and hurt me more than anything
else that you could say, you will repeat
the remark which you made just now. Please
to understand, once for all, that you lay yourself
under no sort of obligation to anybody
by living here as you have been accustomed
to live.'

I should not mind being under an obligation
to you. Uncle Montague,' answered Hope,
with a faint smile ; ' it isn't that.'

'What is it, then'

I am not sure that I can explain ; I must
have time to think. Anyhow, I will gladly
stay with you for the present, obligation or no
obligation.'

You will stay with us until your wedding-day,'
said Mr. Lefroy decisively. ' And now
let us behave like sensible people, and not
worry ourselves with crying over spilt milk.
Suppose we enter into an agreement never to
refer to this subject again ? '

Hope did not see her way to making any
such promise ; lout she was quite of her
uncle's mind as to the folly of crying over
spilt milk ; the more so as lamentation over the
loss of her fortune would have seemed to her
something like a reflection upon her father's
memory. Upon the whole, Mr. Lefroy was
very well satisfied with her reception of the
bad news, and confided to his vd^e that night
that Hope was a girl in a thousand.

There was no bother about making her
understand the state of the case ; she took it
in at once, and never so much as gave a groan.
The best thing that we can do for her now

is to find lier a suitable husband as soon as
we can.'

To which Lady Jane replied : ' That will
not be quite such an easy matter as it would
have been a week or two ago.'

CHAPTER IT.

A Friend IX Need.

The bread of charity must always taste bitter,
be the hand that bestows it never so generous,
and it did not take Hope long to decide that
the plan proposed by her uncle was one to
which she never could consent. She might,
and indeed must, accept his hospitality ; she
might even make Helston in some sense her
home ; but her pride, of which she had rather
more than was quite desirable, revolted against
the idea of pensioned luxury. The law that
bound her was the law to which all humanity
is subject. 'I have no money, and therefore
my first duty is to make some,' she said to
herself, as though that were the easiest tiling
in the world.

The next question was, how was a young
Vol. I. F

woman who had suddenly dropped from affluence
to pauperism to set about supporting
herself? — and the only answer that could be
made upon the spur of the moment was a
little disheartening. There seemed to be
nothing for it but to go out as a governess or
as companion to an old lady, for neither of
which employments could Hope feel that she
had the smallest natural aptitude. But in the
course of a few days her uncle made a communication
to her which simplified matters
greatly and caused her heart to leap with joy.

Oh, by-the-way, Hope,' he said, joining
her one morning after breakfast in the garden,
where she was pacing to and fro in grave
meditation, ' I want to tell you that I exaggerated
a little in saying that your poor
father's estate would yield absolutely nothing.
We have rescued a trifle. It is only a trifle ;
but such as it is I have invested it for sou
as your trustee, and it will bring you in about
250/. a year.'

The excellent man was telling a falsehood
which anyone with the least knowledge of

business matters must have detected at once.
It was impossible that any investment of the
late Mr. Lefroy's personal property could have
been made so soon ; nor was there a chance
of ever so small a portion thereof being saved
from the wreck ; but he had confidence in
his niece's inexperience ; and his confidence
was not misplaced, for neither then nor at
any subsequent time did Hope suspect that
the six thousand pounds invested in her name
had come out of the pocket of her guardian
and trustee. He had argued with himself that
it would be necessary to make lier an allowance
of some kind, and that if she could be led to
suppose that the said allowance was hers of
right, much needless and painful discussion
would be avoided. Had he foreseen in what
light this unexpected windfall would be regarded
by its recipient, it is probable that he
would have stayed his hand ; but where is
the man wise enough to divine the queer
notions that will get into girls' minds ?

Hope's notion, if a queer one, did not
appear so to her. Her course was now clear,

f2

and lie felt herself free to utilise the one
talent with which, as she believed, nature and
education lead endowed her — that of painting.
It must be said for her that lie was an
amateur artist of far more than ordinary proficiency,
and also that her expectations were
strictly moderate. She had learnt enough
to know how much remained for her to learn,
and she did not deceive herself into thinking
that she would be able to sell her pictures for
some tone to come. What she did think was
that, with the aid of her small fortune, she
could begin to study in serious earnest, and
after an hour or two of consideration her
plan assumed definite shape. Upon 250/. a
year one could hive. This she repeated to
herself several times with decision, because in
reality she was not quite certain of the fact.
The place of her abode must, of course, be
London ; and a most fortunate thing it was
that Mills' lodgings would afibrd her a shelter
to which nobody could take exception. As
regarded the course of study to be pursued,
slice meant to put herself in the hands of Mr.

Tristram, who, she knew, would befriend her
and give her the best advice in his power.

With that celebrated and eccentric man
her relations were already those of intimacy.
Her father, who had discovered Tristram's genius
long before it dawned upon the reluctant
critics, had always delighted in his society,
and would often run up to London for no
other purpose than to spend an hour or so in
his studio. Hope, as a child, used to take a
mute part in their conversations, understanding
very little of them, but gazing in fascination
at the gigantic figure of the artist as he
strode up and down the room, declaiming,
gesticulating, pouring torrents of scorn and
invective upon some person or persons unknown,
while her father, his hands folded
upon the knob of his stick and his chin upon
his hands, sat listening with a smile and every
now and then putting in a quiet word. One
day Tristram became aware that his audience
consisted not only of an elderly gentleman but
also of a girl whose face was as nearly as
possible perfect in outline, and whose wide-open

eyes expressed all sorts of things, hidden
perhaps from the world at large, but perceptible
to the artistic imagination. He came to
a halt before her and stood with his hands in
his pockets staring fixedly at her for a minute
or two. Then in his abrupt way he said :
Miss Lefroy, I am going to paint your
picture.'

Nobody making any objection, the picture
was painted, and exhibited in the Eoyal
Academy of the following year, where it
attracted a good deal of notice. It could
hardly be called a portrait : Tristram was nota
portrait-painter. In the catalogue it was
described as ' Hope : portrait of Miss Lefroy ; '
and certainly nine-tenths of those who admired
it saw in it rather a representation of the
treasure which Alexander the Great is said to
have reserved for himself after dividing his
possessions among his friends, than of Miss
Lefroy, whoever she might be. But if nota
portrait, it was at least a likeness and an
admirable one ; and the father of the model
was considerably taken aback and a little

annoyed when, on inquiring the price of the
work, he was curtly informed that it was not
for sale. ' I mean to keep it,' the artist said.
I shall never paint anything better ; and,
besides, I have taken a fancy to your daughter's
face ; it cheers me up when I have a fit
of the blues.'

This was, perhaps, a somewhat cool proceeding
; but Tristram was not a man who
troubled himself to consider whether his proceedings
were cool or not, and those who
valued his friendship had to accept him ashe
was. Hope, liking the man, liked his
peculiarities, and did not dream of being
offended with him because he sometimes
spoke roughly to her, or because he smiled
at the compositions which she ventured to
submit to his notice. His smile, to be sure,
was not a discouraging one. Without being
loud in his praises, he admitted that she was
making progress and that her drawing was
fairly correct. ' Ah, Miss Hope,' he said one
day, ' what a pity it is that you will never
have to work for your living ! ' The phrase

recurred to lier memory now that she was
resolved to work for her Having.

Thus, by degrees, and by the pressure of
other thoughts, Hope's great sorrow became
more bearable to her ; but although her intentions
with regard to the future were now
fixed, she took very good care to say nothing
about them as yet to anybody. There would
be very little use in her moving to London
before the autumn, and none whatsoever in
divulging too soon a scheme which was certain
to provoke opposition. So she kept her own
counsel, submitting herself outwardly to the
wishes of her uncle and aunt, who did all that
they could to render the change in her position
as little evident to her as possible. They
had every wish to be considerate, and when,,
in the month of August, they moved to South -
cote for a few weeks, and she begged to be
left behind at Helston, they yielded to her
entreaties, although Lady Jane did not quite
like it. It may be that they would have been
less amenable, had they not wanted to ask a
few friends down to stay, and felt that the

presence of the orphan m her black crape
might be rather a restraint upon the cheerfulness
of the younger members of the family.

That period of solitude and liberty Hope
enjoyed so much that she more than once
reproached herself for her good spirits. She
worked at her painting with a new and professional
interest, she rose early and wandered
out across the park and along the grassy
shooting-drives that intersected the woods ; in
the evening she usually went out for a ride,
attended by the same sober old groom who
had first taught her to sit upon her pony. She
was free to come and go as she pleased ; she
had no one's convenience to consult but her
own, and her own company did not weary her.
But the return of ' the family,' as the servants
had already taken to calling the new inmates
of Helston Abbey, had been announced for
the middle of September, and punctually on
the appointed day they arrived, bringing with
them two or three of the guests whom they
had been entertaining at Southcote. ' Only
quite intimate friends, almost relations in fact,'

Lady Jane whispered, after she had embraced
her niece. ' Of course we would not ask
anyone else just now : but your uncle won't
go out shooting all by himself, and it is so bad
for him to have no exercise.'

Hope did not feel that the case was one
which called for apologies. Being human, she
could not quite enjoy seeing others in possession
of what had until lately been to all intents
and purposes hers ; but the addition of a few
somewhat taciturn sportsmen to the party
was no increase of her trial. Only one of
them had the good fortune to interest her ;
and perhaps she would not have noticed him,
had she not remembered to have seen his face
at the one and only ball which she had
attended, or was now likely to attend, in
London. He was a tall, thin man, with sunburnt
face and hands and a long moustache ;
his frame was rather loosely put together, but
he had the appearance of muscular strength
and good condition ; his voice was a pleasant
one, notwithstanding a drawling intonation,
which, combined with his habit of keeping his

eyes half closed, conveyed an impression of
constitutional indolence ; and his face, Hope
thought, vers pleasant, too, though certainly
not handsome. She mentally set him down as
middle-aged, and did not consider the definition
an incorrect one when she heard that he
was just six-and-thirty. The girls, of whom
she inquired his name, told her that he was
Dick Herbert, ' a sort of cousin of Mamma's,'
and added that he was great fun ; but when
asked in what way his funniness displayed
itself, could only repeat their assertion, without
supporting it by instances.

Everybody knows him and everybody
likes him,' they declared. ' He has lots of
money, and he has never married and says
he never will, which, of course, makes him
the more interesting. He always does just
as he likes, and says whatever comes into his
head.'

This description, as Hope pointed out,
seemed to apply to a person more funny than
agreeable, but her cousins assured her that
Dick was both. ' He is a dear old thing,' they

said. Alas 1 it is thus that maidens of twenty
or under will speak of a man in the prime of
life, and the truth is that Mr. Herbert was
getting a little grey about the temples.

One evening after dinner, when the men
came into the drawing-room, he steered
straight for the sofa upon which Hope was
sitting, and dropped down beside her. She
thought he was going to say something, but
apparently he had no such intention, and after
he had quietly contemplated her from beneath
his eyelashes for several minutes, she broke
the silence by remarking : ' You find Helston
rather a dull place, I am afraid ? '

I ? Oh, no ; the people are a little bit dull,
some of them ; but I shouldn't call the place
so. Besides, I can go away when I've had
enough of it. I always do go away as soon
as I begin to get bored anywhere.'

And do you generally stay until then ? '
inquired Hope, with a smile.

No, because, as a rule, I have a pretty
good lot of engagements from about this time
of year onwards. I'm rather a good shot,

you see lie added, by way of explaining this
circumstance. He relapsed into silence for a
time, and then startled Hope a good deal by
resuming : ' I say, shall you go on Having here ? '

It would be natural that I should, would
it not ? ' she answered, not being ready-with
any reply to so unexpected a question.

He shook his head. ' Not to you ; some
people wouldn't mind, of course. Still,' he
concluded pensively, ' I don't see how you can
very Avell do anything else.'

He so evidently did not mean to be impertinent
that Hope could not feel affronted.
She took a long look at his face, which was
an honest, friendly sort of face, and a strong
inclination to divulge her project to him took
possession of her. It was not that she wanted
his advice, for her resolution was taken, but
even the most independent of mortals like to
be backed up sometimes, and it struck lier
that Mr. Herbert would probably back lier
up in this instance. She could not, however,
make a confidant of a man whom she scarcely
knew, but she thought that perhaps she would

do SO at some future time if they became
better acquainted.

They did become better acquainted, and
their acquaintance ripened with singular rapidity.
Somehow or other, Hope constantly
found herself left in his company, and though
he did not talk much, his manner encouraged
her to talk a good deal, while his unceremonious
ways set her at her ease. He treated
her, she thought, much as a good-natured
elder brother might have done ; she was a
thousand miles from suspecting that Lady
Jane was designedly throwing her at the
head of one of the most desirable bachelors
in England, or from perceiving the various
stratagems by which that well-meaning woman
was trying to effect her purpose. Mr. Herbert,
who understood it all perfectly well, understood
the girl's innocence also ; otherwise it is
probable that his engagements would have
called him away before he had been three
days at Helston.

A person who is disposed towards making
confessions is seldom thwarted through lack

of opportunity. It happened one afternoon
that Mr. Herbert, who tired of partridge-shooting
more easily than his host, was
wending his way homewards with his gun
under his arm, when he encountered Mss
Lefroy at some distance from the house ; and
she, seeing no reason why she should not turn
and walk with him, consulted her own wishes
in the matter. They conversed for some time
upon various unimportant topics — or rather,
Hope conversed while her companion listened
then, a propos of nothing at all, he said :

Do you know. Miss Lefroy, I feel rather
bothered about you ? '

In wdiat way ? ' Hope asked.

The outlook doesn't seem to me very
promising. How do you get on with Lady
Jane? Does she ever have tantrums? '

Xever, that I am aware of,' answered
Hope.

I expect she does, though, or her husband
wouldn't be always stroking her down. I
shouldn't wonder if she was rather an old cat
when she was rubbed the wrong way.'

Please remember that you are speaking
of my aunt,' said Hope.

Well, you didn't make her, though she is
your aunt ; and she is no blood-relation of
yours, after all. Upon my word, if I were
you, I think I should try to get out of this
before the wind changed.'

I think I shall,' said Hope quietly ;
though not exactly for that reason.' And
without further preface she unfolded the
scheme which she had planned out for her
future career.

Herbert did not interrupt her. The only
comment that he permitted himself, after she
had done, was : * There'll be a nice row when
you tell them ! '

I suppose so ; but I fancy that I shall be
able to survive that.'

Very likely ; you seem to have plenty of
pluck. But, to tell you the truth, I think you
will have to give up this idea after a bit. I
know something about an artist's life, because
I have a young protege who is going to set
the Thames on fire some fine day, and I hear

about it from him. He is up in London now,
studying. Of course that sort of Bohemian
existence is all very well for him, for his name
is Jacob Stiles — did you ever hear such a
name ! — and he had no father to speak of ;
but it would be a very different thing for you.
A woman can't get out of her own class.'

Yet you advised me just now to get out
of Helston ? '

'That's another matter. Of course marriage
is the only means of escape open to you.'

Thank you,' said Hope rather coldly ;
but I don't feel inclined to adopt that means

I suppose you are not of age yet ? ' observed
Herbert, after reflecting for a few
minutes.

Hope confessed that she was not.

So that if old Lefroy won't hear of your
going in for the painting business, you'll be
about done, won't you ? '

I shall try to get him to consent, at all
events,' replied Hope. ' You are not very
encouraging,' she added, in a rather injured
tone.

Vol. I. G

I don't mean to be. You'll have no end
of a fuss before you get your own way ; and,
besides, I don't much fancy the notion of your
living in London lodgings all by yourself.
Still, perhaps, as you say, it might be Avortli
a trial. Anything for liberty.'

Hope changed the subject and regretted
having introduced it. From a man of Mr.
Herbert's independent character rather less
conventional language might have been expected,
she thought, and he might at least
have displayed a little interest in what he had
been told. She did not give him credit for
being more interested than he chose to appear
; nor did she know that it was in order
to do her a service that he deserted her after
dinner that evening, and seated himself in a
distant corner beside Lady Jane.

That niece of yours,' he remarked casually
to his hostess, ' is an uncommonly clever girl.'

She is a clever girl, and a pretty girl, and
a good girl,' said Lady Jane emphatically.

Yes, all that. There are plenty of pretty
girls about, and I am quite sure that there

are a fair number of good ones ; but it isn't
every day that you meet a girl who can paint
like Miss Lefroy.'

H'm — well, no ; I daresay not,' agreed
Lady Jane, who was not very strong as an art-critic.


I was looking at some of her pictures the
other day,' Herbert went on, ' and I was very
much struck with them — I was really. It
seems a thousand pities that so much talent
shouldn't be utilised.'

Do you mean that she ought to sell her
pictures ? '

Why shouldn't she P It's an honourable
profession, and, under present circumstances,
I suppose the money would be welcome to
her. Of course she might not find purchasers
for the things that she has done already ; but
after a year or so of study I do believe she
would turn out an artist.'

There is no necessity for Hope to make
money ; but I am sure I shall be very glad tolet
her have lessons when we are in London,'
Lady Jane said, graciously.

o 2

Oh, I don't mean that sort of thing ; you
can't learn an art in that way. To do any
good, you must go in for the thing thoroughly
live in London, you know, and give up
society and work hard. I was talking to her
about it to-day. If only there were some
respectable person whom she could board
with — however, 1 suppose it couldn't be
managed.'

Eeally,' said Lady Jane, 'I don't quite see
how it could.'

No — oh, no ; it was only a dream of mine.'

He said nothing more for a while ; but
when Lady Jane was beginning : ' I look upon
dear Hope quite as one of my own daughters

now ' he interrupted her with : ' If ever I

marry, which isn't a very likely event to come
off, I shall marry a woman who can do something.
I could make a friend of a womanlike
that ; I should never be able to stand a
wife who had only a pretty face and nice
manners. Upon my word, I 'd as soon marry
a lady-doctor.'

My dear Dick,' returned Lady Jane affectionately,

' you will never marry at all ; and
to be quite candid, I shouldn't care to see
any girl whom I was fond of married to you.
You are too fastidious and fanciful.'

This she said to show her dear Dick how
guiltless she was of any designs upon him ;
but that nio'ht she remarked to her husband,
with a certain quiet triumph : ' Montague,
I am going to astonish you.'

I am sorry to hear it,' said Mr. Lefroy,
apprehensively.

You need not be sorry ; it is nothing
unpleasant, only something very surprising.
I have discovered that Dick Herbert has
fallen over head and ears in love with Hope.'

Oh,' said LIr. Lefroy, ' I could have told
you that some days ago ; but falling a little
bit in love isn't quite the same thing as marrying.
Added to which, it don't follow that
she is in love with him. You had better prepare
yourself for a possible disappointment.'

I am always prepared for disappointment,'
Lady Jane declared ; ' but if I know
anything of the ways of girls, Hope will not

refuse Dick. My only fear is that lie will
take a long time making up his mind to
propose, and perhaps will never do it at all.'

He certainly did not do it before his departure,
which took place two days later ;
but at the last moment he took occasion to
whisper to Hope : ' I think I've helped you a
tiny bit. Don't broach the great plan for a
day or two, and mind you are extra civil to
your aunt. She is capable of taking your
side if you keep in with her.'

THE DOCTOR Intervenes.

Come ! ' said ^h\ Lefroy, persuasively. ' I
think we might arrive at a compromise if we
tried. You say that your life is your own to
dispose of, and that you wish to devote it to
the service of Art. As a fact, your life is not
altogether at your own disposal just yet ; but
we will waive that. Let it be agreed that
henceforth the chief aim and object of your
existence is to be the painting and selling of
pictures. So be it, and I shall be delighted
to help you in any possible way ; only allowing
you to live all by yourself in London
lodgings is not a possible way.'

It was on a misty October day that Mr.
Lefroy, in the course of an interview ^vith his
niece, thus delivered himself. He was sitting
in his study, which had once been his brother's

study, and was still full of his brother's books
and odds and ends. He was sorry to be
obliged to receive Hope there ; but what
could he do ? He must have a den of some
kind and he could not shut the room up.
Nevertheless, the influence of the place caused
him to listen very patiently to what the girl
had to say, and prevented him from meeting
her request with a blunt refusal.

You yourself must see,' he continued,
that it would never do for us to turn you
adrift like a friendless orphan ; but you can
have the best masters and attend classes, or
Schools of Art, or anything that you like,
while we are in town ; that is to say, from
early in March till the middle or end of July.
Have you any objection to make to that
proposal ? '

Only that it would altogether defeat my
object,' answered Hope, smiling. ' I want to
be a professional artist, not an amateur ; and
I want something else, too, but I am afraid
you won't like my saying so. Uncle Montague
^I want to be independent.'

My dear child, you might as well say
that you want to be Queen of Great Britain
and Ireland, Empress of India, and Defender
of the Faith. Xot that you would be independent
then. Great as the charms of independence
are, very few of us — certainly very few
3^oung ladies — are permitted to enjoy them.
Let us take comfort from the thought that
perhaps it wouldn't be good for us if vre were.'

I should not wish to be independent if
Papa were living, or if I were your daughter,'
Hope said. ' I think you understand what I
mean.'

I decline to understand. My position
towards you is that of a father ; I regard you
as being, for all practical purposes, one of
my daughters, and I can only say to you, as
I should to Alice or Gertrude in a similar
case, that your demand is outrageous.'

That is hardly fair. Uncle Montague,' returned
Hope, her colour rising slightly. 'I
did not expect you to be pleased at my
wishing to leave Helston ; I know it must
seem ungrateful, though I am not really

ungrateful ; but I can't see that I am asking
for anything outrageous.'

Very well, I withdraw " outrageous."
Nowadays I find that I can never open my
lips in the House without being called upon
to withdraw something ; so that the sensation
is not new to me. I will substitute
"amazing." You can't object to " amazing" ;
it is a term which may be applied to the
noblest forms of ambition. My dear Hope,
your ambition may be a noble one and a
creditable one — far be it from me to assert
the contrary ! — but it has the fatal defect of
being impracticable. Girls of your age can't
go off and set up house by themselves ; that
sort of thing isn't done.'

Yet, if I had been an heiress, it might
have been done.'

'Eeally, I don't think so. You Avould
have been my ward, in any case, until you
were of age, and I could hardly have consented
to your living apart from us. However,
we need not consider what might have
been. Come, Hope ; give up this extravagant

project — well, well, I withdraw '* extravagant,"
the project can go without an adjective,
since it is to be thrown overboard —
give up thinking about it, and, as I said
before, I'll do the best I can for you. I'll
speak to your aunt.'

Couldn't we speak to her now, Uncle
Montague ? '

Heaven forbid ! Do you wish to see
Lady Jane stretched upon the floor in a fit ?
What I meant was that I would speak to her
about your takuig lessons in London.'

But Hope, who had been tentatively sounding
her aunt for some time past, and had been
surprised at the amicable spirit in which her
hints had been taken, was less apprehensive
than Mr. Lefroy ; and at that moment, as
luck would have it. Lady Jane herself walked
into the room, bringing with her some letters
as to which she wished to consult her
husband. Hope at once opened the attack
all along the hue, Without any preliminary
skirmishing.

'Aunt Jane, do you see any harm in my

going up to London to study painting? I
should live with Mills, who Avould take the
greatest possible care of me, and I know
Mr. Tristram would put me in the way of
learning what people who adopt Art as a profession
on!2^ht to learn. I must do something,
and I may learn to be an artist ; I feel that I
shall never learn to be anything else.'

Mr. Lefroy closed his ej^es and waited for
the storm to burst. He opened them again
to their fullest extent at the first sound of this
wife's voice and fixed them upon her face,
which, to his profound astonishment, was
wreathed in smiles.

Lady Jane was shaking her head gently.
My dear child,' said she, ' you are far too
sensible to have ever imagined that such a
thing as this could be possible, and you need
not tell me who put it into your head. It is
Dick Herbert all over. Dick is a dear, good
fellow ; but you should beware of taking him
too literally. He has defied conventionality
all his life, and of course there is no reason
liv he shouldn't, if he chooses ; but it is too

bad of liii to have given you the idea that
you could do the same. However, he has
most likely forgotten all about it by this
time.'

It was not Mr. Herbert's idea, it was my
own,' replied Hope ; ' and it is quite the same
ihincr to me whether he remembers or fortress
it. ^Yhy should you say that I am defying
conventionality? It is only as if I were
going to school ; and you would not mind
my doing that if I were a year or two
younger. Oh, Aunt Jane,' she continued,
laying her hand upon her aunt's arm and
speaking with a little quiver in her voice,
please let me go ! I can't stay here. You
are all very kind ; but — but — oh, don't you
see that I caiit stay ? '

Lady Jane did not see it at all, and did
not like the tone that her niece was taking
up. ' My dear,' she answered, drawing away
her arm, while the smile faded from her face,
you really must try to be more reasonable.
Ask me for something that I can give you
and I shall be only too glad to make you

happy ; but you can't expect me to countenance
this extravagant scheme.'

We don't withdraw " extravagant " this
time,' murmured Mr. Lefroy ; but his interruption
was not heeded. Hope went on
pleading, at first humbly, then passionately,
then tearfully ; but Lady Jane kept her temper
and maintained her authority, and the
end of it was that her niece had to Withdraw
from the held, vanquished.

The girl's disappointment Alas very bitter.
She had set her heart upon getting her own
way, and experience had not taught her that
those who get their own way in this world do
so more commonly by circuitous than by direct
means. The worst of it was that, upon reflection,
she could not help seeing how much
more plausible her aunt's case was than her
own. She was to be allowed to take lessons
during five months of the year, if she was so
minded ; all that was denied to her was independence
— and, as a matter of abstract theory,
a girl of nineteen certainly should not wish to
be independent. * I must wait until I am

twenty-one, that is all,' she said to herself, and
the prospect was not a smiling one. To go on
living as a stranger in her old home — how
could she endure it ? A hundred little daily
rubs and worries, which, for being quite inevitable
in her position, were not the less galling,
recurred to her mind, and she could no longer
make light of them. She had nothing to set
against them now, nothing to look forward to,
for who can look two whole years ahead ?
Hope's disposition was naturally sweet and
sanguine ; she was determined not to sulk
because she had been thwarted, and she tried
to go about with as cheerful a face as usual.
But in private she brooded and fretted until
at last she made herself so ill that the doctor
had to be called in.

The doctor was a cheery, good-humoured
little man who had known bliss Lefroy from
the day of her birth. A very few questions
and answers sufficed to show him what was
the matter, and on being led into the library
by Lady Jane, he asked whether he might
be permitted to suggest a moral prescription.

Please suggest anything that you like
answered Lady Jane, resignedly. ' I know
what you are going to say : the poor girl is
not happy. But how can I help it ? '

'Oh,' said the doctor'! think you can
help it. Do you know, Lady Jane, I was once
summoned to attend a little boy in a humble
rank of life who was consumed with anxiety
to go to sea. He was not ht for it ; he hadn't
the constitution for it, and he had never been
accustomed to being cuffed. He was the only
son of his parents, who naturally couldn't
endure the thought of his being flogged with
a rope's end and possibly drowned. They
reasoned with him, they scolded him, I am
not sure that they didn't even give him a
gentle whipping ; but it was all no good. The
boy literally pined away, and at last they got
frightened and sent for me. I had a o-ood
deal of difficulty in prevailing upon tJiem tolet
him do as he wished, but I succeeded in
the end, and when a year was up he returned
from his first and last voyage, radically cured.
He is now a respectable carpenter in a good

way of business, and when he takes his wife
and family for a day's hoHday he goes anywhere
rather than to the seaside.'

'That is all very well,' said Lady Jane,
but suppose he had liked a seafaring life ? '

In that case I presume that he would
have made a good sailor; and there are worse
people than good sailors in this world. I am
not competent to give an opinion as to whether
Miss Hope will ever become an artist or not,
but I don't hesitate to say that there is nothing
like a personal trial of the realities of life for
dispelling visions and making young ladies and
carpenters' apprentices contented with their
respective lots.'

Lady Jane stroked her chin with her eyeglasses.
' Perhaps,' she said meditatively,
there may be something in that. For my
own part, all I ^\ish is to do what is right, and
if we do decide to follow your advice, I shall
feel easier about asking do^^m a few friends
whom Mr. Lefroy wishes to have here for the
covert-shooting and whom we really ought to
ask. While clear Hope is in the house I quite

Vol. I. H

dread inviting anybody ; because, although
she says nothing, I can see that it is painful to
her. On the other hand, if we send lier away
people are sure to say that we want to get rid
of her. Still, if you, as her medical attendant,
are quite convinced that she ought to go to
London '

I have not a doubt of it,' replied the
doctor, with a perfectly grave face and a
twinkle in the corner of his eye. ' It is true
that your niece is at present free from organic
disease, but I daresay you are aware that in
every human body there is a predisposition
towards one form of ailment or another, and
Miss Hope's low, nervous condition is especially
favourable to the development of — er —
active mischief. In short, if she is vexed
or crossed, I will not be answerable for the
consequences.'

That,' observed Lady Jane with a sigh of
resignation, ' is conclusive. Health should bethe
first consideration, and since you order
Hope to London, I must not venture to disobey
you.'

Thus Hope obtained lier freecLjin alter all ;
not because she had asked for it, or because it
was good for her, or because anybody really
thought it desirable ; but because young
Lord Middlcborough had paid a good deal
of attention to Alice during the past season ;
because Lord ^iddleborough liked pheasant-shooting
; because it was impossible to ask
him to Helston without inviting a party to
meet him ; and, finally, because ' the doctor
ordered it ' is, or ought to be, a sufficient
answer to any ill-natured persons who might
accuse a fond aunt of turnings her niece out
of doors. Let us hasten to add, in justice to
Lady Jane, that she was quite unconscious of
this string of motives ; and indeed, if we once
l)egin prying either into our own or into other
people's motives, we are likely to waste much
time and gain little satisfaction. Hope did
nothing of the kind. She was too much
pleased with the result to care whether its
causes were simple or complex, and the very
same evening she wrote to liars to ask for the
accommodation that she rebuked.

By return of post Mills expressed in glowing
language her pride at having been selected
to take charge of her young mistress, her
dehcfht at the thought of the meeting; which
was now so near, and her fears lest a first floor
in Henrietta Street, Cavendish Square, should
seem terribly restricted in point of size and
mean in point of furniture by comparison with
the space and magnificence of Helston Abbey.
She further intimated her surprise that the
family should have decided to send Miss Hope
to lodgings, seeing that the house in Eaton
Square was standing empty, and that a few
servants could very well have been spared ' to
make you comfortable, the same as your poor,
dear Papa would have wished.' She added,
however, that it was not for her to complain
of the arrangement that had been made. ' And
if your own flesh and blood don't know your
value, my dear, your old nurse does. So
please tell her ladyship, with my respectful
duty, that you will be took as much care of
here as if you was at home.'

Evidently Mills was one of those ill conditioned

persons, mentioned by Lady Jane,
who would be sure to accuse Hope's relations
of wishing to get rid of her. It did not,
therefore, seem advisable to show her ladyship
the whole of hills' letter, although the above
message was duly delivered and graciously
received.

Lady Jane, indeed, appeared determined to
be gracious. During the last week of her
stay at Helston, Hope was troubled with no
more remonstrances, and only had to listen to
a good many homilies touching the conduct
which it would behove her to adopt in London.
She might, of course, call upon such of her
friends as happened to be in town ; but it
would be better that she should not do so too
frequently, and on no account whatever was
she to form fresh acquaintances. It was
taken for granted that her absence would
only be temporary and that she would be
back before the end of the year, which impression
she wisely did not attempt to correct.
I will certainly be with you at Christmas,' she
said, not adding that she proposed to allow

herself no more tlmn a fortnight's holiday at
that time.

Nevertheless, she was unable to avoid a
dispute with her uncle about money, her
intention being to live upon the 250/. a year
provided for her, which Mr. Lefroy declared
to be preposterous and impossible. Her
knowledge of the subject was so limited that
she was easily put to silence, and in the end
had to accept, with a mental reservation, the
additional sum stated to be absolutely necessary
for her support during the next three
months.

I wish there was no such thing as money
in the world ! ' she exclaimed impatiently at
last ; and perhaps there was some truth in
the remark made by Mr. Lefroy to his wife,
as they stood watching the carriage which
bore Hope away to the station :

My dear, I am quite ready to admit that
you are generally right, while I am generally
wrong ; but to all rules there are exceptions
and I can't help thinking that you have made
a little mistake in allowing that 2^irl to abet her

C o O

head up. I shouldn't be surprised if she
broke clean away from you, after this.'

But Lady Jane said : ' Montague, you do
not understand girls. She will come back ina
very different frame of mind, and before this
time next year she will be married to Dick
Herbert.'

'Will she indeed? When that event
comes off I shall be more than ever convinced
that you are a very superior woman.'

I hope you will. In the meantime be
thankful that you can now ask as many menas
you wish down to shoot your pheasants.

Whereupon Mr. Lefroy, who knew very
well that the men who would be asked to
shoot his pheasants would not be men of
his choosing, smiled, and returned to his
study.

CHAPTEE VI.

TnEEE are more quiet houses in London than
is, perhaps, generally supposed ; and probably
there would be more still if the majority of
people did not secretly enjoy the din of which
they so often complain. Such houses must,
however, of course, be situated in a cul-de-sac^
and this is apt to make them as dreary to
those who like looking out of the window as
they are delightful to persons of a studious
turn or nervous temperament. The noise of
the traffic comes to them from afar in a
subdued, continuous roar, like the breaking
of the sea upon a shingly beach ; organ-grinders
and costermongers shun them ; often
they have gardens attached to them — somewhat
grimy ones, it is true, still gardens ; and

the owner of one of these is to be seen by his
neighbours on most summer evenings, pacing
up and down, his pipe in his mouth, his soft
felt hat on the back of his head, and his
hands in the pockets of his shabby shooting-coat,
until the darkness hides him.

The neighbours, peering inquisitively down
at this tall, solitary figure, are wont to wonder
what he is thinking about, and no doubt their
inability to satisfy their curiosity saves them
from disappointment ; for, like the rest of the
world, Wilfred Tristram, Ea., frequently
thinks about nothing worth mentioning. Yet,
being, as he unquestionably is, a man of great
and original genius, it is only natural that he
should be an object of interest to those who
dwell around him. He is famous, he is odd,
and he is reported to be wealthy. His house,
which was built from his own designs about ten
years ago, and which stands in a short street
not far from Maitland Gate, is as original as its
master and by no means as shabby as his coat .
Constructed by an artist for an artist, it would
be unlit for any other occupant, and unless

Tristram leaves it to an artist at this death it
will have to be pulled down. It possesses an
entrance-hall of noble dimensions, a vast and
admirably lighted studio, a good sized diningroom,
a small smoking-room, and no drawing-room
at all. There is said to be accommodation
for one or two visitors upstairs ; but as
Tristram never has a visitor to stay with him
this is space thrown away.

Friends, however, he has, and plenty of
them. It is probably for their sake that he
keeps an excellent cook, he himself being
utterly indifferent as to what he eats and
drinks. His dinner-parties, which occur on
an average twice a week during the season,
and to which only men are invited, are popular.
There is no formality about them ; a
large proportion of those who attend them
have achieved distinction in some way ; they
are enlivened by a good deal of merriment,
and the company seldom separates until the
night is far advanced. The host, when in the
humour, can be as gay as the youngest of his
guests and will even indulge in a little horseplay

upon occasion ; but it is doubtful whether
he does not prefer his own society to that of
anybody else. There are men who, by nature,
or by the force of circumstances, are doomed
to be always alone, and such men are probably
never more alone than when they are surrounded
by companions. Tristram's history —
or, if not his history, some approximate version
of it which did as well — was known to his
friends, and was considered by them to explain
some of his peculiarities. Many years back,
his wife, to whom he was said to have been
passionately attached, had left him for the sake
of a good-looking young fool, by whom she,
in her turn, had been speedily deserted ; and
this was held to account for Tristram's dislike
of women and for the roughness of his manner
towards them, as to which many anecdotes
were current.

If you want to see my pictures,' he said
once, knitting his shaggy brows and glaring at
a great lady who had sailed into his studio,
'you can go to the private view at the Academy
; if you want to buy them, you can communicate

with me by letter ; but if you only
want to talk, I must ask you to repeat your
visit some day Avhen there is no light and
when I can't work.'

Yet there were a few ladies — the heroine of
this story, amongst others — whom he did not
hate. He admitted that good women, though
rare, were to be met with occasionally ; goodmen
he believed to be, upon the whole (and if
you did not fix your standard too high), more
common than bad ones. What he could not
and would not admit was the existence of a
single capable art-critic. For many years the
critics had ignored or laughed at him ; they
had caused him an amount of sufferings which
would have astonished them very much had
they known of it, and he Alas quite unable to
forgive them now that they lauded him to the
skies. It was against the critics that Hope
used to hear him thundering in the daysAvhen
her father used to take her to Tristram's
studio. He Avould not even have their praise,
which he averred to be as stupid as their
blame. One of them, and one only, had had

the luck to win a good word from liiiii by
declaring that it was 'impossible to judge Mr.
Tristram's works by any of the received canons
of Art;

Here,' cried Tristram, when he read the
above passage, ' is a fellow who deserves to be
better employed ! He has found out that there
are forest trees which his little arms can't span
nor his puny strength cut down, and in a
moment of honesty he actually says so! There
is hope for that man.' And he incontinently
asked the critic to dinner, but was disappointed
with him on closer acquaintance, finding him
less humble than might have been anticipated.

Humility was a virtue which Tristram felt
to be more becoming in others than in himself.
He could not help knowing that he was a
great man ; it was a pity that he could not
help the littleness from which even great
men are not always exempt. Confident in his
own genius, but so sensitive to a breath of
censure that the reading of the newspapers
at certain seasons of the year was a daily
penance to him. lie made himself miserable

over attacks at which other artists would have
been content to smile, and it was always in
the power of the merest criticaster to goad
him into a fury.

However, not many people attached him
after his reputation was once made ; and it
must be said for him that his wrath, even
against the critics, did not go beyond words.
Had one of them been reduced to poverty and
come to bee: for his assistance, it is certain
that five pounds would have found their way
out of Tristram's pocket into his before he had
been narrating his woes for five minutes. Persons
in need of five pounds, and of greater as
well as less sums, frequently visited Tristram,
got what they wanted, and, as the lamentable
practice of such persons is, returned a second
and a third time. ' The greatest painter of the
century,' as they were too apt to denominate
him in their gratitude, opened his hands to
them without stint and without putting many
questions. He had known what it was to be
poor and hungry, and had no desire that others
should experience those sad sensations, if he

could help it. True, lie lead never begged —
would probably have starved rather than beg
but that was because he happened to respect
himself. He did not expect everybody
to possess self-respect or demand too much of
poor human nature. Half child, half philosopher,
he scattered abroad the money of
which he now had far more than he required,
only too glad that it should be picked up by
those who cared more about it than he did.

One November morning; he was in his
studio, dashing off a study for a picture which
afterwards became celebrated — the sale of the
Woman Empire by the Praetorian to Dictus
Uranus — when someone was announced whose
business was not of that simple kind which is
disposed of by the careless gift of a handful
of guineas. Tristram, who had not seen
Hope since her father's death, and who was
far from suspecting what had brought her to
his house, dropped his brushes and hurried
towards the door to meet her.

Ah, my dear bliss Hope ! ' he exclaimed,
taking both her hands, 'I don't know whether

I am most glad to see you or sad to see you
alone. Your dear father Alas a kind friend tome
— I think he was kind to everybody. Only
he was always so quiet in his ways that
perhaps we none of us knew how much we
cared for him till we heard that he was gone.'

Tristram was not a reticent man. It would
never have occurred to him to pass over his
old friend's death without allusion, or to
express his sympathy with the orphan by
silence and mournful looks, which is the more
common method. He may have been wanting
in delicacy ; but Hope, at any rate, did not
think so. His simple words went straight to
her heart and brought the tears into her
eyes.

You really knew him,' she said ; ' there
are so few people who did.'

So they sat down together and talked
about bygone days, and Hope was able to
speak more freely of her loss than she had
as yet spoken to anyone. ' But I ought
not to interrupt you like this, she said at
last.

You don't interrupt me,' answered Tristram,
' or rather I like being interrupted.
But I can 20 on with mv work if it will make
you more comfortable.' And he picked up
this pallet and brushes again. ' What are
you doing in London ? Are your uncle and
aunt up ? ' he asked presently.

Xo,' answered Hope, ' I am having by myself
— at least, I am living with an old nurse
of mine — and I called to-day to have a serious
consultation With you. You know that I have
lost all my money ? '

Yes, I heard. It made me very sorry.'

'You ought not to be sorry,' returned
Hope, smiling. ' Do you remember once saying
to me that it was a thousand pities that I
was not obliged to earn my own having ? '

Tristram stopped painting and looked at
her, drawdncr his brows together.

Hid I say that ? ' he asked.

Yes ; and the last time I saw you — at
that ball, you know — you told me that I
ought to be thankful for having a pursuit to
fall back upon.'

Vol. I. I

That I do remember ; and I stick to what
I said. Well?'

'Well, no-.y I have fallen back upon my
pursuit and I have to work for my living, and
I want you to advise me as to the best and
quickest way of doing so.'

When Tristram Alas annoyed or perplexed
he had a habit of combing his beard violently
with his long fingers. He began combing his
beard now. ' Am I to understand that you
are dependent upon your own exertions ? ' he
asked.

Not exactly that, because I have a small
income still. I should have thought it would
have been enough for me to live upon, but
they tell me it isn't ; and anyhow I should
prefer its being larger.'

But I heard that your uncle — that you
Avere to continue to live at Helston.'

Yes ; but I couldn't ! I know everybody
would say that it was " the proper arrangement,"
and I know everybody will be horrified
at my wanting to be an artist and lead
an independent life ; but you are not like

everybody. I thoiio'lit you would understand.'


Oh, I understand well enough,' answered
Tristram, who was walking about the room,
and was still causing himself much unnecessary
pain by dragging hairs out of his beard ;
'I understand as well as anybody what the
charms of freedom are ; but then, my dear
bliss Hope, I am a great big man and I have
always had to look after myself, while you
are a young lady who has been brought up in
cotton-wool.'

A woman may be an artist,' said Hope.

Oh, certainly ; there is Rosa Bonheur, and
there was Angelica Kaufmann.'

There hare also been plenty of others.
Please don't talk to me as if I were a silly
child. I don't aspire to be famous ; but surely
there is no great presumption in thinking that
I may learn to paint pictures which some
people will buy. Look at the rubbish that
they do buy ! '

Would you be content to paint rubbish ?
I grant you that rubbish sells more readily

i2

than anything else ; but even that popular
article requires to be signed by a well-known
name.'

Everything must have a beginning.'

Oh, excuse me ; there are many things
which had much better not be begun.' He
paused abruptly in his walk and planted himself
in front of his visitor, with his hand upon
his hips. ' Look here, Miss Hope,' said he ;
did you come to ask me for advice ? '

No,' answered Hope, boldly, ' I didn't ;
because my mind is made up. I came to ask
you for information and help.'

Come,' said Tristram, with a laugh, ' I
am glad you take up that line ; it reeves me
from responsibility. And now, if you will
promise not to tell anybody, I'll let you into
a secret : I believe that if I had been in
your place, I should have done exactly what
you are doing.'

Hope's face, which had grown rather
grave, lighted up with smiles. 'Oh, thank
you ! ' she exclaimed, gratefully.

Ah, but that doesn't alter the fact that

you are doing a foolish thing. Xow. how am
I to help you P Do you want me to introduce
you to the picture-dealers? '

Of course I don't ; how could you think
such a thing of me ? I want you to recommend
a course of study to me. I am utterly
ignorant about masters and schools and soon.
The only master I know of is old Mr.
Bluett, whom Papa used to have down to
Helston to give me lessons.'

'And who taught you long ago all that he
has it in him to teach.'

I daresay he did. Where ought I to go
now, then P '

Tristram took a few more turns without
replying, and then said suddenly : ' You had
better come here, I think.'

'Here?' repeated Hope, doubting whether
she had heard rightly.

Yes, I think so ; it isn't as if you were
quite a beginner. If you were, I should hesitate
to undertake you, for I have very Httle
patience and no experience as a teacher ; but,
as it is, I believe I can push you on more

rapidly than you could be pushed on in a
School of Art. No doubt you would learn
something there ; but the process is a slow
one, and tiny object is '

But, Mr. Tristram,' interrupted Hope,
I must not take up your time in that way.
It is very good and kind of you to think of it ;
but I could not accept so much.'

I never met such an obstinate young lady
as you are ; you won't accept anything from
anybody ! Do you suppose I am going to let
you interfere with my work, pray? What
you are to do is to watch me in the first
place, and to work in a corner by yourself
in the second. Every now and then I shall
take a look at you, and tell you where you are
going wrong. What I was saying when you
interrupted me was that my object is to be able
to let you know as soon as possible whether
there is any use in your persevering. Mind
you, it isn't worth your while to paint what
you call rubbish. You sacrifice a great deal
in taking up Art as a profession. You lose
sight of your friends, you drop out of society.

you are called eccentric, and you miss opportunities
Avhicli — which — in short, you leave
your own class. If you have any chance of
making a name for yourself, well and good.
But you must not pay such a long price
merely for the satisfaction of pocketing
twenty or thirty guineas occasionally.'

You forget the freedom,' remarked Hope,
smiling.

Oh, freedom I — that's a relative term.
After all, what do you Avant with freedom ? —
and who is really free to do as he likes ?
Certainly you are not. Why you can't even
come here to study under a grey-beard like
me, unless you bring some sort of an old
woman with you. I have an used housekeeper
somewhere about the establishment
who mio'ht do. Or could you o-et your excuse
to look after you ? '

I will ask her,' answered Hope, to whom
this aspect of the case had not yet presented
itself, and who began to realise the difficulties
of independent existence. ' But I am not sure
that she can spare the time.'

Mills, however, when informed of the service
required of her declared that all her time
was at her young mistress' disposal, and that
her first-floor lodgers must not expect to have
their landlady at their beck and call from
morning till night. It was bad enough, she
said, that they should be on the first floor at
all, while their betters were sent up to poky
little rooms over their heads ; but if they
began to give themselves airs, why, the
sooner they moved elsewhere the better.

As they had never given themselves airs
this was a little hard upon them ; but Mills
was not pleased with what she considered
Hope's escapade, and, being vexed at things
generally, had to find a scapegoat somewhere.

CHAPTER tithe

Opinions OF MRS. MILLS.

Injustice and misconception are rife in this
world, and very good people often judge
other good people with conspicuous lack of
charity. It is even pretended by some that
good people are more prone to err in this
way than bad ones ; but let that pass.
Certain it is that at this time the worthy
and faithful Mills formed an exceedingly low
opinion of ]vir. Montague Lefroy. Miss Hope,
poor dear, might think it a fine thing to try
and earn her own daily bread ; it was natural
that she should think so, bless her innocence I
But what would her poor papa have said if
he could have seen her tramping through the
streets in all weathers on her way to the
house of a common artist, who was not over
and above civil to her when she crop there,

and didn't seem to know his proper place at
all ! And as for that old uncle of hers, who
Alas living in what ought to have been her
home, and who should have known a great
deal better than to permit such goings-on.
Mills became so angry when she thought of
his behaviour that she was more than once
driven to exclaim ' Drat him ! ' aloud. However,
she only did this in the solitude of her
own room. Mills knew her place, if Mr.
Tristram did not know his. She mi<2flit have
her own notions of what was riodit as betwixt
relations, of what was due from the younger
branch of a family to the elder, likewise of
what was commonly decent ; but far be it
from her to utter them ! She was well aware
that it was not for her to make remarks about
her superiors, and that there might be no
mistake as to her submissive attitude, she
took care to say as much to Hope every
morning of her life.

But neither with her lips nor in her heart
did she murmur at the task imposed upon
her of spending many a weary hour in the

studio of the common artist above mentioned.
She did not like it ; she would have preferred
to be keeping an eye upon her servants at
home ; but on the other hand she was proud
of acting as ]\Iiss Hope's protector, and, having
an unfailing supply of socks and stockings to
darn, argued philosophically that she might
almost as well be darning them in one place
as in another.

Tristram, who was a good deal amused
by her determined silence and by the grim
impassiveness of her demeanour, found her,
one day, gazing at a picture which he had
just finished and asked her what lie thought
of it.

If you please, sir, I'm no judge.' the old
woman said.

That is a very poor reason to give for
not pronouncing a judgment. Come, let us
hear your opinion.'

Well, sir, if I'm to say what I think,'
replied Mis, who perhaps was not sorry to
say what she thought, ' I prefer Miss Hope's
pictures to yours.'

It would be a very good thing for Miss
Hope if half-a-dozen people whom I could
narae agreed with you and had the courage
to say so. Personally, I feel bound to give
myself the preference. I think, if join will
make a careful comparison, you will see that
I have a rather bolder style.'

Maybe you have, sir, but it's too splashy
for my taste,' responded Mills briefly.

Mrs. Mills,' said Tristram, ' you ought to
have been an art-critic. You have laid your
finger upon my chief defect, and I daresay it
will astonish you to hear that that is the very
things for which I am most admired. Let me
tell you, however, that there is no other artist
in England who could make such splashes
as those.'

In this he spoke the simple truth, and he
mio^ht have added that there was no artist in
England less fitted to instruct a beginner.
Tristram's method was his own, and could
hardly be reduced to any set of rules for the
guidance of others. Yet he took great pains
with his pupil, and though he could not

impart to her the secret of his marvellous
dexterity, of the assured sweep of his brush,
and of his rapidity of workmanship, he did
teach her something.

Correctness,' he told her, ' is all very
well, but it is not Art. Wliat you want to dois
to throw your soul into your vv'ork and
to force people to see with your eyes.
Unhappily that is not easy.'

Hope, who had never expected to find it
easy, was not discouraged by the very small
meed of praise which rewarded her exertions.
Tristram would stand with his hands behind
his back silently contemplating what she had
done, and when asked to point out faults,
would reply that there were none to speak of.
'You haven't got it yet, that's all,' he would
say, turning away. He did not explain what
he meant by ' it ; ' but Hope understood well
enough.

On one occasion she was privileged to
overhear an independent opinion of her performances.
As visitors often dropped in
during the day, and as Tristram did not think

it desirable that they should be aware of Miss
Lefroy's presence, he had made Hope set up
her easel in a small room adjoining the studio,
the door of which he usually slammed at the
first sound of approaching footsteps. One day,
however, he happened to push it to without
quite closing it, and thus Hope was enabled to
hear a voice (which, if she had known it,
belonged to a celebrated painter) expressing
unbounded admiration of 'The Sale of the
Woman Empire.' Tristram responded somewhat
gruffly — it has already been said that he
was a man wdioni it was difficult to praise to
his satisfaction — and after a time his friend,
desisting from eulogy, began to walk about the
studio, apparently examining one thing and
another.

This is fine, Tristram,' Hope heard him
say presently ; 'but it isn't altogether you
somehow. I never knew you work up your
details so elaborately before.'

Glad you like it,' replied Tristram ; ' it's
by a friend of mine, a rising young artist, and
you can buy it cheap, if you choose.'

'Eeally?' said the other, who was well-to-do,
and who sometimes purchased the works of
rising artists, sometimes also disposing of them
at a legitimate profit when the said artists had
]risen. ' What does he want for it ? '

Oh, fifty guineas now. Next year it may
])e a different story ; but we mustn't be too
greedy at starting.'

The stranger laughed. ' I don't think 111
buy it,' he said. ' If I might offer your young
friend a word of advice, it would be to make
the most he can of his own powers and not
try to imitate the inimitable. He has ruined
his picture by putting in those bold touches,
which he no doubt takes for a reproduction
of your style. I was almost taken in for a
moment, but a little closer inspection reveals
the sham. Don't let the poor young man
attempt that kind of thing again : it isn't to
be done. There is only one Tristram in the
world.'

'But there are a great many asses,' returned
the ungrateful Tristram. ' Every one
of those bold touches that you mention was

put in by this unworthy hand. Where are
you now, my good friend ? '

It appears to me that I am in the house
of a man who has been trying to pain oil
a fraud upon me,' replied the other good-humouredly.
' Isn't it rather doubtful morality
to get a young friend to paint a picture, touch
it up yourself, and then ask fifty guineas
for it ? '

That's right ; grumble now ! Why, man,
have you no sense of shame ? For that paltry
sum I offer you a work which you yourself
pronounced very fine so long as you thought
that it was by me. When you found that it
was neither by me nor by anybody else whom
you had ever heard of you began to sneer at
it ; and finally, when you are told that I added
a stroke to it here and there, you talk about
doubtful morality ! Good Lord ! What a
world of ignorance and humbug we live in !
Blindfold a man, and it is as much as he can
do to distinguish between port and claret ;
give him a bottle of your best Chateau Margaux
after dinner, and he will go into ecstasies

over it — only if you tell him it is Mediocre
will call it sour. Doubtful morality indeed !
And what sort of morality do you call it, pray,
to praise what you don't really like and run
down what you are afraid to own that you
admire ? Of all kinds of dishonesty, I do
think dishonest criticism is the most contemptible,
because it is so perfectly safe.
Hang me if I believe that such a thing as
an honest critic exists I '

He was still fuming after his friend had
gone away and when Hope, emerging from
her ambush, confessed that she had been
playing the eavesdropper.

Well,' said he, ' I am not sorry that you
should have heard what you did. It will show
you what Art is as a profession, and the dogs
life that we are made to lead sometimes for
years. By fools too ; that's the worst of it.
The man who has just gone away does at
least know something about his trade, and if
he can be so Winded by prejudice as to talk
the nonsense that he did a few minutes aero
what can j-ou expect from a fellow who only

Vol. I. K

writes for the newspapers and probably could
not paint a cow that anybody would know
from a pig, except by the horns ? '

But he did think the picture good at
first,' observed Hope, alluding to the artist,
not to the critic.

Did he ? Goodness knows what lie
thought ; evidently he himself didn't. He
said it was " line." It isn't line ; lie could
hardly have said anything more absurd. And
he couldn't recognise my touch either when
he saw it. Ah, well ! in future, when I want
a candid judgment on my work, I shall apply'
to Mrs. Mills. Yours is an uncorrupted mind,
Mrs. Mills ; you don't deceive either yourself
or others.'

I trust not, sir,' replied Mills. ' And, if
you please. Miss Hope, it's past one o'clock.'

Hope, as she walked away, was by no means
so displeased with her unknown critic as Tristram
had been. Secretly she was inclined to
agree with him that the picture had been spoilt
by those bold touches which she had not added
to it. Tristram had spoken of fifty guineas, too,

and had said that next year the price might be
higher. That sounded promising. She ]had
not altogether realised the meaning of his
friend's high, and she was already beginning
to realise the value of fifty guineas. That is
a lesson quickly learnt by such as attempt to
live upon 250/. a year, and Hope was resolved
that her annual expenditure should not exceed
that modest figure. She had gone into the
matter in a thoroughly businesslike spirit, and
after setting aside fifty pounds a year for dress
(for she could not conceive that any human
being could be decently clothed upon less) had
found that her rent and household bills averaged
four pounds a week. Fifty-two multiplied
by four gave two hundred and eight, oran
annual deficit of eight pounds, which was
a pity ; but by spending a few weeks at Helston
during the summer some further retrenchment
Avould doubtless be achieved. Obviously,
however, the budget could not be framed so
as to include any estimate for cab-hire ; and
til us Miss Lefroy, accompanied by Mills, had
to walk across Hyde Park twice every day.

Hyde Park on a damp November afternoon
is not the gayest place in the world, nor are
its footpaths always found pleasant walking
by those foolish pedestrians who will insist
upon wearing patent-leather boots in London,
no matter Avhat the season of the year maybe.
But Avhen one has the credit of one's
battalion to keep up in the matter of dress
one must not mind small discomforts, and tha
dapper young gentleman who stepped out of
the mist to meet Hope and her protectress as
they hurried homewards, had turned up his
trousers and was picking his Avay along as
cheerfully as could be expected under the
muddy circumstances. But when he recognised
the figure in deep mourning before him
his cheerfulness increased into joy; he pitched
away this cigarette, took off this hat, and exclaimed
: ' Good gracious ! Miss Lefroy — how
delighted I am ! I didn't know you were in
London.'

Hope bowed, colouring slightly, and for
the first time in her life feeling sly ; and the
young man added j with a rather crestfallen

air : ' You have forgotten all about me, I see.
If there is a thiiifr that fills me with grief and
humiliation, it is having to tell people who I
am ; but there's no help for it, evidently, this
time. My name is Cunningham. Xow, don't
say you never heard it before.'

There was not much danger of her saying
that ; nor had she ever forgotten the fascinating
partner with whom she had once spent a
happy evening and against whom she had been
warned on the following day. Only he seemed
to her to belong to some previous state of
existence ; this name was written in a concluded
chapter ; the change in her circumstances,
she thought, had opened an impassable
<iulf between her and the world to which
she belonged by birth ; and this — or some
other reason which she did not specify to herself
— made her feel embarrassed ; so that she
could find nothing to say, except : ' Oh, I remember
you quite well, Captain Cunningham.'

Are you going to be any time in London ? '
he asked. ' Where are you staying ? May I
call upon you ? '

'Well, no ; I am afraid you can't do that,'
answered Hope, recovering her self-possession,
because I am living all by myself.'

Then, as he looked much astonished, lie
explained : ' That is, I am having with my old
nurse. I don't know whether — perhaps you
have heard of my — my — misfortunes.'

The young man, assuming a decently lugubrious
expression of countenance, replied that
he had, adding something about ' awfully
sorry — very shocking,' — and so lapsing into
unintelligible murmuring.

I am studying Art,' Hope continued ; ' I
hope to be able to support myself in that way
some day or other.'

She was moving on now and Cunningham
was walking beside her. Mills having dropped
into the background.

Support yourself ? ' repeated the young
man in a tone of astonishment amounting
almost to stupefaction. ' T — I — never heard of
such a tiling ! '

It is my own choice,' said Hope, smiling
at this consternation and guessing what Iiis

thoughts were. ' My uncle and aunt Avant
me to stay on with them at Helston ; but I did
not wish to do that. I felt that I must earn
my OAvn living. Don't you understand ? ' she
asked with a toiicli of impatience; for the
young fellow Alas staring at lier in undisguised
surprise.

Oh, yes,' he answered slowly, • I understand
— only I don't sympathise. It is the sort
of thins that you would be sure to do, and
I admire you for it. All the more because
it is the sort of thing that I should be sure
not to do.'

AVould you not rather feel that you were
living by the work of your own hands, than
upon an allowance made you by an uncle ? '

• I shouldn't advise any uncle of mine to
offer me an allowance unless he meant his offer
to be jumped at. Xo, Miss Lefroy ; it is my
fixed principle never to do anything for myself
so long as I can get somebody else to do it
for me.'

After making this scandalous confession, of
which he did not appear to be in the least

ashamed, Captain Cunningham walked on in
silence for a few seconds. ' I should like
awfully to see your pictures,' he remarked
presently. ' Couldn't I manage to get a look
at them somehow ? '

'Not just at present,' answered Hope,
sedately. ' When I have painted a sufficient
number, I shall exhibit them in a gallery in
Bond Street, and you will be admitted with
the rest of the public, upon payment of a
shilling. But it seems possible that you may
have to wait a year or two.'

And am I to wait a year or two before I
see you again ? '

This was a question to which Hope was
not prepared to give a reply ; but it struck
her all of a sudden that the present interview
had lasted lons^ enough ; so she came to a
standstill, and said : ' I don't know. At any
rate, I will not take you farther out of your
way now.'

Captain Cunningham looked very unwilling
to accept his dismissal.

Of course, if you tell me to go, I must go,'

he said, throwing a reproachful expression
into those dark brie eyes of his ; ' but, bliss
Lefroy, do you never go anywhere where —
where — your friends are likely to meet you ? '

Xever.'

I suppose you go home sometimes — to
your uncle's, I mean ? '

Oh, yes ; I shall be going do^rn there at
Christmas.'

Come, that's better ! ' cried the young
man, cheerfully. ' I'll get them to ask me
down too.' And after shaking hands with
somewhat unnecessary warmth he departed.

As soon as he was out of hearing. Mills,
whose face was bright ^vitli pleasure and excitement,
and who during the above colloquy
had found time to construct a complete romance,
exclaimed: 'My dear, what a beautiful
young gentleman ! '

Hope laughed. ' He is a nice sort of boy,'
she said ; ' I don't think he is particularly
beautiful.'

Xevertheless, she did think so, and indeed
could jiardlv have thought anvthinf]^ else.

Also she had a suspicion that lie admired her
very much, and this admiration was not altogether
disagreeable to her. Is there any
woman living to whom the admiration of a
beautiful young gentleman would be disagreeable
? Hope was very far from setting
possibilities before herself in the uncompromising
fashion adopted by Mills ; but more
than once in the course of the next few days
she found herself wondering dien and where
she would next meet Captain Cunningham,
and by what means he proposed to get himself
invited to Helston Abbey.

It was not by such mere details that
Captain Cunningham was likely to be baffled.
His acquaintance With Mr. Lefroy and Lady
Jane was only a slight one, it was true ; but
if he did not know them very well, he knew
numbers of people with whom they were
intimate, and his experience had taught him
that an invitation to a country house may
easily be obtained in many ways by a resolute
man. He had, however, a conscience ; which
conscience told him that lie ou2[ht not to seek

for this particular invitation. The fact that
he had fallen profoundly in love With Hope
Lefroy (he had been profoundly in love once
or twice before) did not, he felt, justify him
in pursuing her. He had no money worth
mentioning, and it appeared that she was
now in the same undesirable predicament.
Conscience, therefore — or was it prudence,
perhaps P — waved him imperatively away from
her. In this strait he followed the dictates of
his nature and confided his trouble t(j a
certain lady friend of his, whose advice was
prompt and unhesitating :

You will please not to make a fool of
yourself,' this worldly-wise lady said ; * and,
as I can't trust you out of my sight, I will
take very good care that you spend sour
Christmas with us.'

It is thus that worldly-wise ladies often
succeed in preparing the way for all kinds of
catastrophes.

CHAPTEE VIII.

ME. HERBERT OX MARRIAGE.

Man is born to labour and sorrow, as the
sparks fly upward. The majority of us have
so many serious troubles and anxieties that
we accept the minor miseries of suppressed
gout, unpaid bills, tedious acquaintances,
corns and the like, as incidental to our mortal
lot, and have neither time nor disposition to
grumble at them. But when a man has
everything in the world to make him happy ;
when he is healthy and wealthy, and has a
modest conviction that he is also wise ; when
his eldest daughter is about to be married to
an altogether unexceptionable viscount ; when
his yearly bills are all made beautiful by
receipt stamps, and when he has not so much
as a corn to complain of, it is but natural that

he should resent very deeply any trifling
worry that may intrude upon this bliss, and
think it hard that he should be afflicted with
a wrongs-headed niece.

This is why mr. Lefroy, after Welcoming
Hope back to Helston with appropriate
Christmas greetings, hastened to promote the
merriment of the season by adding emphatically
: 'And now I do trust that we live
heard the last of this nonsense ! '

Hope wished to know what nonsense.

Why this picture-painting and starving
in frowsy London lodgings.'

Indeed they are not frowsy,' said Hope.

Very well, they are not froAvsy ; but they
are lodgings and you starved in them. Don't
say you didn't, because I know better. You
have actually paid back to my bankers the
wretched little sum I gave you before you
left us. Xow I must say I think that is
rather too bad ! '

Please don't be angry, Uncle Montague ;
it is only that I do want to live upon my own
resources, if I can.'

M}^ dear, I am not the least angry ; but I
am bothered, and I can't for the life of me
see why yon slionld wish to bother me in this
way. Do yon think it is pleasant to be asked
by every single person who comes to the
house Avhat my niece is doing, and to be
obliged to reply : "Oh, she is up in London,
trying to keep body and soul together by
painting pictures ? " I put it to you as a
sensible girl — do you think it is pleasant? '

Is that the answer that you make. Uncle
Montague ? '

Xo ; but it's what they understand. And
then they say " Poor girl ! " and look pensive.
You must admit that this is a little trying to
a well-meaning uncle, who only asks to be
allowed to do his duty.'

There is a well-meaning niece in the case
who wants to be allowed to do hers,' observed
Hope.

She was not going to give in ; but lie
perceived that there were breakers ahead,
and it was fortunate for her that her aunt
and cousins were just now fully occupied

with Alice's engagement and approaching
marriage t(.) Lord Middleborough. The bride-elect,
to ^vliose lot had fallen the rare privilege
of pleasing her family and consulting her
own inclinations at one and the same time,
was in an excusable condition of o-lee, and
could hardly be expected to interest herself
much at such a moment in her cousin's artistic
career, which, indeed, neither she nor her
sister had ever taken quite seriously. When,
in the midst of a grave discussion as to the
colours to be worn by the bridesmaids at
the coming nuptials, Alice interrupted herself
to remark : ' Of course you ^^-ill come with
us to London in February, Hope ? ' and when
Hope replied that she intended to return
to London long before the date mentioned.
both the girls laughed, assuring her that she
could not do such a thing as that. Time
doctor having prescribed a total change of
surroundings for her, there had been a reason
to give for her leaving Helston in the autumn
; but lie was well again now, and
it would never do for her to be livings in

Henrietta Street while her relations were in
Eaton Square. People would think it so

(Xld.

Does it matter what people think ? ' Hope
asked.

To which absurd question her cousins replied
wonderingly : ' Of course it does, dear —
it's the one thing that does matter.'

The proposition was to them so self-evident
that they were unable to understand how
so talented a girl as Hope could fail to grasp
it ; while she, on her side, found it simply incredible
that any human being should shape
the course of his or her life in submission to
the prejudices of a few careless gossips. The
best plan was to say no more about it ; and
luckily there were many other subjects to be
talked about.

A considerable number of visitors were
already in the house, and more were expected.
Lord Middleborougli, an amiable,
unremarkable young man, with large possessions,
arrived on Christmas Eve, as did also
various members of the Lefroy clan, Who had

been wont to consider Helston a dullish house
in bygone days, and who appeared to be
pleased with the new regime ; but there was
one person who did not come, and Hope
could not help wondering why he didn't. She
mentioned casually to Gertrude that she had
met Captain Cunningham one day in London,
and asked A\'hether they had heard anything
of him lately. The reply that she received
was not wholly satisfactory to her.

Oh, no,' Gertrude answered ; ' we never
hear of him when we are in the country,
except sometimes from Dick Herbert, who is
rather a friend of this. People said at one
time that he was going to marry Dick's sister,
who is an heiress. Captain Cunningham is
the kind of man who is sure to marry an
heiress some day; but I suppose he will put
it off as loner as he can.'

Things are made very liard for the poor
heiresses,' Hope remarked. ' I am glad I am
not one any longer.'

Things are much more often made hard
for those who are not heiresses,' rejoined

Vol. I. L

Gertrude ; and there seemed to be something
to be said in support of that view.

But Hope trusted that things were not
going to be made hard for her just yet. Her
uncle, after his first little querulous outburst,
left her in peace ; and her aunt, as she fondly
imagined, was too busy with her guests and
future son-in-law to think about anybody or
anything else. Lady Jane, however, was
quite capable of thinking about a good many
things simultaneously. She had received a
hint from her husband and was by no means
so indifferent as she appeared to be.

'Well,' she said rather sharply to the
doctor, who was invited to dinner on Christmas
Hay, ' your prescription lias had no
effect.'

Eeally, my dear lady,' replied the man
of medicine blandly, ' I don't think you ought
to say that. Miss Lefroy is looking quite
well and strong again.'

I don't speak of her bodily health. She
is not cured of her complaint ; and you
promised that she should be.'

Oh, pardon me, I made no promise?.
And, if you remember, a year was the period
of absence which was found successful in the
case that I cited to you.'

It is utterly and absolutely impossible forme
to send my niece away for a year,' returned
Lady Jane pettishly.

Then neither my prescription nor I must
be blamed if the patient has a relapse.
Seriously, I don't see how you can have
expected her to become discouraged so soon.
A month or two at sea may be enough to cure
a lad of wishing to be a sailor ; but a month
or two in comfortable quarters in London is
hardly enough to cure a young lady of aspiring
to be an artist. You should have given
her time to fail.'

But I am not sure that she would have
failed. Besides, a girl's time is really too
valuable to be wasted in that way. Xo ; I
am much obliged to you, but I shall try
another prescription now.'

The doctor smiled. He guessed what the
prescription would be, and was not concerned

l2

to dispute its efficacy. Doubtless it would be
better for the poor girl to marry than to fail
or succeed in her effort to" support herself.
The only question was whether she would
consent to accept a husband of her aunt's
choosing.

Lady Jane Avrote out her prescription and
sent it off the very next morning. It ran as
follows ; —

'My dear Dick, — I wish you would run
down here for a few days. I say a few days,
Because I am afraid you will not be persuaded
to remain longer ; but I need not tell you how
pleased we shall be if you care to stay on.
You can hunt three times a week easily from
here, and Mr. Lefroy wishes me to add that
he has stabling for as many horses as you like
to bring. Hope is with us now, and that is
one reason why I want you to come : because
you seem better able than anyone else to
amuse her and draw away her thoughts from
her father's death, which she has not yet got
over, I fear. I took your advice and let her

go up to London by herself for some time ;
but it was a dangerous experiment and I don't
think it has succeeded very well. Do let me
have a line to say that you will come, and
Believe me,
Always affectionately yours,

'Jane Lefroy.'

In due course of time Mr. Herbert telegraphed
' All right ; ' and Lady Jane, who had
not been quite sure that her invitation would
be accepted, considered this somewhat unceremonious
reply as a good omen. Perhaps it
would be all right, she thought ; after all, why
should it not be ? A glow of legitimate pride
came over her as she reflected upon the triumph
of capturing so confirmed a bachelor as
Dick Herbert. ' He certainly admired Hope
very much when he was here before,' she said
to herself, ' and I doubt whether he would
come back again if he did not mean something.
Oh, what a mercy it will be if he does ! '

But the vexatious thing about this man
was that, although he lead an established

character for plain dealing and practised
plain speaking to an extent wliicli bordered
upon the offensive, it was not always as easy
as it ought to have been to discover exactly
what he meant. What, for instance, did he
mean by such a speech as this ? —

'I'm awfully glad that Alice is making
such a good match, and I congratulate you
with all my heart, you know; but at the same
time I wish you hadn't asked me to come
here until the business was over. It's enough
to give anybody the blues to see poor Middle-borough
in his present deplorable condition.'

This was about the only remark that he
addressed to Lady Jane on the evening of his
arrival ; and, having made it, lie walked away,
feimins^ not to hear her when she called out
to him to come back and explain himself.
To Hope, however, he deigned to unfold his
sentiments at somewhat greater length.

'I do think,' he announced to her, 'that to
marry for love is about the most idiotic thing
that anybody can do.'

He sank down, as he spoke, upon the sofa

at the end of the long drawing-room where
Hope was sitting alone, her hands lying idle
in her lap and her eyes fixed pensively upon
the betrothed couple, who had withdrawn
into a remote corner and were pretending to
play chess. She turned, with a look of surprise,
to her neighbour.

Why is it idiotic ? ' she asked. ' I should
have thought there couldn't be a better reason
for marrying.'

Oh, I've no doubt you would have thought
so,' answered Herbert, a trifle irritably ; ' at
your age one does think so. After one has
kept one's eyes open for a considerable number
of years one knows better. To been
with, it's such a one-sided business. Nearly
always it is the man who is in love, and if, by
any chance, it happens to be the woman, so
much the worse for her.'

Hope made no reply, but glanced significantly
at her cousin and Lord Middleborough
and smiled.

Oh, well,' resumed Herbert, ' I didn't say
always, I said nearly always. It may happen

that both are in love ; but what then? What
is falling in love ? It's a pleasant sort of
experience, taking it altogether, and of course
it becomes delightful if your love is returned,
or if you fancy that it is returned. But to
marry because you are in love is illogical. A
man who does that is very apt to wake up
some fine morning and find that he has
tied himself for life to a vixen or a fool
or a flirt.'

What would you have people marry for,
then ? ' inquired Hope. ' For money ? '

I have known people who have done so
and haven't regretted it. At any rate, they
have got all that they expected, don't you see?
The great thing is to have a clear understanding
before you start, and if one of you, or both
of you, are in love that's an impossibility.'

I don't think I should care to have the
future put before me in that cut-and-dried
way,' said Hope. 'I would rather take my
chance of disappointment. If anyone offered
to tell me now exactly what prospect I have
of becoming an artist I should stop my ears.

Some day or other I must know the worst or
the best ; but I don't want to know yet.'

Your character seems to be the opposite
of mine,' remarked Herbert ; ' I like to face
things.'

By-and-by he asked : ' What do your
masters say to you ? '

'I have only one master, Mr. Tristram,
and he says very little.'

Oh ; and what does your uncle say ? '

Nothing encouraging. I am afraid I
shall have to fight another battle before I go
back to London.'

Herbert stretched out his long legs and
looked at his feet. ' I rather think,' said he,
deliberately, ' that you will get beaten.'

If you do think so, it is not very kind to
say so,' returned Hope, with a flash of anger
in her eyes. ' I have won one Battle ; wiry
should I not win another ? '

Only because in your particular case it is
easier to win one victory than taro. Why can't
you stay here till February, and then go up
with the others ? '

'You know why — and I did not expect
you to turn against me,' answered Hope, still
much incensed against her former supporter.

Yes,' said Herbert, with a sigh, ' I know.
But, all the same, I am bound to confess
that if I were your uncle I should not let
you leave Helston again. People are sure
to talk. In fact, they have begun talking
already.'

I thought you didn't care what people
saide'

We all care really. We may pretend
that we don't ; but we do. Young Cunningham
told me the other day that he had met
you in Hyde Park and that you were living in
lodgings somewhere all by yourself, and he
wanted to know the meaning of it. I daresay
he has been asking everybody.'

I don't see why there need be any
mystery about the matter,' answered Hope ;
it isn't disgraceful.' She hesitated for a moment
before adding : ' Do you know Captain
Cunningham well ? '

Yes ; about as well as one knows a man

with whom one has nothing much in common.
Why do you ask ? '

He opened his eyes a hair's-breadth wider
than usual and fixed them upon his questioner,
who, to her annoyance, felt herself colouring
shortly.

I don't know,' she replied. ' The girls
told me that he was a friend of yours, and I
wondered whether it could be true. As you
say, you and he are — are — not at all like one
another.'

He is a very pleasant sort of a fellow,'
said Herbert, briefly. He looked as if he
were going to add something, but apparently
thought better of it, and, having already
talked a ixreat deal more than he was wont todo
in one evening, relapsed into silence.

It is proverbial that silence is often
eloquent, and likewise that there are persons
who sometimes shine by their absence. If
Captain Cunningham had desired to be as
much in Miss Lefroy's thoughts as she was in
his own at this time, he could not have
adopted a wiser course than to deny himself a

visit to Helston Abbey, nor could Fortune
have served him better than by sending
thither a friend of his who never spoke
ill of the absent, and who, when he could
not say much good of them, held his
tongue.

AX Alternative.

Helstox Abbey would accommodate some
thirty visitors or more, and indeed lead frequently
done so in former times. Under the
rule of its late owner, as has already been
said, the greater part of its bedrooms had
remained unoccupied from year's end to year's
end ; but now it was beginning: to recover its
ancient character for hospitality. Not, of
course, that a renewal of the revels of a bygone
generation, when guests were considered
to be sighting their host if they displayed
anything like hurry in their departure, was
possible or desired. The present ]mr. Lefroy
and his wife had always been smart sort of
people, mixing in smart society, and their
hospitality was of the modern kind. The

friends who partook of their excellent dinners,
eliot their pheasants, and danced in the
picture-gallery, which had been converted
into a ball-room, would have been bored,
perhaps, if they had been pressed to prolong
their visit beyond three days ; at any rate
they could not have yielded to pressure,
because they were always going on somewhere
else. Arrivals and departures took
jilace every day ; strange faces wei-e forever
appearing and disappearing; husbands came
without their wives and wives without their
husbands, which seemed to Hope an odd thing,
and the general effect of it all was to her very
fatiguing and bewildering.

She asked her uncle once whether he did
not find it so ; but he said : 'Oh, no ; I'm
accustomed to it, you see, and it doesn't goon
all the year round. We can put up more
lodgers here than we could at Southcote,
so I daresay it will come to an end sooner.
Besides, I never bother myself If I don't
remember people's names I avoid calling
them anything until I find out who they are.

and your aunt tells me if there is something
particular that I ought to say to them.'

Mr. Lefroy rather overstated the case
against himself. He had a pretty good
memory and generally managed to say the
right tiling to the right person, without being
prompted. If he did not put himself much
out of the way to entertain his guests, he was
always genial and pleasant, and welcomed
them as if he were glad to see them — and, for
that matter, so he was. He liked society ; he
liked talking at certain hours of the day ;
only it made very little difference to him
whether the person with whom he was conversing
was called Peter or Paul ; nor did he,
as a rule, notice of what units the crowd
around his dinner-table might chance to be
composed.

One thing, however, lie did end by
observing, and that was that while others
came and went Dick Herbert remained
immovable. This discovery rather pleased
him ; for he knew very well that Dick
Herbert would not stay so long without a

reason, and it was easy to surmise what that
reason must be. It would indeed be a good
thing if Dick and Hope should take a fancy to
one another ; but Mr. Lefroy, who had seen a
great deal of the world and whose character
had a strong vein of good-humoured cynicism
in it, was aware that men frequently take
fancies to girls without going the extreme
length of proposing to them. Moreover, he
suspected that Hope would require to be very
decidedly in love with a man indeed before
she would consent to marry him. He had
the curiosity to watch the pair, and was
forced to the conclusion that, although they
where constantly together and seemed to enjoy
each other's company, they where not as yet
lovers. As to Dick one could not speak with
any certainty, because he was such an undemonstrative
fellow ; but Hope had little
power of hiding her feelings, and her feeling
for this very worthy gentleman and large
landed proprietor was too evidently one of
friendship only.

Nothing will come of it,' Mr. Lefroy said

to himself, and sighed ; for it woukl have been
most convenient in every way if something
could have been made to come of it.

Lady Jane was far from sharing his despondent
view. She was too busy to pay
attention to details ; the fact that Dick
Herbert had stayed a whole fortnight in the
house was sufficient for her, and when she
had time to think about her niece at all, she
thought of her with fond affection. .The dear
girl had seemed disposed to be odd and
troublesome at first ; but she was clearly bent
upon doing the right thing now, and her
aunt's blessings awaited her. She had only to
come and ask for it, coupling with her request
that announcement which Lady Jane
conceived that she had now every right to
expect.

All the more profound, therefore, were
her ladyship's disgust and disappointment
when, one evening towards the middle of
January, Hope followed her into lier bedroom,
after the party had broken up for the
nio'ht, to sav — not that she was enii-aiTed to

Vol. I. M

Mr. Herbert, but that she proposed returning
to London forthwith.

I wish,' Lady Jane exclaimed somewhat
sharply, ' that you would not talk such absurd
nonsense ! You will go to London with us
next month ; but sooner than that you cannot
go. I thought your uncle had explained it
all to you.'

It is very kind of you to wish to keep me,
Aunt Jane,' answered the girl, preserving an
appearance of calmness, though she was inwardly
a good deal alarmed ; ' but I ought
not to waste any more time. I really must
go tomorrow or the day after.'

My dear, " must " is hardly a proper
word for you to use. It is an ugly word, and
I would much rather not use it myself; I
prefer to ask you why you are so anxious to
leave us all of a sudden. It seemed to me
that you were enjoying yourself here. Has
anything occurred to — distress you ? '

Lady Jane was not going to make the
mistake of mentioning Dick Herbert's name ;
but she thought that if there had been a

lovers' quarrel she had better find out about
it, with a view to effecting a reconciliation.

But Hope was apparently unconscious of
her meaning. • I have no reason except the
old one,' lie answered : ' I want to get on
With my work, and I want to earn my daily
bread as soon as I can.'

Eeally, Hope, you have no business to
say such things, and I sincerely trust that you
don't say them to other people. There is not,
and there never was or will be, any question
of your earning your daily bread. I don't
for a moment suppose that you could do it, if
you tried ; but your uncle will certainly not
allow you to try. I think you are apt to
forget that he is your guardian.'

Hope did not forget it at all ; nor did she
forget who ruled her guardian. She sank on
her knees beside the arm-chair in which Lady
Jane was sitting, and pleaded, as eloquently as
she knew how, to be permitted to have her
own way in this thing. She believed that she
had some talent for painting, she said ; if she
had not, Mr. Tristram would soon tell her,

M 2

and til en slice would promise to give up all
thought of becoming an artist. Only let her
have a few more months of probation; that
was all she asked. She was convinced that if
her father were alive he would approve of
her intentions ; and surely Uncle Montague
mijiht be brou^i^ht to consent !

She was very much in earnest ; her pleading
was pretty and pathetic ; and Lady Jane,
who was not more hard-hearted than another,
was touched by it. But one must not neglect
one's duty because one is touched, and everybody
knows that good-natured weakness is
often more cruel than severity. Tor these
reasons Lady Jane straightened herself in her
chair, knitted her brows, put up her eyeglasses,
and said : ' Hope, do you know what
is your greatest fault ? '

Yes,' answered Hope ; ' it is pride.'
No, my dear ; silliness. You say " I
want this — I want that " ; you don't consider
Avliat the effect of your following your fancies
would be upon others. Why, if your uncle
and I allowed you to live apart from us and

paint pictures for a livelihood, as though you
were a pauper '

I am a pauper; interjected Hope.

That is not the question ; and please
allow me to finish. I say that if we did that,
we should be simply execrated ! Even as it
is, disagreeable things have been said. That
horrid old Lady Chatterton has gone about
telling everybody that I won't have you in
the house because you are prettier than Gertrude.
I do think it is hard upon me ! '

'But, Aunt Jane, nobody would believe
such falsehoods.'

That is exactly where you are mistaken,
my dear ; everybody believes falsehoods.'

And from that startling position Lady
Jane declined to be drawn. Hope exhausted
argument and entreaty in vain. Her aunt
listened to her, but was always ready with
the same conclusive reply. What she asked
for could not be given to her. Her request
was unreasonable ; but even if it had been
reasonable, that would have made no difference
: the one important tiling was that Lady

Chatterton should not be given an excuse for
being ill-natured. She closed the interview
by sajdng : ' Believe me, my dear, there is no
cure but marriage for girls who are bitten
with a longing for independence. Marriage
does not make them independent ; but if they
have good husbands, they learn to be content
with dependency.'

Hope went away defeated and dejected,
and from that evenings she began to look forward
to the future with less confident eyes.
She might think that her aunt was at least as
selfish as she was ; but she was obliged to
admit that an impartial person would probably
pronounce her aunt to be in the right.
Mr. Herbert was an impartial person, and she
could get no comfort out of him. When she
told him of her troubles and fears, he looked
distressed, but did not seem to think that
there was anything for it but submission.
More than once she said to herself that it
might be better, after all, to give up crying
for the moon. Her lot was the common lot,
and how was she to escape from it if nobody

would back her up ? To live on at Helston
all her days would be intolerable ; but there
always remained the alternative of the good
husband. A good husband, she supposed,
meant a rich husband. Johnson's dictionary
defines ' good ' as ' fit ; proper ; convenient '
a definition which would doubtless be
concurred in by Lady Jane. Love, fancy,
ambition — all these things are very Avell for
such as can afibrd to indulge in them ; but
they are not fit, proper, or convenient for
young ladies of limited income. Life is hard ;
fife is practical ; ' most friendship is feigning,
most loving mere folly ' ; and nothing signifies
very much, except that one should cease to
be a burden upon one's relations and that
the mouth of Lady Chatterton should be
stopped.

This gloomy survey of existence Alas encouraged
by many little unintentional slights,
by continual unavoidable reminders of the
changed orders of things, by a sense of utter
loneliness for which nobody was to blame. It
may even be that a few careless words, overheard

one evening at the dinner-table, had
something[ to do with it.

So little Mrs. Pierpoint has established
herself at Melton this year, I hear,' somebody
said. ' Pierpoint's abroad — gone away for
his health.'

Leaving Bertie Cunningham in charge,
eh? ' said somebody else, with a laugh.

Well, he is riding Pierpoint's horses, anyhow.
How far he replaces him in other ways
I don't know.'

The woman is old enough to be his
mother,' remarked a third.

Oh, not quite that. And she has a long
string of hunters. I daresay Bertie gets a
holiday every now and then and consoles
himself

Now, the doings of Captain Cunningham
and little Mrs. Pierpoint, whoever she might
be, could, of course, be no concern of Miss
Lefroy's ; only when one has allowed oneself
to feel a certain interest in and regard for an
individual, it is dispiriting to learn that he
is an entirely worthless person, and if one

happens to be young and impatient one is apt
to be led by such discoveries into judging a
whole class from a single specimen. So Hope
thought that she was making acquaintance
with the world, and that the world, taking it
as a whole, was a poor sort of place. It is
not at the aise of nineteen that one can admit
the existence of intermediate shades between
black and white.

In the course of a few days it came to
pass that Mr. Lefroy gave a great hunt-breakfast.
He himself was no longer a
hunting-man, but most of his guests were ;
besides many people may be invited to such
entertainments to whom it is difficult to show
civility in any other way. Therefore the
county at large was asked, and responded
with alacrity. The celebrated pack assembled
on the lawn and was admired from the
windows ; and the Master of the Hounds
made himself agreeable to Hope by saying
cheerily : ' Well, Miss Lefroy, this is more
like ; isn't it ? I never expected to see such
a lot of pink coats inside Hist on. ind.

pray, why haven't you got your riding-habit
on ? '

Hope lead not put on her riding-habit
because lie was not going to hunt ; and she
was not going to hunt for reasons which the
worthy M.F.H. might have divined, if he had
not been just a little bit dense. In old days
hunting, or at least riding to the meet and
seeing something of the hunt, had been one
of her chief pleasures during the winter
months ; but then in the old days her father
had been with her, and she had had horses
of her own. She had, indeed, horses of her
own still ; only she did not choose to consider
them so. Perhaps her uncle was justified in
thinking this perverse and silly of her, and
perhaps her cousins had a right to express
their annoyance with her for preferring to
stay at home when everybody else was going
to the covert-side. Lady Jane said nothing,
but Lady Jane happened to know that her
niece was not going to stay at home.

The hounds and hunt-servants had moved
away ; the field had followed, and Hope was

standing at the window, watching, rather
disconsolately, the last of the carriages as it
disappeared round the bend of the drive,
when a voice behind her remarked : ' I suppose
we might as Avell be starting now, might
we not ? '

Hope turned round and saw, to her
surprise, Mr. Herbert, in his ordinary dress,
standing at lier elbow. ' You here ! ' she
exclaimed. ' Aren't you going to hunt ? '

No ; going to drive you in a pony-trap,'
he replied, laconically. 'The old lady's orders,'
he added, by way of explanation.

Do you mean to say that Aunt Jane
asked you to take me ? ' cried Hope. ' How
nice of her ! "

She went away to put on her hat with a
more cheerful countenance than she had worn
of late. She was glad that she was not to be
left behind, and still more glad that anyone
should have been considerate enough to understand
that she might like to see the meet,
though she could not quite bring herself to
Gfo thither on horseback, as of okL ' Poor

Ain't Jane ! ' she mused ; ' I suppose she
means to be kind.'

Lady Jane undoubtedly meant to be kind ;
lout if Hope had had any suspicion of what
her aunt's motives were for depriving Mr.
Herbert of a day's hunting, she woukl have
felt less grateful. She was, however, very far
from guessing the truth. It had never crossed
her mind that Mr. Herbert could be the
potential good husband to whom Lady Jane
had made allusion. She liked the man, preferring
his society to that of anyone else in
the house, and believing him to be sincerely
her friend ; she was always willing to Avalk or
drive with him, and the more so because their
intimacy had now reached that pleasant stage
at which the making of conversation is no
longer necessary, and silence is permissible.

Of this privilege Herbert was accustomed
to avail himself extensively. He never opened
his lips after Hope had seated herself beside
him in the little two-wheeled basket-carriage,
but devoted his attention to sending the pony
along at a pace rapid enough to enable them

to overtake the rest of the party, who had
got a considerable start. Hope, for her part,
did not care to talk. Lie was content to sit
still and think her own thoiisfhts, as she was
borne past the familiar trees and fields and
hedgerows which she loved so much, and
which sometimes seemed to her to be stonily
indifferent, and sometimes tenderly regretful,
according as her own mood might chance to
be. It was one of those still, misty, silver-grey
days when all outlines are indistinct and
the earth gives out a pleasant, fresh smell,
and every twig has its tiny crystal dewdrop.
The smoke rose straight from the cottage
chimneys, the windmill on the common was
motionless, even the jackdaws that lived in
the grey church-tower were silent. Hope
had an inward greeting for them all. ' Goodbye,
church ; good-bye, jackdaws ; good-bye,
dear old mill ! ' She was always saying goodbye
to these old friends, though it was likely
enough that she would see them many times
again. Perhaps it was not so much to them
as to her old life that she was bidding farewell

; to the old life which was slipping away
from her — the very memory of it even growing
dim — and upon which lie was ineffectually
trying to keep a lingering hold.

She was sorry when the drive was over,
and when she was once more among the
spruce, well-turned-out men and women who
looked as if they would have been so much
more in their proper place in ]belgravia than
at Helston. But she was not detained long in
the company of the dowagers ; for Herbert
got somebody to open a gate for him and
drove her across the grass to the side of
the spinney in which the hounds Avere,
and whither the heavier vehicles could not
follow. They had not arrived upon the scene
a minute too soon : for almost immediately
the fox broke cover ; the field, a somewhat
large one, went streaming away downhill, and
the pony, excited by the thunder of hoofs and
profiting by the inattention of his driver,
plunged suddenly forward and made a bolt
for it. However, he was pulled up, after a
good deal of bumping and jolting, by the

strong arms of Dick Herbert, who did not
appear to think the episode worthy of comment,
but only asked : * Are we to go home
now ? '

I suppose so,' Hope answered, rather
reluctantly.

Do you want to go home r ' he inquired ;
and when she said 'Xo,' he rejoined 'All
right, then ; we'll make a round. I daresay
you know the roads hereabouts well enough
to tell me if I ao wronfj.'

After this he did not speak again for a
long time. It was not until they had traversed
some miles of road, and the pony had
been eased up a hill, that he turned to his
companion and said abruptly : * Well ? '

Hope started out of a day-dream and
looked up at him, smiling. ' Well ? ' she
returned.

I mean, how are you setting" <-)n y Are
you at all more resigned to things than you
were ? '

Xo,' answered Hope, becoming grave
again, ' not yet. I feel that there is just the

shadow of a chance that I may be able to
talk Uncle Montague over. When that is
gone, I daresay I shall realise that what can't
be cured must be endured.'

Oh, lie won't be talked over,' said
Herbert ; ' your chance was with Lady Jane,
and I'm afraid that is disposed of now.'

I am afraid so,' assented Hope.

There was a ]pause of a minute or two, and
then Herbert resumed : ' Miss Lefroy, I have
a proposition to make to you. I don't know
whether it will startle you or not ; but there
is ]really no reason why it should. I take it
that what you want is to get away from
Weston — if possible, by setting up an establishment
of your own — but anyhow to get
away. Well, as I told you before, the only
way in which you can manage that is by
marrying somebody ; and what I was thinking
was, low would it be if you were to
marry me P '

This most unexpected proposal, and the
perfect composure and slight drawl with
which it was enunciated, took Hope so much

aback that she hardly realised the meaning of
the words. ' What ? ' she ejaculated.

I say, how would it be if you were to
marry me ? You might just think it over.
I wouldn't sucrcjest it if I could see anv other
way out of the difficulty ; but I can't. We
have been capital friends from the first ; you
would be allowed to have your own way
pretty well in everything, and I believe I ama
very easy sort of fellow to live with.
Besides, I daresay I should be a good deal
away from home.'

Hope burst out laughing. ' I never heard
anything so funny I' she exclaimed. And then,
becoming suddenly serious : ' !Mr. Herbert, do
you really suppose that I should allow you or
anybody else to marry me out of charity? I
don't quite know whether I ought to be angry
or grateful ; but I think I am grateful to you.
Only, of course, I can't accept your offer.'

There's no need to be angry, or grateful
either,' said Herbert, placidly. ' It's a sort of
mutual accommodation business, don't you
see? I have always felt that I should have to

Vol. 1. N

marry some day, and if you won't have me, I
shall probably fall into the jaws of some
London girl who will — well, play the deuce
generally. As for you, depend upon it, you
won't be able to remain unmarried much
longer. You may think you will, just as you
thought you might live in a studio in London ;
but you'll find that circumstances and Lady
Jane will be too many for you. And I can't
help thinking that you might chance upon a
worse husband than I should be.'

But, Mr. Herbert,' objected Hope, half
laughing, and colouring a little, ' I may be
old-fashioned — only it does seem to me that
there can be no happiness in marriages where
there is no love.'

Yes, I know ; but I differ from you there,
and you'll allow that I have seen more of the
world than you have. There ought to be
liking I admit ; people ought to be able to
get on together when they are married. But
you may be furiously in love and yet not get
on together a bit — I've seen it scores of times.
The fact is that that kind of thing seldom lasts.

After a year or so it is just as if you had
never been in love at all ; and where are you
then, you know ? It's a regular cat-and-dog
sort of life very often. I give you my word,'
he added, ^vith more earnestness, ' that I
would never dream of asking you to do this if
I didn't believe that it would be for your
happiness in the long run.'

Hope made no reply. Should she reject
this helping hand that was held out to her or
not y A few weeks ago she would have
laughed to scorn anyone who should have
suggested that she could hesitate in such a
case. She, of all people in the world, to make
a marriage of convenience ! 'A sort of mutual
accommodation business ' ! She would have
shuddered at the bare thought. But she did
not shudder now. Her eyes had been opened,
or she thought that they had ; she had lost
confidence in herself and in the future.
Romance was not for her. It was by no
means unlikely that some day circumstances
and Lady Jane might, as Herbert predicted,
force her into marrying a man for whom she

n 2

did not care ; and, as far as mere liking went,
she certainly did like her present dispassionate
wooer very much.

'What do you think of it?' he asked,
after giving her plenty of time for reflection.

I don't know,' she answered, with a deep
sigh. ' Even if I wished to accept, I am not
sure that I ought.'

Well, don't accept and don't refuse ; that's
the best way. I'll tell you what you might
do,' he added presently ; ' you might make it
conditional. Suppose you were to go back to
London for a time and see whether there is
really any chance of your succeeding as an
artist ? If you find that there is, you can
afford to wait until you are of age, and the
engagement shall be off; if not, you might
take me as a j)'^s-aUer. I would arrange it all
with your people. They won't like to prevent
your going, because I shall explain to
them that, if they do, I shall look upon your
refusal as final, and not repeat my offer. Do
you see ? '

Hope began to laugh again, though there

were tears in her eyes. ' Do you know,' she
said, looking up at her companion, ' that you
are very odd ? You seem to be thinking only
of me ; you don't consider yourself.'

I beg your pardon ; I am considering myself
the whole time. I want you to marry
me. Indeed, I may say that I want it very
much. It appears to me that we are suited to
one another in many ways.'

'And are you quite sure that — that you
don't expect '

Expect you to be in love with me ? Certainly
not. I know that that is impossible.'

'There is nothing impossible about it,'
returned Hope, with a touch of impatience ;
only it isn't so. Do you quite understand
that it isn't so ? '

'Quite, thanks. Xow let us talk about
something else.'

And during the remainder of the drive
they actually did converse much as usual,
parting at the hall-door without any further
reference to the half-contract into which they
lead entered.

CHAPTEE X.

Alar UNKNOWN PATRON.

The very first thing that Hope did, when she
woke up in the morning and recalled the
events of the previous day, was to take herself
to task for her want of resolution in not
having at once and decidedly refused Mr.
Herbert. It was true that she had not accepted
him ; but she had as good as promised
that she would do so, given certain conditions
which were by no means unlikely to arise.
And of course she could not marry him. She
marvelled at herself for having thought for
one moment that she could.

This was her first impression ; but, while
she was dressing, her mind passed through
various other phases. The thought that this
engagement — if it could be called an engagement

— would enable lier to escape, at least
for a time, and to return to London, work and
liberty, almost made her waver. If she sent
Herbert about his business, what Avould there
be to look forward to and to live for ? Nothing.
But, on the other hand, supposing that
Mr. Tristram should tell her that she could
never hope to rise above mediocrity in her

art ? Could she then go back from her word

I—

and inform her suitor that, all things considered,
she found it impossible to become his
wife ? Well, if she did, he woidd not break
his heart, she supposed. An odd, and yet
not unnatural, feeling of irritation took possession
of her when she remembered how cool
Herbert had been over it all, and how he had
not thought it worth while even to hint that
there could be any question of his being in
love with her. ' Am I so very unattractive,
then ? ' she asked herself.

She was sitting before her looking-glass,
which answered her question in language that
could not be mistaken. And then, all of a
sudden, there flitted before her the vision of a

beautiful youth with dark hair and violet
eyes. What made her remember Captain
Cunningham at that moment ? — and what had
he to do with the subject about which she was
thinking? These were questions which she
would have preferred to shirk ; but, under the
circumstances, she felt that she must not allow
herself to do so. Fortunately for her peace
of mind, pride came to the rescue, and enabled
her to give Captain Cunningham a contemptuous
dismissal. She had only thought
of him because he was so good-looking, and
because he was a sort of embodiment of
youth. If she were ever to fall in love, it
might be with somebody like him ; but he, as
an individual, would certainly never touch her
heart. A mere boy — and a very silly and
wicked sort of boy, too, by all accounts — no !
she was in no danger of cherishing too fond a
recollection of him. Mr. Herbert was at any
rate a man ; in all his words and habits he
was thoroughly manly, and no one need ever
be ashamed of such a husband. However, lie
was not to be her husband. She summed up

with that conclusion and resolved that, immediately
after breakfast, she would take him
aside and let him know of it.

But Fate had decreed that this opportunity
of drawing back should be denied to her.
Dick Herbert, who was less given to vacillation
than she, had formally laid the case
before his host on the preceding evening, and
thus Hope, instead of taking her suitor aside
when breakfast was over, was herself taken
aside by Lady Jane and led into ]mr. Lefroy's
study, where she was embraced and congratulated
before she could get her breath.

Lady Jane was radiant. ' My dear, I am
so very, very glad ! I quite anticipated this,
and I am sure we could not wish to see you
more happily established. Such a charming
place ! And although he has not a London
house at present, there will be no difficulty
about that, so far as money is concerned.
Knot that money signifies nearly as much as
his being such a dear, kind fellow, and so
high-principled. Poor Lady Chatterton ! She
used to try hard to get him for one of her

daughters, and I am afraid she will be inconsolable
now.'

But, Aunt Jane,' interrupted Hope in
dismay, ' join talk as if it were all settled, and
it isn't settled a bit. I had no idea that Mr.
Herbert had spoken to you. Didn't he tell
you that there were conditions ? '

Most senseless conditions, in my opinion,'
observed Mr. Lefroy, who had seated himself
at his writing-table, and who did not seem
quite to share his wife's rosy view of the
situation.

Such as they are, Mr. Herbert agreed to
them,' returned Hope, fixing bayonets to receive
the enemy.

Yes, yes ; we quite understand,' said
Lady Jane soothingly, while she patted her
niece on the shoulder. 'We may think it
rather a pity, but — well, never mind ! No
doubt all will come right in the end ; and if
you are so tired of us that you want to go off
tomorrow, you can go. We shall not prevent
you.'

The fact was that Lady Jane was under

no apprehension of lier niece's turning out to
be a genius, nor did she fear that, even in
that improbable event, there would be any
rupture of the engagement ; for she was a
firm believer m the proverb of Chateau qui
park femme qui ecoute.

Well now, you know, Hope,' said mr.
Lefroy, with his hands in his pockets, * all
this is great bosh ; but as you and Herbert
seem to be of one mind about it, I suppose we
must give in. I beg, however, to say that
we, on our side, have a condition to impose.'

A very little one,' broke in Lady Jane ;
it is only that you come to us in Eaton
Square next month. Xow, my dear, we cannot
hear any objection to that ; we cannot
really. You must allow your uncle to be the
best judge of what is right and proper for his
ward, and I think you will admit that he is
stretching a point in letting you leave us at
all. As for your living apart from us in
London, that is out of the question. It would
create a positive scandal, and I am sure you
Avould regret it afterwards as much as we

should. After all, what difference can it
make to you? You will go on with your
lessons just as before, if you choose, and you
will not be interfered with in any way. Well,
then that is arranged, and we need not bother
your uncle any longer.'

Mr. Lefroy rubbed his hands and looked
thankful, and Hope felt that she could not,
without extreme ungraciousness, refuse to do
as she was told. Nevertheless, she saw that
her feet had become entangled in toils from
which there might be very great difficulty in
extricating them. ' Of course,' she said, turning
to her aunt, ' you won't say a word about
this to anybody.'

Eeally,' answered Lady Jane, ' I don't see
why we should make a secret of it. I hate
mysteries.'

But it is not settled ! — it is not in the
least settled ! ' cried Hope, vehemently. ' It
is only a thing that may come to pass some
day ; and if people are told about it now, it
shall never come to pass. Nobody can force
me to marry.'

Very well, my dear, you need not be so
fierce about it. My lips shall be closed until
you give me leave to open them. Please
remember that poor Mr. Herbert considers
himself quite bound to you, that is all.'

I don't wish him to consider himself
bound in any way,' Hope declared ; and later
in the day she found an opportunity of saying
as much to sir. Herbert himself, who laughed
and replied : ' All right. If I meet with a
more suitable person, I won't fail to let you
know.'

And I am to be free too,' insisted Hope.

That is of course,' he answered. ' I'm
sorry you didn't like my speaking to your
uncle. My only reason for doing so was that
you wouldn't have been allowed to go away
unless I had.'

This was undeniable, and Hope took some
comfort to herself from the thought that she
had at least gained a short spell of liberty.
Being anxious that it should be no shorter
than could be helped, she resolved to take
Lady Jane at her word, wrote a hurried note

to Mrs. Mills, spent the afternoon in packing,
and came downstairs early the next morning,
prepared to catch the first train to London.

She was not suffered to depart without
some remonstrance, and there was a good
deal of kissing and significant whispering to
be gone through in the hall ; but fortunately
the majority of the guests had not yet left
their rooms, so that there were few witnesses
of these demonstrations. Herbert's leave-taking
was characteristic. He sauntered
down the steps as Hope was getting into the
carriage and shook hands with her, saying :
Good-bye, Miss Lefroy, and good luck to
you ! If you should feel inclined to drop mea
line at any time to say how you are getting
on, I shall be much honoured. My address is
Farndon Court, Windsor. Good-bye ! '

And that was the last of Dick Herbert for
the present.

Readers of novels are found among all
sorts and conditions of men. It must not be
suggested that anyone whose eye may chance
to fall upon this page can ever have been

let out of prison ; but lie may possibly remember
to have been liberated from a fine old-fashioned
quarantine station ; ore may, years
ago, have driven array for the holidays from
a private school at which the fare was hard
and the discipline vexatious (there are no
such schools nowadays, it is said) ; or he may
have set foot on shore after eight-and-forty
hours of dire sea-sickness. It is at such times
that one experiences the rare and delightful
sensation of happiness in the present, without
thought for the future. Hope's reflections
during the whole of her journey to London
might have been summarised by a reiterated
ejaculation of ' Heaven be praised ! I am out
of that.'

She was — if anybody Hies to say so — a
little ungrateful to people who were doing
their very best for her, according to their
lights. Lie was wholly out of sympathy with
them ; the restrictions which governed their
lives were new and galling to her ; she could
do justice to them in theory, but she could
not, without misery, dwell with them in her

old home. The little rooms in Henrietta Street
were a great deal more like home to her now.
It was a joy to her to get back to them, to
see Mills' friendly, ugly face again, to sit
down to tea and boiled eggs instead of dinner,
to have to study economy once more, and to
be delivered from the hands of officious maids.
Even when she was sitting over the fire late
at night and was beginning to take in the
fact that tomorrow was at hand, and that tomorrow
would be succeeded by twenty-nine
other morrows, more or less, after which
thraldom must recommence — even then she
could not subdue the elasticity of her spirits.
If we were all logical and reasonable in youth
we might just as well be born old ; in which
case there would be a sad diminution of the
sum of earthly happiness. To Hope at that
moment all things seemed possible. Dick
Herbert and his whimsical offer were left
behind — a long way behind ; her own misgivings
were shaken off. Why should she not
be a second Rosa Bonheur ? Great female
artists do arise every now and then, and,

according to the law of averages, it was about
time for one to make her appearance. That
oft-quoted and terribly misunderstood dictum
about genius being the capacity for taking
infinite pains recurred to her mind and encouraged
her ; she longed for the morning to
come, that lie might hasten to Tristram's
house and set to work with all the power that
she possessed.

The patient !Mills was hurried off at an
earlier hour the next day than was quite
compatible with the comfort of her first-floor
lodgers ; and Tristram, who had been informed
by a note of his pupil's return, was
waiting in his studio to receive her. ' I am
quite well, thank you,' he said, in answer to
her inquiries ; ' also I am extremely busy,
and there is every appearance of our having
a yellow fog this afternoon. We ^\'ill each
begin our daily task at once, if you don't
mind, and we can talk afterwards.'

I am quite ready,' replied Hope, entering
the little room which was reserved for her

Vol. I.

use, and divesting herself of lier hat and
jacket. ' What shall I do ? '

Do ? ' Tristram hesitated for a moment,
looking about him. He was fond of dogs and
always had two or three of them on the premises.
' Here,' he said suddenly, catching up
a little Yorkshire terrier by the scruff of his
neck and tossing him upon a sofa ; ' paint
that. You must abet it done at one sitting-mind.
I don't want a picture or a careful
sketch ; I want a study, more or less finished.
I give you three hours — ample time, if you
know how to set about it.' And, with that,
he left her.

Hope had not had much experience in
depicting animals, nor was she accustomed to
work with rapidity ; but she determined to do
her very utmost to stand the test to which she
was being subjected. She was very eager to
earn a little praise that morning. If Tristram
would only say a few encouraging words it
would be such a help to her and would
seem like a good omen. So she made friends
with the little dog, and induced him to look

at her, and placed Iiini in various positions
which he declined to maintain, and' dashed
with feverish haste into her study. It was a
total failure, and a second and third attempt
pleased her no better ; but the fourth time
something more like achievement rewarded
her efforts.

After the first difficulty had been overcome
she took heart and plied her brushes
swiftly and silently, while Mills darned an
old stocking, murmuring occasionally : ' Poor
Toby ! Poor little feller ! ' to the dog, whose
name was not Toby, and who glanced over
his shoulder with ineffable contempt at the
ridiculous old person who knew no better
than to call him so. Luckily, he felt an
interest in Hope's proceedings, and, when she
spoke to him, would rouse himself from incipient
slumber to gaze inquisitively at her,
with his ears cocked and his head on one
side. It was thus that she caught his likeness.
His wise little face, his bright eyes, looking
out from beneath their shaggy penthouse, the
curiosity that was expressed in his pointed

o 2

ears, the many shades of his long, silky coat
all these she managed to render with a
good deal of skill and fidelity, and she was
debating with herself whether she should let
well alone or add a few finishing touches,
when, to her astonishment, Tristram came into
say that the allotted time was up.

So that is my little tyke, is it ? ' he observed,
examining wdiat she had done, and he
stood looking at it in silence for what seemed
to Hope an interminable time.

'Do you think I have improved?' she
ventured to ask at last.

Yes,' he answered slowly ; ' I think you
have improved. You have more facility than
I gave you credit for — more facility'

This, coming from Tristram, was a good
deal, and he added nothing more, but gazed
abstractedly at the study, drawing his fingers
through his beard. When he turned away
and saw Hope's happy face, he smiled at her
in an odd, rather sad sort of fashion. He
looked as if he were sorry for her, and she
wondered why.

You want to get on very much, don't
you ? ' he asked gently.

Yes ; veri much ! ' she replied.

Well, well ! ' muttered Tristram, and began
to walk up and down the room. Presently
he stopped and shook his broad shoulders, as
if to free them from a weight. ' Come,' said
he cheerfully ; ' you have done a good mornings
work, and I have o't a little bit of stood
news for you as a reward. I have sold two
of your pictures.'

Oh ! have you ? ' exclaimed Hope, catching
her breath.

Yes ; and foot a hundred guineas for the
pair, too. What do you think of that ? '

A hundred guineas ! Hope felt herself
rich beyond the dreams of avarice. ' Is it possible?'
she cried. 'Who could have bought
them ? '

Well, a dealer bought them ; but it was
on commission, as I need hardly say. His
instructions were to buy two of your pictures,
and he wanted to know the price. I said a
hundred guineas, at which he made an ugly

face ; but lie admitted that he was authorised
to expend that sum, and I assured him we
couldn't take less.'

'Mr. Tristram,' said Hope, becoming
grave, as a rather dispiriting thought crossed
her mind ; ' upon your honour — was it you
who bought those pictures ? '

Upon my honour,' answered Tristram,
it was not. Upon my honour, I don't think
them worth the money. And if you don't
know who the purchaser is, I'm sure I do
not.'

I haven't an idea,' said Hope musingly.

She had an idea ; but it was an absurd
one, and she dismissed it. Young officers in
the Guards, with next to no income, do not
throw away a hundred guineas upon the
daubs of an amateur. Besides, wdiy should
Captain Cunningham care to possess any of
her productions ? She never would have supposed
that it could be he, only that she was
unable to think of anyone else who knew that
she was painting with a view to ultimate
profit. Nevertheless, this notion, for all its

absurdity, came back to her more than once
in the course of the afternoon and evening ;
and she only got rid of it at last hj reminding
herself that Cunningham was a man whom
she could never like, and that, if he bought
pictures at all, it was probably to present
them to little Mrs. Pierpoint.

CHAPTEE XL

HOPE IS TOLD THE TRUTH.

If Hope had felt any overpowering desire to
learn the name of the man who had so rashly
expended a hundred guineas upon two carefully
executed but not very original works of
art, she might easily have asked Tristram to
give her the address of the picture-dealer and
applied to that intermediary for the desired
information. This course did, indeed, suggest
itself to her ; but, upon second thoughts, she
decided not to adopt it. People who insist
upon knowing too much often have reason to
repent of their curiosity ; and what, after all,
did it signify? The important matter was
that she had already managed to earn a round
sum of money ; that would be something to
tell her uncle when he came up to London.

In the meantime, she took advantage of her
leisure to work unremittingly both in Tristram's
studio and at home.

Tristram, after the first day, did not praise
her much : but, on the other hand, she
fancied that he watched her with greater
interest and treated her aspirations more
seriously than he had done in the autumn.
His method with her had the appearance of
being a little capricious. He seldom allowed
her to finish anything that lie had begun,
but would push it aside, saying : ' There's
enough of that ; try something else.' Sometimes
he would make one of his models sit to
her in an attitude which would have bothered
Michelangelo himself; sometimes he would
order her to produce an effect of light and
shade which even his own audacity might
have hesitated to undertake. He never ^dve
her anything easy to do and never seemed to
care much about her drawing being defective.
By degrees she began to understand what it
was that he was trying to discover ; and
though this made her tremble — for she could

not help knowing that the originality Avliich
he sought Alas not in her — yet her courage
rose even Avliile she trembled and while the
immense difficulties of art grew more apparent
to her. To recognise a difficulty is surely a
step, though it be but a small one, towards
overcoming it.

The days flew by and Hope's holiday of
hard labour seemed scarcely to have begun
when it was over. It was, in fact, somewhat
curtailed by the arrival of her relations in
Eaton Square at a date rather earlier than
that which they had fixed upon. Parliament
met in the first days of February, and, as an
important amendment was moved to the
Address, it was necessary that Mr. Lefroy
should be in his place to swell the numerically
feeble ranks of the Opposition. His
voice, likewise, was placed at the service of
his party and the country for a few minutes,
when he rose, with an amiable smile, to say
that the wild inconsistencies of the right
honourable gentleman at the head of the
Government had now, he should imagine.

reached their culminating point. Further,
that he (Mr. Lefroy) happened to know as a
fact that a very large section of the right
honourable gentleman's followers were aghast
simply aghast — at the condition of public
affairs, and would certainly never give him
another vote if they had the courage to obey
their consciences.

This declaration, which brought about — as
it was probably designed to do — a very pretty
row at the time. Alas not productive of serious
consequences ; and, so far as any benefit to
the Conservative cause was concerned, ]mr.
Lefroy might, perhaps, as well have remained
quietly at Helston Abbey. But his return to
London, if it failed to check the headlong
career of the Ministry, was quite effectual in
disturbing that of his niece. Hope, after she
had bidden a regretful farewell to Henrietta
Street and Jiad reported herself, in accordance
with instructions, in Eaton Square, soon perceived
that her studies could only be continued
in the face of persistent and almost
insurmountable obstacles. Although she was

nominally allowed to take lier breakfast at
any hour that suited her, she could not
practically get it before ten o'clock ; and
immediately afterwards her cousins were wont
to claim her services.

'You might be good-natured and come to
the dressmaker's with me,' Alice would say.
You have all your life to paint pictures in,
and I have only a few weeks in ivhich to provide
myself with a stock of decent apparel.'

Lady Jane, too, showed an alarming tendency
to assume that all the required concessions
had now been made, and that it only
remained to summon Mr. Herbert up from
the country. When Hope assured her that
she was labouring under a total misapprehension
of the case, lie only smiled indulgently
and said : ' Well, he must come up for Alice's
wedding, at any rate, and then you and he
can talk matters over. But for your own
sake, I hope you won't go on much longer
like this. Everybody is talking about it.'

Do you mean to say,' exclaimed Hope in

dismay, ' that you have told anybody that weare
eiif^aaed ? '

Certainly not. How could you think
such a thing of me after my promise to you ?
Naturally people noticed that you were always
together at Helston, and naturally I have been
asked questions about it ; but I have always
replied that there was no engagement yet.'

Yet ! ' Hope groaned and turned away.
It was evidently useless to remonstrate with
her aunt.

On the third day after her change of
quarters a number of people came to dinner,
amongst whom was a certain Mr. Francis :
A great friend of Dick Herbert's,' Lady Jane
whispered to her ; • he is going to take you
in to dinner, and I hope you will make yourself
agreeable to him, because he is by way of
being extra fastidious.'

The inference that she was about to be
submitted to Mr. Francis for approval was not
calculated to prepossess Hope in favour of
that gentleman ; nor was she particularly
taken with the look of him when he was introduced

to her. He was a small, wiry, alert
man, with bright brown eyes and dark hair
and beard, in which last a white thread or two
were distinguishable here and there. Hope
fancied that he was mentally appraising her,
and did not trouble herself to respond to his
advances with any cordiality. He was not,
however, discouraged by her coldness, and
after a time she became interested in him, in
spite of herself. He talked very pleasantly ;
he seemed to know everybody, to have been
everywhere, and to have tried his hand at all
sorts of occupations and amusements. Before
dinner was half over Hope had found out that
he had been in Parliament, but had accepted
the Chiltern Hundreds, experience having
forced him, as he said, to abandon so many of
the advanced ideas with which he had started
that he had thought it best to retire from
political life while he had still a few illusions
left. He appeared to knows a good deal about
art ; he had at one time been war correspondent
to one of the chief daily papers ; he
had accompanied a yachting expedition to the

polar regions, and tlicre was no variety of
sport with wliicli lie was not familiar.

'It was Dick Herbert who first introduced
me to the big game,' lie remarked. 'You
know him, I believe ? And I hope you like
him ; because, if you don't, we won't talk
about him.'

Hope would much have preferred not to
talk about him ; but honesty compelled her
to admit that she liked him. and her iieio-h-
your went on :

I shall never be such a eliot as Herbert ;
but I'm respectable enough to be trusted on
occasions when it wouldn't be altogether safe
to miss ; and he and I have had many a o-ood
month together in India and Abyssinia. Dick
Herbert is, without any exception, the best-tempered
fellow that I know. I never saw
him put out, and I never heard him grumble.'

I am not sure that I admire that extreme
good-nature,' Hope was provoked into sayings
course, if one does not care particularly
about anything or anybody, one is not likely
to be put out.'

Mr. Francis looked annoyed. ' You don't
know much of Dick Herbert, evidently,' he
remarked.

As he was silent for several minutes after
this, Hope flattered herself that she had caused
him to drop the subject ; but presently he
took her terribly aback by turning round in
]his chair so as to face her, and saying : ' Miss
Lefroy, I wish you Avould tell me something.
Perhaps it is rather impertinent of me to ask ;
but am I right in suspecting that Herbert is
going to be married ? '

'I — I — don't know,' answered Hope,
faintly. But she recovered herself in a minute
and added : ' To the best of my belief he is
not engaged to anybody.'

'Oh, I see — only going to be. Well, I'm
sorry. I hope you will excuse my saying that
I'm sorry. I don't speak from a selfish point
of view, for I should be glad to see Herbert
married, though I suppose I may expect to
lose a good friend when the event comes off;
but there are very few women good enough
for him, and still fewer who would be likely

to suit him. I wonder whether it is too late
to try and stop this.'

Hope hardly knew how to answer. As no
direct reference had been made to herself, she
thought it best to assume that she was not
alluded to, and said :

Xot in the least too late, I should think.
As I told you, I don't believe !Mr. Herbert is
enoracred at all.'

Ah, but you think he will be before long,
and so does Lady Jane ; she gave me to understand
as much. Besides, he wouldn't have
stayed all that time at your uncle's without a
reason. As a general thing he hates staying
in other people's houses, unless it is for a few
days' shooting. You are quite mistaken in
supposing that Herbert doesn't care about
anything or anybody. He cares a good deal
more than most people, and shows it a good
deal less, that is all. He is the very last man
in the world who ouo-ht to make such a marriage
as I am pretty sure that this would
be. His ife must be able to enter into his
ways, otherwise she will spoil his life, and

Vol. I. P

very likely her own into the bargain — if that
signifies.'

possibly it might signify to her,' remarked
Hope. ' Do you mean that lie should be able
to shoot lions and tigers ? '

'No,' answered Mr. Francis, rather tartly,
I don't. I mean that she ought to be as
unselfish and kindhearted as he is ; and, to
speak plainly, I doubt whether the lady in
question is remarkable for unselfishness.'

Are you sure that you know much about
her ? ' inquired Hope.

I am not very well acquainted with her,
certainly ; but some people are easily classified.
No doubt she would turn out a very
fair, average empty-headed member of society
if she were mated with one of her own species ;
but most assuredly she is not fit to black Dick
Herbert's boots. I ought to apologise for my
plain language ; but I hate to think of poor
Herbert being so thrown away.'

Pray don't apologise, Mr. Francis,' said
Hope, who was excusably indignant. ' I daresay
it will do me good to have heard what is

the impression that I produce upon a total
stranger. But I think you are needlessly
alarmed on your friend's account. Both he
and I are perfectly free, as it happens, and if
you will only repeat some of the amiable
things that you have been saying about me to
him, no doubt he will give up all idea of
throwing himself away upon me.'

Hope was too angry to turn her eyes towards
her neighbour. Had she done so, she
would have been privileged to behold a man
of the world, an ex-Member of Parliament,
and an intrepid hunter, looking as great a fool
as it is possible for any mortal to look.

Good gracious ! ' he exclaimed, in accents
of heartfelt distress ; ' what a frightful mistake
I have made ! I never for a moment supposed
that you were the lady ; I thought, of
course, it was your cousin. It was Lady Jane
who misled me ; she was so oracular about it.
I am afraid you will never forgive me. Miss
Lefroy.'

Hope could have forgiven him more easily
if she could have pardoned herself. How

could lie have been so foolish as to let out
the very thing that she was most anxious to
conceal ! How could she have supposed that
Mr. Francis, or any other casual acquaintance,
would tell her to her face that she was empty-headed
and selfish !

The best plan is to say no more about it
she answered, not over-graciously. ' It is a
great pity that Aunt Jane cannot keep anything
to herself. I am sorry you have such a
bad opinion of poor Gertrude. But, perhaps,
after all, you only meant that you did not
wish your friend to marry anybody.'

And then she turned away from him and
began to talk to an old gentleman who was
seated on the other side of her.

Hope had no further conversation with
Mr. Francis that evening ; but his words remained
in her mind and rankled there. If
what he had said applied to Gertrude, it applied
with quite equal force to herself; and
after everybody had gone away she summoned
up all her courage, drew her aunt into one of
the empty rooms, and said : ' Aunt Jane, I

want to tell you that I have quite made up
my mind not to marry ^Mr. Herbert.'

Poor Lady Jane fairly lost patience. ' It
appears to me, Hope she exclaimed, ' that
there is only one thing about which you have
made up your mind, and that is to cause as
much distress as you can to everybody. I
shall not interfere. When Dick Herbert
comes you and he must settle it between you.
But I must say that for a girl who professes
such extreme reluctance to be dependent upon
her relations you are singularly unwilling to
take an excellent opportunity of relieving
them from all responsibility for your vagaries.'

And with that Lady Jane clutched her
bedroom candlestick, and marched majestically
upstairs.

The good lady — for she was really good
and wished no harm to any living creature —
was sorry afterwards that she had spoken so
sharply; but she did not think it necessary to
retract her words, nor, perhaps, even if she
had done so, would her niece have been able
to forget them.

Early the next day Hope escaped to Tristram's
studio. The maid who had been told
oiF to accompany her since her removal to
Eaton Square could not be spared that morning,
she was informed ; so she broke through
regulations for once, and, without saying a
word to anybody, went off alone. But when
she reached her destination she found that
she could do nothing. Her trembling fingers
refused to obey her, and presently she sank
down upon a chair, saying : ' It is no good ; I
am too tired.'

What is the matter with you ? ' asked
Tristram, who had stationed himself beside
her easel.

Hope was very nearly bursting into tears
outright. However, she swallowed down the
lump in her throat, and answered : ' Nothing
is the matter — at least, everything is the
matter. Mr. Tristram, I can't bear it any
longer ; I must be put out of my pain. I am
sure you can tell me now. Is there any
chance ? '

Tristram's long, bony fingers twisted themselves

into his beard. He gazed at his questioner,
and made no articulate reply ; but
every second of silence was a reply to her,
falling like lead upon her heart.

Xo,' he burst out roudilv at last ; ' there
is no chance.' Then he spun round on his
heels, walked away to the window, and remained
there, looking out at the grey sky and
the bare, blackened trees.

Probably there are few people who have
not, at one time or another, received some
such answer as this. We have waited, perhaps,
through long weeks, hoping against
hope, for news of the missing ship ; we have
scanned the doctor's face, it may be, day after
day, not daring to put into words the question
that has been trembling upon our Hps. And
then, all of a sudden, the blow falls. It is an
odd sensation, and is seldom what we expected
it to be. The worst has happened that can
happen. It is all over ; the very suffering
itself is over, only the memory of it remaining.
Whether we know it or not, the recuperative
forces of nature set to work instantly to console

us, and what people call despair is very
often only another word for peace. The first
thing that Hope was conscious of, after a
minute of dizziness and bewilderment, was
that she was very sorry for the good friend
who had been forced to deal so cruelly with
her.

'Never mind,' she said, 'you have done
your best.'

That great baby Tristram turned to her
with his features distorted into a grotesque
grimace and tears in his eyes. He began to
speak loudly and hurriedly, his words jostling
one another. ' I had to tell you — what could
I say ? You have not genius, and without
genius you cannot — in your position — take
up Art as a trade. It was better that you
should be told. I know — don't trouble to
explain — I understand it all. You have had
a dream, and it can't come true. Heaven
help us ! we all have dreams, and all have to
wake out of them, some in one way, some in
another. What a world wee live in ! — and
what helpless wretches we are ! All this because

a man as rich as Croesus takes it into
his head one day to buy a few shares in an
infernal unlimited bank ! If anyone wants
proof of the intervention of Providence, there
it is for him. Don't tell me that these things

o

happen by blind chance. Why they should
ever happen at all — but what is the good of
talking ? Courage ! courage ! don't let that
devil of a thing that they call life beat you.
Fifjht it out. Look at me : I have been
through worse trouble than you have known
or ever vriU know, I trust ; and yet here I
am, alive and well and happy — yes, happy, in
spite of all. I have felt like cutting my
throat more than once ; there have been days
when I thought I could not hold out any
longer, and must knock under. Even when
the worst was over, I had to contend against
poverty and stupidity and the malevolence of
those cursed critics ' He went on confusedly
referring to the miseries of his past
life, half forgetting his hearer's troubles in the
remembrance of his own ; but that he could
not help : it was his nature to view the world

and all events that took place therein subjectively.


After a time he recollected himself, grew
calmer, and sat down beside the girl, taking
both her listless hands in this strong ones.
Come now, Miss Hope,' lie said ; ' we must
not make a tragedy out of this. We don't
know what your life might have been like if
you had been able to make what you wished
of it ; it isn't certain that it would have been
happy. I think a man who has creative
power, and who feels in him the love of
beauty, cannot be miserable ; but I don't
know about women ; their wants are not the
same as ours. Just now, what you are thinking
of is the irksomeness of having to live
with people who don't suit you ; but that will
not last for ever. Perhaps it may come to
an end very soon.'

Yes, perhaps,' assented Hope. Presently
she added : ' Mr. Tristram, will you advise
me what to do ? You have always been so
kind, and I have no one else to consult, except
people who can't give an unprejudiced

opinion.' And, without further preface, she
related to him the history of Herbert's ' offer
and of her provisional acceptance of it.

Tristram heard her out, making no comment,
and when she had finished said : ' I
think I would rather not advise you.'

I am not bound to follow your advice,'
answered Hope, smiling faintly. • Let me at
least know what you think.'

Well, then I will say to you what I
should say to my own daughter, if I had one.
I know something of Mr. Herbert, and all
that I know of him is in his favour. He is
no long-er a very vouno- man : he has been
rich and his own master from his boyhood,
and he has never made a fool of himself in
any way. From what you tell me, and from
what I have heard from others, I should
think that he would be a kind husband.
There is no reason why you should not marry
him, and every reason why you should,
except one. My belief is that love — in the
sense of what is called being in love — is a
curse rather than a blessing the best, it

promotes selfishness, and at the worst, it
brings about jealousies and broken hearts and
all kinds of unhappiness. Marriages are
made without any regard to it in France, and
I never could see that French couples were at
all less attached to one another than English
couples. Indeed, family ties are far stronger
with them than with us. But I know perfectly
well that all this doesn't and can't convince
you. Nature has the same method
with all young creatures, and an old fellow's
experience has no chance against her. I am
afraid I cannot be of much service to you in
this matter.'

But it comes to this,' said Hope, after
pondering for awhile, ' that you do advise me
to marry Mr. Herbert.'

Yes, I won't shirk the responsibility ; it
is what I should advise. But I may be quite
wrong. My mind is warped — I have suffered
too much '

He rose and took a turn or two up and
down the room. ' One thing,' he said, ' I
may tell you, for your comfort; though you

have not genius, you have talent, and plenty
of it. Painting will always be a resource and
a consolation to you, whatever happens.
Nothing can rob you of that.'

But perhaps this seemed rather cold comfort
to Hope, who made no rejoinder while
she put on her hat and jacket.

Tristram accompanied her to the outer
door and held her hand for a minute, saying
God bless you ! ' when she bade him goodbye.
It was tacitly understood between them
that she would return no more to the studio
in which she had spent so many happy, sanguine
hours.

o

CHAPTER XII

LADY JAIs'E IS MADE Happy.

The wedding of Lord Middleborough, an
event of some magnitude in its way, took
place immediately after Easter. The ceremony,
in accordance with a custom recently
introduced, was performed in the afternoon,
and was graced by the presence of as many
dukes, duchesses, cabinet ministers, ex-cabinet
ministers, foreign ambassadors, and
social celebrities as the eye of a fond mother
could wish to rest upon. So large was the
throng of invited guests that, when these had
been marshalled to their places, and the
claims of the representatives of the press had
been attended to, there was not much room
left for the British public, which had assembled
in o^reat force, as it always does at such

times, and which, for the most part, had to
content itself with waiting outside in a bitter
east wind and admiring the gay clothing of
the ladies, as they hurried across the strip of
red carpet from their carriages to the church.
The bride, a rather pretty little blue-eyed
woman, was honoured by a general murmur
of approbation ; the bridesmaids also were
pronounced worthy, both in person and in
costume, of the occasion ; but perhaps the
most unequivocal success of the day was
obtained by the tall, pale girl, dressed in
French grey, who, if she had been listening,
might have heard herself described by an
appreciative butcher's-boy as ' a ideal beauty '
which expression of opinion was instantly
confirmed by the bystanders. Nor was it
only among the plebeian herd upon the pavement
that the appearance of this lady caused
a momentary sensation. The more critical
assemblage within the building did not fail
to remark her delicate, high-bred features,
the graceful carriage of her head, and her
large and rather sorrowful grey eyes. The

majority, not knowing who she was, whispered
inquiries about her, and those who did know
replied : ' Oh, that is Miss Lefroy, the daughter
of the late man. Lost a huge fortune in the
Central Pendant Bank smash,' which generally
elicited a murmur of ' Poor thing ! no
wonder she looks so sad.'

A few well-informed persons mentioned a
rumour that she was about to be married to
that queer fellow, Dick Herbert ' ; and this
greatly increased the curiosity with which she
was regarded ; for women of all ranks, ages,
and dispositions are interested in a marriage,
and especial interest would attach to that of
Dick Herbert — not so much because he was a
queer fellow,' as because he was so rich, and
had been for such a number of years an
ostensible bachelor, that nine people out often
believed him to have a wife somewhere
who was not presentable.

Hope was entirely unconscious of being
noticed or discussed, and even if she had
heard what was being said about her she
would not have cared much. The days Avhen

the coupling of her name with Herbert's
would have brought a flush of anger into her
cheeks were past and gone ; it was very likely
more Hkely than not, now — that her name
would be permanently coupled with his. No
further direct pressure had been brought to
bear upon her either by her uncle or by Lady
Jane ; but in a hundred little ways the conviction
had been brought home to her that, if
she threw away this chance, the reproaches
heaped upon her would be greater than she
would be able to bear. Since Tristram had
swept away her dream of life into space, she
had grown apathetic about the future, which
seemed to hold no golden promises for her ;
she had not definitely decided what she would
do ; but she knew very well that Herbert
would say something to her that day, and she
was disposed to abide by his judgment, whatever
it might be. She could see him on the
opposite side of the church, towering a head
above his neighbours ; she watched him Awhile
the choir sang ' The voice that breathed o'er
Eden,' and while the Bishop, assisted by his
Vol. I. Q

satellites, proceeded with the form of words
which was to convert Alice Lefroy into a
viscountess. Once their eyes met, and he
smiled. He had a kindly, pleasant, honest
sort of face. ' I don't think he will beat meat
all events,' Hope said to herself, with something
between an incipient laugh and a sob in
her throat.

Well, it would soon be over now ; she
would soon knoAV her fate; and it would be
something to have done with indecision.
Time, plodding on with even steps, brought
her nearer and nearer to the moment which
she half dreaded and half wished for. The
ceremony was concluded ; the crowd — not
quite so large a one as had been present at
the church — repaired to Eaton Square to
inspect the wedding presents, and gradually
melted away ; the bride and bridegroom,
being possessed of three large houses of their
own, drove off to spend the honeymoon in one
belonging to a relative, which had been lent
them for that purpose ; Hope was standing
alone in a small morning-room, looking out of

the window and waiting for the sound of an
approaching footstep, which she expected
every instant to hear.

She had already shaken hands with Herbert,
but only a few words had passed between
there, and it was hardly to be supposed that
he would go away without a longer interview.
He did not, however, seem inclined to hurry
himself, and Hope was rather angry with him
for keeping her waiting. She could hear
voices and laughter downstairs, where, no
doubt, he was engaged in conversation with
the rest of the family, and she could fancy it
all — !Mr. Lefroy rubbing his hands and saying,
Thank goodness that is over ! ' — Gertrude
reporting some acrimonious speech of Lady
Chatterton's ; Lady Jane smiling contentedly,
and exclaiming, all of a sudden : • Dear me !
where can Hope be ? I wish you would go
and see what has become of her, Dick ' — and
then a slow, deliberate step mounting the
stairs. Oh, why didn't they make haste and
get it all ended !

In reality, her suspense was not prolonged

u, 2

for more than five minutes or so. She heard
the door opened and shut ; someone entered
the room and advanced until lie was close to
her elbow, and then, just for a second, a wild
notion took possession of her. Suppose it
should not be he? Suppose it should be —
somebody else?

But of course it was he ; and it was his
voice that was saying cheerfully : ' Well, jow
didn't write to me, after all.'

'I had nothing to Avrite about,' answered
Hope, still looking out of the window. Her
hands were cold and damp, a sudden access
of nervousness had come upon her, and she
did not venture to look at him.

But he showed no consciousness of her
distress. ' I thought,' he said, ' that perhaps
you would let me know how you were getting
on. Is Mr. Tristram encouraging ? '

Hope turned round and dropped into the
nearest chair. 'No,' she answered; 'I have
not got on at all ; I never shall get on now.
Haven't you heard ? Didn't they tell you?'
Then, recollecting herself, ' But of course they

could not. I did not mention it to them, and
no one has ever asked me about it. I suppose
they knew all along that I should fail.'

She glanced at him to see whether he
showed any sign of surprise, or pleasure or
regret ; but his face expressed nothing at all.

Isn't it rather too soon to despair ? ' was
this only' comment.

Mr. Tristram says not. He told me that
I had no chance whatever.'

What a brute ! '

He is the best friend that I have in the
world. I asked him to tell me the truth, and
I was very glad that he told it me without
phrases.'

And what are you going to do now ? '
Herbert asked, after a pause.

I don't know,' answered Hope.

Presently she glanced up at him again and
saw that he Alas sorry for her. He certainly
looked very kind ; but it is never quite
pleasant to be pitied. ' Since I can't have
what I want, I must do without it, that is all,'
she remarked rather brusquely.

There was nothing to be urged against
so self-evident a proposition ; but Herbert
was able to put forward another equally indisputable.
' When one has got what one
wants, one doesn't always like it,' he observed.
And, obtaining no response, he went on :
Now, about the alternative suggestion that
I made to you — have you thought any more
of it?'

Of course I have thought of it,' Hope
answered slowly.

And you don't much fancy it ? '

I hardly know what to say. I can't feel
about marriage as you and everybody else
seem to feel. Mr. Herbert, do you think we
ought to marry, not caring in the least for one
another ? '

The case is not quite so bad as that, is
it ? Our understanding was that it wouldn't
be a love-match. Surely that doesn't exclude
affection.'

That passing sensation of wonder and resentment
which Hope had felt once before
swept over her again, as she raised her eyes

to his frank, good-tempered face. She did
not wish him to be in love with ]her : but at
the same time it was a little strange and a
little unflattering that he should be so entirely
free from any idea of such a thing. ' It does
not exclude affection, of course,' she agreed ;
only sometimes I am afraid — but perhaps I
may be mistaken. If you are content to have
it so, I am.'

That's all right ; then we'll consider it
settled,' said he, with a cheerful air of relief.
It won't be my fault if you ever repent of
your bargain. I shall remember my promise :
you will have your own way and live your
own life, and whenever you find me a bore
you wil only have to say so, and I'll take
myself off. I'm always ready to book my
passage for the other side of the world at a
moment's notice. Do you like yachting ? '

Hope shook her head. ' I hate the sea.'

Well, I love it ; so that you can count
upon being rid of me for a good part of the
summer, at all events.'

And Mr. Francis will keep you company,

I suppose said Hope, laughing a little, though
she did not feel very merry. ' Do you know
that I met your friend Mr. Francis a short
time ago ? He gave me quite a new view of
your character.'

Oh, he did, did he ? '

Yes ; he had heard a report that you
were going to be married, and he was very
much annoyed and rather rude about it. He
said you were the last man in the world who
ought to make a marriage of convenience,
that nobody was good enough for you, and
that unless your wife could share your tastes
does that mean taking long cruises without
being sea-sick ? — she would spoil your life.'

'Francis is an ass,' remarked Herbert
placidly.

He did not strike me as being that.'

He is though — a clever ass ; there are
lots of them about. I am a stupid ass if you
like ; but I do know what I want.'

Why should you want this ? ' exclaimed
Hope. ' I cannot understand why you should
want it ! '

I thought I had told you down at Hel-son.
But, never mid, I am not afraid of
the result.'

Hope, however, was a good deal afraid.
She got up and moved restlessly about the
room. All her life long, until recently, she
had been accustomed to be loved ; she was
not sure of herself and did not know ^vhat
she might become if in future she was only to
be tolerated. Perhaps it was not very dignified
; but an impulse which she could not
resist prompted her to pause suddenly beside
the man who — whether he admitted it or
not — must control her destiny. ' You will
be good to me, won't you ? ' she murmured
appealingly.

What could anyone say or do in answer
to such a question ? Herbert rose and took
possession of her hands. ' My dear,' he said
kindly, ' you may trust me for that.' And
then he bent down and kissed her forehead.

If he thought such an action natural and
permissible under the circumstances, it was
because he really knew very little of the

queer nature of women. Hope started away
from him, flushing painfully.

You must not do that 1 ' she cried, with
tears in her voice. ' There must be nothing
nothing of that kind. I thought at least
we were to have no pretence ! '

Herbert looked considerably crestfallen,
and a tinge of colour found its way also into
his sunburnt cheek. ' I beg your pardon,' he
said, humbly ; ' I will not offend you in that
way again. I fancied '

You fancied that it was the proper thing
to do,' she interrupted, ' but it is not ; and

your having fancied so only shows Oh, I

don't think I can marry you ! I don't think
I can ! ' she concluded, sinking down into her
chair again.

Yet even while she said this she felt that
she had gone too far now to recede, and he
had not much difficulty in making his peace
with her. Only she was very urgent upon
the point of there being no ' make-behave '
between them, and as to this he declared
himself to be quite of one mind with her.

You kno^v, I always told you that iu my
opinion the oue important thug is to start
fair,' he said. * If we are only honest with
one another we are sure to u'et on all riofht.
I want you, if you will, to tell me everything,
without bothering yourself to consider whether
it will hurt my feelings or not. I always like
to hear the truth, pleasant or unpleasant.'

I think I may promise that,' Hope answered
meditatively. ' I have told you nothing
but the truth, so far ; you know all that there
is to know about me. And I will try not to
spoil your life,' she added, with a slight smile.

Xo fear of that. We thoroughly understand
one another now. 'We are not lovers ;
we are two friends who are going to set up
house together, isn't that it ? '

Yes ; that is it,' replied Hope.

And, having committed themselves to the
above absurd and utterly impracticable scheme
of existence, these two fools went downstairs's
to make it known, being well aware that
only the warmest congratulations awaited the
announcement of their folly.

Nothing, indeed, could have been more
genuine or more heartily expressed than the
contentment of Mr. Lefroy and Lady Jane.
The cloud which had arisen of late between
them and their niece was at once and for ever
dispelled ; Herbert, who had to catch a train,
soon went away; and hardly had the door
closed behind him before Lady Jane began to
contemplate arrangements for a second matrimonial
function.

It can hardly take place before the end
of the season,' she said. ' There will be the
trousseau to be provided, and I should think
most likely he will want to re-furnish Pardon.
I haven't seen the place for a long time ;
but when I was there last it looked as if it
wanted a great deal doing to it. I wonder
whether his sister will go on living there. I
suppose she must ; and yet I am not sure that
she will, for she is an independent sort of girl,
and she has money of her own. No doubt
she will marry before long. Somebody said
something about that Cunningham boy having
paid her a good deal of attention. It would

be a good match for him ; but I don't
know '

Oh, Aunt Jane,' interrupted Hope, ' do
let us try to talk about anything in the world
for the next few months except marrying and
giving in marriage ! '

But that was the last faint symptom of
revolt that escaped lier. As the days went
on she became reconciled to her lot, and saw
that it might have been a worse one. Happiness,
lie kept on saying to herself, is not
everything ; and, besides, there are many
kids of happiness. One kind, certainly,
might be derived from having satisfied everybody.
When one has fought and has been
beaten, it is a consolation to be kindly and
generously treated by the conquerors ; and on
this score Hope had no cause for complaint.
She might, had lie been so minded, have
gone to Tristram's studio every day now, and
Lady Jane's maid would never have been too
busy to accompany her ; her uncle troubled
himself more than once to gratify her love
of art by taking her to one of the picture

galleries ; later aunt never pressed her to do
anything that she did not like, nor quarrelled
with her for declining to go out into the world.
These may not have been very important
concessions, but, such as they were, she was
grateful for them. She recognised the fact
that she had reached the end of a chapter in
her life, and appreciated the consideration
which allowed her to pause before opening a
fresh one.

CHAPTEE Xin.

JACOB STILES.

It can hardly be expected that the reader
will recollect a passing allusion once made by
]mr. Herbert to a certain young protege of his
named Jacob Stiles. The fact is that 'Mr.
Herbert was not very fond of alluding to this
youth, whose benefactor he had been, having
reasons for keeping silence about him besides
those which modesty must always impose upon
the truly charitable.

Jacob Stiles, as his name (which was a
source of deep grief to him) almost seemed
to imply, was an object of charity, and since
this early childhood had never been anything
else. It had come to pass that, as Dick
Herbert was riding homewards one autumn
evening shortly after he had attained his

majority — and consequently some fifteen years
before the date of the present narrative — his
path was abruptly stopped by a diminutive
urchin, who piped out : ' Oh, if you please, sir,
father said I was to art you what's won the
Leger.' Dick, then, as always, a man of few
words, gave the desired information, glanced
curiously at his ragged, black-eyed little
questioner, and rode on. The incident might
have escaped his memory, had not the result
of that particular St. Leger brought about a
tragic occurrence of which he, in common
with the rest of the neighbourhood, was
speedily informed. This was the suicide of
one Stiles, a stranger in those parts, who had
recently been taken as a rough-rider into the
employment of a local horse-dealer, and who
was found hanging* in his master's stables on
the morning after the race, with the following
brief confession in a pocket of his coat :
It's the Leger as done it. I don't want no
more of this life. Will some kind friend
please to save my poor little lad from the
works ? '

This appeal found its ^vay to the somewhat
soft heart of Dick Herbert. He sought
out the boy, found him in one of the cottages
in the village, recognised him as the same
whom he had encountered on the previous
evening, carried him off to Farndon Court to
be washed, fed, and comforted, and retained
him there with a view to discovering, as he
said, ' what could be made of him.' A great
many things might have been made of him,
for he proved to be one of the sharpest boys
that ever was known, but perhaps a judicious
person, remembering the proverb about silk
purses and sows' ears, would have reflected
that there were certain things into which he
could not possibly be turned. Dick Herbert
was only twenty-one at that time, and was not
quite as judicious as he subsequently became.
He was delighted with the little fellow's
shrewd replies to his questions ; he was still
more delighted to see with what tenacity that
atom could stick to a horse ; and when he
discovered that Jacob, in addition to his other
talents, could draw with a precision and spirit

Vol. I. E

amazing in one of such tender years, he concluded
that, if ever there was a case in which
a thorough education would be a boon worth
bestowing, it was here.

This was all very well, but to remove the
boy entirely out of the station to which he
had been born was another affair. To do Dick
justice, he had at first no intention of falling
into any such error. He proposed to have his
protege educated, and then to give him a start
in whatever trade he mi^^ht seem to be best
fitted for. But there were difficulties in the
way of carrying out this sensible programme.
Jacob learnt with surprising rapidity ; in
everything that he undertook he excelled ; ashe
grew older he manifested a decided dislike
to associating with the servants, who, on their
side, cordially reciprocated his sentiments.
Thus it came about that, dien he was at
Farndon for the holidays, he spent most of his
time in the company of his patron (who preferred
not to be called his master), and was
made a great deal of by his patron's bachelor
friends.

Farndon Court was then a house in which
only bachelors and married men on leave of
absence were to be met ; for old Mrs. Herbert,
who was still alive, dwelt at a watering-place
in the West of England, the climate of Berkshire
not agreeing With her health. One may
conjecture that had any lady presided over
Dick's household that clever young outcast,
Jacob Stiles, would not have been permitted
to dine A^ath his betters, and adjourn to the
billiard-room or the smoking-room with them
later in the evening. But if the lad got any
harm from such associations it was not apparent
upon the surface. His schoolmasters
gave glowing reports of him ; his career was
decided upon ; he was in due time to become
an artist, and there was every ground for
behevincf that he would also become a successful
one. Whence he derived his pictorial
skill was a mystery of which his defective
pedigree could afford no solution ; but a very
simple application of the law of inheritance
sufficed to account for his great love and
knowledge of horses ; and it must be owned

b2

that this endeared him to Dick more than all
his other gifts put together. Mr. Herbert
can hardly be said to have been at any time
upon the turf; but he usually had one or two
animals in training, and he kept a few brood-mares
with a view to raising thoroughbred
stock. Now Jacob's eye for a horse was
nothing short of marvellous. Not only was
his opinion invaluable as regarded the purchase
of yearlings, but he could tell, almost
at a glance, whether a foal would ever come
to anything or not. ' Confound the boy ! he
can't make a mistake ! ' Dick would exclaim,
admiringly.

He himself, however, was quite capable of
making mistakes, and he made a very serious
one when he fell into the habit of taking this
admirable judge with him to the principal
race-meetings. It was an innocent pleasure,
Dick thought ; and in his case it certainly
was so. He did not bet, and was careful to
warn his young companion solemnly against
that fatal practice. Notwithstanding this admonition,
Jacob did bet — possibly that, too,

was a damnosa hereditary which it was hard
for him to resist — and the worst of it was
that he lead to bet on the sly. Unluckily for
him his ventures were not only successful but
were never found out ; this form of gambling
became a passion with him, and ]mr. Herbert's
prolonged absences from home afforded him
opportunities of indulging in it by which
he was not slow to profit. His conscience
did not fail to reproach him for so doing ;
but self-reproach is seldom of much value asa
curb.

When Jacob was nineteen years of age,
Nemesis, in the shape of a disastrous Ascot
week, overtook him, in company with many
others of higher social position. His money
was all spent ; settling-day was near, and he
was at his wits' end. One morning: he saw
Dick Herbert's cheque-book lying upon the
library table ; he hastily tore a scrap of paper
out of it and scribbled thereon an imitation of
that imprudent gentleman's signature which
would have been more exact if his fingers had
not trembled so much. How could he have

supposed that so foolish a fraud would escape
detection ? He may have counted upon Dick's
well-known carelessness in money-matters ;
but it is more likely that he yielded to temptation
in one of those moments of terror and
bewilderment which are taken into consideration
by merciful jurymen when they return a
verdict of ' suicide while in an unsound state
of mind.' He took the cheque into Windsor,
had it cashed by a clerk, and the very next day
Mr. Herbert received a note from the manager
of the bank, requesting him to call at his
earliest convenience.

When Dick, in obedience to this summons,
entered the manager's private room, that
functionary, with a very grave face, regretted
to inform him that a cheque for 200/. — an
obvious forgery, purporting to bear his signature
— had been presented across the counter
and inadvertently honoured by one of the
clerks. ' And I am very sorry to add, Mr.
Herbert, that the money was paid to the
young man Stiles.'

Oh, indeed ! ' said Dick. ' Let's have a

look at it.' And, after examining the paper —
So that's what you call a forgery ? '

Surely, Mr. Herbert, you must see that
it is.'

Oh, no,' answered Dick ; ' don't see it at
all. Why should it be a forgery? ''E. N.
Herbert " — that's the way I always sign, isn't
it?'

Mr. Herbert, do I understand you to recognise
this as your signature ? ' inquired the
manager solemnly.

Dick nodded ; and then the manager stared
at him, and he stared at the manager ; and
the latter said no more, but thought a good
deal. ' Would it not be well, Mr. Herbert,
that in future we should supply you with
cheques made payable to Order and not to
Bearer ? ' was his only remark, as his visitor
rose.

Dick answered ' Yes, if you like,' picked
up the cheque and rode home.

As he was dismounting from his horse he
caught sight of Jacob, hailed him, led him
into the library, and producing that terrible

slip of blue paper, held it up before his eyes.
Your writing, I presume ? ' he remarked,
laconically.

The unfortunate criminal could not get out
a word of reply. His knees trembled under
him, he turned-pale, and a cold sweat broke
out upon his forehead. Herbert had his
hunting-croj^ in his hand.

Jake,' he said, quietly, ' I'm going to give
you a thrashing.' And without more ado
he caught the young man by the collar and
administered the punishment alluded to with
the utmost vigour of a powerful right arm.

Jacob never uttered a word or a ixroan.
[t was no nominal thrashing that was inflicted
upon him ; but perhaps he did not care about
the pain. When it was over, he had just
strength enough left to crawl away to his
room and hide himself. He richly deserved
all that he had got, and was let off, upon the
whole, very cheaply. One must not venture
to claim sympathy for a man who rewards
innumerable kindnesses by forging his benefactor's
name. We are all sinners and frankly

admit as miicli once a week, if not oftener ;
we do things that we ought not to do, and
leave undone what we ought to do ; but as
for lying, thieving, and cheating — allons done !
such mean offences are far beneath us, and
we have every right to despise those who
commit them. Perhaps so; but this poor
wretch was base-born, and may not have possessed
our noble instincts. Possibly even for
him some allowance may be made by generous
minds.

Dick Herbert had a very generous mind ;
but there never lived a man to whom it was
less possible to make allowance for certain
sins. It may be that he held too exalted
views of the virtue of his fellow-creatures ;
at any rate, he trusted them implicitly until
they deceived him ; after which, no earthly
power could induce him to trust them a
second time. He had done his duty to Jacobin
administering to him a lesson not likely to
be forgotten. When the offender came and
threw himself at his feet, in an agony of shame
and remorse, he freely forgave him, saying :

'We will never mention the subject again;'
and he never did mention it again. But it
was no longer in his power either to esteem,
or to like the young fellow, nor was it in his
power to hide the contempt that he felt for
him. His kindness did not cease, but his
friendliness did ; and Jacob, who was as sensitive
as he was sharp, felt and appreciated
the distinction.

Whether the above catastrophe was the
making or the marring of Jacob's career must
remain an open question, since no one can
pronounce judgment upon what might have
been. It cured him at once and for ever of
betting ; he made a vow, and kept it, that the
ring should know him no more ; but it maybe
said to have spoilt his temper, which, perhaps,
was not naturally a sweet one. His life,
even when he was among his fellow art-students,
in London, was somewhat solitary ;
when he was at Farndon it was completely
so. He had his own rooms, and, as he showed
that he preferred to shut himself up, he was
not often asked to leave them. It is difficult

for a man who lias been soundly horsewliipped
to conceal all traces of the fact ; and the
servants, who had never had any love for Jacob,
guessed what had happened to hhxi. If they
did not find out the exact truth, they arrived
at something not very far removed from it ;
and gave themselves the satisfaction of sneering
at him in a way which he could not
resent. By one hasty, dishonourable act, he
had incurred permanent obloquy, and he knew
it. For years the dominant idea in his mind
was a sense of the cruel harshness of fate,
and of the injustice which took no account
of repentance. Then Mss Herbert came to
live at Farndon, and it was not his good fortune
to commend himself favourably to ]\Iiss
Herbert, who alleged, with perfect truth,
that the young man had been placed in an
absurdly false position by her brother.

False or not, there was no remedy for it
now. He must remain where he was, until
his brush should bring him in a sufficient
income to enable him to set up his household
gods elsewhere ; and even when that wished-for

day came he would not be free — he never
could be free — from the weight of an immense
obligation. In the meantime, his conduct
continued to be exemplary, and his talent
was recognised by all competent judges. Ambition
of a kind he had, but it was not a
hopeful kind of ambition. He developed into
a rather sullen and taciturn young man —
not a pleasant young man — possibly even a
dangerous one, it might be fancied, by the
look of him. Yet his thoughts were seldom
bad thoughts, only intensely bitter. His
feeling towards Herbert would be difficult to
define, and he certainly never attempted to
define it to himself. He admired the man, he
respected him ; he would have loved him if
things had fallen out differently. As it was,
there were certain moments when he felt as if
earth could afford him no greater joy than to
detect his benefactor in the commission of
some ignoble action. It will be perceived
that poor Jacob had great natural disadvantages
to contend against.

The little station of Farndon Road is only

about a mile and a half from Farndon Court,
and as Dick had not been sure how soon he
would be able to get away from Lord ^^liddle-
borough's wedding, he had iiiven no orders
that he should be met. When he left the
train, however, he found Jacob Stiles waiting
for him in a dog-cart, and was a little surprised
by a mark of attention which had been
frequent enough in the old days, but which
he had latterly ceased to look for.

Hallo, Jake ! ' he said, ' what brings you
down here ? '

'I had to go into Windsor about something,'
replied the other, ' and I thought I
might as well drive round to the station, incase
you came down by this train.'

I intended to walk,' said Dick ; ' but
since you are here, I don't mind taking a Hft.
No ; you drive,' he added, as he climbed into
the dog-cart, and his companion handed him
the reins ; ' I'm going to smoke a cigarette.'

Jacob did as he was requested, and drove
on some little distance, before saying : ' I
wanted to tell you that I have sold another

picture.' He spoke with his eyes lowered,
which was a trick that he had.

Have you ? ' said Dick. ' Glad to hear it,
I hope you got a good price.'

Yes,' answered the other, ' I think so. I
think I got as much as it was worth.'

He had a slow, somewhat deprecating
method of enunciation, which, taken in conjunction
with his thin, pale cheeks, and his
habit of holding his head low, caused strangers
to think that he must either be very unhappy,
or be weighed down by some guilty secret —
an impression which, as we know, was tolerably
correct. But for these peculiarities he
would have passed muster easily enough,
having a face which was rather handsome
than plain, and a well-knit, well-proportioned
figure.

The gentleman who bought that picture
has given me an order for two more,' he went
on, ' and I am to do some illustrations for the
Grosvenor Magazine." '

'Come, that's capital news. Did you
drive round to tell me about it, Jake ? '

The young fellow raised his eyes — they
were very dark and very brilliant eyes — for
the first time, and shot a quick, sidelong
glance at his questioner. ' I thought you
would be glad to hear,' he answered. He
seemed as if he were o-oinix to say something
more, but apparently changed his mind, and,
drawing the whip gently across the horse's
flanks, slightly increased the pace at which
they were moving.

By-the-way,' observed Dick presently, * I
have got a piece of news too. I'm going to
be married.'

This time Jacob's eyes were opened to
their utmost extent, and were turned full upon
Dick's face, which remained impassive. ' To
be married ? You ! ' he exclaimed. ' Do you
really mean it ? '

Oh, yes ; I have been thinking about it
for some time past. It is a !Miss Lefroy ;
not a sister of Lady ILiddleborough's — her
cousin. You and she ought to become friends,
I should think ; for she takes a great interest
in art, and paints like a professional.'

Jacob smiled very slightly ; lie may have
been thinking that neither the future Mrs.
Herbert nor any other lady was at all likely
to make friends with him. From dwelling so
continually upon one thought, he had come
to have a morbid conviction that he looked
like a forger, and that everybody must suspect
him of being one. Presently he said ina
formal, hesitating ways as if he were repeating
a speech previously learnt by heart :
'I am very glad that you are going to be
married at last. I hope sou will be as happy
as you deserve to be.'

Thanks,' answered Dick briefly. After a
minute or two he asked : ' Did you happen to
take a look at the Electricity foal to-day ? '

'Yes. I don't much fancy him myself;
but Miss Herbert thinks he will be the best
one wee ever bred. She arrived just before
luncheon. I suppose you knew that she was
coming ? '

'No, by George! I didn't,' replied Dick,
looking a trifle perturbed. ' The last time I
heard from her she said she wouldn't be here

for another fortnight. I rather suspect, you
know,' he went on musingly, ' that Carry won't
altogether like this. In fact, I'm sure she
won't Eke it. If you come to that, it would
be ridiculous to expect her to like it.'

These remarks partook so much of the
nature of a soliloquy, that Jacob did not feel
called upon to make any response to them,
and nothing more was said until they reached
the hall door, where bliss Herbert, who had
been out riding, happened at that moment to
be dismounting from her horse.

She was a tall, dark, well-made woman,
who looked both young and handsome in her
riding habit, but who, under other circumstances,
was quite evidently thirty years of
age. She resembled her brother in nothing:
at all, except in a certain abruptness of speech,
and was far less universally popular than he.
Xevertheless, she had a very large acquaintance,
and was said to have refused many
eligible suitors. She had a considerable fortune
of her own.

Well, Carry,' said Dick as he descended

Vol. I. S

from the clog-part, ' so here you are again.
Where are you from last ? '

He did not pay much attention to her
reply, but walked up the steps beside her, and,
with his usual promptitude in coming to the
point, said : ' I have something to tell you.
I am p'oinc^ to be married in the course of the
summer, to Hope Lefroy, the niece of the
Helston Abbey man.'

^ As I have never set eyes on the girl,'
observed Miss Herbert, without any manifestation
of surprise, ' I can't tell whether to congratulate
you or not.'

'You may congratulate me. And I say,
Carry, I should like you two to be friends, if
you could manage it.'

I doubt whether we shall be able to
manage it. Do you recollect ever to have
come across a case of sisters-in-law living in
the same house who were friends ? I don't.'

'Well, let us try to make yours an exceptional
case.'

They had entered the drawing-room by
this time. Miss Herbert had seated herself in

an arm-chair and had Laid her gloves and whip
down on the tea-table at her elbow. Dick
leant with his shoulders against the mantelpiece
and his hands in his pockets.

You are bound to see a o-ood deal of one
another,' he continued, ' and you knoAv, Carry,
you are an infernally disagreeable woman
sometimes. You don't mind ni}- SJ^yhig so, do
you ? '

I am sure you would not be deterred
from saying so by such a trifle as my objecting
to be called infernally disagreeable.'

Ah, but you can be infernally agreeable
too, if you like. I wish you would take it
into your head to be agreeable to her.'

sly dear Dick, I hope I am not so silly
or so ill-bred as to quarrel with your wife ;
but if you expect to see us tripping out of the
dining-room after dinner with our arms twined
round each other's waists, you had better
prepare yourself for a disappointment. Demonstrations
of that kind must be undertaken
by you.'

Dick laughed. ' There won't be any

s3

demonstrations of that kind ; don't be alarmed.
We shall be a very sensible matter-of-fact
couple, and we have no intention of going in
for love-making. Besides, I daresay I shall
be away from home pretty often.'

Oh, you have already arranged that? If
it is not an impertinent question, may I ask
Why you are marrying a girl with whom you
are not in love ? I can understand that she
may have her reasons for marrying you.'

We both have our reasons, and very good
ones too. I needn't run through the list of
them. I really think you will like Hope ;
but I won't say any more. If I praise her
too ]much I shall probably set you against
her.'

'Naturally,' observed Miss Herbert, and
then changed the subject.

Jacob no longer dined with the family ; his
meals were served to him by reluctant servants
in his own sitting-room upstairs — another
painful incident of his false position. Sometimes,
however, if there was nobody staying
in the house, he would make his appearance

in the smoking-room at a late hour ; and he
did so this evening.

Dick looked up from the 'Field,' and
nodded to him as he entered and advanced
towards the fire, his cheeks somewhat pale,
and the embarrassment of his manner more
marked than usual. It was only after he had
twice opened his hips without speaking that
he managed to say :

I told you I had sold another picture. I
have been saving up what I have earned lately,
and here it is.' He held out a bundle of banknotes.
" It's — it's — the two hundred pounds
that I stole,' he said, a sudden flush mounting
to his cheek-bones as he forced himself to
utter that uncompromising word.

Dick frowned, as he had a wav of doincp
when he was distressed. ' AVhat nonsense,
Jake ! ' he exclaimed. ' I tlioucfht we had
agreed not to mention that affair again. It is
all over and — done with.' He had been croinor
to say ' forgotten,' but checked himself.

It can never be done with for me,'
answered the young man, upon whom the

significance of the substituted phrase was not
lost. ' The curse will be upon me to my
dying day. If I never commit another offence
against God or man, it will make no difference.
It can't be helped, I suppose.'

Dick was not much moved by this outburst,
which struck him as exaggerated and
uncalled-for. ' My good fellow,' he said, not
very felicitously, ' I don't want the money ; it
wasn't the loss of two hundred pounds that I
cared about.'

I am quite aware of that,' replied the
other bitterly ; ' but I hope you will take the
money, all the same, to please me. It's — a
wedding present, if you like,' he added, with
a faint smile.

I am very willing to accept your present,
Jake, if that Avill make you any happier,' said
Dick, taking the notes and tossing them carelessly
into a drawer.

Unlike the generality of rich men, he cared
less about money than about any other earthly
thing, and treated this considerable sum as if
it had been the merest trifle. He wanted to

add something kind, but scarcely knew what
to say. The pale, sullen face and the downcast
eyes which refused to meet his, impressed
him disagreeably. The form of consolation
which finally commended itself to him was
not quite the best that could laye been hit
upon.

Come, Jake, don't look so gloomy oyer it.
Nobody but ourselves knows what happened
three years ago, and nobody else eyer will
know. You laye made a fresh start ; go on
and prosper, and, in God's name, give up
worrying yourself about what can't be undone.'


Jacob made some inarticulate murmur
and presently went away. He had been quite
prepared for his reception ; he had felt sure
beforehand that Dick would never say, 'Let
us be friends again,' yet he was sore and disappointed.
If those few words could laye
been spoken, his character might even now
have been altered ; but the words that he had
heard were so many fresh wounds, which
would smart for weeks and months to come.

and might not improbably poison his sick
mind beyond hope of cure, as the sting of an
insect will sometimes prove fatal to those whose
blood is in a diseased state. But how was a
straightforward, plain-dealing fellow like Dick
Herbert to understand all this ?

CHAPTEE Xii.

MRS. PIERPOIXT.

OxE afternoon, some weeks after the announcement
of Hope's engagement to ^h\ Herbert, a
young gentleman, whose somewhat ]perturbed
mien contrasted with the very careful accuracy
of his get-up, rang at the door of one of the
smallest houses in Green Street, Mayfair. He
asked for Mrs. Pierpoint, was admitted, and
presently groped his way into a diminutive
drawing-room, darkened to suit modern requirements,
and a little over-crowded with
the Satsuma and Kioto ware, the old silver
and enamels and miniatures which are the
outward evidences of modern taste.

Behind a tea-table in a corner of the
diminutive drawing-room sat a diminutive
lady, who immediately said : ' I know what is
the matter. You have heard that your flame

is going to be married, and you have come to
tell me that it is all my fault.'

And so it is your fault,' Captain Cunningham
declared, dropping into a low chair and
casting his hat away from him with the air of
one to whom glossy hats could henceforward
be neither a care nor a consolation. ' If it
hadn't been for you, this would never have
happened.'

If I could think so,' remarked Mrs. Pier-point,
' I should be able to flatter myself that
I had not lived altogether in vain ; but I am
afraid I must not claim all that credit. The
utmost that I have done has been to save you
from getting into one more stupid scrape.'

Mrs. Pierpoint had been for some years
Bertie Cunningham's friend, confidant, and adviser.
Her age was nearer forty than thirty;
but she had preserved her girlish figure and
as much as could be expected of the' beauty
for which she had once been famous. Time
could not mar the perfect profile formed by
that low brow, that little Greek nose, that
short upper lip and rounded clin. Some

lines, it is true, showed themselves about the
mouth and eyes, and the complexion was no
longer what it had been ; but the abundant
brown hair was as vet streaked with grey,
only the gold having faded out of it. She was
a bright, vivacious woman, who liked hunting
in winter, and society in spring, and yachting
in summer, and Bertie Cunningham all the
year round. Some people were pleased to say
disagreeable things about her ; but as these
things were not true, there is no need to
dwell upon them. She had a husband with
whom she managed to hive on terms of amity,
though there had been a time when she had
believed that this would be impossible to her.
Many things are found possible which do not
appear so at first sight. Mrs. Pierpoint had
learnt to shut her eyes to what she did not
wish to see, to accept what there was no satisfactory
mode of escape from, and to conceal
any sufferings that she may have felt from a
world which dislikes nothing so much as the
contemplation of suffering. It is probable that
her moral standard was not a very exalted

one ; but she was a brave, kindhearted little
soul, who tried to do her duty according to
her lights, and spoke evil of neither man nor
woman.

'If it hadn't been for you,' Bertie Cunningham
went on reproachfully, ' I should
have got those people to ask me down to
Helston at Christmas. You know I should.'

And afterwards ? '

Afterwards ?^ — afterwards ! Well, I should
have seen her, and she wouldn't have gone
and engaged herself to this fellow, that's all.
Oh, you may call me conceited if you like
I don't care. I'm much too miserable to
care what I am called. Herbert, of all men !
She can't possibly love him, you know.
Now, don't go and say that she does.'

Would it be any comfort to you to think
that she did.'

Yes — no — I don't know. I am beyond
reach of comfort. You don't understand
what it is ; you're so awfully stony-hearted.
I should just like to see you desperately,
miserably in love with somebody ! '

I fancy that I have oiithvecl the power ;
but thank you, all the same. I have seen
you m that condition once or twice before,
and I don't feel much alarmed about you.
You'll be all ricfht aiiain in a few weeks.'

That is a most horrid, unfriendly thing
to say ! ' cried Cunningham ; ' besides being
perfectly untrue. You never in your life
saw me in love before. Some fancies I may
have had — there's nothing; to lavish at — I
say, I may have had a passing fancy or two ;
but nothing in the least like this. This is
the real thing, and I shall never set over it.'

Do you think you will die of it, then ?
Have a cup of tea in the meantime.'

I said nothing about dying,' returned the
young man, with some asperity ; ' I said I
should never get over it, and I never shall.
If I were talking to anybody but you, I
should say that my heart was broken ; but
I won't say so to you, because as a matter of
course you would begin to laugh. You are
laughing already. Well, I suppose there
must be something kingly funny in the

suffering of a friend, since it amuses you so
much ; but I don't quite see the joke myself.'

I am not laughing,' said the little lady,
who indeed had only smiled. ' I am really
sorry for you, and I quite believe that it hurts
for the moment ; only I cannot ]pretend to
regret Miss Lefroy's engagement. You know
as well as I do that you never could have
married her, and therefore '

Oh, yes ; that's the way you kept going
on all the winter. I wish to heaven I hadn't
listened to you ! '

Do you know that you are becoming
rather rude ? But never mind ; I didn't
expect gratitude. What I was going to say
was that, as you could not have afforded to
marry Miss Lefroy yourself, it really cannot
signify much to you whom she marries or
when she marries. To be sure,' added Mrs.
Pierpoint, thoughtfully, ' I would rather have
heard that she was engaged to any other man
than Mr. Herbert. It may lead to complications.'


What complications ? ' Cunningham asked.

'You know what I mean. I am afraid
you will be apt to make love to the wife
when you ought to be making love to the
sister.'

Cunningham groaned. ' I wish you were
not so determined to marry me to Miss
Herbert ! I am not going to marry her ; I
am not going to marry at all. Why on earth
should I ? '

Because it is good for you. Because you
want money ; because Carry Herbert is by
far the best-looking heiress that I know, and
because you really did like her very much not
so long ago.'

Like her ! — oh, yes, I liked her well
enough ; but that was before I saw Hope —
miss Lefroy, I mean. Everything; is changed
now, and there is only one woman in the
Avorld whom I could possibly marry. I says
do you believe Dick Herbert is in love with
her?'

I know nothing about it, but I presume
so. According to you, her charms are sufficient
to account for his being in love with her.'

Yes ; but I always imagined that Herbert
was a rei^^iilar Avoman-hater, and he o-ave out
ever so lonc^ ao^o that he didn't mean to
marry. I expect Lady Jane has made up
the match.'

Mrs. Pierpoint was beginning : ' If she

has, it is much to her credit ' dien Mr.

Francis was announced, and she rose to shake
hands Avitli the new arrival ' AVe were just
talking about your friend Mr. Herbert,' she
remarked.

'Were you?' said Francis. 'Then let
us talk about something else.'

After that, we certainly can't talk about
anything else until you have explained yourself.
Don't you approve of his marriage ? '

Does anybody ever approve of the
marriage of his best friend ? Isn't it a well-known
fact that the chances apse twenty to
one in favour of his best friend's wife hating
him like poison ? In this instance the chances
may safely be counted as fifty to one, because
the only time that I ever spoke to Miss
Lefroy I was happily inspired to tell her that

a woman who married poor Dick from
worldly motives would infallibly make him
and herself miserable.'

She is marrying him from worldly
motives then ? '

Judging by the spirit in which she
received my remarks I should imagine that
she was ; but I am not in Miss Lefroy's
secrets. I shall buy a very nice wedding
present for Dick ; I shall see him through on
the fatal day, and then bid him a tearful
farewell. I give him eighteen months to
repent of his bargain and return to me in
sackcloth and ashes. That would bring us to
just about the proper time of year for the
big game in Abyssinia.'

'You are indeed a friend of the right
sort. And what is Mrs. Herbert to do when
you go after the big game in Abyssinia ? '

Mrs. Herbert, I take it, will amuse herself
with little games in England. I don't
wish to be the prophet of evil. I may be
quite wrong, and they may turn out the
happiest couple under the sun ; but I have

Vol. I. T

opinions of my own upon the subject of
matrimony in general and of Dick Herbert asa
married man in particular.'

He had vieAvs, which he was rather fond
of unfolding, upon most subjects, and perhaps
he would have been willing to state his
matrimonial views now ; but it was already
past six o'clock, and other visitors, before
whom such subjects could not conveniently
be discussed, began to drop in, one by one,
until the little room was almost choked with
them.

Amonir the latest arrivals was Miss Herbert,
who was welcomed by Mrs. Pierpoint
with that peculiarly affectionate cordiality
which women are wont to display towards
another of their sex in the presence of the
man to whom they desire to marry her.
Why they should behave in this manner it
is not easy to discover ; for the man, unless
he is very dull indeed, sees and understands
it all, and, as a general thing, it makes him
both uncomfortable and obstinate. It is not
everybody who, like Bertie Cunningham, is

prepared for all kinds of feiniDine stratagems
and is confident of his own power to resist
them.

That experienced youth knew quite well
that a chair close to his would be found for
Miss Herbert, and he also had good grounds
for believing that ]\Iiss Herbert had a crow to
pluck with him ; but he did not allow these
things to disturb his equanimity. He got hera
cup of tea, resumed his seat, smiled
pleasantly, and waited for her to begin the
attack. She looked very handsome in that
subdued hg;ht. and, broken-hearted though
he was, it was always agreeable to him to
contemplate a handsome woman. The clouds
which had gathered upon her brow when she
first caught sight of him began to disperse as
she returned his ijaze.

Captain Cunningham,' said she, ' how
ought one to treat a correspondent who never
answers one's letters ? '

Go on writing to him till he does answer,
I should think,' replied Bertie, promptly.

'That mio'ht become monotonous. perhaps

a simpler plan would be to give up
writing to him altogether.'

I can't help fancying,' said Bertie, ' that
these observations are meant to apply in
some mysterious way to me. If so, I can
only say that that is the plan which you have
adopted. I haven't had a letter from you fora
very long time ; but I am sure I answered
every time that you wrote. If you didn't
hear, it must have been the fault of that disgraceful
post-office, which is always mislaying
my correspondence. I mean to make a
formal complaint to the Postmaster-general
about it one of these days.'

Miss Herbert smiled. Perhaps she believed
him ; perhaps she only wanted to
believe him. He was bending forwards, his
elbow resting on his knees, and was looking
up into her face with those innocent dark-blue
eyes which many a woman before her
had found irresistible. The most absurd of
all the illusions that we cherish are those
which we knoAv to be illusions ; but it not
unfrequently happens that tliesc are just the

ones with which we are most unwilling to
part.

Miss Herbert drank her tea silently ; the
sniile was still hovering about her hips as she
handed the empty cup to her neighbour. In
general, her voice, if not exactly harsh, was
hard ; but nothing could have been gentler
than the intonation with which her next
words were spoken. ' I wonder whether you
will take the trouble to come and see me
sometimes, now that I am in London.'

Of course I will,' Bertie answered ; 'where
are you staying ? '

She gave him one of her cards. ' Dick
has taken a house for the season,' she said.
I suppose you have heard about poor
Dick ? '

The young man winced slight I v. * Yes,
I've heard. What in the world is he doing
it for .^ '

Mealy that is more than I can tell you.
There appears to be no pretence of affection
on either side.'

I knew it I ' exclaimed Bertie, off" his

guard. ' I was certain that there couldn't be
anything of the kind ! '

Why were you so certain ? ' asked Miss
Herbert, suspiciously. 'Are you acquainted
with the girl ? '

Well, yes ; just acquainted,' answered
the other, recollecting himself. ' That is, I
have met her twice in my life. It didn't
strike me that she was at all in Dick's style.
This really ought not to be allowed to go on,
you know.'

Miss Herbert laughed. ' If you think that
Dick can lye prevented from doing anything
that he has made up his mind to do, you must
have had very few opportunities of studying
his character. After all, why should it not
be allowed to go on? It is very unlikely
that he will live and die a bachelor, and I
don't know that Miss Lefroy will not suit him
as well as anybody else. I was introduced to
her yesterday, and I thought her a very
decent sort of person.'

A decent sort of person ! Bertie stroked
his nascent moustache and held his tongue

with some difficulty. He valued peace too
much to put the thoughts that were iu him
into words ; but he was not sorry that the
conversation at this juncture became general.
When Bliss Herbert took her leave he had
recovered himself sufficiently to bestow that
slight pressure upon her fingers which he
supposed that she expected.

As soon as he and Mrs. Pierpoint were
once more alone, the latter remarked drily,
I am glad to see that you are still capable
of making love to a lady who has the merit
of beincr marriageable.'

You call that a merit ! Besides, I didn't
make love to her at all — how can you say
such things? I have never made love to
her.'

'Oh I'

Well, I am speaking the truth. I know
what it will be ; some fine day you will
manage to get me into such a position that I
shall be obliged to propose to Miss Herbert or
some other heiress, and then I shall be nicely
caught ! '

You must acknowledge that, if I have
anything to do with the catching, I shall at
least be disinterested. You heard what Mr.
Francis said just now about the wives of
one's best friends, and I suppose the same
rule applies to the husbands. This is a
peculiarly hard case, since both you and
Carry Herbert are friends of mine. I wonder
whether you will both show me the cold
shoulder as soon as you are married.'

I can't tell what she might do,' said Cunningham
; ' but I can answer for myself.
Cold shoulder wouldn't be the word ! If ever
you bring such a thing about, my implacable
resentment shall pursue you all the days of
your mortal life.'

This is very sad and very discouraging,'
said Mrs. Pierpoint ; ' but I think I will take
my chance all the same. Perhaps you won't
hate me ; you may even live to thank me —
who knows ? '

CHAPTER XV.

HOPE DOES HER DUTY.

Spring had passed imperceptibly into summer
; the trees in Eaton Square were as green
as London trees can contrive to be ; the
season was in full swing ; the ceaseless turmoil
of the vast city had become slightly increased
in one of its quarters ; a few of its inhabitants
were spending hundreds and thousands of
pounds upon entertainments which afforded
no very keen delight to anybody ; others
were dying of hunger in garrets ; at Westminster
statesmen and would-be statesmen
were calling one another bad names and occasionally
doing a little business. That astonishing
mixture of tragedy and farce which
goes by the name of life, and which, from
force of habit, none of us find astonishing,

was, in short, being enacted as usual ; and the
circumstance that a single individual amono^
those millions, had rather rashly engaged
herself to marry a man whom she did not love
was, doubtless, trivial enough. What can it
matter whether one atom in the swarm lives
or dies, is happy or unhappy? Since, however,
all is relative ; since the world in which
we dwell is but a speck in the immensity of
space, and since it and we might be extinguished
tomorrow without even a momentary
cessation of the music of the spheres, it is
evident that we have only to apply the same
theory upon a somewhat larger scale in order
to convince ourselves that nothing which has
ever happened upon the surface of this planet
is of any consequence whatsoever — a proposition
which seems too bold to be gulped
down by mortal swallow. And so we return
to the comforting conclusion that small things
are just as important as great, and that Hope
Lefroy's destiny was at least of supreme consequence
to herself.

There were moments when she felt it to

be so ; but for the most part lie allowed
herself to float clown the stream of fate, not
without a restful sense of relief m the thought
that her struggles against the current were
ended. Herbert came to see her from time to
time — not by any means every day ; Gertrude
endeavoured, with more or less of success, to
interest her in the purchase of her trousseau ;
Lady Jane purred over her contentedly ; the
more distant members of the Lefro}' clan
came to offer their felicitations and their
wedding gifts ; the days slipped away somehow
or other and were not such bad days,
taking them all in all. She went as little
as possible into the world, the comparative
recency of her father's death giving her an
excuse for declining invitations ; but she could
hardly refuse to be present at her aunt's
annual ball, and it was upon that occasion
that she encountered Captain Cunningham for
the first time since her enofacrement.

It must be confessed that the sight of the
young guardsman agitated her a little for a
moment ; he himself was agitated, and possibly

did not try very hard to veil his agitation.
But it was rather her memory than
her heart that was stirred, and she speedily
regained her self-possession. ' No, thanks ! '
she said, in answer to his immediate request,
I am not i:^oinf]j to dance to-nii]^ht.'

Oh, but just once ! — for the sake of old
times,' he pleaded.

Well, perhaps once,' she answered, hesitatingly.
' But not now ; later in the evening,
if you're disengaged then,' and with that she
turned away.

After all why should she not have just one
last dance? Without quite knowing it, she
looked forward to her marriage in much the
same way that many people look forward to
death — as the end of everything, a huge
barrier, beyond which there may or may not
be some new kind of happiness, but surely
no renewal of dancing or laughter or other
frivolous delights.

Cunningham was too adroit, or too much
engaged, to claim the promised dance before
two o'clock in the morning, the consequence

of wliicli wr.s that lie was awaited with some
little impatience. He looked sad and interesting
; he said very little, but placed his arm
round his partner's waist, and, as she was
whirled away into the throng, it seemed to her
for an instant as if careless youth had come
back, and all the events of the past year might
be forgotten, and she might fancy herself at
her first ball ao-ain.

An insignificant circumstance interfered
with the continuance of this illusion. The
house in which Hope had first been introduced
to London society had been a very
large one, whereas that in Eaton Square
was only of moderate size. In so restricted
a space collisions could with difficulty be
avoided, and anything like the poetry of
motion was quite Unattainable. After making
the circuit of the room once, Hope paused,
and, disengaging herself from her partner,
declared with a touch of petulance that it was
out of the question to dance in the midst of
such a rabble. ' We may as well sit down,'
she said, and suited the action to the word.

All ! ' sighed Cunningham, as he followed
her example, ' if we could only go back to this
time last year I '

That is just what I was thinking ; it seems
so much more than a year ago ! '

I suppose it wouldn't make much difference
if we could,' the young man said with
another sigh ; ' what must be will be. Only,
so long as things haven't actually happened,
it always seems as if other things might be
possible, don't you know ? '

To this incoherent sentiment Hope made
no reply, and he continued : ' I wonder what
we shall be doing this time next year. Probably
I shall be wishing that I could have this
evening back again. Next year you will be
Mrs. Herbert, and perhaps your husband won't
let you dance.'

I don't think Mr. Herbert is likely to lay
any prohibitions upon me,' answered Hope,
coldly.

She was not pleased with him for alluding
to her marriage. There are certain reticences
for which women are always grateful, and she

had credited Cunningham with some delicacy
in that he had refrained from offering her any
empty congratulations. Of course he must
suspect what her motives for marrying were,
and, as he was no relation of hers, of course
he could see no cause for rejoicing in such a
match. But he might have let the subject
alone.

Fortunately he did not seem inclined to
pursue it. His next words were: 'Do you
remember that day last winter when I met
you in the Park ? '

Quite well,' answered Hope.

And I told you I should get your people
to ask me down to Helston at Christmas.
How I wish I had ! '

We should all have been glad to see
you ; but most likely you were better amused
hunting in Leicestershire with your friend
Mrs. Pierpoint.'

How did you know that I was there ? '
asked the young man in some astonishment.

'Everything is known. Did you wish it
to remain a secret ? '

Oil, dear, no ! there is no secret about it.
Pierpoint told me I could ride his horses
while he was away, so I went down to Melton
for a few weeks and stayed with a cousin of
mine. Only I thought, from the way you
spoke — that is, I hope you know that I would
a thousand times rather have been at Helston
than in Leicestershire.'

Eeally ? I can't quite understand why.'
But in truth she did understand what he
meant her to infer ; and, if she had not, the
eloquent expression which he now threw into
his eyes would have enlightened her. This
knowledge, however, did not cause her heart
to beat any the faster. Captain Cunningham
might possibly, under different conditions,
have become something to her ; but he was
nothing to her now — she was quite sure of
that — nor did she believe much in his sincerity.
No doubt the impassioned gaze with
which she was at that moment being honoured
had been directed at half-a-dozen sets of features
in the course of the evening. But there
she did him an injustice. Had he been less

seriously in love with her, lie would not have
hesitated to be a good deal more expect ;
but Hope was not to him what other women
were, and since he could no more ask her to
throw Herbert over and marry him than he
could propose to a princess of the blood royal,
he heroically refrained from going beyond
hints and glances ; which, according to his
code, was no small concession to the behests
of duty.

These meeting with no response, the conversation
gradually languished. Neither he
nor she felt altogether at ease ; the interview
was a disappointment to both of them, and
Hope was not sorry when Herbert lounged
up to her side and put an end to it. ^Yith
Herbert she did feel at ease ; never was there
a less exacting fiance. If she happened to be
in a talkative mood, he sat and listened to her
with apparent pleasure ; if, on the other hand,
she preferred to remain silent, that seemed to
suit him quite equally well. She told herself
a dozen times a day that she ought to be very
thankful and that she never could have got

Vol. I. U

on so smoothly with anyone else in the world.
It was necessary that she should tell herself
this, because every now and then he provoked
her to an extent for which she was puzzled
to account ; and indeed, although storms are
not to be desired, there are few tempers
capable of holding out against a perpetual
equatorial calm.

There was no disturbing Dick Herbert's
good humour ; otherwise he might have been
made a little anxious by the fits of nervous
irritability to which Hope became subject as
the day of her marriage drew nearer ' Do
you realise what you are doing ? ' she asked
him suddenly once ; ' do you know that you
are marrying a woman who has the makings
of a termagant in her ? ' He smiled and replied
that he was willing to run that risk.

On another occasion she besought him to
tell her whether he did not in his heart believe
it to be wicked to marry without love.
It must be wicked — I am sure it must be !
Though I don't think the Bible says anything
about it.'

Neither the Bible nor I have a word to
say against the practice,' Dick answered.

But perhaps you think it wrong, though
you don't say so. Wouldn't you like to be
off your bargain ? Come I — there is still
time.'

Well — hardly, is there ? Think of the
feelings of your family.'

Hope burst into an hysterical laugh.
What would they do to me ! It would be
almost worth while to break the engagement
off, if only for the sake of passing through
such a starting experience. But of course I
am talking nonsense,' she added, becoming
grave again. ' I should never have the moral
courage to retreat now ; perhaps, if I had
had any moral courage, I should never have
advanced. It has all been your doing from
first to last.'

I don't mind accepting the entire responsibility,'
said Dick.

That was the worst of him : he didn't
mind anything. It was this unreasonable
complaint that Hope inwardly formulated

V 2

against a man who let lier do exactly what
she pleased now, and who would in all probability
continue to let her do what she
pleased hereafter. Unquestionably such a
treasure was thrown away upon her ; and
so, in truth, her friends appeared to think.
When they came to congratulate her, they
one and all expatiated upon Dick's good
qualities, and had an unflattering way of implying
that she was a great deal more lucky
than she deserved to be. Even Mills, who
could not be accused of undervaluing her
former mistress, was abundantly satisfied with
the match and spoke of Mr. Herbert in terms
of such extravagant, not to say ignorant,
eulogy that Hope could not help calling attention
to one small defect of his. ' He is
sixteen years older than I am, you know.
Mills.'

And a very good thing too. Miss Hope.
I don't feel no confidence in young men, nor
yet no respect for 'em,' said Mrs. Mills, whose
own husband was considerably her junior.
What you want,' she went on, ' is somebody

to take care of you ; and that 'Mr. Herbert
will do. I'd a deal sooner it was him than
the other.'

What other ? ' Hope inquired.

Why, him as you walked with that day
in the park, my dear. I was took with him
at first, I don't deny, for I have always been
partial to good looks, having none myself;
but when I come to think it over, I didn't
feel so sure of him. No, my dear ; it's best
as it is, you may depend.'

The gentleman whom you speak of never
asked me to marry him,' said Hope ; ' and no
doubt everything that happens is always for
the best. At all events, you will be a gainer,
you poor old Mills, for you won't be dragged
away from your duties any more noah to sit
in artists' studios all the morning.'

The Lord be praised for that ! ' ejaculated
Mills piously. ' Not that I grudged the time,
as well you know. Miss Hope ; but, dear me !
it wasn't the right thing at all for a young
lady like you to be going to such places. I
felt so all along, though it Wasn't for me to

speak ; and that there Mr. Tristram, I believe
he thought the same as I did.'

Very likely,' answered Hope.

She had no doubt that Tristram, in common
with everybody else, held that opinion.
In her inexperience she had imagined that it
might possibly be the right thing to earn her
own bread ; but evidently this was not so.
The right thing was to remain, by hook or
by crook, in the station to which she had
been born ; the right thing was to be rich.
If riches did not chance in her case to be
synonymous with bliss, that was her own
fault. The consciousness of duty performed
should be sufficient for all well-ordered minds.

It was in the very last days of her spinsterhood
that Hope held the above colloquy
with Mills. She had gone to Henrietta Street
to take leave of her old nurse and her old
rooms, and had contemplated continuing her
pilgrimage to South Kensington in order to
take leave also of her old master. But now
she gave up that idea. What would be the
good? What pleasure could there be in

hearing conventionalities from the unconventional
Tristram ? These might more appropriately
be spoken after the ceremony, to
which he had been invited and at which she
presumed that he would be present. So she
went straight back to Eaton Square and shed
a few tears in private.

No modern Joshua being at hand to arrest
the remorseless progress of time, the sun rose
punctually at 4.30 a.m. on Hope's wedding-morning
to pursue his Wonted course of
shining upon the just and upon the unjust,
in the former class of which persons might
surely be included a young woman whose
faltering steps had led her at last into what
she believed to be the path of duty. When
he sank once more beneath the horizon-hne
Hope Lefroy had become Mrs. Herbert, and
Lady Jane, resting from her labours, breathed
a fervent thanksgiving that the proceedings
of the day had passed off without a hitch.

The good lady had not felt quite sure that
there would be no hitch ; but that numbness
of the whole nervous system which is often

brought about by a crisis, and which is no
bad substitute for courage, enabled Hope to
bear herself from first to last with the most
creditable composure. Her wedding was
only a little less magnificent than that of her
cousin had been. Dukes and duchesses were
not quite so well represented at it, and the
reporters of the daily papers appeared at the
church in somewhat diminished numbers ;
but the requisite bishop was not lacking, nor
had any expense been spared in the way of
floral decoration. Dick Herbert, in a new
suit of clothes, got through his task with ease
and distinction, supported by the dissatisfied
Francis, who had assumed a smiling mien in
spite of his dissatisfaction. The only thing
that Hope afterwards remembered to have
seen during the service was Tristram's shaggy
head rising above a sea of others, and she
noticed that he was studying the scene with
a pensive, melancholy air, as if thinking that
a picture might possibly be made out of it.
But it was certain that Tristram would never
paint anything so hopelessly commonplace asa

fashionable wedding. He said something
to her — she did not clearly understand what
when he shook hands with her after the
rite was concluded. There were so many
people to be shaken hands with and so many
meaningless words to be listened to !

However, the ordeal did not last long.
Hope, placing herself in the hands of the new
maid who had been engaged for her, exchanged
lier bridal array for a travelling-dress
; immediately after which she seemed
to wake out of a trance and found that she
was seated beside her husband in a brougham,
moving rapidly towards the station, whence
they were to depart for Folkestone and the
Continent.

She faced round upon him with quivering
lips and dilated eyes. ' Xow,' she exclaimed,
I hope you are satisfied ! '

It seemed the best thing to do,' he answered
calmly.

Then she turned away, looking out of the
window, and did not speak again until the
short drive was at an end.

Gertrude, when the company had dispersed,
was moved by curiosity to put an
indiscreet question to her mother. ' Mamma,
do you think they will be happy, those
two ? '

They have everything to make them so,'
Lady Jane declared boldly.

'Not quite everything, have they? I
suppose he must be fond of her ; but she
has said from the beginning that she is not
the least in love with him. It seems rather
dreadful ! I hope I shall not marry a man
whom I don't care for.'

I sincerely hope not, my dear,' said Lady
Jane ; ' I should never venture to advise anyone
to do that. And yet love is not so absolutely
essential as young people are apt to
think. I have known many instances in
which people who have married from — other
motives have got on very well.' She sighed
faintly. Perhaps she did not speak upon the
subject without some personal knowledge of
it to guide her. ' At all events,' she concluded
cheerfully, 'it is a thousand times

better for Hope to be living at Farndon and
mixing in the society to which she has been
accustomed, than masquerading about London
in the disguise of a female artist.'

Mr. Lefroy walked down to his club,
where he met several of his late guests.
Well, Lefroy,' said one of them, ' you look
very beaming. Has the Birmingham Caucus
been swallowed up by an earthquake ? '

No,' answered Mr. Lefroy ; ' but Unmarried
my niece to one of the best fellows
that ever stepped.'

Quite so ; but you might have married
her to anybody, for that matter. To my
mind, hers is far and away the most beautiful
face that has been seen in London this year.'

Well, yes,' assented i\Ir. Lefroy. ' Oh,
yes, she is perfect to look at, certainly ; still
I don't mind admitting to you that I'm glad
to get her off my hands. No vice, you understand
; but awkward to drive — very awkward
to drive.'

And you think she'll go steadier in double
harness, eh ? '

I haven't a doubt of it. She'll go steady
enough now — no more shying or bolting.
Only I'm not sure — this is strictly between
ourselves, of course — I'm not fichte sure that
I should care to change places with Dick
Herbert.'

End OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

(G & C.)

PRlNrED BY

SrOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

-I'l B R.AR.Y

OF THL
UNIVERSITY
or ILLINOIS

M-4.-7 ba

BY

W. E. Norris

AUTHOR OF 'MATRDiOXY' ' THIRLBY HALL' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

LONDON
RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON STREET

:publishers in @rbinarg to '§tx Ulajesto the o^iutn


All rights reserved

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street Square

LONDON

Contents

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER PAGE

XVI. A WELCOME 1

XVII. JACOB AS A HERO 23

XVIII. HOPE RECEIVES VISITORS . . . . 4S

XIX. HOPE SPOILS SPORT 66

XX. BERTIE IS LECTURED 90

XXI. JACOB DECLINES TO STRUT . . . .108

XXII. MRS. PIERPOIXT IS PEREMPTORY . . . 126

XXIII. AN Rehearsed EFFECT . . . .144

XXIV. THE PLEASURES OF HOPE . . . . 158

XXV. THE TEMPLE OF FAME . . . .182

XXVI. A FEW WORDS FROM LADY CHATTERTON . . 204

XXVII. A FEW WORDS FROM MR. LEFROY . . 225

XXVIII. BERTIE MAKES A GREAT MISTAKE . . . 243

XXIX. CONFESSION 2f.7

XXX. JACOB GOES OUT FOR A RIDE . . . . 2b9

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/bachelorsblunder02norr

CHAPTEE XVI.

A WELCOME.

Fortunately for its occupants, Farndon Court
has never been a slow place ; but that does
not prevent it from being one of the most
charming houses in Berkshire. The original
structure, which certain prints still extant
depict as a somewhat gloomy mansion of the
Jacobin style, was burnt to the ground in
the early part of the present century, and
Dick Herbert's father, then a young man who
had recently returned from making the grand
tour, had it replaced ripon another site, by as
near a reproduction as his architect could
achieve or would consent to of a Renaissance
Vol. II. B

French chateau, with steep roofs, jiitthig
wings, and high windows, which at a later
period were fitted With plate glass. The
edifice has been a good deal criticised, but no
one has ever thought of disputing the beauty
of its position. It stands on an eminence,
approached from the north by a long, straight
avenue, while on the south (towards which
quarter the windows of the principal reception-rooms
look) is a broad terrace, terminated
by a stone balustrade, some ten feet beneath
which are level lawns and geometrically-designed
flower-beds, according well enough
with the formal character of the building.
From the limit of these the ground falls
gently to the shores of a lake of respectable
size, and beyond that woods stretch away as
far as the eye can reach. From every side,
indeed, of this happily-placed dwelling an
undulating sea of greenery extends into the
far misty distance. All the charm of woodland
scenery is there, without that sense of
oppression which the too near neighbourhood
of trees is apt to convey. The park is not

large, nor for the matter of that is the entire
property a very extensive one ; but it
has the appearance of being boundless, no
line of demarcation being perceptible at the
points where it touches Windsor forest.

As for the interior of the house, it was
comfortable, though hardly what in these
days would be considered pretty or capable
of being rendered so. The rooms were
spacious and lofty, but of course lacked those
nooks and corners upon which we have learnt
to set so high a value ; and the furniture,
which had been purchased at an epoch when
gilding, damask, and huge mirrors were held
to exhaust the resources of art and luxury,
was — as Dick's friends had frequently informed
him — meretricious in the last degree.
By the time that Dick had decided to give his
home a mistress it had become extremely
shabby into the bargain, and as lie had the
best reasons for distrusting his own taste in
such matters, he thought he could not do
more wisely than summon a celebrated upholsterer,
turn him loose in the house, and

B 2

briefly instruct him to ' do it up and make it
decent in a couple of months.'

The celebrated upholsterer accepted the
commission with glee. He came down from
London, accompanied by his myrmidons, and
carried out his orders in a thoroughly painstaking
and conscientious manner. He did
the house up and made it decent according
to his notions, which were those of the most
modern school, and did not alloa himself to
be hampered by any slavish adherence to
congruity. The abomination of gilding was
promptly reduced ; the walls became clothed,
some in tapestry, some in an imitation of
stamped leather, others in papers of a sombre
hue ; an immense consignment of old oak —
or at any rate of oak which seemed to be
old — arrived and was distributed about the
premises ; a pleasing irregularity displayed
itself in the arrangement of the brackets
which supported the late Mr. Herbert's collection
of old Chelsea and Bow ; all the doors
were taken off their hinges, and others, made
of solid wood, were put in their place. With

those immense windows, there was no excluding
the light ; but the best that could be
done with heavy curtains was done. Then
the upholsterer rested from his labours, feeling
that he had performed his duty, and indue
course sent in an account which caused
even Dick Herbert to purse up his hips and
whistle.

Late one afternoon towards the end of
September Mss Herbert was pacing pensively
up and down the terrace already alluded
to. She lead arrived the day before, had
inspected, with elevated eyebrows and a
mental appraisal of the cost, the transformation
effected within-doors, and she was now-awaiting
the owner and his bride, Whose
home-coming was expected to take place
that evening. It has been said of an eminent
statesman that he possesses every virtue
except that of resignation. Of Miss Herbert
it was never said that she possessed every
virtue ; but from the list of those that she
did possess the same deduction would assuredly
have lead to be made. Perhaps she

was one of those persons who are born to
rule : she had, at all events, been accustomed
to rule over Farndon for a long time, and
the prospect of resigning her authority was
not agreeable to her.

Her musings as she gazed out at the
yellowing woods and the mists rising from
the lake were in keeping with the melancholy
that belonged to the season and the hour.
She herself was entering upon the autumn of
life, and there were moments when she was
painfully aware of the fact. Looking back
upon the bygone spring and summer time,
she felt that she had not made hay while the
sun shone, or that at least she had made it
after a fashion which had left her nothing to
show in the shape of crop. She had certainly
amused herself very well during a considerable
number of years, if that could be called
making hay. When she had been young and
handsome and an heiress, she had found the
world at her feet, and, finding it there, had
been unable to resist the temptation to kick
it. She had had many suitors whom she had

fooled to the top of their bent and bad
dismissed, without scruple or mercy, as soon
as they began to weary her. "Whilst she
walked on the terrace at Farndon that September
evening, she was thinking to herself,
as the generality of us think, that if she could
only take a fresh start and begin life over
again, she would act in quite another way.
But to take a fresh start was impossible ;
because, although she was still handsome and
still an heiress, she was no longer young ; and
nobody knew better than ]\Iiss Herbert that
that made all the difference. It had suited
her to assume that those lovers of hers had
been attracted to her originally by mercenary
motives. If she had succeeded in capturing
their affections, and if they had suffered when
she jilted them, that was her fair revenge, and
they had no business to complain. But now
she was inclined to be less severe in her judgment
of them, having a reason of her own for
sympathising with all lovers, and especially
nth disappointed ones. Xot one of those
men lead ever touched her heart ; she had

been wont to assure them that she really lead
no heart to be toiicliecl, and had almost believed
that she was speaking the truth in so
assuring them. It was not until her beauty
was already on the wane that, in an evil hour,
she had encountered Bertie Cunningham, and
had learnt that neither years nor experience
nor a sceptical temperament are any sort of
protection against the malady to which all
mortals are liable.

That amiable, selfish, and pleasure-loving
young man had played the part of Nemesis
with a success of which he Alas in no wise
conscious. He had flirted with Carry Herbert ;
he had admired her greatly at first ; there had
been a moment when — his finances being in a
terribly disordered condition — he had been
upon the verge of proposing to her ; but a
lucky week at Newmarket lead set him on his
legs again, and he lead decided to keep his
liberty. All this Miss Herbert knew and
understood perfectly well. She was furious
with herself for loving this boy as she did ;
her reason told her that her love was not.

perhaps could not be, returned ; yet to give
up hope and let him go was more than she
could accomplish. Sometimes she cheated
herself into thinking that he had loved her
once ; sometimes she cherished the still more
absurd decision that she mio-ht be able to
make him love her yet. But what tortured
her most of all was her knowledge that she
woukl accept him without hesitation even
though he should tell her in so many words
that it was her money, not herself, that he
desired.

An admission of that kind is not a pleasant
one for a proud woman to have to make to
herself, and it is hardly surprising that at the
age of two-and-thirty ]kiss Herbert should
have been a soured and disappointed woman
as well as a proud one. Her brothers marriage
was a serious vexation to her. She had
never played second fiddle, and could neither
imagine herself in that position nor see anyway
of escape from it. Had she been able to
feel as she had felt a year or two back, the
matter would have been simple enough. She

would have married A or B (there was still
more than one such person available) and
migrated to another little kingdom. But now
she shuddered at the bare thought of what
would formerly have seemed to her the most
natural solution of the difficulty. Perhaps
the one comfort remaining: to her was the
right which she felt to despise all those who
married for the sake of money or convenience.
In this category she considered that
she was justified in including Hope — which
was more or less of a special comfort to her.

Of course we shall detest each other
she muttered, standing out there among the
falling leaves. ' If Dick goes off and she is
left here, as she probably will be before long,
we must try to keep the house full of people.
A prolonged tete-astute would be insupportable
! '

Somebody who was crossing the lawn with
a hurried step caught sight of her at this
moment, paused irresolutely, raised his list,
and passed on. But she stopped him with a
somewhat imperious movement of her hand.

How do YOU do, Stiles ? ' she said (lie always
addressed him iu this way, as if he had been
a servant, and it was one of several reasons
that he had for disliking her) ; 'I did not
know that you were in the house.'

I have been here for a week, Miss Herbert,'
answered Jacob. (It was his habit to
call her ' ]Miss Herbert ' instead of ' Ma'am,'
and that was one reason, among others, why
she disliked him.)

Oh, really? And why are you not down
at the station, cheering and throwing up your
hat?'

I did not wish to put myself forward,'
replied Jacob. 'I heard that some of the
tenants vere to go down to the station on
horseback,' he added.

Well, you are a tenant — of a kind, are
you not ? I should have thought you would
have felt bound to give vent to your joy like
the others. But perhaps you don't rejoice ;
perhaps your tenancy is coming to an end.'

Jacob glanced cpdckly at the clear-cut
features above him. which wore a slightly

derisive expression. ' Nothing has been said
to me,' he answered hesitatingly. ' Did — did
Mr. Herbert speak to you about it ? '

Oh, no ; only there are going to be
changes ; and, as you are aware, I myself
have always considered your position a very
equivocal one.'

'I believe that you always have. Miss
Herbert.'

And it seems not unlikely that the new
mistress of the house may wish to make a
fresh arrangement of rooms. The more so as
she is by Avay of being an artist and will
probably require a studio of some kind.'

I can leave at any moment,' Jacob said,
with a faint flush on his cheeks.

I don't know that you will be required
to leave, Stiles. Mrs. Herbert may take a
liking to you ; only, if I were in your place I
should be prepared for the chance of her
doing the reverse. A new mistress is apt to
be a rather arbitrary sort of person.'

I should think,' observed Jacob—' very
likely I may be wrong — but I should think

that she would be guided in most things by
her husband's wishes.'

'I should think — and it is not so very
likely that I am wrong — that she would be
guided entirely by her own inclinations.'

'May I ask, Miss Herbert,' inquired Jacob,
with a great show of deference, ' whether you
have met this lady ? '

Of course I have met her.'

And is she — er ? '

Pretty? Oh, yes, lie is pretty.'

I see,' said Jacob demurely, with his eyes
cast down as usual.

There are few things more disagreeable
than sitting down inadvertently upon a wasp's
nest. It was a sensation of this kind that
Miss Herbert experienced dien the above
discreet insinuation reached her ears. It was
beneath her dignity to take any notice of it,
and indeed it had been beneath her dignity (if
she had thought of that in time) to speak
about her sister-inlaw at all to this low-born
young man ; but the truth was that she had
stopped him because, being thoroughly out of

temper with the world at large, she had longed
to say something disagreeable to somebody.
Now it is always a mistake to say disagreeable
things to your inferiors : for they either hold
their tongues — in which case you feel that you
have been a brute ; or else they have the
audacity to retort — and then, if you have any
respect for yourself, it is you who must remain
silent. The sound of the village bells,
followed by that of distant cheering, put an
end to a colloquy which had lasted too long.
Miss Herbert turned away and walked to the
other end of the terrace, while Jacob escaped
into the house.

From the spot where Miss Herbert was
now standing she could, by craning her neck a
little, get a glimpse of the avenue, and thus
she presently became aware of the approach
of a somewhat disorderly cavalcade. The form
of Mr. Potter, the land-steward, could be discerned
leading the way on his roan horse ;
behind him jogged a throng of burly farmers,
in the midst of whom was Dick Herbert,
driving a mail-phaeton, with his wife by his

side ; a considerable number of farm-labourers
were keeping up with the carriage on foot,
shouting lustily as they ran.

How truly ridiculous I ' exclaimed Miss
Herbert under her breath. • What idiots they
look ! and how poor Dick must hate it all !
If I were he, I should offer them an instant
reduction of rent and drinks all round to go
away.'

Then, as the' angle of the house hid the
procession from view, ' I suppose I must go
and do my share of the humbug now,' she
murmured ; and passing slowly through the
drawing-room and the hall, she reached the
entrance just as Dick pulled up his horses and
turned to make the little speech which was
awaited from him. It was a very little speech:
his sister listened to it from the top of the steps
and was shaken with inward laughter.

I'm awfully obliged to you fellows forgiving
us such a hearty welcome. So is
Mrs. Herbert ; she wishes me to express her
thanks. We shall value very much the piece
of plate which you were so kind as to present

to us on our marriage. Hope to meet
you all at dinner before long. These are
bad limes for farmers ; not particularly good
ones for landlords either. But it can't be
helped ; so we won't says any more about
it. Good-night, all of you.'

After this brief sample of Dick's eloquence
there was a good deal of cheering, and then
the assembly dispersed ; the humbler portion
of it, no doubt, getting its thirst assuaged
before leaving the premises.

Miss Herbert advanced to o-reet the bride.
Shall I kiss her ? Probably it will be expected
of me.' So she bent forward and
just touched with her lips the cool, fresh
cheek which was presented to her. Then,
drawing back a little, she took a keen survey
of her supplanter. ' Why, the woman looks
positively radiant ! ' was her unspoken comment.
' Can she be really enamoured of Dick,
after all ? '

At that moment Hope certainly bore all
the outward semblance of a happy bride.
Her eyes were sparkling, the excitement or

the fresh air had brought the colour into
her face, and she looked, as Miss Herbert
was fain to admit, even prettier than she
had looked on her wedding-day. Dick, who
had stopped to say a few words to the
servants, joined the two ladies before either
of them had spoken, and then they all three
entered the drawing-room together.

What a pretty room ! ' exclaimed Hope.

A brio-ht fire was burnings in the urate :
the wax candles in the sconces which had
been placed between the tapestried panels
sled a mellow light upon chairs, tables, curtains,
and other articles of furniture, which
were undoubtedly pretty in themselves, and
a plentiful supply of flowers had been brought
in from the hot-houses.

I suppose it is pretty,' agreed lier husband
dubiously, stroking his clin, wlule he
surveyed the achievements of the upholsterer.
It has rather a stage sort of look tome
; but I expect that is my lack of artistic
perception. Have you been over the luiuse.
Carry?'

Vol. H. C

I have,' answered Miss Herbert.

And what do yon think of it ? '

I think that I would rather you paid the
bill than i; •

'Oh, bother the bill!' said Dick. 'My
only fear is that Hope may tell me it is all
wrong. I shan't let her see more of it than
I can help to-night. Suppose we go and
dress for dinner now.'

At dinner Miss Herbert had opportunities
for gauging the affection that existed between
the newly-married couple, and was compelled
to abandon all her preconceived ideas upon
that point. ' They are nothing more nor less
than a pair of lovers,' she thought, not without
some disgust ; ' and I foresee that it will
be my pleasing occupation to be perpetually
hiding myself lest I should be in their way.'
She remarked aloud : ' You have made a
very long honeymoon of it. Where have
you been, and what have you been doing
all this time ? '

Upon my word, I don't quite know,*
answered Dick. ' We have been dawdhnf]:

about — Switzerland and Venice, and the
Italian lakes, you know.'

'Living in hotels among herds of tourists,
and being dragged off every day to see sights
by a courier. weren't you bored to death ? '

Well, no,' replied Dick, ^ I don't think
so. Were we bored, Hope ? '

'I was not,' answered Hope, with a smile.

You see, we were in Venice most of the
time, and there where plenty of pictures for
her to look at there,' observed Dick explanatorily.


But that did not account for the meaning
look which Mrs. Herbert had sent across the
table at her husband and which Carry had
caught on its passage. Eeally it was a little
provoking. If these two people had married
for love, why on earth could they not have
said so, instead of cheating others into the
belief that they merited pity and contempt?
To be sure, they might still deserve both ;
everything depends upon the point of view ;
but Miss Herbert felt that if she were to be
logical her standpoint must now be one of

c 2

sympathy. In any case, this kind of thing-was
not Likely to hist long ; and she was kind .
enough to give Hope an inkling of what
might be anticipated as soon as they had
adjourned to the drawing-room after dinner,
leaving Dick to this claret and his cigarette.

I suppose,' she began, ' that Dick is full
of shooting engagements, as usual.'

I have not heard of any,' Hope answered.

Perhaps he hasn't read his letters yet.
Generally he is in great request at this time
of year. He doesn't shoot his own coverts
till later in the season. I have always tried
to pay visits in the autumn, because it isn't
particularly lively to be quite alone in a place
like this ; but of course we can ask people
down to stay now.'

Shall I not be invited to go with Dick,
then ? ' asked Hope.

Carry laughed. ' Very likely you will be
invited, for form's sake ; but I don't think I
should accept if I were you. Women are
not really Avant at those big shooting-parties,
you know.'

Eut I don't know said Hope ; ' the truth
is that I know nothing at all about such
things. There were plenty of women at
Helston while the shooting was goings on.'

Oh, Helston is another affair altogether.
Shooting' there isn't the serious business that
it is in the houses which Dick frequents.
Besides, I fancy that even the most devoted
of husbands appreciates a holiday every now"
and then. As for Dick, he has been in the
habit of doing exactly as he pleases all his
life long, and he is a little bit too old to
change now.'

Possibly it might please him to take me
with him,' suggested Hope.

At this Carry laughed again. ' Oh, it
might, no doubt ; but if I were in your
place I wouldn't make too sure of that. If
3'ou want him always to look as amiable ashe
did this evening, I should strongly advise
you to let him have a long tether.'

I have not the slightest intention of
keeping him at home against his will, or of
following him about when he doesn't want

me answered Hope ; ' only I certainly shall
not care to have visitors here during his
absence. I can pnt up with my own company
better than most people.'

She spoke with apparent good humour ;
but the sound of her voice showed that she
was slightly annoyed, and Miss Herbert
thought that that allusion to her own company
was probably meant to he significant.

It was perhaps just as well that Dick
came in from the dining-room before any
further exchange of ideas could take place
between two ladies, each of whom was thoroughly
determined not to make the stupid
mistake of quarrelling with the other.

JACOB A S A II E R 0.

The virtues and advantages of early rising
have been extolled from time immemorial.
The advocates of sitting up late have so
little chance of being listened to that they
seldom venture to assert themselves, and
must take comfort from the thought that
their habit is more imitated, if less admired,
than the other. However, both practices
have one advantage in common, namely, that
of increased elbow-room for' him who adopts
them, and a sense of self-approbation arising
from the knowledge that he has all his wits
about him, while so many of his fellow-mortals
are horizontal, unconscious, and quite powerless
for good or evil. It was probably for this
reason that that young misanthrope Jacob
Stiles was wont to take his walks abroad at an

hour when the binds at Farndon Court were
still down and nobody was stirring, unless it
mi^^ht be the rooms taking the horses out to

O o o

exercise.

Jacob slipped out noiselessly, as usual, on
the morning after the return of the master of
the house ; and a very fine morning it was.
An autumn sun, with little enough power in it,
but luminosity enough to satisfy the soul of
any rising artist, was sending slant rays across
the drenched grass of the park ; the mists
were curling up from the lake, and the woods,
in all the glory of varied colour, suggested no
thought of death or decay at that moment of
general aAvakeniuf?. Jacob strolled along; one
of the gravelled paths which led through
clumps of rhododendrons to the shrubbery
filled his lungs with the keen morning air,
rejoiced in the fresh, moist smell of the earth,
and thought to himself — as he sometimes did
before the cares of the day came upon him —
that this world, despite all that seems to prove
the contrary, must really be a place in which
man is meant to be happy.

If this back had not been turned to the
house, he would have seen that another early
riser had emerged from it and T^^as following
in his footsteps. Also, if he had possessed
that power of thought-reading which has
found so much favour with our half-sceptical,
half-credulous generation, and which would be
so excessively inconvenient if it were real, he
might have discovered that that other person's
reflections were pretty nearly identical with
his own. Xever yet had Hope known any
troubles which a bright morning could not
dissipate, at least for the time being. It is
probable that she had not retired in the best of
spirits after her conversation with her sister-in-law
on the previous evening ; but when one is
twenty years of age and in perfect health,
heaviness is apt to endure but for a night.
Hope had now been two months married, and
she had spoken nothing but the truth in
saying that she had not felt bored during that
time. If she and her husband were not precisely
the lovers that bliss Herbert had hastily
assumed them to be, they were at any rate

excellent friends, and as Hope had never expected
more than that, she had every reason
to be satisfied. Dick had been kindness itself.
Certainly no lover could have been more
anxious to surround her with luxuries and to
make her journey enjoyable for her ; and now
that she had been brought back to her new
home, she found it all that she could have
wished. When she had Walked some little
distance she turned and looked back at the
house, with its steep roofs glistening in the
sun, and had no fault to find with its architecture.
It was not so grand a place as Helston
Abbey ; but it had a more habitable air, and
seemed to smile in a friendly manner upon its
young mistress. Hope improved the occasion
by a few good resolutions. She was not going
to be fretful and capricious again, as she knew
that she had sometimes been during her engagement
; she was not going to waste an^^
more time in wondering whether her lot was
exactly that which she would have chosen if
she had been free to choose ; above all things,
she was not going to be exacting. What,

under the circumstances, could be more absurd
than that she should show herself exacting ?
Of course Dick must be allowed to go away
and stay away as often and as long as he
pleased ; when he came home it would be her
duty to make his home pleasant for him. that
was all. It was true that that duty might be a
little more easy to perform if his house had
not happened to contain a sister of cynical
proclivities ; but Hope was determined not to
dwell upon drawbacks that fine, sunshiny
morning ; so she turned away again and
resumed her walk towards the shrubbery.

Thus it was that Jacob, who was standing
with folded arms, gazing absently at the view,
became conscious of her approach. She did
not see him ; and, obeying the impulse which
was always his first impulse on catching sight
of a fellow-creature, he concealed himself
behind a belt of evergreens and waited. She
passed quite close to him, walking slowly and
swinging the sunshade which she carried in her
hand, while he, peering between the branches,
scanned her features with eager curiosity.

His verdict upon her was that Miss Herbert
had made use of a very inadequate expression
in describing her as pretty. ' I am not at all
sure,' he mused, ' that she is not the most
beautiful woman I have ever seen. She hasa
c^ood face too : I don't think she will want to
turn me adrift ; though God knows it would
be no ofreat misfortune to me to be turned
out of Farndon ! '

Then he became more analytical. Jacob's
art-studies had been conducted in harmony
with those canons for which Tristram could
not find words to express his scorn, and knew
what the ideal human form ought to be. He
measured Hope by this standard and found
that her defects were too trifling to deserve
mention. After that he proceeded to somewhat
subtler but not less confident conclusions.
There is an odd sort of expression in those
grey eyes of hers ; she seeing to be looking for
something that she hasn't found yet. She is
not unhappy, but she is not happy either : and
it would surprise me very much to hear that
she was in love with her husband.'

This shows that Jacob's powers of observation
were of no mean order, and that, for all
his disinclination to look his neighbours in
the face, he must have studied them surreptitiously
to some purpose. Indeed, if he had
not done so he could hardly have been the
very promising artist that he was.

Hope, meanwhile, pursued lier leisurely
way, happily unconscious that behind the
bushes on her right hand there lurked a youth
capable of drawing such startlingly rapid deductions
from a mere glimpse of her face. On
reaching the end of the shrubbery, she found
herself at an iron gate, beyond which a footpath
led across the park ; and as she had still
plenty of time before her, she wandered down
this until at length she came to the margin
of the lake, where she found a punt moored.
It is a peculiarity of punts, as distinguished
from other boats, that nobody can look at
them without instantly wishing to get into
them and sit down. Hope experienced this
desire, and, although the seats of the punt in
question were still wet with the nisfht dews

lie 2fave effect to it. She lead not been seated
long when another ambition, almost equally
natural and harmless, took possession of her.
Some fifty yards away from her there was a
small island, round the shores of which a bed
of water-lilies had spread itself. The silver
cups dotted over that expanse of flat green
leaves were all the more tempting because
they were out of reach, and after Hope had
contemplated them longingly for a little
while, and had noticed that a long pole was
lying at her feet, she could not resist unfastening
the painter which attached the punt to its
stake.

Now everybody knows that water-lilies
are not easy flowers to pluck ; but everybody
does not know — because there are comparatively
so few people who have tried it — that
it is even more difficult for a novice to manipulate
a punt-pole. Hope pushed herself off
from the bank quite successfully ; but she
soon discovered that to shape her course for
any given point was another matter. Also, the
punt-pole had a disagreeable tendency to get

under the bottom of the punt and drag her,
head first, into the water after it. Father
than let it succeed in this malignant intention,
she allowed it at last to sip out of her fingers
altogether — a thing she never would have
done if she had realised what must be the inevitable
result of such imprudence. To be
drifting about in a fiat-bottomed boat close to
dry land, yet hopelessly removed from it, and
to see the punt-pole which might be the salvation
of you floating in a tantalising manner
just beyond your grasp, is a position trying
aUke to the patience and the dignity. Hope
would gladly have paid five pounds to anyone
who would have rescued her from it ; but as
nobody to whom five pounds could be offered
was in sight, and as she could not bring herself
to the humiliating course of shrieking' for
assistance, there was nothing for her to do
but to sit down and make the best of it. 'I
suppose they will begin to look for me when
I don't turn up at breakfast,' lie reflected,
and then there will be a hue and cry. If it
were only Dick I shouldn't mind so much ;

but I feel sure that Carry knows how to use
a punt-pole, and will be quite unable to
understand what I dropped the thing into the
water for. Perhaps, if I wait long enough, it
will float back to me.'

But it did nothing of the kind. On the
contrary, it drifted in the opposite direction
; and Hope was disconsolately wondering
whether she would be drowned if she jumped
overboard when, to her great joy, she caught
sight of a slim young man hastening across
the slopes of the park with an evident intention
of offering help. This was no other
than Jacob Stiles, who from the wooded hill
above had watched Hope's proceedings, and
had seen what had happened to her. When
he reached the brink of the lake he paused fora
moment in his irresolute way, and then,
raisin? his hat, called out ' You have lost
your punt-pole, haven't you? Shall I come
and lend you a hand ? '

Oh, please do ! ' cried Hope, without
stopping to ask herself how her request was
to be complied with.

Jacob made no reply, but sat down and
began to unlace his boots.

What are you going to do ? ' asked Hope
anxiously. ' Can't you go and get a boat ? '

The boat-house is half a mile away, and
I don't know who has the key,' answered
Jacob, kicking off his boots. 'Don't be
alarmed ; I can swim like a fish.'

'Oh, but you mustn't! — you really
mustn't I ' remonstrated Hope. And then,
under her breath, ' What an extraordinary
young man ! Surely he can't be going to
take all his clothes off! '

He was not so indiscreet. He only divested
himself of his coat, Waistcoat, and hat,
waded a short distance into the water and
then struck out. The punt-pole was soon
captured and restored.

Xow, do you think you can manage to
shove yourself back 't ' he asked rather breathlessly.


Oh, yes, if you tell me what to do,'
answered Hope ; ' lout hadn't I better try to
drag you into the boat first ? '

Vol. IL D

I am all right, thank you,' said Jacob ;
I can swim back in less time than it would
take me to scramble into the punt.'

That seemed likely enough, and, not to keep
him longer in the water than she could help,
Hope said no more, but followed his instructions,
and so was enabled in the course of a
minute or two to set foot on shore again.
Then she began to feel very sorry and very
much ashamed, and expressed herself to that
effect.

Why did you not go and get the boat as
I told you ? ' she asked reproachfully.

Because it would have taken such a lons^
time,' answered Jacob, who was standing upto
his knees in water and making the punt
fast. 'Was it those water-lilies that you
wanted ? '

Yes ; it was very stupid of me. T wish I
had not happened to see them.'

I can easily get you some, if that is all,'
remarked Jacob, unfastening the knot which
lie had just tied.

Indeed,' exclaimed Hope, ' you will dono

such thing! What are you thinking of?
Your teeth are chattering as it is, and you
look quite blue with cold. You must go home
at once. I won't keep you even to say thank
you ; but I shall see you again soon, I hope.
I am Mrs. Herbert. Perhaps you live somewhere
near this ? '

I live here,' Jacob replied, smiling. ' My
name is Stiles — Jacob Stiles.' He brought
out the two last words with something of an
effort, for it was always painful to him to pronounce
that plebeian name of his. Moreover,
he perceived that Mrs. Herbert had mistaken
him for an equal, and to correct mistakes of
that kind is what nobody ever enjoys. ' Have
you not heard of me ? ' he asked, seeing that
she looked none the wiser.

Hope shook her head. The fact is that
Dick had only once chanced to mention his
protege to her, and that was so long ago that
the circumstance had escaped her memory.
She was a good deal puzzled to account for
the presence at Farndon of an inmate who
had the appearance and voice of a gentleman,

D 2

though his existence had apparently been
thought too unimportant to be made known
to her, and she would gladly have put a few
more questions to him. However, even if he
had been quite dry, she might have hesitated
to do that, and to cross-examine him in his
present dripping condition would have been
tantamount to manslaughter. So she said :
'You really must not stand here talking
another minute, Mr. Stiles. Do go back to
the house, and run the whole way, please.'

I should find it rather easier to walk, if
you don't mind,' answered Jacob, emboldened
by the friendliness of her manner to adopt a
somewhat more familiar tone than was customary
with him.

Well, as it is all up hill, and your clothes
are so heavy with the water — only mind you
walk very fast, and pray don't lose any more
time. We shall meet later in the day —
that is, unless you think you had better go to
bed.'

There will be no necessity for that,' said
Jacob.

He had now resumed his coat and boots,
and was without excuse for Hnorerino; longer :
so he did as he was told, and was soon out of
sight.

Hope followed him at a less rapid pace.
When she entered the breakfast-room she
found Dick and Carry already seated, and
perusing their respective letters.

I have made a good start,' she remarked
as she took her place ; ' I have had an adventure
already. Why did 'you never tell me
anything about a Mr. Stiles, who says he lives
here ? '

Probably because it never occurred to
him that Stiles could be the hero of an adventure,'
observed Carry. ' On second thoughts
though, there would be a certain appropriateness
in it if he were ; for he happens to bean
adventurer.'

I don't know why you are always so
down on poor Jake, Carry,' said Dick. ' He
is no more an adventurer than I am ; he is an
artist — and an uncommonly clever one too,
for that matter. I thought I had spoken to

you about him, Hope. How has he been
distinguishing himself this morning ? '

By plunging into an ice-cold lake With his
clothes on,' answered Hope. And then she
gave a brief account of the episode alluded to,
whereat both her husband and Miss Herbert
laughed, the former good-humouredly, the
latter ironically.

I condole with you,' Carry said. ' It was
hard luck to have such a compliment paid to
you by a romantic-looking youth, and then to
discover that he was only a Jacob Stiles after
all. If you confine yourself to adventures of
that kind, you won't find Farndon very exciting,
I am afraid.'

I dare say it will be exciting enough to
satisfy me,' answered Hope rather drily. She
could not help thinking that Carry had every
inclination to treat her to the excitement of a
pitched battle ; and that seemed a little hard,
considering how pacific her own dispositions
were.

As soon as breakfast was over, Dick asked
her whether she would like to o-q over the

house with him, a proposal to which she
readily assented. She expressed herself much
pleased with all that she saw ; and, indeed,
the bedrooms afforded little scope for criticism.
On the first floor Dick put his head into a
large and comfortably-furnished sitting-room,
and, having ascertained that it was empty,
threw open the door. ' These are Carry's
quarters,' he explained. ' Carry is a young
woman of fortune, I ought to tell you. She
has her own servants and her own horses, and
all the rest of it. I suppose she would have
her own house too, only her uncles and aunts
kicked up such a row when she talked about
living alone. I hope you won't find her
awfully in your way here.'

He cast a rather appealing glance at his
wife, who smiled back upon him reassuringly.

Don't be afraid,' she answered ; ' I mean
to conduct myself properly.'

And as they perfectly understood one
another, there was no need to dwell any
longer upon a ticklish subject.

Xow,' said Dick, leading the way downstairs

again, ' I'll show you my den. I had it
locked up while those furniture people were
rampaging about, so you won't find it as
spick-and-span as the rest of the house ; but
such as it is, it's what I'm accustomed to, and
I didn't want it meddled with.'

Spick-and-span it certainly was not ; but,
like every other room in Taunton Court, it
was large, airy, and cheerful. An immense
oak writing-table, facing the windows, was
covered with a mass of newspapers, letters,
bills, and other documents, tossed pell-mell
upon it by its untidy owner ; the walls exhibited
every known variety of gun and rifle,
besides numerous fishing-rods and a few
magnificent heads of wapiti, ibex, antelope
and other big game. But it was not upon
these things that Hope's eyes rested ; for the
moment that she passed through the doorway
she caught sight of two easels, supporting two
pictures, with every detail of which she had
good reason to be familiar. It must be confessed
til at her first sensation on recoo^nisimr
these works of art was one of keen disappointment

; but the next instant lie remembered
that there vas nothing to be disappointed
about. A few months ago it might have
been another affair ; but now, what could it
signify ?

So YOU were my one and only patron,'
she said, turning to her husband with a slight
laugh. 'I might have suspected as much.'

Well, yes,' answered Dick apologetically.
You see, I thought I should like to have
something of yours, and '

And you thought you would like to give
me a Httle false encouragement at the same
time. Thank you ; it was kind of you, Dick.'

Intentions were good,' murmured Dick,
who perhaps knew more of what was passing
in his wife's mind than she supposed.

She turned away with a sigh. 'All that
belongs to the past,' she said. 'The grapes
are sour now, and I don't want to he an artist
any more. Tell me about the real artist — Mr.
Stiles. Does he live here always ? And how
comes he to be here at all ? '

Jake ? Oh, there isn't much to tell about

him. I took him up — adopted him, you may
say — when he was a little chap, and he has
made his way by his own exertions. They
tell me he will be an Ea. one of these days.
Would you like to see his studio ? We shall
find him at work most likely.'

Unless he is in bed with symptoms of
rheumatic fever coming on,' remarked Hope
^ The very least I can do is to inquire after
him.'

Jacob, however, Alas not in bed, and
declared himself to be none the worse for the
cold bath that he had taken. Hope noticed
a change in his voice and a certain constraint
in his manner, which made her fancy that he
was not best pleased at being intruded upon ;
but that did not deter her from lingering;
a while in the great bare studio which had
been assigned to hin at the top of the house.
There was not very much to look at ; for it
was Jacob's system never to undertake more
than one work at a time, and the canvas
before which he was standing exhibited only
a rough outline. Yet, rough though it was.

it interested Hope, who recognised in it a
dexterity such as she had never been able to
attain to.

I ^^dsh I could do that ! ' she sighed.

Jacob had none of the pride that apes
humility. ' It takes a long time to learn he
said ; ' but I think almost anybody who
chooses to take the trouble can learn it.'

Ah,' said Hope rather sadly, ' that is what
I used to think ; but I know better now.'

And then a conversation began in which
Dick felt that he was in no way qualified to
take a part, so he said : ' I think I'll just go
round to the stables. You two can entertain
each other for a bit, I dare say.'

Jacob seemed to breathe more freely after
he was gone. He had a good deal to say
about painting, and said it with modesty and
knowledge of his subject, and after a time he
produced a portfolio of sketches with which
Hope was greatly struck. His style was the
opposite of Tristram's, being chiefly remarkable
for its exquisite finish ; but there was
nothing small in his treatment of a subject,

and his arrangement of colour, light, and shade
had the ease of a master of his craft.

You ought to be very happy ! ' exclaimed
Hope rather enviously, when she came to the
end of the collection. ' Have you sent anything
to the Academy yet ? '

Not yet ; I thought it best to wait until
I was pretty sure of success.'

But of course you will exhibit soon ; and
then all of a sudden you will find yourself
famous.'

Perhaps,' said Jacob.

The listlessness of his tone surprised Hope,
who looked up at him With inquiring eyes.

Are you not ambitious ? ' she asked.

I don't think I have much ambition,' he
answered. ' I shall be satisfied if I can make
enough to live upon.'

You are quite sure of being able to do
that ; and, after all, that is a great deal. At
least, I used to think so. Did Mr. Herbert
tell you that I once intended to be an artist ? '

He said that you painted very well.'

But not well enough, unfortunately. I

was more ambitious than you are ; I wanted
to excel. Still, like you, I should have been
contented if I could have earned my bread by
my brush.'

Jacob looked a little puzzled. ' '* Earning
your bread '' is only a way of speaking with
you, Mrs. Herbert ; to me it means more than
you can understand, perhaps. I — I am living
upon charity now.'

He flushed slightly as he uttered the last
words, and Hope, to relieve him, said : ' That
was just my own position. My father lost all
his money at the time of his death, and it was
quite necessary that I should do something to
support myself. It is all over now and I
don't mind talking about it ; but it was a
dreadful grief to me when I was told that I
should never succeed.'

How could anybody know that ? '

I suppose there are not many people who
could have known it, or who would have
liked to say so if they had ; but it was a
great artist who told me. and I am sure he
was not mistaken. He knew how it would

hurt me to hear the truth, and that made it
all the more kind of him to speak honestly.'

Jacob was standing with one foot upon a
chair, his elbow resting on his knee and his
hand supporting his chin. He looked down
with curious, compassionate eyes at Hope,
who was seated near him. 'Was this long
Hoo ? ' he asked.

Oh, no ; only a few months — although
it seems like years.'

She did not know what a quick-witted
observer she had to deal with ; but in truth
a far duller fellow than Jacob would have
divined the history of Mrs. Herbert's engagement
and marriage after that. She herself
felt that she had been a little too communicative,
and changed the subject.

Jacob was very willing to talk about art
and pleased to be talked to ; but she did not
succeed in breaking down his reticence or in
inducing him to give her any information
about himself. She went away at last, feeling
sorry for the poor young man, although she
could have c^iven no definite reason for her

pity, and was horrified to find that she had
taken up rather more than an hour of his
valuable time. ' What a nuisance I must
have been to him ! ' she thought.

She would have been very much astonished
had she been told that that hour of
conversation had earned her a friend whose
gratitude and devotion would cease only with
his life. Just so a vagrant dog, acquainted
with the rouo-h usage of the streets and the
kicks of the passers-by, will attach himself to
some kind-hearted person who stoops unthinkingly
to pat him on the head, and will
never leave that kind-hearted person again.
And this is one reason why kind-hearted
persons and others — especially others — should
beware of noticing stray dogs.

Chapter Xviii.

IIOrE RECEIVES Visitors.

If Hope did not as yet feel any such attachment
for Jacob Stiles as he felt for lier, she
was nevertheless greatly interested in him
and anxious to hear a little more of his
antecedents, because he seemed to require
interpretation in more Avays than one. Dick,
when interrogated, was apt to become so
hopelessly monosyllabic that she did not think
it worth while to pursue him to the stables
and attack him with questions ; but, happening
to find her sister-in-la^v in the drawings
she was able to glean a part of the
information that she desired from that quarter.
'I look upon Jack Stiles,' Miss Herbert
remarked, ' as a living example of the folly
of heedless benevolence. For reasons best

known to himself, my brother picked him up
when he was a chill, brought him into the
house, and gave him what I suppose you
might call the education of a gentleman.
The natural consequence is that he is now
about as miserable a being as you will meet
with anywhere. At all events, he looks so.
He is neither fish, flesh, nor good red herrings.'


He is an artist,' said Hope.

Is he ? I can't pretend to your knowledge
of such subjects ; but even if he is, I should
imagine it was not much consolation to him
to be an artist when nature evidently meant
him to be a groom, or possibly a huntsman.
Personally I don't like Stiles ; his manners
are not engaging, and he always gives me the
impression that he would be insolent if he
dared ; but, to do him justice, he is a fine
rider, and though he doesn't appear to have
much pluck at ordinary times, he has plenty
of it on horseback. I have a mare in the
stables that I wanted to get rid of two years
ago because she frightened me by the way

Vol. H. E

she touched timber. Stiles asked to be
allowed to take lier in hand, and now I
wouldn't part with her for any money. His
system was to cram her at the biggest fence
he could find and give her a rattling fall ;
and three or four lessons were enough for
her. It was a rather more heroic remedy
than most people would like to adopt, but it
was completely successful.'

And you allowed him to risk his life in
that way ! ' exclaimed Hope.

Carry laughed. ' He did it to please
himself, I presume ; apparently he doesn't
set much store by his life. As for me, I
really didn't care whether I kept the mare
or not, and I can't say that I cared very much
whether Stiles broke his neck or not either.
You must try not to be shocked by my
brutal frankness of speech ; it's a family
failing.'

Hope thought she would let that observation
pass without comment. * But I don't yet
understand,' she said, ' why Mr. Stiles should
be miserable — if he is miserable.'

You had better not call him J/r. Stiles :
lie is not accustomed to it. I don't think
there can be much doubt about his being
miserable ; and the reason is what I told you.
He won't do for the drawing-room and he
won't do for the servants' hall ; so he has
to live in a sort of no-marshland and eat
his dinner in his studio, which, when you
come to think of it, must be dull work.'

Of course it must be ; and it seems very
cruel to deprive the poor young man of any
kind of company. Why should he not dine
with us ? '

'I dare say he would like that very
much ; but unfortunately it is not practicable.
Humble as I am, I can't say that I should
enjoy being taken in to dinner by Jacob Stiles,
and we certainly could not ask our friends to
sit down beside him. It is all Dick's fault.
He ought to have handed him over to the
stud-groom in the first instance, instead of
sending him to an expensive school.'

But as he did not do that ' began

Hope.

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILUNU*;.

As he did not do that, the hapless Stiles
must get what comfort he can out of painting
pictures and occasionally being rolled upon
by refractory mares, or plunging into ponds
to rescue ladies who have managed to get
adrift. It is bad luck for Stiles ; but it can't
be helped.'

This sounded a little peremptory, considering
that Miss Herbert was not the
mistress of the house ; and, in spite of her
wise resolutions, Hope could not refrain from
arguing the point. ' My father always used
to say that talent has the same privileges as
birth,' she remarked. ' Besides, when a man
has been brought up as a gentleman and
behaves like one, that ought to be sufficient.
I will ask Hick what he thinks about it.'

Two vertical lines appeared on Miss
Herbert's forehead, and it looked very much
as if her teeth were set behind her rather
thin lips ; but she, too, Jiad formed certain
resolutions, and when lie opened her mouth
it was only to say, 'I had been wondering
what line you would take up with regard to

stiles. I varied him that you should very
likely wish to turn him out, neck and crop ;
but he had the happy inspiration of rushing
into the water after you, and now his position
h assured. At the same time, I doubt
whether Dick will be prepared to receive him
as a member of the family.'

And, considerably to Hope's surprise and
mortification, it turned out that Dick was not
so prepared. She took the first opportunity
of speaking to him upon the subject, and
he answered without any hesitation that it
wouldn't do.

Jake used to dine with me when he
was younger and before Carry came to live
here,' he said ; ' but that was another affair
altogether. Things are best as they are for
the present, and if he goes on as he has
beijun. he will have a home of his own before
very lonir.'

I think,' said Hope, ' that he has been
rather unfairly treated.'

Do you ? Well, perhaps he has in someways
; and yet I hardly see what else could

have been done. Anyhow, it wouldn't be
either for his comfort or for ours to make a
change at this time of day.'

It might help the conversation out a
little,' said Hope ; for up to now her husband
had gratified all her wishes, when he had
not anticipated them, and it was grievous to
think of Carry's triumph.

Dick rubbed his ear and looked contrite.
This sort of thing must be awfully slow
work for you, of course,' he said. ' We must
get some people down here to amuse you.
Couldn't you ask a lot of your friends ? '

'I could, no doubt, if I possessed a lot of
friends,' answered Hope ; ' but as I have none
I must submit to the slowness.' After this
disagreeable speech her conscience smote her,
and she added humbly, ' I am sorry I spoke
so crossly, Dick ; I don't really find it slow
here at all.'

'My dear girl,' answered Dick good-humouredly,
' you weren't a bit cross ; and
as for your finding it slow, you must — you
can't help it. I know that if I were in your

place I should perfectly detest being shut up
in a country house with — with '

With whom ? ' inquired Hope.

I was going to say with nothing particular
to do. I'll get Francis and one or two
other fellows to come down and shoot next
week. They will be better than nobody.'

Hope turned away, without replying.
The matter-of-course and perfectly philosophical
way in which Dick took it for granted
that his society would not be acceptable to
her vexed her, and made her angry with
him. She and he were not lovers, it was
true ; but they were friends — at least, that
was what he had averred when lie proposed
to her — and friends ought surely to be able
to hive together without feeling the need of
constant excitement. ' It is one word for me
and two for himself,' she thought, rather
ungratefully. In truth, to ask a party of
men down to shoot seemed rather a roundabout
was of providing her with a change of
company.

Possibly this aspect of the case may have

presented itself also to Dick ; for when, before
the post went out, he requested Hope to write
the necessary invitations, these proved to befor
the most part addressed to ladies whose
husbands were shooting men, and who were
begged to put up with a few quiet days at
Farndon for their husbands' sake. With most
of these ladies Hope was already more or
less acquainted, and she neither liked nor
disliked any of them. Mr. Francis she did
rather dislike, yet was prepared to extend to
him the welcome due to Dick's most intimate
friend.

Everybody accepted, and everybody came.
It seemed not unlikely that the alacrity of
these good people was stimulated by a desire
to see and criticise the bride, and it is certain
that, when they assembled, the eyes of all of
them were fixed upon lier with a curiosity of
which she was fully conscious. This she did
not object to, thinking it natural enough, if
a trifle embarrassing ; and it ceased to be
perceptible after the first evening. But she
could not help resenting the closeness with

which Mr. Francis watched her throughout
his stay, because she felt sure that he was
busily taking notes the whole time of the
many particulars in which she failed to come
up to his notion of what Dick Herbert's wife
ought to be. Also, she fancied that he communicated
his impressions to Carry, with
whom he appeared to be upon exceedingly
friendly terms.

On the evening before his departure she
committed the indiscretion of asking him
Avh ether he remembered a certain conversation
which she had had with him a few
months before in Eaton Square.

He made gestures to simulate the rending
of his clothes and the heaping of ashes on his
head. ' Mrs. Herbert,' he said, ' the memory
of that dreadful conversation will remain with
me to my dying day. I would ask you to
forgive me only I know that that would be
useless.'

I will forgive you,' said Hope, ' if you
will withdraw what you said on that occasion.'


Francis made a grimace. ' The condition
is a hard one to swallow,' he remarked. 'I
don't think recantations are much good, as a
general rule. Galileo recanted, and was sent
to prison all the same ; Cranmer recanted,
and had to recant his recantation at the stake.
You see, the worst of it is that I meant what
I said. Only you might bear in mind that I
didn't mean it to apply to you.'

But you think that it applies to me,'
persisted Hope.

My dear Mrs. Herbert, is it quite fair to
impute thoughts to me which I have never
expressed ? But I will continue to be honest
and tell you the simple truth, though I shall
probably make you hate me worse than ever.
I don't know what to think ; I am puzzled.'

Is not that, perhaps, because you are so
very clever ? People who are always trying
to find out what lies beneath the surface must
often be puzzled, I suppose ; for it does
occasionally happen that there is nothing to
discover.'

Didn't I tell you that I should make you

hate me worse than ever I It can do me no
harm now, and it may do you some good, if I
assure you that every word I said about Dick
that night was Gospel truth.'

I have no doubt you believe it to be so,
and I quite recollect all that you said. Dick's
wife was to make herself his shadow, otherwise
all sorts of terrible things would happen ;
wasn't that it ? But, do you know, I fancy
that Dick is quite contented with the one
shadow which he already possesses. He has
never yet asked me to share a single one of
his pursuits ; but, profiting by your kind
advice, I have offered my company once or
twice, and his polite resignation has been
beautiful to witness. This emboldens me to
think that perhaps, after all, I may understand
my husband almost as well as you do.'

A gleam of sudden and intense amusement
swept across Mr. Francis's face. He was
thinking to himself, ' As I live, the woman's
jealous ! and Herbert is a deep diplomatist,
without knowing it ! ' But he said aloud, with
suitable gravity : ' Don't be weary in well-doing,

Mrs. Herbert ; in due season 3^011 will
reap if you faint not.'

And, with that, he turned on his heel,
leaving Hope very angry.

Whatever may have been Mr. Francis's
opinion of his friend's wife, Hope's other
guests carried away with them the memory of
a pleasant and gracious hostess. She exerted
herself to make their stay agreeable, she found
them easy enough to entertain, and she was
heartily glad when they all took themselves
off. But what was far more delightful than
this was Carry's announcement that she intended
to give herself an indefinite leave of
absence. She had a round of visits to pay,
she said, and really could not tell how long
they might last. She might be back in a
week or two, or she might be away for a
couple of months. ' I go and return as the
fancy takes me,' she explained. To which
Hope could only reply that that was the true
way to enjoy life, and inwardly trust that her
sister-in-law mit^ht long remain free from the
fancy to return.

Whither Dick's sentiments were identical
with her own she could not tell for certain,
because he was so silent and never spoke evil
of the absent ; but there were sio-ns that increased
freedom was not unwelcome to him.
Had that freedom been just a little less absolute,
Hope would have been better pleased.
She was obliged to admit this to herself,
though somewhat ashamed of the admission.
She was sure that the servants must think it
odd that her husband should be away from
morning to nio-ht, shooting, attending magistrates'
meetings, and what not. After all, he
was her husband, and it would have been
natural for him to offer to ride or drive with
her occasionally. But he did not seem to
think so ; and certainly, when they met, he
was as kind and friendly as it was possible to
be. Xor did she find her life dull. She was
accustomed to being left to her own devices
and she had occupations enough in receiving
the neighbours, whose name was legion, in
returning their calls, in driving the cobs which
Dick had bought for her through the glades

of Windsor Park and Forest, and in discussing
art with Jacob Stiles, whom she saw everyday.


Nevertheless, a vague sense of disappointment
was ever present with her. During her
enorao-ement she had been nervous and sometimes
almost terrified, feeling that she was
about to take a plunge in the dark, and that
lifelong misery or remorse might be awaiting
her. But it was nothing of that kind that she
experienced. She was not at all miserable ;
marriage had brought her all that she had
expected in her most sanguine moments, and
more — immunity from care and control, an
amiable and most unobtrusive husband, and
every luxury procurable by money. If she
wanted something in addition to all this, what
in the world could it be that she wanted ?

She was putting the above question to
herself late one afternoon as she walked across
the park towards the house, and she had not
succeeded in finding an answer to it, when
she caught sight of a horseman proceeding
leisurely, with a loose rein, up the avenue.

'Another native, I suppose,' lie thought.
Shall I see him, or shall I not ? I think I
won't.'

But it was too late to make any choice as
to that ; for the supposed native had seen her
already, had turned his horse off the road, and
was now cantering across the grass towards
her. As he drew nearer, he raised his hat ;
and then Hope recognised him.

Captain Cunningham ! ' she exclaimed.
What can have brought you down into the
depths of the country ? '

How do you do, Mrs. Herbert ? ' said the
young man, dismounting and passing his arm
through his horse's bridle. ' This isn't the
depths of the country at all ; it's within an
easy ride of Windsor, where I have the misfortune
— the good luck, I mean — to be quartered
just now.'

He looked handsomer than ever in the
dark-coloured suit and Newmarket boots,
which, it is needless to say, fitted him to the
utmost degree of perfection, and he appeared
to be in the enjoyment of excellent health and

spirits. ' I thought,' continued he, ' that as I
was within hail of you, you wouldn't mind my
looking you up.'

I should have been deeply offended if
you had not,' answered Hope.

She was unaffectedly glad to see the young
fellow again, and had almost forgotten the
constraint which had interfered with the
pleasure of their last meeting. That, and the
cause of it, were connected with the remote
past ; in Bertie Cunningham she saw only a
friend of former days, whose unexpected
vicinity might help to enliven present ones.
Come into the house,' she said, ' and I will
give you a cup of tea.'

Is Miss Herbert here ? ' Cunningham inquired.


No ; she has gone away to stay with some
of her friends.'

Oh ! Anybody else staying with you ? '

'Not a soul, I regret to say. You will
have to put up With me for half an hour, if
you will consent to remain so long. Dick is
not likely to be in before dinner time.'

That's all right ! ' cried the young man ina
tone of hearty satisfaction. ' Then we can
have a comfortable talk by ourselves, and you
can tell me all your news.'

Only I haven't any to tell. You lead
better favour me "with yours.'

'I haven't any either; but, never mind,
we'll talk about something that isn't news.
That will Give us a rather longer list of
subjects, woivt it ? '

YoL. II. F

CHAPTER XIX.

HOPE SrOILS SPORT.

King David, it will be remembered, put off his
sackcloth, washed his face, and began to eat
and drink as usual the moment he heard
that his child was dead ; thereby astonishing
his friends, who surely might have known
better than to be astonished at so simple and
human a manner of meeting the inevitable.
For what some people call resignation to the
Divine will, and others merely recuperative
force, is essential to our existence, and it is
certain that there would be no getting on
without it in this world of loss and disappointment.
Bertie Cunningham was as little conscious
of being a philosopher as the Bourgeois
Gentilhomme was of talking prose ; but this
did not prevent him from regulating his life in
accordance with strictly philosophical principles,

of wliicli the first and foremost was
never to fret himself over what could not be
helped. As soon, therefore, as Hope Lefroy
had become the Avise of another man, he sought
consolation and change of ideas with so much
success that, before the pheasant-shooting
began, he was able to report himself to Mrs.
Pierpoint by letter as completely cured. Xow
if he had not been completely cured it would
have been imprudent, not to say wrong, ot
him to call at Farndon Court ; but as it was,
what harm could there be in his renewing
acquaintance with a lady to whom he had
never declared his love, and who might now
at least be his friend ?

He found her a little altered. Whether
for the better or not it was too early to determine
; but certainly she was no longer exactly
what she had been before her marriage. She
was more matronly, more dignified, perhaps a
trifle £graver ; but there was nothing: either in
her face or in her speech to indicate that she
repented of the step which she lead taken.
As for her beauty, that seemed rather to have

F 2

increased than diminished, he thought, as lie
watched her drinking her tea by the iirehght.
In one respect, at any rate, she was unchanged
; she had not yet picked up the
society slang with which Bertie's ears were
familiar ; lie knew nothing of the absorbing
topics which he was accustomed to hear discussed
over the rims of teacups ; and so their
conversation was chiefly about local matters.
Bertie had been quartered at Windsor before,
and knew the neighbourhood well. He stated
that it was not so bad, if you didn't expect
too much of it. There were the Queen's
hounds and there was a fair amount of shooting,
and every now and then somebody gave
a ball.

Do you mind driving ever so many miles
for a dance, Mrs. Herbert ? ' he asked. ' Shall
you go in for these entertainments ? I will
if you will.'

That is a powerful inducement,' answered
Hope. ' I daresay I shall go to some of them,
if Dick will take me. But I am afraid balls
are a cfreat bore to him.'

He might be left at home,' observed
Bertie. ' That is, I suppose lie might. What
do you do with yourself all day here ? Write
letters, and feed the chickens, and go out fora
drive in the afternoon? Or do you still
keep up your painting ? '

You have hit off my manner of life exactly,'
Hope replied. ' Xo ; I haven't begun
to paint again yet. I am rather discouraged
by the presence of an artist sin the house.
Did you ever hear of a ^h\ Jacob Stiles, who
was adopted and educated by Dick, and who
lives here ? '

Captain Cunningham couldn't say that he
ever had.

I ivill introduce you to him some day
said Hope. And then she related the circumstances
under which her own introduction to
Jacob had been effected.

The luck that some people have ! ' ejaculated
Bertie. ' Why wasn't I on the spot to
cast myself into the water, instead of the chap
with the aristocratic name ! '

You would have spoilt your clothes, and

I know that would have been a grief to you ;
whereas the chap with the aristocratic name
never gave a thought to his.'

What an unkind thing to say ! — and so
utterly false too ! Do you often favour your
husband with speeches of that sort ? '

My husband has a soul far above clothes,
and I never say disagreeable things to hard,
because he never boasts of the wonders that
he would have performed if he had only had
the opportunity. Used he not to be rather
a friend of yours ? I wish you would stay
and dine, and then you would see him.'

But Cunningham shook his head. ' I wish
I could ; but, you see, I shouldn't be able to
dress. Now you needn't laugh ; no civilised
being enjoys sitting down to dinner in a
s]iootino:-coat. I should like to meet Herbert,
all the same. He might give a fellow a day's
shooting.'

I have no doubt that he would, if he
knew that a fellow was within reach. I won't
fail to let him know.'

Alius they went on talking innocent sort

of nonsense and finding each other very
pleasant company. At that time there was
no thought of any such thing as love-making
in the mind of either of them ; they were
both young, and there was between them that
freemasonry which, alas I cannot coexist with
disparity of years. ' Crabbed age and youth
cannot live together.' It may be that a
mutual understand;' is somewhat difficult
of attainment even between middle age and
youth — between a man in the prime of lifelike
Dick Herbert, and such a young couple
as were now warming themselves beside Dick
Herbert's hearth. At any rate, both Hope
and Bertie Cunningham stopped talking nonsense
when the master of the house strode
into the room in gaiters and shooting-boots,
having just returned from a long day's sport
in the coverts of a neighbour.

Xot that there was anything chilling in
Dick's reception of his visitor. He shook
hands with the young guardsman, said he was
glad to see him (which thing he assuredly
would not have said unless it had been true),

and repeated with so nmcli cordiality the
invitation already given by his wife that
Bertie allowed his scruples to be overruled
and consented to stay to dinner.

Nevertheless, both during that repast and
after it was over there was a certain feeling of
restraint in the air. Three is proverbially an
awkward number ; moreover, Dick was not
particularly fond of Bertie Cunningham, whom
he looked upon as a rather poor specimen oi
the modern British warrior, and it was altogether
beyond his power to conceal his likes
and dislikes, although on this occasion lie took
more trouble to do so than usual. He did not
omit to ask the young man to come over and
shoot on a specified day, and showed, perhaps,
an even greater consideration for his
comfort by leaving the drawing-room almost
as soon as they had re-entered it, and only
showing himself again just in time to say
good-night.

Hope was leaning against the mantelpiece
and looking down at the fire, with a smile
upon her face, when her husband came back,

after seeing this guest ride away. • Isn't lie
nice ? ' she said.

He is a very good fellow,' answered Dick.

As this was what Dick said about every
man in whom he could find nothing special
to commend, the compliment was not a very
high one ; but, such as it was, Hope did not
cavil at it.

I Heed him much better to-day than I
ever did before,' she went on. ' He is such a
cheery, pleasant boy.'

Well,' said Dick, ' he isn't exactly a boy,
you know. He wasn't born yesterday, in
spite of his smooth face.'

Oh, but he is quite young in all his ways
and ideas I '

Dick, happening to hold a different
opinion, did not give utterance to it, but said :
He will help us keep alive, I daresay. I
am glad he is within reach, as you like him.'

Hope was glad too ; but she would have
been a little less glad if she could have foreseen
one consequence of the removal of Captain
Cunningham's battalion from London to

Windsor. She did not, however, trace any
connection between cause and effect when
she heard that Carry Herbert had abandoned
the greater part of her intended visits and
proposed to return to Farndon forthwith ;
only lie felt a little annoyed that the sole intimation
of this change of plans should have
reached her through the servants. That
Carry should make herself at home was all
very well ; but surely a few lines might have
been addressed to the nominal mistress of the
house.

Nothing is more irritating than a flea-bite.
You must not complain of such things ; you
must not even (if you are in polite society)
relieve your sufferings in the natural way ;
and that makes it extremely hard to bear,
Hope received her sister-inlaw with the utmost
amiability ; she was determined not to
show that she was in the least vexed by the
latter's lack of ceremony ; but she was unable
to forget it, and, what was worse, she strongly
suspected that it had not been accidental.

And indeed it was not long before Carry

chose to take what anybody must have considered
a liberty. Captain Cunningham's
second visit to Farndon was paid a few days
after her return, and as soon as he was shown
into the room where the taro ladies were
sitting, she monopolised him in a manner
which Hope did not altogether like, and which
he himself evidently did not like at all. She
seated herself close to him ; she talked in a
low voice ; she made allusions quite unintelligible
to a third person, and, in short, believed
in such a fashion that the third person began
to wonder whether she had not better quit the
scene. But this, though not in the best taste,
was pardonable. What went very near to
exhausting Hope's patience was to hear Carry
coolly saying to their visitor : ' Why don't you
some over and stay a few days with us ? You
can get leave, I suppose. Come next week ;
the hounds are to meet close to us on Wednesday,
and if you haven't anything to ride, I'll
put you up on one of mine.'

It was a fortunate thing that Hope could
not at the moment think of anv method of

administering the snub which this speech undoubtedly
deserved ; for it was not prudence
that kept her silent. Bertie Cunningham
undertook her revenge.

Don't you think,' he said, mildly, ' that it
might be as well to wait until I am asked ? '

Am I not asking you ? ' returned Carry,
laughing. But she winced all the same, and
Hope recovered her temper.

Please come, if you can manage it, Captain
Cunningham,' said she. 'You know how
glad we shall be to see you.'

An invitation given under such obvious
pressure of circumstances could not be
accepted without a little decent hesitancy ;
but Bertie did not protest to any wearisome
length, because experience had taught him to
believe that he was always welcome everywhere.
Besides, he thought he would greatly
enjoy a few days at Farndon Court — which
was even more to the purpose. To deny himself
enjoyment, or the prospect of it, was what
he had never done in all his life, and he had
no notion of embarking upon a career of self-sacrifice

now, although his eyes were sharp
enoiiE^h to discern breakers ahead. He could
not devote his attention excessively to Miss
Herbert throughout his stay, or where would
the enjoyment be? Yet he knew full well
that if he devoted his attention to anybody
else, trouble would only too probably come of
it. With as much physical courage as any
ordinary person can require, he was sadly
deficient in the moral variety of that attribute
; and although he no longer (except every
now and then, in a moment of despondency)
thought of marrying bliss Herbert, he was
mortally afraid of angering her. The state of
her feelings was hardly a secret to him ; of
her liability to fits of unreasonable jealousy
he had more than once had painful and convincing
proof; finally, he perceived that she
was not prepossessed in her sister-in-law's
favour.

These considerations made him heartily
wish that Carry would go away again ; but
did not deter him from reappearing at Pardon
on the following Tuesday in a dog-cart,

with this portmanteau between his feet, a
bright smile upon his Hps, and this heart filled
with trust in Providence.

Are you coming out hunting tomorrow? '
he asked Hope in the course of the evening,
having craftily entreated Miss Herbert to
play something,' and shown his gratitude
for her compliance by at once turning his
back upon her and escaping to the other end
of the room.

I don't know,' answered Hope, hesitating
between doubt of her capacity and a natural
disinclination to be left behind. ' I should be
very much in the way, I'm afraid. My father
used to take me out in old days ; but I can't
say that I have ever really hunted. And
these hounds go at a terrific pace, don't
they?'

Oh, sometimes, but what does that matter ,
so long as you are decently mounted ? I'll
look after you,' added Bertie, reassuringly.

Indeed you'll do nothing of the sort ; you
must look after Carry.'

Look after Miss Herbert ! It's lucky she

is making such a row with the piano that she
can't hear you. If she hasn't learnt how to
take care of herself by this time, she never
will learn.'

If I go, I shall take care of myself, too,'
observed Hope. She raised her voice slightly
and said : ' Dick, do you think I might hunt
with you tomorrow ? '

Dick looked up from the evening paper
with a rather dubious countenance, but he
answered : 'Oh, certainly, if you wish. I
would have suggested it only I didn't think
you cared about coming. You shall ride the
Parson. He won't bring you to grief, if you
leave him alone ; you'll have nothing to bother
yourself about, except sticking on his back.'

I think I can manage that much,' said
Hope, the least bit nettled by the implied
want of confidence in her seat. ' Only please
let it be understood that I am to be left alone
quite as much as the Parson. I don't want
to spoil anybody's sport.'

That is of course,' answered Dick, smiling
; ' it is a fundamental maxim with hunting

ladies that they are to be treated for the time
being as men. Isn't that so, Carry ? '

Miss Herbert, who had hurried through
the conclusion of a brilliant fantasia, and was
not best pleased with the inattention of her
audience, replied : ' Women who don't know
what they are about have no business in the
hunting-field. Are you a novice ? ' lie asked,
turning abruptly to Hope.

1 must confess that I am,' Hope answered ;
but everything must have a beginning. I
suppose there was a time Alien even you did
not know a great deal about hunting.'

I suppose so,' Miss Herbert responded,
drily ; * but if there was, I don't remember it.
I cannot have been much more than six years
old when I was in the condition of ignorance
that you describe.'

No wonder you have forgotten it, then ! '
ejaculated Bertie.

He knew he ought not to say this, but he
couldn't stop himself; and Miss Herbert's dark
eyes, flashing angry notes of interrogation,
rested upon a countenance of such childlike

simplicity, that she persuaded herself — not by
any means for the first time in her experience
of Bertie Cunningham — that lie had wounded
her unintentionally.

Now, after the foreo'oino- fragment of
dialogue, everyone must perceive that it was
a matter of pure necessity for Hope to ride
straight to hounds on the followings morning,
even though she should risk her neck in the
attempt ; and this she was steadfastly resolved
to do. When she was shown her mount — a
rather small, but powerful, black horse, with
whose shape it would have been difficult to
find any fault, and whose mild brown eyes
gave evidence of a tractable disposition — she
saw that the best had been done for her that
could be done ; and before she had ridden him
a couple of hundred yards she felt her confidence
rising, together with that spirit of emulation
without which very few things worth
speaking of would have been accomplished in
the history of the human race. Dick, mounted
on a gigantic flea-bitten grey, who Alas very
fresh and too free with his heels to be a

Vol. II. G

pleasant neighbour, appeared to have the
prospect of some fine, healthy exercise before
him ; Carry's chestnut, though taking to the
eye, looked as if lie would require a good
deal of riding ; while to Bertie Cunningham
had been awarded another chestnut, equally
handsome, which had been acquired by Miss
Herbert at a moderate figure, in consideration
of the abominable temper which he had often
displayed. ' I hate a quiet horse,' she was
wont to say, just as certain yachtsmen will
declare that they love rough seas. However,
one seldom hears that preference expressed
by sailors.

'You have got the pick of the bunch,
Mrs. Herbert,' remarked Bertie, after the brute
that he was riding had nearly bucked him out
of the saddle ; and Hope was quite of the
same opinion.

The meet was so near that it had not been
thought worth while to send the horses on ;
and as our party had been a little late in
starting they had but a short time to wait
after their appearance upon the scene. The

scene itself rather took Hope's breath away.
Never in her previous small experience of
hunting had she seen anything like so vast a
concourse, and while Dick was introducing
her to some of his acquaintances, she was inwardly
wondering how in the world all those
horsemen and horsewomen would contrive to
get away. ' It will be worse than dancing ina
London ball-room,' she thought.

But somehow or other — Hope could not
have said how — they did get away ; and
having no notion what line to take, she presently
found herself one of a crowd which
was galloping down a narrow lane, headed by
Dick. To follow Dick seemed to be quite the
wisest course. Xo doubt he knew what he
was about, and as he was not piloting her, it
could not be on her account that he had stuck
to the road, instead of flying over a hedge
and disappearing, as Carry and Bertie, together
with a considerable number of others,
had done. Dick did not stick to the road
long. Suddenly Hope saw him wheel to the
right, through what appeared to be an open

gate, with the whole division after him, helter-skewer,
and then came a stretch of grass and
a little more elbow-room. This was very delightful.
The Parson was going with long,
easy strides ; the hounds were visible on a
hillside not so far ahead, and it was only when
Hope noticed a slackening in Dick's pace that
she saw what she might have seen a little
sooner, in the shape of a fence of truly appalling
dimensions between the hounds and
her.

Good gracious ! ' she muttered under her
breath. ' Surely he isn't going to jump that I
If he does we must — that is certain.' And
she hardly knew whether to be relieved or
disappointed when it became evident that he
was not going to jump it.

He held up his hand, calling out : ' Hold
hard ! there's a gate,' and then she saw the
field making tumultuously for a point some
little distance to her ris^ht. But the cate
proved obdurate. There was no unfastening
it, and many precious minutes were wasted before
it could be lifted off its hinges. Throui:^h

such a throng of horsemen, each (with one
noble exception) bent upon forwarding his
own interests at the expense of those of his
neighbours, it was no easy matter for a lady
to force a passage, and Hope did not attempt
but allowed the crowd to pass her, trusting
to make np for lost time later on. This was
too much, even for the equable temper of the
Parson, who began to fidget and snatch at
his bit, while Dick's grey plunged, reared, and
ended by becoming very nearly unmanageable.

Stay Avhere you are,' shouted his rider,
as he turned and galloped back out of the
press ; ' I'll wait for you on the other side
(He iras piloting her, then.) And thereupon
he charged the fence and cleared it like
a bird.

Many a sad catastrophe has been brought
about through lack of that unquestioning
obedience to instructions which has gone clean
out of fashion in these days, when everybody
knows as much as everybody else, if not more.
With the spirit of the age strong upon her,
Hope said to herself, that what one horse had

done another could do, an assumption of which
the inconsequence had to be, and speedily was,
brought home to her. It may be that a more
experienced rider would have taken the Parson
safely over that fence ; and, as a matter of
fact, he did get over, or rather through it ;
but it was only to land on his head and deliver
Hope with considerable violence on hers.
After a few seconds of bewilderment, she
realised that she had had a fall, and, raising
her eyes, became aware of Dick, who, from
the back of his plunging grey, called out,
rather unsympathisingly as she thought :
Get up ! '

She staggered to her feet, and he said :
Now walk on a bit.'

This order also she contrived to obey, all
self-assertion having been knocked out of her,
and after she had taken a few steps, Dick remarked
quietly: 'You're all right, I see ; I
thought you might have had a slight concussion
of the brain. Drink some of this,' he
added, tossing his flask to her, ' and sit down
on that bank till I come back. I must try

and find somebody to hold this brute for me ;
the Parson won't run away.'

Hope, feeling a little faint and dizzy, did
as she was told, and a few mouthfuls of sherry
revived her. The Parson, who had scrambled
on to his legs immediately after his fall and
was placidly surveying her from a short distance,
with his neck stretched out and his
ears cocked, responded to her invitation to
draw nearer, and allowed her to stroke his
nose. The expression of his countenance
seemed to imply that he sincerely regretted
the disaster, but could not feel that he had
been altogether responsible for it. While
Hope was anxiously examining his fore-legs
Dick returned on foot, having left his horse
in charge of a labourer, and asked : ' How are
you now ? Better ? '

I am not a bit the worse, thank you ; '
answered Hope ; ' only dreadfully ashamed.
I suppose I behaved like a perfect idiot,
didn't I?'

'You behaved very pluckily,' answered
Dick, smiling ; ' but it was asking a little

too much of the old horse. I ought to have
warned you that he isn't quite what he once
was.'

Oh, it wasn't his fault,' said Hope despondently
; ' I feel sure that I was the one
to blame : though what I did or left undone
I have no idea. Is he hurt, do you think ? '

Not he ! he thinks nothing of a little
spill like that — do you, old boy? You gave
me a rare fright, though, I can tell you.
However, all's well that ends well.'

But it hasn't ended well at all ! ' exclaimed
Hope, with tears in her eyes. ' I
have spoilt your run, though you promised to
leave me to myself. Won't you go on now
and let me find my own way home ? '

I don't remember making any promises ;
and if I did, it's lucky I broke them, for you
couldn't very well have remounted without
help. As for the hounds, they are miles away
by this time ; so, if you feel fit to ride now,
we'll jog quietly home together.'

'I suppose there is nothing else for it,'
said Hope, with a sigh. ' One thing is that

you won't be victimised in this way a second
time, for I am never going to hunt again.'

Why ? Because you have had a
cropper ? '

Xo ; but I agree with Carry ; the 
isn't the proper place for a woman
who can't take care of herself.'

Shall I let you int?) a secret ? ' whispered
Dick. ' You mustn't tell anybody I said so,
because it's a perfectly outrageous opinion to
hold ; but, strictly between ourselves, I don't
think the hunting-field is the proper place fora
woman at all.'

CHAPTER XX.

BERTIE IS LECTURED.

As Hope rode dejectedly homewards by her
husband's side, she felt that she ought to
make him some apology for having deprived
him of a day's amusement ; but then she
recollected the callousness that he had displayed
while she was lying prone at his feet,
and it struck her if there was to be any
apologising, it might as will come from him
as from her in the first instance.

So she began : ' You said just now that I
had given you a fright.'

So you did,' answered Dick, struggling
to get a cigar lighted, in spite of the cur-beings
of his gallant grey.

'You did not look much frightened,
observed Hope, reproachfully.

It wouldn't have done you any good if
I lead had a fit of hysterics, would it ? '

Xo ; but it would have been decent to
turn pale and gasp, instead of shouting '• Getup
! " at me, as if I were a horse or a dog.'

Dick laughed. 'Wlien people come to
grief you should always make them stand up,
if they can,' he said. ' Then you find out
whether there is anything really amiss with
them.'

lyell,' sighed Hope, ' I suppose I ought
to be thankful that I have escaped with
nothing worse than a crushed hat and a
muddy face ; but it is ver' humiliating. I
think I shall go to bed as soon as I get home.
Xever shall I have the courage to sit down to
dinner with Carry after this ! I can see her
face of contempt akeady.'

Dick edged a little nearer to his wife and
bent forward, by which means he was able
to discern tears upon her eyelashes. ' My
dearest girl,' he said kindly, • is it worth
while to vex yourself about what a spiteful
woman may say or do ? '

Now this was a really remarkable speech :
for, in the first place, Dick seldom made use
of any endearing epithet in addressing his
wife ; and, in the second, it was altogether unlike
him to speak a word against an absent
person. At the risk of lowering Hope in the
reader's esteem, it must be confessed that the
latter half of his sentence pleased her even
more than the former,

You do think her spiteful, then ? ' she
said, glancing eagerly at him.

Why, of course I do. I don't mind
saying so, for once, since we are alone ; but,
if it's the same to you, we won't say so
oftener than we can help in future. It's
always a mistake to look on the dark side of
things or people ; and, after all, poor Carry
has her good points.'

I don't doubt it ; but what are they ? I
only ask for the sake of information.'

Well, she is straightforward, I think, and
she is a good friend.'

And a bitter enemy. It is no use, Dick ;
I have tried to like her : but she has evidently

made up her mind never to be a friend
of mine, and I confidently expect the day
to come when she will be straightforward
enough to tell me so.'

I trust she won't have such bad manners ;
but there's no devils; that her manners are
not always up to the mark. You see, she is
my sister ; I can't very well turn her out of
house and home.'

Of course you can't ! How could you
suppose that I meant to suggest such a
thing ? '

I didn't suppose so ; I was only wishing
that it could be done. However,' continued
Dick more cheerfully, ' there's a chance of her
going of her own free will, I fancy. Did it
ever occur to you that there was anything
between her and Cunningham ? '

Xever I I can't imagine two people less
suited to each other,' answered Hope, with a
vehemence which rather surprised lier questioner.


I shouldn't have said that,' he remarked
musingly. ' She is a year or two older than

Cunningham, it is true ; but they have always
seemed to me to pull uncommonly well together.
And then, you know, she is very
comfortably off.'

Oh, I see ; you set Captain Cunningham
down as a fortune-hunter.'

'We needn't call him names,' said Dick.
When a man is hard up, he naturally prefers
a rich wife to a penniless one.'

Even if she is years older than himself
and spiteful into the bargain ? ' asked Hope.
But as soon as she had said this her conscience
rebuked her and she exclaimed : ' How
ill-natured I am — quite as bad as she is !
Why do you let me speak like that about
your sister ? '

'I don't mind,' answered Dick, with his
cjuiet, good-humoured smile.

Do you mind anything, I wonder ? '
cried Hope, half laughing, half provoked.
Would you mind if I set the house on fire ? '

I'd rather you didn't,' Dick confessed.
He added, after riding on in silence for some
minutes : • I know I'm a phlegmatic sort of

fellow. The fact is I am constitutionally
lazy ; things don't often worry me, and when
they do, I mostly hold my tongue about
them. But 111 tell you what would worry
me a great deal, and that would be to think
that you were not happy at Farndon. Carry
is a painful necessity for the present ; there
is nothing for it but to bear with her. Candidly
speaking, Cunningham isn't exactly the
husband I should have chosen for her ; but
if she Hies him and if they choose to marry,
I shall be very glad — principally on your
account.'

Thank you,' said Hope, briefly.

Dick scrutinised her for a moment and
then said : ' I Lavish, though, that you would
tell me whether there is anything else that I
can do to make life pleasant er for you. For
instance, would you like me to go away fora
week or two ? '

The proposition was made in such evident
good faith that Hope burst out laughing.
' Xo,' she answered, ' great as the relief
of that would be, I shouldn't feel justified in

asking for it just yet. Carry lias already
been kind enough to warn me that you
would probably absent yourself very often ;
but she has not the humble opinion of you
that you have of yourself. I believe she
actually imagined that I should miss you.'

To this Dick made no rejoinder ; nor did
he open this lips again until the ride was at
an end.

Hope did not carry out her threat of
retiring to bed as soon as she reached home.
She reflected that, even if she did so, she
would have to get up again some time or
other and face whatever trials might be in
store for her : so she came down to dinner as
usual, and was agreeably surprised to find
that her mishap (of which Dick had given his
own account) was considered a subject rather
for condolence than for sneers.

It is needless to say that Captain Cunningham
and Miss Herbert had enjoyed the very
best run on record, and equally needless to
add that they did not spare their hearers a
single incident of it. There are circumstances

under which even the most forbearing of
mortals cannot help triumphing a little over
their less fortunate friends, and whatever may
have been the good points that Dick had discovered
in his sister's character, he would
hardly have ventured to name forbearance
as one of them. From making disagreeable
speeches to Hope she did, however, forbear
(for she was in an excellent humour) ; and
the latter, not being called upon to undertake
her own defence, was able to watch
Bertie Cunningham, in whose proceedings the
few words that had fallen from Dick caused
her to take a new and lively interest.

Certain it was that the young man was
very attentive to the heiress that evening ;
and if some degree of reluctance was visible
in his attentions, that only made them and
him the more contemptible. Hope's opinion
of Captain Cunningham, which, after so many
fluctuations, had lately been rising rapidly,
began once more to sink to a low ebb. Also
she felt very angry with him, and did not
stop to ask herself why she should be angry

YoL. n. H

with a man who was only behaving like the
majority of his neighbours, and whose conduct,
after all, was no particular concern of
hers.

A woman is never wise to be angry with
a man for paying attention to another member
of her sex ; but she is still less wise if she
lets him see that she is angry. It was this
error in judgment which Hope now thought
fit to commit. Captain Cunningham remained
day after day at Farndon, giving no
hint of intended departure ; day after day his
hostess treated him with marked coolness,
keeping out of his way as much as might
be ; and although — or perhaps because — he
guessed what had brought about this change
in her demeanour, he felt it quite essential to
his comfort that he should ask her the reason
of it. So, one afternoon when Carry had
driven over to Windsor to do shopping, Hope
encountered him in the park, looking grave
and cast down, and was obliged to accede to
his request that he might be permitted to
walk home with her.

It is very kind of you to put up with
this infliction, Mrs. Herbert,' he said, humbly ;
for I know you would rather have my room
than my company.'

Not at all, I assure you,' answered Hope,
with perfunctory politeness.

One understands what that means. I
wish you would tell me how I have offended
you.'

'Eeally, Captain Cunningham, you have
not offended me in any way. How could
you, when we have hardly exchanged a dozen
words since you came ? '

That is what I can't make out ; but I
am certain of the fact. If I haven't said anything
wrong, I must have done something.'

Your conscience seems to be uneasy.'

So my friend Mrs. Pierpoint is always
telling me. You are something like her.'

I suppose that is a great compliment tome,
is it not ? '

You don't know her, or you wouldn't
speak in that sarcastic tone,' the young man
answered, warmly. ' I am not sure that she is

n 2

quite ill your style, perhaps she isn't ; lout
there never breathed a kinder woman or a
better friend. She has been a sort of mother
to me, and I should think I was paying anybody
a compliment by comparing her to Mrs.
Pierpoint. However, I didn't mean to say
that you resembled her particularly ; only
that you reminded me of her for a moment.
She has a way erf looking displeased with me,
and when I ask her what is the matter, she
says, as you did just now, that I have a bad
conscience.'

'I daresay she is quite right,' remarked
Hope, her countenance relaxing into a smile —
for, after the unkind things that had been
said about Mrs. Pierpoint in lier hearing, it
was satisfactory to find that that lady had
been ' a sort of mother ' to Captain Cunningham.
' And what are the offences of which
your conscience ought to accuse you, according
to her ? '

Oh, it's always the same thing. She has
made up her mind that I am to marry somebody
with money. There is no doubt at all

about my being driven to that sooner or later ;
only she wants it to be soon, whereas I should
like it to be as late as possible. And so we
differ.'

Mrs. Pierpoint cannot be a real friend of
yours if she urges you to marry for money
said Hope, severely. But the look of mingled
astonishment and amusement which her companion
turned upon her, caused her to colour
and descend with some abruptness from that
high critical level. ' Of course,' she added,
many people do marry for money ; but it is
hardly friendly to advise them to do so.'

Well, I don't know,' said Bertie, slowly ;
one either marries for love or in order to gain
something. Does it matter so much whether
that something is money, or a home, or a protector,
or position ? '

Hope did not enjoy being arraigned by
implication in this way ; but she had her
defence ready. 'In cases of that kind it is
quite impossible to judge for another person,'
she answered ; ' but I think there are distinctions.
One may marry without love and yet

have a very sincere liking and respect and
admiration for one's husband — or wife.'

Quite so. And why shouldn't I have all
three for the lady whom Mrs. Pierpoint wishes
me to lead to the altar ? '

How can I tell when I do not know who
she is ? '

Oh, if you don't know who it is ! However,
I will confess that I have no special
respect or admiration for her ; I like her well
enough when she doesn't bully me. The fact
is, Mrs. Herbert, that a man in my position
can't pick and choose. He may, perhaps,
have seen just one woman in his life idiom he
would have married, if she would have had
him, and if he had been an elder instead of
a younger son, and if &c., &c. But, things
being as they are with him, he must put up
with what he can get.'

That sounds as if ." what he can get " had
a pleasant prospect before her. At any rate,
she ought not to be deceived ; that much is
certain, whatever else may be doubtful. You
have no right to try and persuade a woman

■v

that you care for her. when it is only her
money that you want.'

Xow, !Mrs. Herbert, you know very Avell
that no woman is ever really deceived in that
way, unless she chooses to deceive herself. I
am not more fond of humbug than other
people ; but it does seem to me that just a
little bit of humbug is inevitable. You
wouldn't wish me to go to ]\Iiss — shall we call
her bliss Jones ? — and say, " Upon the whole,
you are rather abhorrent to me ; but I have
an idea that you are willing to become my
wife ; and as you are rich enough to keep
us both in comfort, I shall be prepared to
make you Mrs. Cunningham as soon as you
like." '

Yes, I should,' Hope declared. • K those
are your real feelings, I think you ought to
express them — or else not propose at all.'

You make my blood run cold ! ' exclaimed
Bertie. ' All things considered, perhaps I
won't propose at all. I wonder whether you
would expect the same dreadful candour from
a woman as you do from a man.'

The worst of this style of discussion by
innuendo is that it is sure eventually to reach
a point at which the argumentum ad Hominem
will be employed in such a manner as to be no
longer capable of being ignored. Hope felt
that this moment was fast approaching, and
was therefore very glad when a sudden turn
in the path along which she and her companion
were walking brought them face to
face with Jacob Stiles, who had come out for a
stroll in the gloaming, as his owl-like habit
was. Jacob started, bowed, and made as
though he would have passed on ; but Hope
intercepted him.

Good evening, Mr. Stiles ! ' she said ; ' I
have been wondering when I was to see you
again. You have been very busy, I suppose.'


Yes,' answered Jacob, in his slow, hesitating
Avay. ' At least, not very ; but I have
always work to do.' He added timidly : ' I
was sorry to hear that you lost your run the
other day. Perhaps Mr. Herbert would allow
me to break in a mare for you that he has in

the stable. She is hardly up to his weight ;
but she is very well bred and would carry a
lady beautifully.'

You are very kind,' said Hope ; ' but
after my exhibition the other day, I had made
up my mind to forswear hunting. What do
you think. Captain Cunningham ? Might I
give myself one more chance ? I don't know
whether you have been introduced to Mr.
Stiles.'

Captain Cunningham had not had that pleasure
; but he had been told about Jacob by
Miss Herbert, and was so good as to say that if
anybody knew how to school a hunter he believed
that Mr. Stiles did. He was very polite
to the artist during the few minutes of conversation
that followed — too polite, as that oversensitive
young man felt. Hope had treated
him as an equal, thereby earning his adoration ;
Captain Cunningham, with the best intentions,
let him see that they did not belong to the same
class. Jacob was for ever tormenting; himself
in this way and detecting slights which nobody
meant to inflict upon him. From Having so much

alone, and so seldom speaking or being spoken
to, he had learnt to take men's measures by
other methods than those which are in
common use, and as he had a natural aptitude
for the study of humanity, it often happened
to him to ground accurate conclusions upon
some trifle which would have escaped the
notice of nine people out of ten.

He jumped to a conclusion, and a somewhat
startling one, now ; for when Hope and
her companion proceeded on their way towards
the house, leaving him in the falling
darkness, he muttered : ' That is the man,
then ! I thought there must be somebody,
and her eyes brightened every time that she
spoke to him. It is a pity ; although he
would not have been good enough for her.
But, then, who is good enough for her?
Certainly not her husband, who will never
trouble himself to discover whether she is
happy or not. That man takes everything asa
right. The world has always gone well
with him, and he can't understand what other
folks find to grumble at in it, or why anybody

should ever be tempted to stray off the
straight course. I suppose it never occurred
to him that Jacob Stiles in his shoes would
have been quite as respectable a member of
sole tv as he is.'

CHAPTER XXL

JACOB DECLINES TO STRUT.

It is difficult for one who is perpetually smarting
under a sense of injustice to be just in his
judgments upon his fellows, and Jacob had
undoubtedly been too severe in assuming that
Dick Herbert neither knew nor cared whether
his wife were happy or not. This, as it
happened, was a question to which Dick had
devoted a good deal of thought ; and truly
concerned was he at being compelled to
answer it in the negative. For Hope had
lately reverted in some measure to that irritable
and capricious humour which he had
borne with so much equanimity during the
time of their betrothal. She turned upon
him, every now and then, with some sharp
little sarcastic speech which he had done

nothing to provoke, and ]her subsequent repentance
for such behaviour was no security
against a speedy repetition of it. This puzzled
Dick, who had all his life been able to
deal satisfactorily w^itli every variety of male
character that he had come across, but had
small experience of the other sex. When a
man was snappish and out of sorts he simply
left him alone, which was, of course, the only
rational thing to do, and by dinner-time, or at
latest by the following morning, it was all
right again. But, somehow or other, this
mode of treatment did not seem to answer
with Hope, and he could only suppose that
the dose was not strong enough to be effectual.
Of men he knew as much as most people, and
of horses, dogs, and other animals a great
deal more ; but his estimate of women was
based chiefly upon hearsay ; and having always
been given to understand that in the
hours of ease they are uncertain, coy, and
hard to please, he bore Hope no ill-will for
being subject to a natural law, and was ready
to believe that she would display all the

qualities of a ministering angel, should an
occasion with which he was not eager to provide
her arise to call for them.

However, he thought he had better remove
himself out of her sight for the time
being ; so he made arrangements to spend a
week or two, shooting, at the houses of different
friends, and said nothing about them
until they were completed. November was
then drawing towards a close ; a few frosty
nights had brought the leaves down in thousands
from the trees, and since Dick had not
yet shot his best coverts, it seemed unnecessary
that he should go farther afield in search
of sport. This was what Hope pointed out to
him when he announced his projected departure
; but he answered that the Farndon
coverts would doubtless be done justice to by
Cunningham, who was still in the house, and
by the brother officers whom he would, of
course, ask over from Windsor.

But surely they will think it rather odd
that you should not be here,' objected Hope.

'I expect they won't grumble much, so

long as there are plenty of pheasants,' said
Dick, cheerfully ; ' and you and Carry can do
the honours.'

Don't you think,' suggested Hope, after
remaining silent awhile, ' that Captain Cunningham
has been rather a honos time here ?
I wonder it does not strike him that he ought
to give someone else a treat.'

Dick raised his eyebrows. ' Why, I
thought you and Cunningham hit it off so
well,' he remarked.

'Why should you be so anxious to go
away ? ' Hope asked, suddenly changing her
ground.

Dick was very nearly answering : ' Because
I am sure that you will be glad to get
rid of me ; ' but he thought better of it and
only observed : ' One can't always stick in the
same place.'

Do you really want to go ? ' Hope persisted.


To this her husband made no reply, because
as a matter of fact he did not want to
go ; and she, drawing a little nearer to him,

laid her hand timidly on his arm and said :
I wish you would stay, Dick ! '

Dick remained silent, frowning and smiling
at the same moment, and wondering Avh ether
it was the part of a wise man to yield to
feminine caprices ; but he ended by saying :
I may as well keep to my plan, I think. I
don't like throwing people over, after accepting
their invitations, and you can all get on
pretty well without me, I fancy.'

If he expected to be further entreated, he
met with the disappointment that he deserved ;
for Hope at once turned away, remarking
coldly : ' Very likely you are right. You will
be back before Christmas, I suppose ? '

To which he replied : ' Oh, certainly, before
then.' And nothing more was said about the
matter.

To make a hesitating request and meet
with an unhesitating rebuff is always a disagreeable
experience, and what rendered it
the more so in the present instance was that,
upon further reflection, Hope really did not
know wliy she should have pressed hei' husband

to remain at home against his wilL She
had not seen so much of him since their
arrival at Farndon as to feel lonely without
him ; and indeed the only trial that his
absence was likely to bring upon her was
that Carry would be certain to say : ' I told
you so ! '

Carry, however, was too magnanimous, or
too indifferent, or too busy with her own
affairs to indulge in that cheap triumph, and
after Dick had gone away things went on
very much as before. The neighbours continued
to call ; Captain Cunningham and ]\Iiss
Herbert continued to ride about the country
together ; and one or two large shooting-parties
took place, which Hope did not feel
called upon to grace with her presence. She
might, perhaps, have found the time hang
rather heavily upon her hands, had it not
been for Jacob Stiles, whose task of educating
the bay mare was soon completed, and who, at
Hope's request, accompanied her the first time
that she made trial of her new acquisition.
He was evidently so gratified at being asked

Vol. H. I

that lie repeated her invitation a second and
a third time ; thereby canvassing the head
coachman, who, however, was old and discreet,
and kept his opinions to himself.

Jacob on horseback was not quite the
same person as Jacob on foot. That aspect,
as of a beaten hound, which prejudiced so
many strangers against him, disappeared at
such times, and he became a well-knit and
not ill-looking youth, whose perfect seat and
light hand no observer could fail to admire.
His manner, too, gained something in confidence,
and although he was always reserved
and respectful with Hope, he was able to
speak to her with authority upon the management
of horses, and also— Which interested her
more — upon that of the pencil and the brush.
She spent a good many hours with Jacob,
which were pleasant enough to her and blissful
to him. He was in some sort a protege of
her own, whom nobody else cared to notice ;
nor was she insensible to his devotion, although
she hardly comprehended the extent
of it. Moreover, she was filled with compassion

for him, because his views of life
were so dark. Xot that lie was given to
expatiating upon these : but every now and
again a phrase would escape him which
exhibited his quiet pessimism in a more striking
light than could have been thrown upon
it by any loud lamentation or railing.

Hope did not attempt to comfort him.
The heart knoweth its own bitterness, and she
herself sometimes thought that existence was
a doubtful sort of boon. She was beginning
to make a discovery which is seldom made in
youth and is always painful when so made ;
namely, that for the majority life must, at
best, be a commonplace and uneventful affair
; also that nine-tenths of the human race
are neither sheep nor goats, but interesting
mongrels. This conclusion, though a
little saddening and perplexing (because it is
plain that, from the moment that you admit
the fusion of good and evil, you have taken
the first step into a labyrinth of the most
abstruse speculation), had at any rate the good
effect of making her more tolerant of mortal

I 2

infirmities in general, and of those of a young
guardsman with insufficient means in particular.
It was absurd to expect too much of
Bertie Cunningham, or to quarrel with him
because he had not set up lofty ideals for
himself. His code, no doubt, was that of his
class, and how should he have learnt any
other? She did not see much of him — indeed,
she fancied that he purposely avoided
her — but when they met he was always
cheery and friendly. He referred once or
twice, in a joking tone, to his possible marriage,
and as often as he did so Hope expressed
her fervent desire that the lady who had
never been named between them might refuse
him ; but at the bottom of her heart she did
not think he would be refused, because she
saw no immediate prospect of his giving anybody
the chance of refusing him. This,
perhaps, may have helped her to be tolerant.
After dinner, one evening, he informed
her that Miss Herbert and he had been concocting
a scheme for their own amusement,
and the delectation of the neighbourhood.

It's subject to your approval, of course,'
lie added ; ' but we were thinking that it
would be rather a good thing to get up some
theatricals. We could have the stage in
the dinner-room, and '

But I don't think we could very well do
anything of that kind while Dick is away,'
interrupted Hope.

Dick will come back. In fact he rnu-st
come back, because we shall want him to
take a part. Besides, we can't possibly be
ready until after Christmas. I shall have to
leave you before then ; but I can easily ride
over from Windsor and rehearse. I need
hardly say that you will be expected to act.'

I have never acted in my life,' said Hope.

That is of no consequence. I have, lots
of times, and 111 coach you, Now, about the
piece. Miss Herbert and I haven't made up
our minds about that yet ; but I have a fancy
for " She Stoops to Conquer." It isn't exactly
a novelty ; but I know it by heart, which is a
great pull ; and the dresses are pretty. Do
you think it would do ?'

'Oil, yes, I slioiilcl think so,' answered
Hope.

But Carry, more prudently, said : ' Let us
hear what cast you propose to make.'

'Well, I should be Charles Marlow, because
I know the part,' answered Bertie.
Herbert could take old Hardcastle, and Bob
West — you know Bob West, don't you ? —
would be glad enough to do Hastings, I daresay
; he isn't particular. About Tony Lump-kin
I can't quite see my way. Can you think
of anybody ? '

I am not sure that I can. How do you
mean to distribute the ladies' parts ? '

Oh, I don't know. What should you
say to Mrs. Herbert for Miss Hardcastle, and
yourself for Mrs. Hardcastle?' asked Bertie,
airily. ' There ought to be no difficulty in
finding a Constance Neville somewhere.'

He must have been very well aware that
this arrangement would not meet Carry's
views, or he would not have mentioned it
in that off-hand manner. Seeing gathering
clouds upon her brow, he proceeded to improve

his position by adding : ' Grand part,
Mrs. Hardcastle — in fact, I believe it might
easily be made the part of the piece by a
really good actress, such as you are.'

So I should imagine,' observed Carry
drily. ' Your cast is admirable ; the only improvement
that I can suggest in it is that you
should take Tony Lumpkin and give up young
Mario w to Jacob Stiles.'

Jacob Stiles ? ' repeated Bertie, looking
puzzled. ' Can he act ? '

As well as other people who have never
acted before, I daresay ; and if you offered
]him the part you would gratify Hope, who
has already stooped to conquer him. The
main thing in amateur theatricals is to please
the performers.'

I can answer for one performer who
would not be pleased with the role of Miss
Hardcastle,' said Hope, quietly. ' If I am to
appear at all, it must be in some less ambitious
character than that, and Constance
Neville would do very well for me. You had
better be Miss Hardcastle. As for Mr. Stiles,

I am afraid we can hardly ask him to join us,
since we don't consider him worthy of sitting
down to dinner in onr company.'

Mr. Stiles, as you call him, is not very
likely to appreciate such line distinctions,'
remarked Carry, dio did not allow her wrath
to be turned away by this soft answer, and
who chose to vent it upon Hope, rather than
upon the real offender. ' However, I am not
personally eager for his society, either on the
stage or elsewhere.'

Oh, he's all right ; artists are all right,'
interposed Bertie, perceiving that there was
thunder in the air, and not wishing that his
project should be strangled at birth. 'He
keeps out of sight so much that I had really
forgotten he was in the house ; but a sharp
fellow like that ought to be useful to us. I
don't think I'll give him my part, all the
same ; but lie can have his pick of the others.
Now, what are we to do about Mrs. Hardcastle
? We must get somebody pretty good
for that part, or we shall spoil the whole
thing. 1 wish Mrs. Pierpoint would come !

But you don't know her, do you P ' lie asked,
turning to Hope.

Unfortunately, I don't,' she replied.

Carry, who, having obtained what she
wanted, was now a little ashamed of her ill-humour,
said, with unwonted civility: 'Would
you mind my writing to her and asking her
down, Hope ? I don't know whether she will
be able to come or not ; but she is a great
friend of mine ; so perhaps you and she
Avould both agree to dispense with formality
for once.'

The great advantage possessed by those
who are habitually rude is that anything like
amenity on their part is sure to meet with
grateful acknowledgment. Hope declared
that she would like nothing better than to
make Mrs. Pierpoint's acquaintance, and the
discussion was continued in a much more
friendly spirit than had marked its opening.

'Will you speak to Stiles about acting,
Mrs. Herbert ? ' asked Bertie, as he wished
Hope good-night. ' I really believe he would
be rather an acquisition, and it might cheer

him up a bit, poor chap, to come out of his
den for one evening. If he didn't care about
taking a part, he might help us as stage-manager.
An artist should be a good judge
of scenic effects.'

Hope thought this very good-natured of
Bertie ; and she was not best pleased when,
on communicating the proposed arrangement
to Jacob, she was met with a somewhat
brusque refusal.

We thought you might be glad of a little
amusement,' she remarked.

The jackdaw who stuck the peacock's
feathers in his tail got very little amusement
for his pains,' answered the young man. ' The
other birds didn't molest him so long as he
kept to himself; they only looked at him out
of the corners of their eyes, and said : " Thank
God, we are not jackdaws," and strutted by.
But he hadn't the sense to thank God that
he was not a peacock, and so he got into
trouble.'

What a wrong-headed way you have of
looking at life ! ' exclaimed Hoj^e. ' If you goon

like this you will never have a friend in
the world.'

I suppose I never shall,' said Jacob sadly.
There are no jackdaws at Farndon, and I
don't know how to strut. I should look very
foolish if I attempted it. Don't think me
ungrateful. I have no doubt that Captain
Cunningham means kindly ; but even if I
wished to accept his offer, I could not. ]mr.
Herbert would not like it.'

You are quite mistaken ' Hope was

beginning ; but he interrupted her with a
quick motion of his hand and a smile.

Xo, indeed ; I don't speak without knowledge.
You are too kind and good to understand
; and even you, if I told you all — but I
won't tell you all — at least, not now. Mrs.
Herbert,' he went on, with more animation,
I am a poor hand at expressing myself ; but
I should like you to know how much I have
felt your kindness. As you say, I shall never
have a friend, and to talk about friendship
between you and me would be absurd ; but if
ever I can serve you in any way, great or

small, and if you will let me know of it, you
will confer the truest favour upon me that it
is in your power to confer. I see by your
face that you think that an exaggerated way
of speaking. It is not exaggerated. I mean
what I say quite literally ; and all kinds of
things are possible. A day may come when
you may want help, and when even I may be
able to help you.'

Then help us with our theatricals,' returned
Hope, laughing.

In truth, she did think Jacob's language a
little too high-flown, and his manner, even
more than his words, affected her with a vague
feeling of uneasiness.

I won't press you to act, since you dislike
it, Mr. Stiles,' she went on ; ' but you might
give us the benefit of your advice as to dresses
and scenery, and so on.'

That I will do very gladly,' answered
Jacob. ' Miss Herbert will snub me ; but I
am accustomed to that, and there will be no
need for me to show myself on the night of
the performance. Only one thing I want to

ask YOU, Mrs. Herbert. Would you mind
calling me Jacob instead of Mr. Stiles in
future ? Both names are equally hideous ;
but the second gives offence to some people
and the first doesn't. If I am to walk among
the peacocks for a time, nobody shall say that
I have borrowed a feather of their plumage.'

CHAPTER XXII.

MRS. PIERPOIXT IS PEREMPTORY.

Pretty little Mrs. Pierpoint wrote a pretty
little note to Hope, expressing lier thanks for
the invitation that she had received and her
willingness to undertake the part of Mrs.
Hardcastle, or any other that might be assigned
to her. She said that she felt as if she
were already well acquainted with lier future
hostess, of whom she had heard so nnich from
two of her most intimate friends — Carry
Herbert and Bertie Cunningham — and only
reo-retted that other engagements would prevent
her from reaching Farndon until within
about a week of the date fixed upon for the
theatricals. She hoped, however, that the
play would not suffer on that account, as she
meant to study it carefully in the meantime.

The same post brought a brief missive to
much the same effect from Dick. He, too,
did not see his way to being at home before
Christmas Eve, but had found a copy of Goldsmith,
was committing a stated portion of
dialogue to memory every night, and reciting
it before the looking-glass the next morning,
and expected to know his part perfectly by
the end of the year. Wished to be informed
whether he would be required to shave off his
moustache. Would prefer to retain it, for
choice, and had heard that there was some
dodge of gumming it do^vn, so as to render it
invisible beyond the foothghts ; but was ready
to make any sacrifice in the interests of art
and the drama.

It looks to me as if we were positively
courting disaster,' remarked Hope, after she
had read the substance of these two letters
aloud at the breakfast table. 'We shall all
be scattered abroad until the last moment,
and when we assemble we shall find ourselves
more abroad than ever.'

It Avill ao right enough, you'll see

answered Bertie confidently. ' Time great thing
is not to be nervous ; and I don't think any
of us suffer in that way. Besides, there are
only two absentees, after all, and the rest of
us must set to work to rehearse immediately.'
That much was soon accomplished by
means of a little decision and energy. The
household brigade was able to furnish a Tony
Lumpkin, the other subordinate characters
were procured from the neighbourhood, and
in the course of ten days or so a very fair
degree of proficiency was arrived at. Jacob
Stiles acquitted himself of his functions to
the general satisfaction, his suggestions with
regard to grouping and properties being thoroughly
artistic, and hampered by no dread of
expenditure ; insomuch that it was evident
that, whether the acting were first-rate or not,
the piece would be put upon the stage in a
style calculated to astonish a country audience.
His manner, moreover, was so quiet
and unobtrusive that even Carry did not feel
it necessary to put him back in his place
more than once or twice a day.

Carry herself was somewhat subdued at
this time. Her naturally imperious temper
seldom asserted itself, and, when it did, was
quelled by a word from Bertie Cunningham,
who ordered lier about unceremoniously, and
criticised her performance without mercy.
Her only wish was to please him, and this she
showed so plainly that Hope, little as she liked
her sister-in-law, could not help feeling sorry
for her. It is said that women have no great
sympathy with one another, as a rule ; but
there is one particular way in which no woman
likes to see another ill-used — unless, of course,
she be a rival. In the present case there
could not be any such cause for enmity, and
Hope could almost have found it in her heart
to do something towards bringing about the
ill-assorted match which had been contemplated,
now that there seemed to be so little
probability of its ever taking place. When
duty or pleasure (which of the two it was did
not quite clearly transpire) took Bertie away,
the two women became, if not friendly, at
least less intolerant of one another. Perhaps

Vol. II. K

the elder was not insensible to the younger's
complaisance in yielding the chief character
in the play to her without a murmur : perhaps
also she may have admitted to herself that
Hope had yet a further claim upon her gratitude,
since it was not to be supposed that
anyone could really prefer the society of Jacob
Stiles to that of Captain Cunningham.

Be this as it may, Dick, on his return
home for Christmas, found the peace appropriate
to the season reigning in his household,
together with as much of good-will as could
reasonably be looked for. His meeting with
his wife occurred in the presence of the servants,
where demonstrative affection would
have been out of place ; and it is not unlikely
that Hope had thought of this when she
hurried out into the hall to welcome the wanderer
back. Nevertheless, the calm, matter-of-course
manner in which he accosted her
chilled her a little. He was, as usual, good-humoured
and imperturbable ; he had no
account to give of his doings during the past
few weeks, nor, apparently, any curiosity to

be informed as to those of his wife. The only
question that he asked referred to Carry and
Bertie.

How are they getting on ? ' he inquired.
Any sign of coming to the point ? '

None whatever, that I can see,' replied
Hope. ' They were always together while he
was here ; but it seems to drag somehow. To
tell the truth, I don't think he is behaving
very well.'

Dick merely shrugged his shoulders, and
presently went away to his study. Hope saw
him no more until just before dinner, when it
appeared to strike him that it would be at
least civil to express some interest in his Tvdfe'^j
health, for he entered her dressing-room while
she was putting the finishing touches to her
toilet, and said : ' I hope you have been quite
well all this time.'

Hope, without turning round, answered
that she had been perfectly well.

That's all right. Spirits pretty good ? '

About as good as usual, I think,' replied
Hope, laughing a little.

K 2

That's all right,' said Dick again, in his
deliberate way. Then he advanced to the
dressing-table and laid sundry parcels, wrapped
in silver paper, down upon it. ' I stopped in
London on my way back,' he remarked, ' and
picked up these at the jeweller's. I thought
you might like to have them. They used to
belong to my mother, and I sent them to be
reset a short time ago.'

There must be something very wrong
about cats dio refuse fish, Lord Mayors who
do not care to accept a baronetcy, and
women who have no love for jewels. Hope,
fortunately for herself, was not abnormal to
that extent. She opened the velvet cases,
giving utterance to little cries of delight as,
one after another, the glittering clusters and
sprays of diamonds revealed themselves. ' Oh,
Dick ! ' she exclaimed, ' how lovely ! Why did
you not tell me that I was going to have all
these beautiful things ? '

Because I wanted to have the pleasure of
seeing you look as you are looking now,' he
answered.

'How am I looking now?' she asked, and
turned quickly towards the glass, wliicli
reflected a beautiful young face, with laughing
lips, dimpled cheeks, and eyes sparkling
like the diamonds that they had just been
gazing upon. She started at the sight of her
own image ; assuredly that was not her slice of
every day, nor anything resembling it. With
a sudden twinge of compunction she jumped
up, pushed back her chair, and laid both her
hands upon her husband's arm, looking up into
his face.

Dick,' she said, ' am I generally very
horrid ? Am I cross and impatient, without
any reason ? '

lie replied, with that terrible truthfulness
of his : ' Well, you are rather — sometimes.'

Hope's eyes dropped. ' I know I am,' she
murmured. ' I can't explain why ; I never
used to be like that in the old days — I mean
before my father died. But now — I don't
know — sometimes I feel as if there was nobody.
You wouldn't understand the feeling,
I suppose.'

'I think I do understand, though.' returned
Dick, kindly. ' I can imagine that I
should have just the same sort of sensation in
your solace. I should long to get hold of
Fate and punch her head ; and, as that is
impossible, I daresay I might relieve myself
by getting a human head into chancery and
punching that. But, after all, there is nothing
for it but to submit to perverse Fate. Submission
and pluck will pull you through ; and
if you haven't quite got the one yet, I know
you have the other.'

Possibly this may not have been the
rejoinder that Hope anticipated or desired ;
for it did not seem to please her much, and
her face grew graver. Presently, however,
she smiled again and remarked, with apparent
inconsequence : ' Well, at any rate, you must
have been thinking a little about me when you
ordered this pendant, because here are two
H's intertwined and an anchor, which I suppose
stands for Hope, and — what is that knot
at the top, Dick ? '

It's — it's — a sort of a bowline,' answered

Dick, departing for once from the path of
strict veracity. ' Yes, that pendant was a Utile
bit of additional extravagance of my own;
the diamonds don't belong to the old lot.
I designed it myself, and I think it reflects
some credit upon a man who hasn't had much
practice in that line. The anchor is meant to
be emblematic of your nature as well as your
name (because, you know, you are really
hopeful, though you may be a little down on
your luck every now and then), and the general
meaning of the whole composition is : " Xever
say die." '

Hope's eyes glistened as she looked up
at him. 'Dick,' she said, with a tremulous
little laugh, 'do you knows that you are very
funny ? I am not sure that I can quite make
you out ; but — but — I think I rather like
you.'

A look of sincere satisfaction overspread
Dick's features at this flattering announcement.
' That's the best news I have heard fora
long time ! ' he declared. ' We always were
friends from the first, and I believe wee shall

go on becoming better friends now till the
end of the chapter.'

So Hope fastened her pendant to the pearls
that she wore about her neck, and she and ,
her husband descended the stairs arm in arm,
as a united couple should, starting asunder ina
ludicrously guilty fashion when they Avere
confronted by the astonished countenance of
Miss Herbert.

After so promising a renewal of friendly
relations, it was to be regretted that the
arrival of Bertie Cunningham, Mrs. Pierpoint,
and various other guests should have interposed
fresh barriers between those whose
duty it was to entertain them. Dick devoted
himself assiduously to providing sport, in one
form or another, for the men ; and the task of
amusing the ladies, together with the many
other occupations incident to that season of
the year, effectually prevented Hope from
exchanofins^ ideas with her husband from
morning to night.

At her first view of Mrs. Pierpoint she
could not repress a start, which was not

altogether called forth by admiration of the
dainty little lady, wrapped in dark sables,
whose cheeks were delicately rosy from the
outer air, and whose tiny white hand, sparkling
with jewels, was extended to her. If
that was Bertie Cunningham's notion of one
who mis^ht be reo-added as ' a sort of a
mother,' he must be even more juvenile than
he looked. Yet, though Mrs. Pierpoint may
not have been exactly motherly in appearance,
she soon showed herself to be animated by
the true maternal instinct towards the young
guardsman who had arrived under her wing.
Hope, watching her, saw that she was watching
him, and that she viewed with approval
his somewhat ostentatious attentions to !Miss
Herbert. Worldly she might be, and possibly
mistaken as to the best means of promoting
her Mend's welfare ; but that she was disinterested
Hope felt sure. Moreover, the
touch of time became more legible upon her
brow in a stronger h^rht. For the rest, her
manners were charming, and at the rehearsal
which took place after dinner, she achieved a

success due quite as much to her good natured
energy in helping others, as to her really
clever interpretation of the character which
]had fallen to her own share.

Dick's histrionic talents were not of a
high order ; but he was docile, and had
learnt this lesson very carefully, while both
Miss Herbert and Captain Cunningham were
pronounced to be admirable in their respective
parts. The latter, indeed, received a
compliment, as soon as the performance was
over, which he would quite willingly have
dispensed with.

'Allow me,' said Mrs. Pierpoint, taking
advantage of the first opportunity that offered
to draw him aside, ' to congratulate you.
Your acting is excellent. Perhaps, if anything,
too excellent.'

Thanks ! ' answered Bertie. ' You mean
something more than you say, I presume.'

Fancy your having the brilliancy to make
such a discovery ! Yes, I actually do, I have
a deep meaning. And now, what defence
have you ready ? '

Oh, I am not so brilliant as all that comes
to. I never said I knew what you meant.'

And of course you can't guess. Well, to
save time, I will be perfectly explicit. You
are trying to run with the hare, and hunt
with the hounds. Poor Carry is to be
retained as a last resource, and in the meantime
it is not Carry's beaux yeux that have
induced you to stay several weeks on end ina
dull country house, and to get up a pla'
which will keep you here another fortnight
at least.'

I knew you would say that,' remarked
Bertie, resignedly. ' It's a pity that you should
be £0 horribly suspicious ; but I shall do no
good by protesting. If you had seen me
riding day after day with ]\Iiss Herbert, while
Lies. Herbert pottered about with that artist
fellow, maybe you would have believed in my
sincerity.'

There is a very simple way of proving
your sincerity,' remarked ]airs. Pierpoint.

Very well, but do allow me the privilege
of proving it at my own time.'

It strikes me that you have parted with
that privilege. You have gone too far now
to draw back, and I can't see what excuse you
have for putting off any longer what must be
done soon.'

And I can't see the reason for such breakneck
haste.'

Mrs. Pierpoint frowned. 'If you are not
engaged to Carry Herbert before the month
of January is over, I shall think very badly
of you,' she declared. ' To make sure of a
woman's consent to marry you, and then to
coolly keep her waiting until it is a question
between getting possession of her money and
going through the bankruptcy court, is not
pretty behaviour ; but to use her as a stalk-inshore
into the bargain — to pretend to
devote yourself to her in order that you may
live for a short time under the same roof
with her brother's wife is — what shall we
call it?'

We need not call it anything, since the
case does not exist,' answered Bertie. ' I'll
tell you what, Mrs. Pierpoint ; I don't often

lose my temper ; but if anybody but you had
said that, she shouldn't have had a second
chance of informing me that I am a blackguard.'


Mrs. PierjDoint did not seem to be greatly
impressed by this outburst of indignant innocence.
* As if you could deceive me, after all
these years ! ' she said. ' I know you sufficiently
well to be able to read you like a
book, my friend, and I haven't the slightest
doubt in my mind as to what has brought you
here at this moment. I had my suspicions
all along ; but as there is nothing like the
evidence of one's own senses, I accepted JMi's.
Herbert's invitation ; and when I saw you
stealing sidelong glances at her the whole
time that you were chattering so busily to
Carry, I was satisfied. Or, rather, I was
dissatisfied.'

So that was what brought you here, was
it ? ' said Bertie, with some displeasure.

Did you imagine, by any chance, that I
came here with a view to amusing myself?
Don't you think I might have found it justa

shade more enjoyable to spend Christmas
in London or at Melton than among a lot of
people whom I scarcely know, and who have
only invited me because they couldn't find
anybody else to take a part in their tedious
theatricals P '

I wish you had spent Christmas in
London, and asked me to spend it With you ! '
muttered Bertie, ruefully.

You forget that you were already engaged
here. And you must be still more
engaged before you leave. Come, Bertie,
you have chosen your fate, and it is not such
a bad one, as fates go. Believe me, you
won't repent of it, when once the plunge is
over. Have you ever repented following my
advice ? '

You have never advised me to take so
momentous a step as this before. Are you
so convinced that I should act wisely in
marrying a woman with whom I beg most
emphatically to assure you that I am not at
all in love ? '

It is a great deal too late to discuss that

question now. I consider that you are bound
in honour to propose to Carry. Added to
which, I am certain that you will propose to
her sooner or later. What I wish is that the
matter should be settled before complications
arise. You will hardly deny that complications
may arise ? '

But that is just what I do deny.'
Then I can only say that I am unable to
attach any importance to your denial. Once
for all, are you going to do as I tell you, or
are you not ? '

Oh, I suppose so,' answered Bertie, in a
sort of desperation. ' I always end by doing
as you tell me, and you are always right.
Xow perhaps you will be satisfied, and will
kindly leave ofi* scowling at me.'

CHAPTER XXIII.

AX Rehearsed EFFECT.

Taking a comprehensive survey of the population
of the British Isles, it must be conceded
that Christmas is merry to the majority. The
majority get good things, or what they consider
good things, to eat at that season ; they
receive presents or tips ; holidays are granted
to them, and they enjoy themselves by
dancing, flirting, loosing in pubic-houses, or
breaking one another's heads, according as
their various tastes may incline them. But
to the minority, who have to provide the tips
and presents and pay for the festivities, it is
apt to be a troublous time, fraught with present
anxieties and sad memories, and rendered
doubly distressing by reason of the enforced
joviality which must be assumed on its approach.

Dick Herbert, however, was one of
the exceptions which prove the rule. Having
plenty of money, be was very willing to disburse
it : without any personal King for
plum-pudding and mince-pies, be did not object
to look on whilst others devoured those
delicacies ; and although not himself a dancing
man, was prepared to encourage as much
dancing under bis roof as might be desired
by those wbo cared to disport themselves in
that way.

It was many years since Berkshire society
bad l)een entertained on a large scale at
Farndon Court ; but the servants always bad
their ball at Christmas, and on this occasion
its brilliancy was enhanced by the presence
of the young mistress of the house and her
guests.

Hope, after treading a solemn measure
with the butler, retired to her seat at the end
of the hall, with a strong impression upon her
mind that the sooner she retired altogether
the more lively the proceedings would probably
become ; but this modest view was evil

n. L

gently not shared by the rest of the company
from upstairs, who showed no inclination to
move, and seemed to derive much amusement
from a temporary suspension of class distinctions.
Bertie Cunningham, in particular,
was indefatigable. Even the stately housekeeper
was persuaded to jog through a polka
with him, after which Hope saw him tearing
round the room with housemaid after housemaid
; and from the red cheeks and delighted
gurgling of these young women, she judged
that he must be making himself very agreeable
indeed.

By-and-by he found his way to her side
and said, beseechingly : ' Mrs. Herbert, you'll
give me a dance, won't you ? I have induced
them to have a waltz. They don't much like
it ; they would prefer to have nothing but
polkas and galops ; but they have granted
this as a special favour to me, because I have
been so affable, and I want you to dance it
with me if you will.'

Hope stood up, but looked dubious. ' Had
you not better find a partner among the

servants ? ' lie asked. ' I don't think vre
ouf?ht to dance together, oucrht we ? '

'I daresay not,' answered Bertie, as he
placed his arm round her waist and whirled
her Lightly away ; ' but that makes it all the
pleasant. There is no pleasure in life so
great that it may not be made greater by a
conviction that it isn't altogether ricfht.'

I can't quite agree with you there,' said
Hope, laughing.

Ah, but you are not such a martyr to
duty as I am. You don't know what it is to
be harnessed and bitted and driven alone: the
dull high-road, when you want to be galloping
across country, and you can't understand
the wild delight of flinging up one's heels
occasionally. Xot that I am really flinging
my heels now, or that I ever shall again.'

Hope did not inquire his meaning; she
was satisfied with the exhilaration of rhythmic
movement and was scarcely listening to what
he said. But, losing breath at last, she signed
to him to stop, and then he suddenly burst
out laughing.

L 2

Do look at Mrs. Pierpoint being hustled
along by the coachman ! ' he exclaimed. 'Did
you ever see such an expression of suffering
and conscious virtue ? And, oh, isn't she
calling us bad names for enjoying ourselves,
instead of imitating her noble example ! '

Hope, glancing at Mrs. Pierpoint, was
unable to see any indication of that lady's
being so unamiable employed, and said as
much.

'Ah, that's because she knows we are
talking about her ; you ought to have seen
her a minute ao^o. She was looking dacforers
poisoned daggers at me.'

I thought you were so fond of her,' said
Hope.

So I am, in a general way ; but not tonight.
Were you fond of your parents when
they gave you nasty physic in your childhood
? I Wasn't fond of mine ; I positively
loathed them, though I have no doubt that
they did it for my good.'

Has Mrs. Pierpoint been giving you nasty
physic ? '

Bertie heaved a great sigh. ' Don't speak
of it ! ' he exclaimed. • I haven't swallowed
the dose yet, but I am going to swallow it ;
and when once it has been gulped down I
shall feel better, perhaps. At any rate, let us
hope so. In the meantime, I would rather
talk about any other subject.'

But he did not seem able to talk or think
of any other subject. He recurred to it, in
more or less plain language, every minute,
and Hope could hardly affect to misunderstand
his drift. In spite of herself she was
sorry for the poor young fellow. Of course
he deserved no sympathy ; what he was
pleased to call duty was really nothing but
selfishness, and if he was now compelled to
sell himself ito bondage, that necessity had
only been created by his own fault or this own
will. Xevertheless, she could not help feeling
for him in his present distress. Had not she
herself passed through a somewhat similar
struggle once upon a time ? He remained by
her side, and they danced together once more.
It would have been niggardly to refuse him a

favour for which he pleaded with so much
earnestness.

There ! ' he exclaimed tragically, when
the music ceased ; ' now it is all over ! The
old life has come to an end and the new life
is about to begin. Good-bye youth : good-bye
liberty ; good-bye — hope ! '

Then, as she glanced inquiringly at him,
Don't be offended,' he said ; ' I didn't spell
the word with a capital H ; I only meant
that in a few days' time I shall have nothing
left to hope for.'

Does that imply that you will have obtained
all that you want ? '

Exactly so ; I shall have got what I
wanted ! — unless by some miraculous piece of
luck, what I wanted should be refused tome.'


It was high time that such a conversation
as this should terminate ; and so Mrs. Pier-point
may have thought, for she now bore
down upon the couple, and, after a few
minutes, drew the reluctant Bertie away.

Hope got no further speech of him until

the succeeding? evening, when a final clress-re-
hearsay for the theatricals had been appointed
to take place. These promised to prove a
genuine success, thanks partly to the dexterous
management of sirs. Pierpoint, and
partly to that of Jacob, who had spared no
pains to bring the mise en scene up to the high
standard of excellence demanded by the taste
of the present day. There was a sufficiency
of antique, albeit recently acquired, furniture
at Farndon to provide all that was
necessary to reproduce the semblance of an
old-fashioned English parlour ; there were
family portraits and antlers to adorn its walls,
and finally, Jacob being in want of some
object to fill up a corner, fixed his choice
upon a marble bust of some defunct Herbert,
which, with its pedestal, he caused to be
dragged on to the stage — an unlucky inspiration,
as matters turned out ; for this bust was
destined to play as dramatic a part in the
performance as the statue of the Commander
in ' Don Giovanni,' and the consequences of
its removal were both many and far-reaching.

However, it looked very well with a
glimpse of red curtain behind it, and got into
nobody's way until the rehearsal was all but
finished. It was when the entire strength of
the company was drawn up near the footlights
for the final scene that the impersonator
of Tony Lumpkin, who had been plunging
about the stage throughout with a good deal
of needless exuberance, managed to fall foul
of it, and very nearly put an end to his
career then and there by his impetuosity.
For, starting forward to renounce Constance
Neville with the clumsy gait which lie conceived
to resemble that of his original, he
lurched against the pedestal and upset its
equilibrium. Had he not at the same time
upset his own, he might perhaps have been
killed ; as it was, he was sent sprawling upon
his face, and for an instant the tottering mass
of marble seemed about to descend upon Mrs.
Herbert's head.

Bertie saw the danger just in time to
avert it. He pushed Hope forcibly away,
and at the same moment the heavy bust fell

^'ith a crash, breaking through the thinking
of the stage. The pedestal folio wed suit, and,
after knocking Bertie over, rolled slowly as
far as the foothghts, most of which it smashed
and extinguished. A great hubbub ensued,
succeeded by general laughter and mutual
congratulations. Dick vas the first to notice
that Bertie was still lying prone and making
no efibrt to rise.

Get up I ' said he, employing his customary
formula.

Can't, old chap,* answered Bertie, with a
faint smile ; ' I've broken my leg.'

Nonsense ! ' exclaimed Dick, dropping
hurriedly upon his knees beside his prostrate
friend.

By Jove, he has though ! ' he muttered
presently ; ' that infernal pedestal must have
come down upon the top of him. What the
deuce do people want with busts on a stage ?
Here, somebody run and fetch a blanket, and
we'll pass it under him. Hope, send off a
groom to tell Dr. Simpson he is wanted
immediately, and let him know what has

happened. We'll soon put you all right.
Cunningham; only we shall have to move
you into the next room. You mustn't mind
a minute or two of pain.'^

Anybody who has either broken his own
leg or seen another person's leg broken knows
what the process of removal is like and
whether the pain entailed thereby is usually
trifling. In Bertie's case this was accomplished
as skilfully as possible ; but the pallor
of his face and the drops that started out
upon his forehead showed what he had to
suffer during the brief transit. However, he
kept his lips tightly closed and did not utter
so much as a groan ; thus earning golden
opinions from his host, who exclaimed afterwards
with unwonted warmth : ' That's a
plucky little chap ! I wish it had been the
other duffer's leg instead of his. No more
hunting for him this season, I'm afraid.'

Oh, if that is all ! ' returned Hope, to
whom this characteristic expression of regret
was addressed. ' But is he very much hurt,
Dick? Do you think it is serious? '

Well, it isn't a compound fracture, if
that's what you mean, but it's a pretty bad
break, I expect. However, we shall see what
the doctor says.'

The doctor, when he arrived, did not seem
much inclined to say anything to anybody
until the injured Hmb had been set ; but, this
operation having been accomplished, he looked
into the drawing-room to allay the anxiety of
the little group of ladies who were waiting
there.

'We shall not have to cut the young
gentleman's leg off this time,' he announced
cheerfully ; ' but he must remain on his back
for six weeks or thereabouts, and for the
present, if you please, he is to be kept quite
quiet.'

Thus it was that ' She Stoops to Conquer '
was never performed at Farndon Court, after
all ; and those who were to have taken part
in the play, feeling that their presence was
superfluous, made haste to leave. Mrs. Pier-point
went with the rest. Just before her
departure she was allowed a short interview

with the sufferer, and expressed her sorrow
for his accident, as well as her very sincere
regret that she could not stay and nurse him.

But I don't suppose I should be allowed
to do that, if I did stay,' she remarked ; ' and
I am leaving you in good hands.'

She had not the cruelty to add a word of
caution, though sorely tempted to do so. If
Bertie was to break his leg at all, nothing
could be better than that he should do so in a
house where Carry would be able to while
away the slow hours of convalescence for
him. On the other hand, nothing could be
worse than that Mrs. Herbert should have
opportunities of engaging in the same work
of mercy. ' Fortunately,' reflected the little
lady, "• Carry is quite capable of holding her
prey. I should not care to dispute it with
her myself. And Mrs. Herbert seems to be a
good, innocent sort of woman. She won't do
wrong intentionally — if that is any safeguard.'

Carry, indeed, was not slow to assert her
rights, if such they could be called ; and
it must be owned that Bertie found her

pleasant company now than lie had ever
done before. She was perfectly quiet and
self-possessed ; she was always at his side
when wanted, yet never in the way ; she made
friends with the trained nurse who had been
sent for and was highly commended by that
functionary, while Hope was given to understand
that ladies were a great trouble and
hindrance in a sick-room. All of which was
quite as it should have been.

The one inconsolable person in the house
was Jacob Stiles, who reproached himself
bitterly with having been the cause of the
disaster. ' You see,' he said to Hope, ' what
a mistake it is to have anything to do with
me. I am born to bad luck, and nothing
that I touch can prosper. Why wasn't I the
one to save you and get my leg broken ? '

This was probably what Jacob felt to bethe
worst piece of luck in the whole business.

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE PLEASURES OF HOPE.

This,' remarked Carry, in a tone of deep
vexation, as lie looked up from a letter that
she was perusing at breakfast one morning,
'is Aunt Anne all over. I expected no less
of her. Never, from the day of my birth upto
the present moment, has she missed an
opportunity of putting me to inconvenience ;
and if this is to be her last request, as she
assures me it will be, she will have the
satisfaction of knowing that she has been
consistent to the end.'

What has she been doing now ? ' inquired
Dick.

Eeally I don't quite knoAV. Most likely
she has only caught a cold in her head ; but
she swears she is dying and implores me to

come and be reconciled " to her. I was not
aware that we had had a quarreL'

H'm ! You had a pretty good imitation
of one, to the best of my recollection. Shall
you go ? '

I suppose I must ; but it is most provoking.
How like her to send for me just
when I am wanted at home ! I don't remember
that I ever before was particularly wanted
either at home or elsewhere.'

And now you are wanted in two places
at once. Flattering, but troublesome. Aunt
Anne,' added Dick explanatory', for Hope's
benefit, ' is the sole survivor of my mother's
family. She resides in Yorkshire, and at one
time there was an idea of Carry's living with
her. It was then that they — didn't quarrel.
The experiment was persevered with, I believe
for a week '

Nearly a month,' interpolated Carry.

So much as that ? Anyhow it was abandoned,
and they have never met since. Aunt
Anne is possessed of considerable property,
and we are her nearest relatives.'

She may leave lier property to you. or
to a hospital, or take it with her, for anything
that I care,' Carry declared ; ' but if she is
really as ill as she professes to be, someone
ought to be with her, and I know it wouldn't
be the least use to ask you to go.'

She wouldn't see me,' answered Dick ; ' I
offended her beyond all chance of pardon
years ago by declining to marry somebody
whom she had kindly picked out for me, and
you see she doesn't even express a wish to be
reconciled with me at this supreme moment.
Probably you will find her all right, and we
shall have you back again in a day or two.
We'll endeavour to take care of Cunningham
during your absence.'

Oh, the nurse will take care of him. If
only you will abstain from bothering him he
will do well enough. And I don't think I
need be long away,' continued Carry, musingly.
In a week, at the outside, one ought to be
able to tell how things will go.'

Possibly it may have consoled her to
know that Bertie, at all events, must be a

mixture for many weeks to come. She softened
the pain of parting for him by an
assurance that she would be with him again
very shortly ; and the invalid, whom a feverish
and restless night had left indifferent to all
that might take place outside the four walls
of his room, murmured what was fitting in
reply, without much animation in his tone.
He had almost, if not quite, forgotten that
he had been upon the brink of proposing
to Miss Herbert before he lead created a
diversion by pulling a bust down upon himself,
and felt neither joy nor sorrow at her
departure.

This unnatural apathy, however, lasted no
longer than the sleeplessness to which it was
due, and in a few days' time he was able to
hear with a distinct sensation of pleasure that
Carry would be prevented from redeeming
her promise of a speedy return. Her Aunt
Anne, it appeared, was suffering from an
attack of bronchitis, which the doctors believed
must end fatally, but, With glaring bad
taste and selfishness, she was clinging to life

Vol. n. M

in a manner which seemed to presage a prolonged
struggle.

She won't hear of my leaving her,' Carry
wrote, ' and as the first thing she said to me
was that she had made a will in my favour, I
can't very well turn my back upon the poor
old woman. Please tell Captain Cunningham
how distressed I am that I am unable to be
of any use to him in his illness, and warn him
that he must be very careful not to over-exert
himself and not to talk too much.'

The above passage occurred in a letter
addressed to Hope, and was read aloud by
her to the patient, who observed, with a
smile, that he didn't see how a man in his
position could over-exert himself. ' And, as
for talking, you don't give me a great many
chances of doing that.'

Have we left you too much alone ? '
asked Hope, anxiously. ' I would have sat
with you longer, only I was afraid you would
be tired ; and indeed I believe Carry is right :
you ought not to talk. Would you like me
to read something to you ?

Bertie thanked her and said that he would.
The truth was that he cared very little how
she was employed, so long as she remained insight.
There are people whose mere presence
in the room is soothing to a fretful convalescent
— whose voices and gestures are ' like
the melody that's sweetly played in tune ' ;
just as, unhappily, there are others whose
proximity can only suggest the idea of a
discord. Bertie, lying on his back and following
Hope with his eyes, as she moved
noiselessly hither and thither, found similes
for her which quite astonished him by their
gracefulness, seeing that he was not, at
ordinary times, of a poetic turn. But certain
circumstances will convert the veriest clod
into a poet of a kind, and Bertie was powerless
to disguise from himself the fact that to
those circumstances he was now a prey.
Probably he did not attempt to deceive himself
about the matter ; for according* to his
system of ethics it was no great sin to be in
love with a married woman ; it was one of
those things that a fellow couldn't help.

Between being in love and declaring one's'
love there is, however, obviously a wide distinction
; which distinction he stoutly bore
in mind. And this was the more creditable
because self-denial was to him an absolutely
novel experience. Anyone who should have
told this young man that he was doing wrong
in harbouring feelings which afforded him so
sweet a melancholy, and that it was his duty
to crush them ruthlessly, would have surprised
him very much indeed. His own
belief was that, on the contrary, he would do
himself a great deal of good by encouraging
them. His thoughts about Hope were all
pure, refined, and elevating ; she made him
feel ashamed of his past and present life, a
thing which lie lead never felt before ; he
wished for her sake — though, to be sure, it
would make no difference to her — that he
could achieve something fit to command the
admiration of his fellow-men, ' like that beggar
Stiles ' : there were even moments when he
contemplated setting up an entirely changed
standard for his future guidance — the standard

taught liirn by his mother with the aid
of the Church Catechism ever so many years
ago, and which no single human being whom
he was acquainted with acted up to or thought
of acting up to. However, it must be confessed
that, upon mature reflection, he did
not see his way to going quite such lengths
as that. For the present, it seemed sufficient
to form sundry good resolutions, which at
all events could not be broken until his le^^
was mended.

Hope, quite unconscious of the beneficial
influence that she was exercising upon her
patient, thought him greatly changed for the
better by the uses of adversity. His patience
and cheerfulness were admirable ; he never
grumbled nor admitted that he was in pain ;
he had laid aside the little airs and affectations
of a young man much sought after in
society, and discoursed frankly and naturally,
like the grown-up schoolboy that he was.
He told her all about his home and his
brothers and sisters ; and she, in return,
spoke more freely to him of her father and

lier past life than lie had ever spoken to her
husband. The difference between Bertie and
Dick was that the former was profoundly
interested in everything that concerned her,
while the latter evidently was not. Now, if
there is one thing more than another which
a young and beautiful woman is entitled to
resent, it is being treated with the utmost
indulgence and consideration by a man who
takes no interest in her. Dick, therefore,
earned very little gratitude by presents of
diamonds, and not much more by taking his
wife out hunting, and thus utterly sacrificing
his own sport. Hope, mounted on a powerful
and well-trained animal, and fortified by the
instructions of Jacob, did not come to grief
a second time ; but she had hardly experience
enough to be trusted without a pilot, and
when she found that Dick was determined
not to leave her to her own devices, she declared
that hunting did not amuse her, and
refused to persevere with it.

'You yourself told me that you did not
think the hunting-field the proper place for a

lady,' she said, in answer to Dick's protestations,
and, as lie was too honest to withdraw
a rashly expressed opinion, that clinched the
matter.

Some men might have thought that their
wives would be safer in the hunting-field than
by the couch of a fascinating youth ; but
Dick was not of that mind. It was into his
study that Bertie had been carried on the
night of the accident, and there the invalid
had remained ever since, a bed having been
brought downstairs for him. Dick used to
stride in thither, booted and spurred, when
he returned home in the evening, and would
sit for awhile, listening contentedly to the
light conversation which his entrance did not
interrupt. Hope had taken to painting again.
Her easel had been placed in the window, so
that she could work and keep the prostrate
Bertie entertained at one and the same time.
Sometimes Jacob Stiles was induced to descend
from his lair and aid her with his
counsels ; but he generally rose and stole
away when the master of the house appeared.

Thus the weeks slipped away pleasantly
enoiigli for all the inmates of Farndon Court,
and it is to be feared that not one of them
regretted poor Miss Herbert, detained in
Yorkshire by the exasperating vitality of
Aunt Anne, who, during this period, had
been again and again at the point of death,
but had always rallied, and who maintained
her hold upon her niece with a tenacity which
it may be hoped, for the credit of human
nature, that she would have relaxed had she
known what terrible havoc was being wrought
with her niece's prospects thereby.

For it is certain that, before his accident,
Bertie had finally determined to ask Miss
Herbert to marry him, and it is probable
that, if she had lingered by his bedside, he
would have carried his determination into
effect. Now, however, all was changed.
Providence had interfered ; circumstances
for which he could not be held accountable
had given him a respite ; and this he did not
fail to represent in answer to certain anxious
missives which reached him from Mrs. Pier-point.

Few and brief were the replies obtained
from him by Mrs. Pierpoint ; few and
brief also were those which he despatched to
Yorkshire, whence Carry wrote him letters
of several sheets, which she did her utmost
to render amusing, knowing full well that he
would never read them if they were not. To
anyone who could read between the lines —
as Bertie should certainly have been able todo
— there was something not a little pathetic
in the laborious jocularity of these
compositions, interspersed here and thereby
some involuntary phrases which betrayed
the writer's uneasiness ; but their recipient
was not touched by them ; for in all the
world there is no creature so hard-hearted asa
lover.

It so chanced that the climate, all through
that winter, exhibited itself in one of the
gentlest of its many moods. A mild, moist
January was succeeded by a February so
warm that people who ought to have known
better declared winter to be at an end, and
Nature herself, always ready to be deceived

by this ancient trick, began pushing forward
her preparations for the coming spring as
though there had been no such things as
March east winds and April frosts to ruin
her handiwork. But English ]people must
take their weather as it comes and be thankful
when they can. To be able to lie in an
invalid-chair out of doors in the month of
February is something to be thankful for
when your walking powers are in abeyance,
and Bertie freely admitted as much, adding
that he would be most happy to break his
other leg for the sake of spending six more
such weeks as he had just left behind him.

This was said with artless spontaneity in
the presence of Dick, who remarked placidly :
What a tremendous cram ! ' But Hope
thought it a very pretty speech, even though
it were a trifle hyperbolical. She was not
so selfish as to wish that their guest should
pass through a second six weeks of suffering ;
but she would gladly have kept him with
them a little longer, and was rather annoyed
with the doctor for forcing the young man

to begin walking as soon as he could put his
foot to the ground. He himself protested
that he took this first step ^vith the utrliost
reluctance. ' I was in hopes that I shouldn't
be able to manage it,' he said ; ' but the
melancholy fact is that I am very nearly as
sound as ever. And what are legs given to
one for except to carry one away ? '

And to bring one back again,' remarked
Dick. ' Windsor isn't quite at the Antipodes,
you know.'

Xo ; but after <zivinof you such a dose ot
my company, I shan't venture to come over
often. Besides, you will be moving; to London
before long, I suppose.'

So will you, for the matter of that. By
the way, Hope, I was going to ask you whether
you would mind running up to town with me
for a couple of days next week. I have heard
of a house for sale in Bruton Street which I
think might do for us, and I should like you
to have a look at it.'

This was the first that Hope had heard of
her husband's intention to set up a London

establishment, and she expressed some surprise.


I thought it would be more comfortable
for you,' Dick explained. 'It's a nuisance
having to hire every season, and I believe it
costs nearly as much, in the long run, as
having a house of your own. You'll excuse
our leaving you for forty-eight hours, won't
you, Cunningham ? '

My dear fellow, I don't think I shall be
here next week,' answered Bertie.

But neither Dick nor Hope would hear
of his hastening his departure, and as the
doctor backed them uj), saying that Captain
Cunningham was certainly not quite fit to
return to duty yet, it was agreed that he
should allow himself a further ten days of
repose.

There was no fault to be found with the
house in Bruton Street, nor very much with
its furniture, which was to be had at a valuation
and which Dick was in favour of purchasing
As to that, however, he besfi^ed
Hope to please herself. If she preferred to

choose her own furniture, she was at Liberty
to do so ; but she replied quite sincerely that
she did not care enough about the matter to
take all that trouble. She might have cared,
if he had ; for she had the eye of an artist,
besides a woman's natural love for pretty
surroundings ; but it is dull work to have
only one's self to please. Hope was satisfied
to make a very brief inspection of her future
London home ; having done which, she left
Dick to arrange details with his lawyers, and
drove off to see Mills, by whom she was received
with a loud and joyful welcome. The
rooms which she had once occupied were
tenantless, and thither mills conducted her,
seating herself upon the edge of a chair and
contemplating her young mistress with eyes
of pride and contentment.

Poor old room ! ' murmured Hope, gazing
round her at the four walls, which somehow
seemed to have contracted a little since she
had seen them last ; ' I was very happy
here.'

How you can talk so ! ' cried Mills, not

ill-pleased. ' 'Twas no place for you, ma'am,
and glad I am that you're out of it ; though
I've missed you terrible.'

Then she proceeded to make many inquiries
about Mr. Herbert and Farndon Court,
and was glad to learn that the flattering
reports which had reached her of both had
not been exaggerated. 'As for your being
happy, I don't need to ask no questions about
that ; 'tis enough to look at your face. There's
only one thing more you want.'

And what is that ? ' asked Hope, unsuspiciously.


Why, a little son and heir, my dear,'
replied Mills, with great archness of manner.
Aren't you going to let your poor old nurse
hold a baby in her arms again ? '

Hope thought this remark of Mills' in
rather bad taste ; but, not wishing to take
offence where none was meant, she only
answered that there was no prospect of the
event alluded to occurring, and changed the
subject.

From Henrietta Street she had herself

driven to South Kensington to exchange
greetings nth another old friend. Tristram
was at home, and the forbidding frown which
had gathered on his brow at the announcement
that a lady wished to speak to him
vanished when the identity of his visitor
became revealed.

You are the very person whom I wanted
to see ! ' he exclaimed, as he shook hands with
her. ' ^Yhat is this I hear about a young
artist of the highest promise whom you are
keeping hidden down in Berkshire ? I saw a
few of his pictures the other day, and I give
you my word that they took my breath away.
Wliat a draughtsman ! AVhat a colourist !
Who in the world is he ? And why has he
never exhibited ? '

Hope furnished the required particulars,
while Tristram listened to her attentively.
When she had done : ' Give my compliments
to your young friend,' said he, ' and tell him
that I will venture upon a prophecy about
him. In a very few years' time he will be
well on his way towards making a large

fortune, and he will be the most popular artist
in England.'

I am very glad to hear you say so
remarked Hope. ' But why ? '

For three good reasons. Firstly, because
he can draw ; secondly, because he can paint ;
thirdly, because, judging by such of his productions
as I have seen, he has very little
taint of originality in him. Just listen to this,'
added Tristram, catching up a newspaper
which was lying beside him : ' the criticism
doesn't refer to your friend, but it is just as
edifying as if it did. "It is always a relief to

pause before one of Mr. 's canvases. In

his careful and admirable handiwork we find
none of that undisciplined fancy, that straining
after bizarre effects, that determination to be
singular at any price, which so sadly disfigure

modern Art. Mr. is content to adopt the

canons upheld by generation after generation
of illustrious predecessors ; he has had the
wisdom to concede that Art is governed by
certain laws which no man may venture to
transgress. Of these laws he has gained a

thorough knowledge ; by the light of them he
has laboured, and it is to his allegiance to

them that he owes " &c., &c., &c. I haven't

the patience to read on : I don't know what
it is that he owes to his allegiance to the
laws of Art — the praise of this competent
critic, perhaps. Who the deuce ever said
that Art had no laws ? It is as if somebody-should
pompously announce that Gray is a
poet and Browning isn't, because Gray happened
to live at a period when poets were
tied and bound by laws that were not laws of
Art at all, and had to amble along as best they
could, like Arab horses ; whereas Browning,
who has had the good fortune to flourish a
century later, may kick about as he pleases.
I don't deny that Gray was a poet, I don't
deny that this man is an artist. But, by
George ! I am an artist too.'

Tristram was fast working himself up into
a rage, and felt that it was time to desist.
'Well, well,' he said, 'I daresay all this
doesn't interest you much. But inform your
young friend from me that he has a great

YoL. 11. N

career before him. I should say that he has
as much technical knowledge as any man in
England, and he possesses the priceless merit
of being commonplace. Let him stick to that
and he will do. Now let us have a look at
you.'

He knitted his brows, scrutinising her
closely for a few seconds, and it seemed as if
the conclusions at which he arrived from a
study of her face were not identical with those
drawn by Mills, for he ejaculated ' Hah ! '
And then, ' Have you fallen back upon painting
yet?'

'I have lately,' answered Hope, a little
confused by his abruptness.

I thought so. You are quite right ; you
will never have a better friend than art.
What sort of a life do you lead at Farndon
Court ? How do you employ yourself everyday?'


Hope answered by giving him a list of her
ordinary duties and occupations, amongst
which she omitted to mention that of nursing
Captain Cunningham. She did not wish

Tristram to suppose that lie was dissatisfied
with her lot, and laid a good deal of stress
upon her husband's kindness, giving, as one
instance of it, the circumstance that he had
just purchased a house in London for her
especial benefit. But there is reason to believe
that she failed in throwing dust in the eyes of
her auditor, who wound up the interview by
remarking :

You haven't changed, I see ; your face
is the same as when I painted your portrait
how long ago is it? You are still Hope.
Well, you might be worse off. I suppose
there can't be a great many happy people
in the world ; perhaps there is no such thing
as happiness, and perhaps hope is the best
substitute for it that exists. Do you know
those hues beginning —

Esperance qui m'accompagnes,
Depuis qu'ensemble nous allons
A travers bois, pres et montagnes,
Ai-je jamais trouve les chemins longs ?

They always remind me a little of you somehow.'


N 2

He followed her to the outer door and
lingered for a moment, looking at her with
the wistful expression which his eyes took • at
times. ' Don't ask too much of life,' he said ;
but don't sink into acquiescence either.
Maybe a good time is coming, and if it isn't,
what matter, so long as you can look forward
to it ? I'll dine with you some evening when
you come up to town, if you'll ask me ; and
that is more than I would say to any other
lady in London, let me tell you.'

Hope went her way, a little perturbed by
Tristram's observations and a little ashamed
that she should have allowed her thoughts to
be so readily divined. The concluding stanza
of the short poem that he had quoted hung in
her memory as she went —

A travers bois, pres et montagnes,
A tes cotes pressant le pas,
Esp^rance qui m'accompagnes,
March ons toujours, garrisons pas !

Possibly Tristram and the French poet might
be right ; possibly it is better to long for what
will never come than to sit down in a sort of

contented despair and make the best of what
cannot be helped. Still, in order to taste the
pleasures of hope, one should at least have
some approximate idea of what it is that one
hopes for.

CHAPTER XXV.

THE TEMPLE OF FAME.

To all the ills of this mortal life, there is no
surer antidote than that of a fine, healthy
self approbation. A man may lose his professional
renown, his political influence, his
heart, or even his money, and yet so long ashe
can say to himself : ' Well, at any rate,
what has happened is no fault of mine ; I
have done my duty all along, and though
some people may pity me, nobody will venture
to blame me ' — so long as he can indulge in
these or similar cogitations, it is certain that
he will not be altogether miserable. And the
fortunate thing is that this remedy does not
at all depend for its success upon the veracity
of the agitator, but only upon his sincerity ;
so that it may be confidently recommended to

all who possess the power of deceiving themselves
: which is as much as to say that it is
quite good enough for most of us.

By Bertie Cunningham it was felt to be an
immense alleviation of the pain which his impending
departure from Farndon could not but
cause him. When the last day of his sojourn
in what to him had been an earthly paradise
arrived, when his servant had packed up his
belongings, when breakfast was over, and when
he sauntered off to the conservatory to say a
few last words to Mrs. Herbert, who had happened
to mention that she was going thither,
his conscience applauded him so loudly that,
for the first time in his life, he recognised
how truly valuable a possession that invisible
counsellor may prove, upon occasion. He
had behaved in all respects like a gentleman,
he had injured neither his friend nor his
friend's wife ; in all his protracted talks With
Hope he had said nothing which he might not
have said before any number of auditors.
And if it should strike the reader that this
was rather too negative a kind of righteousness

to boast of, let him place himself in
Bertie Cunningham's position and try to be
more charitable. An aged Scotchman once
mentioned with 2:)ride to a contemporary
gammer that she had never throughout her
long life been guilty of a slip from the path
of virtue. ' Violins ye were nae temptation,'
observed the other drily. We are not all
young guardsmen of exceptional beauty of
person; experience has not led us all to believe
that we can achieve an easy victory over
any woman's heart ; nor, happily, have we all
been tauf]^ht to take Bertie's light view of the
sanctity of the marriage-tie.

It was, perhaps, just as well that he was
invigorated at the moment by breathing the
pure air of high principle ; for Hope did not
disguise her sorrow at losing him, and, had
she been anybody else, there can be no doubt
but that he would have endeavoured to console
her in his customary manner. As it way
he only shook his head mournfully and declared
that he felt as if he were going back to
school after the holidays — ' only more so.'

And yet,' remarked Hope, ' I suppose you
liked school when you were there ? '

That's the worst of it ; one doesn't break
one's heart, whatever happens. The world
goes on, and everything is soon forgotten.
Not that I shall ever forget your kindness tome,
Mrs. Herbert. It's no use to attempt to
thank you ; I haven't the eloquence of your
friend Stiles. You ouijht to hear him talk
about you ! If you will get him to give you
his estimate of your character and take the
square of that, you will arrive at a faint
understanding of the feelings which I can't
express.'

All that because I sometimes read aloud
to you when you were ill ? ' asked Hope,
laughing.

Xo, because — because you are yourself,
I suppose. Well ; it is all over now, and I
have got to pick up my life where I left it.'

Is that absolutely necessary ? ' inquired
Hope, snipping off a flower from its stem.

'Absolutely, I should say. Nothing is altered
; it's a case of " As you were ! " All my

old difficulties are waiting for me, and there
is only the one old way of getting out of
them

Hope laid down her basket and scissors,
and looked earnestly at her companion. ' Do
you know,' she said, ' what I would do, if I
were in your place ? '

I daresay I can guess. You would resign
your commission, and go in for cattle-ranching
in Texas. When you were out there, you
would live with the utmost frugality, and send
home periodical cheques, until the last of
your debts was paid. Then by degrees you
would accumulate a fortune, and you would
return to England in a green old age, with a
view to devoting the remainder of your days
to good works.'

'I don't know about Texas,' said Hope,
but I would certainly give up the Guards,
and I would certainly pay my debts. I would
pay them by my own exertions too,' she
added, after a momentary hesitation.

'I haven't a doubt of it. But sou are a
saint, and I am a sinner. The most that can

be looked for from me is that perhaps, after
knowing you, I may be a little bit less of a
sinner in future.'

Hope lead not much to say in answer to
this. The subject of Bertie's possible marriage
to her sister-in-law was always a repugnant
one to her. She felt that it would be disloyal
to the latter to dissuade him from it,
and yet she was convinced that nothing but
unhappiness could come of such a union. At
the bottom of her heart she scarcely believed
that it would ever take place ; she fancied, too,
that Bertie had rather more manliness in his
composition than he was pleased to give himself
credit for.

For about a week after he had gone she
missed him very much : but he was not indispensable
to her, and although she felt
lonely at times — for Dick had always one
excuse or another for absenting himself from
morniuCT till night, and Jacob's morbid dread
of being thought intrusive kept him pretty
constantly out of sight — she managed to get
through the days, and found solitude infinitely

preferable to the companionship of Carry,
whose letters from Yorkshire had of late
assumed a tone of hopeless resignation.

Aunt Anne sits in one room all day long,'
she wrote, ' with a couple of tea-kettles boiling
on the lire to keep the air moist, and the
doctor says she will probably take a turn for
the better, and I shall obtain my release
when the warm weather comes. But as for
my getting away within any period that can
be counted by weeks, that is past praying for.
It now only remains for the dear old lady to
get perfectly well, live for another ten years,
and cut me off with a sixpence.'

Easter fell early that year, and the trees
round about Farndon Court were only beginning
to be tipped with green here and there,
when Mr. and Mrs. Herbert made their move
to London for the season. And very soon
after their arrival in Bruton Street, Hope was
brought to a realising sense of how serious a
matter a London season is for those whose
acquaintance is large. The shoals of cards
which she found in the hall every afternoon

speedily made the purchase of a visiting-book
imperatively necessary, and she was invited to
many more entertainments than she could
possibly attend. The incessant racket and
bustle of this new life was not disagreeable
to her, entering upon it, as she did, with all
the curiosity of inexperience ; only she felt
that she would be able to enjoy herself more
when once the ceremony of her presentation
should be safely over. That ordeal, which she
had been prevented from undergoing before
her marriage, could now be no longer postponed
; and her aunt, who was to present her,
was exceedingly anxious that her dress should
be worthy of the occasion. This, being constructed
by a celebrated artiste, who had been
troubled by no conditions as to price, proved
beautiful enough to bear even Lady Jane's
critical inspection ; yet it was not nearly so
beautiful as its wearer, whose arrival in all
the glory of the Herbert diamonds caused
quite a little sensation at the palace.

Indeed, in a surprisingly short space of
time Hope found herself famous. Loyalty

had been graciously pleased to make some
complimentary remarks upon lier appearance,
which of course were reported to her afterwards
; everybody who did not know her
begged to be introduced, and she might erelong,
had she been so minded, have been
numbered among those ladies to whom has
been given the somewhat equivocal title of
professional beauties. Happily, the current
of her ambition did not set that way. She
desired only to see the world and to be
amused — or, at least, if she desired anything
more, she was not, for the time being, aware
of the fact.

While Hope was thus achieving a social
triumph, Jacob Stiles was earning laurels in
what may perhaps be considered a more
honourable field. The two pictures which he
sent up to the Academy that year were not
only accepted, not only hung on the line and
praised without stint by the critics, but had
the good fortune to commend themselves at
once to the favour of the public, which clustered
round them in such large numbers that

a policeman had to be told off for the especial
duty of keeping the gangway in front
of them clear. The first of these works represented
a chariot race at Constantinople in
the time of Justinian, and was considered by
high authorities to be infinitely the finer of
the two. It contained an immense number
of figures, grouped with great skill, so that
the effect of monotony, which is one of the
dangers of such subjects, was completely
avoided. The whole composition was extremely
spirited, and both horses and charioteers
were drawn in such a manner as to
display the artist's thorough knowledge of
anatomy. The second picture, which was in
some sort a pendant to the first and attracted
a somewhat larger crowd of admirers, was
entitled ' Ascot on the Cup Day.' The scene
was one with which Jacob had good reason
to be familiar, and it would not have been
easy to pick holes in his treatment of it.
What he had chosen to depict was neither
the race nor the Eoyal procession up the
course, but the filing of the horses out of the

paddock, under the anxious scrutiny of the
throng gathered about them. Such a theme
was, of course, wanting both in novelty and
in artistic accessories : the chief merit of the
picture lay in the varied expressions of the
different faces — amongst which some excellent
likenesses were discernible — and in the appearance
of the horses, every detail of which
was rendered with an accuracy and minuteness
which perhaps could hardly have been
attained by anyone who had not passed a
good many years of his life in a training-stable.


Both pictures were new to Hope ; for
Jacob, who had been a long time at work
upon them, had never removed them from his
studio in Gower Street. Other engagements
jure vented her from attending the private
view, and it was only after the Academy had
been open for some ten days that she and her
husband found an opportunity of inspecting
what were already declared on all sides to
be its chief attractions. She had not been
standing in rapt admiration before the first

of the large canvases for more than five
minutes, and Dick had not swallowed more
than three or four yawns, when a well-known
voice, close to her ear, remarked : ' This is
what I call luck.'

Captain Cunningham ! ' exclaimed Hope,
turning round with a bright smile of welcome
; ' I was wondering when we should
meet assail. and I have been looking out for
you at every party since we came to London.
It is indeed a piece of luck that we should
chance to come across each other in this
crowd.'

'Ah, but that wasn't quite what I meant,'
answered Bertie. ' The fact is that I saw
Herbert at the club last night and he told me
you would be here to-day, so that my presence
isn't exactly due to luck or chance.
Stiles is the lucky man. I congratulate him
and I envy him. I shall never see you
looking at me with that expression of countenance.'


It is extremely unlikely that you ever
will,' said Hope, laughing ; ' but then you do

^'oL. n.

not happen to be a picture. If you can
induce Mr. Stiles to paint your portrait, I
have no doubt that I shall be able to gaze
at it with an expression of countenance which
will satisfy you.'

'For the sake of the artist, not of the
subjects Thanks ; but I don't think it would
give me any particular pleasure to be immortalised
upon those terms. I maintain that
Stiles is a lucky beggar ; but I admit that he
deserves his luck. And, by Jove, here's the
man himself ! '

Oh ! — where ? ' exclaimed Hope ; and
then, catching sight of Jacob, she pushed her
way to his side and shook him by the hand
impulsively.

When did you come to London ? ' she
asked. 'Why have you not been to see us?
I am glad you did not come before I had seen
your wonderful pictures, though. You see,
Mr. Tristram was quite right. I told you that
he predicted you would be famous before
long ' — she had not, however, told him one of
Tristram's reasons for holding that opinion —

and you are certainly famous enough now.
Everybody is talking about you.'

Jacob murmured some inarticulate words
of thanks. He had been living in his old
rooms for more than a week, but had not
called in Bruton Street and did not intend
doing so. Surely Mrs. Herbert must understand
that he could not take so great a
liberty !

But Mrs. Herbert understood him very
imperfectly. ' Have you come here to enjoy
your triumph ? ' she went on.

Jacob smiled. ' Oh no ! ' he answered
quietly ; ' but I have the advantage of being
quite unknown, and I like to listen to the remarks
that people make about me and my
work. Some of them are very — instructive.'

How are you, Stiles ? ' said Bertie, who
had strolled up. ' I'm afraid I can't make
any instructive remarks ; but I am not going
to let my ignorance deter me from telling you
that I think your " Ascot Cup Day " about the
very best thing in the way of a picture that
I ever saw. The other one is better, I am



told ; only, as I wasn't born in the time of
old What's-his-name and never attended one
of Hs chariot-race meetings, I don't feel competent
to give an opinion upon that subject.
I have been at Ascot once or twice in my life,
though, and if I were to stand before that
picture of yours for a few minutes, I should
think I was there now. I believe I could spot
the winner out of your string of horses, too.
The chestnut is the one to back, isn't he ? '

Yes, I think so,' answered Jacob.

He did not seem to be in the least elated
by his success, and Hope was a little provoked
with ]him for taking things so coolly. ' If I
were in your place, I should be half crazy
with pride and delight,' she declared ; ' but
I don't believe you care a bit.'

I am very glad that you think I have
done my work well, Mrs. Herbert,' he replied.

The fact was that when she accosted him
he had been thinking how sweet success must
be to most men and how very little it was
worth to him. He had neither friend nor
lover nor relation to share in it, and the

utmost that it could do for him was to help
him towards independence. Even that had
no longer the charm which it had once possessed
in his eyes.

Presently Dick, who had been talking to
a friend, joined the little group. ' Tell, Jake,
he said, ' so you are a srreat man at last. I
wish you joy with all my heart.'

Bertie and Hope had moved on a few
paces, and the two men were left side by side
in the surging crowd. Jacob raised his eyes
for a moment to Dick's, but found no response
there to his unspoken appeal — only a good-humoured,
and, as he thought, slightly contemptuous
patronage.

Thank you,' he answered briefly ; ' but I
am not a great man and never shall be. I
have known for a long time that I am something
rather above an average artist. All
this doesn't make me think more highly of
myself.'

It helps to bring grist to the mill,
though, I suppose.'

Oh, yes ; it does that. Sir Josiah Cotton,

the great Manchester mill-owner, has bought
both these pictures and is to pay me about
five times their value.' He added, after a
momentary pause : ' I shall not want an allowance
any more now.'

Dick thought this a somewhat ungracious
speech, as indeed it was ; but he believed that
it was Jacob's nature to be ungracious, and
it was not his own nature to take any notice
of such trifles. ' That will be just as you
please, my dear fellow,' he said ; ' only I hope
you won't turn your back upon Farndon in
your prosperity. Your rooms will always be
ready for you, you know, whenever you like
to occupy them.'

Jacob was silent for an instant, looking
down at the ground, as usual. Then — ' I
should like to be at Farndon sometimes,' he
answered. ' Mrs. Herbert has been very kind
to me.'

This, too, might have been considered an
ungracious speech, seeing that great kindness
had been shown to Jacob at Farndon before
ever Mrs. Herbert had been heard of there ;

but Dick was rather pleased than otherwise
by it. ' I am very glad that you and she
got on so well together,' he said. 'I am
afraid she would have found it awfully slow
last winter if you had not been there.'

And Captain Cunningham,' added Jacob,
who decidedly was not in a discreet mood
that day. The moment after he had uttered
these words he would have been glad to recall
them. He was aware that they were
objectionable, not to say impertinent ; yet he
was hardly prepared for the manner in which
they were received.

What do you mean by that ? ' inquired
Dick, quite quietly, but with a perceptible
change of tone.

Was Jacob Stiles a coward ? He had put
the question to himself more than once, and
had never been able to answer it entirely to
his own satisfaction. In a physical sense he
was at least as brave as most men. He would
not think twice, for instance, about mounting
the most vicious brute in England, nor had
he ever hesitated to ride at a fence because

he did not know what was on the other side.
Indeed, he was far more reckless than good
riders generally are. Nevertheless, a short,
sharp challenge, with the hint of a blow
behind it, would cause him certain inward
qualms, together with an outward aspect of
shrinking which he could neither control nor
conceal.

I meant nothing more than what I said'
he replied, rather sullenly.

Dick smiled. ' I expect you did, though,*
remarked he. ' Never mind. Don't do it
again, that's all.' He added, in his usual
good-humoured, deliberate accents : ' The
fact of the matter is that you've got a
good deal of envy and jealousy about you,
Jake. Don't mind my telling you so, do
you?'

Jacob's reply was inaudible. He muttered
something, turned on his heel and slipped
away through the crowd, while Dick, with a
shrug of his shoulders and a smile, strode
after his wife and Cunningham.

It is likely enough that poor Jacob was

jealous and envious. The latter, indeed, lie
could hardly help being, since he had never yet
met the man with whom he would not joyfully
have changed places. Had such an exchange
been practicable, the poorest struggling artist
whose daub had been sent back to him from
Burlington House that spring might have had
Mr. Stiles' niche in the Temple of Fame and
been made welcome to it.

'He is a queer creature,' remarked
Tristram, who redeemed his promise of dining
in Bruton Street a few days after this. ' I
was anxious to make his acquaintance, so I
asked him to dinner with some other young
fellows ; but I could get nothing out of him.
His appearance surprised me. From his
pictures, I was expecting to see a fair young
man, with a good deal of forehead, and a
smiling mouth, when in walks this handsome,
black-browed, saturnine-looking fellow, and
glances at me out of the corners of his eyes,
as if he suspected me of having led him into
an ambush. I shan't invite him a second
time. He never contradicted me once and

lie disagreed with every word that I said —
which was simply unendurable

Yet before the evening was over there
was one point upon which Tristram (if he
had known it) was in complete accord with
Jacob. He had begged that he might not be
called upon to appear at a dinner-party;
so only Bertie Cunningham had been asked
to meet him, and it was not Bertie Cunningham's
privilege to find favour in the eyes
of the great artist. ' That is a dangerous
fellow,' Tristram soliloquised, as he walked
home, with his shaggy head sunk upon his
breast, and his hands thrust deep into the
pockets of his loose overcoat — ' a dangerous
fellow ! Too young, too good-looking, too
devil-may-care. I didn't half like his ways of
going on, and I didn't like her familiarity
with him either. Not that she means any
harm, God bless her ! Who ever does mean
any harm when that kind of thing begins ?
What on earth is her husband about .^ Is he
blind, or indifferent, or a fool, I wonder ? I
wish she had a child ! I wish it were possible

to warn people when they are skating on thin
ice without the certainty of making them go
ahead harder than ever ! ' But presently he
smiled in his beard and raised his head a
little. ' After all, if she sees a Httle more of
that pretty youth, she will find out that he is
not what she is seeking for ; it is her destiny
to be alone — '- Marchers toujours, garrisons
paste'' he muttered, as he let himself into his
own solitary dwelling.

CHAPTER Xxii.

A FEW WORDS FROM LADY CHATTERTON.

If there is no rule without an exception, a
fortiori there can be no exception without
a rule. The fact, therefore, that Captain
Cunningham was repeatedly congratulated
upon his exceptional good fortune in being
able to spend the best part of his time in
London while he was still quartered at
Windsor should be sufficient to show" that his
brother-officers where not equally favoured,
and to clear his battalion from a hasty charge
of ornamental idleness. Not, of course, that
any such accusation would ever be made,
except by quite an ignorant person ; but in
these days there are so many ignorant and
officious persons about — persons who write to
the papers, and ask questions in the House of

Commons?, and get Eoyal Commissions appointed,
and generally harry and distress all
who bear a shred of responsibility, till a poor
overgrown nation is in danger of being driven
to ruin by sheer terror of them — that it seems
best to state, for the benefit of any such persons
into whose hands these pages may fall, that
officers in the Guards are not always permitted
to neglect their duties, and that Captain
Cunningham's leisure was due to a linorerino-

c CO

lameness, of which, perhaps, he made the most.

However, if the ignorant and officious

ones had contented themselves with making

o

ill-natured remarks about the branch of the
service to which he belonged, nobody would
have been very much the worse ; but, unfortunately,
they — or a section of them — took
it into their heads to make remarks of another
and a more personal kind about him, and not
about him alone. When two young people
(or even middle-aged people, for that matter)
walk together, talk together, and sit out
dances together perpetually, their conduct is
pretty sure to call forth comments which are

not likely to err on the side of excessive
charity. It would be too much to say that
Mrs. Herbert had made enemies since her
arrival in London ; but she was too beautiful,
too rich, and too generally popular to escape
detraction, and plenty of ladies were ready
to giggle spitefully and whisper insinuations
behind their fans when they saw her always
closely attended by the same person.

Bertie ought to have known that this
would be so, and possibly he did know it ;
but there must be limits to everybody's self-denial.
He adhered strictly to his resolutions;
he kept his hopeless passion to himself;
twenty times a day he swallowed down indiscreet
words which trembled upon his lips ;
but to renounce Hope's society altogether
was a flight of heroism too lofty for him.
What he would have been very glad to
renounce was the society of Mrs. Pierpoint,
and indeed, by dint of nimble dodging and
doubling, he did contrive to accomplish this
for a considerable time; but eventually, as
was to be expected, that determined lady

caught hin and pinned him down while she
upbraided him in no measured terms.

So much for your promises ! ' she exclaimed,
in conclusion. ' Another time I shall
know better than to believe you.'

!Now I should just like to know what
promise I have broken,' said Bertie, turning
at bay. ' I deny that I have broken anything,
except my leg ; and that I didn't do on
purpose. Is it my fault if Miss Herbert has
gone off to Yorkshire to bury an old woman
who declines to die ? '

You ought to have followed her.'

'Mrs. Pierpoint, you have no sense of
decency. Would you have me thrust myself
into the house of a dying lady whom I have
never even seen and attack her niece with my
importunate offers of marriage under her
very nose ? '

K you were in love with Carry, that
is exactly what you would do, and you
know it.'

But as I am not in love with Carry '

Oh, you choose to say that, but in

reality you care just as much for her as you do
for anybody. If you really cared for Mrs.
Herbert, for instance, you would not go on as
you have been doing for the last few weeks.'

I don't know what you mean,' said Bertie
placidly.

I suppose not ; my meaning is so obscure,
isn't it ? After all, I presume that she
is aware of what she is about. Down in the
country I liked her ; I thought she seemed
to be an innocent, inexperienced kind of
woman. But now I am afraid she is no better
than her neighbours. I don't mean to say
that that is any excuse for you.'

You may say what you like about me,'
returned Bertie ; ' but I won't listen to any
abuse of her. You are quite wrong about
her ; she doesn't know the meaning of the
word flirtation, and she has no more flirted
with me than you have. Of course a man
mustn't venture to make a friend of a
woman. Idiotic things are always said about
them ; we all know that. But I must say I
didn't expect to hear such things from you''

Do you really wish me to understand
that you have no other feeling than friendship
for Mrs. Herbert ? '

Certainly not ; I have never tried to conceal
the truth from you. I love her, and I
loved her before she married, as you know ;
but you are the only person who does know
it. I have never breathed a hint of it to her ;
though it is easy to see that her marriage has
turned out unhappily, just as I told you it
would. Herbert neglects her '

And you try to make up for his neglect
by your disinterested friendship? What an
excellent plan ! If I am idiotic, as you politely
insinuate, I think I know two people,
not to say three, who are at least as much so.
You will all have to suffer for it some day, if
that is any comfort. I have a great mind to
speak to Mrs. Herbert.'

Once upon a time,' observed Bertie, ' Lady
Chatterton, in the overflowing kindness of her
heart, thought it right to warn you that,
unless you dropped your humble servant,
your reputation would suffer. How grateful

Vol. n. P

you were to her! And how promptly you
acted upon her advice ! Do you remember
that little episode ? '

I remember it quite well,' answered Mrs.
Pierpoint, good-humouredly. ' Also I remember
the Exhibition of 1851, and the Duke of
Wellington's funeral. You and Mrs. Herbert,
I should say, can hardly remember the
Prince of Wales' wedding. The cases, you
see, are not quite parallel.'

'You were ready to bite Old Chatty's
head off, all the same,' said Bertie.

This was undeniable ; and Mrs. Pierpoint,
who was a very sensible woman, could not
but admit that any interference on her part
was unlikely to be attended with happy
results. She sighed, and said to herself that
she had better hold her tongue. 'And yet,'
she thought, ' somebody ought to give hera
hint.'

Somebody was going to give Iicr a hint.
Somebody is always ready to undertake these
unpleasant tasks, and on this occasion the
duty was about to be assumed by no less . a

person than Lady Chatterton herself. Lady
Chatterton, in her own estimation, as well as
in that of the majority of her acquaintances,
was a very great person indeed ; and it maybe
added that the distinguished position
Which she occupied in society was due solely
to her personal qualities. Of good family by
birth, but belonging by marriage only to the
lowest rank in the peerage ; she had neither
great wealth, nor commanding talents, nor
even good manners ; so that, to a superficial
observer, it micrht seem as though she should
have had some difficulty in making her house
one of the most exclusive in London, and her
good word eagerly sought after by all who
wished to penetrate into the highest circles.
It is true that what is rare is sure to be prized,
and Lady Chatterton's good words were rare
enough in ail conscience ; but it was to her
self-assertion that lie owed the plenitude of
her power. Courage she must undoubtedly
have had ; for there are very few people in the
world who would dare to utter speeches half
as rude as those which she was accustomed tor

2

fling right and left of her, with a twitch o^f
her nose and a twinkle of her little colourless
eyes. Those sayings of hers were retailed
everywhere as capital jokes, although they
were not particularly smart, and certainly not
witty. Her successes were achieved by
straight, knock-down blows, at which everybody
laughed. The recipients of them often
joined in the laughter, while inwardly wincing
and trembling. It was agreed that Old Chatty
was a privileged person, whose attacks might
be submitted to without loss of self-respect.
Most people hated her ; but as nearly all also
feared her, she was seldom paid back in her
own coin, and very good care was taken not
to call her ' Old Chatty ' when there was any
danger of her sharp ears overhearing the
nickname.

This formidable lady had deigned to bestow
a good deal of notice upon Mrs. Herbert.
She was connected by ancient ties of friendship
with Lady Jane Lefroy, who lived in
abject terror of her, and she had said to her
old friend : ' Bring that niece of yours to seeme.

Isn't she the girl whom you cut out of
her property, and then tried to start in life asa
professional artist ? '

Poor Lady Jane protested indignantly
against this cruel calumny, but did as she was
ordered ; and Lady Chatter ton was so kind as
to say to Hope : ' I think you will do. Of
course you are aware that you are very handsome
; but you do not appear to be conceited,
and you conduct yourself with propriety,
which is more than can be said for most of
the young married Avoient whom I meet nowadays.'
And then she sent her an invitation
to a ball, followed by one to a dinner-party,
at which a member of the Eoyal family was
present.

But these events had occurred early in the
season. At a later period, Lady Chatterton
saw reason to doubt whether the propriety of
Mrs. Herbert's conduct had been maintained ;
and, as she had made herself to some extent
responsible for the young bride, it was necessary
that further inquiries should be instituted,
and displeasure manifested should these prove

unsatisfactory. One morning, therefore, Hope
received the following note, scrawled upon a
rather dirty half-sheet of paper —

'Dear Mrs. Herbert, — If you are doing
nothing particular tomorrow, come to
luncheon here at two o'clock. I have something
to say to you. — Yours truly,

Isabella Chatterton.'

Hope, having no other engagement, accepted
this unceremonious invitation, little
imagining why she had been sent for. Lady
Chatterton lived in a large house in Belgrade
Square ; she had a husband who was nota
very important personage, and sons and
daughters who were not very important either.
Hope found quite a large assemblage of them
in the drawing-room when she entered, together
with sundry other ladies and gentlemen
to whom she was not introduced. Her hostess
offered her a rigid hand, by way of greeting,
and breathed out ' How do you do ? ' in a
fashion peculiar to herself — a sort of wheeze,
accompanied by a glassy stare over the head

of the person addressed. It was probably
designed to check familiarity, and was indeed
adapted to the achievement of that end.
Plain-featured ]\Iiss Chatterton sidled up to
the new-comer, and engaged her in conversation.
It struck Hope that she wore an aii*
of commiseration for which there was no
ostensible cause.

Presently the whole party moved downstairs
to the dining-room, where a good deal
of talk went on which was not very interesting
to Hope, relating, as it did, to the domestic
affairs of people whom she knew only byname.
Judging by the remarks made about
them, the domestic affairs of these unfortunates
had not been managed with conspicuous
success. They either had made, or were
about to make, foolish marriages ; they had
been living far beyond their incomes, and
were upon the verge of a smash ; some of
them, apparently, had got into still worse
scrapes. The rather insignificant-looking and
bodily-dressed old lady at the head of the
table contributed the principal items to this

sum of tittle-tattle. She had a twitch in her
face which increased when she spoke, and
which gave her something of the appearance
of a bull-terrier about to pounce upon a rat.
Upon more than one of the company she did
pounce suddenly and without provocation,
causing them to pull wry faces ; for, to do her
justice, she was not a backbiter in the ordinary
acceptation of the term, but was always
ready to say as much evil of her friends in
their presence as in their absence. Of Hope
she took no notice at all until luncheon was
over, when she stopped her in the hall, saying :
Come in here, please ; I want to speak to
you ; ' and so led the way into a small library
on the ground-floor.

What was coming next Hope had no
notion ; but she could not help being amused
at the coolness of her entertainer, who, after
addressing her as if she had been a refractory
housemaid, merely pointed to a chair, and
proceeded to open and read some letters
which were lying on the table. The old lady
did not hurry herself. She perused her letters

deliberately, sat down and answered one of
them, and then, as if she had suddenly recollected
that there was somebody in the
room, said : 'Oh, Mrs. Herbert, yes. Well,
Mrs. Herbert, I am sorry to say that I have
heard some disagreeable reports about you.*

I am sorry, too,' answered Hope, laughing
a little ; ' but if they are disagreeable, perhaps
you had better not repeat them to me.'

Lady Chatterton glanced at her with a
momentary curiosity. She was not accustomed
to be met in that way. ' But I must repeat
them to you,' she said. ' That was why I told
you to come here to-day, you know.'

Told me to come ? ' echoed Hope.

Yes ; I thought it would be kind to put
you on your guard. You evidently know
nothing of the world, and poor Jane Lefroy
is far too great a fool to be of any use to
you. I daresay you understand what I am
alluding to.'

Not in the least,' answered Hope, staring.

'Oh! Well, I am told, and, indeed, I
myself have noticed, that you are behaving

foolishly with a Captain Cunningham. I
know something of the young man, and what
I know is by no means to his advantage ; so
that you would be wise, in any case, to drop
his acquaintance. Of course, now that you
and he have made yourselves talked about,
you must give him his dismissal at once.
That is, if you wish to keep your place in
society, as I presume that you do.'

Hope rose and drew herself up to her full
height, which was several inches above that
of her accuser. ' You may have meant well,
Lady Chatter ton,' she said, with a slight
tremor in her voice, which she was unable to
control ; ' but I wish you had not thought fit
to speak to me in this way. Captain Cunningham
is an intimate friend of mine and of
my husband's ; and I certainly shall not dream
of dropping his acquaintance because people
have noticed that he and I are often together.
And I do not believe that anyone whose good
opinion is worth having suspects me of — of —
what you hint at.'

Lady Chatterton did not seem to be

offended. ' Oh,' she returned, with a sniff,
and a twitch of her nose, ' it is no use to take
up that tone : you aren't in a position to do it.
I grant you that if you were a great swell you
might set the world at defiance to a certain
extent, though I think that would be an undesirable
and immoral proceeding even then ;
but you see you are not a great swell, and no
one is likely to have mercy upon you — especially
as you are so handsome. In point of
fact, you will have to drop the man or be
dropped yourself; there is no alternative.
You may take my word for that, and I need
hardly tell you that I have no motive but
your own good for saying so.'

The calm impudence of this speech was
too much for Hope's dignity. ' Then, Lady
Chatterton,' said she, ' pray set a good example
to the rest of the world by being the
first to drop me. I am sure I am neither
moral enough nor " swell " enough to be fit
for your society.'

And with that she hastily left the room
and the house, and was in her carriage —

which, luckily, was waiting for her — before
Lady Chatterton had recovered from the
amazement naturally aroused by so much
audacity.

It was all very well to assume an air of
audacity in Lady Chatterton's presence, but
when that stimulus had been removed a reaction
set in, and Hope felt much more
ashamed than angry. In her eyes it was a
terrible and disgraceful thing to be talked
about as, according to that malignant old
woman, people were talking about her ; nor
was conscious innocence quite enough to console
her. She did not know whether to
believe the statement or not, and, in her
anxiety for more trustworthy information she
told the coachman to drive to Eaton Square.
If it is true. Aunt Jane will know of it,' she
thought.

Lady Jane, who was at home and alone,
threw up her hands in dismay .when her
niece somewhat incoherently described the
iseene which had just taken place.

My dear ! ' she exclaimed, in accents of

the most poignant distress, ' how could you
be so insane ! To quarrel with Lady Chatter
ton, of all people in the world ! You have
made an enemy of her for life ; she never
forgives and never forgets.'

Is it my quarrelling with Lady Chatterton
that seems to you the important thing ? '
asked Hope, with a touch of scorn. ' It
doesn't seem so to me. What I want you to
tell me is whether she was speaking the
truth.

Oh, well, perhaps she was ; we can talk
about that presently. I don't think you at
all realise what you have done. Hope, dear
would you — could you — would you very
much mind — going back and begging her
pardon ? *

Hope burst out laughing and then stopped
abruptly. ' I would rather be flayed alive,'
she said.

'Ah, my dear, that is so fooHsh — such
mistaken pride I When we have done wrong,
we ought not to be above acknowledging it.
And you will be flayed alive — at least, it

comes to much the same thing. You little
know what that woman is ! There is nothing
so bad that she will hesitate to say it about
you, after this.'

Let her say anything and everything
that she likes. Don't you understand, Aunt
Jane, that it is a matter of complete indifference
to me what she may say ? '

But I thought you came here because
you were not indifferent to what people
say ? ' observed Lady Jane, with some plausibility.


Hope bit her lips. 'Well,' she resumed,
after a pause, 'do people say that — that — I
am too much with Captain Cunningham ? '

'If you ask me, I am afraid I must answer
that they do. I had even thought of speaking
a word or two to you about it ; only you
are so — so — '

Pig-headed ? '

;Neo — touchy. You must admit that you
are rather touchy, Hope, and rather self-confident
too. You always think that you
know best ; but at your age it is impossible

that you should know best ; and really it is
neither prudent nor becoming to flirt so
openly '

'Do you believe that I ever flirted with
Captain Cunningham, Aunt Jane ? ' interrupted
Hope, her eyes growing large with
indignation.

Lady Jane was a kind-hearted woman,
after her own limited, selfish fashion. She
was fond of her niece and even proud of her,
feeling that she had done credit to the family
by her marriage. ' Xo, dear,' she answered
gently ; ' not if you tell me that you didn't.
But you see, it did look rather like it. I
blame Dick a good deal.'

Dick is not in the least to blame,'
returned Hope quickly. ' He doesn't have
horrid thoughts and suspicions. If anybody
is to be blamed, I suppose I am the one : I
ought to have known that anything is believed
rather than the truth.'

Lady Jane sighed and rubbed her hook-nose.
' Unhappily, that is the case,' she
agreed. ' And since it is so,' lie added,

persuasively, ' don't you think you owe Lady
Chatterton an apology for your rudeness ? '

But as Hope could by no means be brought
to see her duty in this light, what did Lady
Jane do, after dismissing her niece with some
kindly words of caution and comfort, but
order her carriage and drive off post-haste to
Belgrade Square to cast herself at the feet of
her friend and enemy. The reception that
she met with was at once a joy and an
astonishment to her.

My good Jane,' Lady Chatterton said, ' if
Mrs. Herbert were as great a coward as you
are, I should certainly cut her ; but, luckily
for herself, she has plenty of spirit, and I like
her all the better for it. Why you people
put up with my insolence I can't imagine. /
shouldn't if I were in your shoes ; but probably
you get no more than you deserve. Of
course you will understand that I can't continue
to know your niece unless she behaves
herself: there have been far too many of
these scandals of late years. But I am quite
willing to let her have a second trial.'

CHAPTEE XKXJl.

A FEW Words FROM MR. LEFROY.

By a coincidence not more strange than one
of those which so frequently lead two learned
persons, living hundreds of miles apart, to hit
upon the same invention at the same moment,
Dick Herbert was being warned of the danger
that threatened his domestic peace even while
his wife was being similarly admonished.
The slow, steady march of Science brings
those who dog her steps to a point at which
some fresh discovery is inevitable ; the bud,
growing and swelling by imperceptible degrees,
at length bursts suddenly into the
blossom ; and the proof that Captain Cunningham's
alleged flirtation with ]airs. Herbert had
excited genuine scandal is that it ended, not
only by moving a gossiping old woman like
Vol. n. Q

Lady Chatterton to remonstrance, but by causing
so tolerant a philosopher as Mr. Lefroy
to feel that he must either speak to one of
the parties concerned or burst, like the bud.

To the first of these he was sure that it
would be useless as well as undignified to
speak ; to the second it would be painful
and perhaps also productive of ill-feeling — for
there is never any telling in what spirit a
woman will receive rational counsel ; but the
third, though odd in some ways, was at least
a man of the world and would not be likely
to resent a word in season. When, therefore,
Mr. Lefroy chanced upon Dick Herbert,
lunching all by himself in the club to which
they both belonged, it seemed the best of
good policy to sit down beside him and lead
gently up to a delicate subject. The difficulty
was that Herbert was so abominably matter-of-fact
and straightforward. Diplomacy was
thrown away upon him, and even if he did
understand what you were driving at, he
would never admit as much until you had
expressed your meaning in unequivocal language.

Thus, after an hour of fruitless
fencing and hinting, Mr. Lefroy, who by this
time had accompanied his victim upstairs to
the smoking-room, was forced to come to the
point.

You and I are old friends, Herbert,' he
began, ' and I'm sure you won't take offence
at what I am going to say. Don't you think
that young fellow Cunningham is rather too
often at your house ? '

Dick blew a cloud of smoke, watched it
drift upwards, and then answered succinctly,
Xo.'

Well,' rejoined Mr. Lefroy, a little provoked
by this phlegmatic reception of his
attack, 'other people think so, I can tell you.'

Eeally ? '

Yes, really. Now I am not given to interfering
with my neighbours '

H'm ! — I don't know,' interpolated Dick ;
I should have said you were rather inclined
to be fussy and officious. Excuse my blunt -
ness.'

Good-natured Mr. Lefroy burst out laugh

2

ing. ' That isn't fair, Herbert, and you know
it isn't,' he returned. 'Even the Prime
Minister admits that I don't waste the time of
the House. I never speak unless I have a
good reason, and I say my Httle say briefly.'

Well, you have asked me briefly whether
I don't think that Cunningham is too often at
]ny house, and I have answered briefly that I
don't. Doesn't that close the incident, as they
say in the French Chamber ? '

Not quite ; because, as I told you just
now, other people think so, though you may
not.'

I am not going to make myself responsible
for the vain imaginings of other people.'

'The question is whether they are vain.
Of course I have no right to catechise you.'

None whatever.'

Oh, well, if you meet me in that way, I
had better hold my tongue. I thought it
would be friendly to try and open your eyes,
that was all. If you like your wife's character
to be taken away by a lot of old pussy-cats
there's no more to be said.*

Dick's face changed slightly. He turned
his head, and looked full at his interlocutor :

Pussy-cats must be allowed to spit lie
said; ' there's no way of stopping them that I
know of. But if you will tell me the name of
any man who has taken my wife's character
away, I'll undertake to stop his mouth.'

That's absurd,' returned Mr. Lefroy, with
an impatient gesture. • You can't thrash half
the mien of your acquaintance, and if you
did you would only make matters worse.
Qui s excuse s accuse, and the more dust you
kick up about an affair of that sort the dirtier
you are apt to make your own coat.'

Perhaps you are right,' said Dick, placidly.

I'll do nothing then.'

Upon my word, Herbert,' exclaimed Mr.
Lefroy, with a vexed laugh, ' you are the most
extraordinary fellow I ever met ! Hang me
if I understand you ! '

I doubt whether you do,' observed Dick.

• If you think that I am the kind of man to
keep my wife under lock and key, you certainly
don't understand me.'

My dear fellow, I never meant to suggest
such strong measures ; but surely you might
give Cunningham a hint that his room would
be more welcome than his company just at
present. Or you might quietly shunt him,
without saying a word.'

Thanks ; that is excellent advice, no
doubt ; but it wouldn't quite suit me to follow
it. I prefer to be open and above-board. If I
thought that my wife was seeing too much of
Cunningham, I should tell her what I thought.
As I don't happen to think so, I shall not tell
her any such thing. It's as simple a matter as
that, you see.'

Mr. Lefroy shook his head. ' None so blind
as those who won't see,' he thought to himself,
but refrained from giving verbal expression
to this sentiment. Presently Dick, who had
been reclining upon a couple of chairs, swung
his long legs to the ground, assumed a more
upright attitude, and laughed. ' Don't look so
injured, Lefroy,' said he ; ' it's all right. You
meant to do me a good turn ; but it would
be no earthly use for you and me to discuss

questions of this Idol together, because our
point of view isn't the same. You have a
pretty good general opinion of your fellow-creatures
; you think they aren't a bad lot,
taking them all round ; only you wouldn't
trust them much farther than you could see
them. Well, that's one system ; mine is different.
I either trust people entirely or not
at all — indeed, I can't very well help going
upon that plan — and my wife is a person whom
I trust entirely. Therefore it isn't likely that
I should be afraid of her becoming too fond of
another man.'

Mr. Lefroy attempted to explain. Distrust
of his niece was quite the last thing in the
world that he had intended to imply. He
believed in her implicitly ; but at the same
time it was surely no insult to her to suggest
that she was capable of doing imprudent things.
Strangers could not be expected to know that
she was as innocent as a child ; scandal was
more easily stirred up than laid ; it was always
immse to defy the dowagers, &c., &c. Dick
did not wait to hear the end of the harangue,

but pushed his hat to the back of his head,
stuck his umbrella under his arm, as his habit
was, and lounged unceremoniously downstairs
to the entrance of the club, where he stood fora
few minutes, gazing down St. James's Street
and ruminating.

By-and-by Mr. Francis, stepping briskly
past, espied him, and called out: 'Hullo,
Herbert ! what's the latest news of you ? '

Dick descended to the pavement, hooked
his arm into that of his friend, and accompanied
him a few paces along the street.
Francis,' said he, ' I'm a little bit troubled in
my mind.'

'That does not surprise me,' thought Mr.
Francis to himself; but his only articulate
comment was ' Oh ! '

Yes ; Fm not sure that I haven't made
rather an ass of myself.'

Nor am I,' thought Mr. Francis, as before.
Out with it, old man ! 'he said aloud, encouragingly.


At the top of the street Dick came to a
standstill, obstructing the traffic, while he held

Diis friend at arm's leniitli and stared at liii
fixedly. ' On second thoughts,' said he, with
much deliberation, ' I won't come out with it.
Xo ; not yet awhile — even to you. Some day,
perhaps, I'll tell you what I was going to say.
Good-bye.'

And with that he turned, plunged across
Piccadilly, and made straight for home.

Poor old fellow ! ' soliloquised ]Mr. Francis,
as he gazed after Dick's retreating form. • He
mio'ht as well have relieved himself bv making
a full confession, for it's easy enough to guess
his secret. Xot that I could have given him
much consolation. What has happened to
him was morally bound to happen, and he
has no one to thank for it but himself. All
the same, I do hope and trust that that sweet
youth will soon get tired of sirs. Herbert and
throw her over for somebody else. Xothincr
would afford me keener satisfaction than to
see her going about with a pale face and all
the outward signs of a broken heart.' With
which vindictive sentiment Mr. Francis went
his wav.

Dick, meanwhile, was making long strides
towards Bruton Street. As chance would
have it, he reached his house at the very-moment
when Hope, fresh from her interview
with Lady Jane, was passing through the
doorways She was slightly flushed, and the
hand which she laid upon her husband's arm
trembled a little. ' Dick,' she said, as they
ascended the stairs together, ' do you like
London ? '

Hate it ! ' answered Dick, laconically. ' At
least,' he added, thinking that this statement
required some qualification, ' I don't mind it
for a bit, you know. That is, I am quite contented
to be here, so long as you are amusing
yourself.'

I am not amusing myself ! ' cried Hope,
vehemently ; ' I have had more than enough
of London life ; I am utterly sick of the whole
thing ! Dick,' she added persuasively, after a
moment, ' suppose we where to go home at
once ? '

What — back to Farndon ? ' asked Dick,
somewhat startled.

Wliy not, if we are both tired of this ? '
And how about all your engagements ? '
Oh, I don't think we need trouble ourselves
about them. We can't be expected to
keep engagements when we have left London.'
Xo ; only it is usual to give some reason
for disappearing in such a hurry.'

By this time Dick was standing with his
back against the mantelpiece in the back
drawing-room, which had been converted into
a sort of boudoir for ]airs. Herbert's especial
use, and she was sitting in a low chair beside
him. ' Have you any particular reason for
wishing to be off? ' he asked, suddenly looking
her full in the face.

Hope's eyelids dropped under his inquiring
gaze and she felt the colour mounting into
her cheeks. She had fully intended to tell
him all that Lady Chatterton and Lady Jane
had said to her ; but now that it had come to
the point, her courage failed her and she began
to doubt the wisdom of such a course.
She was quite uncertain as to how he would
take the announcement that an unkind construction

had been placed upon her intimacy
with Bertie Cunningham. In many respects
Dick was a riddle to her, and she sometimes
fancied that beneath that nonchalant exterior
there might lurk a capacity for wrath which
it would be decidedly unpleasant to arouse.
That he would blame her she did not believe ;
for he must know that she was incapable of
the conduct attributed to her, and he certainly
did not care enough about her to be jealous ;
but it was likely enough that he would blame
Bertie and that there would be a quarrel
perhaps a scene. And then of course the
next thing would be that Carry would hear
of what had happened ; and so troubles
without end would arise.

It was the rapid passage of these thoughts
through her mind that caused her to blush,
lower her eyes, and finally answer : ' I should
like a little rest after all this gaiety. Isji't
that reason enough ? '

She stole a quick glance at her husband
after making this evasive speech, and she
thought that something like a look of disappointment

came over his face ; but it was
ozone in an instant, and if he detected the
evasion he forbore to remark upon it.

That is reason enough for me,' lie replied
tranquilly. ' I don't know whether it will
quite satisfy your friends ; but perhaps they
may be allowed to remain dissatisfied. When
would you like to go ? '

I could be ready tomorrow,' answered
Hope. The truth was that she was very
anxious to escape without seeing Bertie again.

Dick smiled slightly. ' I think we had
better not make a positive stampede,' he said.
This is Thursday ; suppose we leave on
Monday ? That would give us time to mention
to one or two people that we felt the
want of a change.'

Hope coidd not demur to so reasonable
a proposal ; and presently Dick added : ' It
Avill suit me very Avell to get away a little
sooner than I had expected. I rather want
to run down to Portsmouth and have a look
at the yacht.'

Might I go with you P ' asked Hope,

timidly. ' I have never seen your yacht, you
know, and I think I should enjoy a short
cruise. If I turned out a disgracefully bad
sailor, you could easily put me on shore
somewhere and send me home.'

Oh, you couldn't go on board now,'
answered Dick ; ' she's up on the mud. I
only wanted to see about fitting out, and I
doubt whether she can be ready for sea much
under a month or six weeks. Later on, if you

cared to go to some of the regattas But

I thought you hated yachting.'

Hope well remembered having told him so,
and it struck her that he was not particularly
enchanted at her having changed her mind.
'I haven't had much experience of it,' she
answered, rather coldly ; ' but I certainly
didn't enjoy the little that I had. After all, I
think I prefer dry land.'

Then she rose and left the room, taking
a somewhat heavy heart upstairs with her.
She was beginning to find her husband's good-natured
toleration almost unendurable. She
had no right to expect, and did not expect,

love from him ; but surely this was not the
friendship that he had promised her I His one
wish seemed to be to see as little as possible
ot her. Evidently she was destined to live
her life out in solitude, and now she had been
deprived of one of her few friends ; for she felt
that, after what she had heard that day, there
could be no renewal of the intimacy which she
had found so pleasant. Indeed, it was chiefly
on that account that she was desirous of leaving
London as soon as might be. An explanation
with Bertie must be avoided, if possible ;
since it was not likely that he would believe
in the excuse which her husband had appeared
to find quite satisfactory. Xo doubt it was a
good thing that Dick had not guessed the
truth ; yet she could not help being exasperated
with him for failing to guess it.

But the next morning fortune provided
Mr. and ]ifs. Herbert with a plausible pretext
for withdrawal, and relieved them of the
necessity of concocting a statement which
certainly would not have taken in Lady
Chatterton for one moment.

Hullo ! ' exclaimed Dick, after reading
the first words of a letter which he found upon
the breakfast table ; ' here's poor old Aunt
Anne gone off at last. Carry thinks I had
better go down for the funeral, and proposes
to return with me. I'll bring her back to
Farndon, of course. She won't care about
London if she can't go out, and it wouldn't
be decent for her to show herself at parties
just now — especially if she comes into the
]property.'

Xor Avould it be decent for us,' observed
Hope, seizing one point of the news promptly.

Hardly, perhaps. I wonder whether the
old lady has left everything to Carry.'

Supposing that she has,' Hope asked, a
second point presenting itself to her, ' Avould
Carry have to live in Yorkshire, do you
think ? '

Dick laughed. ' I'm sure I don't kno v,'
he replied ; ' I doubt Avliether she would take
up her abode there all alone. To be sure, che
might find someone to share it with lier. Do
YOU think ' He broke off, and looked

across the table at his-wife-who aDswerecl the
question which he had not asked.

Oh, most likely,' she said. ' The additional
property ought to turn the scale, and
we may expect the wedding to take place as
soon as the days of mourning are at an end.
Poor Captain Cunningham ! '

Dick laughed again, but his laughter was
not very hearty. ' I don't know why you
should call him " poor Captain Cunningham," '
he remarked.

Because he is poor. If he were not poor
there would be no wedding, would there ? '
Then, feeling rather ashamed of this display of
acrimony, she added : ' After all, I daresay
they will be as happy as most people. Why
should they not be ? '

Why not, indeed ? ' returned Dick, getting
up. ' One of them wishes for the marriage
; the other, I suppose, doesn't much
mind it ; so it is all in accordance with custom
and precedent.'

There was an unusual ring of bitterness
in his words ; and Hope, thinking them over,

YoL. II. E

after lie had left the room, wondered what
particular precedent he had had in his mind
when he spoke. Was he accusing her of
having wished to marry him ? Or did he mean
that it was he who had wished to marry her,
and that she was the one who had not ' much
minded ' ? The latter interpretation was the
more agreeable, and the facts of the case supported
it ; but unfortunately there was some
difficulty in reconciling it with Dick's present
rule of conduct, which seemed to be simply to
go his own way and let his wife go hers.

CHAPTEE XXVIII.

BERTIE 3L\KES A GREAT MISTAKE.

When Lady Chatterton heard that Mr. and
Mrs. Herbert had left London, she nodded her
head approvingly, and, meeting Lady Jane
Lefroy at a party that night, congratulated
her in a few well-chosen words upon her
niece's tact and common sense.

Quite the right thing to do,' she was so
obliging as to say. ' There are fifty ways of
getting out of most scrapes ; but the wisest of
all is to make a bolt for it. Not over and
above dignified, perhaps, but very effectual ;
and, quite between ourselves, I can't wonder
that Mrs. Herbert should have taken to her
heels, if she had begun making comparisons
between Captain Cunningham and that lantern-sawed
husband of hers. It was judicious to

K 2

have an excuse, too. Let me see ; they killed
some apocryphal relative, didn't they ? '

Indeed, no!' answered Lady Jane, plucking
up a little courage ; ' not an apocryphal
relative at all, but a genuine aunt by marriage,
whom nobody killed and who died in her bed,
leaving all that she possessed to Dick's sister.
And I trust you will not think, or even say,
that Hope ran away from Captain Cunningham,
because that is very far from the truth.
Li reality, she will be nearer to him at
Farndon than here, as he is quartered at
Windsor.'

Lady Chatterton grinned. 'seven say"
is not so bad,' she remarked ; ' you are developing
a talent for repartee. But you need
not be alarmed ; didn't I tell you that I rather
liked your niece ? I shall say nothing but
good of her, and if she had killed and eaten
]her aunt by marriage it would have been
quite the same thing to me. As for her being-near
Captain Cunningham in the country, that
is her affair and her husband's, not mine.
The law doesn't forbid a man to be drunk and

disorderly in his own house, and the morals of
society are not affected by what takes place
within the limits of your own park-palings.'
And, having given this incidental definition of
social ethics, Lady Chatterton passed on, with
a twitch of her nose and a sniff.

It must be admitted that if Hope's object
was to avoid meeting Bertie Cunningham, she
was scarcely likely to attain that purpose by
a move from Bruton Street to Farndon Court ;
but in truth it was rather the scrutiny of
Lady Chatterton and other such persons that
she longed to be delivered from. She had
been deeply pained and angered by the revelation
wliicli had been made to her, and, for
the time being, felt sickened with the whole
fashionable world. She had enjoyed herself
among these people ; they lead been kind to
her and had made much of her, and she had
believed a large proportion of them to be
really her friends. Yet it seemed that, all the
time, they had been busily circulating the
cruellest rumours about her that can be circulated
about a woman. She was salad to

turn her back upon them and to shake the dust
of their city oft' her feet. Bertie Cunningham
she did not blame, being convinced that he
was as innocent as herself; but, knowing that
their future intercourse must be more or less
constrained, she was not anxious to receive
him, and trusted that his engagements would
prevent him from showing his face at Farndon
before the end of the season, at least.

But it is needless to say that in this expectation
she was disappointed. She had not
been long at home when, looking out from an
upper window one fine afternoon, she descried
Captain Cunningham riding across the park,
and as she watched him passing from sunlight
into shade and again into the sunlight,
it comforted her to reflect that she could not
be called upon to grant him a private interview.
In the presence of a third person he
would hardly, she thought, display a troublesome
curiosity as to the cause of her change
of residence ; and even if he did, her half-mourning
costume and the deeper trappings
and garb of woe worn by Carry would be a

sufficient answer to him. For Carry had returned,
richer by the possession of a commodious
mansion and several thousand acres
of Yorkshire soil, together with a goodly sum
of hard cash in the Three per Cents. ; and
Carry was at that moment seated in the
drawing-room, from the windows of which
apartment she, too, had detected Captain
Cunningham's approach.

Perhaps he has not come to see me after
all,' Hope thought, as she slowly descended
the stairs ; and this impression was confirmed
when she entered the drawing-room and was
confronted by her visitor. He greeted her
with a certain formality ; he looked grave and
seemed ill at ease ; insomuch that she began
to wonder whether any male Lady Chatterton
had been treating him as she herself had been
treated.

Of course, nothing of that kind had taken
place. No man had felt it his duty to warn
Bertie that he was compromising sirs. Herbert
by his behaviour — indeed it would have been
rather late in the dav to address such remonstrances

to that quarter — nor had it occurred
to him, that he was in any way answerable for
the abrupt disappearance from London, of a
lady whom he esteemed as much as he loved.
"What was making him uncomfortable, was
the apparition of what he felt to be his fate,
in the person of the wealthy and sable clad
Carry. He had contrived of late to forget her,
or, at any rate, not to think about her ; but
now here she was, as large as life, and at the
sight of her his heart grew heavy within
him.

Carry had a restless, excited look which
was not unbecoming to her, her cheeks being
a little pinker, and her eyes brighter than
usual. Hope, as she came in, saw her sister-in-law
make a scarcely perceptible movement
of impatience, and understood that she
was de trop ; but there was no help for that.
She sat down ; and presently Bertie, resuming,
as it seemed, an interrupted discussion, observed
: ' I call you uncommonly lucky, all
the same. If any old woman would leave mean
estate and a lot of coin, I shouldn't think

a few weeks of watching by her bedside too
long a price to pay for it.

I don't deny that money is a useful
thing,' said Carry.

Useful ! Why it's indispensable — simply
indispensable ! Xo doubt, you may be rich
without being happy ; but I really can't see
how anybody is to be happy without being
rich.'

Carry opened her hips to speak, but closed
them again, and was silent awhile. ' I had as
much as I required before,' she remarked at
length. 'Aunt Anne's money will do nothing
for me — at least, I suppose not. It's a
pity one can't give away one's superfluity.'

It is indeed ! If such gifts could be
accepted, I should have a word to put in fora
deserving person,' said Bertie, with dismal
jocularity.

And I should ask nothing better than
to act upon your recommendation,' returned
Carry, knowing that she was treading upon
dangerous ground, yet deriving a sort of
painful pleasure from watching the play of

the young man's countenance. She understood
pretty well what was the nature of his
feelings with regard to her ; she knew that her
wealth must be an immense temptation to
him ; there was only one rag of an illusion
which she permitted herself to retain. ' If he
loved me ever so much, he could not marry
me unless I were well off,' was what she
thought.

The utmost that I could spend upon myself
would be two or three thousand a year,'
she continued aloud ; ' enough to pay for keep,
clothing, and four or five horses. For you it
is quite different ; there are so many things
that men want.'

Bertie nodded and sighed. 'Yes; a heap,*
he agreed.

And all of them indispensable ? ' Hope
could not help asking.

She did not wait for his answer, but
hurriedly changed the subject, and, after a
quarter of an hour of desultory conversation,
which was kept up with some difficulty, Bertie
rose to take his leave.

He resolved, as he rode a^vay, that his
visits to Farndon should be few and far between
for the present. It might be, and it
probably was, his ultimate destiny to marry
Miss Herbert ; but to resume the ])seudo-love-
making which had been interrupted six months
before ; to propose, and to become engaged
to the woman whom he did not love, under
the roof of the woman whom he did — no ! he
could not go through all that again. Some
more fitting occasion would doubtless present
itself. Indeed it was his habit to wait for
fitting occasions, and the longer he had to
wait, the better he was pleased. But, as
might have been anticipated, his sense of the
fitness of things was not strong? enough to
keep him away from Farndon Court for more
than a few days ; and, whatever may have
been the attraction that drew him thither, he
soon ceased to resist it. Beimr afraid to
speak much or often to Hope, lest he should
arouse Carry's jealousy, he did not notice that
she avoided him. A certain coldness in her
manner he did notice ; but that, he thought.

was easily to be accounted for. Of course she
must despise him ; of course she could feel
nothing but contempt for the ignoble part
which circumstances forced him to play. He
put on a melancholy face whenever she appeared,
and even in her absence was apt to
be silent and out of spirits.

Thus a week or two passed away, without
any special event to mark them, and the four
persons who spent the greater portion of this
quiet period together would have been as
contented as fine weather and plenty of expedients
for killing time could make them,
had not each and all of them been irritated by
a sense of suspense, and a conviction that
things could not go on in this fashion much
longer. Even Dick was provoked into saying
to his wife : ' I wish to goodness the fellow
would do one thing or the other ! The end
of it will be that I shall have to ask him his
intentions.'

Perhaps Carry will save you the trouble,'
answered Hope, who was quite unable to feel
any sympathy with her sister-in-law in this

matter, although she was sincerely sorry for
her.

Upon my word, I believe it would be the
best thing that she could do,' returned Dick,
laughing. ' He is coming over to dine and
sleep for the dance next Thursday, and if she
doesn't bring him to the point then, I shall
begin to doubt whether she ever will. It
strikes me very forcibly that our younor friend
Cunningham is giving us all a great deal more
bother than he is worth.'

It is hardly his doing,' Hope felt bound
in justice to the absent to urge.

Well, perhaps not,' agreed Dick, pensively
' perhaps not. Very few things appear to
be anybody's doing in particular, when you
come to look into them.'

It certainly was not Hope's doing that the
neighbours had been bidden to a dance at
Farndon Court. That, as well as sundry
picnics and other entertainments of a mild
order which had preceded it, was entirely
due to the initiative of Carry, who may possibly
have thought, as her brother did, that

opportunities were thereby afforded to persons
desirous of ' coming to the point.' It was by
her suggestion also, that a numerous house
party was invited to assemble at this time.
Parliament having now risen, the Leprous,
among others, were persuaded to pay their
niece a flying visit, and Hope derived some
satisfaction from the thought that any lingering
suspicions of her which Lady Jane might
harbour would now probably be dispelled.
It would take a very perverse person to see
Captain Cunningham and Miss Herbert together,
and then accuse the former of flirting
with his hostess.

Nor did Lady Jane fail to justify expectation.
She arrived on the afternoon of the day
appointed for the dance, and during dinner
made use of her eyeglasses to such purpose
that she afterwards took Hope aside and
squeezed her hand, saying, with warm approval
: ' My dear, you have managed it
admirably! — so wise of you to have a few
people whom one knows in the house ! Between
ourselves. I may tell you that your

flight at siicli very short notice incas a little
remarked upon ; but you couldn't make a
better answer than this. It is an old affair,
you know ; it has been dragging on for I
don't know how long, and I really don't think
he can back out of it now. Though to be
sure there is no telling, because in these days
young men don't seem to care what they do,
and no one ever dreams of brinorincr them to
book. But, at all events, everybody must
admit that you have done your best to bring
on a crisis ; and that is the main thing.'

The main thing,' thought Hope, ' is to be
thoroughly selfish.' But it was just as well
not to say this, and as she had done nothing
to promote or impede the crisis alluded to,
she was disposed neither to blame herself nor
to claim credit from others. She was a little
disappointed in Bertie, and she believed that
Carry was on the way towards the commission
of a fatal blunder ; but the turn which events
had taken was beyond her control, and was
most likely the inevitable outcome of equally
inevitable circumstances. After all. as Dick

had averred, very few things were the doing
of anybody in particular.

Upheld by this agreeable sense of irresponsibility,
Hope discharged the less complicated
duty of receiving her guests in a manner
which left nothing to be desired. Her season
in London had not been thrown away
upon her. She had learnt without much
difficulty the knack, which many ladies who
live in the world and for the world never
acquire, of being ready with the right thing
to say at the right moment ; she looked very
beautiful and very distinguished ; and Lady
Jane, tapping Dick emphatically on the arm
with her fan, said : ' A success — a complete
success ! Allow me to congratulate you. I
may be allowed to congratulate myself too ;
for I always maintained that Hope was just
the wife for you.'

It is only fair to admit that you always
did,' answered Dick. ' I don't recollect,
though, that I ever expressed any doubt of it
myself.'

No ; not you. But she doubted a good

deal, I can assure you. However, all's well
that ends well.'

Have we come to the end yet ? ' asked
Dick, and turned away without waiting for a
reply.

The spacious rooms, opening one out of
the other, which formed the ground floor of
Farndon Court, were well adapted for entertaining,
and seemed, indeed, to have been
built for that end. Lighted by an abundance
of wax candles, and decorated with masses of
flowers, which the head gardener had sacrificed
in much bitterness of spirit, they deserved
the encomium passed upon them by an enthusiastic
gentleman who said : ' By Jove,
Mrs. Herbert, with a house like this, you
ought to give a ball every week ! ' The warm,
scented air was stirred by waves of the fitful
breeze which was blowing outside, and which
set the lace curtains swaying ; the plaintive
melody of the waltzes rose and fell in measured
cadence. Hope flitted from room to
room, talking to the dowagers, introducing
shy youths to partnerless maidens, and every

YoL. n. S

now and then pausing to watch the dancers,
among whom Bertie and Carry were conspicuous.
Carry was an admirable waltzer,
Hope noticed. She herself declined to dance
in the earlier part of the evening, despite the
earnest request of Bertie, whose protestations
she cut short rather summarily. It was not
until nearly midnight that she yielded to the
entreaties, or rather commands, of one of his
brother-officers — a smooth-faced, fair-haired
boy, fresh from Eton — who was determined
to have what he wanted and would take no
refusal.

Oh, but you must, you know, Mrs.
Herbert,' he said. ' You've been doing your
duty like a Spartan for the last two hours, and
I'm not going to let you sit out any longer
to please anybody.'

So Hope laughed and allowed him to whirl
her away, and a passing glance Which she
obtained of Bertie's surprised and angry face
was, somehow or other, not displeasing to her.
Why she should have derived gratification
from this disappointment of an old friend

she did not ask herself; nor was she able
to give any good reason for repeating her
refusal when he again approached her and
begged, rather formally, for the next waltz.
It was then considerably later, and during
the interval she had had three different
partners.

But that only shows that I have danced
too much and ought to stop,' she said,
when he reminded her of this circumstance.

'I think it shows that you are ready to
dance with everybody except me,' Bertie
returned. ' And I can't make out why.'

It suddenly struck Hope that she was
giving rather too much importance to a small
matter. ' As you please, then,' she said, and
laid her hand on his shoulder without more
ado. Lady Jane was out of sight ; nobody
was watching her ; and, when all was saici
and done, there could be little harm in taking
a few turns round the room with a man who
was as good as engaged to her sister-in-law.

But perhaps it was not quite so vd^Q to
step through one of the open-windows and

out on to the terrace with liii when the waltz
came to an end. Hope did so, in the first
place because he suggested it and because it
is very disagreeable to say ' No ' to every proposition
that is made to you, and in the second
because she thought that it would be pleasant
to take a peep out of doors on such a fine
night. And very pleasant it certainly was out
there in the cool, dark garden. The breeze
had died away into a dead calm ; there was a
fresh, moist fragrance in the air, and a silvery
haze hung over the grass. The full moon,
sinking in the west, was hidden by a belt of
trees ; but its light fell upon the Avoided hills
opposite, and nothing could be more natural
than to walk on a short distance and look
down upon the lake, which lay in deep shadow
beneath. Hope dropped the cloak which she
had brought out with her on to the balustrade
and, resting her arms upon it, contemplated
the prospect, to which Bertie, who lead seated
himself sideways so as to command a full view
of something which pleased him more, turned
his back.

'Would YOU mind,' he asked, ' telling me
what I have done to affront you ? '

Hope started, and began to wish that she
had remained indoors. She had been expecting
this question any time during the past
three weeks ; but as it had never been put,
she had lately concluded that Captain Cunningham
did not value her friendship so very
highly, and that he had not observed any
diminution of cordiality on her part. The
consequence was that she was taken by surprise,
and could not recollect any of the appropriate
speeches which she had prepared
for this emergency.

You are quite mistaken ; I am not in the
least affronted With you,' was all that she
found to say.

Your voice tells a different story. I wish
you would speak plainly to me. And yet I
am not sure that I do wish it ; it isn't necessary.
Of course I know why you are annoyed
with me ; and you are right, I suppose. I am
going to do a shabby sort of tiling — though I
didn't think it a specially shabby thing until

until — I knew you ; and it's only what
other men do every day and are rather praised
for than not. I can't help it ; that's my sole
excuse.'

I don't pretend to set myself up as a
judge of your actions,' answered Hope, rather
relieved to hind that he was upon the wrong
tack ; ' but I should have thought that nobody
need do wrong knowingly. And if you compare
yourself with others, isn't it the knowledge
of committing a shabby action that
makes all the difference between you and
them ? '

soh, I daresay it is,' replied the young
man despondently. ' I shouldn't consider it
shabby if it were not for — for — well, never
mind. To marry without being in love is nota
shabby action in itself ; you'll allow that.'

Not so long as there is no pretence,
perhaps.'

But there must be pretence ; we discussed
that point once before, if you remember. I'm
sure I don't know what to do I It seems tome
that I have got between the devil and the

deep sea, and whichever way I turn, there is
grief ahead. Decide forme I I would rather
have your decision than my own. Shall I
marry or shall I not ? '

'How can you expect me to answer such
a question ! ' exclaimed Hope. ' I couldn't if
I would, and most certainly I wouldn't if I
could.'

In point of fact you don't care.'

I care very much. We have been great
friends '

But we aren't great friends any longer ? '
interrupted Bertie.

Yes, we are. At all events, we can be
again, and I am sure you have my best wishes.
But you must see how impossible it is that I
should make up your mind for you. There is
a great deal to be said on both sides — more
than I know of, most likely. If you have to
choose between two evils, you must take the
lesser, I suppose.'

Is that all the help that you can give me? '

What would you have me say ? As far
as I can judge, it would be disgraceful in

you to draw back now ; but I don't know
whether it isn't even more disgraceful to marry
for the sake of money alone.'

If Bertie had foreseen that his conduct was
going to be called disgraceful, he would not,
perhaps, have asked Mrs. Herbert to accompany
him to the terrace. Such language was
by no means what he was accustomed to hear,
and in his vexation he forgot himself so far
as to murmur : ' Yet that was what you did
yourself.'

Hope crimsoned all over her face and neck.
That is neither just nor true ! ' she cried.
You have no right to say such things to me,
and I am very sorry that you should have
thought you could.'

She picked up her cloak as she spoke,
and moved away towards the house. But
Bertie sprang off the parapet and caught her
hand.

'For God's sake, don't quarrel with me ! '
he exclaimed ; ' anything rather than that !
I beg your pardon a thousand times over for
having offended you. Of course I ought not

to have said it ; but you don't know how
miserable I am ! Or perhaps you do know —
T think you must know. You can't have
helped seeing how I love you. I loved you
the very first time that I saw you — at that
ball, do you remember ? — and I always shall
love you as long as I live. If only things had
been different I — if only I could have ventured
to tell you long ago '

He did not finish his sentence. Hope had
wrenched her hand away from him, had
retreated a pace, and was looking at him in a
way which fairly struck him dumb with amazement.
Her face had lost every vestige of
colour, and its expression of horror and disgust
could not have been greater if he had been the
vilest wretch alive, instead of being? only an
unhappy young man, crossed in love.

Wliat is the matter ? ' he stammered out,
foolishly.

Hope could not reply. She averted her
head and suddenly threw out Lier hands, as if
she were trying to push some hideous sight
away from her. Then she moved quickly

towards the house. But after t akin or a few
steps, she turned and faced the young man
who was following her.

We must keep up appearances,' she said,
in a hard voice. ' That is the great thing, is
it not? — the only thing that you, and people
like you, care about. I shall have to meet
you sometimes, I suppose ; but I will never
speak to you again, if I can help it. And one
thing more : I don't believe what you told me
just now ; I don't believe that you know what
love is. But nothing that you can ever say
or do will make me forget that you have
taken me for a woman who might be safely
insulted.'

And so she passed through the open Window
into the ball-room, and, maintaining a
self-command which astonished herself, was
presently walking through a set of lancers
with the first person who had chanced to
cross her path.

CHAPTEE XXIX.

Confession.

From the days of St. Paul, and perhaps from
a still earlier period, it has been admitted that,
as regards many of the incidents and accidents
of life, a man must be his own judge and fix
his standard of right and wrong: for himself.
There are persons who feel bound to quench
their thirst only with non-intoxicating beverages,
and there are persons who are content
to refrain from allowing their beverages to
intoxicate them ; some consider it a duty to
fast rigorously throughout Lent, while others
are of opinion that abstinence from pudding
on Friday fully meets the requirements of the
case. It all depends upon the point of view ;
and although it might be dangerous to strain
this principle of toleration too far (lest we

should find ourselves compelled to excuse the
peculiarities of the Peculiar People), it may be
conceded that a married woman who has received
a declaration of love from somebody
who is not her husband need not of necessity
take blame to herself on that account. Indeed,
it seems probable that there are a good
many married ladies who would never dream
of so doing.

But, fortunately or unfortunately, Hope
Herbert did not happen to be one of these.
To her mind, a woman who had passed
through such an experience must be more or
less disgraced by it, just as a man to Avhom a
bribe has been offered cannot recover his self-respect
by a mere refusal of it ; since bribes
are not offered to persons likely to refuse
them. Lie had wished to be, and until
lately had believed herself to be, omni
suspicion major; but now there was no
getting over the fact that this was not the
view universally taken of her. Furious as she
was against Bertie Cunningham, and unsparing
as was her condemnation of him, a careful

process of self-examination obliged lier to find
him guilty with extenuating circumstances.
She saw that her intimacy with him had been
liable to misconception, and, although he
ought never to have misconceived it, it was,
perhaps, hardly wonderful that he should
have done so. Therefore, instead of employing
the few hours left of the night in going to
sleep, she tossed and turned miserably, and
was filled with distress and repentance.

Xow true repentance, as the Church has
always taught, consists of three parts : namely,
contrition, confession, and amendment ; and a
much more comfortable thing it would be for
us poor sinners if it only consisted of the first.
As for Hope, she would have lead no difficulty
in accomplishing the third into the bargain ;
it was the second that she dreaded, and yet
could not see her way to escape. Here again
the point of view is the sign-post which seekers
after the right path have to consult ; and one
may imagine that a conscientious woman,
placed as Hope was, might deem it needless to
take her husband into her confidence. The

objections to siicli a course are manifest, and
the duty of it not so clear but that a very
trifling application of casuistry will suffice to
obscure it. But there was a fatal honesty
and directness in Hope's character which prevented
casuistry from being of any use to her.
She had offended against Dick — innocently,
no doubt, still she had offended — and nothing
short of acknowledo^iuCT as much to him could
set her at peace with herself again. Assuredly
it was not fear of the consequences that ought
to close her lips ; yet she hoped that these
would not be very terrible. He would hardly
be so ungenerous as to blame her ; and, if he
where moderately generous, he might even be
disposed to blame himself a little. He might
have foreseen what was likely to happen ; he
might have even her a word of warning — he,
who knew the world and the wicked ways of
men so much better than she did. But in any
case he must be told.

When she went down to breakfast she was
relieved to hear that Bertie had already fled.

Captain Cunningham asked me to say

good-bye to you for him,' Carry, whose face
wore an anxious and annoyed expression,
informed her. ' He had a telegram early this
morning, teUiug him to return to duty at once.
Not very civil of his Colonel, I think, considering
that the man was here last night
and must have known that we didn't want our
visitors to be hustled off before breakfast.'

Hope felt some doubt as to whether the
poor Colonel had been guilty of the incivility
attributed to him, but was very willing to
pardon him if he had. The majority of her
guests, including lier uncle and aunt, were
leaving her that day, and a private interview
with Dick was out of the question before the
afternoon. She forced herself to talk, and
was glad to find that she could do so with
tolerable ease.

'You are looking very pale, my dear,'
Lady Jane said. ' I am afraid you over-tired
yourself last night ; but you have the comfort
of knowing that it was a great success.' And
then, in an undertone : • Do you think that
wretched little man has sone off without coins

his duty, after all? Between you and me, I
know he didn't have a telegram this morning,
because the butler told my maid that none
had arrived for anybody.'

'Perhaps Carry has refused him,' said
Hope, allowing herself that little bit of duplicity
as a set-off against the candour which she
was about to display by-and-by.

But Lady Jane's only answer to so absurd
an hypothesis was a snort of derision.

That necessity for keeping up appearances
which Hope had sneered at the night before,
and which all of us find a little irksome at
times, ought not, after all, to be counted
amomx the burdens of existence, since it forces
us not only to conceal our troubles but to put
them out of our minds. Hope was busy all
the morning making civil speeches and saying
good-bye to her visitors, and so had no time
either to fret over what lead happened in
the past or to grow alarmed as to what was
about to happen in the immediate future. By
luncheon time the house was almost empty,
and she was then able to see the approach

of her opportunity. In the afternoon Dick was
to drive a bachelor friend of his down to the
station : her obvious pLan would be to intercept
him at the confines of the park on his
return, and make her confession while he
walked back with her to the house. Carry,
who never requested her company and doubtless
never desired it, would not be likely to
throw obstacles in the way of this scheme.

Everybody is agreed that when a tooth
has to be drawn the sooner it comes out the
better : but it is only exceptionally strong-minded
persons who can contrive to be cheerful
during the hours preceding the operation,
and it must be confessed that when Hope, looking
at her watch, found that it was already
half-past four, and that she must start at once
if she wished to make sure of catching her
husband at a given point, her heart began to
sink within her. She had never quite succeeded
in fathoming the depths of Dick's
nature. He himself would probably have
declared that there were none to fathom, and
certainly it was not his habit to conceal either

Vol. U. T

this tastes or his opinions ; but everyone must
Ive a temper somewhere or other about
him, and the less he shows it the more stormy
it is apt to be when aroused. So far as Hope
was concerned Dick's temper was an unknown
quantity. She had not once seen him
angry ; but then since their marriage there
really had been nothing to make him so.
What she half knew and half surmised was
that his notions of duty were of the strictest
order, and that he was by no means given to
recognising degrees of right and wrong. She
felt almost sure that he would either absolve
her altogether or condemn her utterly, and
she was afraid that if he did condemn her, he
might do so with a violence which she would
not be able readily to pardon. In short, she
perceived that there was danger ahead, and
longed, as everyone must at such times, to be
either in the thick of it or out of it ; so that,
as she made her way across the park, lier
courage required constant turns of the screw
to keep it up to the sticking-point.

The day had been hot and airless, but

now a light wind had sprung up, setting the
leaves whispering softly overhead, as Hope
skirted the woods. The rabbits scuttled
away on her approach, but not very fast,
for they were quite well aware that she did
not carry a gun ; bright-eyed squirrels peered
down at her from the boughs, and in the cool
depths of the thickets the birds were calling
to one another. To all these sights and
sounds, which ordinarily pleased her, she
paid little heed, but hastened on, as thou-li
by increasing her pace she could bring Dick
back from the station any sooner or cause
the bad quarter of an hour that was coming
to begin a second before its appointed time.
Naturally enough, the only consequence of
her hurry was that she made herself uncomfortably
hot and reached the wicket gate, for
which she was bound, a good deal earlier
than was necessary. She leaned over it,
looking down the white, dusty high road,
and listening for the sound of wheels ; and
after a while, as the silence remained unbroken,
she began, somewhat inconsistently

T 2

to think what a blessed reprieve it would be
if Dick had driven round by the gamekeeper's
cottage, as he sometimes did, and had thus
given her a walk for nothing.

But there was as yet no ground for any
such conjecture, for her watch told her that
it still wanted several minutes to the time at
which she had calculated that her husband
would pass the spot where she was standing,
and the result proved the accuracy of her
forecast. Punctually to the moment she
heard the quick beat of a fast-trotting horse's
hoofs upon the road, and presently a high
dog-cart hove in sight, in which Dick was
seated aloft, smoking a cigar and licking at
the hedgerows with his whip as lie bowled
along. She threw the gate open and stepped
out as soon as he Alas opposite to her, whereupon
he pulled up with a jerk and called out :
Oh, it's you, is it ? Shall I give you a lift ? '

No, thank you,' answered Hope, trying,
without conspicuous success, to look as if
nothing was the matter ; ' but if you are not
too lazy you might walk home with me.'

Dick immediately handed the reins to the
groom and descended with much deliberation.
He had a few words to say to the man, and
while he was saying them Hope scanned his
face anxiously. How would he take it ?
Was he in a good humour ? But the futility
of such queries was obvious. Dick's face
looked exactly as it always looked, and as for
being in a good humour, was he not always
in a good humour P When he joined her and
remarked, with his customary equanimity :
I've just had a telegram from Newmarket to
say that Sarsaparilla has broken down — split
her pastern at exercise this morning,' she felt
that she could not at once plunge into the
midst of her avowal.

Sarsaparilla was the most valuable of
Dick's small string of thoroughbreds, and as
great things had been expected of the mare
it was necessary to express some condolence.
So they talked a little of racing matters,
which led them to speak of Jacob Stiles and
of pictures and various other topics, and it
seemed as if the conversation could by no

possibility be brought round to the subject
of Captain Cunningham and his delinquencies.
Hope was nervous and talked very much at
random ; but Dick, lounging along by her
side, with his hands in his pockets, did not
seem to notice her embarrassment, and was
altogether so easy and unsuspicious that she
felt her task becoming more difficult every
minute. Several times she tried to speak,
but the words died away in her throat and
her heart thumped against her ribs, until at
last she told herself that this would never do,
and that she must shiver on the brink no
longer. About a hundred yards ahead of
them a spreading beech tree threw its shade
across the grass. ' When we get to that
tree,' she thought to herself, ' I will tell him.'
And as soon as they had reached the spot,
she stopped short, interrupting him in the
middle of a sentence.

Dick,' she said, in a voice which sounded
to her very queer and unlike her own, ' I
went to meet you on purpose : I have something
to say to you.'

So I rather imagined,' observed Dick,
placidly.

Why ? What do you mean ? ' she asked,
turning upon him with a quick look of alarm.

Only that you don't as a rule ask me to
take a walk with you, you know. Besides,
I thought from your face when you stopped
me, that there was something in the wind.'

There is something — something dreadful!
I don't know how to tell 3-ou about it.' She
paused, and then went on appealingly : ' Dick,
we agreed, didn't we, that we would always
be honest with one another ? — that we would
have no concealments ? '

Dick nodded, his face becoming a shade
graver. ' Well ? ' he said.

Well, that is why I thought I must let
you know — though it would have been so
much easier to say nothing, and I suppose
you would never have found out.' Here she
came to a second standstill, thinking that
perhaps he would give her a word of encouragement,
but he did not open his hips,
and she had to blunder on as best she could.

It was last night — at the dance — I went out
on to the terrace with Captain Cunningham,
and — and '

At this point Hope broke down altogether
and suddenly burst into tears. It was in no
such fashion that she had intended to tell her
tale. She had meant to be calm and collected,
to relate without much comment exactly
what had occurred, and to submit with meekness
but dignity to any reproaches that Dick
might think himself justified in addressing to
her ; but instead of that, she was behaving
like a silly hysterical school-girl, and was
speaking quite unintelligibly into the bargain.
However, there was nothing for it but to
proceed.

I went out on to the terrace with him,'
she repeated between her sobs, ' and he said —
he said '

That he loved you ? ' suggested Dick, ina
quiet, level voice.

Hope nodded over her pocket-handkerchief.
' I couldn't help it,' she murmured ; ' I
had not the least idea of what he was going

to say ; and — and I told him that I-u'ould
never speak to him again.'

She could hardly distinguish her husband's
features through her tears ; but presently he
broke the silence, and this voice certainly
sounded rather cold. ' Xever mind,' he said ;
don't distress yourself. Sit down here, and
you will be better in a few minutes.'

Hope did as she was told. She seated
herself on the short, dry grass beneath the
beech tree and, leaning back against the
trunk, tried to swallow down the hung which
would keep rising in her throat, while Dick,
his hands still in his pockets, moved away a
few yards, and stood with his back turned
towards her and his head sightly bent. It
was difficult to guess from his attitude in
what way the news had affected him, or
whether it had affected him at all. After
what seemed a lone time he slowly returned,
and Hope looking up into his face saw that
it was very grave.

Are you angry with me, Dick ? ' she
asked, timidly.

No,' lie answered, ' I am not angry with
you ; I should be utterly unreasonable if I
were. You have done all that you could
possibly do. You have sent Cunningham
away and you have told me the truth at once.
The rest is no fault of yours.'

I don't know ; I am afraid it Alas my
fault a little. I ought to have known what
was coming, for Aunt Jane warned me and so
did Lady Chatterton ; only I would not believe
them.'

As far as that goes, I ought to have
known, too,' observed Dick ; ' but what is
done can't be undone, and there's no use
in looking back over one's shoulder. The

o

future is the only thing that we can control.'


He spoke quietly and without the slightest
appearance of emotion ; but somehow Hope
was not quite reassured. ' You — you — won't
do anything to him, will you, Dick?' she
hazarded.

Horsewhip him, do you mean ? Oh,
dear, no ; wdiat would be the i^ood ? For

Carry's sake, as well as for yours, I shall take
no notice.'

Por Carry's sake I ' echoed Hope. ' But
surely you don't think that there can be anything
between her and Captain Cunningham
now ! '

Dick smiled and looked apologetic : ' Well,
you see, I've reached middle acre, or something
very near it,' he said.

What then ? ' asked Hope, being unable
to perceive the relevance of this observation.

Only that at my time of life I can't help
knowing how easily men get over these things.
He will return to Carry — and her fortune,
you may depend upon it ; and whenever he
does return she will accept him gratefully.
It isn't exactly what you could call desirable ;
but it can't be helped. People must be
allowed to make their own lives for themselves.'


This philosophic acquiescence in the frailties
of human nature did not please Hope,
who rejoined, somewhat sharply : ' I don't see
how you can be so sure. Most likely you

have never been in love in the whole course
of your life.'

Oh yes, I have — once,' replied Dick,
after a moment of hesitation.

And you got over it very easily, no
doubt.'

Well, I don't look broken-hearted, do I ? '

You certainly do not. But everybody is
not so sensible.'

'You mean insensible, perhaps? But I
wasn't talking about everybody ; I was talking
about Cunningham. Nevertheless, a time
does come — it may be long or it may be quick
in coming — when everybody ceases to wish
for Avhat can't be had. Believe me, you will
find it so. This isn't a subject which you and
I can very Avell discuss together now ; but
perhaps some day it may be different. Meanwhile,
least said soonest mended.'

Hope knitted her brows and stared at him.
You speak as if I — as if I — cared for Captain
Cunningham ! ' she exclaimed.

If you did, I don't think you would have
any reason to be ashamed of it. You have

never deceived me. From the very first you
told me distinctly that you had no love forme
; and if afterwards you met somebody
whom you could love, it was — well, a piece
of bad luck, that's all.'

But I don't love him ; I hate him ! ' cried
Hope, vehemently. ' What right have you to
bring such accusations against me ? ' And
then, as Dick made no reply : ' Don't you
believe me ? ' she exclaimed.

I think you have behaved as honourably
as it was possible to behave,' answered Dick ;
and I believe that you speak with perfect
sincerity.'

'Xo, you don't,' she returned, deeply
wounded ; ' you don't believe me in the least !
And after all, how little it signifies ! So long
as I behave what you call honourably — by
which I suppose you mean, so long as I don't
create a public scandal — you will be satisfied.
Make your mind easy, then ; I shall never
disgrace you. But I wish — oh, I icisJi I had
never married you ! '

Dick received this outburst as phlegmatically

as he had received her previous display
of agitation. ' I am afraid it has been a sad
mistake,' he agreed. 'All that I can say is
that I honestly thought I was consulting your
happiness, as well as my own, at the time ;
and even now — however, we won't anticipate.
The best plan is to take short views of life,
go on from day to days and do one's duty.
In the lons^ run, crooked things become
straight.'

One's duty ! ' repeated Hope, scornfully ;
that is easily said. What are your duties, I
wonder ? — and how do you do them ? '

I'm afraid I often neglect them,' answered
Dick, humbly enough.

'And sometimes mistake them, perhaps.'

Very likely. But I think I can see my
duty pretty clearly, so far as you are concerned.
And I should like just to thank you for having
treated me so fairly. It is no more than I
should have expected of you ; but for all that,
I know very well that you have done what
nine women out of ten would have shirked.
You need not have said that about not disgracing

me ; I trust you as implicitly' as I trust
myself.'

You may certainly trust me,' answered
Hope, coldly.

They lead resumed their walk long before
this and were now at the entrance of the
house, where they parted. Hope was not in
the least appeased by the formal tribute to
her honourable conduct expressed in her
husband's last speech. He had been pleased
to say that he trusted her ; but he had doubted
her word ; and what was worse was that he
had not cared at all whether she was speaking
the truth or not. He had put aside the
question of her loving or not loving Captain
Cunningham as though it had been of quite
secondary importance. It was ' bad luck ' for
her, he had said ; but he evidently did not
look upon it as being bad luck for himself.
He was just like Lady Jane and all the rest
of them. ' Do what you please, only don't
make a scandal ' was the beginning and end
of their code. As she thought, with burnings
anger, of the scene which she had just passed

through and realised how out of place her
agitation had been, she almost found it in her
heart to wish that she did love Bertie Cunningham,
even though she should never see
or speak to him again. ' Eight or wrong, it
would be better than nothing. What is life
worth if one is to care for nobody and be
cared for by nobody ? ' she exclaimed.

And the luxurious fittings of her boudoir,
the wide-stretching gardens that could be
seen through the open windows, the park and
the woods beyond, and all the evidences of
wealth and refinement that were about her
could give no answer to that pertinent
question.

CHAPTEE XXX.

JACOB GOES OUT FOR A RIDE.

One hot morning in August Jacob Stiles,
feeling weary and exhausted, laid down his
brushes and maul stick and went to the window
for a mouthful of fresh air. He drew
into his lungs one or two long breaths of that
smoke-charged compound which goes by the
name of air in London, and which the death-rate
of that city shows to be extremely wholesome,
but which no stretch of courtesy can
call fresh. It failed to refresh Jacob, who
returned into the room, threw a cloth over
the canvas upon which he had been at work
and said to himself that it was high time to
be off.

There was nothing to prevent him from
starting north, south, east, or west, as soon

Vol. n. U

as he pleased ; for his successful season had
brought him ample funds, and he had nobody's
convenience to consult save his own ; but,
perhaps because he was possessed of such
absolute freedom, he felt no inclination to
make use of it ; and after meditating for a
short time he made up his mind to go quietly-down
to Farndon as usual. At Farndon, at
any rate, he would find a friend, which was
more than he could say with certainty of any
other spot on the earth's surface. In becoming
famous as an artist he had become no
better known as an individual, and the few
advances which had been made to him he had
discouraged ; for he recognised his destiny
and had long ago said to himself, like the
poet : ' Thou hast been, art, shalt be, alone.'
But this did not prevent him from longing for
the sight of Hope's beautiful, kind face and
the sound of her soft voice ; so he packed up
his belongings and took his ticket for Windsor
that same evening.

It had long been his habit to come and
go in this way, giving no notice of his movements.

His rooms were always ready for
him at Farndon, and often he would be for
days in the house before the master of it
chanced to come across him. Upon the
present occasion he drove into the stable-yard,
as his custom was, and his arrival was
noticed only by a few of the servants. There
were no visitors just now the man who
brought him his dinner informed him. There
had been a large party ; but it had dispersed
after the dance which had taken place two
nights before, and now only the family was at
home. There was, therefore, no reason why
Jacob should not venture down to the
drawing-room after dinner and shake hands
with ]airs. Herbert ; but he refrained from
doing so, preferring to wait for a chance
encounter. The next morning, however,
hearing that Mr. Herbert was alone in his
study, he betook himself thither, carrying
with him a sporting paper which he had
just received.

Dick was poring over a large map, which
he rolled up somewhat hastily as Jacob

u 2

entered. 'Oh, is that you, Jake?' he said.
You've had enough of London, I suppose.
Sit down and smoke a cigar.'

There was a slight alteration in his face
and in the ring of his voice which at once
made it clear to Jacob's quick perceptions
that something had happened to annoy him ;
but Jacob would as soon have thought of
slapping the President of the Eoyal Academy
on the back as of asking what that something
might be. Besides the paper which he held
in his hand afforded a sufficient explanation.

I am sorry to see,' he said, ' that Sarsaparilla
has gone wrong.'

Dick shrugged his shoulders. ' I hope
you haven't backed her for the Leger.'

I never back horses,' answered Jacob,
thinking to himself, ' As if he didn't know
that ! '

Presently he resumed : ' It is an unlucky
accident ; but it isn't irreparable, you know.
The mare will come again, I have no doubt.'

I don't care two straws whether she does
or not,' returned Dick, with unwonted roughness.

Then, seeing the other's look of astonishment,
he added, ' The fact is that my
horses will be brought to the hammer before
long. I am thinking of going over to
America to shoot, and if I carry out my present
plan, I shall be away at least a year.'

Before Dick's marriage this sudden determination
would have been only in accordance
with his habits, and would have called for no
remark; but under the changed circumstances
it sounded not a Httle startling, and Jacob, for
all his discretion, could not help saying : ' Ana
Mrs. Herbert ? Does she go with you ? '

Of course not,' answered Dick, tranquilly.
Camping out in the Eocky Mountains is
not exactly the life for a lady — especially in
winter.'

Jacob said nothing ; but his thoughts were
so plainly written on his face that Dick was
pleased to reply to them. ' No,' he said ;
Mrs. Herbert and I have not quarrelled, and
I take it that she will have no objection at all
to my amusing myself in my own way. She
was quite aware before our marriage that I

am an incurable rolling stone. However, as I
have made no arrangements as yet, you had
better consider this a confidential communication.'


Jacob's feelings towards his benefactor
had for many years been of a curiously mixed
character, being composed in something like
equal parts of admiration, fear, gratitude, and
resentment. He believed that he understood
perfectly the existing state of the relations
between Dick and his wife, and he believed,
furthermore, that he knew what those relations
might easily become. The question was
whether, for both their sakes, he ought not
to speak a word in season, at the risk of being
roundly snubbed. He was silent for a few
minutes, and it was not without a considerable
effort that he brought himself at length to say :
Do you think it is quite fair on Mrs. Herbert
to leave her like this for a year or more ? '

Dick was not offended ; only a good deal
surprised. ' Evidently you don't think so,' he
remarked. 'I haven't heard such a direct
expression of opinion from you for a very longtime,

Jake. Now, you mustn't mind my saying
that you lead better not meddle with what
doesn't concern you. Every man is the best
judge of his own business ; and I can assure
you, if you don't know it akeady, that two
people may be excellent friends and yet not
miss one another much when they are parted.'

That was not quite what I meant,' returned
Jacob, hesitatingly.

Then what in the world did you mean ? '

Only that — it isn't very easy to express
it, and as you say it is no concern of
mine '

Go on, man,' broke in Dick, impatiently.
Either speak out or hold your tongue,
whichever you please.'

Jacob flushed slightly. ' I wanted to warn
you, or rather to remind you,' he said, ' that
there are dangers to which any woman, however
good she may be, must be exposed when
she is so ostentatiously neglected.'

I am not at all surprised at your saying
so,' observed Dick, quietly. ' No doubt, your
notion of common sense is to trust people

SO long as they are in sight. Well, that
doesn't happen to be my notion. I consider
that everybody has a prima facie right to be
trusted, and I do trust everybody, in sight and
out of sight, until they play me false.'

And never afterwards.'

And never afterwards,' Dick agreed.
He was simply stating a fact, and had neither
intention nor consciousness of wounding his
monitor ; but Jacob, always on the look-out
for allusions to his own bygone offence,
winced as if he felt again on his shoulders the
lash of the horsewhip which had punished it.

Yes ; that is your plan ! ' he exclaimed
bitterly, ' and it is as senseless as it is cruel.
Because a man has done wrong once, can he
never do right again ? Have you yourself
never done wrong? Oh, I know what you
would say ; you have never done anything
dishonourable or base. It is neither base
nor dishonourable to go away for your own
enjoyment and leave your wife exposed to
temptations which you, perhaps, wouldn't be
able to resist in her place. No ; at the worst.

that is only thoughtless — only a little over-generous
and confident.'

We'll drop this, Jake, if you please,' said
Dick, with some sternness. ' You may abuse
me as much as you like ; but I can't allow you
to speak as if JMi's. Herbert were in any
danger from the kind of temptation that you
hint at.'

Jacob turned away without a word, and
made for the door ; but when his hand was on
the lock Dick called after him, in a somewhat
gentler voice : ' Don't be offended, Jake ; Ism
sure your intentions are good, and I'm obliged
to you for saying what you think honestly.
But the truth is that you can't quite understand
the nature of the case.'

I am not offended — if that matters,'
answered Jacob, as he left the room. But he
was very deeply offended, and Dick's last
words had not helped to remove the cause of
offence. He could not understand the nature
of the case, forsooth ! In other words,
a thief and a forger was incapable of entering
into the feelings of honourable people.

Nevertheless, the case was not such a hard
one to understand. A loveless marriage, a
careless husband, a lover who comes upon the
scene too late — was it too much for anyone to
declare that there were elements of danger in
such a situation as that ? Jacob had watched
Hope and Cunningham together ; he was convinced
that the man loved her and feared that
knowingly or unknowingly — she returned
his love. Hope was to him the type of all that
is purest and loveliest in woman, and the
thought of what might so easily befall her was
a torture to him. He cursed Dick's blindness
and selfishness ; yet all the time he could not
help admitting that there was something noble
in the attitude of this blind and selfish man,
something ignoble in his own suspicions.
Was it not both shameful and inconsistent to
assume that the lady whom he worshipped
was no more proof against temptation than
others of her sex? Many an idol has feet
of clay ; but at least those who prostrate
themselves before it should be unable to
discern them.

Jacob wandered feverishly up and down
his studio until at length, feeling that he could
neither work nor sit still, he went down to the
stables, saddled a horse for himself and rode
out. He had purposely chosen an ill-tempered,
unmanageable beast, who began to give him
trouble immediately ; but he did not vent his
irritation upon his mount, as many men would
have done. In the saddle he was always cool,
patient, and conscious of his power. The
animal could not unseat him and must end
by obeying him. He knew that, and derived
some solace from a sensation which he never
experienced at any other time.

He cantered down the long shooting-alleys
of Windsor Forest, having enough to do to
keep the powerful mare that he was riding
under control, and beincr thus relieved from
the pressure of painful thoughts. When he
emerged into the Great Park, a herd of fallow-deer,
darting out suddenly from beneath the
shade of a tree, startled the mare, who plunged
violently and then broke clean away. Jacob
did not mind this in the least. She was out

of his hand ; but he knew that he had grass
before him the whole way to Windsor, and if
it amused her to run away, she might run
and welcome. Neither he nor she would be
any the worse for it. So for a couple of miles
or more he was borne at racing speed across
the undulating expanse of park-land, managing
to steer clear of the oaks and hawthorns,
but charging through the patches of bracken
and up the steepest slopes, until the mare had
had enough of it and willingly allowed herself
to be pulled into a walk. It was a blazing
summer day, and both she and her rider were
very hot and short of breath by this time.
Both of them, too, had been reduced to a
frame of mind much calmer than that in which
they had started. Jacob took off his hat,
passed his handkerchief over his forehead and
sighed. ' After all,' he muttered, ' something
like this was inevitable. I always knew that ;
and so, I daresay, did she. Where in the
world did I find the pluck to speak to Herbert
as I did just now? I'm glad I did speak;
though of course it was no use.'

He pulled up under the shade of a tree tolet
the mare get her wmd before he turned
her head homewards, and while he was sitting
there, lost in thought, a voice suddenly hailed
him : ' Hi ! Stiles, is that you ? '

Jacob, glancing over his shoulder, descried
another horseman approaching across
the turf, and a subdued exclamation of annoyance
escaped him when he recognised Captain
Cunningham. He did not like Captain
Cunningham and would gladly have avoided
speaking to him, had that been practicable.

Bertie, drawing nearer, greeted him
cheerily with : ' How are you. Stiles ? Glad
to see you in these parts again. Are you on
your way home? If you are, perhaps you
wouldn't mind giving this note to Mrs.
Herbert for me.'

Jacob threw a sidelong, distrustful glance
at him. He had no fancy for the part of a
go-between and was very much inclined to
tell Captain Cunningham that he might post
his letter or deliver it himself.

Not if it is any bother to you,' said

Bertie, noticing the other's hesitation. ' I
thought it would save me the ride, that was
all

Very well,' responded Jacob, curtly,
holding out his hand for the note, which, ashe
had now had time to reflect, might only bean
answer to an invitation after all.

He gathered up his reins and was already
moving when Bertie checked him by making
some remark about his horse, and, after conversing
for a few minutes with that slight air
of condescension which affronted Jacob more
than downright rudeness, asked carelessly :
Everybody all right at Farndon ? Mrs.
Herbert not too tired after the ball, I hope ? '

It struck Jacob that the carelessness of the
inquiry was a little overdone, and that there
was a suggestion of disquietude underlying it.
I only returned last night,' he answered,
and I haven't seen Mrs. Herbert yet.'

Oh ! ' said Bertie ; and this time his
voice had a distinct intonation of disappointment.


Jacob nodded, touched the mare with his

heel and cantered away. ' No concern of
mine,' he kept repeating to himself, as he
went ; ' whatever happens can be no concern
of mine — which seems odd, considering that
I would die for her. What a fool I must be !
Wliy shouldn't I hive for myself, like other
people ? The answer to that question isn't
far to seek : because I despise myself and
adore her. Adore her I — I wonder what
Herbert would say if he heard that. I wonder
what he would think I meant by it —
I wonder what I do mean by it. I'm sure
I can't tell, and Ism even more sure that it
doesn't signify. My thoughts are my own,
and will continue to be kept to myself, I take
it, as they always have been.'

Such as they were, his thoughts were no
great comfort to him. The unwonted state of
excitement into which he had been thrown
some hours earlier had passed away and had
left him dull and depressed. When he
reached the stables, the stud-groom, who
never missed an opportunity of falling foul of
him, remarked sarcastically that he did hope

that the next time Mr. Stiles wanted to ride a
horse to a standstill he would be so very-kind
as not to choose a three hundred-guinea
animal.

The mare is not worth a hundred
guineas, and I have not ridden her to a standstill,'
returned Jacob, as he walked away.

He ought to have been accustomed by
this time to such small manifestations of spite ;
but it was his misfortune that he never did
become accustomed to them, and his thin
skin was pierced a dozen times a day by the
minutest of pin-pricks. However, seated in a
low wicker chair on the lawn was one who
never inflicted wounds, but delighted rather in
healing them. He had caught sight of her ashe
approached the house, and he made his
way towards her now with something of a hurt
child's longing to be comforted.

But it is needless to say that no such desire
was apparent in his manner, which was as
formal as usual. He lifted his hat, saying :
How do you do, Mrs. Herbert ? ' and Hope
started up with a little cry of pleasure.

Oh I how glad I am that you have come !
I was just thinking about you and wondering
whether you would be down soon. I am
going to begin painting in real earnest now,
and I want you to help me, if you will. Go
and get a chair for yourself, and tell me all
about your experiences in London.'

Jacob obeyed her with a kind of sober
triumph. She was really glad to see him
again then. To be sure she had mentioned
a specific reason for her gladness ; but what of
that? It was something to be welcome, if
only as an instructor, and it was something to
be able to put her into good spirits. Her
face was bright and smiling now, whereas, on
approaching her, he had been struck by the
weary dejection expressed in her attitude.
He sat down beside her, and gave himself upto
the enjoyment of Hastening to her voice and
answering her questions.

What does it feel like to be a great man ? '
she asked. ' I suppose you don't care a bit ;
but if I were in your place I should hardly
know whether I was standing upon my head

Vol. n. X

or my heels. Doesn't it make you at all
proud to think that your name has been in
the mouth of every educated person in the
three kingdoms this summer ? '

Not very,' answered Jacob, smiling. '• You
see, I might have achieved that much by
murdering a man in a railway-carriage or
trying to cross the Channel in a balloon.'

'Well, at least you will allow that it is
pleasant to be praised by all the best judges
of art.'

Yes ; that is pleasant, no doubt — if it is
the case that I am praised by all the best
judges. But,' he added, after a short pause,
naturally such things don't mean quite as
much to me as they would to most men. I
have neither kith nor kin nor friends, and
one soon gets tired of gloating over success
all by one's self.'

Hope protested against his assertion that
he had no friends, and he thanked her for
her protest, without being convinced by it.
Friendship implies equality,' he observed.

I don't admit that for a moment,' rejoined

Hope. ' Besides, a great artist has
no superiors.'

They debated this point for a while and
then wandered away to other topics. Jacob
prolonged the conversation by every means
in his power ; for he felt a growing reluctance
to discharge the commission which he
had taken upon himself xlt last he drew the
note from his pocket and said, without any
preface : ' I met Captain Cunningham when I
was out riding just now, and he asked me to
give you this

He did not look at her as he spoke, not
wishing to detect signs of pleasure or embarrassment
upon her features. He thought
it probable that she would display some such
emotion ; but he was very far from being prepared
for what she actually did. She sprang
to her feet, exclaiming ' Mr. Stiles ! ' in a tone
which forced him to raise his eyes. Perhaps
he looked guilty ; at any rate, she thought he
did, and her indignation increased

you care at all about the friendship
that we were speaking of just now, you will

never clo such a thing again ! ' she cried.
Then she tore the letter across and across,
and threw the fragments away from her.

She had acted upon an angry impulse,
and it was not long before she saw what a
very foolish thing she had done. Jacob's
amazed face and one moment of reflection
sufficed to show her that, and she made a
desperate and entirely futile effort to recover
her lost position, saying, with a forced laugh :
You did not know what a bad temper I
have, did you ? Captain Cunningham and
I had a — sort of quarrel the other day, and I
suppose this is a letter of apology. I hate
apologies ; but I ought not to have torn up
his note. Please forget my silly behaviour.'

Of course — of course. It is as if it had
never happened,' answered Jacob, hardly
knowing what he said. 'If you and Captain
Cunningham quarrelled, I am sure that it was
he who was in the wrong ; but I will certainly
carry no more messages for him.'

With characteristic prudence, he stooped
and picked up the scraps of paper before the

wind bore them away. ' Had you not better
burn them ? ' he suggested.

Had he had all his wits about him, he
would scarcely have made such a speech ;
but, fortunately, Hope was quite as much confused
as he, and did not perceive the full
significance of it. ' Yes,' she replied, taking
the fragments from him, hastily — ' or rather,
no ; I had better put them together again
and see what he has to say.'

It was not until she had regained the
house and her own room that she realised
how unequivocally she had betrayed what
ought to have remained a profound secret.

E>'D OF THE SECOND T0LU>rE.

rRIXTKD BY
SrorriSWOODE and CO., KETV-fiXKEET SQUARE

By MPS. HENRY WOOD,

East Lynn. (139th Thousand.)

Anne Hereford.

Bess Ease.

The Channing.

Court Netherleigh.

Dene Hollow.

Medina.

Bister's Folly.

George Canterbury's Will.

Johnny Ludlow (1st Series).

Johnny Ludlow (2nd Series).

Lady Adelaide.

Life's Secret, A.

Lord Oakum's Daughters.

The Master of Greyhounds.

Mildred Arkell.

Mrs. Halliburton's Troubles,

Orville College.

Oswald Cray.

Parkwater.

Poverty Abbey.

Bed Court Farm.

Roland Yorke.

Shadow of Ashlydyat.

St. Martin's Eve.

Trevelyan Hold.

Werner's Pride.

Within the Maze.

By FRANCES M. Heard.

Near Neighbours.

By RHODA Boughton.

Belinda.

Cometh up as a Flower.
Good-bye, Sweetheart !
Joan. I Nancy.

Not Wisely but too Well.
Red as a Rose is She.
Second Thoughts.

By MPS. ALEXANDER.

Look before you Leap.
Her Dearest Foe.
The Admiral's Ward.
The Executor.
The Frees.
The Wooing o't.
Which shall it be ?

By MPS. ANNIE Edwards.

A Ball Room Repentance.
Leah : a Woman of Fashion.
Ought We to Visit Her ?
Steven Lawrence : Yeoman.

By MPS. Liddell.
Berne Boyle.

George Leith of Fen Court.
Susan Drummond.
A Girton Girl.

fin the press.

By MPS, PARR.

Adam and Eve.
Dorothy Fox.

By HAWLEY SMART.

Breeze Langton.

London : RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, New Burlington Street,
Fishers in Ordinary to Her Majesty the Queen.

By CHARLES READE.

A Perilous Secret.

By the Hon. L. WINGFIELD.

Lady Grizzly

ROSA N. CAREY.

Barbara Heathcote's Trial.
Nellie's Memories.
Not Like other Girls.
Robert Ord's Atonement.
Wooed and Married.

By JESSIE FOTHERGILL.

The ' First Violin.'

Healey. | Kith and Kin.

Probation.

The Wellfields.

By J. SHERIDAN LE Fan.

In a Glass Darkly.

The House by the Churchyard.

Uncle Silas. / /^

By MARCUS CLARKE.

For the Term of his Natural
Life.

By Baroness TAUTPHCEUS.

The Initials. | Quits I

By Mrs. CAMPBELL Prayed.

Policy and Passion.

By HELEN Matters.

Coming' thro' the Rye.
Sam's Sweetheart.

By ANTHONY TROLLOPE.

The Three Clerks.

By F. MONTGOMERY.

Misunderstood.

Seaport.

Thrown Together.
By JANE AUSTEN.

the only CoriLjjlete Edition, besides
the Stevenson Edition, at (jii.s- )

Emma.

Lady Susan, and The Watson.

Mansfield Park.

Northanger Abbey, and Persuasion.


Pride and Prejudice.

Sense and Sensibility.

MPS. Motley.

Olive Varcoe.

By

By Lady G. FULLERTON.

Ellen Middleton.

Ladybird.

Too Strange not to be True.

By W. CLARK RUSSELL.

An Ocean Free Lance.

ANONYMOUS.

The Last of the Cavaliers.

BENTLEY'S FOREIGN FAVOURITE NOVELS.

By HECTOR Malt.

No Relations. (With Illustrations.)

By Mrs. AUGUSTUS CRAVEN.

A Sister's Story.

By E. WERNER.

No Surrender.

Success: and How he Won it.

Under a Charm.

London : RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, New Burlington Street,
Publishers in Ordinary to Her Majesty the Queen.

:hip

■mmm

■'mm

M

3 0112 052948616

(t% "If

:^;

<^.^

':'■;■:.^'!}i^^.•■

-m^

^^^■^^^:.-<^ -^, ■"■■

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

A BACHELOR'S BLUNDER

BY

W. E. Norris

AUTHOR OF 'MATRIMONY' 'THIRLBY HALL ' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

LONDON
RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON STREET

^nblts^ers in ©rbtnarg ta ser ^ajwtg tee ^ttcen


All rights reserved

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

CONTENTS

OF

THE Tried VOLUME.

CHAPTER

PAGE

XXXI. DICK IS QUITE CANDID 1

XXXII. FAREWELL ! 24

XXXIII. A GENEROUS OFFER . 46

XXXIV. A QUIET TIME 72

XXXV. A TREATY OF PEACE . . .-93

XXXVI. TRISTRAM POINTS A MORAL . . . . 114
XXXVII. HOPE IS TAKEN TO THE PLAY . . .134
XXXVIII. BERTIE ACCOMMODATES HIMSELF TO Circumstances
159

XXXIX. * CAIN ' 175

XL. Jacob's confession 190

XLI. in the woods 214

XLII. JACOB UNDER A NEW ASPECT . . . 237

XLIII. IN VIRGINIA CITY 253

XLIV. A LONG JOURNEY 274

XLV. ' FOR HER SAKE ! ' 297

XLVI. HOPE TAKES HER OWN WAY . . . . 315

XLVII. EXPLANATIONS ARE DISPENSED WITH . . 340

XLVIII. CONCLUSION 356

in 2009 with funding from
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/bachelorsblunder03norr

CHAPTER XXXI.

DICK IS QUITE CANDID.

More locked her door and pieced together
the torn strips of Bertie's letter, which was a
somewhat lengthy one, filling all four sides of
a sheet of note-paper. In substance it proved
to be much what she had anticipated, and
was not badly worded, considering the disadvantages
under which the writer must have
laboured in composing it. He called himself
many bad names, he confessed that his
conduct had been utterly inexcusable, and
then proceeded to plead the usual excuses.
He had tried so hard and so long to conceal
the truth ; it had been wrung from him in
Vol. III. 13

a moment of weakness and overwhelming
temptation wliicli no one could regret more
deeply than he did. He could not expect
that she, whose sense of duty was so strong,
should be able to make allowance for an
unlucky wretch, who was always doing the
things that he ought not to do ; nor would
he venture to ask for forgiveness. Only
he did beg her to consider whether (seeing
that his offence could by no possibility be
repeated) they might not meet again with
an outward show of cordiality. Surely, for
everybody's sake (these words were heavily
underscored), that would be the best and
wisest plan ; and he would undertake to inflict
as little of his society upon her as might
be.

There was a i^ood deal more to the like
effect, and when Hope had read it all she was
in some degree mollified, feeling that Captain
Cunningham had at least expressed himself
respectfully and remorsefully. But on a
second perusal of his effort she was not quite
so well pleased with it. Throughout it there

ran a suggestion — not put into words, yet
discernible — that it was only lier sense of
duty that had prevented her from responding
to his declaration in a different manner.
'Fate has treated us very cruelly,' he lead
written in one place, and had then drawn his
pen through the word ' us ' and substituted
me.' She did not like that. And then,
again, it was evident that his chief desire was
to avoid exposure and scandal. Stripped of
its flourishes, the letter simply amounted to
this : ' I have been very unfortunate and also,
if you choose, very culpable ; but I shall not
shock you by speaking plainly a second time,
and therefore I trust that you will have sufficient
savoir vivre to keep your own counsel
and let the matter drop.'

She laughed a little bitterly as she destroyed
his effusion, to which she resolved to
send no reply. The situation out of which she
had been disposed to make a tragedy was
almost comic, after all. The calm, selfish
common sense displayed by all concerned in
it, except herself, partly provoked and partly

amused lier — the former rather more than the
latter, perhaps. She had been apprehensive
lest her husband should lay violent hands upon
the man who had insulted her ; yet she had
not been altogether pleased by the promptitude
of his assurance that he intended doing
nothing so unnecessary. Prudence is an excellent
quality ; but it is not exactly one of
the attributes of a hero, and most women
prefer men who have a spice of the heroic in
their composition. For Dick there was something
to be said, since it had not been with a
view to his own comfort alone that he had
decided to steer clear of a disturbance ; but
as for Bertie Cunningham, who had not even
the poor courage of his iniquity, and who
apparently did not object to being regarded
with contempt, so long as the contempt was
veiled from the eyes of society, he was a very
pitiable creature. That was Hope's deliberate
judgment upon him ; and probably it was not
much less just than the generality of judgments
that are delivered publicly and privately
in this uneven world.

On the following day Dick left for Ports-month,
after briefly mentioning that it would
take him about a week to see to the fitting out
of the yacht, and so Hope and Carry were
left to entertain one another. This they did
to their mutual satisfaction by leaving one
another very much alone. It was a fortunate
as well as a somewhat singular circumstance
that Miss Herbert was not, and never had been,
jealous of her sister-in-law. She did not think
Hope at all the sort of person who would be
likely to fascinate Bertie. His delight, as she
had painful reason to know, was in quiet, safe
flirtations, and Hope appeared to her to be
ignorant of the very first principles of the art
of flirting. Bertie would never trouble himself
to pay much attention to a woman of that
stamp, however great might be her beauty.
Moreover, Bertie had taken very good care
not to do so when Carry was looking on.
Therefore, although at this time she was nota
little anxious and disturbed in mind, her
anxiety took no aggressive form ; nor, when
they met, did Hope find her disagreeable,

iimvelcomc tlioiigli a good deal of lier conversation
was.

I suppose,' she remarked interrogatively
one day at luncheon, 'you don't mean to go
yachting with Dick ? '

I have not been asked yet,' Hope replied.

Do you wait for an invitation ? If you
are so far honoured as to receive one, let me
advise you to decline it. Dick isn't a fairweather
sailor; nothing would induce him to
go pottering round the coast from regatta to
regatta. His notion of enjoyable yachting is
being caught in a gale in the Bay of Biscay
and having to lie to for forty-eight hours. He
is never thoroughly happy unless tons of water
are pouring over the decks and cooking anything
is quite out of the question.'

'Yet I think I remember his telling me
that he didn't like stormy weather,' observed
Hope.

Ah ! that confirms my suspicions. It
always seemed to me impossible that any sane
being could have such perverted tastes, and ashe
has never yet taken me out without half

drowning me, I presume that his object must
have been to disgust me with the sea. Perhaps
you have discovered by this time that Dick is
not fond of having women about when he is
amusing himself.'

You make him out very selfish.'

I never knew a man who was not ; only
Dick's selfishness is rather more undisguised
than other men's. I don't say so to annoy
you, you know.'

You do not annoy me in the least,' answered
Hope, quite truthfully.

Whether her husband was or was not
more selfish than other men, he had convinced
her that her company was no addition to his
enjoyment, and she had not the least intention
of taking part in any cruise that he might be
contemplating. Things being as they were,
she was inclined to hope that his cruise would
be a prolonged one. Nevertheless, she was
wholly unprepared for the announcement that
he made on his return, after an absence often
days.

'I'm going to take the yacht across the

Atlantic,' he said, as coolly as if he had been
talking of taking her across the Channel.
'Francis and I are bound for Wyoming to
shoot wapiti, and we might as well do the
voyage comfortably, as we have plenty of
time before us. I hate a steamer.'

What was implied in shooting wapiti in
Wyoming Hope did not quite realise at first ;
but the thought of the time likely to be consumed
in a voyage across the Atlantic under
sail rather took her breath away. ' You won't
be back for some months, then?' she said,
with a slight quiver in her voice.

Well, no. In fact, I suppose I may say
that we shan't be back for a year, at least.
The winter is out and out the best season for
sport in the Cockles, you see. That is, of
course, for those who don't mind rouo^hins^ ita
bit. I should never think of taking an
untried companion into those parts ; but with
Francis I know I'm all right. I've seen him
in more than one awkward place before now,
and I can tell you that he is a good deal
tougher than he looks.'

But the question of Mr. Francis's toughness
or tenderness was one more Hkely to interest
the grizzly bears of the Eocky Mountains than
Hope. She paid no heed to, and scarcely
heard, the hist of that gentleman's valuable
qualities which Dick now proceeded to unfold,
having, indeed, enough to do to hide her
consternation and collect her scattered ideas.
To conceal emotion is not always the wisest of
courses ; but it is that which commends itself
to most of us at critical moments, and Hope had
reasons which, if not good ones, were at least
easily comprehensible for wishing to assume
an appearance of indifference. That she lead
reached a crisis in her life she was quite aware
indeed, that was the one things of which she
was clearly conscious in the midst of her anger
and bewilderment ; and it was only because
she did perceive this that she refrained from
letting her husband take his own way without
a word of expostulation.

Have you quite decided upon making
this expedition ? ' she asked, as soon as she
felt that she could command her voice.

I have so far decided that I have made
most of my arrangements,' answered Dick.
They can be unmade, if necessary ; but I
have thought it all over carefully, and I believe
it is the best thing to do — in every way.'

It seems to me,' said Hope, ' that there
are one or tv/o considerations which you can
hardly have taken into account. They may
not be very important ; still, such as they are,
they have to be reckoned with. Have you
thought, for instance, of the gossip that there
will be about your hurrying away for an
indefinite time scarcely a year after your
marriage ? '

Dick shrugged his shoulders. ' Oh, yes, I
have thought of that. It's a bore ; but it's
unavoidable. Besides, you know, I have the
character of being rather a queer sort of
specimen. People Avon't think it quite so odd
in me as they would in anybody else.'

And if they do, you will be a good many
thousands of miles away, so that it will not
affect you much. I wouldn't have mentioned
it, only I fancied that you set rather

a high vahie upon the good opinion of Lady-chatter
ton and the rest of them. And then,
has it not struck you that I shall be a little
bit awkwardly placed during your absence ? '

In what way do you mean ? '

Hope had a momentary difficulty in replying,
so he went on : ' I really don't think
you will. You will continue to live just as
you have done — or rather, you Avill live
differently, if you prefer it. As far as money
goes, there will be no difficulty, for I will take
care that you shall not be troubled about that,
and of course there will be nothing to prevent
sour going into society and receiving your
friends as much as you please.'

I can't agree with you there,' answered
Hope ; ' but that is of no consequence.' She
stopped short rather suddenly. She had
several very cutting little speeches at the tip
of her tongue ; but somehow she could not
get them out.

Dick glanced quickly at her. ' Look here,
Hope,' he said, ' if you had rather I didn't go,
you have only to say so.'

It is not a question of that,' she returned.
And then, With a shglit change of tone, ' Go by
all means ; only I don't quite understand iclty
you are going. If it is for the sake of sport,
I have nothing more to say ; but if it is for
any other reason, I think I ought to be told
of it.'

Dick looked down, frowning little.
Hadn't we better assume that it is for the
sake of sport ? ' he asked.

Why should we assume anything, except
the truth ? I don't know what you mean.
You seem to imply that I have done something
wrong and must be punished for it, and
you speak as though you were too generous to
reproach me. I will not submit to that. If
I am to be accused at all, let me be accused
openly.'

This was by no means wdiat Hope had
intended to say when the conversation began ;
but as her husband's motives for deserting her
became more apparent her sense of injury
increased, and she felt that she was at least
entitled to an explanation.

To SO direct a challenge Dick could not
refuse to respond ; but it was with obvious
reluctance that he answered : ' I can put
things in black and white if you insist upon
it ; but it seems to me to be needless. There
are subjects which are best not entered into
between friends.'

That is the exact contrary of what I have
always heard you maintain.'

I think not. Certainly there ought to bea
clear understanding '

Well, there is no understanding in this
case. At least, there is none upon my
side.'

Dick sighed. 'All right, then,' he said;
I'll be quite candid. It is true that I do
want to shoot wapiti and bighorn. I shall like
going out there again, and I believe it will dome
a lot of good ; but of course I shouldn't
have thought of this expedition if it hadn't been
for what you told me the other day. Under
the circumstances, I think it is wiser for me
to take myself off for a bit, that's the long and
the short of it. I am very sorry if my leaving

yoii looks to you like an accusation against
yourself; but it never occurred tome that you
could see it in that light. I told you at the
time — and I can do no more than repeat what
I said — that you had acted as honourably as
it was possible to act ; and as for punishment
well, surely you will hardly feel my absence
as a punishment.'

He paused and looked questioningly at
Hope, who replied, ' Your friends will probably
think that it is meant so.'

I assure you they will think no such
thing. You make me say what I would
much rather not say. When a man goes off
to the wilds, as I am going now, is it his wife
whom people blame ? Don't they know
perfectly well that that would be the last
thing he would do if he had any reason to
suspect her of being untrue to him ? They
may say he has been quarrelling with her, and
they may call him a selfish brute ; but they
must either set him down as an absolute itliot
or acknowledge that he trusts her entirely.
However, as I said before, I am willing to ive

the whole thing up, if you would prefer my
remaining in England.'

No,' answered Hope slowly ; ' I should be
sorry to deprive you of enjoyment. It was
foolish of me to talk of your wanting to
punish me ; I might have known — but we will
say no more about it. It was only because I
was a little startled just at first. After all,
you are a better judge than I of what
people will say, and I dare say you are
right in deciding that we should part for a
time.'

I'm sure you'll agree with me when you
have thought it over,' Dick declared, with
evident relief. And then, drawing a little
nearer to her, ' Hope, my dear,' he said,
kindly, ' the beginning and end of the whole
business is that we have made a mistake ; or,
rather, it is I who made the mistake, for you
never really wished to marry me. In one
sense it is irreparable, because we must continue
to be man and wife until one of us dies ;
but '

But we can be so as little as possible.'

That was not what I was going to say,'
observed Dick.

But it was what you meant. I wonder
whether you would mind telling me something


What is it ? '

Only a piece of idle curiosity. Was it
Mr. Francis who advised you to go to
America ? '

Not he,' answered Dick, laughing a little.
On the contrary, he was dead against it — did
all he could to make me give the thing up,
until he saw that I was determined.'

He did all he could o make you give up
the idea of marrying, didn't he ? ' asked Hope.
If I remember rightly, he was dead against
that too.'

This Dick could not deny ; and Hope resumed
: ' Well, he will be able to triumph
now. He has made no mistake, whatever
other people may have done.'

But Francis, when he came down to stay
at Farndon — as he did a few days after this —
wore anything but a triumphant aspect. He

was grave and subdued, spoke little, and gave
Hope no opportunity of quarrelling with him,
Avhicli she had been half prepared to do.
She had never liked the man, feeling sure that
he had never liked her ; nor did his present
reserved attitude advance liii in her good
graces. His face said, as plainly as faces can
speak, that he considered this temporary separation
between husband and wife a serious
affair, and deplored it as a misfortune for his
friend. That he blamed her, Hope was convinced
; and she would have been almost
better pleased if he had said so openly, instead
of sitting silent, listening, observing, and
evidently trying to get at the rights of a
mysterious matter.

Carry, too, did not behave as might have
been anticipated. She heard the news of
Dick's impending journey without apparent
surprise and with very little in the way of
remark ; but her manner towards Hope became
somewhat softened, and it was easy to
see that she pitied her sister-in-law — which
was nearly as bad as condemning her. In

Vol. in. C

truth, Hope was rather liard to please at this
time. Perhaps the generality of women
would have been so in her place, and perhaps,
if she was a little petulant every now and
then, allowances might very well be made for
her.

Allowances were made for her both by
Miss Herbert and by Mr. Francis, although
neither of them happened quite to understand
the nature of her case. They talked it over
together one afternoon, when Dick had gone
up to London to hurry the tradespeople who
were preparing his impedimenta and when
Hope, who of late had been testing the
value of Tristram's recipe, was hard at work
in Jacob Stiles's studio.

I wish to goodness your brother could
be induced to drop this precious scheme
of his ! ' Francis said. ' It's all wrong, you
know.'

Carry made a grimace. 'It is what was
morally bound to happen. Candidly speaking,
I think it is rather too bad of Dick ; but
there's no use in saying so. If people will

marry nomads, they must be prepared for the
natural consequences.'

As far as that goes, when nomads marry,
they should be prepared to change then manner
of life. But it isn't nomadic instinct that
is taking Herbert away from England now.'

Isn't it ? ' said Carry, raising her eyebrows
slightly. 'I don't know of anything
else that should take him away.'

Francis glanced at her with a half-amused,
half-puzzled expression. ' Do you really mean
that ? ' he asked.

Certainly I do. There has been no dissension
that I am aware of They are not
quite as devoted as they were just after the
honeymoon ; but that's of course. After all,
it isn't an altogether unheard-of thmcr for a
husband to go off on a shooting expedition
and leave his wife at home. Hope is annoyed,
and I don't wonder at it ; most likely I should
be annoyed myself if my husband treated me
so cavalierly. But then I should never choose
a man like Dick for my husband.'

Francis was no longer very young. He

c 2

had lived in the world, with all his faculties
of observation on the alert, for a considerable
number of years ; he knew that nearly all
difficulties end by arranging themselves, and
that even when they do not, the consequences
are seldom tragic. For men and women are
only grown-up children, and with the former
as with the latter grief, pain, anger, and the
rest of the emotions are sure to be followed
in due course by consolation and oblivion ; it
is only a question of substituting weeks or
months for hours. Nevertheless, there are
exceptions. There are people — quiet, reticent
sort of people, most of them — who never
forget, and can't be consoled ; and because
Francis believed that his friend Herbert was
one of these, and also because he was very
fond of his friend Herbert, he permitted himself
to say what he felt to be an imprudent
thing.

Certainly there is nothing unheard of ina
husband leaving his wife for a year or more,'
lie agreed ; ' I know of many instances in
which it has been done. And I know that in

several of those instances the result has been
calamitous.'

Carry laughed. ' You may make your
mind easy,' she said, ' Hope is not the kind of
woman to fall into calamity.'

But the same ihin^ mi^^lit have been said
in more than one of the cases that I am
thinking of.'

You mean that it might have been said
by people who didn't know what they were
talking about. I have had the privilege of
being acquainted with my sister-in-law for a
year, and I can assure you that, whatever her
failings may be, want of pride is not one of
them. Besides, she does not seem to form
intimacies readily. The only person to whom
lie has taken a marked fancy as yet is Jacob
Stiles, and I suppose you will hardly call Jacob
Stiles dangerous.'

Francis held his peace, marvelling inwardly
at the obtuseness of a woman who was reputed
U) be clever and whose infatuation for Cunningham
was notorious. It was true that she
had not been in London during the past

season, and was probably ignorant of a great
deal that lead been said there ; but Cunningham
lead been at Farndon both before and
since, and surely she might have suspected
what was no secret among Cunningham's acquaintances.
However, since she apparently
had not, it was plainly impossible that he
should enlighten her.

You won't try to keep Herbert at home,
then ? ' lie said.

'My dear Mr. Francis, do you suppose
that Dick would alloa himself to be kept at
home by me? K anybody could influence
him, I should say that it would be you.'

I have used such influence as I have ;
but there are certain arguments which a man
can't employ towards his friend, though a
sister might towards her brother.'

So you think that Dick would listen tome
if I told him that he had better remain on
the spot, lest his wife should elope with some
person unknown. I am quite certain that he
would not listen to me, and I very much doubt
whether you yourself believe in any such

danger. Why don't you want him to go ? I
thought you enjoyed shooting bears and getting
frost-bitten and running* the risk of losing
your scalp.'

I have an impression that we shall not
enjoy ourselves this time,' answered Francis ;
and I have also — I am glad to say — an impression
that Mrs. Herbert doesn't much enjoy
the prospect of our departure.'

I don't think she does, poor thing ! '
agreed Carry, with a shade of contempt. ' But,
as I said before, this was morally Found to
happen sooner or later. She will become reconciled
to her fate, which isn't such a particularly
hard one. I can imagine a worse.'

So can I,' said Francis, ' but, to tell the
truth, it is not so much in her fate that I am
interested as in Dick's.'

Carry did not in the least understand what
he was driving at ; but as she felt no special
curiosity upon the point, she forbore to question
him ; and so Francis's forlorn hope that
her jealousy might prove more powerful than
his eloquence was extinguished.

CHAPTER XXXII.

FAREWELL !

The exercise of an art — no matter of what
nature it be — is, beyond doubt, one of the
surest consolations that are open to afflicted
humanity ; and Tristram, who had had great
troubles in the course of his life and had taken
them deeply to heart, had spoken with all the
authority of personal experience in insisting so
much upon this unquestionable truth. Yet, if
he had remembered and related the whole of
his experience, he would have had to confess
that there had been days during which the
panacea had availed him nothing — days of
suspense and restlessness and nervous irritation
when he had either flung his brushes
down in despair or had forced himself to work
against the grain, thereby producing bad work,
which he knew all the time to be bad, and increasing

his misery, instead of allaying it. And
this was precisely what now befell Hope. She
tried Tristram's panacea in her hour of need,
and it failed altogether. Such skill as she
once had seemed to have completely deserted
her ; her drawing was ridiculously faulty, and
she found it impossible to fix her mind upon
what she was doing. Nor did she derive any
comfort from the praise which Jacob unblushingly
lavished upon her worst endeavours.
She did him the justice to admit that his insincerity
was prompted by kindness and commiseration,
and therefore refrained from snubbing
him, as she was often sorely tempted todo
; but it was hardly in human nature — at
any rate, it was not in lier nature — to like
being commiserated by Jacob. Indeed, what
exasperated her beyond everything was the
thought that she was in a position to be commiserated
at all. Why should she be so sorry
that Dick was going away? lie was not
sorry ; and even when he was at home, she
sav little enough of him now. Moreover, he
was no longer what he had been in the early

days of their married life. His manner had
become formal and reserved ; lie seemed to
consider that she had wronged him, although
he had verbally acquitted her of all blame ;
he had told her unequivocally that their marriage
had been a mistake. She ou2[ht to be
glad to get rid of him, and once or twice she
said to herself that she was glad. This assertion,
however, Alas not made more than once
or twice. Had she been able to make it to
him it might have relieved her ; but there
was no use in the world in making it to herself,
because she knew very well that it was
untrue. She knew very well that she would
miss him at every turn ; she realised — not
without some sensation of surprise — how she
had learnt to lean upon him, how much she
had counted upon his unwearied patience and
good temper, and how forlorn she would be
without him.

And, after all, she did not yet understand
why he was leaving her. As far as she was
able to make him out, it was partly because
he had become convinced that they were not

suited to each other, and partly because he
really had a hankering after sport in the backwoods.
He had been pleased to hint — and
she had been too proud to contradict him
more than once — that she cared for Bertie
Cunningham ; but he had not seemed to think
that it mattered very much if she did. It
could scarcely be on that account that he had
decided upon an expedition which he had
offered to abandon if she desired it. In the
depths of her heart she believed that, by
speaking a few words, she might induce him
to abandon it even now ; and, to tell the
truth, her chief reason for spending hour after
hour in Jacob's studio and sticking doggedly
to painting was the fear that she felt lest in a
moment of weakness she should be led into
saying those words. Better a thousand times
that Dick should go than that she should
detain him in England against his will and his
judgment.

So the long summer days slipped away,
while Hope, inwardly tormenting herself with
doubts, conjectures, and imaginings, preserved

an exterior as impassive as her husband's,
while Dick pushed forward his preparations,
and while Francis and Carry amused themselves
together as best they could — ^^vhich was
not very well. It had been arranged that
Francis should stay on until all was ready fora
start, and that the two men should leave
together. Very soon the date of their departure
was fixed, and very soon indeed after
that (as it seemed to Hope) the day itself
dawned. It found her with an aching head,
cold hands, and a heart as heavy as lead.
Since her father's death she had never felt so
utterly miserable, and when she appeared at
breakfast she did not even attempt to assume
a cheerful bearing. At that last moment it
could be of very little consequence whether she
looked cheerful or not. The others avoided
speaking to her ; they themselves appeared
to be a good deal depressed, and the conversation
languished. Even Dick, who had
hitherto shown no sign of care, was obviously
worried and anxious, and could not manage
to eat much.

When they had all risen and were leaving
the room, he touched Hope on the elbow and
signed to her to follow him into his den.
Just a few last instructions,' he said, as he
closed the door behind her.

Then he placed a chair for her, sat down
beside his writing-table, and, taking up a slip
of paper that was lying upon it, began to
explain rapidly the provisions that he had
made for her expenditure during his absence.
The figures struck Hope as being needlessly
large.

I shall never spend anything like that,'
she said.

Well, it will be all the better if you don't ;
but it won't much matter if you do. You
need not trouble yourself about it one way or
the other. I thought the best plan would be
to open a separate account for you at the
bank while I was away, and this paper will
show you exactly what you will have to draw
upon. I have disposed of all the horses that
I had in training and I have let a good part
of the shooting. There will be quite enough

left for any friends whom you may want to
ask down in the autumn.'

That sounds like going away for a longtime,*
observed Hope, with a faint smile.

^ Oh, I shall be away all the winter, of
course.' He paused for a moment, stroking
his moustache. ' There's another thing which
ought just to be mentioned, perhaps,' he
resumed presently ; ' it is on the cards that I
may never come back at all.'

Oh, Dick ! ' ejaculated Hope involuntarily
under her breath.

But he went on, without seeming to have
heard her interruption : ' I have shot a good
many grizzlies before now and never been in
danger from them to speak of ; but they are
awkward beasts if you don't happen to kill
them quite soon enough and if there isn't a
tree handy. Then, again, there is the off chance
of being frozen to death or rolling over a
precipice and breaking one's neck. None of
these things are over and above likely to
happen ; still, if anything does happen tome,
you'll be all right. I have left you

everything that I have it in my power to
leave, and '

How can you talk in that way ! ' exclaimed
Hope, starting up. ' Do you think I don't care
whether you die or live ? '

I am sure you would be sorry if I died,'
answered Dick, laughing a little ; ' I didn't
mean to imply a doubt of that. But I shall
die none the sooner for having left things
ship-shape ; and in case I do '

He stopped ; and Hope, with the old
feeling of irritation which his speeches were
so apt to arouse in her, said, ' Well, in case
you do, what then ? '

Then I think you may be glad to remember
that I wish you to dispose of your
future exactly as may seem best to you. I am
not going to make any conditions ; I won't
even offer you a word of advice about it.'

Won't you tell me what you would advise
? ' asked Hope ; for indeed she was somewhat
curious to hear.

'Xo; it might not be what you would
like, and then afterwards it might worry you

to disregard it. Well — I think that's about
all.'

There was a brief space of silence, and
then Hope said : ' Have you no orders or
instructions of any kind to give me ? I would
so much rather be told exactly what I am todo
when I am left alone.'

Dick shook his head. ' I don't know what
you may want to do. I can't tell you to stay
here a certain number of months, and move upto
London on a particular date, or make out a
list of houses that you may stay at and people
whom you may ask here.'

But that is just what I should like you
to do,' said Hope. ' I used to wish for independence
once — do you remember ? — but now
that I have got it, I don't think I care much
about it. It would really be a kindness
if you would let me feel that I have some
duty or other to perform. I should find a
sort of satisfaction in being able to say to
people, " My husband told me to do this," or
My husband said I wasn't to do that." '

All right, then ; I'll go so far as to say

that I would rather you didn't hunt next
whiter.'

I never dreamt of doing such a thing. Is
there nothing else ? '

Dick looked meditative. It was pretty-clear
that there was something else, but that
he had not quite made up his mind whether
he should mention it or not. He rose and
took a turn or two up and down the room
with his hands behind his back.

Won't you tell me ? ' asked Hope presently.


He seated himself sideways on the table,
facing her, and began : ' This isn't an instruction,
you know, still less an order ; it's — what
shall I say ? — an expression of opinion. You
needn't be guided by it, unless you like. What
I was thinking was that perhaps it might be
better if you didn't have Cunningham to stay
in the house again.'

Hope coloured furiously. How could he
imagine that she could wish to have Captain
Cunningham in the house ! For the moment
she was unable to find any words to answer

Vol. III. D

him, and he went on, considerately averting
his .eyes from her face : ' I just mention it
because I know Carry will want you to ask
him, and I doubt whether it would be altogether
comfortable for you to have him here.
I dare say you know that his battalion has left
Windsor.'

I know nothing whatever about it,'
Hope managed to say, in a rather unsteady
voice.

Ye ; they're off to Dublin, and, all things
considered, I'm not sorry for it. Xow we will
say no more upon that subject.'

It is a hateful subject, and I should be
only too glad to drop it for ever,' returned
Hope ; ' but I wish you at least to believe
that nothing would induce me to receive
Captain Cunningham as my guest.'

Yes, yes ; I quite understand that,' said
Dick, soothingly ; and it angered her to see
how anxious he was to avoid anything like a
scene. 'For your own sake, of course, you
wouldn't wish to receive him ; but Carry will
probably press you. In fact, you may be

obliged to give in, because you can't bring
forward any plausible reason for refusing.
All I meant to say was that I wouldn't, if I
were you, give in unless it seemed unavoidable.
Well ; I suppose we ought to be thinking
about saying good-bye.'

There was a perceptible change in his
voice as he uttered the last sentence. He
was evidently apprehensive ; and so, for that
matter, was Hope. It certainly was nearly
time to say good-bye ; but how was good-bye
to be said ? ' You need not start yet, need
you ? ' she faltered, more for the sake of
gaining a respite and tightening her hold
upon herself than from any wish to detain
him as long as possible.

Dick looked at his watch. 'We have
nearly a quarter of an hour,' he answered ;
but I must say a word or two to Carry
before I go — and I shan't see you alone again.'

Hope drew a long breath. ' Good-bye,
then,' she said, and held out her hand to him.

He took it in his, and stood looking down
upon her for an instant with kindly, rather

sorrowful eyes. What he was thinking she
could not tell ; but she fancied that he, like
the others, pitied her, and that was intolerable.
She tried to draw away her hand ; but
he held it fast.

How cold you are ! ' lie exclaimed,
What business have you to be coal on such
a fine, hot day ? ' And then, suddenly—
Why, Hoj)e, what is it ? My dear girl, you
mustn't distress yourself like this.'

For Hope had broken down altogether,
in spite of her determination to be calm and
dignified and to spare him the scene which
she knew that he dreaded. She was trembling
from head to foot, and the tears filled
her eyes, brimmed over, and ran down her
cheeks. ' I don't want you to go ! ' she
gasped, piteously. ' I don't want you to go
and — and be killed by grizzly bears ! ' And
then she burst out laughing at herself and
could not stops though her laughter was
broken by sobs.

Dick laughed too. ' What nonsense ! ' he
exclaimed, cheerfully ; and if there was a

slight tremor in his own voice, Hope was
far too agitated to notice it. 'I ought not to
have said anything about the grizzle. They
are very much more likely to be killed by me
than I am to be killed by them, I can assure
you. In fact, we are not undertaking what
anybody could call a dangerous expedition,
and we shall be back again before you know
where you are. A year is soon over.'

Hope shook her head despairingly. ' I
don't think so — I think a year is an immense
time. Besides, you said it might be more
than a year. Must you go, Dick ? '

Oh, yes,' he answered, hastily but decisively,
' I must go now ; it is too late to
change our minds. And we should regret
it if we did ; I am sure of that. You are
upset just now ; but afterwards you will see
that it Alas the best thing to do.' He bent
down over her and kissed her forehead.
Good-bye, m}^ dear, and God bless you ! ' he
said. Then he turned and made as though
he would have left the room ; but Hope
clung to his arm.

You will write to me, won't you, Dick ? '
lie asked.

Wliat a question ! Of course I will, and
I'll telegraph as soon as we reach New York.
You must write to me too — when you're
inclined, you know — and tell me all you are
doing. We shall not be able to write or
receive letters very regularly ; but I'll keep
the communications open as well as I can.
When you don't hear, you may take it for
granted, that we are all right. If any misfortune
happens, the news will reach you fast
enough. Now I really ought to go and look
for Carry.'

As soon as he had effected his escape
Hope resolutely swallowed down her tears.
She had still a short time left in which to
compose herself, and she dismissed from her
mind every consideration except the paramount
one of presenting a moderately creditable
appearance at the last moment. When
once the dog-cart should have driven away
she would be at liberty to go to her own
room and indulge her grief as much as she

pleased. And so, when lie emerged into the
hall, the inquisitive eyes of the servants assembled
there discovered nothings more than
that she had been cr3dng ; and that they
probably thought only decent, under the circumstances.
The sunshine was streaming
through the open door, where Dick, Francis,
and Carry where standing ; beyond them Hope
could see the red wheels of the dog-cart.

Oh, there you are ! ' called out Dick,
who was lighting a cigar. ' I was just going
to send for you. Now, Francis, you might
as well jump in; we haven't too much time.
Good-bye, everybody ; pray for easterly
breezes, and don't flatter yourselves that we
have gone to the bottom of the sea if you
hear nothing of us for a month.' He had
assumed a brisk, bustling demeanour which
sat rather oddly upon him. ' Where's Jake ? '
he asked suddenly. ' Eun and look for him,
somebody. Confound the fellow! what does
lie mean by hiding himself? '

A footman darted upstairs and presently
returned, casting indignant glances over his

shoulder at Jacob, who followed him with
swift, noiseless steps. Dick had already
climbed into the dog-cart. He bent down,
stretching out his hand to the younf^ man,
who stood bareheaded in the sunshine.

Good-bye, Jake,' Hope heard him say.
Don't get made President of the Eoyal
Academy before I come back, because I
should like to assist at the inaugural banquet.
In the meantime, if you Avant novelty in the
way of subjects, you had better come out
to Denver or Cheyenne and ask for us. Weare
sure to be somewhere or other within a
thousand miles or so, and I daresay you'll
find us, if you look about.'

This good-humoured jocularity, which
seemed to be a little forced, provoked no
responsive smile upon Jacob's grave and
rather sullen countenance. ' I hope you will
have good sport,' he said shortly, and drew
back without another word.

Then Dick gathered up the reins, the
groom sprang back from the horse's head,
and in another moment the dog-cart was

bowling down the avenue at a smart pace,
while Hope, motionless in the doorway, stood
gazing after it. Carry said something about
its being unlucky to watch people out of
sight; but in spite of that remonstrance she
remained where she was until Dick, having
reached the point at which the road branched
off at rio'ht angeles, waved his hat as a last
farewell, and so vanished.

Hope turned round and found that she
was alone. Carry had gone back into the
house, as had also Jacob and the servants.
Before following their example, she looked
out once more at the broad, sunny landscape,
the air quivering with the heat, the bright-coloured
flower-beds, with the butterflies
hovering over them, and the undulating park
beyond ; and as she looked, the memory of
her first morning at Farndon came vividly
back to her. How long ago that seemed !
and what a change had come over her life
in one brief year ! Assuredly it had been
with no extravagant anticipations of happiness
that she had started ; but she had

thought that a peaceful, easy, and not unpleasant
sort of existence lay before her, and
she remembered to have made some good
resolutions which she had tried to keep.
Whose fault was it that the whole business
had ended in utter, irremediable failure ?
How had it come to pass that two people
who had married without illusions, and with
what had appeared to be a perfect mutual
understanding, had so soon been reduced
to the ,dismal and almost ludicrous shift of
placing the Atlantic Ocean between them ?
Somebody, surely, must be to blame for such
a state of things. And yet, perhaps, nobody
was exactly to blame, and the catastrophe
was the natural outcome of a marriage contract
entered into upon those terms. What
did not strike Hope as odd was the fact that
she should consider what had happened a
catastrophe at all. Dick had said from the
very first that he would probably be a good
deal away from home ; and that much Hope
might have recollected (although for the
moment she did not) ; because it is easy

enough for people who have tolerably good
memories to recall matters of fact. But,
on the other hand, there is nothing in the
world more difficult to realise or even believe
in than a state of feeling which has passed
away ; and that is why Hope, after she had
mounted the stairs to her bedroom, with a
slow, dragging step, and had locked the door
behind her, flung herself down upon a sofa
and gave way to despair.

Oh, Dick ! ' she moaned aloud, ' how
could you be so cruel to me — how could you
leave me, when I love you so ? '

It was the first time that she had made
this confession to herself in so many words,
and the sound of it startled her a little, though
she had been vaguely conscious of the truth
for some time past. Of course she loved him.
She had loved him all along — certainly ever
since her marriage : perhaps even before. It
was because she loved him that his placid
good-humour had so provoked her, and that
she had sometimes assailed him with sharp
speeches ; it was because she loved him that

lie had so bitterly resented his insinuation
that she could care for Bertie Cunningham ;
it was because she loved him, and knew that
he had only a lukewarm sort of friendship for
her, that she had refrained from entreating
him to abandon this journey, from which he
might never return. She saw it all now, but,
of course, even if she had seen it sooner, she
could not have acted otherwise than as she
had done. What use or object would there
have been in keeping him by her side, knowing
all the time that he preferred the society
of trappers and Need Indians to hers? And
then she remembered, with a sharp twinge of
jealousy, that he had admitted having been in
love once. He was just the sort of man who
would be incapable of falling in love a second
time.

'And I don't believe he even feels the
friendship for me that he used to feel,' murmured
poor Hope. ' He thinks we are not
suited to each other and that we have made
a mistake, and he is sorry for me — that
is all.'

So lie lay there With clenched fingers and
dr}^ eyes, saying to herself, as young people
are so apt to do when the world goes ill with
them, that there was nothing to look forward
to now but death.

CHAPTEE XXXIII.,

A Generous OFFER.

That the fascinations of Dublin society are
very great is what no Sassenach, however
bigoted, will venture to deny ; yet, if a man's
chief interests happen to be centred in
London and its vicinity, also if he be fully
persuaded in his own mind that only one
small section of society is really worthy of
his attention, he cannot suffer transplantation
without a wrench, and the officers of Her
Majesty's Foot Guards are, perhaps, a little
too much given to indulge in plaints and
murmuring when they are despatched across
St. George's Channel. This makes it the
more gratifying to be able to state that the
battalion to which Captain Cunningham belonged
afforded one conspicuous exception

to the above rule, in the person of Captain
Cunningham himself.

Bertie had, indeed, reasons for congratulating
himself upon his change of quarters,
of which his anxiety to be removed from the
neighbourhood of Farndon was only one — •
though doubtless the chief. He had been
profoundly mortified — and almost as much
puzzled as mortified — by the indignant contempt
with which Hope had received his
avowal of love. Nothing of that kind had
ever happened to him before ; no one had
ever addressed such language to him (though
he had given more than one person an
excellent excuse for so doing), and he could
not quite understand it. Of course he had
done wrong. He had said what ought not to
have been said ; he had broken his resolution,
and, in a severely literal sense, he had certainly
insulted the woman whom he loved.
But he could not help being astonished that
she should say or think so. When the days
passed on, bringing him no acknowledgment
of his apology, he felt that he was being

punished with almost vindictive rigour, and
although his love for Hope was not diminished
by what he considered her needless cruelty, it
was a great relief to him to be ordered to a
city in which he would run no risk of chance
encounters with her. He was glad, too, to
be out of Carry's reach ; and, again, he was
glad to be out of the reach of his friend Mrs.
Pierpoint ; finally, he was very glad to be out
of the reach of duns.

This security, it is true, was rather
apparent than real; for Dublin, after all, is
not so very far away, and the postal service
which connects it with the metropolis is
admirably organised. If Bertie had lost sight
of the above circumstance, he was speedily
reminded of it. In fact, he lead not been a
week in Ireland when he received by one and
the same delivery a batch of most disquieting
letters. He was a man who habitually received
a great many letters, of which a fair proportion
were rather pleasant than otherwise, and
it was his sensible rule always to read the
disagreeable ones first. When, therefore, he

recognised his ftitlier's handwriting upon one
of the envelopes, he unhesitatingly accorded
to it the place of honour, and its contents
fully justified his discrimination.

Sir Robert Cunningham was afflicted with
a large family, a large estate, a moderate rent-roll,
and a short temper. His younger sons
had been no sort of comfort to him, and
when he could get hold of them he took good
care to make things excessively uncomfortable
for them in return. Therefore they usually
skipped nimbly out of his way, and, as he
detested letter-writing, he only communicated
with them when under the influence of great
exasperation. Such an influence had evidently
been strong upon him when he sat down to
indite the epistle which our friend Bertie was
now perusing. The old gentleman's style was
terse and vigorous. He wasted no space in
prefatory remarks, but came straight to the
point : —

'Dear Bertie [he wrote], — What the devil
do your confounded tailors and saddlers mean
Vol. hi. E

by sending in their bills to me ? Even you
can hardly be such an ass as to think that
I shall pay them. I am not going to be
bothered in this way, and if anything of the
kind occurs again I shall cut 100/. a year off
your allowance to teach you better manners.
Since I am writing to you, I may as well
mention that I am not half pleased with what
I have been hearing about you lately. I
understand that you are still playing fast
and loose with a lady whom report says that
you might have married, and ought to have
married, any time during the last year, or
more. If you choose to throw away an ample
income, that is your affair ; you are free to
please yourself. But you are not free to
behave in a manner unbecoming a gentleman,
and rumours have reached my ears of an entanglement
connected with this affair which
strikes me as highly discreditable. You had
better take this as a warning and mind what
you are about ; for, as sure as I am alive, I
will stop your allowance altogether if you
disgrace yourself; and from what I know of

you, you will hardly enjoy supporting yourself
by manual labour.'

A truly sickening missive ! Bertie tossed
it aside with a grimace, and proceeded to a
further examination of his correspondence
The next letter on the list was from Mr.
Abraham Levison, financial agent ; and Mr.
Abraham Levison said that this would never,
never do ! Such leniency as he had shown to
Captain Cunningham was without a parallel in
the whole history of his benevolent career.
Probably there was no man in London or elsewhere
who would have lent money upon terms
so absurdly easy ; certainly there was no other
who would have displayed such boundless
patience. But to everything there must bean
end. Business was business ; and unless
Captain Cunningham woidd consent to be a
little more businesslike — &c., &c. Then came
a politely-worded but decisive request from a
well-known firm of West-end hosiers. Captain
Cunningham's account had now been running
on for upwards of five years, and they were

E 2

compelled reluctantly to demand immediate
payment. A Windsor tradesman was less
urbane : — ' I can't stand it no longer, nor yet
I won't stand it. You must settle, Captain,
and look sharp about it too, or I'll have the
law of 5^ou, and that's flat.'

After running his eye over several other
intimations similar in character and more or
less peremptory in tone, Bertie felt himself ina
fit frame of mind to read a somewhat bulky
letter which he had already recognised as
coming from Miss Herbert. ' I wonder what
she has got to say ! Possibly lie, too, may
have decided to " have the law of me " if I am
not more businesslike,' he murmured, with a
dreary little laugh.

However, Carry's did not prove to be a
threatening letter. It was written, as her
letters always were, in a style expressive
rather of good-fellowship than of tender sentiments,
and it conveyed the ncAvs — somewhat
startling to its recipient — of Dick's sudden
disappearance from the scene. ' I am really
quite ashamed of him,' his sister declared,

and I can't help being very sorry for poor
Hope, tlioiigli she is rather a goose, in my
opinion. Ever since he left, she has been
going about with a face as long as your arm,
and making the most piteous and futile efforts
to look as if nothing was the matter. I have
done my little best to console her, but have
only got snubbed for my pains. However, I
won't run her down, for I am aware that you
have looked upon her as an angel since you
broke your leg, and she read good books to
you. By-the-by, did she read good books to
you ? But I am sure she did ; and you are
just the man to delight in that kind of thing
when stretched upon a bed of sickness. Eor
my own part, I only wish she were an angel —
at least, I wish she had wings. In that case
she would doubtless take flight for Wyoming,
and I might ask a few cheery people to stay.
As things are at present, the house is about
as gay as my own house in Yorkshire used to
be when it wasn't my own house, and when
poor old Aunt Anne was laboriously keeping
herself alive with tea-kettles.'

At this point Bertie laid down the sleet
and became lost in meditation. Why was
Hope's face so long, and why was she inconsolable
? Assuredly not because her husband
had gone away. He had seen too much of
their daily relations to believe that either of
them had more than a sober sort of liking for
the other. And then, again, what did Herbert
mean by rushing off to the other side of the
world at a moment's notice ? But, not being:
good at solving problems, and being really convinced
that Hope's character was an angelic
one, he soon ceased to perplex himself, murmuring
with a sigh : ' Well, it can't make much
odds to me, anyhow ; I have done for myself
completely and finally, and I don't suppose
she will ever forgive me. Even if she loved
me as I love her, she would die before she
would admit it.'

Then he returned to Carry's letter, which
he had left at the end of a page; and the
first words that met his eye, on turning over
the next one, caused him to give alow whistle.
As I am doing no good here,' she continued.

and as I am bored beyond all power of
words to describe, I have decided on trying
the effect of a little chance. There is nothing
in the world that I abhor quite so much as
yachting ; yet I am going to yacht. The
Fortescue have invited me to go on a cruise
to the west coast of Scotland with them, and
I am to join them at Kingstown in a day or
two. I had not the courage to <?o all the
way from Southampton in the yacht, as they
wanted me to do. You must come on board
and see us, and tell us how you are getting
on in Paddyland. The name of the yacht is
the Flying Scud — painfully suggestive ; but
I presume that she will at least refrain from
flying and scudding while she is in Kingstown
Harbour.'

Bertie felt that the Fates were closing in
upon ]him. Duty and indebtedness ; an angry
and determined father ; duns not less angry
and determined ; a lady whose determination
yielded in nothing to theirs, although as yet
she did not appear to be angry — these, surely,
formed an encircling host powerful enough to

make any harassed young man yield at discretion
and say : ' Have it your own way,
then ! ' Bertie was very much disposed to
adopt that inglorious course. After all, it
was nothing but wdiat he had known and
declared to be inevitable for a long time past.
Yet, when he thought of Hope, and pictured
to himself the look of disdain which would
come over her face on hearing that he had
engaged himself to her sister-in-law, he exclaimed
aloud, 'No: hang it! I can't. I'd
rather chuck up everything and emigrate to
New Zealand or some such place. Other
fellows have done it, and why shouldn't I ?
Though, as the governor so amiably remarks,
manual labour is not exactly the kind of thing
that I am likely to enjoy.'

He smiled slightly, looking down at his
hands. They were well-shaped, strong little
hands, and could do all that their owner
desired of them with a gun or a cricket-bat
or a pair of sculls ; but whether they could
be employed with success upon ploughs and
spades was another question. In his heart of

hearts Bertie probably knew very well that he
would never put them to any such use ; but
for the next few clays — until the Fli/im/ Scud
came into harbour, in fact — he amused himself
with speculating upon the prospects of a
colonial career, and even went so far as to
buy two or three books relating to New
Zealand and glance through their pages. Then,
one morning, a note reached him from Mrs.
Fortescue, a lady with whom he was well
acquainted, asking him to lunch on board,
and casually mentioning that his ' friend Miss
Herbert ' had arrived. An excuse might
have been invented without difficulty ; but
it was less troublesome to accept ; and when
Bertie had more than one course open to him,
he invariably and upon principle chose the
least troublesome.

The Flying Scud was a large schooner of
nearly three hundred tons, and when Captain
Cunningham stepped on to her deck, he found
himself surrounded by quite a considerable
group of friends, of idiom Carry, in a neat
yachting costume, was one. They were very

glad to see him, for lie was universally liked,
and he, too, was glad to see them and hear
what they had to tell him about the world,
from which he considered himself to be cutoff;
so that in a very short time the memory
of his various troubles faded away from his
mind. It was only when his eyes met Carry's,
as they did from time to time, that a vague
feeling of apprehension came over him.

After luncheon the company dispersed
with some suddenness. The owner of the
yacht went ashore, taking the greater part of
his guests with him ; others went out fishing ;
thus it came to pass that Bertie, who was reclining
in a wicker chair beneath the awning
and enjoying a cigarette, looked round and
discovered that his only companions were
Mrs. Fortescue and Miss Herbert.

Now, Captain Cunningham,' said the
former, ' you can't be allowed to be lazy any
longer. Do you understand sailing a boat ? '

Of course I do,' answered Bertie.

Then you shall take us out in the cutter.
There is just enough breeze to fill the sail,

and the water is smooth enough even for
Carry.'

Bertie said that would be very jolly ; but
he was not quite so sure about the jollity of
it when the two ladies, who had gone below
to make some change in their dress, reappeared,
and dien Mrs. Fortescue announced
that, after all, she had decided to remain onboard,
having rather a headache and being
afraid of the sun. ' I daresay you can be
trusted not to drown Carry or yourself,' she
added.

The truth was that Mrs. Fortescue, like a
good many other well-meaning persons, wished
to do something towards brins^ino^ about the

O (D CD

engagement which had been hanging fire for
so long.

Carry Herbert was a proud woman by
nature, and it was not without a sense of
humiliation that she seated herself in the
centre-board cutter which had been brought
alongside, while Bertie took the tiller. Not
for the first time, she asked herself whether
any subsequent happiness could quite repay

her for this persistent hunting down of an
unwilhni;^ victim. Had she not felt sure that
the victim must eventually fall a prey to some
well-dowered lady, she would have been
almost inclined to abandon the pursuit ; but
that gave her a sort of justification. 'He will
never care much for anybody,' she sometimes
thought (for she was not in the least blind to
his defects) ; ' and I believe he is fond of me,
after a fashion.' But just now a fit of compunction
and discouragement was upon her,
so that she leant over the gunwale, resting her
chin upon her hand and half turning her back
towards her companion, who, for his part,
could find nothing particular to say.

A very light breeze blew from the land
and tempered the heat of the sun. The boat
glided gently seaward before it, leaving a long
track upon the smooth water, and for sometime
neither of its occupants uttered a word.
They were sufficiently intimate to remain
silent, if it so pleased them ; sufficiently intimate
also to understand one another without
explicit speech ; and so dien Carry at length

turned round and said ' Well ? ' there was no
need for her to add anything to that curt
interrogation.

It isn't well at all answered Bertie ; ' it's
about as far from being well as it can be.'

What is wrong now ? '

Oh, the old thing— bills.'

Which kind of bills ? '

Both kinds. The finish isn't far off now.
I give myself six months more — unless Dutch
Oven wins the Leger, in which case it is just
wildly possible that I might hold out for
another year.'

And then ? '

'And then I shall go off to New Zealand,
if the governor will consent to pay my passage.
Or perhaps I'll drive a hansom cab — I don't
know. Will you give me an occasional half-crown
fare during the season ? '

Carry made no reply. She had shifted
her position, and was gazing at the beautiful
Bay of Dublin astern, and the shipping in the
harbour, and the great mail-steamer from
Holyhead, which had just come in. Iter

profile was turned towards Bertie — a very
handsome, high-bred profile. Just now it wore
a somewhat softer and sadder expression than
usual, and, as he looked at it, he felt a
little sorry and a little ashamed. Poor Carry !
he certainly had not treated her well. There
had been a time when the idea of marrying
her had been by no means repugnant to him,
and even now — but then the vision of another
face seemed to rise between him and her, and
he said to himself, No, by Jove ! he couldn't
do it. How extraordinary it was that she
should never have suspected the truth ! It
was partly curiosity, partly perversity that
moved him to say : ' Tell me about Mrs. Herbert.
Is she really unhappy at being parted from that
long-legged, unromantic brother of yours ? '

Oh, yes,' answered Carry, absently. ' Why
not?'

Only because she never seemed to me to
be much interested in him. When I was at
Farndon they were always apart all day long.'

I suppose that was because she saw that
he didn't want her. Most women can conceal

their feelings, and all women ought to be able
to do so.'

The last words were spoken with an
accent of bitterness which Bertie understood.
He relapsed into silence once more, not being
yet prepared to say what he knew that he
was almost bound to say. Would it be possible
for him, he wondered, to escape from
that boat without having finally committed
himself? If he had cared to fathom his
feelings, he would perhaps have discovered
that what he really wanted was to be so
placed as that this should not be possible.
He would be glad afterwards to be able to
make excuses for himself — to say : ' Well, I
couldn't help it ; no fellow could have got
out of such a situation without proposing.'

Thus he waited upon events, drifting, as
the boat drifted dien the breeze died away
and the sail flapped against the mast. Carry
seemed to be not less devoid of definite purpose
than he. She made a remark from time to
time, to which he responded, but for the most
part they held their peace. It has already

been said that they knew one another well
enough to exchange thoughts with a minimum
of speech. The two hands whom they had
brought with them from the yacht were half
asleep in the bows, and were no restraint
upon such conversation as passed between
them. Nor did the presence of these drowsy
sailors prevent Carry from saying something
at last which she certainly would not have
liked them or anyone else to overhear. They
had now been a long time in the boat, and
were beating back towards the harbour against
a westerly wind which had freshened somewhat.
Without any introductory observations.
Carry reverted to the subject upon which she
had been meditating the whole afternoon.

You can't go on like this,' she said. ' You
can't always spot the winners of races '

One in twenty is about my average,'
interjected Bertie.

And there is not the remotest chance
that Dutch Oven will win the Leger. Besides,
if she did, that would mean no more than
jstavimj^ olF rain for another twelvemonth.

The only plan is to free yourself from debt
and make a fresh start. I want you to let
me provide you with the means of doing this.
Don't interrupt, please ; I am quite aware
that one isn't allowed to do that sort of thing
for one's friends ; but mine is a rather exceptional
case. The simple truth is that I
have a great deal more money than I can
possibly spend, and you couldn't do me a
greater kindness than by letting me help you.
I could give you 5,000/., or even double that,
tomorrow, and nobody would be any the
wiser. That's the point of it, you see ; nobody
would ever know.'

She spoke in a low, eager voice, and the
young man was really touched by her disinterestedness,
which he could not question.
Still, there was only one answer to be made.

You are very kind and very generous,'
he said, ' and I am as grateful to you as if it
were possible for me to accept your offer.
But you must see that it is utterly impossible.
No man can take money from a woman,
unless — except '

Vol. III. F

The matter is one between ourselves
lie interrupted quickly. ' I see no necessity
for conditions. Did you think that I wanted
to impose any upon you ? '

I am sure you didn't,' answered Bertie.
And then, after a pause : ' But the conditions
exist, all the same.'

If he had really wished to find himself ina
position from which retreat without an offer
of marriage would be impracticable, he should
have been satisfied now ; and if poor Carry
had ever doubted that he would like her
money well enough, but was not equally
ambitious to become possessed of her person,
his present hesitation must have removed all
doubt from her mind. She was mortified,
but her magnanimity did not desert hei*.

We won't say any more about it now,'
she resumed presently. ' Think it over, and
let me know tomorrow or next day what you
decide. I only ask you to believe that it will
be a true act of friendship on your part to let
me be of use to you, and that, if you do, I
shall never dream of thinking that I have

laid you under an obligation of any sort or
kind.'

Bertie murmured some confused words of
thanks. He was thoroughly ashamed of himself
for taking advantage of this delay, but he
did take advantage of it, notwithstanding.
Everybody knows the consequences of craning
at a fence or pausing upon the point of taking
a header. If the thing is not done at once,
it will most probably never be done at all,
and Bertie lead shivered upon the brink so
long that he was ready to catch at any excuse
for shivering a little longer. He would, of
course, have to make his proposal in due form
on the morrow, and his only reason for not
making it immediately was that tomorrow
was tomorrow. A poor reason enough ; but
it served its purpose.

Bertie did not linger on board the yacht
after he had restored Miss Herbert, safe and
sound, to Mrs. Fortescue's care, and had been
discreetly rallied by that lady upon the length
of time that he had been absent. He ascertained
that the Flying Scud would not sail

p 2

for a couple of days, and, having promised to
call again, took bis leave.

So it's all settled,' he mused, when he
had been put on shore and was waiting at the
station for a train to take him to Westward
Eow. ' At least, it will be before I am twenty-four
hours older, and I only wish the twenty-four
hours were past ! I ought to have done
it this afternoon, but I couldn't, somehow.
It was awfully good of her to offer me that
money, and she meant what she said, too.
Upon my word, she's a long way too good forme,
and if I could only forget Hope — but
the worst of it is that I shall never do that,
and I shall never dare to look her in the
face again either. Suppose anything should
happen to Herbert out in America — no, dash
it all ! I won't think about such things ; I'll
think about Carry. I wonder whether I shall
have to tell her that I love her, and I wonder
whether she will believe me, if I do. Poor
Carry ! Poor me, too, if you come to that !
Well, it's an ill wind that blows nobody any
good, and I suppose the governor will dance a

fandango when he hears the news. So will
old Levison ; and so will the butcher and the
baker and the candlestick-maker. What a
consolation it will be to make so many deserving
people happy ! '

His soliloquy was interrupted by a tap on
the shoulder, and, wheeling round, he became
aware of a young brother-officer whose
ordinarily impassive countenance had an expression
of modified joy and excitement.
Well,' said Bertie, rather crossly, ' what's up
with you ? You look as if you had discovered
something to be cheerful about in this beastly
hole.'

'I'm going to leave this beastly hole,'
answered the other. ' Haven't you heard ?
We're ordered off to Egypt to join Wolsey's
expedition.'

Bertie drew a long breath. ' There's a
fate about this,' he muttered. ' Providence
doesn't mean the event to come off, that's
certain. First I break my leg ; then what the
governor calls an " entanglement " arises ; and
now I am sent away to chastise Arabs the

Blest — may his shadow never be less ! One
more chance for me — lots more chances !
Who can tell what may not happen before I
come back ? Who knows whether I shall come
back at all ? '

I can't hear a word you say,' interrupted
his conq^ anion.

I wasn't talking to you, my dear fellow,'
answered Bertie ; ' but you're a good sort of
chap in your way, and you've brought me
good news. I won't fail to drink your health
the moment I get within reach of decent
liquor.'

And so, on the following day. Carry
waited for Captain Cunningham in vain ; but
the evening post brought her the subjoined
brief note : —

'My dear Miss Herbert, — I daresay you
won't have been surprised at my not turning
up this afternoon ; I Iiare such a heap of
things to do. You will have heard that weare
to sail for Egypt immediately. It will
be awfully hot, I expect ; but one mustn't

grumble at trifles. I hope you will have a
pleasant cruise. You must write and tell me
about it, and I'll send you a graphic account
of our first engagement in return. Very
sorry I couldn't see you to say good-bye ; but
we shall meet again before next year most
likely, unless I get knocked over.

Yours very sincerely,

'B.C.

I can't tell you how grateful I feel to you
for what you said yesterday. I did think it
over, as you told me ; but of course I couldn't
say yes to such an offer. Nobody could.
Thank you a thousand times for making it,
though.'

CHAPTEE Xxxiv

QUIET TIME.

The old hypothesis that of every pair of
lovers there is one who loves and one who
submits to be loved has often suggested an
inquiry as to which of the two lots is the
more desirable ; but this would not for a
moment have presented itself in the light of
a problem to Hope, who soon got the better
of the access of despair which had come upon
her in the first hour of lier abandonment.
She had no doubt at all that it was a happier
fate to love an indifferent husband than to bean
indifferent wife ; perhaps, too — since her
nature was so sanguine — she may sometimes
have indulged in dreams of a good time
coming, when Dick should be indifferent no
longer. In any case, it was a joy to her to be

able to think of him in the way that slice had
always unconsciously wished to think and had
as unconsciously resisted ; it was a joy to her
to make a hero of him, to absolve him from
all blame, to forgive him freely for Having
forsaken her and spoken of their marriage asa
mistake. She had, it is true, a momentary
difficulty when she remembered his suspicions
of her with regard to Bertie Cunningham and
his implied disbelief of her word upon the
subject ; but she swallowed that down with
the rest. She could not grudge anything to
those whom she loved, and if Dick had done
her a much more grievous wrong, she would
have found pleasure in pardoning him.
Therefore she was far from being altogether
miserable, in spite of the long face which
Carry had accused her of wearing : only her
spirits were depressed, and she allowed her
mind to dwell more than was good for her
upon the perils of the ocean, and upon wild
Indians and bears and frost-bites and rattlesnakes.


When Carry, somewhat unexpectedly, took

her departure, Hope, glad to be left to her
own devices, inaugurated the humdrum course
of life which she purposed to lead until her
husband's return. Solitude was much more
agreeable to her than society, and she neither
desired nor intended to invite anyone to stay
with her. One guest, however, thought fit to
invite himself. This was Mr. Lefroy, who
wrote to ask whether his niece would take
him in for a night on his way from home to
some place in the Eastern counties, where
he had to attend a Conservative gathering.
Hope could only answer that he would be
most welcome, and was thankful that he was
not going to bring his better half with him.
Lady Jane had been greatly startled by the
intelligence of Dick's flight for America.
Hope had purposely abstained from letting
her know of it until it was already an
accomplished fact, and her ladyship's reply,
though guardedly expressed, had borne the
impress of consternation in every line. She
evidently thought that there had been a
quarrel, and it was quite clear that she had

now despatched Mx. Lefroy to inquire into
and report upon the causes of the same.
This was tiresome ; but it was nothing more
than Hope had anticipated, and she was prepared
with answers to any questions that
might be put to her.

Mr. Lefroy, when a young man, had
thought of entering the Diplomatic service,
and it is almost a pity that his ample means
and love of rural pursuits caused him to give
up the idea ; for he possessed many of the
qualities which go to make a successful diplomatist
of the Britannic variety. He had
plenty of common sense ; he knew how to
stick to a point and to make his interlocutor
do the same ; he was not easily humbugged,
and his good-humoured heartiness was calculated
to disarm suspicion. Personally, he was
a good deal more alarmed about his niece's
domestic affairs than Lady Jane was, and considered
that matters had taken a very serious
turn indeed. His impression of Hope was
what he had proclaimed it to be on her
wedding-day : he thought that she required

extremely careful driving, and he had never
felt sure that Dick Herbert was the man
to keep her head straight. He believed her
capable of great acts of folly — so much so,
indeed, that to hear of her elopement with
Bertie Cunningham would not have surprised
him.

Therefore it was with an anxious heart,
though with a smiling and open countenance,
that he accosted her on his arrival at
Farndoi;!, and took note of a certain change in
her appearance which was not satisfactory to
him. ' Pale cheeks, features a little drawn
and sharp — that's worry,' he thought to himself.
' But what the deuce does that queer
sort of subdued glow in her eyes mean ?
I'm afraid I know only too well what it
means. I've seen it in other people's eyes
before now.'

It was really very creditable to him that
he should have detected this phenomenon,
which would have escaped the notice of nine
observers out of ten ; and that it could be due
to Hope's tardy discovery that she was in

love with her husband was what no diplomatist,
however acute, could be expected to
surmise.

Mr. Lefroy was very diplomatic. He
neither rushed into his subject nor ostentatiously
avoided it, but remarked : ' So that
rascal Dick is off after the big game again,
eh ? You can't keep him from it, any more
than you can keep a terrier from poaching.
Ah, well ! I wish I was young enough to take
a turn at the wapiti myself.' After which he
glided airily away to other topics of conversation.
He fully intended to speak plainly, for
he deemed that this was a case in which plain
speaking would be of service ; but he proposed
to put OiT what he had to say until the
last thing at night, knowing that emphatic
words are apt to lose much of their force
unless they are followed up by an exit. But
when he was sitting with Hope in the 
after dinner, and when the evening
paper, which had just arrived, was handed to
him, his eye lighted upon a paragraph which
not only caused him to modify his programme,

but clreAV from him a fervent ejaculation of
The Lord be praised ! '

Hope looked up from her work interrogatively.
' Why ? ' she asked.

Mr. Lefroy did not reply 'Because the
sixth battalion of the Scots Guards are under
orders for Egypt,' but said, somewhat hastily :
I am rejoicing over the discomfiture of this
pious Ministry, which is about to lay itself
open to further charges of bloodguiltiness.
They will be driven into annexation, you'll
see : and that is satisfactory, because Egypt
must belong to England eventually ; but they
will also have to spend a good many millions
of the public money, and then up will go the
income-tax and out will go the Government,
which will be more satisfactory still. We
may hope to get rid of them now before
they bring in their abominable County
Franchise Bill.'

But isn't the County Franchise Bill one
of the things which are bound to come
eventually ? ' asked Hope.

Very likely ; and we are all bound to die

eventually ; but I take it that none of us
wants to hasten that event. I should like to
destroy Radicalism altogether, but that is impossible
; so I am thankful for any opportunity
that occurs of scorching it. Believe me, the
golden rule in politics and in life is to make
the best of things.'

You say that as if you intended the rule
to apply specially to me,' observed Hope.

I have not the slightest objection to
admitting that such was my intention. I
think you are discontented with your lot, and
I think you might be worse off — a great deal
worse off.'

Hope was not sure that she quite understood
his drift ; but she knew that he would
not have come to Farndon to protest against
mere discontent on her part, so she led him
on by saying : ' I should have thought that
it was only right and proper for a wife to be
discontented when her husband leaves her fora
year.'

Oh, well, I agree with you there ; I don't
think Herbert cuizht to have done it. But

candidly now, Hope — are you any more contented
when he is at home ? '

Hope laid down her work and looked her
uncle in the face calmly : ' What is it that
you are afraid of my doing ? ' she asked.

Mr. Lefroy hesitated and then laughed a
little. 'Perhaps I had better tell you,' he
said. ' I am not afraid of your doing anything
wrong ' (this was not quite strictly true,
but diplomatists must be courteous and are
absolved by common consent from absolute
veracity), ' only I am sometimes afraid — and
so is your aunt — that you may be inclined to
look in the wrong direction for consolation.
I quite allow that it is hard lines upon a
woman that, because she is young and good-looking,
she should be debarred from friendships
with men who — who — in short, who
resemble her in those particulars ; but we
live in a censorious world, and, as I say, we
must make the best of it. Now, 3^oung
Cunningham '

Captain Cunningham is not a friend of
mine,' interrupted Hope

'Eh?'

He is not a friend of mine. I liked him
at first ; but I have not found him improve
upon acquaintance, and you may tell Aunt
Jane that he certainly will not be invited to
stay here during Dick's absence. I suppose
that was what you were afraid of, was it
not ? '

Perhaps it had been ; but as Bertie would
probably be employed for some time to come
in supporting the dignity and independence
of the Khedive, that cause for alarm no looser
existed. Therefore Mr. Lefroy replied : ' Not
exactly. Your aunt, I think, would rather
wish to caution you against forming intimacies
with any young men just at present.'

Then tell her that she shall be obeyed.
And you may add, if you like, that I am not
nearly so discontented with my lot as you and
she imagine. Now are you satisfied ? '

Mr. Lefroy stroked his chin meditatively.
What he was thinking was : 'If it isn't
Cunningham, who the deuce is it? It must
be somebody.' But as he could not say this

Vol. III. G

he resumed presently : ' I really am quite
ashamed of being so inquisitorial, but would
you mind telling me one thing? What did
Herbert go away for ? '

To shoot wapiti, apparently.'

Oh yes, apparently, only nobody is likely
to believe it. Now, Hope, don't you know
that he would come back at once, if you
wrote and asked him ? '

'I most certainly do not know anything
of the kind — or I would write.'

'You might try the experiment, anyhow.'


No,' answered Hope, with a slight smile,
I won't do that ; but I will promise to form
no new friendships while he is away, if that
will do as well. The moment that you think
I am becoming too intimate with anybody
you will only have to tell me so, and that
person shall be dropped. Can I say more ? '

Mr. Lefroy was fain to admit that she
could not. He professed himself satisfied and
left the next morning, after taking an affectionate
farewell of his niece, and extorting

from her a somewhat reluctant promise to
pay a long visit to Helston in a few weeks'
time. Nevertheless, he was not satisfied, and
as he drove down to the station lie muttered
to himself : ' All very fine ; but what about
that queer light in her eyes? If she isn't
in love with somebody I will eat my hat,
that's all ! '

Fortunately, Hope was unconscious of
there being anything remarkable in the appearance
of her eyes at this time ; for, had
she guessed the alarming nature of their
eloquence, she would doubtless have bought
herself a pair of blue spectacles at once. It
was, indeed, rather bad luck for her that they
should already have betrayed her secret to
two persons and that each of these persons
should have misinterpreted it. Mr. Lefroy, as
we have seen, was puzzled, being at a loss to
conjecture who was responsible for the change
that had come over his niece ; but no such
uncertainty existed in the mind of Jacob
Stiles. Jacob, it is needless to say, had reflected
over that little scene in the garden,

when Hope lead torn up Captain Cunningham's
letter, and lead drawn his own conclusions,
which were at least plausible. It was evident,
Jacob thought, that Cunningham had gone too
far — had either avowed his love or had hinted
at it, and had thereby offended Hope ; but it
was just as evident that she had subsequently-read
his letter. Perhaps she had even answered
it. The danger of being so clever at
induction and deduction as Jacob was is the
self-confidence apt to be engendered by that
facility, and the pr oneness which is often
noticeable in its possessors to the building up
of elaborate theories upon what, after all, is
only an assumption. The writings of certain
wise men and philosophers seem to be a little
marred by this defect, which, in their case, is
known as the scientific habit of mind. Jacob,
having formed his theory, had no difficulty
in making Hope's behaviour fit in with and
support it. Her grief at parting with her
husband was easily explained ; for of course
she wished to do her duty to him, and he washer
natural protector, and she dreaded the

temptations which could not but derive additional
strength from his absence. Nor was
there much doubt as to what the sort of quiet,
happy melancholy which had since taken
possession of her meant. To love and to know
herself loved in return must give her happiness
of a certain kind, and to be delivered
from the presence of a man whom she did not
love must also afford her a certain kind of
relief.

These conclusions were not the less readily
accepted by Jacob because they were distasteful
to him personally He did not consider
Cunningham in any way worthy of Hope ;
he had no affection for that gay youth, and
he certainly had once had a strong affection
for Dick. The latter feeling was, however,
dead and gone — killed (so he told himself) by
the utter selfishness of the man. For a Ions:
time he had been doubtful whether he loved
or hated his benefactor ; but he thought that
he knew now. Surely he had a right to hate
him ! Was not hatred the natural result of
the careless contempt with which Dick had

treated him ever since that unhappy episode
of the forged cheque ? — a contempt which all
these years of steady good conduct had not
availed to lessen one whit. And again, does
not a selfish man deserve to be hated ? Jacob
had succeeded in persuading himself that
selfishness was the key-note to Dick's character.
The good nature, the open-mindedness
that cost him so little — what were they but
the selfishness which likes to be surrounded
by smiling faces ? That habit of saying exactly
what he thought to and of his neighbours,
which had earned him a name for honesty —
what was it but the selfishness which cannot
be troubled to consider the feelings of others ?
And his behaviour to his wife ! His open
neglect of her ; his desertion of her for the
sake of gratifying a mere whim ; his utter
indifference as to what the world would say
of such a proceeding ! When Jacob thought
of these things his face grew dark and he
clenched his fists. He had a way of muttering
to himself, when alone, and occasionally
it happened to him to mutter things

wliicli, if they had been heard and repeated,
might have justified a magistrate in binding
him over to keep the peace.

But, notwithstanding all this mental disturbance,
Jacob spent many happy hours at
this time — so many that, looking back upon
it afterwards, he felt sure that he had never
been as happy before and had little chance of
ever being as happy again. Every day Hope
came up to his studio to watch him at work
and receive the instructions which he was
only too delighted to bestow upon her ; and
although the summer was not a particularly
fine one (for there had been a fine summer
only four years back, and consequently
another could not be expected for a longtime
to come), there were few afternoons so
rainy as to prevent this couple from sallying
forth together on foot or on horseback to
study Nature under all her infinitely varied
aspects.

Jacob,' Hope would say (she had at last
given up calling him Mr. Stiles), ' I shall want
you to take me up to Ascot Heath this afternoon,

so if you have work to do, you must
neglect it.' And lie prepared with joy to
neglect his work accordingly.

She treated him as a friend, but nevertheless
issued her behests to him very much after
the fashion of a gracious sovereign, having,
indeed, discovered that he liked nothing so
much as being ordered about by her. It was
almost exclusively of art that they spoke
during their walks and rides. Once or twice
Hope hed tried to make her companion talk
about Dick ; but the effect lead always been
to reduce him to a state of such obstinate
taciturnity that she gave it up. Besides, his
chief value as a conversationalist lay in his
thorough knowledge of his craft and his readiness
to impart what he knew. He had the
true artist's eye for detail ; no effect of light
and shade, no peculiarity of outline, escaped
him. He showed her a thousand things which
she would never have seen, but for him ; also
he taught her a smattering of anatomy,
making her watch the movements of his horse,
as he rode beside her, and pointing out to her

the power and grace of that most beautiful of
animals. What surprised her was that, withall
his appreciation of form and colour and all
his mastery of the technicalities of his art, he
had so little enthusiasm for it and so little
ambition for himself. ' What should I do
with ambition ? ' he said one day, in answer
to a reproach of hers on this score. ' It
would be a very awkward incumbrance to me,
and I am much better without it. A barn-door
fowl would look extremely silly if he
tried to fly like an eagle, and if a dog who is
chained to his kennel all day doesn't want to
run loose, he is so far a lucky dog.'

'But I don't see the parallel,' objected
Hope.

However, he did not explain it. 'I am
glad that I can paint,' he resumed, presently.
I have gained by painting all that I ever
expected or wished to gain — a sort of independence,
I mean. Of course it is only a sort
of independence ; but it is better than none.
As for fame, I don't know of any possible
good that that could do me.'

'Yet it is something, surely, to be distinguished
above the common herd.'

To other men it might be ; to me there
is no satisfaction in being distinguished — if I
am distinguished. For years my one ambition
was to be able to pay a certain debt.
I suppose I may say that I have done that
now, as far as the thing can be done ; only,
unluckily, it can't be done in full.' His
face grew sombre, and then lightened a little
as he looked up at Hope. ' I wish I could
pay my debt to you Mrs. Herbert ! ' he
exclaimed.

'But you don't owe me anything,' said
Hope.

Ah, don't say that ! No one has ever
been one-hundredth part as good and kind tome
as you have been, and there is nothing
that I wish for so much as to be able to make
some return to you, however small.'

It is by no means a small thing that you
are giving up so much of your valuable time
to teaching a slow pupil,' said Hope.

But Jacob smiled and shook his head.

That was not the sort of return that he
wanted to make. He would have liked to
sacrifice himself in some way for her — to lay
the life which he set so little store by at her
feet. It was true that he had made one
small sacrifice for her sake by remaining at
Farndon that summer, for he had intended to
go abroad and visit the great picture-galleries
which were known to him only by hearsay ;
but, upon reflection, he perceived that this
plan had been abandoned rather for his own
satisfaction than for hers.

It seems to me, Jacob,' said Hope, after
a time, ' that you ought to be very happy
and that you are not happy at all. Why is
that?'

Did you not ask me the same question
once before ? And I told you that I would
answer you some day. Perhaps, if you care
to listen to a vulgar, unpleasant story, I will
answer you — some day. But, speaking generally,
I don't think it is possible to be happy
when one is dependent. The one great secret
of happiness is to owe no man anything.'

Hope mused awhile over this authoritative
dictum. Happiness and the means of attaining
it are not so easily defined ; and it
did not appear to her that she had as yet got
to the root of the matter, though she had
had the advantage of hearing the opinion of
various persons upon it. ' Have an occupation
to fall back upon,' said Tristram.
Understand your position clearly,' said Dick.
Get hold of money, somehow or other,' said
Bertie Cunningham. ' Make the best of things,
and avoid friction,' said Mr. Lefroy. And
Jacob, it seemed, desired only the negative
blessing of having nothing to be grateful for.
They all had their theories ; so that there was
no reason why she should not set up hers,
which was that the only thing worth living
for is love. And, although this may have
a somewhat lackadaisical soit, it is not
so absolutely certain that she was mistaken.

CHAPTEE XXXV.

A TREATY OF PEACE.

Dick Herbert was a very well-known man,
and as for the Leprous, their acquaintances
Avere as the sands of the sea-shore in number.
It was scarcely to be supposed, therefore, that
Hope's temporary abandonment within so
short a time of her marriage should escape
remark, or fail to be accounted for in various
fashions more or less starting. As a matter
of fact, she and her husband and the alleged
quarrel that lead taken place between them
were a good deal discussed that autumn by
all who knew them, as well as by many who
did not, and the split in the Herbert household
formed a welcome alternative subject of
conversation to the Egyptian rebellion. As
nobody really understood the causes of either

event, much nonsense was talked about both,
and it is to be feared that our heroine's
character met with little more justice or
mercy than that of poor Achmet Arabs.
Many false things and many silly things
were said about her, and Lady Jane was
sorely afflicted thereby ; but to Hope herself
these did not give a moment of uneasiness,
for the capital reason that she never heard
of them. The neighbours who called upon
her from time to time did not know her well
enough to report gossip to her or to cross-examine
her, though they were always very
careful to ask what was the latest news of Mr.
Herbert, and what was his real destination,
and when he might be expected home again.

Hope could not have done much towards
gratifying their curiosity, even had she been
so minded. In due course of time a telegram
reached her, announcing Dick's safe arrival at
New York ; ten days later she received a
letter, written apparently in excellent spirits
and filled with an account of the incidents
of the voyage ; shortly after which came a

second letter, in which Dick informed her
that he was upon the point of starting for
the West, that the yacht would return to
England immediately, and that he had intrusted
to the skipper a small parcel which
he hoped would reach her safely. ' Only a
sample of New York jewellery ; some of
their work here isn't bad. I saw this thinking
a shop-window, and I remembered your
saying once that you liked cats-eyes ; so I
thought I would buy it for you.' The
missive was more like that of a brother to his
sister than of a husband to his wife ; but it
satisfied Hope, who read it through a great
many times, and who was glad that Dick had
remembered her fancy for one stone more
than another.

Jacob lingered on ; and what with painting,
walking, and riding, the days slipped away
quickly enough. From the household cares
which afford occupation to most women Hoj)e
was relieved by the housekeeper, an imposing
person with whom she neither dared nor
desired to interfere ; but in a large establishment

there are always plenty of interests, and
Hope had endeared herself to the people
about the place. Gardeners, housekeepers,
and so forth, welcomed her approach, as did
also their numerous progeny, for whom she
was in the habit of purchasing a supply of
toys and sugar plums every time that she drove
into Windsor. She liked to potter about with
these somewhat dull-witted folks, to listen to
the exhaustive descriptions that they were
wont tp give her of their ailments, and to
make the older ones among them repeat
over and over again certain anecdotes about
Master Dick ' and the audacious deeds of

his boyhood.

When Eoberts, the captain of the yacht,
wrote to report his arrival at Portsmouth
and his intention of forwarding by post the
parcel committed to his care, she sent him
a long telegram, begging him to run no such
risk, but to come to Farndon himself and
deliver the packet into her own hands. The
goodhumoured-looking, rosy-cheeked skipper,
who may have had a sailor's eye for female

loveliness, stared hard at his new mistress,
and expressed a hope that they would have
her on board when they made their next
cruise. Sea-sickness, he assured her, was
nothing when you were used to it ; both Mr.
Herbert and the other gentleman had been a
bit queer the first day out, and had been all
the better for it. Then Hope showed him
the cat's-eye pendant, with its glittering circle
of diamonds, and lie observed that it must
have cost a power of money. ' The governor
was terrible particular about it, to be sure ! '
]ie added. ' Says he, " H the yacht goes to
the bottom and you have to take to your
boats, you must save that, whatever you leave
behind you. I won't have Mrs. Herbert
disappointed," he says.'

It seems possible that Eoberts may have
been drawing a little upon this imagination
here ; but it was worth while telling a white
lie to see Hope's face break out into smiles and
dimples. He and she became great friends ;
only he was unable to give her the information
which she had secretly hoped for. Mr.

Vol. hi. H

Herbert, it appeared, had said nothing about
the date of his return ; but the yacht was to
be laid up, and Eoberts had heard the other
gentleman express a decided preference for
mail steamers as a means of transit across the
ocean. ' And there's no denying but they'll
get home all the sooner that way, do you see,
ma'am. Which is what the governor '11 wish,
I make no doubt.'

This was the sort of tone which all Hope's
dependents thought fit to adopt. Whatever
their private opinion may have been, they
always spoke as if it must be a matter of
course that their master was eager to return
to his home and his wife, and when she assured
them that she did not expect to see him again
for nearly a year, they were ready with the
incredulous shake of the head which her
remark invited.

Things isn't as they was in the old days,
when he'd be away for eighteen months or
more at a time,' these optimists would say.
It was kind of lonesome for him then, with
only Miss Carry to keep him company, and she

staying with lier friends as often as not ; but
'tis a very different matter now.'

Perhaps it was rather absurd to be pleased
and consoled by such speeches as these ; but
Hope managed to persuade herself that there
was a grain of truth in them, and she missed
them greatly when at length she had to pay
her promised visit to Helston and encounter
the jeremiads of Lady Jane, who took a desponding
view of the situation which she was
at no pains to conceal from her niece.

It does seem to me that you have mismanaged
matters, Hope,' she said fretfully.
You ought never to have let Dick resume
these wandering ways. Now that he has
broken loose once he is sure to do it again ;
and it is such a mistake for husbands and
wives to begin that kind of thins; ! '

' Dick is not the only married man who
goes on shooting expeditions to America.'
observed Hope.

Oh, my dear, of course there are people
who can do these things and others who can't.
I don't wish to go back upon the past ; but I

H 2

should have thought you would have seen for
yourself that this was a particularly inopportune
time for you and Dick to part. However,
there is not much good in talking about it,
now that the thins is done and can't be undone.'


This was indisputable ; but Lady Jane
continued to talk about it, notwithstanding ;
and Lady Jane's guests showed less tact in
their allusions to Hope's bereavement than
her humbler friends at Farndon had done.
The men were inclined to treat it as a joke
and to chaff her after a mild, tentative fashion,
and one very rude old gentleman went so far
as to say, ' So your husband is off to the
wilds again, I hear, Mrs. Herbert. What is
the attraction ? Does he keep a detachment
of squaws out there, do you think ? I should
not mind the squaws, if I were you, since
they are such a long way off; but I should
draw the line at pappooses. Don't let him
bring any untutored pappooses back with him.'

But of course it was at the hands of the
women that she suffered the most. Some of

them expressed great surprise at the length
of tether which she allowed to her husband,
declaring that they would never have been so
accommodating ; others treated her to a liberal
measure of ironical pity ; most of them had
an air of looking askance at her and wondering
whether it was all right. She perceived that
in some undefined manner she had lost caste.
People who had been very civil and respectful
to her during the season were disposed to
be familiar, not to say impertinent, now ; and
there is often great difficulty in snubbing
impertinent people without descending to
their level. Hope could not help thinking
sometimes that Dick might have foreseen
this as one of the inevitable consequences of
her unprotected condition ; also her spirits
were a little damped by the certainty which
everybody appeared to feel that her husband
would never care to settle down to a domestic
life. After all, these people probably knew
him better than his retainers at Farndon could.
Thus it came to pass that her pillow was not
unfrequently wet with tears. She had postponed

her visit to her relations until the year
was far advanced ; and now, with mistaken
kindness, they insisted upon her remaining
with them over Christmas. And a very cheerless
Christmas she spent in the old home, where
everything was so changed. Dick's letters
had lately become very irregular ; in his last
he had warned her that it mis^ht be a long;
time before he would have an opportunity of
letting her hear from him again ; some amiable
persons were so good as to entertain her with
accounts of snowstorms in the far West, and
of hunting parties which had perished miserably
in those wind swept solitudes. Altogether
it was a dismal time, and it seemed to
her as if it would never come to an end. But
it came to an end at last, as all earthly things
do, both for the patient and the impatient ;
and early in January Hope was permitted to
return to Farndon, where she found Carry,
who had arrived from the north a few days
before.

Carry had been paying a visit of inspection
to her Yorkshire domain, and had had a bad

attack of the blues there, she said. Mrs. Pier-point
had been staying with her, but had now
gone on to Leicestershire, and when others had
been invited to take her price they had all
with one consent begun to make excuse. ' So
I thought I would come here and cheer you
up,' Carry concluded, leaving it to be inferred
that this charitable course had only been
resorted to as a pis-aller.

Hope thanked her, and endeavoured to
look grateful. But it was not very long before
she discovered that the boon of her sister-in-law's
society had not been conferred upon her
wholly and solely from the motive assigned.

Did you hear about poor Captain Cunningham
? ' Carry asked, in the course of the
evening.

I heard that he had been ordered to
Egypt,' answered Hope ; ' I didn't hear of his
having earned any honourable scars there.'

He never had the chance. The Guards
were shamefully treated, and he says he can't
imagine why they were sent there, when any
ordinary hne-regiment might have done the

work that was given to tlieni. All he gained
by the campaign was an attack of fever ; so
that he has been obliged to go home to be
nursed. I suppose,' added Carry, after waiting
in vain for any expression of sympathy
from Hope, ' you wouldn't object to my asking
him to come down here for a few days,
would you ? He does so hate being at home
with that disagreeable old father of his,
and I think a little change might do him
good.'

I should object most decidedly,' answered
Hope, quickly. She was taken by surprise,
or she would hardly have made so ungracious
and peremptory a reply.

What do you mean ? ' asked Carry, her
eyes growing large and angry and her voice
hard. 'Is it to Captain Cunningham individually
that you object, or to my inviting
any friend of mine to come and see me ? '

Hope saw what a stupid blunder she had
made, and tried to retrieve it. ' Of course
any friend of yours would be welcome
lucre,' she said ; ' but I would rather you

didn't ask Captain Cunningham just nov. It
is best not to have — bachelors staying in the
house while we are alone. Dick told me
before he went away that he did not wish it.'

Told you that he didn't wish you to have
bachelors in the house ! ' echoed Carry, incredulously.
' Do you seriously expect me to
believe that Dick ever gave you such instructions
as that?'

Now Dick's instructions had certainly
been less general ; but it was impossible to
give them verhatiin, so Hope contented herself
with repeating, ' I would rather you did not
ask Captain Cunningham just now.'

Why not ? I really should very much
like to knows why not ! Do you imagine that
Captain Cunningham's presence will compromise
you ? That does seem to be rather a
needless alarm. I am sure that his admiration
for you knows no bounds ; but, at the
same time, I hardly think-^ — if you will
pardon my saying so — that he is enamoured
of you. And if you come to talk of bachelors
and the damper of associating with them,

what do you make of sour dear friend Jacob
Stiles ? '

Jacob Stiles is different. Besides, lie is
not in the house,' said Hope, rather feebly.

^o ; but he was in the house for a longtime
after I left ^^ou, and I hear that you and
lie were inseparable. There is no accounting
for tastes, and I am sure I should be the last
person in the world to interfere with yours ;
but surely you might have hit upon some
better excuse for preventing me from gratifying
<t; mine.'

Hope inwardly admitted the justice of the
criticism and endeavoured to profit by it.
Don't you see,' she urged, ' that I am not
the only person who might be compromised
by Captain Cunningham's visit ? '

Oh 1 So this tender solicitude is on my
account, is it ? I am deeply grateful ; but, do
you know, I think I will take my chance of
being compromised.'

'Probably you don't quite mean that.
You would not like him to think — or people
to say — that you were running after him.'

But this appeal to Carry's pride was nota
success. ' How kind you are ! ' she exclaimed,
'and how thoughtful! If ^^ou had
not suggested it, I should never have suspected
that anyone could charge me with
running after Captain Cunningham. How
could I anticipate an accusation so utterly at
variance with the facts ? I have never asked
him to Farndon before, have I ? I didn't
monopolise him for days dien he was here ; I
didn't follow him to Dublin, as soon as he was
sent there ; and I don't keep up a constant
correspondence with him now. Of course
not ! — and nothing? short of a disinterested
warning could have put me on my guard.
The only thing that surprises me is that you
shouldn't have favoured me with your warning
a little sooner.'

Hope hardly knew what answer to make
to this sudden outburst of bitterness, which
seemed to be prompted quite as much by self-contempt
as by anger. She could not pretend
to be unaware that Captain Cunningham
had been openly and persistently run after for

more than a year, and she feared that Carry-must
have some inkhnix of the truth. That
this was not so Carry's next words plainly
showed.

The fact is,' she resumed, dropping
sarcasm and speaking with measured calmness,
' that you have always disliked me, and
that you are only too glad to have a pretext
for cousins me discomfort and inconvenience.
I don't in the least wonder at your disliking
me ; all things considered, I should wonder
much more if you didn't ; but you may as
well give up any idea that you can prevent
me from doing what I choose. I admit that
I can't ask Captain Cunningham here against
your wish ; only there is no reason why I
shouldn't meet him elsewhere. All that I
shall do will be to go up to London, where
he is sure to be before long. You and he and
the rest of the world will draw your own
conclusions, no doubt ; but probably all of
you drew them some time ago.'

There was a cynical frankness in this
speech which touched Hope, though it shocked

lier a little. She could not herself have
spoken or acted m that way ; but she could
understand low a passionate, self-willed
woman might be goaded into doing so, and
she had reasons of her own for S3'nipatliising
with the pangs of unrequited love.

You are wTonc^ in thinking that I wished
to spite you, Carry,' she said, gently ; ' I
should be very glad to help you if I could.
I am afraid I must stick to what I said about
not having Captain Cunningham here — it is a
whim of mine, if you like — but if my going
up to London With you would make things
anv easier, I would do that. We moonlit 2^0
to Eruton Street together, and then you
would have opportunities of seeing him without
— without letting him think that you
came up for that purpose.'

Carry smiled. ' I imagine,' said she, ' that
he has sufficient mother-wit to discover that
much, whether I go to London alone or with
a companion ; but it would certainly be far
pleasant for me to go to Bruton Street than
to an hotel, and I accept your osier gladly.'

She got up and took lier sister-in-law's hand,
looking full into her eyes as she did so.
Shall we make a treaty of peace ? ' she said.
'We are too unlike one another to become
friends ; but I think you mean kindly towards
me, and I am not ungrateful. You are a
stood woman, and Dick is a fool. But that
can't be helped.'

Hope allowed the latter assertion to pass.
I do mean kindly towards you,' she replied,
'and I ^ would have been friends with you
before now if you had allowed me. I will do
the little that I can to bring about what you
wish. But — is he worth it, Carry ? '

Most likely not,' answered Carry ; ' but
that can't be helped either.'

Hope bent over the fire, holding up her
hands to the blaze. It Alas no easy matter to
say what she wanted to say ; but after a while
she made the attempt. ' In one sense,' she
remarked, 'people are always worth what
one thinks them worth ; but then, if one's
idea of them changes when it is too late ? If
one "finds out '

That one lias been married for one's
money ? ' interrupted Carry. ' That discovery
would not come upon me with the shock of
a surprise. You look horrified ; but that is
because your feelings are not so strong as
mine, or because they are more under control,
or better regulated, or something. I
can't say that your horror distresses me
particularly.'

She crossed the room, sat down to the
piano, and played a few bars of a waltz ; but
presently she returned and said, in an altered
voice, ' I am sorry I was rude to you ; I won't
do it again, if I can help it ; but you must
not waste any more breath in trying to make
me ashamed of myself Good Heavens ! do
you suppose I don't know how despicable
I am? If my case had been curable, it
would have been cured long ago, when I first
saw that he didn't care for me. At one time
I thought he did. There ! ' she added, with
another change of tone, ' that will do. I am
not going to be sentimental. Come up to
London with me, like a good soul as you are,

and let us make an end of this. There shall
be an end of it now, one way or the other ; it
has hone on too honos — too lon2^ ! '

The last words were spoken with an accent
of pain which went to Hope's heart. She
was not, and indeed could hardly be, very
fond of her sister-in-law ; but she thought her
worthy of a better fate than that of being
sacrificed to pay Bertie Cunningham's debts,
and she doubted whether even such a
measure of happiness as Carry seemed to
anticipate would be secured to her by the
proposed journey to London. She did not
give Bertie credit for much constancy ; but
he was not devoid of refinement, and surely
it would be very difficult for him to make
his long-deferred offer of marriage to Carry
barely six months after his declaration of unalterable
love for herself. Still, there appeared
to be nothing for it but to move to Bruton
Street ; and to Bruton Street the household
was accordingly transported in the course of a
few days.

By a tacit mutual understanding, the two

ladies said no more to each other about
the cause of their change of quarters. To
the visitors who called upon them as soon as
their arrival in town became known they
represented that they had found it dull in the
country, and that they wanted to do some
shopping and go to the theatres. It was a
week before the visitor to whose coming one
of them had been looking forward with
eagerness and the other with a good deal of
trepidation made his appearance ; and Hope
was thankful that the short winter afternoon
was drawing to a close when he was announced,
so that nobody's features were
clearly discernible in that half-light.

Vol. m.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

TRISTRAM POINTS A MORAL.

Bertie advanced into the room rather slowly.
Most likely lie, as well as Hope, was glad of
the semi-obscurity which only enabled him to
see two shadowy female figures and rendered
his own as shadowy to them. His nerves,
however, were a good deal steadier than
Hope's. He had at all times a tolerable
command over his voice and countenance, and
there was little fear of his betraying embarrassment
in a situation which most men would
have found cruelly embarrassing. He did not
like it ; but he had always known that it would
have to be faced one day or another, and
his great fear now was lest Hope, by refusing
to take his hand, or by some such deplorable
error in judgment, should make her

displeasure manifest to those whom it did
not concern.

But Hope was not quite so foolish as that,
unwilling though she was to do anything
which could lead the young man to suppose
that his offence was condoned. She rose ashe
drew nearer, and the greeting which she
lead been looking forward to with apprehension
ever since her arrival in London was over
in an instant. Bertie did exactly what he
ought to have done. He just touched Hope's
fingers with his, saying, ' How do you do, Mrs.
Herbert?' and at once turned to Carry, by
whom he was welcomed with considerably
greater warmth.

So here you are back again, safe and
sound ! ' she cried. ' I am heartily glad of it,
and now I hope there will be no more
Egyptian campaigns.'

So do I,' returned Bertie, as he dropped
into a chair. ' At least, if there are any more,
I trust we shan't be told off to take part
in them as beasts of burden. If they didn't
mean us to have a look in at the fun, they

I 2

might as well have spared us an unpleasant
voyage and saved me from a pretty smart
attack of typhoid.'

But you are nearly well again now. are
you not ? ' asked Carry.

Oh, yes, I'm by way of being convalescent,
I can't say I feel up to much ; but of
course I shall be all right. I'm like a shabby
old umbrella, you know — no getting rid of
me on any terms. If my life had been of the
smallest value to myself or anybody else, no
doubt I should have died.'

I suppose you say that because you want
to be contradicted,' observed Carry.

exactly so; please contradict me. The
Jews have been kind enough to do that already.
They seem to think I may be worth
something to them — which shows a fine,
healthy faith on their part.'

He went on talking m this way, addressing
all his remarks to Carry, and only showing
that he was not quite comfortable by a somewhat
exaggerated loquacity. By-and-by, when
the servants brought in the tea and the shaded

lamps, Hope saw that lie had grown pale and
thin ; also he seemed to have aged a little, the
boyish roundness of his cheeks having disappeared.
But he had not lost his good looks,
nor, as far as could be judged, had his spirits
suffered. Hope was obliged to speak to him
once or twice while she was pouring out his
tea, and was glad to find that she could do so
with composure. He answered her politely,
but briefly, not raising his eyes to hers, and
Carry continued to ply him with questions
about the war and about his illness. The
presence of a third person was obviously
neither required nor desired, and the third
person was casting about her for some excuse
to withdraw, when the door was thrown open
and Mr. Tristram was announced.

The interruption was a welcome one to
Hope in every way. Lie started up to meet
her old master, who came striding towards her,
pushing the chairs out of his way and upsetting
one of them on his passage. ' Why on
earth do people block up their rooms with
such a lot of useless furniture ? ' he exclaimed.

He made a rapid, ungainly bow to Miss
Herbert, to whom Hope introduced him, and
when Bertie, with bland affability, recalled
himself to the recollection of the famous
artist, frowned and said, not over-courteously
Oh ! — Captain Cunningham, isn't it ? I
thought you were on foreign service.'

Tristram had not had the advantage of
living in so excellent a school for self-repression
as the society to which Bertie was
accustomed ; nor, perhaps, would he have
proved a very apt pupil if he had. When
anything worried him or put him out, the
fact was at once made patent to all who came
within sight or hearing of him, and he was
evidently put out now. He would not sit
down when he was asked, but fidgeted about
between the fireplace and the window, replying
at random to Hope's observations and
every now and then throwing half-impatient,
half-appealing glances at her, the purport of
which she was quite at a loss to understand.
At the end of ten minutes or so he grabbed
his hat, remarking, with a sigh, ' I must be off

now. Perhaps I may have the hick to find
you alone some other day.'

This speech, which was made without any
hovering of the voice, greatly amused Miss
Herbert, avIio rather liked eccentric people.
What is to be done ? ' she asked laucrhinsr.
Shall I lead Captain Cunningham into the
back drawing-room and shut the door ? '

'No,' answered Hope, laughing too; 'Mr.
Tristram shall come down with me to my
sanctum and look over my sketches. I want
him to tell me whether he can detect any
faint signs of improvement.'

Tristram grunted approval to this suggestion,
bade a curt adieu to Miss Herbert and
Captain Cunningham, and followed his hostess
out of the room.

How could you be so rude ! ' exclaimed
Hope, as she preceded him downstairs.

Was I rude ? ' asked Tristram innocently.
I only said I wanted to see you alone ; there
was no harm in that, surely ! Those people
can't have supposed that I came here to see
them.'

Well,' said Hope, showing him into the
little room on the ground-floor which was
affected to her special use, and closing the
door behind her, 'now that we are alone, what
is the matter? You look as if you were
longing to fight with somebody.'

'Do I ?' said Tristram ; ' that is not howl
feel. I suppose the sight of Captain Cunningham
must have exasperated me ; men of his
type always do exasperate me.' He tossed his
hat into, a corner, threw back his long hair,
and began to pace to and fro. ' I thought I
should like to have a talk with you,' he said ;
'I had something to tell you. It may not
interest you ; it is only a story about myself,
and a sufficiently melancholy one ; but I shall
be glad if you will listen to it. You know —
or, on second thoughts, perhaps you don't
know — the kind of fellow that I am. I am
bound to relate my troubles to somebody ; and
all my old friends are dead and gone now.'

I am sure you know that I am interested
in everything that concerns you,' said Hope.

Yes ? Well, you are kind to say so.

Did your father ever tell you anything about
my history ? '

He told me that you had had a great
misfortune once,' answered Hope, hesitatingly;
I don't think he knew much about it.'

Oh, he knew. Everybody — at all events,
everybody in the artistic world — knew about
it at the time ; but it happened many years
ago, and I daresay there are only a few
people now dio still remember the beautiful
Mrs. Tristram, as she used to be called. I was
very proud of her. I used to take her to all
the balls and parties that I could get invitations
for ; though it was as much as I could
do to pay for the hire of a brougham in those
days, and I wouldn't for the world have asked
her to fret into a dirty four-wheeled cab.
Ours was a love-match — an imprudent one,
as I need hardly say. Her people were
strongly opposed to it ; but we took our own
way in spite of them, and were very happy
together for nearly three years. I ought
rather to say that I was happy ; for she
was not, though I never suspected her of

being anything else. The catastrophe that
came to pass in Paris was simply astounding
to me ; it was as if my dearest friend had
suddenly turned upon me and stabbed me to
the heart without any warning or provocation.
I don't want to go into details ; the less
said about it the better. I was working very
hard at that time and I wanted to learn something
from the French, who were our superiors
then, as they are still. So we migrated
across the Channel for a few months, and the
Parisians received us very hospitably. Of
course we got to know a great number of
artists, young and old ; amongst others, a
certain Achille de Thiancourt, a young sprig
of nobility with a waxed moustache and a
pink-and-white face, who came and went. I
never noticed him particularly : certainly it
did not occur to me to draw comparisons
between him and myself. A year or two ago,
while I was strolling through the Salon, somebody
pointed out to me a little shrivelled,
bald-headed old man, with a bit of red ribbon
in his buttonhole — " M. le Baron de Harcourt,

one of the most distinguished ornaments
of our profession " — and asked me whether I
would care to be presented ; but I said that
was unnecessary. He walked with a hip, I
noticed — the effect of the bullet with which I
smashed his knee-cap five-and-twenty years
as^o. I mio'ht have killed him if I had cared
to take his life, for I was a fair shot with a
pistol in my young days ; but I was satisfied
with disabling him. It was impossible to feel
much anger against the poor little wretch ; if it
had not been he, it would have been another.
She as good as told me so in the note which I
found on my table one evening, on my return
from the country, and which informed me that
she had left me and had placed herself under
his protection. She was tired of being treated
as a nonentity, she said.'

Tristram paused for a few moments, knitting
his brows and staring straight before
him. ' Well,' he resumed presently, ' that's the
story : it isn't a very edifying one. The
sequel to it came only the other day, dien a
message reached me from a doctor idiom I

know, telling me that my wife was dying and
was very anxious to see me. I found her in
lodgings scarcely a stone's throw from my own
house ; she had been living there for several
years, it appeared, but had seldom left the
house, being in constant suffering from the inferior
disease which killed her at last. Poor
soul ! she lead had a hard life ; and if sins can
be atoned for by earthly pain (which orthodox
folks say is not the case) hers must have been
expiated, long ago. I haven't the heart to
repeat all that she said to me about herself-she
lived for a time with De Thiancourt and
was miserable, of course, as all women must
be in such a position. Then he began to treat
her badly, and one day he struck her, and she
left him. She found herself thrown upon the
world — young, beautiful, with no friends, no
money, and no reputation — her fate was a foregone
conclusion. She wanted me to say that
I forgave her, and I believe she died more
easily after I had assured her that I could say
that from my heart. But what has painted
me ever since is the reason that she cave for

her desertion of me. It seemed so paltry,
so trivial, so almost laughable. And yet the
more I think of it the more I see that it was a
reason like another. She did not reproach
me with any unkindness ; but she said I had
changed towards her, that I had ceased to pay
her the small attentions to which she was
accustomed, that I never noticed whether she
was well or ill dressed, that I was always preoccupied
and often did not hear her when she
spoke to me. It was quite true. I had my
art to think about ; I hadn't the time to befor
ever aux petits soins With my wife ; but I
loved lier no less than I had done from the
first — indeed, I may honestly say that I have
never loved any other woman in my life.
Very likely I was to blame ; I don't say that I
was not. Women, I suppose, attach a great
deal more importance to trifles than we do,
and I can understand what she meant by saying
that she could have pardoned me more
easily if I had been guilty of cruelty towards
her. Yet what a mistake she made ! — what
a terrible mistake ! She saw it, and repented

bitterly of it, as soon as it was made ; but
mistakes of that kind are irreparable ; there
is no cure for them but death.'

What a dreadfully sad story ! ' murmured
Hope, after he had remained silent fora
time.

Sad enough,' agreed Tristram, ' and common
enough too, for that matter. There's
nothing specially tragic or romantic about it,
sou see ; nothing to bring tears into anybody's
eyes ; it's, only the commonplace, vulgar narrative
of a woman who left her husband in a
fit of pique, and of the ruin that she brought
upon herself by her folly. But I don't know
that it is any the less sad on that account.
Wliy have I told it to you, do you think ? '

Hope looked uneasily at him. 'You said
that it was a relief to you to speak of your
troubles,' she answered.

Ah, my dear child, if I had wanted your
sympathy only, wouldn't it have been simpler
to say, "My wife, who separated herself from
me years ago, is just dead, and I am miserable,
because I find that the misfortune which has

made me a sour, solitary man ever since
was partly my own fault after all, and that I
might have kept her with me if I had been
a little more considerate to her"? No ; I had
another reason. All this has made me think
a good deal about marriage and married
people, and to some extent it has altered my
opinion. I am afraid I gave you bad advice
once, when you came to consult me. Do you
remember consulting me ? '

Quite well,' answered Hope, with an
uncomfortable prescience of what he Alas
going to say next ; ' but I don't think you
advised me badly.'

I gave you advice in accordance with my
own experience. I suppose that is what everybody
does ; and it shows what a useless thing
advice is. Nevertheless, I am going to do much
the same again. That is, I should like you
to think over what my poor wife's experience
has been. Let it be admitted that husbands
are apt to be neglectful and selfish with regard
to minor matters. I daresay most of them
are, and I daresay they oughtn't to be. But

is it wise to quarrel with them for that ? Is
it wise to assume that small attentions, however
pleasant they may be at the time, are
any test of real affection? De Thiancourt's
attentions didn't last long ; and there was no
true love at the back of them either.'

'I am not sure that I quite understand
you,' said Hope, with a slightly heightened
colour.

I think you must understand. I won't
ask whether you have quarrelled with your
husband ; but I know that he has gone off to
America, without fixing any time for his return,
and I know that you are here in London,
receiving visits from — from all sorts of people.
As an old friend, I will take the liberty of
saying to you that that is a dangerous state of
affairs.'

I must confess,' answered Hope, ' that
I should have considered that a very great
liberty for anyone but an old friend to take.
And I cannot allow even you to compare me
• — to suppose that '

That you resemble poor Stella ; God

forbid ! Still, your cause for complaint is possibly
something like hers. I am unhappy
about you, and I had it on my mind to speak
out, whether I offended you or not. Perhaps
I was foolish and presumptuous in taking upon
me to recommend you to marry Mr. Herbert ;
but what is done is done, and I can't but
think that you may be very happy with him
yet. Don't let a mere misunderstanding part
you. He may be in the wrong ; but you are
not in the riizht. I know somethiui^j of the
man, and he is neither selfish nor a fool ;
though it sometimes suits him to behave as if
he were both. He hasn't gone away now
because he is weary of you or because he hasa
hankering after wild sport. I don't agree
with Stiles as to that.'

Stiles ? Has Jacob Stiles been talking to
you about my affairs ? ' asked Hope, drawing
herself up.

Well, yes ; since you ask me, he has.
But you mustn't be angry with the poor lad ;
Heaven knows he is respectful and admiring
enough in his language about you! I have

Vol. hi. K

seen a good deal of him lately, and eve have
talked together. Maybe I put questions to
him which he couldn't help answering. Well,
I have said my say now, and said it without
much delicacy. I am an ill-mannered sort of
ruffian, as you know, and it is difficult tome
to wrap up my meaning in the roundabout
phrases that ladies like ; but at least I
am a true friend. You believe that, don't

you ? '

Hope nodded. ' But I should be glad if
my friends could trust me a little,' she said.
You are not the only one who has thought
fit to caution me in this way. I can't pretend
to think it pleasant or flattering ; but I suppose
it is unavoidable. I wish — ' she paused
for a moment and then, with a break in her
voice, exclaimed — ' I wish Dick were back
again ! '

Tristan's face brightened. ' I am rejoiced
to hear you say that,' he declared. ' Will you
forgive me for having been so outspoken with
you?'

Oh, I forgive you,' Hope answered, though

there was still some resentment in her heart,
and she gave him her hand, which he took,
saying that he had outstayed his time and
should be late for an appointment.

It would have been easy for her to set his
mind at rest by telling him that she loved her
husband, and that Bertie Cunningham was probably
upon the eve of becoming engaged to
Miss Herbert ; but she did not at the moment
feel disposed towards making confidences,
nor did lie think that he quite deserved to
receive any.

He bade her good-bye, begging her to pay
a visit to the old studio when she had nothing
better to do, and so marched towards the
door. But upon the threshold he paused and
turned back. ' I want you to tell me something
about Stiles,' he said. ' That is a queer
fellow — a very queer fellow. He interests me
because he is a great artist and will be a
greater one, if he lives ; but I am not certain
that I like him. Has he any grudge against
your husband, do you know ? '

He owes everything to Dick,' answered

K 2

Hope. ' I don't know whether that constitutes
a grudge.'

H'm ! — it might, perhaps ; though I fancy
there must be something more. Do you know
anything about the antecedents of Stiles ? Do
you know who his parents were ? '

Hope shook her head. 'I have never
liked to ask. I think he is rather sensitive
upon the subject.'

'Yes — a badly-bred one, no doubt,' observed
Tristan, musingly. ' He often reminds
me of a little cur-dog that I once had and
hated ; though I suppose the poor little brute
couldn't help its disposition. He has a furtive
'' I-would-if-I-dared " sort of look at times
which is anything but prepossessing.'

Poor Jacob ! ' said Hope ; ' I am afraid I
don't much like him either ; but he has been
very kind to me, and I am sure there is a great
deal of good in him.'

And a pretty considerable spice of evil.
Possibly an out-and-out scoundrel might be a
safer customer to deal with. Still, in all probability,
he never will dare.'

« To do what ? '

To assassinate your enemies,' answered
Tristram, laughing. 'He would, though, if
you asked him. Now I must really be off.
Good-bye again, and don't forget to come and
see an old man who has very few friends left
in the world.'

CHAPTER Xxxvi.

HOPE IS Taken TO THE PLAY.

Of Hope's two visitors that afternoon, Tristram,
it appeared, was not the only one who
Iliad an appointment elsewhere ; for no sooner
had that gentleman been conducted downstairs,
as above related, than Bertie pulled out
his watch, exclaiming : ' By Jove ! I had no
idea it was so late. I promised to call upon
some people at five o'clock.'

You are in a great hurry,' said Carry.
Can't you keep your friends waiting a few
minutes longer ? You haven't told me anything
about yourself yet.'

There's nothing to tell,' replied Bertie ;
I'm like Mrs. micawber, I am in statu quo'

Why wouldn't you let me help you ? '

'I told you why at the time. It was

awfully good of you ; but the tiling was
utterly out of the question. You know very
well that you would never have accepted
such an offer yourself.'

And what are you going to do now ? '
asked Carry, after a short interval of silence.

He shrugged his shoulders. ' That is more
than I can tell you. The Egyptians couldn't
put a bullet into fine, and the typhoid fever
didn't manage to kill me ; so I suppose I
must be reserved for some pleasing fate or
other.'

At least,' pleaded Carry, ' you won't do
anything rash without consulting me, will
you?'

Oh, no,' he answered, with a sort of laugh,
I won't do anything rash without consulting
you. It is extremely unlikely that I shall do
anything rash either before or after consultation.
It strikes me that rashness is not one of
my failings.'

Then he picked up his hat and stick and
went away.

lie had not thought it advisable to mention

that lie was going to call upon a friend of
Miss Herbert's, who had only just arrived in
London ; because, in the first place, it seemed
doubtful whether Carry would have accepted
that as a sufficient excuse for his departure,
and in the second she would have been quite
capable of putting on her bonnet and accompanying
him. It would have been annoying
if she had done that, for he was anxious to
talk to Mrs. Pierpoint alone.

Just as he was about to ring the door-bell
of the house in Green Street, a very small and
emaciated man came blundering out, lurched
against him, begged his pardon, and went away
down the street with hurried, devious gait,
like a little black spider.

So y oil re here, are you, you drunken
little beast ? ' muttered Bertie. ' I wonder
she doesn't have you locked up ; I would.'

A few minutes later he was shaking hands
with Mrs. Pierpoint, whom he had not seen
since his return from Egypt, and whose reception
of him seemed to lack the warmth that
might have been expected after so long a

separation. When Bertie had said all that he
had to say about his uneventful campaign, he
came to the point by remarking : ' Miss
Herbert is in London. Did you know it ? '

No answered Mrs. Pierpoint, ' I didn't
know it. Is that why you are in London ? '

Yes ; and I wish you wouldn't put on that
stern expression. I am going to be good ;
only it isn't easy, and I want your support
and sympathy.'

I'll endeavour to prop you up,' said Mrs.
Pierpoint ; ' I can't honestly say that I sympathise
with you much.'

I think you ought, considering all that I
have told you at different times ; but I never
met anyone quite so hard-hearted as you are.
I saw her this afternoon,' added Bertie with a
deep sigh.

Do you mean that you saw Carry ? '

You know I don't. I did see her, too ;
but — oh, confound it all ! don't you understand
what an awful corner I'm in? How
can I propose to the woman whom I mean to
marry under the very nose of the woman

whom I love — and who knows that I love
her?'

What is that you say? ' asked Mrs. Pier-point,
sharply.

Bertie looked a little confused. ' Of course
she knoAvs it,' he said, ' how can she help
knowing it ? I tell you I am going to do the
right thing ; but I don't wish her to despise
me utterly.'

I am afraid you can't have it all your
own way ; and you ought not to mind being
despised for doing what is right. What was
your object in coming to me, if I may ask ? '

I wish I hadn't come ! ' exclaimed Bertie,
pettishly ; ' you always scold me, whether I
do right or wrong. Is it right to make a
marriage of this kind ? There ! Answer that
question, if you can.'

I thought I had answered it, to the best
of my powers, long ago. I really have nothing
fresh to say about the matter.'

There was a pause of a few seconds, after
which Bertie remarked casually : ' I met Pier-point
at the door just now.'

Mrs. Pierpoint looked at him steadily.
The innuendo was not lost upon her ; but
neither Bertie nor anyone else had ever heard
her breathe a word against her disreputable
consort. ' Yes,' she said quietly ; ' I came
up to town to meet him. He is going to
Monte Carlo for the winter, as usual.'

Shall I be allowed to go abroad for the
winter after I am married, do you think ? '
asked Bertie, with a slight laugh. 'I shall
be all in the fashion if I do. I suppose you
know that Herbert is away in Texas or
Colorado or some such place.'

Lies. Pierpoint made no immediate rejoinder.
' Perhaps,' she said at length, ' it
would save time if you would tell me plainly
what it is that you want me to do ? '

Oh, if you put it in that way, nothing.
One naturally turns to one's friends at a pinch,
that is all. If I wanted anything, I wanted
you to see me through ; but as you evidently
can't or won't, I shall have to pull through as
best I can by myself

Ah, you are not quite frank,' said Mrs.

Pierpoint ; ' I suspect that you want a little
more than that. I suspect that you would
like me to make excuses for you to Mrs.
Herbert, to represent to her that you are inconsolable
; but that, since you can't marry
her, you find yourself bound in honour to
marry somebody else. In fact, you wish me
to point out that, taking everything into consideration,
you are acting in a very noble and
disinterested way. Well, I am sorry ; but I
must decline the commission.'

I never wanted you to do any such
thing,' cried Bertie, warmly — and, to give
him his due, he was not conscious of having
entertained the desire attributed to him. ' It
is all very well to accuse me of not being
frank ; but you snub me so that I hardly
know what I am saying. I must confess that
when I asked you to let me call to-day, I
expected that you would be a little more
friendly. I expected you to offer me a helping
hand.'

In what way ? '

Well, I thought perhaps you would call

in Brut on Street and — and — back me up generally.'


Oh; said Mrs. Pierpoint, ' if that is all, I
am quite at your service. How am I to begin ?
Shall I ask the three of you to dinner ? '

I wish you would ! ' exclaimed Bertie.
Unsympathetic as you are, I should think
even you must understand how miserable it is
for me to go to that house just now.'

You seemed to be able to face the misery
of it for a considerable time down at Farndon,'
observed Mrs. Pierpoint.

'Ah, but there was always somebody to
make a fourth at Farndon.'

I see. Nevertheless, you are not quite
frank. But you shall be asked to dinner, all
the same. How would it do to make a
theatre evening of it ? I am going to the
play on Wednesday with Marmaduke ' (it was
by this high-sounding name that Mr. Pier-point's
parents had christened their deplorable
little progeny), ' and if you think Mrs. Herbert
Avould care to join us, I will write and suggest
it to her.'

Bertie jumped at this proposal. 'That
will do first-rate,' he declared. ' And now I
hope to goodness you are not going to be
cross with me any more.'

But Mrs. Pierpoint shook her head. ' I
am not pleased with you,' she returned, ' and
I don't care to pretend that I am.'

Why are you displeased ? Wliat possible
reason can you have for being displeased
with me now ? '

I A^ill answer you, if you like,' said Mrs.
Pierpoint, tranquilly ; ' but perhaps you had
better not press the question.'

And, upon reflection, Bertie thought that
perhaps he wouldn't press the question. He
had a high opinion of Mrs. Pierpoint's sagacity
; it was quite possible that she suspected
him of having revealed the state of his feelings
to Hope, and he knew very well that, if she
charged him in so many words with having
done so, her suspicions would speedily be
converted into certainty. So he let the subject
drop and went away, saying that he would
see about getting the theatre tickets.

The invitation was despatched without
delay, and was at once accepted. Hope was
sincerely rejoiced to hear that Mrs. Pierpoint
was in London, for she was scarcely less
anxious than Bertie himself to secure the
company of a fourth person ; and when the
appointed evening came, she was a good deal
surprised and chilled by the somewhat formal
welcome which the little lady extended to her.
Was it possible that Mrs. Pierpoint, too, was
disposed to look askance at her because her
husband was in America ? That would really
be a little too bad, considering how very
seldom Mrs. Pierpoint's own husband was to
be seen with her.

While these thoughts were passing through
Hope's mind, Mrs. Pierpoint's husband made
one of his rare appearances — a little, grizzle-headed,
woebegone-looking man, with a
drooping moustache. He was said, by the
few friends who still stuck to him, to have
been a good fellow once upon a time, a bold
rider and a fine shot. In these days he had
no occupations and no tastes left, except a

moderate one for gambling and an immoderate
one for stimulant. When in London, he spent
nearly the whole of his days at his club,
where it was his habit to fall asleep in the
reading-room and snore loudly, to the great
indignation of the other members. Indeed,
the attention of the committee had more than
once been drawn to this objectionable conduct
on the part of Mr. Pierpoint ; but as his conduct
in other respects was more objectionable
still, and as he had not yet been requested to
remove his name from the books, it was, perhaps,
hyper criticism to complain of a few
grunts from one so closely resembling the
animal from whom grunts are proverbially to
be expected. Besides, there was a general feeling
that some allowance omit to be made for
poor Pierpoint, ' because he has such a rough
time of it at home, you know.'

He advanced into the drawing-room with
uncertain steps. His steps were always uncertain,
his shrunken body seeming to lack
the ballast requisite for a straight course, even
in his soberest moments. At the present

moment he was perfectly sober. His wife
having informed him that some people were
coming to dinner, he had heroically abstained
from strong drink ever since the middle of the
day and was consequently in a condition of
the deepest despondency. After he had been
introduced to Hope he stationed himself beside
her, with his head sunk upon his breast and
both hands behind his back, and did not even
attempt to make conversation. To everything
that she said he replied by a prolonged,
barely articulate assent — ' Oh, yes ! Yes — yes
yes — yes ' — staring straight before him the
while with dull, vacant eyes. It was only
when dinner was announced that he roused
himself from his melancholy lethargy, and
said almost briskly, as he offered Hope his
arm : ' That's a good job ! Now we shall get
something to drink — eat, I mean.'

Hope, who had never before encountered
anyone afflicted with Mr. Pierpoint's complaint,
concluded at first that the poor man must be
suffering from incipient softening of the brain,
but before dinner was half over, even she

Vol. m. L

could not help perceiving what was really
the matter. Nothing could have been more
artistically excellent than that repast, or prettier
than the floral decoration of the oval
table upon which it was served ; but it is extremely
improbable that anybody, except the
master of the house, enjoyed it. The remaining
four diners were each and all preoccupied
by anxious thoughts of their own. ]airs. Pier-point
was evidently out of spirits ; Bertie was
uneasily loquacious ; Carry, who understood
quite well with what object the party had
been arranged, was provoked with herself and
her friends, and showed that she was so ;
while Hope, between dawning suspicion of
her tipsy little neighbour and dread lest her
determination to avoid speaking to or looking
at Bertie Cunningham should be noticed, was
thoroughly uncomfortable.

Nor did the demeanour of Mr. Pierpoint
tend to set her more at her ease. That
unfortunate man was no seasoned toper of the
old school, but a confirmed tippler of the
modern one, whose worn-out system was far

less able to withstand excesses than that of an
ordinary person in good health. Not many
glasses of champagne were required to throw
him off his balance, and, unhappily, loss of
balance with him was always accompanied, in
the first instance, by loss of temper. ' Here,
take away this pheasant,' he called out to the
butler ; ' it isn't fit for human food, by Jove !
What beastly dinners you manage to give one,
Kate ! One would think you did it on purpose.
I believe you do do it on purpose —
hanged if I don't ! '

Mrs. Pierpoint made no reply to this very
unjust accusation. She was accustomed to
such outbreaks and knew what was the only
cure for them, as did also the butler. A little
more champagne effected a change in Mr.
Pierpoint which was, perhaps, a change for the
better ; though Hope, personally, was not
quite sure that she considered it so. Leaning
back in his chair, he surveyed her for a few
minutes, smiling blandly and approvingly ;
after which he said, with laborious distinctness
of enunciation :

It's awfully kind of 3^011, you know, to take
us like this in the rough, you know. This is
the sort of thing I enjoy. I should like to
have a little dinner like this every night of
ray life. Shouldn't you ? '

Perhaps that would be rather too much
of a good thing,' answered Hope, who certainly
thought that it would.

Mr. Pierpoint shook his head. ' Can't
have too much of a good thing,' he said,
solemnly. ' Can't have too much of your
company, Mrs. — Mrs. — well, it don't matter.
Names don't matter. No matter names, belong
as the heart's in the right place ' (here he
slapped his waistcoat). ' Don't you agree with
me, eh ? '

Oh, yes, entirely ; I am sure you are
quite right,' answered Hope in some haste,
thinking; to herself, ' I wonder how lons^ it will
be before he slides off his chair.'

However, having reached this maudlin
condition, he did not get much worse, and,
beyond a tendency to run all his words into
one, displayed no further symptoms of intoxication

until dinner was over. During the last
quarter of an hour Hope had not dared to
look at Mrs. Pierpoint ; but when she did so
she Alas sincerely sorry for the poor little
woman, whose pretty face looked pale and
old. They were alone together for a few
minutes Awhile they were putting on their
wraps, and Hope was half-afraid that lier
hostess was going to apologise. But she did
not make that mistake, only remarking : ' I
think Marmaduke and I had better drive to
the theatre together, if you will take the
others in your carriage.'

When this arrangement was communicated
to Mr. Pierpoint, who was wrestling with his
ulster, he seemed inclined to raise objections
to it ; but, as nobody listened to him, he
resigned himself to what could not be helped,
and, after making a bad shot at the brougham
and rushing out into the middle of the street,
was brought back by the footman and driven
away.

He'll go to sleep as soon as we get to the
theatre ; it will be all right,' whispered Bertie

to Hope, who did not choose to make any
response to this encouraging assurance.

He thought she was annoyed with him for
having been the means of taking her to the
house of a man who did not know how to
behave himself; but in truth she was thinking
very little about him, and ceased to think
about him at all dien they reached the
theatre and when he devoted his conversation
to Carry. The two men were seated in the
row of stalls behind the ladies. Bertie leant
forward and whispered into Carry's ear ; while
Mr. Pierpoint, as had been predicted, fell
asleep and ceased from troubling. The play,
to which Hope only lent a very small share of
her attention, was one which had had a great
success. There was a young and foolish
bride in it ; there was a virtuous husband,
who Alas sent away somewhere to the wars ;
there was an unprincipled foreigner ; there
was a clever widow, whose mission it was to
avert catastrophes and make everybody happy
in the last act ; there was a fine old English
country gentleman, who wore a scarlet coat

and top-boots all the year round, in accordance
with the well-known habit of English
country gentlemen ; and there was a simpleminded
dragoon, in love with the clever
widow, who ejaculated 'Haw!' at frequent
intervals and was rewarded each time by the
peals of laughter which so subtle a stroke
of wit would naturally provoke. How the
wicked foreigner nearly, but not quite, eloped
with the fair bride; how the virtuous husband
appeared upon the scene, in full uniform, at
the most inopportune moment ; how a duel
and a subsequent appeal to the Divorce Court
seemed quite unavoidable ; and how the widow
and the dragoon saved the situation between
them — all this Hope saw and heard with a
profound indifference for which neither play
nor players were to blame. In imagination she
was far away from that hot, crowded theatre ;
she had crossed the Atlantic and the wide
plains of the North American continent, and
had penetrated to the least-frequented district
of frozen Wyoming. The landscape at which
she was gazing was wild and forbidding in the

extreme. Gigantic black precipices hemmed
it in ; above and beneath them was a universal
white winding-sheet, across which the
wind swept, sending columns of whirling drift
before it. In the foreground, stretched upon
his face on the snow, was the prostrate figure
of a man, the rifle which he would never raise
to his shoulder again lying beside him. She
was for ever summoning up some such pleasing
picture as this before her mind's eye. It was
true that Dick, in his last letter, had informed
her (with evident regret) that he had decided
to abandon the plan of wintering in a certain
valley whence egress would be impossible
before the spring. * It would hardly do,' he
had remarked, ' to cut ourselves off altogether
from reach of letters and telegrams.' He had,
however, warned her that his chances of
despatching a letter even from their present
quarters would be infrequent and irregular ;
and, as a matter of fact, she had not heard
from him for some weeks.

Being thus provided with ample material
for self-torment, it is scarcely surprising that

she should have forgotten all about the
Pierpoints, and Carry, and Bertie Cunningham,
and that she should even have failed to hear
one or two timid observations which the latter
addressed to her over her shoulder. But it so
happened that there was someone among the
audience who was more observant — someone
who from his place in the last row of stalls
had been watching Hope intently ever since
her entrance, and upon whom neither her
melancholy abstraction, nor Bertie's futile
attempts to get a word from her, nor Miss
Herbert's air of quiet triumph where lost.
It was not by accident that Jacob was at the
theatre that evening. He had received a note
from Hope two days before, in which she had
upbraided him for not calling in Bruton
Street, and had begged him to come and dine
any night that week that suited him, as she
had only one engagement — which engagement
she specified. Jacob had declined the invitation
to dinner, not caring to force his company
upon Miss Herbert, but had at once secured a
stall at the theatre, and, having taken possession

of it, saw — not indeed exactly what lie
had expected to see, but something that was
quite as bad. It was easy to him to interpret
the drama in pantomime which was being
enacted a few yards in front of him, and which
interested him a great deal more than the
drama on the stage.

She is trying to break with that fellow,'
he thought ; ' she won't speak to him, and she
is making herself miserable about him, and he
is revenging himself by pretending to make
love to Miss Herbert. Confound him ! I
should like to break his neck ! Xo, I shouldn't
though. If she loves him, that is enough ; I
don't wish him any harm. I should like to
put him in Herbert's place, if that would make
her happy. Only I don't think I should ever
care to see her again afterwards. Wliat can
she find to love in such a puppy ! It must be
his handsome face, I suppose — I'll allow him
a handsome face.'

In process of time the play came to an end ;
the actors were duly applauded ; the audience
poured itself out into the narrow passages; Mr.

Pierpoint woke up, quite sober and subdued,
and our friends prepared to follow the stream.
At the bottom of the staircase they were kept
waiting some little time, and while Hope was
standing there a voice close to her ear
whispered : ' Am I never to be forgiven ? '

She started and looked at the speaker with
mingled surprise and displeasure, but made no
reply.

It is cruel to treat me like this,' Bertie
went on in a low, hurried voice, ' and — and —
it isn't wise. Everybody must notice it.'

Oh, I see,' said Hope, with a cold smile.
I certainly don't wish people to notice
anything peculiar in my treatment of you, and
if you will suggest any change, I will try
to make it. What Avould you like me to do?'

It does seem to me,' continued Bertie, in
an aggrieved tone, ' that my punishment has
been sufficiently heavy. Because I forgot myself
for one instant I have lost your friendship
for ever. Well, I brought that upon myself,
and I suppose I have no right to complain.
But surely, for your own sake as well as mine,

it might be better at least to answer when I
speak to you.'

Perhaps it might be better still that you
should not speak to me. But of course I shall
answer you when you do. I always have.'

Excuse me ; three or four .times this
evening I said something to you, and you
never so much as turned your head. It was
rather marked — and rather unnecessary, I
think.'

You, should have spoken louder,' said
Hope. ' I am sorry that I was so rude ; but
my rudeness was not intentional. To tell you
the truth. I had quite forgotten that you were
there.'

Bertie drew back, looking somewhat crestfallen.
The explanation was not a flattering
one, and its veracity was indubitable. No
doubt it must be difficult for a man who has
been uniformly successful in any line to believe
in his own failure, and the record of Bertie's
amatory successes had hitherto been broken
by no single defeat ; but there was something
in Hope's quiet assertion that she had forgotten

this existence during an entire evening,
while lie had been sitting within a couple of
feet of lier, which was more convincing than
any anger or protestation. Matters being as
they Avere, he said to himself that this was
perhaps just as well ; but he was piqued and
mortified nevertheless ; and — matters being
as they were — this also was perhaps just as
well.

Jacob, who from the background had
witnessed the brief colloquy between Captain
Cunningham and Mrs. Herbert, walked away,
shrugging his shoulders slightly. ' How will
it end ? ' he muttered under his breath. ' But
of course it will end as such affairs always
end. There are only two ways out of it, and
both would bring misery upon her. At least,
there is a possible third way. Yes ; there's
the third way.'

And as he glided through the crowd of
vehicles which were waiting outside, this third
way revealed itself to him in a light more
clear and more startling than it had as yet
assumed.

Will you be very kind and come home
Avitli me ? ' Mrs. Pierpoint said to Hope. ' I
told the servants to have supper ready, and
we could talk over the play before we went to
bed. Marmaduke has gone off to his club.
Please do,' she added, noticing Hope's hesitation
; ' I have a reason for asking you.'

Her manner was much more friendly elias
it had been earlier in the evening, and Hope
did not like to refuse — particularly as Mrs.
Pierpoint's reason was easily divined. The
latter made it more clear by adding : ' If you
will come in the brougham with me, I daresay
Captain Cunningham will look after Miss
Herbert.'

CHAPTEE Xxxviii.

BERTIE ACCOMMODATES HIMSELF TO Circumstances.


Mrs. Pierpoixt was never known to have a bad
horse in her stables or an indifferent coachman
upon her box. The light brougham which
Hope had been requested to enter was whirled
through the streets with such rapidity that
she and her companion were still trying to hit
upon some civil and unmeaning speech wherewith
to open a conversation when their drive
came to an end. ' Let me take you up to my
bedroom,' Lies. Pierpoint said. 'The others
are sure not to be here for some time yet.'

Hope complied, wondering rather at the
invitation, and was presently introduced into
one of the brightest and cosiest little apartments
that she had ever seen. Perhaps there

were more pictures and brackets and odds and
ends of china about it than most people would
consider suitable to a bedroom, and perhaps,
like the drawings-room, it was somewhat overcrowded
with furniture ; but then, to be sure,
the lady to whom it belonged did not require
a very large amount of space to accommodate
her own person. She pushed an easy-chair to
the fireside for Hope, then drew another to
the opposite corner, and, seating herself in it,
toasted her tiny feet upon the fender, while
she held her fan between her face and the
blaze, without speaking.

How pretty your room is ! ' said Hope,
for the sake of saying something.

Mrs. Pierpoint glanced round the four
walls. ' Yes,' she agreed ; ' I like to have
pretty things about me, and pretty faces too —
when I can. Of course one can't always.'

Hope made no reply ; because, at the
moment, she happened to be thinking of the
absent Marmaduke's face, which certainly
could not be said to come under that denomination
; and Mrs. Pierpoint went on : ' I think

it was Captain Cunningham's good looks that
first made me take to him. He is good-looking,
don't you think so ? '

Oh, yes ; nobody could think any tiling
else,' assented Hope, rather hurriedly, and was
about to change the subject ; but Mrs. Pier-point,
who had not dragged Bertie into the
conversation by the hair of his head Without
intention, was too quick for her.

Beauty is of less importance to a man
than to a woman,' said she; 'but it is an advantage
to everybody. I don't mean that I made
a friend of Captain Cunningham because I
admit-ed the shape of his nose ; but I daresay
that helped to attract me to him in the first
instance, and I am sure that a great many of
his friendships have been made in that way.
When one knows him, one likes him for himself,
I think. But perhaps you don't like
him ? '

Xot very much,' Hope confessed.

Mrs. Pierpoint closed her fan, and, resting
her chin upon the top of it, gazed at the
glowing coals. ' I could see that by the way

Vol. hi. M

in which you behaved to him at dinner and
at the theatre this evening,' she remarked
quietly. ' I don't wonder at it, because most
likely you have found out his defects, and I
can understand that they are not of the kind
that you would pardon very readily. My
standpoint is altogether different. I am ever
so much older than either of you, and as one
grows old one becomes less and less exacting.
Captain Cunningham is a spoilt boy, and I
have a King for spoilt boys — that is, when
they are not utterly spoilt. His virtues are
his own and his faults are those of the age, as
I forget who said about somebody else. I
think he will settle down into a very decent,
and perhaps useful, member of society. I
suppose,' she added, somewhat abruptly, ' you
know that he is going to marry your sister-in-law.'


Do you mean that he has actually proposed
to her ? ' asked Hoj)e, a good deal
startled.

Mrs. Pierpoint laughed. ' I don't know
that he has ; but I trust that he is either

doing it now or will be in the course of a few
minutes. At any rate, we will stay up here a
little longer, if you don't mind, so as to give
him every opportunity.'

Hope made a sign of assent.

Will it turn out happily, do you think ? '
she inquired presently. ' Eor Carry, I
mean.'

I think there is a very fair prospect of it,'
Mrs. Pierpoint answered. ' It is quite impossible
to foretell how any marriage will turnout
; but one thing I know — and so do you, I
daresay — Carry will never be happy unless
she does marry Captain Cunningham. As for
him, he will accommodate himself to circumstances.
It is his nature to do that, and it is
not his nature to be unhappy under any circumstances.'


I don't feel sure of him, somehow,' said
Hope, after a pause. ' He seems to me to be
so thoroughly selfish.'

Like the rest of them. A selfish man is
not necessarily a disagreeable person to live
with.'

M 2

Perhaps not — if he will consent to live
with you at ail.'

Ah ! ' said Mrs. Pierpoint, ' if a wife can't
keep her husband at home, she has only herself
to blame. I was thinking of my own
case,' she added hastily, after this not very
felicitous speech. ' I don't generally talk
about my own case, but I think a great deal
about it, and I feel that I deserve most of the
hard things that are said about me.'

I can't agree with you at all ! ' cried Hope,
warmly '; ' I think you do yourself a great injustice
there.'

Do I ? If I do, I am erring on the right
side ; but it does not much matter, either
way, for it is far too late to mend now. I
have been doing you an injustice, at all
events, Mrs. Herbert. May I say as much
as that? — and may I beg your pardon? I
ought not to have made the mistake, though
it was not an unnatural one.'

I suppose it must have been an extremely
natural one,' said Hope, with a touch
of impatience, ' since every friend that I have

in the world seems to have made it. But I
am not like you, — I don't feel disposed to blame
myself. At least, I can't see that I have been
to blame lately.'

As a general rule, nobody is very much
to blame for mistakes of that kind,' observed
Mrs. Pierpoint. ' People judge by appearances
: what else have they to judge by ? '

Strangers may,' agreed Hope ; ' but one
expects one's friends to have a different
standard.'

Mrs. Pierpoint made a little grimace. ' It
is as well not to expect too much even from
one's friends,' she remarked.

After this a rather long interval of time
elapsed, during which neither of the ladies
spoke. At length Hope broke the silence by
reverting to a topic nearer her heart than that
which they had just been discussing. ' You
say that a woman is to blame for not
keeping her husband at home. But how
is she to set about keeping him at home ? '
she asked.

It depends chiefly upon whether she

wants to keep him at home,' Mrs. Pierpoint
answered. 'If lie doesn't — if she is acting
only from a sense of duty, a good deal of tact
would be required, and I don't know that I
should venture to lay down any exact rules.
But if she really wishes to have him with her,
it is tolerably plain sailing. All she has to dois
to let him see that she wishes it.'

Hope confessed that she had little confidence
in so simple a system of tactics.

Nevertheless, it is worth trying,' Mrs.
Pierpoint returned. ' It isn't an infallible
recipe, I admit ; but it is far and away the
best that I know. For many years I have
neither wished nor tried to keep Marmaduke
at home, and that is why I am made the
subject of a good deal of undeserved pity,
besides some calumny. Shall we go downstairs
now? If those two lovers haven't
come to an understanding by this time they
never will.'

The two lovers, as Mrs. Pierpoint was
pleased to call them, had now been waiting
supperless in the drawing-room for more than

half-an-hoiir. To neither of them had the
somewhat unrefined strategy which had been
adopted for their benefit been altogether
welcome. They had maintained a reserved,
not to say sulky, demeanour during the
drive from the theatre to Green Street, and
when, on reaching the house, they found
nobody there to receive them, they both
looked a little foolish. A thirsty horse will
drink readily, if he be allowed to choose his
own time and place for so doing ; it is the
being led to the water that naturally rouses
an obstinate spirit in him.

However, Bertie was not long in recovering
his temper and aplo7nb. He laughed and
said to his companion, ' Do you know why
Mrs. Pierpoint has deserted us in this uncivil
way ?

'I haven't an idea,' answered Carry,
shortly.

If you would like to know, I can tell
you. It is because Mrs. Pierpoint is a great
friend of mine, and because she wants to dome
a good turn. She knows that there is

something which I should like to say to you,
if only I had the pluck, and she is determined
that I shall say it. For ever so long— more
than a year, I think — she has been trying
to screw my courage up to the sticking-point.'


I should not have imagined that you
were so timid,' remarked Carry, quietly ;
though her heart was beating fast.

I have some reason to be timid. It isn't
quite the easiest thing in the world for a
penniless beggar like me to ask an heiress
to be his wife. And that is what I have got
to do.'

Carry neither spoke nor looked at him, so
he continued : ' I was very nearly telling you
all about it that afternoon in Dublin Bay ; but I
couldn't makeup my mind to begin with those
fellows in the boat, you know ; and then I
was sent off to Egypt ; and then '

'And then Dutch Oven, in the most unexpected
way, won the Leger,' put in Carry,
without moving a muscle.

This was rather disconcerting. ' I didn't

think you would answer me like that,' sake
Bertie, reproachfully.

Carry laughed 'How did you think
that I should answer you P I only ask out of
curiosity.'

I thought you would give me credit for
for loving you for your own sake.'

But is that the case ? Tell me the truth
about it ; I shan't mind hearing the truth,
whatever it may be, and I shan't think the
worse of you for being honest with me.'

Bertie hung his head. His system of
ethics was still very much what it had been in
his school-days ; he could not tell a direct lie,
though he would have seen no great harm in
insinuations one. ' I shouldn't have asked
you to marry me if you had been poor,' he
blurted out at last. ' You know as well as
anybody that I couldn't have done that.'

But if you had loved me you would have
told me so, without asking me to marry you,'
returned Carry, betraying a knowledge of her
suitor's character for which that young gentleman
was hardly prepared.

You reject me, then ? ' lie said.

Carry looked at him with a queer sort of
smile. ' You wouldn't take me without my
money ; you wouldn't take my money without
me,' she said. ' AVhat is to be done ? Money
you must have ; and there would be no use
at all in my making you my heir, because I
am one of those perfectly" healthy people
whom nothing short of a railway accident is
likely to remove for the next forty years or
so."

I ^tish you wouldn't talk like that,'
exclaimed Bertie, reddening slightly. ' I'm
not such a brute as you think — I really am
not. You might easily find a better husband,
there's no doubt about that ; but if you will
have me, such as I am, I will do my best
to be worthy of you.'

As far as worthiness goes, there is probably
not much to choose between us,'
answered Carry, holding out her hand to
him. ' We are both of us running a risk ;
but I suppose there must be an element of
risk in every marriage. Dick once told mein

his charmingly candid way, that I could bea
confoundedly disagreeable woman ; but I
believe he was kind enough to add that I
could also be confoundedly agreeable, when I
chose. I shall endeavour to be confoundedly
agreeable to you.' Then suddenly the
woman's real passionate nature broke through
this crust of irony for a moment. ' Oh,
Bertie,' she exclaimed, ' try to care a little forme
! I should be satisfied with a very little.'
He told her that he cared for her a great
deal ; and perhaps, in a sense, he did. Certainly
he would have been very ungrateful if
he had not. He was touched by her generosity
and by the love which he had done so
little to earn ; possibly also his vanity, which
had been deeply wounded by one woman that
evening, was peculiarly susceptible to another
woman's healing touch ; for, in truth, vanity
is more profoundly rooted in all of us than
we either admit or suspect, and when hope
flew out of Pandora's box, vanity (which is
only another word for emptiness) must have
remained behind — no getting rid of that

until the box itself moulder away. Out of
nothing nothing can come ; but during the
next few minutes Bertie registered certain
inward and laudable vows which were based,
let us trust, upon some more substantial
foundation than that just mentioned ; and
when the interview was put an end to by the
entrance of Mrs. Pierpoint, he had already
fulfilled that lady's prediction and was accommodating
himself to circumstances.

Mrs. Pierpoint saw at a glance that all
was as it should be and made herself proportionally
amiable ; but it was hardly in her
power to render the little supper-party a gay
one. Her guests Avere all of them more or
less self-conscious and uncomfortable ; and
indeed she herself was neither very sorry to
be rid of them nor in particularly good spirits
after they had left her. She had brought
about the end for which she had so long been
striving, and, having done so, it was but
natural that she should begin to sigh over
some of the probable results of her handiwork.
Lie was fond of Bertie Cunningham,

who had made her this adviser and confidant
Whenever he had been in trouble (which had
been pretty constantly), and she Alas well
aware that a bachelor friend and a married
friend are two different persons. ' Now that
I am going down the hill, I suppose I shall
become more and more lonely every year,'
was the melancholy reflection with which
she went upstairs to bed.

When Hope and Carry were driving homewards,
the latter said quietly, ' Bertie Cunningham
and I are engaged to be married.'

'Oh, I am so very glad ! ' cried Hope,
warmly.

And in truth she was glad, both on her
sister-in-law's account and on her own ;
though she could not help feeling some misgivings
with regard to the future conduct of
so fickle an individual as Bertie had shown
himself to be.

You think I am foolish, don't you ? '
Carry said. ' Very likely I am, but at any
rate I have counted the cost of what I am
going to do, and I am old enough to know

my own mind. Thank you for coming up to
London with me.'

Carry's sober and rather humble tone
went to Hope's heart. She felt for her companion's
hand and gave it an encouraging
squeeze ; and then the two women kissed
each other. So that, upon the whole, the
evening ended a good deal more pleasantly
than it had begun.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

CAIN.'

Jacob Stiles was seated in his studio in Gower
Street, plunged in meditations wliicli the
frown on his forehead showed to be anxious
or unpleasant ones. If, as is sometimes
averred, the furniture of a man's room be a
key to the order of his mind, Jacob's character
must have been simple to a fault. The large,
bare chamber in which he was at work was
his drawing-room and dining-room, as well as
his studio, and had served him in these three
capacities for a considerable length of time ;
yet it could hardly be said to contain a single
superfluous table or chair, and it was absolutely
devoid of adornment or decoration of
any kind. An acquaintance of Jacob's, happening
once to visit him upon a matter of

business (nobody ever visited him from any
other motive), expressed some surprise that a
man of so much taste should not have cared
to surround himself with objects more pleasing
to the eye ; to which Jacob made the rather
quaint reply that he was not sufficiently fond
of himself to lay out money in that way. It
was literally true that he was not at all fond
of himself, and he derived a sort of grim
satisfaction from dispensing with luxuries.
lie had perpetually before his mind's eye a
vision of what he might have been and would
have been but for an unaccountable act of
folly, for which he did not always feel inclined
to accept the entire responsibility. Sometimes
he was able to identify himself with this
potential personage ; and there were moments
when the potential Jacob saw the real Jacob
with such startling distinctness and despised
him so heartily that the real Jacob was inappreciable
danger of having a rope twisted
round his neck.

Anyone who had seen this despondent
young artist on the morning with which weare

now concerned might have surmised that
one of the above-mentioned fits of depression
was upon him. Brushes and pallet in hand,
he was seated before his easel, on which
rested an almost completed picture — that
picture, entitled ' Cain,' which has since
become so deservedly notorious. He had
added a few touches to it in the course of the
mornings, but was neither looking at it nor
thinking of it now. Jacob was a slow worker
and a thorough one. Naturally patient and
methodical, he had that desire for perfection,
that determination that no detail of his work
should fall below the very best that he had it
in his power to produce, which are becoming
more and more rare in this age of hurry.
His conception of Cain was a somewhat
unusual one, that hapless offender being depicted
as a slight, black-browed, beardless
man, no match in point of physique for the
brawny young giant who lay dead at his feet.
The pool of blood which seemed to be trickling
slowly towards the spectator, the grey flesh-tints
of the corpse, the waving cornfields in
Vol. hi. N

the background, and the red glow of the
morning sky — all these were faithfully and
admirably rendered ; but the fascinating feature
of the composition was the expression of
Cain's face — a mixture of fear and curiosity,
With a lurking suspicion of triumph — the
half-puzzled look of the first murderer, who,
until his doom fell upon him from Heaven,
may have felt some doubt as to whether what
he had just done should be accounted a crime
or a victory.

Jacob sat pondering for a considerable
time, and then rising, with a sigh, threw a
cloth over his picture. He was not in the
mood for painting, and he knew better than
to paint when he was not in the mood. The
man who waits for inspiration may sometimes
have to wait long ; but the man Who forces
himself to finish a task when his heart is not
in his work will certainly not do his best,
and may, if he be conscientious, find himself
compelled to indo all that he has
done. Jacob had put on his hat, and had
decided to try what a little fresh air would

do for him, when somebody rapped loudly on
the door with a stick, and, without waiting
for permission to enter, marched into the
room.

It was very seldom that Tristram was
to be seen in any studio except his own ;
but this was not the first visit that he had
paid to Jacob's gloomy habitation. He was,
as he had told Hope, interested in Jacob —
interested in him as an artist, and possibly
even more interested in him as an individual.
Jacob, on his side, had taken a fancy to the
elder man, whose genius he appreciated, and
who, in a rough sort of way, had shown him
more good-Avill than he was accustomed to
meet with from his fellow-mortals.

Tristram walked up to the young man
and surveyed him slowly from head to foot.
Well,' he said, at length, ' what is the matter
with you'd'

Nothing is the matter, Mr. Tristram,
answered Jacob.

What ? — a face like that all about
nothing ? See what it is to be young ! At

my age one can't afford to despair upon such
small provocation.'

When I said nothing, I meant everything,'
observed Jacob. ' Nothing worse than
usual is the matter with me, and everything
is always the matter. I suffer from an incurable
complaint.'

Tristram looked hard at the speaker and
smiled ironically. ' Dear me ! ' he ejaculated.
And what is the name of this deadly disease,
if one may ask ? '

I don't know,' answered Jacob. ' Perhaps
it isn't sufficiently common to have
earned one ; I'm sure I hope it isn't.'

Oh,' said Tristram, laughing a little,
you're young ; you're very young ! If I
were to make a careful diagnosis, I daresay
I could tell you what is wrong with you ;
on ne meurt pas de cette maladie-la. But
never mind ; we'll call it indigestion, if you
like. What have you got here ? '

He walked up to the easel, flicked the
cloth off the canvas, and started slightly.
With his hands behind his back, he contemplated

the picture silently for some minutes
before he remarked : ' That's an odd idea.
One has met with a good deal of self-portraiture
both in literature and art ; but I
don't know that I ever before heard of a man
who chose to hand his features down to posterity
as those of Cain.'

I suppose it is rather like me,' Jacob
said considering. ' I didn't intend it to be
so.'

Come, come ! do you mean to tell me
that you hadn't a looking-glass before you
when you painted that face ? '

'I made some use of the lookinf^^- «^lass
for my studies, I confess ; it isn't the first
time that I have had to do that, in order
to catch a particular expression. But the
resemblance of feature is accidental — so far
as there is a resemblance. If you look again,
I think you will see that Cain's nose is
longer than mine, and that his eyes are set
rather nearer together. Also there is a slight
backward slope of the forehead.'

It must be very slight,' said Tristram

smiling ; ' about one in a hundred, I should
say ; and I am not prepared to swear that

your own However, all this is neither

here nor there. Whether the chief figure is a
portrait or whether he isn't, you have painted
a grand picture.'

Do you think so ? ' said Jacob, indifferently.


Yes, young man, I think so. I think it
better than anything that you have done yet
bolder, more striking, superior in every
way. And if you don't consider my praise
worth having, I can't help it.'

Of course your praise is worth having,
Mr. Tiistram,' answered Jacob ; 'to me I
suppose it ought to be about the most valuable
thing in the world that I can possibly
get. But I don't feel as if I could care much
about anything to-day. Perhaps you yourself
may sometimes have had the same sort of
sensation.'

Oh, yes,' said Tristram, feeling in his
pocket for a pipe, which he slowly filled and
lighted — 'yes, I have had your complaint,

and so have most men. It isn't incurable ;
although everybody thinks it so while it
lasts.'

Excuse me,' began Jacob ; ' but I don't
think you quite understand '

Excuse me ; but I make so bold as to
feel pretty sure that I do. Have you been
to call in Bruton Street yet ? '

Jacob shook his head.

Take my advice, and don't go there.
Take my advice, and go somewhere else. Go
clean away — to the other side of the world,
if you choose — and don't come back again
until you are convalescent. I may mention,
for your comfort, that I have been in Bruton
Street, and that, from what I saw there, I am
persuaded that the catastrophe which you
and I dreaded will not occur.'

Tristram had seated himself, and, with
eyes half closed, was drawing placidly at his
pipe. Had he glanced at his neighbour's face
while uttering the above sentences, he would
probably have thought him more like Cain
than ever.

What catastrophe?' asked Jacob, sharply;
I don't remember saying that I dreaded any
catastrophe. And, Mr. Tristram, are you
accusing me of — I hardly like to say it — of
being in love With Mrs. Herbert ? '

Tristram shrugged his shoulders. 'My
good fellow, what have you been telling me
for the last month ? '

Certainly not that. Please, never say
such a thing again. I am astonished that you
should have thought I could be guilty of such
such — - — '

Presumption ? '

Well, presumption, if you like. I am by
way of being a republican, and thinking
that one human being is made of much the
same clay as another (though I am not at all
sure that I do think so) ; but setting all that
aside, you must see that if I had allowed myself
to feel in that way towards Mrs. Herbert,
I should have been guilty of something a
great deal worse than presumption.'

Tristram could not help laughing a little.

'I apologise,' he said ; ' but all this is becoming*

rather involved. It would be a dreadful
thing in you to fall in love with Mrs. Herbert,
because she is a married woman ; but apparently
it wouldn't be a dreadful thing in her
to be in love with young Cunningham.'

You may depend upon it that she would
think it so,' returned Jacob, quickly. ' If she
were in love with him, she would never be
able to persuade herself that it wasn't wrong,
as some women would.'

But perhaps she is not in love with him.
You gave me a fine fright about her, I admit ;
I daresay it was I, and not you, who spoke of
catastrophes. I am glad to say that since I
have seen her I am inclined to think that you
may be mistaken about the whole business.'

Jacob made a gesture of dissent. ' I am
not mistaken. I was at the theatre last night,
and I watched them together. They were all
there — she and Miss Herbert and Cunningham,
and that Mrs. Pierpoint who was at Pardon at
the time of the theatricals, when Cunningham
managed to break his leer. I wish it had

g-

been his skull ! '

He would have survived that most likely.
What did he do at the theatre to rouse your
wrath ? '

Oh, nothing particular. He was annoyed
because she wouldn't talk to him, and, by way
of revenging himself, he pretended to get up
Xi great flirtation with Miss Herbert — that was
all. I think they had a kind of explanation
afterwards, while they were waiting for their
carriage. If you had seen it all, your wrath
would have been as much roused as mine, I
daresay. ' Knowing what she is and what he
is, one can't help feeling the pity of it.'

And sometimes you feel the pity of it to
the extent of wishing to crack his skull, do
you ? ' said Tristram, with a quick look at
the speaker.

No ; not now. The only thing I wish
for is her happiness, and I doubt Whether I
could bring that about by breaking Captain
Cunningham's head. If I thought that I
could, I should be very pleased to do it — and
to be hung for it,' answered Jacob, composedly.


Tristram knocked the ashes out of his
pipe, which he replaced in his pocket, and
then, getting up, laid one of his large, heavy
hands upon the young man's shoulder.
Stiles,' said he, ' this sort of thing Avon't do.
You have got into a nasty, morbid state of
mind ; you have been in it for a long time ;
5^ou were in it when you painted that picture,
which is an unpleasant picture, though it's a
powerful one — and you must fight your way
back to sanity again. I know pretty well
how you feel ; perhaps I have had some experience
of the same kind myself; and perhaps
I may once have thought that I shouldn't
mind breaking a certain person's head and
being hiring for it. But men like you and me
were sent into this world to do something
better than to get ourselves hung. Candidly
speaking, I suspect that I am a stronger man,
mentally as well as physically, than you are.
Therefore I don't advise you simply to stay at
home and stick to your work, which is what I
did. I advise you to try the effect of a complete
change of life and scene. Get out of

England ; widen your horizon ; see as much of
the world as you can. The world isn't Paradise,
I grant you ; but there's a good deal of
honest enjoyment to be got out of it, and,
anyhow, it is better to be contented with it
than to cry for the moon. Now, look here ;
I don't know anything about your means or
resources ; but if there is any difficulty about
money, you must let me help you out. Weare
fellow workers, and it is the privilege of
an old bachelor, who has more money than he
knows what to do with, to lend a hand to the
young ones, who haven't had time to lay by
much yet.'

Thank you, Mr. Tristram,' answered
Jacob ; ' it is very kind of you to make such
an offer, and still more kind of you to compare
me to yourself; because there can be no
real comparison between us — of any kind.
But I can quite well afford to go abroad, and
I hope never to be any man's debtor again.'
He continued, after a moment of silence :
Perhaps I will take your advice. I have
been thinking of going away for some time

past, and very likely I shall go ; I can't say
for certain yet. There is one thing that I
should be glad to consult you about, if I may.'

I am quite at your service,' answered
Tristram.

Well, you see I have represented Cain
with a ploughshare in his hand. Could that
be called an anachronism, do you think? '

I'm sure I don't know. He was a tiller
of the field ; so I presume that he must have
had a ploughshare of some kind.'

He might have had a wooden one ; only
that would almost presuppose the possession
of some sharp cutting instrument. People
are particular about these accessories nowadays
; it wasn't so in the time of the old
masters. Now, do you consider that art ought
or ought not to be independent of such
absolute fidelity to facts P '

In this way the wily Jacob effected a
change of subject, and eventually got rid of
his visitor without any further references to
Mrs. Herbert or Captain Cunningham.

CHAPTEE XL.
Jacob's confessions

Sto One, however honest and blameless, can
expect to live tlirongli his allotted term in
this world without hndincr himself in one or
two awkward situations. It must be extremely
awkward for two sovereigns who
have just been at war to embrace after the
conclusion of peace ; even two parliamentary
opponents who have been accusing one another
(in parliamentary language) of knavery
and imbecility, and mean to do it again on
the first opportunity, may feel some passing
awkwardness when they meet in private
life ; and certainly it is very awkward fora
lady who has received a protestation of
unalterable love to be called upon to congratulate
the protestor upon his engagement to

somebody else. At any rate, Hope thought
so. Her pleasure at Bertie Cunningham's
engagement to her sister-in-law was seriously
interfered with by her perplexity as
to what she should say to him upon the
subject : indeed, she went so far as to ask
herself whether it was absolutely necessary
that she should say anything at all. But this
was only a passing weakness. The bad
moment obviously could not be shirked ; and
when it came, it proved to be not such a very
bad moment after all.

Bertie, as in duty bound, came to call in
Bruton Street on the 'day succeeding that of
his proposal and acceptance, and Hope after
a short time descended to the drawing-room,
where, fortified by the presence of Carry, she
said what was suitable in as few words as
might be. Bertie replied somewhat perfunctorily,
but without embarrassment. ' Thanks,
awfully,' he said. ' You were quite prepared
to hear of it, I know. I mean, I have never
made any secret to you of what my — wishes
were.'

He could not help that slight pause before
the word ' wishes,' which Hope was free to
interpret as she chose. Perhaps he meant
her to understand that there were other
things connected with his past and present
conduct which he had been and was equally
unable to help,

I cannot accuse myself of having concealed
my wishes either,' observed Carry,
with rather inopportune self-satire ; ' so the
customary exclamations of pleased surprise
may be omitted on this occasion.'

After that it Alas not very easy to make
any further remarks, exclamatory or other ;
but Hope had made up her mind to be very
gracious and to let bygones be bygones. She
had also made up her mind that Dick's prohibition
no longer applied, under the altered
circumstances, and that Bertie might now be
asked down to Farndon, whither she herself
was most anxious to return. So she said : ' I
don't think we shall be in London much
longer — that is, unless Carry has a great deal
of shopping to do — but I hope you will come

and stay with us in the country, Captain
Cunningham, when we go. I am sure Berkshire
air must be better than London fogs for
an invalid.'

Bertie murmured that he shoukl be delighted.
He could say no less ; although in
truth the prospect held out to him did not
strike him as being precisely fraught with
delightful promises.

But Carry looked grateful. ' I have done
all my shopping for the present,' she declared,
^ and we will make a move as soon as you like,
Hope. It will be fearfully dull work for you,
I am afraid,' she added, with a touch of compunction
; ' but I suppose you really do prefer
the country to London.'

I really do,' answered Hope, smiling ;
and I shall try and induce Jacob Stiles to
come and keep me company.'

It was a proof of Miss Herbert's altered
sentiments towards her sister-in-law that she
did not merely shrug her shoulders at this
speech, but took the trouble to excuse it for
Bertie's benefit. ' There is a sort of .

III.

masonry between artists,' she was good
enough to explain. ' They have all kinds of
things to say to each other which we commonplace
people can't enter into.'

No doubt,' agreed Bertie, gravely ; and
presently he asked his fiancee whether she
wasn't thinking of looking up Mrs. Pierpoint
about tea-time. Because, if she was, he would
walk round there with her.

So that is the end of it all ! ' thought
Hope, when she was left in sole possession of
the drawing-room ; and it cannot be denied
that the lameness and impotence of the conclusion
caused a spice of annoyance to be
mingled with her sense of relief It was a
little humiliating to have shouted ' Fire ! ' to
the four winds of heaven about a conflagration
which one jug of cold water, promptly
administered, would probably have sufficed to
subdue. She was still unable to understand
Bertie Cunningham : it was difficult to her to
believe that any man could be so fickle, so
self-seeking and so little ashamed of being seen
in his true colours ; but she felt that she

understood him rather better than she had done
a few months back, and it occurred to her that
if she had known him then as she knew him
now, she would have troubled herself less
about his offence — would perhaps even have
refrained from mentioning it to her Husband.
Yet surely it was best to tell the whole
truth,' lie thought. ' At least, Dick will
never be able to say that I have concealed
anything from him ; and when he comes

back '

Then suddenly it struck her that she had
now an excellent reason for hastening the
date of Dick's return. It seemed unlikely that
either Bertie or Carry would desire a long engagement,
and the fitness of things clearly
required that the head of the family should
be in England in time to give away his sister
on her marriage. Hope resolved that she
would get the wedding-day fixed with all
possible despatch, and that the same letter
which conveyed the news of the engagement
to Dick should place before him the desirability
of his at once quitting savage life for



civilisation. By dint of longing for his
return, she had persuaded herself that all
things would go well when that event should

CD c

take place. True, what had happened was
no more than what he had predicted ; but it
was not upon the proof of Bertie's instability
that Hope counted to gain her husband's
affection. What she knew for certain was
that he would find in her a very different
woman from the one whom he had left ; and
a smile spread itself over her face as she
began to calculate how long it would be
before Dick could possibly reach Europe, and
to wonder how she would contrive to while
away the time during the interval. This
reminded her of Jacob Stiles ; and she was
just about to compose a friendly little note
to that recluse when Mr. Stiles himself was
announced.

Jacob, fresh from the interview with
Tristram which has been described and from
certain prolonged musings of his own which
lead followed it, exhibited a countenance
somewhat graver and more morose than

usual ; but Hope, who had learnt how to
manage him, and was aware that it always
took fully five minutes of careful management
to make him smile, assumed that he was only
in his normal state of dissatisfaction with
things in general.

At last ! ' she exclaimed, as she shook
hands with him. ' I really did not think that
you would have allowed us to be in London
without finding out where Bruton Street is.
I was upon the point of writing to you to ask
what you meant by being so unfriendly ; but
since you have come without being summoned
I suppose you must be forgiven.'

Jacob leant against the mantelpiece and
looked down at the fire. ' I generally prefer
to wait until I am summoned,' he said,
slowly.

I know you do, and that is just what I
complain of. If all one's friends acted upon
that principle what a lively existence one
would lead ! '

But I am not one of your friends, Mrs.
Herbert.'

Thank you. Your remarks have the
merit of candour, at any rate.'

Jacob frowned instead of smiling. ' I
think you know what I mean,' he returned.
In one way of speaking you have been more
than a friend to me ; but not even your kindness
can ever put me in the position of your
equal ; and so '

And so, because you will persist in that
utterly absurd and wrong notion, I am to go
down on my knees to you every time that I
want you to come and see me.'

No ; only I cannot come to your house
without being asked. You would not mind
my calling like an ordinary visitor ; but other
people might.'

I don't know what other people have a
right to object to my visitors,' answered
Hope ; ' but at all events, I am glad that you
have been inconsistent enough to call to-day.'

Ah, that is an exception. I came to-day
because perhaps I may not see you again fora
long time. I am thinking of going abroad.'

Oh, are you ? I am so sorry ! ' cried

Hope, iu a tone of sincere disappointment. ' I
had been rather counting upon getting you to
keep me company at Farndon and give me a
few more art-lectures.'

Are you going back to Farndon, then ? '
asked Jacob, looking up at her for the first
time. ' If you would really care to have me
there, I will join you and stay as long as I am
wanted, with the greatest pleasure.'

Oh, no,' answered Hope, laughing a little
at the promptitude of his self-sacrifice ; ' it is
very good of you to suggest it ; but of course
I must not interfere with your plans.'

I have no plans, properly speaking ; only
a very vague scheme. Will you be alone at
Farndon ? '

Carry will be with me, and Captain
Cunningham — in spite of which, I expect to
be a good deal alone. But that is really nota
sufficient reason for your giving up any
scheme, however vague it may be.'

I consider it more than a sufficient
reason,' answered Jacob, decisively. ' It is
such a rare sensation to me to feel that I can

be of the slightest service to anyone that I hope
you will allow me to indulge in that luxury
for once. As for my journey, it is a matter
of no consequence whether I set out upon it
next week, or next month, or next year.'

Hope protested a little longer; but did
not venture to hint, as she might have done
to a less morbidly sensitive person, that her
desire for his society was not, after all, so
very strong as to override all other considerations.
She would have been very much
astonished, had she been informed of the
nature of the service which Jacob believed
himself to be about to render to her. To
that mistaken observer the position of affairs
was as clear as daylight. Hope dreaded the
many opportunities which country-house life
must afford Captain Cunningham of seeking a
private interview with her ; she wished to
interpose some shield between herself and the
man whom she loved, but had no right to
love ; and he (Jacob) was only too glad to be
made use of in that humble capacity, although
lie did not see why Captain Cunningham need

have been invited to Farndon at all. After it
had been agreed that he should postpone his
visit to foreign countries, for a time at any
rate, he harked back to the subject which
was always more or less in his thoughts and
far too often upon his lips.

I am glad you are going back to Pardon,'
he said. ' If it is any amusement to you
to take painting or riding lessons, I can give
them to you there, and nobody will see anything
particularly extraordinary in it, unless
it is Miss Herbert, who has never been able
to understand why I should not be relegated
to the servants' hall ; but in London of course
I could not thrust myself upon you. At
least, I could not run the risk of seeming to
thrust myself upon your friends.'

Why will you harp so perpetually upon
that string ? ' exclaimed Hope, with a shade
of impatience. ' It is useless for me to tell
you that you are all wrong about it, and you
seem determined to shut your eyes to what
is obvious to everybody else. It is you yourself
who attach such importance to birth, not

the rest of the world. You have only to lookin
the newspapers to see that society is not so
senseless as to shut its doors against distinguished
men merely because their fathers did
not happen to be distinguished too.' And she
brought forward a list of well-known soldiers,
lawyers, and artists, in support of her statement.


But Jacob shook his head. ' I have been
a pariah for too many years to become anything
else now,' he said. 'Besides, my case
is not quite the same as that of the men whom
you mention. They may, for anything that
I know to the contrary, have had rascals for
fathers ; but they have at least not been
rascals themselves.'

Do you lay claim to be a rascal ? ' inquired
Hope, laughing.

I was branded as one long ago,' answered
Jacob, gravely, ' and the mark won't wash off.
Perhaps I had better tell you about it now.
I have always meant to tell you some day,
and when you have heard my story you will
see why I can't be your friend. At least, I

suppose you will. Personally, I think that I
have been hardly used — if that matters.'

'If it is anything very — disagreeable, I
don't want to be told about it,' interposed
Hope, quickly. ' You say it happened long
ago ; and I would rather judge of my friends
as I lind them than hear what they were
before I knew them. Though I don't believe
that you were ever a rascal,' she added.

Oh, yes, I was,' returned Jacob. ' I
grant you that the same thing might be said
of three very respectable men out of any
chance four ; but then the difference between
me and the three respectable ones is that their
offences have not been against property. Just
consider the Ten Commandments ; after all,
there are only two of them, the Eighth and
the Ninth, which a man is really considered to
dishonour himself by breaking. The Sixth
hardly counts ; there are sure to be extenuating
circumstances for a gentleman who commits
a breach of the Sixth Commandment.
But it is agreed upon all hands that he cannot
be a gentleman at all if he breaks the Eighth ;

and, unluckily for me, the Eighth Commandment
was precisely the one which I selected
for defiance.'

He paused and threw one of his quick
sidelong glances at Hope, whose countenance
showed some embarrassment. Upon the spur
of the moment, she was not prepared to deny
that a thief is a rascal ; so she thought she
would remain silent until she should be
placed in possession of fuller information.

Jacob noticed her hesitation and went on
with a somewhat increased bitterness of tone :
The story might be made long ; but I don't
know that that would improve it. Nothing
can alter or extenuate the fact that I forged
your husband's name and robbed him of two
hundred pounds.'

Oh ! What made you do that ? ' exclaimed
Hope, involuntarily.

I have often wondered. It is true that
I was afraid of him, and that I had disobeyed
him by backing horses — a thing which he
had strictly forbidden me to do, at the same
time exposing me to temptations which most

boys would have found irresistible. Still, if
I had made a clean breast of it, he would
most likely have paid what I owed and forgiven
me. Being a rascal, I did not do that,
but had recourse to a forged cheque. Either
because I was very young or because I was
clean out of my senses, I fancied that the
fraud would not be discovered ; but of course
it was discovered at once, and the natural
consequence followed.'

What do you mean ? ' asked Hope.

Well, upon second thoughts, perhaps it
wasn't the natural consequence. He didn't
hand me over to the police, he only horse-whipped
me.'

Hope could not repress a slight shudder.
The thought of physical punishment always
appeals forcibly to the imagination of women,
and it is not easy for them to help despising a
man who has been flogged. Moreover, Jacob's
voice was cold and hard, with little of the
ring of penitence in it. However, when she
looked at him and saw that he was pale to
the lips, her heart became softened. ' I am

sorry that Dick did that,' she said, gently ;
it was not like him.'

Pardon me, I think it was extremely like
him ; and what was still more like him was
the way in which he treated me afterwards —
the way in which he has continued to treat
me up to this present day. Mrs. Herbert, I
don't complain of the horsewhipping ; how
could I complain of it? It was just and it
was merciful. No man ever deserved a
thrashing more thoroughly than I did ; and
if I had been kicked out of the house after it
was over, I might still have considered that I
had been let off cheaply. What was not just
and what was most cruel, at least in my
opinion, was to make me suffer all mj lifelong
for a sin, which, bad as it was, was more
like the act of a madman than of a responsible
being. I didn't expect him to believe in my
repentance all at once ; he would have been a
fool if he had believed in it. But when I had
given him proofs, when I had worked hard for
years, allowing myself no amusements, spending
next to no money, and leading as honest

and sober a life as a man could lead, surely lie
might have consented to blot out the past ! But
he never has consented. He has never forgotten
that I am a forger, never seemed to
think it possible that I might recover my lost
position, never for one moment ceased to
despise me from the bottom of his heart.
That is not justice ; and that is what I have
a right to resent.'

I am perfectly certain you are under a
delusion,' interposed Hope. ' Dick can never
have intended to behave to you in that way.'

But Jacob, who had been speaking with
unwonted excitement, and whose pale cheeks
were now slightly flushed, went on, without
heeding her : ' I have just finished a picture
representing Cain ; Mr. Tristram, who saw it
this morning, said the features were like
my own. I daresay they are ; I daresay I
am like Cain in more ways than one. I have
always felt sorry for Cain and for poor Esau
and the rest of the unlucky sinners in the
Old Testament, who " found no place of repentance,
though they sought it carefully with

tears." No place of repentance ! When one
reads that one feels that it can't be true ;
human nature revolts against the purposeless
cruelty of such a doom. And yet that is the
doom which your husband would like to pass
upon me and upon everybody who has
transgressed the limits of his narrow and
arbitrary code. He forsooth, would lay
down the law ! He would say, " This sin shall
be pardoned and that shall not " — he, who is
himself so immaculate, so unselfish, so considerate'
of others ! Oh, I know that I owe
everything to him ; I can't pay my debt, do
what I may. I paid him the two hundred
pounds that I stole from him, and he tossed
the money into a drawer. We can never cry
quits ; I admit that. But I deny that I owe
him any affection.'

This harangue astonished Hope as much
as it distressed her. She had seen enough of
Jacob's manner of life at Farndon to know that
his grievance was not altogether imaginary ;
but she could not acquiesce in his distorted
view of Dick's character.

'Don't you think,' she said, gently, ' that
you may be doing Dick an injustice in fancying
that he has done you one ? I have never
heard him speak of you with anything but
kindness — certainly never with contempt.
And you must remember,' she added, more
with the object of putting an end to a painful
conversation than because she resented Jacob's
strictures, ' that he is my husband.'

But Jacob's emotion had carried him out
of himself, and he took no notice of a hint
which at ordinary times he would have been
the first to accept. ' I am not likely to forget
that ! ' he exclaimed. ' If he had been a good
husband to you — if he had done his duty to
you, or even attempted to do it, that would
have been something in his favour ; but his
code contains no such obligations.' And then
as Hope was about to speak — ' Mrs. Herbert,
you know that he has not made you happy.
Can you honestly say that you have been
happy with him ? '

It would have been easy for Hope to
silence her questioner, who was undoubtedly

Vol. III. P

forgetting himself in putting so indiscreet a
query ; but she had a feeling that it would be
ungenerous to do this, and it had never been
easy to her to tell a lie. So she made what,
under all the circumstances, was a somewhat
unfortunate answer :

If our life has not been as happy as it
might have been,' she said, dropping her eyes
and blushing a little, ' that is entirely my own
fault

Her reply produced an unexpectedly sobering
effect upon Jacob, who sighed, as lie
moved a few paces away from the hearth,
where he had been standing. 'Yes,' he
murmured presently, speaking rather to ]himself
than to her, ' it has been your own fault.
At any rate, you would be sure to say so, and
I don't know that I should wish you to say
anything else ; you would not be yourself if
you did. Yet you are not really to blame ;
and the worst of it is that you can never be
happy with Herbert. The whole world seems
to have got askew, somehow.'

Of course it does, if we look askeAv at it,'

returned Hope. 'Please don't talk like this
any more. When Dick comes back — ^^vhicli
will be in a few months I hope — we will 
set the world straight again ; and perhaps
that won't be such a hard matter as you
suppose. I can quite see that he may have
seemed to be unjust to you ; but, depend upon
it, it Alas only seeming. I am sure he will be
as grieved as I am when he hears how you
have suffered. Whatever he may be, he is
not hard-hearted.'

You at least are not, Mrs. Herbert,' said
Jacob, smiling for the first time. ' You always
see the good in everybody — even when
there isn't very much to be seen. After what
I have told you, you can't think very well
of me ; but I daresay you think that I have
atoned for my crime as far as it can be atoned
for.'

I don't think it was a crime at all,'
answered Hope ; ' I think it was what you
called it just now, an act of madness. Besides,
I suppose til at not many of us have repented
of our sins as you have.'

Jacob took her hand and raised it silently
to his lips.

And now,' she continued, ' let us put the
whole subject out of sight until Dick comes
back. By-the-way, I have never told you all
this time that we are to have a wedding in
the family soon. Carry accepted Captain
Cunningham yesterday.'

'What?' exclaimed Jacob, starting back
in amazement.

And then Hope suddenly remembered that
afternoon when Jacob had brought her a note
which she had torn in pieces before his eyes.
The recollection brought the colour into her
face. Doubtless Jacob, like everybody else
(only With rather more excuse than other
people), had conceived a mistaken idea of her
feelings for Captain Cunningham. It was
provoking ; but she had no desire to enter
upon another explanation with regard to that
affair ; and she was beginning hurriedly :
There is nothing to be surprised at — ' when,
much to her relief, the door was opened and
in sailed Lady Jane Lefrov.

Lady Jane embraced her niece affectionately.
' My dear Hope, so delighted to see
you again ! We only came up yesterday ; and
this afternoon I met your friend, Mrs. Pier-point,
who told me the good news. Isn't that
Mr. Stiles? How do you do, Mr. Sales ? I remember
you quite well at Farndon, where you
were so clever about arranging the theatricals,
and that bust that fell down and broke poor
Captain Cunningham's leg. I have always
been hoping to have an opportunity of telling
you how charmed I was with your pictures
in the last Academy.'

Lady Jane was overflowing with satisfaction
and geniality. She sat down and asked
if she might be allowed a cup of tea ; and as
Jacob saw that he would have no more private
conversation with Hope that afternoon, he
soon took his departure.

CHAPTER XLI.

m THE WOODS.

Not long ago two old friends were discussing
a proposition, boldly enunciated by the one
and courteously combated by the other.
What you say sounds plausible enough,' the
latter observed ; ' but as, unfortunately, facts
are against you, I am afraid there is a flaw in
sour theory.' And straightway he adduced
the facts alluded to, which, indeed, were not
such as to admit of denial. ' I can't help that,'
returned the theorist. ' I know I am right ;
and, therefore, if there is a flaw anywhere, it
must be in the facts.' That closed the debate.
Jacob Stiles, if less audacious than this
lady — it is perhaps hardly necessary to
mention that the disputant was a lady — was
not less tenacious of his theories ; nor, even

ill the face of such a fact as Captain Cunningham's
engagement to Miss Herbert, could he
bring himself to believe that for so many
months past he had been labouring under a
complete misapprehension. Certainly lie had
been staggered by Hope's communication ;
but after turning it over in his mind awhile,
he perceived that what had occurred was not
so very inexplicable, after all. ' Partly pique
and partly prudence,' was the conclusion at
which he arrived. ' The fellow is hard up, I
suspect ; he would like Miss Herbert's money
well enough, and no doubt he has sufficient
worldly wisdom to see the absurdity of remaining
single and losing a fortune for the
sake of a woman who won't give him any
encouragement. I wonder whether it wouldn't
be almost better to let him go ! How can one
tell P He is not worthy to be named on the
same day with her ; but then I knew that
before. I won't do anything yet ; I will go
down to Farndon and watch them. But if I
see that she cares for him still, and that the loss
of him would make her wretched for ever — '

Jacob did not put the remainder of his
sentence into words, even mentally. There
are thoughts with which the mind may be
perfectly familiar, but which never find expression
until the moment for action comes ;
and to Jacob that moment had not yet come,
though he had long foreseen its approach.
During the ensuing week he put the finishing
touches to his picture of Cain, and, as soon
as the canvas was dry, forwarded it, together
with the following note, to Tristram's
house : — ,

Dear Mr. Tristram, — It is not unlikely that
I may be out of reach of communication in
the early part of next year. As you are
aware, I have no friends whom I can ask to
act for me in my absence, except yourself.
Your kindness has induced me to believe that
I may take a liberty with you, and therefore
I venture to beg that you will give my picture
house-room until the proper time comes for
submitting it to the Committee of the Eoyal
Academy, and that you will then send it in in

my name. Should I return to England before
that date, I will of course relieve you of your
charge ; but most probably I shall soon make
for some outlandish part of the world ; and it
has occurred to me that, if I where to die orbe
killed, you might be in doubt as to what
to do with the picture. So I will just mention
that, in that event, I should like you to accept
it as a small token of gratitude from

Your faithful and obliged servant,

Jacob Stiles.
Pes. — In case of the picture becoming
your property, pray do as you may think best
with regard to showing it publicly ; but I may
say that my own wish would be decidedly
that it should be exhibited.'

This was not the only sign that Jacob
contemplated a prolonged and distant tour.
Hitherto he had been in the habit of leaving
the greater part of his few earthly possessions
in Gower Street ; but now he packed all these
up, paid his landlady a year's rent in advance,
and informed her that he could fix no date

for his return. He might be back in a few
months, or he might (life being uncertain)
never come back at aU.

You haven't found me a very troublesome
tenant, I think, Mrs. Jones ? ' he said,
hesitatingly.

No, indeed, sir; fur from it, sir,' answered
the landlady, eyeing her cheque lovingly.

And — er — you would be sorry to lose
me, I daresay?'

That I should, sir.'

Oh, well,' said Jacob, in an altered tone,
I suppose all landladies would be sorry to
lose a tenant who paid his rent and didn't
make a row. Good-bye, Mrs. Jones.'

'Good-bye, sir,' returned Mrs. Jones, cheerfully,
' and a pleasant journey to you.'

It is a fact that she had no personal
affection for her silent lodger, and was far
from imagining that he was appealing to her
for an expression of any such sentiment. Yet
that was what he had been appealing for to
anybody and everybody (in a most unintelligible
fashion, no doubt) all his life ; and

only two persons, Hope and Tristram, had
responded in the smallest degree. He bade
farewell to Gower Street without regret, and
in the evening reached Farndon, whither the
family had preceded him by a few days.

Hope, sitting at her writing-table by the
window, saw him drive up and waved her
hand to him, which friendly signal he acknowledged
by a grave bow. After he had
disappeared, she devoted several minutes to
pitying poor Jacob and promising herself that
his life should be made less dreary for him in
the future than it had been in the past. She
had not been displeased by the harsh things
that he had said of her husband, because she '
had divined the attachment and the longing
for forgiveness which had prompted them.
Also she thought that, if she had been in
Jacob's place, she would have been to the full
as sore and angry as he. What worse fate,
indeed, could befall any mortal than that of
being sent to Coventry by Dick? However,
she was too busy with a certain letter upon
which she was just then engaged to bestow

more than a commiserating thought or two
upon Jacob Stiles.

They talk of the middle of June for the
wedding,' she wrote, resuming her interrupted
sentence ; ' but both of them say that they
Avould rather put it off for some weeks than
be married while you are away. I am sure
you will not mind coming back a little sooner
than you had intended, though Carry seems
to think that you may. She is writing to you
herself, and she tells me that there is no real
necessity for your return — I mean as regards
drawing up settlements and all that — but she
does very much wish you to be present ; and
so do I.' The last word was erased (not,
however, in such a manner as to render it illegible),
and ' we all ' substituted.

Captain Cunningham came down yesterday,'
the writer continued, ' and will stay for
some time, I suppose. I would not ask him
before because of what you said about it ; but
I thought I might take it for granted that
you would not disapprove of his being here
now. He means to give up the army, I

believe, and they are to live in Yorkshire.
Carry says there will be so much to do in the
way of alterations and additions to the house
that they will want no other occupation for
several years to come. They seem to be
really fond of each other and are always
talking over plans. Of course, though, I do
not see much of them.'

The letter was continued in the same
somewhat formal and laboured style for
another half-page, and ended up with a polite
hope that game had been plentiful and that
English life would not be found very tame
after the exciting experiences which were
doubtless to be met with daily among the
mountains of the far West. The fact was
that Hope had not found the composition of
this epistle by any means an easy task. She
did not want to tell Dick how very eager she
"was to see him again ; at the same time she
was terribly afraid lest, in this easy-going, unconventional
way, he should declare that his
sister was old enough to take care of herself,
and could get married without any need for

Ms support. Then, too, it had been extremely
difficult to write about Bertie Cunningham
without either saying what was untrue or
what would have been better left unsaid ; so
that, upon the whole, the letter was not a
success, and she knew that it was not, although
she could not see her way to improving
it.

In the absence of a request which Hope,
after some vacillation, thought it wiser to
withhold, Jacob did not appear at the dinner-table
that evening ; nor was he to be discovered
in his studio when sought for the
next day. It appeared, upon inquiry, that
he had been seen to leave the house on foot
at an early hour, and it was partly with the
expectation of encountering him, partly in
order to leave the entire house and garden at
the disposal of the engaged couple, that Hope
herself strolled across the park soon after
breakfast, and made for the bare woodlands
that overshadowed the lake. In that direction,
as she knew, Jacob most commonly bent
his steps, and it was among those trees that

she had often come upon hin, pacing slowly
along, with his hands behind his back and his
head sunk upon his breast, in gloomy meditation.


Her own meditations, that morning, were
not quite as cheerful as they might have been.
Having for some days past been buoying herself
up with hopes that her troubles might be
approaching an end, it was not surprising that
she should now begin to experience a reaction,
and should ask herself what real ground there
was for supposing that the future would differ
from the past. Why should it ? There was
a great deal of truth in what Jacob had said
and implied about her husband. The distinctive
feature of Dick's character was its
unchangeableness. He had made up his mind
to a marriage without love ; he had weighed
the advantages and disadvantages of such a
union, and would probably never have regretted
entering upon it, had he not become
convinced that his wife had fallen in love with
Bertie Cunningham. Whether that conviction
could now l)c removed, and whether, if it

were removed, lie would ever be anything
more than a considerate friend to her, Hope
felt to be doubtful. She could not help fearing
that it was too late — that she had let her
opportunity go by. In the early days of
their married Hfe she might possibly have
made him love her ; but now — ? The wind,
sweeping through the naked boughs and
driving a few of last year's dead leaves before
it, seemed to sigh ' Too late ! ' Nature, as all
the world knows, can be eloquent enough
upon occasion ; but those who wish to hear
her true voice must approach her without
pre-occupations of their own ; and as this is
not a common condition among mortals,
Nature for most of us only acts the part of
an echo or a mirror. Beneath Hope's feet
early violets were peeping out here and
there ; above her head the buds were tipped
with green ; in the pale sunshine and the mild
air there was promise of spring. These things
ought to have suggested to her that sorrow
is no more eternal than joy, that fair weather
must follow rain, and summer winter ; and

that there is always a good time coming for
those who have the patience to wait for it ;
but what they actually did suggest to her was
that every dog has his day, that new years
are for new people, and that the past never
returns. Therefore she sighed as she went
her was', and, failing to discover Jacob Stiles
(to whom she would have been glad to confide
a measure of her forebodings, with a
view to being contradicted), ended by turning
round and heading for the house again.

Presently lier ear caught the sound of an
approaching footstep, then an abrupt bend
in the path along which she was walking
brought her face to face — not with Jacob
Stiles, but with a far less welcome intruder
upon her solitude.

All by yourself, Captain Cunningham ? '
was her greeting, not very cordially spoken.
Where is Carry ? '

Writing letters indoors,' answered Bertie,
throwing away the end of his cigar. ' I saw
you going off in this direction,' he added, 'and
it occurred to me that I would follow you.'

Vol. III. Q

Hope looked as though she thought he
might have had a happier inspiration. ' I am
going home now,' she remarked.

Then, if you don't mind, I'll walk with
you,' said Bertie.

To this she made no reply ; so he turned
and accompanied her for some little distance
without opening his lips. ' This is the first
time that I have seen ^^ou alone since — since
last summer,' he observed at length.

Yes.' she answered, briefly.

Mrs. Herbert — is it peace ? '

She turned upon him with a quick, impatient
frown. Why would he not consent
to let well alone ? It seemed to her that his
question Alas in. the worst conceivable taste ;
but it might be better to answer it, once for
all. ' Of course it is peace,' she said ; ' but
please never refer to this again.'

I promise you that I won't after to-day,*
he answered, with something? of a sisfh. And
then : ' I wonder wdiat you think of me ! '

Hope was upon the point of saying : ' I
don't think about you at all;' and this, no

doubt, would have been the best and most
conclusive answer to make. But remembering,
somewhat unseasonably, that she was
indebted to Bertie Cunningham for most, if
not all, of the sorrows which lead come upon
her, she was constrained to reply : ' I don't
know wdiy you should wish to hear my
opinion of you. You must be curiously
sanguine if you expect it to be a flattering
one.'

But of course I don't expect that,' said
Bertie, humbly ; ' all I wanted to know was
whether it was so bad as to prevent the
possibility of our ever being friends again.'

Well, since you ask me, I think it is.
That is to say, if by friends you mean intimate
friends. But perhaps you only mean
that it would be very inconvenient for us to
be enemies. There I quite agree with you ;
so you need feel no alarm on that score.
When we meet, I shall not behave in such a
way as to excite remark.'

In other words, 1 have forfeited your
friendship for ever. I suppose I have no

q2

right to complain ; but I must say that I
think it a severe sentence. Perhaps it doesn't
seem so to you, because you don't know how
much I value your friendship. I should have
thought you might have pardoned me now.
Once — just for one moment — I lost my head
and let out what I ought to have kept to
myself. I was very sorry for it afterwards,
and I told you so ; and it is an offence which
certainly can never be repeated. Whether I
had any excuse or not '

There would be no excuse,' broke in
Hope. ' If you want me to say that I forgive
you, I will do so willingly ; I could have said
as much as that long ago. But it is quite
out of my power to think of you as I used to
think.'

But why ? You never thought too well
of me ; you knew I was no better than other
fellows. I fancied that you knew even that
—that '

Never ! ' exclaimed Hope. ' I did not
suspect you of it for one moment.'

'You speak as though it had been a crime.

How can one help — However, I won't risk
offending you again. Only you might take
into consideration the circumstance that it
was I, not you, who suffered.'

Hope stood still for a moment and stared
at him. She forgot that, not being in possession
of all the facts, he might hold such an
opinion with sincerity ; the depth of his
selfishness seemed to her simply amazing.

Do you really mean that ? ' she exclaimed.
Or do you say it merely because you have
got into the habit of saying that kind of
thing ? In what way have you suffered ? I,
who was innocent, have had to suffer in a
hundred ways ; but you have never considered
anyone but yourself all along. A year
ago, when we where so much together in
London, you must have known perfectly
Avell — though I did not — that I should be
accused of flirting with you ; you must have
known that people like Lady Chatterton
woidd put the worst construction upon what
I only meant for friendliness ; and I should
think you must have guessed that impertinent

things would be said to me about it.
At all events, they cere said. But that was
nothing. It was horrid, and it made me
miserable at the time ; still it was nothing in
comparison with what happened afterwards.
Dick would never have gone away and left
me if you had not as you say " lost your
head" and spoken to me as you did; and if
Dick and I remain estranged all our lives, it
will be your doing. And then you pretend
that you have not made me suffer ! '

Bertie's eyes became very round and his
jaw dropped slightly. What was even more
startling than Hope's vehemence was the
unexpected revelation of her love for her
husband. That she actually was in love
with her husband he could not doubt. A
fact ; but surely a most marvellous one !

I — I'm awfully sorry,' he stammered.
But don't you think you must be mistaken
I mean, about the reason of Herbert's
<lom<^ to America ? It couldn't have been
on account of that for he never can have
known of it.'

I told him of it,' answered Hope, quietly.

Bertie's eyes grew rounder than ever.
Good gracious ! ' he exclaimed ; ' you didn't
do that!'

Yes, I did. It was a foolish thing to do,
perhaps — at any rate, you would consider it
so — but I didn't choose to have any secrets
from him. He was not surprised, nor particularly
shocked ; lie knew exactly how it
would end, and he told me that you would
propose to Carry before long — just as you
have done.'

Bertie bit his lip. He walked on for
some minutes in silence, and it may be
assumed that his thoughts were not of the
pleasantness nature. Hope, meanwhile, lagged
behind and surreptitiously wiped away the
tears which had risen into her eyes. Already
lie was a little ashamed of having displayed
her feelings so openly ; yet she was not sorry
that Bertie should be made acquainted with
the truth.

But even if Herbert did know what I
was going to do so much better than I knew

myself,' lie said, when lie joined him again,
I don't quite understand why that should
have made him leave the country.'

At any rate,' she returned, ' you must
understand that our old friendship cannot
very well be revived ; but there is no use in
talking about it any more. Let us drop the
subject nov. Whatever my future may be,
you may be sure that I shall not trouble you
with any more reproaches.'

'But indeed,' exclaimed Bertie, eagerly,
it isn't so bad as you think. I'll speak to
Herbert as soon as he comes back — that
much, at least, I can do in the way of
reparation. There is still time to correct a
mistake, and I don't see what should prevent
your future from being happy. Herbert will
be back in a couple of months, I suppose, or

sooner ; and Hullo, Stiles ! where on earth

did you drop from ? I wish sou wouldn't
make a man jump out of his skin in that
way ! '

I beg your pardon,' said the subject of
this apostrophe, who had bounded into the

path from above, without any warning ; ' I
missed my footing and came down the bank
more quickly than I intended.'

Perhaps it was the velocity of his descent
that made him so pale. He took off his hat
to Hope, but avoided looking at her ; and a
rather awkward pause ensued. Bertie was
disconcerted and angry, fearing that his last
words had been overheard, and suspecting
Jacob of having played the eavesdropper ;
Jacob himself, standing in the middle of the
path with downcast eyes, neither moved nor
spoke. He seemed to be hardly conscious of
Avhere he was ; and it was only when Hope
said : ' We are going homewards ; Avill you
come with us?' that he started and roused
himself.

I — no, thank you — I will walk a little
farther, I think,' he replied hurriedly : and,
with another bow, he plunged into the undergrowth
and was soon out of sight.

It must be confessed that Bertie's suspicions
were not wholly unfounded. A gentleman,
as everyone will agree, is incapable

of acting the part of a spy ; but poor
Jacob Stiles, who was not a gentleman, may
have been slightly deficient in respect of delicate
points of honour and may have drawn
distinctions between deliberate espionage and
mere casual use of the senses with which
Nature had endowed him. Such distinctions
ought not to be drawn ; and Jacob was
punished for his casuistry by seeing and
hearing too much and too little. Wandering
through the woods, with no worse intention
than to seek relief for a troubled mind,
he had discerned the two persons about
whom his mind was chiefly troubled progressing
slowly, side by side, at a somewhat
lower level, and had paused for a moment to
watch them. Then, when he had seen Hope
take out her handkerchief and raise it to her
eyes, the temptation to approach them
stealthily had been irresistible, and he had
yielded to it. Thus he had come Within
earshot just in time to hear Captain Cunningham
declare that a mistake might yet be
corrected and that Hope's future might be

happy. Also that Herbert would not be
home for another two months. It was at this
particularly unlucky juncture that Jacob's
foot slipped and that he interrupted the
colloquy, as above related. From what had
reached his ears he could deduce but one
inference ; and that it was not of a very agreeable
kind was shown by the frown which
contracted his brow, as he brushed through
the thickets, and the look of set determination
which gradually fixed itself about the
corners of his mouth. He marched straight
on, not noticing whither he was going, for a
considerable time ; but at length he came to
a standstill, leant back against the trunk of a
tree, folded his arms and gave a great sigh.

'Well,' he exclaimed aloud, 'I am glad
the die is cast, anyhow ! It is something to
have finished with doubt. The thing must
be done, and I must do it — no escape now I '

All of a sudden a violent fit of trembling
seized upon him and he sank down upon the
ground, dropping his head upon his hands.
The attack, whatever it was, only lasted a

few minutes. He raised his head by-and-by,
and looked about him, frowning, like a man
who has just awoke from sleep. ' What is
the meaning of this ? Am I a coward, in
addition to my other virtues ? ' he muttered,
with a sneer. ' No, I don't think I am that,
I never was considered so. After all, I
always knew it would come to this. If only
I am not too late to save her ! But I won't
thmk of that — I won't think of anything !
The time for thinking has gone by.'

Nevertheless he remained Avhere he was,
lost in thought, for another half-hour ; and
when at last he rose and walked away, his
face had the haggard, drawn look of one
who is still passing through a severe mental
conflict.

CHAPTER XLII.

JACOB Under A NEW ASPECT.

I HEAR,' said Can, Avliile she and Hope were
sitting together, late in the afternoon, with the
tea-table between them, ' that Stiles is somewhere
about the premises. Wouldn't it be as
well to ask him to dine with us ? '

Hope raised her eyebrows. ' I should be
delighted to have him at dinner,' she answered ;
^ but I thought you objected so strongly to
his being received in this way.'

I certainly did, once upon a time ; but a
good many changes have taken place since
then. To begin with, I am no longer mistress
of the establishment, and I can't be held responsible
for what goes on in it. Secondly,
Stiles has made a position for himself which
entitles him to be received, and to be called

Mr. Stiles," if you and he wish it. Thirdly,
you like talking to him. Fourthly and
finally, a triangular conversation is the greatest
bore in the world.'

Probably the last reason assigned by Miss
Herbert was, in her eyes, the most cogent ;
but she was also willing to show Hope a
pleasure, feeling that she had obligations in
that quarter. ' I don't like Stiles,' she went
on, meditatively ; ' I have always thought, and
I think still, that there is something about his
face which suggests the treadmill, and I have
every reason to believe that he hates me like
poison. Nevertheless, I suppose he ought
hardly to be treated as a dependent any longer.
We might have him down to-night, and see
how he behaves himself. If the experiment
doesn't succeed, we needn't repeat it.'

I will ask him, then,' said Hope, smiling ;
and I think I can answer for his behaving
properly, if he comes. But I am pretty sure
that he won't come.'

'I am quite ready to stake half-a-crown
against a sixpence that he does,' rejoined

Carry, calmly. And she would have been a
sixpence the richer, if her bet had been accepted
; for, rather to Hope's surprise, the
footman who was sent up to Jacob's studio
With a note, returned promptly to say that
Mr. Stiles ' desired his compliments and would
have much pleasure.'

Everybody noticed that there was something
odd about Jacob Stiles when he made
his appearance in the drawing-room that
evening, just after the dinner-bell rang. He
was not at all like himself, and certainly he
was most unlike the wan, despairing-looking
man who had issued from the woods a few
hours before. His eyes were bright ; his
cheeks, for once, had a tinge of colour in
them ; he entered the room with a smile upon
his face, and carried his chin quite a couple
of inches higher than usual. Without waiting
to be addressed, he began talking to Hope in
an easy, conventional fashion, just as if he
had been an ordinary guest, and as if Diis
presence had not signified the breaking down
of a long-established barrier. 'We have

made a mistake,' whispered Carry to Bertie.
He thinks he has got the recognition that he
has been trying for all his life, and he will proceed
to give himself insufferable airs upon the
strength of it.'

But lie did nothing of the kind. To whatever
cause the change in his demeanour may
have been due, it was not a change to which
any exception could be taken. In the last
chapter, it was remarked that he was not a
gentleman ; but that, as to externals, he could
assume all the semblance of a gentleman, and
even of a very agreeable one, was made apparent
before he had been seated five minutes
at the dinner-table. Without putting himself
forward in any way, he contrived not only to
talk rather more than his neighbours, but to
show them that he was both cleverer, and
better informed than they. Upon every subject
that chanced to come up he had something
bright and original to say, and said it
quite spontaneously. He was perfectly at his
ease, and, one would have thought, perfectly
natural ; only that it was difficult for those

who knew liiiii to believe that in all their
previous intercourse with him he had been
acting a part. If this was the real Jacob,
for what imaginable reason had he concealed
his identity so long and under so repellent a
disguise ? Hope, though pleased to see her
protege distinguishing himself, could not make
him out at all ; and Carry, after one or two
attempts to snub him, which were foiled by
his courtesy and determination not to see
what she meant, fairly hauled down her
colours, and admitted to herself that she had
formed a mistaken estimate of his character
and capacities. As for Bertie Cunningham,
to whom Jacob did not address much of his
conversation, he took note of the brightness
of his opposite neighbour's eyes, and came to
the uncharitable conclusion that Stiles had
l^een having a pretty stiff brandy-and-soda
upstairs.

However that might be, Jacob did not
seem disposed to indulge in deep potations
after the ladies had left the dining-room. He
fidgeted about, and replied irrelevantly to the

Vol. ni. K

languid remarks which Bertie made between
the whiffs of his cigarette, until the latter,
perceiving his impatience, said : ' Well, if you
won't take any more wine, I suppose we mayas
well make a move. You are coming to the
drawing-room, aren't you ? '

Jacob nodded. ' I was invited to spend
the evening,' he answered, with a slight smile.

A few minutes later he had seated himself
beside Carry, and had engaged her in a discussion
upon the best way of taming vicious
young horses, he himself being for gentleness
and patience, while she was in favour of more
vigorous methods of repression. He professed
to be convinced by some of her arguments,
and mixed a good deal of adroit
flattery with his own observations ; so that the
dialogue was maintained with great spirit
for a good quarter of an hour. This was all
very well ; but Miss Herbert ended by remembering
that it was not in order to entertain
her that Jacob had been dragged from his
solitude, and as he remained impervious to a
few civil hints, she rose unceremoniously and.

crossing the room to the fireplace, m front of
Which Bertie was standing, said : ' Come and
have a game of billiards. Then you will be
able to smoke.'

All right,' answered Bertie, who, for his
part, had found some difficulty in keeping up
a flow of small-talk with Hope. And so the
two left the room together.

Hope, who was sitting by the fire, did not
move ; and as soon as the door had closed,
Jacob dropped into an arm-chair opposite
hers. 'I thought, if I could show myself
sufficiently attentive to Miss Herbert, I should
drive her away,' he remarked, with a low
laugh. ' Now we can talk.'

Hope looked a little surprised ; she was
not accustomed to hearing Jacob adopt that
kind of tone. ' What is the matter with
you to-night ? ' she asked, her curiosity getting
the better of her manners. 'Do you
know that you are hardly recognisable ? '

Jacob laughed again. 'I am in high
spirits, Mrs. Herbert,' he answered, ' that is all.
You never saw me in high spirits before, and

no wonder you don't recognise me, I hope I
haven't been obtrusive or impertinent. The
fact is that I have been trying all the evening
to forget who and what I am. Have I succeeded
too well ? '

'You have succeeded in being very
pleasant and amusing.' replied Hope, ' and I
am glad you are in high spirits. But what
has happened to make you so ? '

I wonder,' said Jacob, ' whether you have
ever experienced the delight of coming to the
end of a thine. When I have finished a
picture I am always glad. It may have been
my chief occupation and my only pleasure for
months ; I may have enjoyed working at it,
and learnt to look upon it almost as a living
thing, and a faithful friend ; yet, when the
last touch has been put to it, I throw dowoi
my brushes, and rejoice. I have done with it ;
it is off my mind, and I am free again. Not
really free, of course ; because as soon as I
have finished one picture, I begin another, and
have to decide upon the subject too, wdiicli is
always a ]painful process. Still I rejoice. I

suppose we are all under the impression that
we have a certain amount of work to accomplish
in the world, and that the more we get
done, the less there remains to do. I could
understand that, at the end of all, an old man
might He down to die with a feeling of intense
relief and gratitude. Though, to be sure, I
don't remember ever hearing of such a case.*

'Life is sweet,' said Hope, not quite following
him.

To some people, no doubt ; but we all
cling to it, whether it is sweet or not. My
life, hitherto, has been almost entirely bitter ;
and no one can be surprised that I should
be in high spirits now that I have reached
the last page of the last chapter of it.'

Of your Hfe ? '

Well, of my past and present life.'

What are you going to do ? ' asked Hope,
wonderingly.

Oh, nothing very startling ; only I am
going to leave Farndon. Don't think me
ungrateful, Mrs. Herbert, and don't imagine
that I shall ever to my dying day forget all

your kindness to me. But I can make my
own living now, and I ought not to remain in
this house either as a guest or as a pensioner.
I have been thinking for a long time of breaking
off with the old life and beginning a new
one, and I want to travel about for a, little
before settling down in a home of my own. I
spoke to you about it in London, you know.'

You said in London that you were in no
hurry,' observed Hope, who was not quite
pleased at Jacob's eagerness to depart. Up to
that moment he had always been her devoted
slave, treating every wish of hers as law ; but
now, without any visible reason, lo and behold
her slave was ostentatiously declaring his independence
! Such declarations are never agreeable
to any woman, and the present one was
not agreeable to Hope. ' Of course,' she added,
if you are so very anxious to start, I wouldn't
for the world detain you ; but I am sorry you
should have changed your mind already.'

I haven't changed my mind, Mrs. Herbert;
I have only made it up. What I told you,
if you remember, was that I was uncertain

whether I would go abroad at alL Now
I have decided to go ; and when one has
decided to do anything, the sooner one does it
the better.'

Perhaps so,' answered Hope, little coldly.
And when do you start ? '

I must be off to-morrow morning. I telegraphed
this afternoon, to ask if there was a
vacant berth on board the steamer, and it
seems that there is. If I don't take it, I may
have to wait some time.'

What steamer are you speaking of ? '

'Oh, I forgot to say that I am going to
America. I have always had a great wish to
see the Western States and the Eocky Mountains,
and perhaps California. It was a choice
between that and the picture-galleries of
Europe, and, all things considered, I thought
I would give the precedence to Nature.'

The Eocky Mountains ! ' exclaimed Hope.
Then perhaps you will meet Dick.'

Jacob smiled. ' That is possible, of course,'
lie answered ; ' whether it is likely is another
question. The Eocky Mountains, as you know,

extend over the entire length of the North
American continent. Besides, Mr. Herbert
will be starting to return home by the time
that I get out there, will he not ? '

Yes, perhaps ; but I hardly think he will
be able to leave the moment that he gets my
letter ; nor can I tell you exactly where he is.
Latterly, I have been writing to him at the
Post Office, Virginia City, Montana.'

Jacob nodded silently. Presently he resumed
: ' I may find myself in Mr. Herbert's
neighbourhood or I may not. But, after what
I told you the other day, you will understand
that it cannot be precisely an object with me
to seek him out.'

You told me the other day that you had
no affection for him,' answered Hope ; ' but I
don't think that was quite the truth. I think
what you meant was that you were hurt and
angry with him ; and I don't say that you
have no reason to be. But unless you had
some affection for him you would not be angry,
would you ? '

Jacob's brow clouded over. ' You are

Avron^r,' lie returned almost roiiglily ; ' I have
no such feeling as you imagine — nothing of the
kind. Just consider what he has done to earn
my affection. It is so easy for a rich man to
lay a pauper under an eternal obligation ! A
careless sort of good-nature, which cost him
nothing, made him adopt me when I was an
orphan ; he brought me up — not very judiciously,
perhaps — like a gentleman, and I used
to be found an amusing little fellow by him
and his friends. Then I deceived and disappointed
him, and at once he turned his back
u2:)on me. He had taken me out of my own
class ; he didn't think me worthy to be
received into his. All my life I have been
neither fish, flesh, nor good red-herring ; and
my life, as I was saying just now, has been
full of bitterness. No ! I have no affection
for Mr. Herbert ; and I will go further than
that and add that I don't think he has deserved
any affection from me. But we have
already said all that there is to be said upon
this subject. Can we not find something
pleasant to talk about on my last evening ? '

Hope did not respond immediately. In
lier heart of hearts she thought Jacob a little
ungrateful — certainly to Dick, perhaps also to
herself. But her displeasure did not hold out
long against his resolution to enjoy himself for
once, and for once to meet those about him
upon a footing of equality. With a good deal
of tact, he drew her thoughts away from the
present and led her to speak of the past — of her
life at Helston Abbey with her father, of her
artistic aspirations, and of other topics with
which neither Dick Herbert nor Bertie Cunningham
were in any way connected. At first
the burden of keeping up the conversation
rested upon his shoulders ; but insensibly he
shifted it to those of his companion and, leaning
back in his chair, with one hand shading his
eyes, watched her intently and silently, while
she chatted on about this and that. When
the engaged couple returned from the billiards
Hope was astonished — and said so — to
see that it was already past eleven o'clock.

'I am glad,' observed Jacob, with a smile,
that I have not been a bore.' And then,

turning to Carry : ' I shall not be in danger of
boring anybody at Farndon again for sometime
to come. I have just been telling Mrs.
Herbert that I start for America tomorrow.'

Eeally ? ' said Carry, indifferently. Then,
with a short accession of interest : ' To what
part of America do you propose to go ? '

To the extreme Mayest — the Yellowstone
Park and that region, perhaps.'

Carry looked rather hard at him. This
sudden resolution to proceed to the remote
quarter of the globe in which her brother was
sojourning struck her as an odd coincidence —
if it was a coincidence. ' Oh, to that region.
And why to that region in particular ? ' she
asked : which, as it happened, was just what
Jacob wanted her to ask.

• An artist's whim,' he answered, shrugging
his shoulders. ' I am told that the scenery of
the Piocky Mountains is disappointing, from
an artistic point of view, owing to the gigantic
scale of everything Avliich shuts out all
effects of contrast, and the clearness of the
atmosphere which makes distant outlines too

distinct ; and indeed one doesn't hear of any
Rocky Mountain pictures, except Bierstadt's.
However, I can but try.'

I thought landscape was not your line,'
said Carry, still vaguely suspicious.

It has not been hitherto ; but I am going
to make a change — in that and in other things.
I have worked hard in one groove for a good
many years, and I think I am fairly entitled to
a change. I ought to be packing up my possessions
now Good-night, Miss Herbert, and
good-bye, if I don't see you again.'

He shook hands with her and with Cunningham,
but when he approached Hope, with
a similar intention, she said : ' No ; I must see
you before you start in the morning. Perhaps
I may intrust you with some message for Dick,
in case you meet him.'

I shall be delighted to execute any commission,
Mrs. Herbert,' answered Jacob ; ' but
you had better not commit anything of importance
to me ; because, as I told you just now,
the chances are very much against my meeting
him.' And thereupon he withdrew.

CHAPTER XLIII.

IX Virginia CITY.

It is quite possible that Virginia City, which
made an ambitious start in the world as
capital of the territory of Montana, but has
slice lost that proud distinction, might eventually
have grown into a city, if events had
proved favourable to its development ; that
is to say, if the mineral district in the midst of
which it is situated had turned out as rich
as it once promised to be. But mines (as
many people on both sides of the Atlantic
know to their sorrow) have a deplorable
habit of leaving promises unfulfilled ; and so,
Avhen the weary traveller makes his way into
Virginia City, he; is apt to think that the
persons who bestowed so high-sounding a title
upon a mere handful of small palpitations

were taking time by the forelock in a somewhat
unjustifiable manner. Such, at any rate, was
the opinion of two bearded, weatherbeaten,
and dilapidated sportsmen who arrived there
one afternoon in the month of April. They
were standing disconsolately at the window
of the inn where they had taken up their
quarters, and were watching the first flakes of
the coming; snowstorm, which a furious wind
was driving before it.

Did you ever in all your born days see
such a place!' muttered one of them.

Most certainly I never did,' replied his
companion, with conviction ; ' and I humbly
hope that I may never see such another.
Indeed, if you come to that, I am quite sure
that I never shall, because I shall not be
found in this country again. I don't want to
grumble ; I believe I may claim to have
abstained from grumbling pretty creditably
for the last two months ; but I will go sofar
as to state my deliberate opinion that
this is an overrated country. The climate is
beastly '

'No, not the climate,' interrupted the first
speaker ; ' I don't complain of that.'

I do, then ; I complain of it bitterly ;
and I stick to what I have said. A climate in
which you are liable to be buried in snow
in the month of April is a beastly climate.
But of course one could put up with that, if
there were compensations. What I want
to know is, where are the compensations?
Where are the bighorn? Where are the
moose, and the elk, and the antelope ? Answer
me that, Herbert, if you can.'

My dear fellow, if I could,' answered
Dick, with a placidity which was only superficial,
' I should not be contemplating this
caricature of a city at the present moment.
But I know where the whisky is — and I'm
going to drink it. It seems the only thing
to be done.'

Francis sighed heavily. ' What I should
consider a piece of real good luck,' he remarked,
' would be if either you or I were to
receive a letter, necessitating: our immediate
return to England. But of course nothing of

the kind will occur. It is only when one is
havens a good time that one is certain to be
summoned away at a moment's notice, and
we have emphatically not been having a good
time of it lately. Moreover, I don't believe
there's a good time coming, do you ? '

Dick shook his head. ' Not in these parts,
I'm afraid ; but wee may do better by moving
south a bit. What a time that fellow is
bringing the letters ! '

The true sportsman, it is said, always
accepts bad luck philosophically ; but presumably
there are limits to the endurance even
of the true sportsman. Our two friends, who
could stand discomfort and disappointment
better than most men, lead reached the end
of their stock of patience a few days before,
and had determined to make for the comparative
civilisation of Virginia City. They
had been unfortunate all the winter through,
killing very little game and encountering unusually
severe weather. What had secretly
vexed them both was their knowledge that
they might have met with much greater

success if they had been willing to cut themselves
off from communication with the outer
world for a few months ; but Dick had not
been able to make up his mind to this sacrifice,
and although his companion had hitherto
been too generous to remind him of the fact,
he was painfully aware that their failure was
his fault.

After all,' he said, apologetically, ' we
have sent home a fairish number of heads and
skins.'

Qidte so ; but when did we send the
last ? Don't you think it is getting very
nearly time to take home our own heads and
skins? I only throw it out as a suggestion,
you know ; I said I would see you through,
and I will. But haven't we — ahem ! — attained
our object by this time? '

Dick stretched out his long legs and contemplated
the heavy boots which adorned
them. ' I don't know,' he said, after a pause.

The two men had been together morning,
noon, and night, for three-quarters of a year;
but although they were such old friends —

Vol. III. S

perhaps because they were such old friends —
not a word had passed between them as to
the true cause of their absence from England.
Francis relapsed into silence ; and presently
an agreeable diversion was created by the
entrance of Dick's servant, with his arms full
of newspapers and letters, which he cast in a
heap upon the table.

Dick jumped up with some alacrity and
drew towards him his share of the spoil,
siuRlini]^ out one letter from the rest, which
he looked at for a moment and then laid aside
upon the mantelshelf, to be perused when the
others should have been run through. Francis,
watching him out of the corner of his eye,
noticed this performance and smiled slightly
to himself. He was quite accustomed to it,
having seen it take place many times before —
as often, indeed, as the post came in. His
own correspondence, which did not happen
to be interesting, was soon disposed of, and
he fell back upon the newspapers, while Dick
read and re-read the letter which he had
reserved for the last, not raising his eyes from

it until dinner was brought in. During that
repast lie was more than usually taciturn,
and it was only after the bear and antelope
meat had been done full justice to and pipes
had been lighted that he said : ' Well, Francis,
you've got your wish. It's a case of making
tracks for home before long, I believe.'

'Heaven be praised!' exclaimed Francis,
piously. ' May I be permitted to inquire
what's up ? '

Well, my sister Carry is going to be
married ; and it seems to be considered that I
ought to be present at the ceremony.'

I am delighted to hear it. I congratulate
Miss Herbert; I congratulate myself; I congratulate
everybody all round. Pass me the
whisky and we'll drink everybody's health, except
the health of the people who told us that
bighorn abounded in the neighbourhood of
Fort Ellis. By-the-way who is the happy man ? '

Cunningham,' answered Dick, briefly.

Oh-heh ! ' ejaculated Francis, setting down
his glass, while he involuntarily pursed up his
lips, as if about to whistles

2

You seem surprised,' observed Dick.

'Eh? Surprised? Oh, dear, no! not in
the least,' returned Francis, hastily. ' I always
expected it to be a match. Didn't you ?

Yes ; I certainly did,' said Dick. ' I am
not surprised ; but I think you are, and I
think I know why you are. Look here,
Francis, I've a great mind to make a clean
breast of it, and — er — well, ask you for your
advice. Of course I don't mean to say that I
shall take your advice. I've been upon the
point of speaking to you half a hundred times
before ; but I'm such a confoundedly reticent
beggar, and I do so hate talking about my
private affairs ! As a general thing, every
man is the best judge of his own business ;
only I suppose everybody feels the need of
consulting a friend now and then.'

Francis nodded, knowing his man and
being aware that protestations of friendship
on his part would be both superfluous and
unwelcome.

But first of all,' Dick went on, ' should
you say that I was bound to be in England

for Carry's Aveddiiig ? I mean, if my presence
were undesirable on other grounds, would
that be a good enough reason for my returning
? '

I should say that you were most undoubtedly
bound to be there. Also that your
presence would be desirable upon other
grounds,' replied Francis, succinctly.

H'm ! Well, I am inclined to agree with
you — at least, as to my being at the wedding.
I could always go away again afterwards
if '

If you wanted to go ? '

Yes ; or if others wanted me to go. You
disapproved of my marriage from the first,
didn't you, Francis ? '

Disapproved isn't exactly the word to
use : I had no business to disapprove. I was
afraid it was rather a — what shall I say ? —
rather a hazardous experiment.'

I know. You where perfectly right, it
was a hazardous experiment, and I need
hardly tell you that it has turned out a failure.
You must have seen that for yourself? '

Francis admitted that he had conjectured
as much.

I suppose it was bound to be a failure,'
Dick went on ; ' but she has more riofht to complain
than I have, because I am sorry to say
that I wasn't quite candid with her at starting.
Generally, as you may have noticed, I am
rather particularly candid. All my life I have
gone in for telling the literal truth, and maybe
I Have prided myself a little upon sticking
to that plan. Anyhow I never tried another
until I proposed to Hope Lefroy. I don't
think you ever saw her until after our engagement
; but most likely you know what
her circumstances were when her father died.'

Francis signified assent. ' It was a very
hard case,' he remarked.

Terrible ; I don't know that I ever heard
of a worse. Brought up with every imaginable
luxury, you know, and taught to believe
that she was a great heiress, and then suddenly
thrown upon the Avorld, with no more money
of her own than would pay for her clothes.
I must say for Lefroy that he did his best to

be kind to her ; lie couldn't well do more than
oiler her a home. But she was a great deal
too proud to hive upon charity, and nothing
would satisfy her but that she should become a
professional artist and support herself. Now,
it was as certain as anything could be that
she would fail at that, and it seemed to me
tolerably certain, too, that in the course of a
year or so she would be driven into marrying
one of the rich men whom Lad' Jane would
take care to place at her disposal — and who
might very likely be a ruffian.'

And so, to save her from a worse fate,
you proposed to her yourself.'

And so I proposed to her — yes. We were
very good friends, and I put it to her whether
we might not live together permanently as
good friends. I said we wouldn't talk about
love or anything of that sort, but that in my
opinion two people could be very happy as
husband and wife without it. Each of us
would allow the other plenty of liberty ; we
shouldn't be very much together ; and as we
should have a clear mutual understanding? at

the outset, there ought not to be much clanger
of our quarrelling.'

Whatever objections that declaration may
have been open to, it doesn't seem to me that
lack of candour was one of them,' remarked
Francis.

That is j must where you make a mistake. If
I had been candid, I should have told her that
I adored her. I fell in love with her the very
first time that we met ; I tried to get over it
but I couldn't ; and, what is more, I never
shall get over it as long as I live. Xow you
may laugh, if you like.'

I don't see anything to laugh at,' said
Francis. ' The only thing that I can't understand
is wliy in the Avorld you didn't tell her
that you adored her.'

I should have thought a clever fellow
like you might have guessed. It wasn't to be
supposed that she could be in love with mea
man of nearly twice her age, with a figure-lead
on his shoulders which never was much
to look at and which is considerably the
worse for wear now.'

What rubbish — as though that had 
to do with it ! '

Xo, it isn't rubbish ; and when you fall in
love with a girl of nineteen you will know
that it isn't. My dear Francis, if such a thing
were to happen to you tomorrow, I can assure
you that — little as you may suppose it — you
would immediately begin to study jour face
in the glass, and you would be simply horrified
at your own reflection. You don't mind
my saying so, do you ? '

Xot being in love at present, I don't.
Well, what reply did you get to those well-chosen
words of yours ? '

Dick sighed. ' There was a good deal of
doubt, and a good deal of delay,' he answered,
but in the end she accepted me. At first she
Alas inclined to suspect that I had proposed
to lier out of pity, and as I couldn't tell her
the real state of the case (because if I had
lie Avould undoubtedly have rejected me),
I had trouble enough to invent plausible
motives. There's no end to the difficulties
that a man finds himself in, when once he

has departed from the truth ! However we
were married, and for the first month or
more everything seemed to be going as
smoothly as possible. The notion that I had
taken into my head — I daresay it was an absurd
one — was that she might come to love
me in time. That is if I didn't bore her, and
if I tried my best to make her happy, you
understand. One has heard of such things
happening in the case of women. For a man
to marry without being in love, and to fall in
love with his wife afterwards would be impossible,
as we know ; the very idea is pre -
prosperous. But there is a general impression
that women are differently constituted. Well,
to cut a long story short, my plan didn't work.
Having that secret from her put me rather at
a disadvantage, I fancy. I don't think I can
have bored her personally, for I kept myself
in the background as much as possible, and
left her alone whenever I could ; but I am
afraid she found life at Farndon rather a bore.'
In spite of your delicacy ? ' said Francis,
who could not help laughing a little at this.

I hcfy your pardon, Herbert , but yours was
the funniest way of making love that I oyer
heard of.'

Most likely it wasn't a very good way,'
agreed Dick, humbly ; ' but it doesn't much
signify whether it was good or bad, because
in due course of time she — Upon my word
I don't quite like saying this even to you,
Francis.'

You need not say it, unless you like, old
man,' answered Francis, quietly ; ' I know
what you mean. In due course of time she
met somebody who — well, who didn't recommend
himself to her notice by remaining in
the background.'

Yes — Cunningham. After all, it's best to
call things and people by their names.'

I won't deny,' said Francis, ' that I
thought him dangerous at one time ; everybody
who saw them together thought so.
But nothing is more common than for everybody
to be mistaken, and before we left England
I had begun to suspect there was a mistake
in that instance. At all events, cunningham's

engagement to your sister seems to
prove that there was.'

No, not exactly ; Cunningham is a very
good fellow in his way ; but fidelity isn't his
strong point, and he has been practically engaged
to Carry in an ofF-anton sort of fashion
for a long time. That neither prevented him
from falling in love with my wife, nor from
declaring; Ins love to her.'

You can't be sure that he declared it.'

Yes, I am ; because she told me that he
laid.'

The deuce she did ! ' ejaculated Francis.
And after that, you call Cunningham a good
fellow ! '

I said " in his way " ; it's a common
enough way in these days, by all accounts.
He is the kind of man who couldn't be in love
with my wife, or anybody's wife, without
letting her know of it.'

And she actually told you that he had
done so ! '

Does that astonish you ? It didn't astonish
me. Hope is as honourable as you or

I ; and tliougli I don't knoAv that she Alas
absolutely bound to tell me what had happened,
I think she would have been sailing
rather near the wind if she had concealed it.
At any rate, she did tell me ; and I could see,
by the state of agitation that she was in, that
she cared for the man.'

Having convinced yourself of which, you
thought it sensible and appropriate to betake
yourself to the other side of the Atlantic ! '
exclaimed Francis, lifting up his hands.

Dick looked a little displeased. ' I thought
it sensible that, after such a discovery, we
should remain apart for a time,' he answered,
gravely, ' and I still think so. You don't, I
hope, mean to imply that I risked anything
by turning my back upon England. What
had happened was a misfortune for my wife
and for me ; but it was no more her fault than
mine, and I can answer for it that if she has
spoken to Cunningham since that day, it has
not been willingly.'

Francis held his peace, being in fact unable
to make the response which his friend evidently

expected of him ; but when Dick added :
^ Well, now that you know all about it, tell me
honestly what you think I had better do ? ' he
answered :

That is not a question which need puzzle
anybody. Hitherto you seem to have consistently
done what you ought not to have
done, and left undone what you ought to
have done. Your only course now is to go
home as quickly as you can, and begin allover
again.'

Dick shook his head. ' It is too soon for
that, I am afraid.'

A great deal more likely to be too late ! '
thought the other ; but he said aloud : ' I
think you were in rather a hurry to jump to
conclusions about Mrs. Herbert and Cunningham.
What her feelings towards you maybe
I don't pretend to know ; by your own
account, you made it impossible for her to
show them. But I can say, from my own
observation, that she was very much distressed
at your leaving her.'

That is true,' observed Dick, stroking his

chin meditatively ; ' but I shouldn't be disposed
to build too mueli upon that. It was
only natural that just at first she should dislike
the idea of being left alone. There was
something in the letter tluit I had from her
just now which I was rather glad to see,' he
added presently ; ' though probably it means
nothing. You see, she says that Carry wants
me to go home for the wedding, and then she
lias written " and so do I," and has scratched
the words out afterwards.'

He handed the open sheet to Francis, who
glanced at it with an amused smile, and remarked
: ' The words aren't so very much
scratched out, are they ? '

Do you think she meant me to read
them then ? ' asked Dick, eagerly.

I think she must have been aware that
you couldn't possibly help reading them.
Give me a telegraph-form, and I'll secure our
passage for Europe ; this shoot is at an end.'

Dick knocked the ashes out of his pipe,
rose from his chair, and strode up and down
the room three or four times. ' No,' he said

decisively at last ; ' I had better not make
my appearance until just before the wedding.
I doubt whether there is any chance for me ;
but if there is, it will be improved by our
having the house to ourselves. Now that
Carry is going to leave us, I don't mind telling
you that she hasn't been altogether an
addition to our comfort. She means well ;
but — not to mince matters — she is most confoundedly
in the way. Added to which, she
naturally looks upon me as being rather
beyond the age for making love, and — and —
in short, I daresay you can understand.'

Do you mean that you are shy of your
own sister ? ' asked Francis, laughing.

That is precisely what I do mean. Soif
you think you can stand a few more wrecks
of camping out, we'll be off to Denver tomorrow,
and then make for Estes Park. If
we don't get as many black-tail deer as we
can shoot there, I'll give you leave to say
anything you like about the nakedness of the
land.'

Francis, after some demur, acquiesced in

this arrangement, and the same evening Dick
despatched a lengthy telegram to Hope, informing
her of his proposed change of quarters,
and promising to be in England early in
the month of June.

As events proved, it was an unfortunate
decision ; but the events in question not
being of those which cast their shadows
before them, nobody was to blame for it.

Vol. m.

CHAPTEE Xlii.

A Long Journey.

Do you know,' asked Jacob Stiles, looking
dreamily about him, ' when I last breakfasted
in this room ? '

No,' answered Hope, who was the only
other occupant of the dining-room at Pardon
; ' was it a long time ago ? '

It was on the morning of — the catastrophe
of which I told you ; from that day I
began to live apart. And now here I am
once more — only for once, though — and you
have got up early to pour out my coffee forme.
You have been very kind to me, Mrs.
Herbert — sometimes I wonder wh}-. But I
suppose you are kind to everybody.'

Not to people wdioni I dislike,' answered
Hope, smiling. ' If you think it a wonderful

piece of kindness on my part to have come
downstairs half an hour before my usual time,
you might slow your appreciation of it by
doing a little justice to your breakfast. You
have eaten nothing.'

I am not hungry,' answered Jacob. And
then, with a recurrence of the hesitating
manner which he had contrived so completely
to throw oir on the preceding evening : ' Mrs.
Herbert, would it be a great liberty if I asked
you to give me one of your photographs ? I
wanted to ask you last night, but I hadn't the
courage. Only afterwards I said to myself
that perhaps you would not mind, because
there are some requests which are impertinent
coming from equals, but not from inferiors.'

If this were not your last morning,'
answered Hope, ' I should be very much inclined
to refuse you for putting your request
in such a disagreeable way. As it is, I will
only make one small request on my own
score, which is that when you come back
you will give iij) calling me your superior.
As soon as I can paint pictures Hke yours we

T 2

will begin to talk about being equals ; but
not before. Now I will go and get you the
photograph.'

She brought it presently and, with a few
murmured words of thanks, he slipped it into
his breast-pocket. Immediately afterwards
the butler came in to announce that the
dog-cart was waiting. It was to Hope that
he imparted this information ; it would have
been beneath his dignity to address himself to
Jacob Stiles.

'I must go,' said Jacob, glancing at his
watch. ' You said last night that you might
perhaps have some commission for me to
execute.'

Yes,' answered Hope ; ' but, on second
thoughts, I will not trouble you. I have
nothing particular to say, and if, by any
chance, you should come across Dick, you
will be able to tell him all about me — all that
he cares to hear. I hope you will have a
very pleasant trip and that the change will do
you a great deal of good.'

'Perhaps it will,' answered Jacob. 'Now

jTooel-byc, Mrs. Herbert. There is a great
deal that I should like to say to you ; but I
should not say it well, and I have tried already
to tell you how grateful I am to you, and —
and — how much I wish for your happiness.
May I say that I think the future will bring
you more happiness than the past has done ? '

Hope took the hand that he extended to
]her and returned its slight pressure. She
thought that she understood him (though she
did not), and accepted his words as a good
omen. When one is on the look-out for
omens anything will serve. Jacob held her
hand for an instant, and, without another
word, left the room.

He hurried across the hall, clambered into
the dog-cart, gathering up the reins, and drove
at a brisk pace down the avenue. ' Over —
and well over ! ' was what he was thinking to
himself No one would have supposed, to look
at him, that the thought of the brief leave-taking
which he had just gone through had
kept him awake all night, and that more than
once during the hours of darkness he had

doubted wJietlier lie would have the fortitude
to face it. Wlien he reached the turn in the
drive he pulled up abruptly and looked back
at the house.

Forgotten anything ? ' asked the groom
who was sitting beside him.

No ; I have forgotten nothing yet,' he
answered, and, with a shake of the reins,
drove on.

The groom laughed at this absurd reply.
One would think you was going to lose your
things further on,' said he. ' Alius thought
you was a pretty good 'and at lookin' after
herself too.'

Like his fellow-servants, lie seldom let
slip an opportunity of being impertinent to
Jacob, whose habit it was to leave impertinences
unnoticed.

James,' said the latter presently, ' it is as
likely as not that you will never see me at
Pardon assail.'

What, have you made yer fortune' then ? '
asked the man, jocosely-yes,

I have made my fortune ; and Earn-don

lias not been sucJi a pleasant home to me
that I should wish to return. You have all
hated and despised me, haven't you ? '

Well, I dunno about that.'

Oh, yes, you do know. After all, it was
natural enough, I suppose. You are like a
flock of sheep, all of you. You take your cue
from the stud-groom ; the footmen take their
cue from the butler ; the butler and the stud-groom
take theirs from their master. Still,
I wish, after I am gone, you would just ask
yourself what I have done to you to be hated
and despised.'

I don't take my cue from nobody,' returned
James, remembering that he was a
free-born Briton ; ' nor yet I don't hate no
man, without he has give me good cause.
But suppose you was to try working' of it
round t'other way, and art herself what you've
done to make a man like yer ? '

That is a fair enough retort. Well, it is
all over now, and it doesn't much signify. I
suppose, James, you will admit that I can ride.'

'Finest 'horseman I ever see in my life,'

answered James, with the air of one determined
to give the devil his due.

Remember me by that, then ; and remember
that yon never knew me lose my
temper with a horse. I have seen you
bullying your horses more than once, James ;
and if it had been of the slightest use to
speak to you about it, I should have spoken
long ago. Depend upon it, no good was ever
done in this world bj' bullying. I know
there are horses and boys who can stand a lot
of flogging and be none the worse for it,
though, of course, there are many who can't ;
but no horse should be thrashed without
some reason that he can understand. He requires
fair treatment, just as a man does, and
unless he gets it he will turn nasty, just as a
man will. When you have spoilt a horse's
temper, you call him an incurably vicious
brute ; and when the same thing has been
done to a man, he is called — what do you call
me in the stables, James ? '

Never heard you called out of yer proper
name, as I can remember,' answered the man

in a somewhat surly voice, for lie did not
relish being lectured by Jacob Stiles.

Have you not ? But I am tolerably certain
that no one about the place has a good
word for me.'

To this assertion, which had an interrogative
ring, the stolid James vouchsafed
neither assent nor contradiction, Jacob
sighed, and then laughed.

Here we are at the station,' he said presently.
' Good-bye, James ; put that in your
pocket, and bear in mind what I have said to
you. It is true, and you may find it useful
some day or other.'

The eyes of James became round with
amazement, and his tongue was paralysed ; for
it was nothing less than a five-pound note
that Jacob had thrust into his hand. A
donation so splendid, coming from such a
quarter, made it impossible for him to express
his feelings in words until he had handed the
luggage out to the porter, and had turned his
horse's head round. Then he slapped this leg
with his open hand, and ejaculated aloud:

I'm dashed if that feller ain't one o' the right
sort, after all ! '

But the irony of the above encomium was
lost to Jacob, who, by that time, had seated
himself in an empty hast-class carriage, and
had entered upon a long soliloquy which,
with occasional breaks, lasted him all the way
to Liverpool.

'Five pounds to a groom! There's a sort
of pleasure in being generous, even Avhen
generosity only takes the form of giving away
what can never be of the slightest use to oneself
any more. I wonder whether I should
have been a great philanthropist if I had
been a rich man — it isn't unlikely. I wonder
what sort of person my father was-He
hanged himself in a garret ; and in about a

fortnight's time from now Heavens ! how

slowly this train moves ; and they call it an
express. And then the voyage ! Ten mortal
days and nights ! — how shall I live through
such an eternity ?

I think I have played my part well ; they
will all recollect that I set out in the best of

spirits, and that I seemed to be looking forward
to enjoying myself. When the news
reaches her, she will not suspect that I have
committed a crime for lier sake. A chance encounter,
a quarrel, probably a blow given and
returned ; it will be a nine days' wonder, and
then it will be forgotten. The newspapers
will be able to explain it all. " The morbid
and vindictive character of the criminal was
well known to those who were brought into
contact with him. That he cherished a secret
grudge against his benefactor and victim
seems to have been almost a matter of notoriety
; and it is by no means improbable that
constant brooding over his imaginary Wrongs
may have unhinged his mind. Indeed, the
absence of sufficient motive seems to point to
the conclusion that the unfortunate gentleman
whose death avc have to record fell by
the hand of a madman." Am I mad ? It is
possible ; but I can detect no symptoms of
insanity in myself. I know very well what
my purpose is, and what the consequences
will be. I could abandon it now, if I chose ;

I am perfectly master of my own actions.
And yet, is it really / who am going to do
this horrible thin ?

What nonsense ! There is nothing horrible
in what I am going to do ; I am not sure
that there is anything wrong in it. What
are right and wrong? Conventional terms,
which mean very little more than expedient
and inexpedient. A bad man is a man who
makes himself obnoxious to his fellow-creatures.
When he becomes too obnoxious
to be tolerated any longer, the law stamps
him out in one way or another. In this
instance I, a private individual, am going to
take the functions of the law upon me, for
once. It is inexpedient that private individuals
should behave in that way ; but as
for the moral guilt of the thing

'For that matter, he deserves to die. If
he were allowed to go on living, he would
only live for himself, and make others unhappy
; as far as I know wdiat right is, I shall
do right in killing him. Besides, I shall pay
for his life with my own ; so that we shall be

quits. And, when all is said, what is the life
of one man? Thousands and thousands are
killed for the sake of adding a few square
miles of territory to this or that country, and
the men who order the slaughter, and the
men who are sent to carry it out, are
smothered in ribbons and rewards. The
whole question of morals is a question of inherited
ideas and traditions. The morality of
the Old Testament, for example, would soon
bring anybody who practised it in our days
to the gallows. Samuel hadn't the slightest
compunction about killing his enemies in
cold blood ; nor had Elijah ; and as for David,
he was a murderer of a very much baser
type than I shall be.

No ; it won't do. I can't deceive myself.
A crime it is ; and calling it by another
name won't alter its nature. But right or
wrong, crime or no crime, I will do it for
her sake. Only I wish I had not such an
interminable time to wait.'

It was with reflections such as these, repeated
again and again in different language,

that Jacob's weary brain was occupied
throughout his journey ; but Avhen he reached
Liverpool, and when, shortly afterwards, he
stood on the deck of the huge steamer that
was to take him to New York, his mood
suddenly changed. The prospect of the voyage
came to him as a kind of respite ; he
determined that for the next ten days he
would exist only in the present, putting away
from him all thoughts of past and future
alike ; and, not a little to his own surprise, he
found that he was able to do this without
difficulty.

Those whose duties require them to keep
up appearances and exhibit an unruffled
countenance to the world, whatever may be
their private griefs or anxieties (and there are
many such persons in all classes), are aware
how much simpler a matter than might be
supposed it is to lead a double life. Outward
show of emotion is banished because it must
be banished, and soon the faculty is acquired
of laying aside the emotion itself, with the
show of it, to be resumed at leisure. It is

true that social intercourse is essential to the
exercise of the above faculty ; and it may-have
been because he was sensible of this
that Jacob, in flagrant contradiction with his
nature and habits, laid himself out to be
agreeable to his fellow-passengers.

Before the ship had left the Mersey he
had entered into conversation with several of
these ; to most, if not to all, of them he was
already known as a talented artist, and his
advances were so cordially responded to, that
by the middle of the next day he found himself
quite a popular personage. The sensation
was a strange one to him, and he enjoyed
it. Throughout the voyage, which chanced to
be exceptionally calm, he maintained his novel
character as a pleasant, companionable fellow,
and contrived to merge his identity in his part
as thoroughly as any actor who ever trod the
boards. During the day he took part in all
those varied devices for killing time which
people are wont to employ on ship-board and
to call amusements, for want of a better name;
when he turned in at night he fell immediately

into a heavy, dreamless sleep, which lasted
until morning. Indeed, it may be said that he
himself was asleep the whole time, or rather,
that he was as nearly as can be realising the
wish which most of ns have felt — to be for a
short period somebody else, to experience
somebody else's sensations, and compare them
with our own.

The real Jacob woke up one morning off
Sandy Hook — woke with a shudder, but with
no faltering in his purpose, nor any misgiving
as to his power to carry it out. Among the
acquaintances that he had made on board was
that of an American who had recently visited
the Yellowstone region, and to whom he had
imparted his intention of proceeding thither, in
search of landscape studies. This gentleman,
while warning him that he was making the
trip far too early in the year, gave him information
as to the best and quickest means of
reaching his goal, and, on being given to
understand that the artist had only a very
limited space of time at this disposal, good-naturedly
accompanied him to the train, gave

him some hints for his future guidance, and
saw him fairly off.

'Xow, Mr. Stiles,' he said at parting, 'you
will have to immortalise our National Park.
I shall expect to hear of you again in connection
with this trip, sir.' To which Jacob
replied quietly : ' I think I may promise that
you will.'

But what a journey it was ! Three interminable
days and nights of it : days that
seemed like weeks ; nights of feverish, sleepless
impatience, during which the wretched
man feared more than once that his brain was
giving way. The revolver which he had
bought before leaving England hung at his
belt ; his fingers stole down to it again and
again. Suicide, now that the crisis was so
near at hand, seemed to be far easier than
murder, and a voice kept whispering to
him: 'Die and have done with it! What
difference will anyone's happiness or unhappiness
make to you when you are annihilated ? '
But he thrust the temptation away from him
with a horror infinitely greater than any that

Vol. ni. U

the tlioufi^ht of his crime had aroused in him.
Indeed, it was the persistency of it that made
him think he must be losing his senses. ' Whatever
I may be, let me not be a coward ! ' he
cried to himself in an inarticulate agony which
was almost a prayer.

The scenery through which he passed did
not interest him in the least. From-new
York to Chicago by the Erie railway, and
thence to St. Paul and Bohemian by the
Northern Pacific line, had been the route
marked out for him by his American friend.
He noted the various stopping-places and
checked them off mentally as so many links
removed from the chain, but scarcely troubled
himself to raise his heavy eyes and glance out
of the window at city or country. When a
man's feet are upon the steps of the scaffold,
it matters little enough to him what kind of
landscape may be surveyed from that eminence.
At Bohemian Jacob quitted the train
and reached Virginia City by stage, after a
long and fatiguing drive over a very indifferent
road, only to find that the party of

which he was in quest lead left some days
before. The news gave him a momentary
shock of intense disappointment, followed by
a sensation of relief almost as intense. If
Herbert's departure meant that he had started
for England immediately after receiving his
wife's letter, then Jacob's journey had been
undertaken in vain. It was not at all likely
that he would be able to overtake his victim
on that side of the Atlantic, and to follow him
to England and shoot him there would be impossible.
The set purpose and premeditation
of such an act would be too evident and
would expose Hope to the feeling of remorse
from which he was of all things most anxious
to shield her. So that for a minute or two it
almost seemed to him as if Providence or Late
had interposed to save Dick's life. But the
first answers that lie received to his questions
sufficed to dispel that illusion, as well as to
harden his heart against Herbert, who, it
appeared, had no intention of giving up his
sport to suit anybody's convenience. When
Jacob heard that the two Englishmen, with

their retinue, had moved to Estes Park in the
neighbourhood of Denver, he proposed to
start in pursuit forthwith, and was only induced
to take a night's rest when it was
pointed out to him that he could by no possibility
leave his present quarters until the
following day.

It is needless to accompany him through
the tedious and devious ways which brought
him at length to the capital of Colorado. He
had not doubted but that, on his arrival there,
he would either fall in with Dick's party or
learn whither it had proceeded ; but it so
chanced that the hotel which he selected was
not the one at which his countrymen had put
up, and the hotel clerk denied all knowledge
of ' the outfit ' about which he inquired.
Wandering down one of the broad streets inconsiderable
perplexity — for he neither knew
how to reach Estes Park nor felt sure that
the information given him at Virginia City
had been accurate — he heard his name called
out in an unmistakably English voice, and,
wheeling round, found himself face to face

with Filmer, an old servant of Mr. Herbert's,
and his attendant in many previous shooting
expeditions to distant lands. This man —
either owing to his firm conviction that whatever
his master did was right or because
his own position was sufficiently secure to
place him above all jealousy of upstarts — had
always shown a more friendly disposition
towards Jacob than the other servants at
Farndon.

'What, Mr. Stiles!' exclaimed he. 'Who
would have thought of meeting you in this
outlandish place ! Nothing wrong at home, I
hope ? '

Nothing at all,' answered Jacob. ' I have
come out here to try and do some sketching
in the mountains, and I was rather in hopes
that I might chance upon you all and get you
to tell me where the best bits of scenery are.'

Lord bless your soul ! ' laughed Filmer,
you can't walk out here, with your sketchbook
under your arm, as if you was in the
Highlands of Scotland ; nor set you can't
camp out all by yourself. I should say the

best thing you could do would be to buy
yourself a horse and come along with me to
our camp. The governor and Mr. Francis
went up there three days ago, and I'm to
follow tomorrow with some mule-loads of
baggage. I can find sou a broncho easy
enough. I don't say he won't be a buck-jumped
; but that's all one to you.'

After a moment of hesitation, Jacob decided
to accept this offer. Absurd as such a
scruple may seem to have been, under the
circumstances, the idea of receiving hospitality
and assistance from the man whose life he intended
to cut short was repugnant to him.
But as he could see no other Avay of effecting
his purpose, he yielded to necessity, purchased
one of the wiry little animals which were
presently submitted to his inspection, and
returned to his hotel to dinner. The next
morning saw him starting on his sixty-mile
ride, accompanied by Filmer and by a nondescript
individual, hailing from Texas, who
acted as guide and mule-driver.

You don't look over and above well, Mr.

Stiles,' Filmer remarked, surveying him with
a critical eye. ' Been sticking to work in
London too long, or what? Never mind ;
this line air will make another man of you in
no time.'

Do you think so ? ' Jacob answered, absently.


The extraordinary clearness of the atmosphere,
the warmth of the sun, the view of
the glittering snowy range for which they
were making, and the undulating grassy slopes
in the foreground, studded over with endless
varieties of wild flowers, failed to produce any
effect upon him. Indeed, he was scarcely
conscious of these things ; only of a desperate
eagerness to get to the end of what might
probably be his last day on earth. Filmer
related the events and adventures of the past
winter ; the mule-driver cursed his charges
with ingenious elaboration of language ;
somehow or other the hours slipped away,
while the air grew keener and the track
steeper, until at length, just before sunset, a
point was reached whence a couple of tents,

standing upon the verge of the snow-fields
which trended upwards towards Long's Peak,
could be discerned.

As the cavalcade approached, a tall,
bearded man emerged from one of the tents
and gazed at it, shading his eyes with his
hand. Jacob at the same moment recognised
Dick Herbert and saw that he had himself
been recognised. Dick strode forth to meet
him, and, as soon as they were within earshot
of one another, called out : ' Jake, by all that's
marvellous ! Where in the world have you
sprung from ? '

Jacob stated his ostensible errand in a few
words. His voice was steady ; but his hands
were so cold that Dick, when he grasped one
of them, exclaimed: 'Good Heavens, man,
you're half frozen ! Come and warm yourself
by the fire, and in a few minutes you shall
have the best supper you ever sat down to in
your life.'

CHAPTEE Xli.

'FOR HER sake!'

It is necessary to spend many months faraway
from friends and fatherland to realise
the pleasure of beholding a familiar home face
unexpectedly. The face itself need not be that
of a friend ; it is for the sake of the associations
connected with it, not for its own, that
it is so welcome. Expatriated Parisians have
been seen again and again to inhale with rapture
the fumes of boiling asphalte, and it is a
well-known fact that Scotchmen may be made
to weep with joy by the sound of the bagpipes ;
an instrument which, one may venture to say,
is not calculated to draw tears of that particular
kind from the eyes of the profane vulgar.
Thus Dick Herbert, who, when in England,
took very little notice of Jacob (that being

his customary method with persons whom he
did not like), and Francis, who, without
knowing much about the young artist, thought
him an unattractive, sneaking sort of fellow,
vied with one another in their attentions to
him that night among the lonely Colorado
mountains. For him the choicest morsels of
venison were reserved ; in his honour - two
bottles of champagne, out of a very limited
stock, were uncorked ; and when the meal
was over, Dick handed him a cigar, with the
regretful air of one who is parting with his
ewe-lamb, and said : ' There ! it's the last but
two of the English lot. I think I'll smoke
a pipe myself.'

Jacob neither did full justice to these
luxuries nor was especially grateful for them.
He understood very well to what he was
indebted for so much civility ; or at least he
understood it so far as to be in no danger of
mistaking it for a tribute of personal friendship.
Sitting beside the camp-fire, beneath
the twinkling stars, he answered briefly and
somewhat abruptly the questions with which

he was ]plied. Mrs. Herbert lead ]been quite
well when he had left; so had Miss Herbert;
Captain Cunningham was staying in the house,
and appeared to be in a fair way of recovery
from his illness — and so forth. Hope's name
was not mentioned more than once or twice,
and after the first few minutes, Dick began to
make inquiries about the horses and the family
affairs of the tenantry and other subjects upon
which Jacob was able to speak both with
knowledge and with greater ease. Something
polite was said about his own success, and
hopes were expressed for its continuance which
were more sincere than the subject of them
chose to assume. It was not until Dick asked
him point-blank what had put it into his head
to come to Colorado, of all places, that he reassembled
his wits, remembering that he had
still a part to play.

Eeally,' he answered, ' I can hardly tell
you. I was not very well in London; I
thought I wanted a change, and nowadays
one hears so much about the bracing air of
these parts. Besides, I thought the landscapes

upon the walls of the Eoyal Academy might bethe
better of a change, too. We seem to have
had just a Kettle bit too much of Scotch moors
and scenes on the Cornish coast and " Backwaters
on the Thames near Maidenhead." '

May I ask whether it was your intention
to phmge into the heart of the Eocky Mountains,
unaided and alone ? ' inquired Francis.
If so, it seems to me that you were rather in
luck when you chanced to strike our trail.'

Oh,' answered Jacob, perceiving that he
had overacted his part a little, ' I thought it
not unlikely that I might come across you
somewhere, and I Alas sure that, if I did, you
would be kind enough to give me a few hints
and help me on my way.'

That showed a sanguine spirit on your
part. Our being where we are is only the
result of a sudden resolution and of the
total disappearance of game from our winter-quarters.
The week before last we were in
the neighbourhood of Fort Ellis, something
like five hundred miles away, as the crow
flies.'

Mrs. Herbert told me that when she last
heard from you you were near Virginia City,'
remarked Jacob, judging it best not to mention
his abortive journey to that place ; ' but she
seemed to be quite uncertain as to your future
movements, so that there would have been
very little use in my looking for you.'

'You have found us, anyhow,' said Dick ;
and if you'll be advised by me, you will stay
with us. We shall be here or hereabouts for
another three weeks certain, and if you haven't
had enough of wild life by that time, we must
try and get you sent on to the Yellowstone
Park, which you ought to see. But I doubt
whether any of the hotels are open yet, and
you certainly can't camp out all by yourself.'

After this, conversation Alas kept up in a
desultory fashion for another half-hour or so,
when Francis, who had lead a long day's work,
said good-night and retired, yawning, into his
tent. The men, with the exception of Filmer,
were already sound asleep.

'Well, Jake,' said Dick, rising and stretching
himself, ' I think we may as well turn in

now ; Ave don't sit up late in this part of the
world. Filmer, Mr. Stiles will share my tent ;
you have got a spare buffalo-robe for him, I
suppose? '

He threw a few fresh logs on to the fire
and turned away ; but as he was stooping to
enter his tent, Jacob touched him on the elbow
and whispered: 'I have something to say to
you. Not now — we can't talk here, where
every word may be overheard ; but perhaps
tomorrow morning you wouldn't mind riding
or walking With me to some place Avhere I
could get a sketch. Of course I only suggest
that as an excuse for getting rid of Mr. Francis
and the others ; it would be impossible for me
to say Avhat I want to say before them.'

H'm ! * muttered Dick, ' I meant to start
the first thing in the morning after some black-tail
that Ave sav to-day. Is your subject a
pleasant or an unpleasant one, Jake ? '

It is not exactly pleasant.'

And Avon't it keep ? '

Yes ; but it Avon't improve by keeping.'

I suppose not — unpleasant things seldom

do. Very well, then, Francis shall do the
shooting tomorrow, and I'll take you to a spot
from which you will be able to see any amount
of hills and valleys. You had better lie down
and make yourself comfortable now, for you
won't get much sleep after daybreak, I can
tell you.'

Jacob stretched himself upon the couch" of
dried grass which had been prepared for him ;
but for sleep he had neither inclination nor
ability. The time had come, then, at last!
In a few more hours both he and the man who
was lying within reach of his arm, and whom
it was impossible that he should survive, would
have entered upon the sleep that knows no
waking. It was a startling thought ; yet not
so startling as to make him weaver for one
instant in this resolution. He perceived with
satisfaction, and even with a kind of pride,
that his head was cool and his nerves steadier
than they had been since his landing at New
York. The only thing that troubled him was
the treachery, the betrayal of hospitality which
his scheme involved. He would much have

preferred to meet Herbert in fair fight, had he
been able to make sure of killing him in that
way; but it would have been madness to
dream of such an encounter ; because it was
essential that Herbert should die. ' I am
giving up my own life,' Jacob thought; 'I
give it up willingly and gladly for her sake ;
but I won't give it up in vain — I won't give it
\ip for anything less than the certainty of
setting her free.'

By degrees, while he lay there through
the long night hours, listening to the sighing
of the wind among the trees and watching the
flickering shadows thrown upon the canvas by
the flames of the fire outside, as they leaped
and fell, the deed which lie was about to commit
seemed to him more and more like a
righteous one, and lie bes^an to feel himself
something of a hero. It is possible that he
was indeed a hero of a kind ; albeit a misguided
one. Assuming that there are circumstances
which may justify assassination (and
that is an assumption which has never lacked
supporters) one must allow a measure of

heroism to the assassin who sacrifices himself for
absolutely unselfish ends. Whether this can
be allowed to him in the absence of the supposed
justifying circumstances is a question as
to which opinion is likely to be divided. At
any rate, Jacob, whose appreciation of himself
with refijard to the matter had fluctuated considerably,
was able at this eleventh hour to
find comfort in the contemplation of his disinterestedness.


She will never know,* he reflected. ' I
have taken every precaution, and the fact of
their having moved here will be an additional
argument against the theory of malice aforethought.
A year hence, if she thinks about meat
all, she will think of me with a shudder. An
irreclaimable wretch ; a murderer and a forger
whose bad nature resisted all attempts at kindness
— that will be my epitaph, I suppose.
And yet it is simply and solely in order that
she may be happy that I have condemned myself
not only to death but to infamy. I wonder
if there are many men in the world who would
be capable of that ! '

Vol. III. X

In all probability there are not many such
persons ; but their rarity is hardly to be deplored
on behalf of the community at large.

With the first glimmer of dawn the camp
was astir. Filmer's voice was heard outside
in altercation with the cook, who had apparently
overslept himself in an unwarrantable
manner, and had allowed the fire to burn
low; presently Francis came in and woke
Dick, who, in his turn, shouted to Jacob to
get up. It Alas intensely cold, and a bath
in the neighbouring stream appeared so uninviting
that ^ that ceremony was dispensed
with by all but three members of the party.
Dick laughed at the new-comer's ineffectual
efforts to restore circulation by vigorous
rubbing with a rough towel. 'You'll soon
get used to this kind of life, Jake,' said he,
and you'll find it do you a world of good.
By the middle of the day you'll be so hot
you won't know what to do with yourself.
Francis, the honour and pleasure of replenishing
the larder will be yours this morning, and
the sooner you start the better. Jake and I

are going out presently in search of the
picturesque.'

Breakfast — a frugal meal — was disposed
of before the sun was well up ; Francis, with
two companions, set out on foot ; and soon
after they had gone Dick and Jacob, mounting
their horses, rode away in the opposite direction.
For some time neither of them said
much. Every now and again Dick pointed
out some towering snowy peak, mentioning its
name ; once, when they heard the echoing
sound of four shots, fired in quick succession,
he observed : ' That ought to mean one of
them knocked over, anyhow ; ' and shortly
afterwards the sight of a great herd of deer,
grazing quietly within easy range, caused him
to murmur regretfully : ' What a thundering
ass I was to come out With nothing but a whip
in my hand ! '

At length he reined up upon a grassy
plateau where quantities of wild flowers were
drinking in the sunlight that fell aslant upon
them from the east, and said abruptly : ' You
may speak now, or shout, if you like, without

X 2

being overheard. What have you to tell
me?'

Do you remember,' asked Jacob, in a
steady, level voice, ' that just before you left
England I took the liberty of warning you
that there were dangers to which every
woman, no matter how good she may be,
must be exposed when her husband ostentatiously
neglects her ? Do you remember
telling me to mind my own business, and
boasting that you made it a rule to trust
everybody until you were deceived ? '

I don't remember boasting ; I remember
the conversation that you allude to,' answered
Dick, shortly. ' Come to the point, please.'

What I dreaded then has happened, and
nobody is to blame for it but yourself. I
suppose that, if you had not deserted your
wife, the thought of deserting you would
never have entered into her mind. I don't
know that she would desert you even now, if
you returned to her ; but I do know that you
have lost the chance of ever gaining her love.
From the first you did not care for her or

you would have seen what everyone else saw.
Xow it is too late. Cunningham has behaved
badly, if you like — he is unworthy of her
love, if you like ; but that is of little consequence.
The catastrophe is over. She loves
him, and he knows it. More than that, he has
very nearly persuaded her to leave her home
with him.'

With a touch of his heel Dick brought his
horse close alongside of Jacob's, so that the
two men's knees touched one another. 'I
think you are a liar,' he said. ' In any case I
am sure that you came out here on purpose
to tell me this, and therefore your story of
last night was a lie. You will come back to
England with me directly, and if I fid that
you have lied knowingly about my wife, I
will break every bone in your skin.'

Jacob met his e3'es without flinching.
What I told you last nin-ht was untrue.' he
replied. ' I did not wish — nor, I should think
would you wish — that Mr. Francis should
guess my errand. What I have said about
Mrs. Herbert is no lie. ]3ut it does not much

matter whether you believe me or not, because
I am not gong back to England with
you. Neither you nor I will see England
again.'

What do you mean by that ? '
I will tell you. For years I have led as
miserable a life as it is possible to lead. Perhaps
you think it an absurd exaggeration fora
man who has been given the best of food
and clothing to say such a thing ; but I suppose
some men want a little more than
food and clothing to reconcile them to life.
Thanks to you, I have certainly had plenty to
eat and drink ; thanks to you also, I never
had a friendly word addressed to me from the
time that you know of until Mrs. Herbert came
to Farndon. Probably you never noticed how
good she was to me — you were not much
given to noticing anything that she said or
did — but she was good, and I was grateful to
her, as I take it that only a man in my
position could be. The very first time that I
saw her I saw that she was not happy, and it
was not long before I said to myself that, if it

should ever be in my power to make lier
happy I would do so, though it should cost
me my life. I don't know whether I meant
that quite literally at the time — one uses such
phrases without thinking much about the
significance of them — but I mean it literally
now. From what I have seen and heard, I
am convinced that she will never be happy
unless she can marry the man of her choice,
and you will perceive that there is only one
waA' of enabling her to do that.'

Dick measured the speaker from head to
foot with a look of wonder and contempt, not
unmingled Avitli amusement. Jacob's first
announcement had startled, if it had not
alarmed, him ; but the effect of it was greatly
weakened by this harangue, which he found
it impossible to take seriously. ' Are you
threatening to blow my brains out ? ' he asked.
It strikes me, my friend, that you are a pretty
good candidate for a strait-waistcoat. At
least, that's the best excuse I can make for
you. Now you'll oblige me by turning round
and riding back to camp.'

Jacob's answer was to draw his revolver
from this breast pocket.

Quick as thought, Dick, who liaci half expected
this, closed with him, caught him
round the body, and would have dragged him
out of the saddle, had not Jacob been a
perfect horseman and a desperate man into
the bargain. It was a mistaken method of
attack, and it had a disastrous result. With
one blow of the heavy whip which he carried,
Dick might have broken the other's wrist, or
at any rate forced him to drop his weapon ;
but he trusted too much to his own superior
Weight and strength ; and although these
must have told in another minute, there was
not another minute to spare. Jacob was well
aware of that. To take aim was out of the
question, for his right arm, which had been
forced upwards by Dick's shoulder, was almost
powerless ; but he managed to turn the
revolver round and hire. The shot apparently
did not take effect ; but the plunging
of the terrified horses enabled him to free
himself a little. He rose in his stirrups.

knowing that this was his last chance, threw
himself forward, and, pressing the muzzle of
the revolver against this antagonist's back,
drew the trigger a second time. Instantly
Dick's grip relaxed. Without a groan, he fell
upon his horse's neck and rolled heavily to
the ground. Jacob himself being completely
overbalanced, was also unhorsed, and the two
affrighted beasts, freed of their riders, galloped
off in the direction from whence they had come.
The thunder of their hoofs had died away
before Jacob, who had been a little dazed by
his fall as well as by the encounter which had
ended so suddenly, rose to his feet and looked
around him at the snow-capped mountains,
the sunny slopes, and the valleys which
lay in deep shadow. Stretched at his feet,
silent and motionless, was the man Who had
rescued him from the workhouse, had given
him home, money, and education, and who
had been thus rewarded. In that unbroken
stillness the voice that was heard by Cain
seemed to resound in his ears — ' What hast
thou done ? '

For her sake ! ' he cried aloud in a voice
of anguish — ' for her sake ! ' And the mocking
echo of his words Alas thrown back to him
from the chfTs.

He turned hurriedly away, and taking
from his pocket the photograph that Hope
had given, him, gazed at it for a few moments
with eager, straining eyes. ' Good-bye ! ' he
murmured — ' good-bye ! ' Then, a queer sort
of smile curling his lip, ' Good-bye, Jacob
Stiles. It would have been better for you if
you had never been born ; but it seems that
you had your work to do in this world, and
you have done it. Go out now into space ! '

He raised the revolver to his head, pulled
the trigger and dropped, stone dead, a few
yards away from his victim, while a third shot
woke the echoes of the lonely hills, puzzling
those who heard it in the camp far away, and
who knew that ' the boss ' had started on his
ride without firearms.

CHAPTER XLYl.

HOPE TAKES HER OWN WAY.

To be able to do nothing with perfect satisfaction
is a distinct gift. Not many of us
possess it, nor, for that matter, have cause to
covet it ; but it seems probable that so long
as the world lasts there will be drones in every
hive ; and that the drones should have the
power of accepting their situation with ease
and grace is desirable for themselves and hurtful
to nobody. Bertie Cunningham, to whom
absolute idleness, far from being distasteful,
was positively enjoyable, lingered on at Pardon,
although the amusements provided for
him there were neither many nor varied ; and
if he outstayed his welcome, he received no
hint to that effect from his hostess.

One morning he was sittings in Dick's

study, contentedly smoking a cigarette after
breakfast, and wondering whether he ought
to join Carry, whom he couki see loitering on
the terrace outside, when this letters and the
newspapers were brought to him. He ran
his eye over the former and tossed them
aside ; the days when the arrival of the post
had been a bad moment for him were past and
gone now. Then he picked up the Times ^ just
to see whether anything particular had happened,
before turning to the more attractive
columns of the Sportsman. Something had
indeed happened — something that made him
bound out of his chair and drop the paper,
with a cry of consternation. For, under
the heading of ' Latest Intelligence ' was the
folio win £r telegram, dated New York : —

A terrible and mysterious tragedy is reported
from the neighbourhood of Denver,
Colorado. It appears that an Englishman,
Mr. Herbert, who has been for some months
past hunting in the Eocky Mountains, accompanied
by a friend and attended by the numerous
following of which these parties are

usually composed, was joined a few days ago
by a young artist named Stiles, with whom,
it is stated, he was on terms of intimacy.
Whether a dispute arose between these gentlemen,
or whether, as seems more likely. Stiles
was attacked by a sudden fit of insanity, will
probably never be known ; but circumstances
leave no room for doubt that the latter, after
shooting his companion with a revolver, committed
suicide. They appear to have left the
camp together on horseback ; and their friends,
alarmed by the return of the riderless horses,
instituted a search for them which resulted in
the discovery of their bodies, lying side by
side at a distance of some miles from their
starting-point. Mr. Herbert was still breathing,
when picked up ; but no hope is entertained
of his recovery. Stiles, whose death-wound,
it is said, was evidently self-inflicted,
would seem to be identical with the Mr. Stiles
whose pictures, representing yeoman chariot-race
and the Ascot Cup Day, were so much
admired in last year's exhibition of the London
Academy of Arts. Great sympathy is

expressed for the family of Mr. Herbert, who
was well known and popular on both sides of
the Atlantic, and who is understood to have
been only a short time married.'

Bertie, as soon as he had got over his first
shock of horror and bewilderment, walked to
the window, and beckoned to Carry, who
presently joined him.

What is the matter? ' she asked, quickly,
when she saw his grave face.

I don't know how to tell you,' he answered,
' you had better read for yourself.'
And he handed her the Times, pointing to the
paragraph quoted.

Carry's nerves never broke down under
any circumstances, and her senses were always
at her command in an emergency. She was
fond of her brother — more so, perhaps, than
she had ever given him reason to suppose —
but it would have been foreign to her nature
to indulge in lamentations while any active
measures remained to be taken.

'This may not be true,' she said. 'The
first thing to be done is to find out whether

it is or not. Lock up the paper, so that Hope
may not see it, and I will telegraph to Mr.
Francis. You had better ride over to Windsor
with the message. That will not waste much
time, and it would never do to let the people
at the Farndon post-office read it.'

Very well ; I'll go round and get a horse
saddled,' answered Bertie.

But as he was crossing the hall he met the
butler, who handed liii a telegram. This
proved to be from Francis, and ran as follows :
'Herbert badly hurt through an accident.
Extent of injuries not yet certain, but feared
very serious. Consultation of surgeons tomorrow.
Will telegraph result. Do as you
think best about breaking news.'

With this confirmation of the evil tidings,
Bertie returned to Carry, who agreed with
him, that it would be Adviser and kinder to
leave Hope in ignorance of what had happened
until the report of the surgeons should
be ascertained.

There would be no object in keeping her
in suspense for twenty-four hours,' she said.

The whole affair is inexplicable to me. What
reason could that wretch have had for murdering
my brother ? '

'Francis speaks of it as an accident
remarked Bertie.

You or I would have done the same thing
in his place. It sounds less shocking, and
most likely he knows that poor Hope had
taken a fancy to Stiles. We shall have a
terrible scene when she is told, I am afraid.
I don't think she is exactly wanting in courage
; but I should say that she had very little
self-control. We must keep her in the dark
as long as we can.'

But almost before this kindly intention had
been expressed the speaker knew that to carry
it out was no longer practicable. The door
opened, and Hope, deadly pale, but betraying
no other symptom of emotion, advanced
towards the two well-meaning conspirators.

I see that you know it all,' she said,
quietly. ' Will you let me look at the Times ^
please? My maid brought me the Morning
P(?5^ just now.'

What idiots we were not to think of
that ! ' exclaimed Bertie, involuntarily.

Hope glanced at him for a moment. ' Did
you mean to conceal it from me? ' she asked.
That would have been no kindness, and it
would have made me lose precious time.'
She read the few sentences in the newspaper
quickly, and then turned to the advertisement
columns. ' There will be two steamers for
New York tomorrow,' she said. ' I suppose
one or the other will be likely to have a spare
cabin. I can go second class, if all the first
are taken.'

You must not think of doing that,' said
Carry. ' We have had a telegram from Mr.
Francis — here it is — and he is to telegraph
again tomorrow. At least do not start until
we have heard again.'

Why ? ' asked Hope, sharply. ' Why
should I not start ? '

Because — it might be useless.'

Do you mean that he might be dead
before I reached him ? But you can't think
that ! Captain Cunningham ' — with a sudden

Vol. m. Y

and piteous change of voice — ' you don't
think that Dick will die, do you ? '

Bertie was silent, feeling that it would be
more merciful to dishearten than to encourage
her ; but Carry, taking her sister-in-law's
hand, said gently : ' My dear Hope, you are
not fit to undertake such a journey, and you
may be sure that he would not wish it.
There is nothing to be done but to wait as
patiently as we can for more news, and if it is
favourable, as of course it may be '

I cannot wait,' interrupted Hope, who
had already conquered her momentary weakness,
' and I do not believe that Dick will die.
I shall start by the early train tomorrow
morning. If news comes later in the day,
you can telegraph it on to me at Liverpool or
Queenstown ; but I will not run the risk of
being detained here longer than is necessary.'

And from this determination it was impossible
to move her. When they found that
she meant to take her own way, first Bertie,
then Carry, and then both of them, wanted to
go with her ; but that she would not hear of.

She refused even to take her maid, alleging —
probably with truth — that such an attendant
would be far more of an encumbrance than a
help. Finally (for she herself was at last
brought to see that she could not make the
journey quite alone), it was arranged that
she should be accompanied by the butler,
a steady, stolid and not unintelligent Briton,
who might be trusted to shoulder a way for
his mistress through any ordinary difficulties,
and who had been for many years in Dick's
service.

Thus protected, she set off on the following
morning, declining Bertie's proffered escort
as far as Liverpool, and maintaining upto
the last an aspect of cheerfulness which
that young gentleman hardly knew whether
to admire or to deprecate. ' If you hear nothing
before you sail, try to think that no
news is good news,' he said, as he helped her
into the railway-carriage.

There will be no need for trying,' she
answered. ' I am sure that Dick will get
well again, and even if I were not sure, I

would not allow myself to think anything
else.'

To many people the worst contingencies
always appear the most probable, while
others, more happily constituted, seem to be
literally incapable of believing in a crushing
disaster, so long as any room remains for
incredulity. Hope had as yet realised little
more than that Dick was badly hurt and that
she must go to him. Afterwards, when she
had more leisure for reflection, she began to
be very sorry for poor Jacob, who, she
doubted not, had destroyed himself in a
moment of madness. She recollected what
good spirits he had been in at starting, and
was convinced that what he had done could
not have been premeditated. Her conclusions,
in short, were precisely what Jacob had
intended that they should be.

At Liverpool she found, as might have
been anticipated, that the accommodation
which she required was not to be had onboard
either of the outgoing steamers ; but
the ways of travellers to whom money is no

object are generally made smooth for them, and
the captain of one of the vessels was induced
to cede his own cabin, when informed of the
urgency of the case. Brooks, the butler, was
more disappointed than his mistress when
the steamer left Queenstown without any
telegram from Farndon having been brought
on board. ' I did not expect to hear,' Hope
said, in answer to the man's expressions of
regret ; ' and you know, Mr. Herbert can
hardly begin to mend for some days to come.'
It was, perhaps, no bad thing for her that
she was prostrated by sea-sickness immediately
after encountering the long Atlantic
swell, and that for three days and nights she
was unable to lift her head from her pillow.
When at length, dizzy and confused, she
managed to crawl up on deck, she was informed
that the passage was already half
accomplished, and that the daily runs had
been highly creditable. The passengers, who
had discovered her name and errand, showed
her a great deal of kindly attention, doing
their best to keep her mind from dwelling

upon painful thoughts, and assuring her that
the voyage promised to be one of the shortest
on record. Afterwards, when she recalled
that time, it filled her with amazement to
remember that she had talked, eaten, and
slept, like everybody else. Impatient she
certainly was, and anxious to reach Dick's
bedside ; but not once did she give way to
despondency.

You will see that Ave shall find good
news waiting for us at New York, Brooks,'
she said to the butler, who answered, ' Yes'm,'
and tried to look as if he agreed with her.
Personally, he did not feel sanguine ; but the
event proved Hope to be a true prophet ; for
the pilot brought her a despatch from Francis,
who had been informed by telegraph of her
approach, and this, though somewhat short,
was as satisfactory as could be desired.
Herbert is doing fairly well. Bullet extracted.'
More particulars would have been
welcome ; but it was impossible to grumble
at so encouraging a report, and Hope triumphantly
showed it to the sceptical Brooks, as

well as to certain of her fellow-passengers,
who had held aloof, eyeing lier apprehensively
while she perused it, but were now
profuse in their congratulations.

It was only when she was seated in the
train and speeding westwards that the excitement
which had sustained her so long began
to abate a little, and that, for the first time,
it occurred to her to wonder whether Dick
would be pleased to see her or not. She
knew that if there was one thing that he dished
more than another, it was being made
a fuss over, and it seemed quite within the
bounds of possibility that he might consider
her action precipitate and officious. Thus,
having borne a real trouble admirably,
she proceeded to make herself wretched
over an imaginary one, as the habit of many
women is.

Meanwhile, it must be owned that her
arrival in Colorado was not looked forward
to exactly with pleasure by the only person
who as yet was aware of its imminence. The
first thing that Francis did, after superintending

the removal of his wounded friend to
Denver, and hearing the discouraging verdict
pronounced by local talent upon the case, was
to find out the names and addresses of the
two most eminent surgeons in the United
States, and telegraph urgently to them. These
gentlemen at once established the presence of
two bullets in their patient's body. The first,
which had lodged in the muscles of the back,
was not a source of danger to life ; but the
position of the second was less easy to determine,
and they declined at first to give an
opinion as to whether and when it would be
possible to remove it. They considered, however,
that Mr. Herbert's fine constitution and
healthy condition ought to give him a chance
of pulling through, and that much Hope
might have learnt by remaining another two
days in England. As the result of further
investigation and debate, an operation was
decided upon which proved completely successful,
so that at the time when Hope landed
at New York her husband was virtually out
of danger, and Francis, who, up to then, had

had no time for rest or thought, was able to
employ his mind in putting together certain
pieces of circumstantial evidence, and drawing
his own deductions from the same.

It is needless to say that he had already
been interviewed by many representatives of
the press, all of them eager for information
as to the causes of the affray which had so
nearly proved fatal to his friend ; but his
answers had not been considered satisfactory.
Upon being reproachfully reminded that the
public took a keen and legitimate interest in
this thing, he had replied that he could well
sympathise with the public, since that was
exactly the feeling which he himself experienced
; but that he could only recommend
the public to imitate him and be
patient. ' In short, gentlemen, I know no
more about the matter than you do. Mr.
Herbert is not at present in a state to be cross-examined
; but if you will come back again
when he has quite recovered, it will doubtless
give him sincere pleasure to see you. And
now, as I am sure that you must have many

Other affairs of importance to inquire into, I
won't detain you any longer.'

The result of this rather cavalier method
of dealing with the Fourth Estate was the
appearance in print of more than one description
of Mr. Francis, in which his face,
figure, and mode of pronouncing his own
language were freely criticised, while he was
reported as being ' unable or unwilling' to
afford any assistance to those who, in the discharge
of their duty, had called upon him.
Nevertheless, it was true enough that he
knew little more than the interviews, and
even his suspicions were of the vaguest possible
kind. Had he been foolishly and unwarrantably
garrulous, he might have informed
them that he had found a photograph
of Mrs. Herbert tightly clutched between the
linger and thumb of Jacob Stiles' left hand,
and also that, from inquiries which he had
made in Denver, he had ascertained that the
murderer had arrived in that town from
Montana — a circumstance which, to his mind,
was tolerably conclusive as to the question of

premeditation ; but that Alas all, or nearly
all, the foundation that he possessed upon
which to build up a theory; and Dick,
though he had recovered consciousness immediately
after his removal to camp, had
volunteered nothing beyond a bare statement
of the fact that he had been shot by
Jacob.

While his friend's life seemed still to be
trembling in the balance, Francis refrained
from questioning him and indeed from making
any allusion to the circumstances which
had brought him to such a pass ; but he
felt that it would be absurd, not to say impossible,
to observe this reticence for ever ;
so one afternoon when he was sitting by
Dick's bedside he attacked him point-blank
with : ' I say, Herbert, what did that fellow
try to kill you for ? '

I suppose,' answered Dick, staring placidly
up at the ceiling, ' that he didn't like
me.'

Oh — you dismiss the suggestion of insanity,
then ? ' said Francis, quickly.

'Much obliged for the implied compliment.
I don't know that a man's disliking
me is a proof of his sanity ; but it certainly
doesn't prove the reverse.'

'It seems that he disliked himself, too,
since he blew his own brains out after doing
his best to murder you.'

So it seems. But I take it that we should
all prefer committing suicide to being hung.'

'Herbert, what was his motive? You
must know.'

My dear fellow, when a man holds a
pistol to your head there isn't time to go into
these questions of detail.'

But didn't he go into them before he
held the pistol to your head ? '

Oh, if you want to know how it happened,
I'll tell you. We had a dispute, and I lost
my temper with him and threatened to break
every bone in his body if — well, if it turned
out that something which he had asserted to
be a fact was a lie. Then he produced his
revolver and there was a scuffle and I was hit.
That's all. If you insist upon it, I will tell

you what the subject of the dispute was ;
but I'd rather not.'

There was certainly no occasion for Dick
to do violence to his inclinations in that
respect. Francis said nothing more for a
few minutes, and then asked casually : ' Didn't
Stiles profess a great attachment to Mrs.
Herbert?'

'My wife was kind to him,' answered
Dick ; ' perhaps she understood him better
than I did. He seems to have felt that he
was unfairly treated by me. Well, he is
dead now, poor beggar! Suppose Ave talk
about something else.'

All right ; only we mustn't talk too
much about anything just at present. By-the-way,
Herbert, would you like me to send
for your wife ? '

On no account ! ' answered Dick, speaking
with much more animation, and raising
himself on his elbow for an instant. ' You
haven't asked her to come, have you ? '

Oh, no ; I haven't asked her to come.
I have been telegraphing to England, of

course, and I suppose it is possible that she
may come without being asked.'

'I don't think she would do that,' said
Dick, considering ; ' nobody could say that
it was her duty to do that. It would have
been absurd for her to start when any moment
might have brought her the news of
my death ; and now you can telegraph that I
am all right, you know.'

'I couldn't quite say that with truth.'

You can say that I shall be all right ina
week or two, anyhow. Whatever you do,
Francis, don't let her come out ! After what
I told you the other day, you ought to understand
that that would be a great mistake. I
do hope you haven't taken it into your head
that my being knocked over like this gives
a fine opportunity for a reconciliation. I
don't know how you may look at it ; but it
seems to me that to summon her here would
be bringing a most unfair pressure to bear
upon her.'

I have no intention of bringing any pressure
to bear upon anybody,' replied Francis,

with a slight smile, * and I promise you that
if Mrs. Herbert comes here, it will not be my
fault.'

I wonder what she is coming for ! ' he
sohloquised, after lie had left the room. ' A
little bit of show-off, I suppose, combined
with a little remorse. The amazing thing tome
is that any woman in her senses should
throw over a man like Herbert, who adores
her, for a petit maitre like Cunningham, who
cares so little about her that he engages
himself to another woman before her very
eyes. But such is the way of them ; they
can't get on without being told that they
are adored. It's easy enough to guess what
that unfortunate fellow Stiles' errand was.
No doubt he was in love with her, too, and
came out here in a fit of jealousy and spite to
tell her husband some story or other about
her and Cunningham. I should doubt whether
he started with a murderous intention ; as
far as he was concerned, it would have been
more to the purpose to put an end to Cunningham
than to Herbert or himself. And

now the next thing will be that we shall have
the cause of all this promiscuous shooting
here, protesting her innocence, retarding
Herbert's recovery and wanting to nurse him
which, in all probability, she is utterly
incapable of doing. I wonder whether she
would turn back and go home again if I were
to represent to her in very polite language
that she wasn't wanted.'

Thus it came to pass that when Hope
reached her journey's end, she met with a
grave and rather chilling reception from Mr.
Francis. ' Your husband is making quick
progress, Mrs. Herbert,' he said ; ' that is, he
is progressing as quickly as one can expect,
considering that he has lost a great deal of
blood and has been through a sharp operation.
But as for your seeing him — well, really I
don't quite know what to say about that.
I must tell you that he knows nothing of
your having left home. I thought it best to
keep that fact to myself, because my instructions
are that he is on no account to
be agitated.'

Of course,' answered Hope, humbly, ' I
must not ask you to do anything that might
be bad for him ; but would it not be possible
to prepare him by degrees ? Could you not
suggest, for instance, that I should probably
be anxious to be with him ? '

To tell you the truth, that is just what I
did suggest, the other day ; and he replied by
expressing a very strong wish that you should
not be sent for.'

Hope's countenance fell; but she accepted
her sentence without a murmur. ' Then say
no more to him about it,' she returned, ' and
I will wait here until he is strong enough to
see me without risk.'

But that may be weeks, Mrs. Herbert.'

I can't help it if it is months. At least I
shall be at hand in case I am wanted, and
I shall hear how he is every day.'

This submissiveness was so unlike what
Francis had expected that he could not bring
himself to give Mrs. Herbert the ' piece of
his mind ' with which he had several times

YoL. HI. Z

favoured her in imagination. He even apologised
a little : ' One must be guided by the
doctor's orders, you see,' he said — a proposition
to which she at once assented.

However, fortunately for Hope, the doctor
did not prove himself Mr. Francis' ally on
this occasion ; for no sooner had he been
presented to Mrs. Herbert than he declared
that his patient, so far from being the worse,
would be very much the better, for seeing
her ; and when Francis urged the expediency
of delay and the danger of sudden shocks, he
only laughed.

I will take it upon me to say that your
friend's nerves are about equal to standing
that shock, sir,' he answered. ' You come
right in with me, Mrs. Herbert, and don't be
afraid.'

Thereupon he led Hope to the bedroom
in which Dick was lying, pushed her gently
through the door, which he closed behind her,
and, returning to Francis, who was standing in
the passage, remarked : ' I reckon you'll find
that a pretty fair prescription, sir.'

Oh, you think so, do you ? ' returned
Francis, snappishly. ' Then perhaps you will
look in again presently and see how it has
worked. Don't say I didn't warn you, that's
all.'

z 2

CHAPTER Xlvi.

EXPLANATIONS ARE DISPENSED WITH.,

Hope paused on the threshold of the darkened
room into which she had been thrust, her
heart beating fast with apprehension. During
the long journey from New York she had had
time to draw a great many mental pictures of
her meeting with her husband, all of which
had been characterised by a complete absence
of emotional display on both sides. It was
not to be expected — so she had told herself —
that Dick would be overjoyed at beholding her,
nor must she be surprised if, at first, he should
even give her to understand that she would
have done better to remain at home. Nevertheless,
the confirmation of her fears by Mr.
Francis had been a grievous disappointment
to her ; and, the doctor's precipitate action

having deprived her of all presence of mind,
she stood motionless in the doorway, tremblingly
awaiting the exclamation of surprise
and displeasure which never came.

Wlien her eyes became accustomed to the
gloom, she perceived that Dick had the best
of reasons for keeping silence ; and to see him
sleeping soundly was only less of a relief to her
than it would have been to receive his assurance
that she was not unwelcome.

She stole across the room on tiptoe and
looked down at his white face and pinched features
with a feeling of intense sorrow and pity.
Physical suffering is by no means the worst
misfortune which mortals have to bear ; but,
for some reason or other, it is that which
excites by far the keenest and readiest sympathy.
Moreover, in a woman's eyes there is
always something especially pathetic in the
spectacle of a strong man reduced to helplessness.
As Hope gazed, her courage returned
to her, and she ceased to dread her husband's
probable rebuke. Wliat if he should rebuke
her ? After all, it was her right to be where

she was, and she had done nothing to forfeit
that right. She rehearsed a little speech in
which her case was set forth clearly and dispassionately.
She would represent to Dick
that somebody must nurse him, and that she
believed herself to be doing only what was
proper and usual in undertaking that necessary
function. She would then assure him
that he need have no fear of her bothering him
with foolish questions, and that, so soon as he
should be convalescent, she would be ready,
if he desired it, to leave him.

But that speech was never uttered, nor was
any one of the numerous scenes which Hope
had passed through in fancy on her way from
Pardon to Colorado enacted. For when Dick
opened his eyes and saw who was standing
beside him, his brain was still confused with
sleep ; so that, instead of looking annoyed or
distressed or even astonished, he smiled contentedly
and murmured : ' Hope, my darling,
have you come to me at last ? ' — just as any
silly lover might have done who was not approaching
his fortieth year, who did not hold

common sense views on the subject of marriage,
and w^lio had not ample grounds for believing
that a friendly esteem was the utmost that he
could ever look for from the person addressed.
And Hope, for her part, forgot all her good
resolutions, forgot that invalids must not be
agitated and that a nurse Who is lit to be called
a nurse at all must retain her self-command,
whatever may happen. Dropping on her
knees by the bedside, she took Dick's wasted
hand and kissed it again and again, while she
sobbed out something incoherent and unintelligible,
which was not on that account any
the less easy to be understood.

And so everything was explained without
an explanation. There is no better method of
clearing away misunderstandings than this ;
nor, so long as the world goes round, will
lovers have any occasion to use their tongues
while they have eyes to speak with. Moreover,
when they do begin to talk, they almost
invariably talk rubbish ; and this was exactly
what Dick Herbert and his wife did for the
space of a quarter of an hour by the clock.

But when they became more or less rational,
there was, of course, a great deal to be said ;
little, though, of what had lately seemed so important
signified now. Hope got up, dried
her eyes, and seated herself in the chair which
Francis had vacated a short time before.

Now I should like to know,' said she,
radiantly — ' you may call it impertinent curiosity
if you choose — but I should like to know
why you have deceived me all this time ! '

Never deceived anybody in my life,'
returned Dick, in the feeble voice which
sounded so oddly coming from him. ' I'm
incapable of it.'

How can sou say so ? Haven't you told
me, times out of number, that you didn't
care one pin for me? But perhaps yon
didn't care — then.'

You are the only woman in the world
whom I have ever loved, or been near
loving.'

Oh, Dick ! Have you forgotten telling
me about that lady whom you proposed to,
and who didn't return your affection ? '

'Well, that was you. I should have
thought you might have guessed that.'

I didn't guess it ; and it made me very
unhappy. How could I suppose that you
meant such a thing, after your speaking to meas
you had just done ? I don't like to think
of it even now.'

Nor do I, to tell you the truth,' answered
Dick; ' wee won't think about it any more.
But this I will say for myself, that, however
great a humbug I may have been, you were a
worse one. That is, supposing that you have
loved me all along. But I don't believe that
you have. Come now, Hope, upon your
honour — did you love me when you married
me ? '

Hope hesitated. ' I think I must have
loved you almost the first time that we met,'
she said, ' but I didn't know it until long afterwards.
I wasn't quite sure of it, until you
had started for America. But you ought to
have known it.'

I daresay ! In the first place, I had your
distinct assurance that you did riot love me —

mind you, I never made any such declaration
to you — and in the second place, I had to look
at probabilities. It Alas so likely — wasn't it ?
that you should fall in love with an ugly
old fellow '

'Not ugly, Dick.'

Well comparatively ugly and positively
old. It was so likely that you should fall in
love with a man of that description, when you
had another who was superlatively young
and handsome at your feet ! '

Hope held up her hand imploringly.
Don't ! ' she exclaimed. ' When you talk
like that, you make me hate him ; and one
ought not to hate one's brother-in-law. Oh,
Dick, how horrid it was of you not to believe
me when I told you that I hated him ! '

I suppose,' answered Dick, musingly,
that it was as you say, rather horrid of me.
I am sorry for having been so stupid, and it
shall not occur again. Will that do ? '

Hope laughed a little. ' Yes, that will do ;
anything will do now. But what made you
so determined to go away and leave me ? '

Ah, that's rather a complicated question ;
you must put yourself m my place if you want
to understand why I was anxious to get out
of England. But my motives were not entirely
selfish, for all that. As I told you at
the time, I thought it would be best for both
of us that we should part for some months ;
and really it has been best for us, though not
in the way that I meant. I am by no means
sure that we shouldn't have gone on deceiving
ourselves and one another to the end of the
chapter, if it hadn't been for the bullet that is
lying on the table over there.'

Hope started up and examined the missile
alluded to with shuddering interest. ' Oh, if
it had killed you ! ' she exclaimed, presently.

All things considered, I am very glad that
it didn't. I shouldn't have said that an hour
ago, though. My impression then was that
the luck had gone rather against us both —
certainly against you. You were within
something like an eighth of an inch of being
a widow, I can tell you.'

Hope made no rejoinder. After some time

she said : ' It makes me very sorry to think of
poor Jacob. Of course he must have been
quite out of his mind when he attacked you ;
but it was an odd sort of fatality that he
should have met you at all ; for he had
no expectation of doing so when he left
England.'

'Had he not?'

None whatever ; he told me so himself.
Indeed, he seems to have started without any
definite plans. He was rather odd in his
manner on the last evening ; we all noticed it
but there was nothing at all to make one
suppose that he could be losing his senses. I
am afraid his was a very unhappy life. Do
you know, he told me all about that trouble
that he got into years ago, and it distressed
me to hear the way in which he spoke of it.
He seemed to think that you had never forgiven
him and never would ; and upon that
point, at all events, I am sure that he was not
quite sane. I was in hopes that when you
came home I should be able to make you
friends again.'

I doubt whether you would have succeeded


Hope looked surprised. 'But, Dick,
surely you have forgiven him long ago.'

Yes ; but there is a difference between
forgiving a man and making a friend of him.
Jacob Stiles was a bad lot ; that's the long
and the short of it. He is dead, and one would
rather say nothing but good about him ; but
as a matter of fact he was a liar and a sneak.'

I can't agree with you there ! ' cried
Hope, to whom this seemed very unjust.

I know you can't, my dear,' answered
Dick, with a smile ; ' you think all the world
is as honest as yourself, or capable of being
made as honest ; but, unhappily, that is not
the case. At least, I don't think it is the case.
Let us dismiss Jacob Stiles from our minds
and agree to differ about him. We love one
another well enough to be able to afford the
luxury of an occasional difference of opinion.'

The truth is that Dick's opinions were not
easily changed ; and to the present day his
estimate of Jacob's character remains what he

then declared it to be. The man, as he believed
and believes, died with a lie upon his
lips. He never cared to mention that to
Hope, nor deigned to inquire whether there
was the shadow of a foundation for it. Jacob's
pretension of being actuated by a desire to set
Hope free he dismissed as a He like the other
a piece of theatrical bravado, by means of
which a man of that stamp might not improbably
seek to throw a halo over assassination.
Hope herself could not, from the nature of the
case, do full justice to the memory of the man
who died for her. A lunatic who has done
his best to murder the person whom you love
most on earth is not precisely one whom it is
easy to recall with tender feelings ; and indeed
in these latter times Mrs. Herbert has surrendered
much of her independence of judgment,
having insensibly fallen into the habit
of adopting her husband's views (which, to be
sure, have always a basis of sound commonsense
to recommend them), and being disposed
to think that he must be right, even when
at first sight he might appear to be wrong.

It is probably just as well for her that she
should hold that conviction, and it is certainly-well
that she has been spared the pain of
knowing that a stupid and purposeless crime
was once committed for her sake.

For the moment, she was quite willing to
adopt Dick's suggestion and dismiss Jacob
Stiles from her mind. She and her husband
had many things of far greater importance to
say to one another ; and these occupied so
long a time in the telling that Francis, who
had been impatiently awaiting in the next
room the end of this interminable interview,
judged it imperative upon him at last to come
in and put a stop to it.

It was a very pretty little picture that
met his eye when he entered — the young
wife sitting by the bedside, holding her husband's
hand in both her own, while the sick
man, with parted lips and colour a little
higher, perhaps, than the doctor would have
approved, was eagerly listening to her — and
it is melancholy to be obliged to record that
the only comment which this scene drew

from Francis was the unspoken one of : 'By
George ! she's talked him over then, after all.'

Dick raised himself on his elbow and said :
Francis, old man, come here ; I have something
to say to you.'

Won't it keep till tomorrow ? ' asked
Francis. 'It seems to me, by the look of you,
that you have been talking too much already.'

Well, what I was going to say is soon
said ; I only wanted to tell you that it is all
right.'

I am delighted to hear it,' answered
Francis, a little stiffly.

That, I suppose, means that you don't
believe it. What an ass you are, Francis ! I
shouldn't say it was all right if it wasn't ; but
I am too tired to tell you the whole story.
Hope, do you think you can make this pigheaded
fellow understand ? You and he will
have to see a good deal of each other for the
next week or two, I expect, and if you could
manage to make friends it would be more
comfortable for you both. I don't think you
like him very much at present ; but you will,

when you know him better ; and you needn't
hesitate to speak openly to him about — about —
you and me, you know, because he lias heard
already from me all that there was to hear

This speech was not very well calculated
to set either Hope or Francis at ease ; nor, in
spite of the good advice bestowed upon them,
did they at once become friends. In the
course of the evening Hope explained in a
few words that certain clouds which had
arisen between her and her husband had now
been finally dispersed ; to which Francis,
more politely than truthfully, responded that
lie lead always expected that happy consummation
to be reached sooner or later. The
subject was then dropped by mutual consent,
and was not recurred to.

Since those days Hope has learnt to appreciate
the sterling qualities which distinguish
Mr. Francis, and is always ready to
extend a warm welcome to him when he visits
Farndon ; but for the time being, she desired
nothing more ardently than that he should
take himself off and leave her alone with

Vol. hi. A A

Dick. As for him, he had sufficient tact to perceive
the advisability of that course. He only
remained at Denver until his friend's convalescence
was thoroughly established ; and when
he announced his speedy departure for England,
Dick — nothing if not candid — answered
cheerfully : ' All right, old chap, you must be
awfully bored here, and, under the circumstances,
you know, you're rather a bore tous.
Don't mind my saying so, do you ? '

And probably the writer and readers of
this narrative would do well to imitate the
discreet Francis. Once upon a time, as
everybody knows, there was a fox who,
having lost his tail in a trap, endeavoured to
persuade himself and other foxes that he was
far more comfortable without it ; and even
so, many of us who are no longer in a position
to waste our time as lovers do are wont to
smile at youthful follies and affect to prefer
the spectator's more dignified part. But the
pretence takes in nobody. Looking on is dull
work ; we should assuredly not be lookers-on
if we could help it ; nor will any fox deprive

himself voluntarily of the appendage wherewith
Nature has gifted him. Happy those
who at Dick Herbert's time of life can still be
young and still look forward into the future
through the rose-coloured glasses of which we
all once possessed a pair, but which we are
apt, somehow or other, to mislay before even
youth itself is well over. Let us leave this
re-united couple to enjoy the spring weather
in remote Colorado, with the consolatory
assurance that whatever they may have to
say to one another can be of interest only to
themselves.

A A 2

CHAPTEE XLVIII.

CONCLUSION

To be in a fair way towards recovery is one
thing, and to be in a state to take a long
railway journey, cross the Atlantic, and give
away your sister in marriage is quite another.
Dick's restoration to health proved a more
tedious business than had at first been anticipated
; the summer was far advanced before
he was able to return home, and a postponement
of their wedding-day was found
necessary by Miss Herbert and Bertie Cunningham,
who might certainly expect, if ever
any couple had a right to do so, that they
would escape the danger which is said to
threaten those who marry in haste. But at
length they were duly united in the presence
of a large concourse of friends and relatives ;

and, if appearances may be relied upon, they
have neither repented of their bargain yet,
nor are likely to repent of it at any future time.
The first thing necessary to insure contentment
here below is to know what you want,
and the second is to be satisfied with it when
you have got it. Bertie Cunningham and his
wife may be considered to have fulfilled these
conditions. The former resigned his commission
on his marriage, and has been doing
nothing with great assiduity and complete
satisfaction to himself ever since. His wife's
estate in Yorkshire needs a great deal of
looking after, he says ; and he looks after it
by riding in a leisurely fashion over parts of
it when he happens to be at home. For the
rest, he has got together a nice lot of hunters ;
his means permit him to take a Scotch moor
every year ; and as he is most amiable and well-to-do,
he is never likely to want for friends
of both sexes. Whether his wife is ever
jealous of him it would be difficult to say.
She has, at any rate, the wisdom not to be too
exacting, and he is always careful to consult

her wishes and convenience. Upon one occasion
he confided to Mrs. Pierpoint his belief
that Carry, after all, was better suited to a
man of his habits than a certain lady with
whom he would once have considered it the
summit of earthly bliss to spend his life, and
whom he still greatly admires. ' The fact is,'
said he, ' that she would have been too good
for the likes of me.'

And pray, do you imagine that Carry
is not too good for you ? ' Mrs. Pierpoint
rejoined.

No ; but I am good enough for her. Or,
at least, she thinks so, which comes to the
same thing. She is satisfied with the simple
pleasures that satisfy you and me. She is
fond of hunting, she is fond of society, she
doesn't object to the smell of smoke — and so,
you see, we manage to hit it off tolerably
well.'

Mrs. Pierpoint will probably be absent
both from society and from the hunting-field
for some little time to come, being in deep
mourning for the intemperate Marmaduke,

who died somewhat suddenly a few months
ago — ' of general debility,' to borrow the
charitable phrase employed by the doctor
who attended him. As, during his lifetime,
he lost no opportunity of bringing misery
and shame upon his wife, it is only in the
nature of things that his decease should have
left her inconsolable.

Of the other persons who have been more
or less concerned with the course of this story
it is pleasant to be able to give an excellent
report. If there is a woman in England who
is not only fortunate and happy, but actually
admits herself to be so, it is Lady Jane Lefroy.
Only the other day she married her second
daughter to a young man of the highest
position, character and abilities, and is inclined
to take no small credit to herself for
the signal success which has crowned her
efforts on behalf of the three maidens whom
she had on her hands at the time when she
was first introduced to the reader.

'You see, my dear,' she could not resist
saying to Hope, not long ago, ' I was quite

right in choosing Dick Herbert for you. I
was always convinced that he was the man
to be your husband, though you would
not allow it. Another time you will know
better.'

To this boast Hope could only reply that,
while confessing the justice of her aunt's intuitions,
she was not eager to have a second
opportunity of profiting by them.

Jane Lefroy,' says Lady Chatterton, with
a sniff, ' is as proud of her luck as if she
had deserved it. Her niece happened to be
beautiful, and her daughters had a fair share
of good looks, for which I am sure they
were not indebted to her ; so, as I took
them by the hand, they were able to marry
well. How they have got on and will get
on with their respective husbands is another
question.'

But even Toady Chatterton cannot help
worshipping success, and she has taken to
treating her old friend with considerably more
respect than of yore.

Mr. Lefroy threatens to retire from

Parliament at an early date. Tie House of
Commons, he says, is no longer what it used
to be. A man doesn't meet his friends there,
and the iniquitous folly of the views held
upon the subject of land by certain right
honourable gentlemen opposite is enough to
make decent people hesitate about even sitting
in the same Assembly with such mischievous
and ignorant prigs. ' As I am speaking privately,
and cannot be called to order, I shall
not withdraw the expression " mischievous
and ignorant prigs." If that is the sort of
thing that passes for statesmanship nowadays,
all I can say is, the sooner we imitate
the Americans, and leave politics to the professional
politicians, the better.' It is said,
however, that the leaders of Mr. Lefroy's
party are most unwilling to lose his support
m the House, and that he has yielded — at all
events, provisionally — to their solicitations.

When Tristram heard of the drama which
had been enacted in Colorado, he was greatly
agitated and distressed, feeling that he ought
to have foreseen and might have prevented it.

His first impulse was to go straight down to
Farndon and see Hope ; but luckily he did
not act upon this, and the subsequent course
of events determined him to keep his own
counsel. No good purpose, assuredly, could
have been served by his demonstrating, as he
might have done, that Jacob had attempted
Mr. Herbert's life in cold blood, and he did
not desire to affix a stigma to the memory of
a young artist who had succeeded in enlisting
his sympathies. As being in some sort Jacob's
executor, he felt bound to give effect to the
testator's last wishes, though with some misgivings
as to the good taste of so doing. He
accordingly hired a gallery in Bond Street,
where he exhibited the painting of Cain
during the ensuing season, and where it drew
immense crowds.

The criticism of the experts was such as
might have been anticipated. Full justice
was done to the merits of the composition ;
the genius of its author was extolled and his
premature demise lamented ; a good deal was
said about the ' lurid light ' cast upon the

subject chosen by ' circumstances which will
be fresh in the memory of our readers ; ' and
one writer went so far as to aver that it was
impossible to study closely the expression
given to the countenance of Cain in this
striking picture without a painful conviction
that the hand which painted it was that of
one already attacked by the first symptoms of
homicidal mania.'

Nothing more than this was required to
call forth from Tristram — who happened to
have held much the same opinion himself
until he saw it in print — a torrent of scorn
and derision. ' That's your art-critic allover
! ' he exclaimed. ' Homicidal mania,
indeed ! — homicidal grandmother ! Because,
forsooth, a man who undertakes to paint a
murderer makes him look like a murderer
he is a homicidal maniac ! " Who drives
fat oxen should himself be fat." I suppose
the next thing we shall hear will be
that Leonardo da Vinci was attacked by the
first symptoms of kleptomania because he
could give a life-like representation of Judas

Iscariot. What, I wonder, ought poor
Stiles to have made Cain look like in order
to prove his own sanity and morality — a
Methodist parson ? '

But Tristram took up quite another tone
when discussing this matter with one commentator
upon Jacob's last effort, who had
visited the gallery at the close of the season,
and had left it with a grave, sad face.

'It is a distressing picture,' Hope said,
but I am glad to have seen it — glad and
sorry. It makes my heart ache for poor
Jacob ; and yet it is a satisfaction to me to
get rid of the doubt that has sometimes tormented
me as to whether he was really as
innocent as I thought him at first. He had
a curiously strong feeling of resentment
against my husband, and for himself I know
that he valued life very little. But after
looking at that picture, I am certain that he
must have been deranged. One sees in every
line of it how intensely he realised the
situation, and there is nothing far-fetched in
the idea that it ended by affecting his brain.

You agree with me, don't you ? ' she added,
eagerly.

I do not believe.' replied Tristram, ' that
the poor fellow was responsible for his actions.
I should like you to keep a corner for him in
your kind heart, Mrs. Herbert, because I
am persuaded of one thing, and that is that
he would never willingly have done you an
injury.'

Poor Jacob ! ' sighed Hope ; ' he did meno
injury. On the contrary, he did me a
great kindness, without intending it ; for if
he had not tried to kill Dick, I should not
have gone to America ; and perhaps, if I had
not gone to America '

She left her sentence unfinished, but
Tristram had no difficulty in filling up the
hiatus. He understood quite well that Jacob
by failure had achieved success, and that the
luckless young fellow's death had, after an
unexpected fashion, brought happiness to her
for whose sake he had been content to die.

Happy she undoubtedly is — happy in her
home, in her husband, and now also in her

child ; for the birth of a son and heir has
recently been made the occasion of great
rejoicing on Mr. Herbert's estates. She has
not abandoned her artistic tastes, and devotes
a certain portion of each day to work in the
new studio which Dick has caused to be
built for her. It is scarcely likely that she
will ever rise above the level of an exceptionally
clever amateur ; but she still cherishes a
secret ambition of some day or other seeing
a work of hers hung upon the walls of the
Eoyal Academy, and in this Tristram does
not fail to encourage her — not, indeed, because
he attaches much value to the desired
distinction, but because, as he says, it would
be a pity that she should not have something
left to hope for.

THE END.

(G. k C.)

Printed BY

SPOTTISWOODB AND CO., New-street Square

LONDON

OUR RADIO Ali : a Tale of Love aud Politics. By the late Colonel
Fred Buhnaby. In Two Vols.
Certain to be very widely read'— Globe.

VENDETTA ! By Marie Corelli, Author of ' A Romance of Two
Worlds.' In Three Vols.

AT jLE Grl ATsTOE . By Ida Ashworth Taylor, Author of 'Venus'
Doves,' ' Snow in Harvest,' &c. In Two Vols. Crown 8vo.

THE LONG Laisse. By Ethel Oxon, Author of ' Monsieur Love,
'A Basil Plant,' &c. In Two Vols. Crown 8vo.

KATHARINE BLYTHE. By Katharine Lee, Author of ' In
L >ndon Town,' ' A Western Wildflower,' &c. In Three Vols.
The narrative runs easily, and the stage is well filled.' — Athenaeum.

NO SAINT. By Adeline Sergeant, Author of 'An Open Foe,'

Beyond Recall,' &c. In Two Vols.

This is not merely by far the best novel Miss Sergeant has produced, but merits a
markedly high place among the novels of the season.' — spectator.

THE QUEEN'S HOUSE. By Lizzie Alldridge, Author of ' The
Tower Garden ' &c. In Three Vols.
'The book may be heartily recommended'— Globe.

ALICIA Tenant. By Frances M. Heard, Author of ' Near

Neighbours,' ' Cartouche,' &c. In Two Vols.

It would be bard to mention one of Bliss Heard's beautiful stories that is more
exquisitely finished than *' Alicia Tenant." 'spectator.

TRANSFORMED. A New Story by Florence Montgomery, the
popular Author of ' Misunderstood ' &c. In 1 vol. Crown 8vo. 5s.

London : RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, New Burlington Street,
Publishers in Ordinary to Her Majesty the Queen.

PUBLISHED BY

RICHARD BENTLEY & SON.

Each Volume to be had separately, with the exceptions shown,
in crown 8vo. cloth, price 6s.

The Sporting Life of the Rev. * Jack ' Russell 6s.

Milford's Recollections of a Literary Life's 6s

Brindled Richards' Seven Years at Eton. 6s,

Low's Life of Lord Wolseley.f 6s.

Bishop Thirlwall's Letters to a Friend. f 6s.

W. H. Matlock's Social Equality. 6s.

W. H. Matlock's Atheism and the Value of Life. 6s.

Arnold's Turning Points in Life. 6s.

The Ingoldsby Legends 6s.

Ashley's Life of Lord Palmerston 2 vols. 12s.

Stephen's Life of Dean Hooks 6s.

The Life of the Rev. R, H. Bashan (Thomas Ingoldsby).! 6s.

Sir E. Oreasy's Fifteen Decisive Battles. 6s.

Sir E. Oreasy's History of the English Constitution. 6s.

Sir E. Oreasy's History of the Ottoman Turks. 6s.

Guizot's Life of Oliver Cromwell 6s.

Magnet's Life of Mary Queen of Scots 6s.

Bashan's Life of Theodore Hook. 6s.

Baker's Our Old Actors-f 6s.

Prison's Biographies of Celebrated Violinists. 6s.

Hazard's The Dead Cities of the Sunder Zee.f 6s.

Timbs' Lives of Painters. f 6s.

Timbs' Lives of Statesmen.! 6s.

Timbs' Wit and Humorists. f 2 vols. 13s.

Timbs' Doctors and Patients. 6s.

The Bentley Ballads. 6s.

Cooper's Coral Lands of the Pacific. f 6s.

Wood's Cruise of the Reserve Squadron. f 6s.

Wood's In the Black Forest. f 6s,
f These Volumes contain Portraits, Illustrations, or Maps.

To be obtained at all Booksellers* .

London : RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, New Burlington Street,
Publishers in Ordinary to Her Majesty the Qi

nieen.

3 0112 052948624

;i' . .:;.Y^.^:>-;<:^;:.

■■-:'i-

,cn:,: :■■: 1^
