"LI B R.AR.Y

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
or ILLINOIS

V.I ^

VOL. I.

BY

W. E. N ORRIS

1 X T w o V o L u ^^ E s

VOL. I

lotion

MACMILLAN AND CO.

AND NEW YORK


All Rights Reset Ted

BREAD STREET HILL, LONDON,

Bungay, Suffolk.

Page 53, Vol. I., line 1,/or "viscounts" rccul "earls."
Page 72, Vol. I., line 8, /or "a viscount " read " an earl."

,, ,, line 9, for ** an earl " read *' a marquis."

Page 160, Vol. I., line 3, /or "earl" read, "marquis."
Page 53, Vol. II., line 11, /or "earl" rcadj "marquis."
Page 206, Vol. II., line 67, /or " viscountess " read. " countess.'

TT A I-. c-r-n.cITT' Utl I I r>MnAM

-i

r MY FRIEND JIM.

^

CHAPTER I.

I REMEMBER it all as clearly as if it
had happened yesterday afternoon. It is
sone of those little scenes which, without
being specially significant or suggestive,
manage somehow or other to
imprint themselves upon the memory,
and which remain there while so many
- hundreds of others fade away and
.: vanish, as the years go on. When I
closed my eyes for a moment just now

VOL. I. B

the whole thing came back to me — the
dark, musty-smelling study, with one
broad sunbeam stretching right across
it from the window ; Bracknell, Jim,
and I standing close together beside
the high, empty fire-place ; old Lord
Staines, looking uncommonly smart and
spruce (as he always did in those days),
a flower in his buttonhole, and a smile
of serene beatitude on his handsome
face ; and my tutor blinking through
his spectacles and addressing himself,
after his customary fashion, to no one
in particular.

'' I shall be sorry to lose these three
fellows," says he. '' They aren't bad
fellows, you know, taking them all
round, and I fancy they will succeed as
well in the world as they have succeeded

at Eton. Yes, just about as well.
Bracknell — well, I don't see what more
could have been asked of Bracknell
than that he should get into the eleven,
and avoid getting into any serious
scrapes. He is good-looking, he is
good-natured, and from time to time I
have even observed gleams of — er — intelligence
in him. Bracknell will do ;
he will adorn his station. Well, then,
Maynard. jNIaynard is clever, if not
quite so clever as he thinks himself.
I hardly expect him to set the Thames
on fire ; but I hope his mother will
never have reason to be ashamed of
him, and I have written to her, telling
her that I consider him my show pupil.
More than I oucrht to have said,
perhaps, but there's no fear of her

B 2

disbelieving me. As for Leigh (here
my tutor took a few steps forward and
patted Jim on the shoulder), what is to
be said about you, Leigh ? In classics
you are but moderate ; in mathematics
I understand that you are also moderate
; you're not in the eleven ; you're
not in the eight ; I doubt very much
whether you would be in the boats at
all if you hadn't so many friends. In
short, Leigh, you are mediocre. But
you're the best fellow of the lot, all the
same. And, that being so," added my
tutor, looking up with a queer, kindly
smile at the young giant who towered
nearly a head and shoulders above him
'^ I should be inclined to prophesy, Leigh,
that you will always have plenty of
friends, and that you will possibly be —

er — more or less imposed upon all your
life long."

Lord Staines broke out into laughter
at this rather cynical prediction. " We'll
look after him' said he ; " we'll see
that you aren't imposed upon, Leigh'

And I dare say he thought himself
quite capable of so doing, although his
own career might not have recommended
him to an impartial person as being the
fittest man in the world to undertake
that task. He had always taken a
good-humoured and somewhat patronising
interest in Jim, whose father and
mother were both dead, whose small
property adjoined his more extensive one
in Berkshire, and who — above all — was
his boy's friend. He thought very well
of the lad, and indeed was kind enough

to say as much there and then. As for
Jim's being "the best of the lot," that
of course was only a joke. It is not in
the least likely that Lord Staines would
have been angry with any one who
should have seriously declared Jim to be
Bracknell's superior. When one is fortunate
enough to be the owner of a
Derby winner one is not quite so silly
as to lose one's temper with a man for
proclaiming his own steady, useful roadster
to be the more valuable animal of
the two.

Poor old Lord Staines was a fond and
foolish father, no doubt. I have heard
him so described with such wearisome
frequency that I should very much like
to contradict the statement if I could.
That being impossible, I will only venture

to assert that there were excuses for him.
Everything leads me to believe that if
I had a son as handsome, as muscular,
as recklessly brave and jolly, and devil-may-care
as Eracknell was In those
days, I should be proud of him. These
attributes may or may not constitute a
legitimate cause for parental pride ; but
I suppose it will hardly be denied that
they usually excite it. At the same time,
it must be admitted that Lord Staines
was a little bit outrageous in his crowing
and chuckling, and one can't wonder that
some of his friends laughed at him, while
others found him rather a bore. Whenever
there was a cricket match on he
would collect as many cronies as he
could induce to accompany him, and
would draor them down to Eton to watch

his boy bowling and slogging. He himself
never wearied of this delightful
spectacle, and could not understand that
it might eventually pall upon others.
He kept Bracknell supplied with plenty
of pocket money, laughing good-humoured
at the rapidity with which It was
spent. I don't suppose that he even
minded much when certain longish bills
were sent in to him by the Windsor and
Eton tradesmen, some of whom respectfully
intimated that they had not been
paid for three years. He, too, had always
been open-handed, careless and extravagant
; probably he thought it only natural
that his son and heir should resemble
him, and if by any chance he ever considered
the effect of two generations of
extravagance upon a not very magnificent

rent-roll, he doubtless said to himself that
some day Bracknell Avould marry a woman
with money, and that then it would be
all right. Such was the course which
he had adopted, and it had answered
admirably. That is to say that he had
not, at the time of which I am speaking,
yet reached the last shilling of his late
wife's fortune.

He was, at any rate, evidently free
from misgivings on that last day of
Bracknell's Eton life ; for he was
literally brimming over with contentment
and goodwill. He shook hands with
us warmly when the time came for us to
wish him good-bye, repeating to us both
again and again that, although our friend's
path in life would no longer be the same
as our own (for Bracknell was to join

the 4th Life Guards immediately, while
Jim and I were to proceed in due course
to Oxford), yet we were on no account
to imagine that our friendship was at
an end.

We shall all meet at Staines Court
before long. Well, perhaps not next
autumn, because I shall be in Scotland
until rather late in the year ; but sometime,
you know — some time. And Blackwell
weill run down to Oxford and look
you up. Or why not join us in the
north, both of you ? Are you fond of
stalking ? Never tried it ? Well, well,
everything must have a beginning.
Bracknell is as fine a shot for his years
as I ever saw. Now mind, we shall
count upon seeing you. Good-bye, my
dear fellows, good-bye."

Then he hurried off to Goodwood,
taking Bracknell with him, and, I should
think, forgot our existence with very
great celerity.

I remember that, after we had seen the
last of them, Jim said, with a sigh, '* What
a splendid fellow he is ! " and was quite
angry with me for pretending to think
that he alluded to old Staines. I never
shared Jim's enthusiastic admiration for
Bracknell ; but then I am not of an
enthusiastic temperament, and have a
quick eye (so, at least, I am assured)
for any blemishes that may disfigure the
characters of my friends. At all events,
I thought I had discovered some blemishes
in Bracknell's character, and that selfishness
was one of them and fickleness
another. My impression certainly was

that he would trouble himself very little
more about us from the moment that circumstances
ceased to throw us together ;
and I have much pleasure in admitting
that therein I did him an injustice.
We did not, of course, take advantage of
that somewhat vague invitation to become
• Lord Staines's guests in the Highlands ;
but a few months later Bracknell redeemed
his father's promise that he should look
us up at Oxford, and, falling in with many
other old Etonians there, had such a gay
and uproarious time of it that he was
easily persuaded to repeat his visit at an
early date. Indeed, during the following
two years, he used to make periodical
descents upon Christ Church, where a
band of choice spirits was ever ready to
welcome him, and where his arrival was

Invariably the signal for a bear-fight upon
an unusually extensive scale. On the
ensuing day Bracknell would return to
London, leaving poor Jim to face the
college authorities, who, however, generally
let him off easily. I fancy they knew
pretty well that he was sure, under all
circumstances, to be made the scapegoat ;
moreover, it really was not in human
nature — no, not even in donnish nature —
to be hard upon Jim Leigh.

Every now and again Jim would get
leave to go up to London for a day,
whence he would return a little pale and
fagged, but quite delighted with the hospitality
of the officers of the 4th Life
Guards, whose existence, according to his
account, would appear to have been a
merry one. I can't speak of it from

personal knowledge. Bracknell never
asked me to visit him in London ; nor
did I participate in the bear-fights to which
allusion has been made. For one thing,
I was a reading man, and for another,
I couldn't have ventured to run the risk
of being rusticated and breaking my
mother's heart. Jim, as I have mentioned
before, was an orphan, and the
worst that could have happened to him
would have been no such serious matter
in his case.

On attaining the age of one-and twenty
he was duly placed in possession of his
estate, together with personal property
which, I believe, made his income up to
something over five thousand a year ; so
that he was in all senses of the word
independent. At his request, however,

his uncle and aunt who had resided at
Elmhurst throughout his long minority,
consented to remain there until he should
marry ; an event which I had reason to
think might not be very remote. But
this was a profound secret. Jim had let
me into it because from our earliest boyhood
he had had no secrets from me ;
but to not another soul had he spoken
of his hopes — least of all to the lady who
was the object of them.

I should be very glad to be able to
write of Hilda Turner with perfect impartiality
; for were that in my power I
should probably convey a far better idea
of her to the reader, who if he had met
her in the flesh would doubtless have been
fascinated by her, as most people were,
and might even have fallen in love with

her, as a great many did. But the simple
truth is that I never could endure the
girl ; and so my evidence must be taken
for whatever that of a prejudiced witness
may be worth. I have, at any rate, no
hesitation in allowing that she was extremely
pretty, although her beauty was
not of a regular order, and that her
manners were charming, although they
did not happen to charm me. She was
one of those very fair people whose complexions
are of the clearest white, the
bloom upon whose cheeks is of the most
delicate and exquisite pink, and who seldom
become wrinkled before they reach
extreme old age. I am told that these
enviable peculiarities are due to thickness
of the epidermis, and I have sometimes
fancied that persons so gifted are apt

also to be endued with a certain mental
toughness of hide which may perhaps
be of some assistance in preserving the
smoothness of their brows. But I don't
insist upon that point. Hilda had golden
hair and blue eyes, and if everybody had
teeth like hers the dentists would be
driven to find another occupation. To
be sure when you began to criticise there
were plenty of faults to be found with
her face. Her nose, for instance, was
too short, her jaw was too square, and
her lips were a trifle too thin. I remember
once pointing out these defects to
my mother, who shook her head, and
said that if I expected perfection I should
have some difficulty in finding a wife.
Certain it is that I am unmarried still
(though not, I think, on account of the
VOL. I. c

cause assigned), but I am very sure that
my mother would have chosen that I
should remain a bachelor to my dying
day rather than that I should fall in love
with Hilda Turner.

I suppose that never since the world
began did there live quite so poor a
judge of character as my dear mother.
Partly from having seen very little of the
bad side of human nature — for she has
been a confirmed invalid, unable to put
a foot to the ground, almost from the
time of my birth — partly from her unquestioning
faith In the wisdom and
mercy of an overruling Providence, which
causes her to take an optimistic view of
everything, her own constant sufferings
included ; partly, too, from the natural
sweetness of her disposition, which renders

her, I do believe, incapable of conceiving
that any one can be intentionally
wicked, she habitually regards others as
she wishes them to be, and by no means
as they actually are. Yet I recollect
that upon one occasion she gave me to
understand, with a good deal of circumlocution
and hesitation, that she feared
Hilda Turner was not an entirely
straightforward girl. What her grounds
were for formulating this tremendously
severe charge I could not induce her to
divulge ; but I suspect that she had
caught the young lady in an unequivocal
hb. I could have told her that that was
no uncommon occurrence, but I never
did tell her such things when I could help
it, because the only effect of my doing
so was to give her unnecessary pain.

C 2

If she had some misgiving aBout Hilda,
she had none at all about Hilda's father,
the rector of the parish, of whom she
always spoke as *' good Mr. Turner."
Good Mr. Turner was — not to mince
matters — an ass. There was no harm in
him. He pottered about the parish, did
a little work, preached us a sermon once
a week, which had at least the merit of
brevity, and was benevolent in a passive
sort of way. Hilda ruled him — I won't
say with a rod of Iron, for no such formidable
weapon could possibly have been
required for so gentle a creature ; but at
any rate she ruled him absolutely.

Our neighbourhood not being a very
thickly inhabited one, the few families
who lived within a mile or two of each
other were naturally intimate. Hilda and

Jim and I had grown up from childhood
together as companions, and when the
Henleyss were at Staines Court we also saw
a good deal of Bracknell and his sister.
However, after Lady Staines's death, the
great house was generally empty. Lord
Staines was always in London or in
Scotland, or at Newmarket, or at some
other of the resorts where he spent his
money so freely, and it was only at rare
intervals that quiet little Lady ?mildred
would come down for a week or so,
attended by her governess and accompanied
by one of the aunts who looked
after her. She was a demure little mouse
of a thing, with bright brown eyes, which
saw a good deal more than was commonly
supposed, and as kind a heart as ever
beat ; but as she was rather shv, and had

a way of keeping her opinions to herself,
nobody noticed her much. She and Hilda
were by way of being friends, although
it is scarcely possible that there can have
been any real sympathy between them,
and when Hilda was in her nineteenth
year, Mildred's aunt, Lady Wentworth,
very good-naturedly invited the rector's
daughter to spend a season with her in
London, and presented her at Court.

'' I rejoice," Mr. Turner used to say,
in his placid, deliberate way, " that dear
Hilda has kept up her friendship with
Lady Mildred. I have encouraged It (I
dare say he really thought that his encouragement
might be a factor in the
question), both because refined companionship
cannot but be beneficial to the
young, and because I feel that it is

desirable that she should see something
of — well, of the best society of the day."

Doubtless Hilda also felt the latter
result of her intercourse with Lady
Mildred to be highly desirable. As for
the refined companionship, I dare say
she might have made shift to do without
that at a pinch.

I can't tell whether it was after Miss
Turner's introduction to the " best society
of the day " that Jim first discovered how
desperately he was in love with her ; but
it was about that time that — to my sorrow,
though not to my surprise — he made me
acquainted with the state of his feelings.
It was not, however, until more than a
year later, when we had both bidden
farewell to Oxford, that matters approached
a crisis. Up to then Jim's

attentions had been of a most modest
and tentative order. He had a poor
opinion of his personal charms, and preferred
the agony of suspense to the risk
of rejection. I am afraid I must plead
guilty to having encouraged his diffidence.
To confess the truth, I thought
it was upon the cards that so captivating
a young lady as Miss Turner might
chance upon somebody in London whose
claims to her regard might be greater
than poor Jim's. But such did not
prove to be the case. Five thousand a
year is not a colossal income, yet, if you
will take the trouble to run over the list
of your acquaintances, you will find that
the bachelors who possess as much are
in a small minority ; and it seems possible
that Hilda may have made that calculation.

And so, one fine hot month of July,
when Cranfield Rectory, embosomed
among its spreading trees, looked the
very spot for the enacting of a pastoral
idyll ; when the great level lawns at
Staines Court were gay with flowers,
which there was nobody but the gardeners
to admire, and when our own humble
domain was, as my mother, who took
immense pride in it declared, " quite a
show," it came to pass that two young
people were constantly to be seen, riding
or walking together among the lanes and
woods, of whom it might be said that they
formed a very handsome couple. Not
that our big-boned, broad-shouldered Jim,
with his hook nose, his quiet grey eyes,
and that large mouth of his, which, upon
the smallest provocation, would widen

itself into a smile extending from ear to
ear, was strictly speaking a handsome
man, but perhaps he was near enough
being so to justify the above good-natured
description, which was uttered by many
persons, the Reverend Simeon Turner
included. The Reverend Simeon was not
ambitious. A son-in-law with five thousand
a year, a high moral character, and
a malleable disposition was good enough
for him.

I was then about to be called to the
Bar, and was busy reading law, a study
which I thought at the time, and think
still, to be among the most repulsive that
a moderately intelligent human being can
bring his mind to bear upon. One afternoon,
while I was sitting with somebody's
Common Law Procedure, and I forget

whose Precedents of Pleadings open before
me, Jim lounged into my den, and, seating
himself sideways upon the table, remarked
that he was the happiest fellow in Christendom
or something to that effect.

When you know that your friend is
absolutely bent upon making a fool of
himself the very stupidest thing in the
world is to tell him so. I endeavoured
to look delighted and said, 'has she
accepted you, then ? "

** Well, no," he answered ; " she hasn't
exactly accepted me, for the reason that I
haven't asked her ; but I think it will be
all right. Harry, old chap, I don't know
what I have done to deserve such luck ! "

Nor did I. I am quite sure that he
had never done anything to deserve it ;
but the thing had come upon him

nevertheless ; and, after all, one sees
many prisoners who hug their chains
contentedly. " And why," I inquired,
haven't you proposed to her ? "

Jim laughed. 'i'm such a duffer!"
he replied. " It takes me a long time to
get under way, and when I am coming
to the point she always manages somehow
or other to put me off. Well, it doesn't
much matter ; there's no hurry, you
know."

** None whatever," I agreed, thinking
to myself that, so long as the fatal words
remained unspoken, there was always
just the ghost of a hope left for him.

And then he threw himself into my
armchair, lighted a cigar, and began to
rhapsodise after a fashion which it would
be as tedious to write about as to read

It was at this somewhat critical juncture
that Lord Staines took it into his head
to come down to Staines Court, with the
avowed intention of remaining there fora
considerable time. His arrival, which
had been preceded by that of his French
cook, his house-steward, his groom of
the chambers, and heaven only knows
how many other domestic functionaries
(for his style of living had always been
far in excess of that warranted by his
income), caused quite a little stir in the

vicinity, and set everybody conjecturing
as to its causes. What these were was
revealed to us the next morning by Lady
Mildred, who lost no time in walking over
to see my mother.

*' Papa has been very unlucky this
year," she said, in her gentle, matter-of-course
way. *' First of all, his horse lost
the Derby by a head, as you know "

*' My dear," interrupted my mother, " I
am afraid I know nothing about the
Derby, except that it is a race which
takes place every spring."

'' No, you wouldn't. But papa knows
a great deal about it, and even I know
something. Premier must have won if
he had not been interfered with. It was
nobody's fault, but it was poor papa's
misfortune ; and since then he has been

unlucky at Ascot also. So there is to be
no yachting this summer, and we are
going to remain here quietly and ask
hardly anybody to stay with us."

'' It is an ill wind that blows nobody
any good," remarked my mother; "it
will be a great pleasure to the young
people to have you near them. And,
perhaps," she added meditatively, "these
losses may prove a blessing in disguise to
Lord Staines if they induce him to leave
off betting on horse-races, which I cannot
think right. Because, you see, if one
man wins money others must lose it."

Lady mildred admitted that that was
probably the case, but doubted whether
the losers were often prevailed upon to
give up the game. *ras for me," she
said, '' I would always rather be at

Staines Court than anywhere else ; and
Bracknell is coming down in a few days,
so that it will be quite like old times
again. But I am afraid he will find it
too dull to stay long."

'* Oh, but he will have plenty of companions,"
said my mother, in the innocence
of her heart. " There is Harry,
you know, and Jim Leigh, and Hilda
Turner."

Lying there upon her sofa year after
year, day following day, with no change
or the possibility of it, it was difficult
for her to realise how quickly boys and
girls become men and women. The
boy, it is said, is father to the man, and
one must assume, by parity of reasoning,
that the girl is mother to the woman.
The theory is a somewhat discourao^-ino-

one, when considered, but I am bound to
confess that my own observation tends to
confirm It. When my tutor predicted
that Bracknell would adorn his station,
I take It that he spoke with a spice of
that good-humoured malice In which he
sometimes permitted himself to Indulge.
Bracknell at the age of twenty-three was
probably very much what my tutor had
anticipated that he would be. He was
one of the handsomest young men about
London ; he was Immensely in request
with that class who have come to be
known in these latter days as the '^ smart
people " ; his affaires de coeur had been
numerous and a trifle ostentatious ; he
was owner, or part owner, of several
horses which had achieved a certain
celebrity ; and he was pretty deeply In

VOL. I. D

debt. I should be puzzled to say what
good qualities he possessed beyond that
of pluck, but I do not in the least
wonder at his great popularity. Jim,
who persisted in regarding him as a
bright particular star, was overjoyed on
hearing that he proposed to honour our
quiet neighbourhood with his presence
for a time, and it struck me that Hilda's
eyes glistened' when this cheering intelligence
was conveyed to her.

We all — that is, the Turners, Jim, and
myself — were invited to dine at Staines
Court on the evening of his arrival ; and
I declare that we had not been seated
at the table for five minutes before it
was perfectly clear to me that Miss
Hilda intended to make him her captive.
What put this beyond a doubt

was the obstinacy with which she declined
to have anything to say to him.
Lord Staines, who took her in to dinner,
was obviously depressed and preoccupied
when we sat down ; but Hilda put forth
all her very considerable powers of
pleasing, and by the time that the fish
was removed she had contrived to put
her neighbour in the best of good
spirits. No man was more truly appreciative
of feminine beauty and wit than
Lord Staines. Meanwhile, Bracknell,
who had old Turner on his right hand,
speedily realised that he had a very
charming person on his left; and it was
not a little amusing to see the look of
blank astonishment which overspread his
features when, after repeated attempts to
attract Hilda's notice, it dawned upon

D 2

him that she really preferred his father's
conversation to his own. I suppose that
never before in his life had he known
a charming person display such extraordinary
taste. In vain he brought his
ingenuous arts to bear upon her, and
forced her to look round while he shot
languishing glances full into her eyes.
The glances failed to arouse any response
; she gave him politely but
plainly to understand that his interruptions
were unwelcome, answered him
with a few monosyllables or a faint
smile, and immediately turned away to
resume her remarks to Lord Staines,
who was evidently much tickled by the
discomfiture of his heir-apparent.

Jim all this time was very pleasantly
engaged in talking over bygone days

with Lady Mildred, only every now
and again his eyes wandered to Hilda
and rested upon her with a ridiculous
look of pride and affection. Doubtless
he was thinking how good it was of her
to take so much trouble to amuse the
old gentleman at the head of the table.
As for the Reverend Simeon and myself,
we ate our dinner, which was an
excellent one, and nobody took the
smallest notice of us.

Later in the evening, when we assembled
in the drawing: - room, Lord
Staines became grave and silent once
more, black Care having, I presume, recalled
herself to his memory. Very
soon he murmured some excuse and
slipped away — perhaps to try and establish
a balance between revenue and

expenditure in his study. Lady Mildred
had some photographs to show to Jim,
who may or may not have been as interested
in them as he professed to be ;
Mr. Turner, for lack of a more worthy
listener, was fain to favour me with his
views upon the subject of secular education
; and while he was expounding
these at some length, I saw exactly
what I had expected to see. Bracknell
seated himself upon a sofa beside Hilda,
who put up her fan and received him
with a side glance which was half supercilious,
half encouraging. He began to
address her in a low tone of remonstrance.
Presumably he was begging
to be informed why she had treated him
with such marked coolness, for presently
I heard her reply, laughing slightly, " I

wouldn't press that point if I were you,
Lord Bracknell. If you do, perhaps I
may ask for your version of certain
stories that I heard about you in
London."

What stories ? " he returned eagerly.
*' Depend upon it, there wasn't a word
of truth in them. Surely you don't
believe all you are told ? " And so
forth, and so forth.

The remainder of the colloquy was
carried on in such subdued accents that
the eloquence of the Reverend Simeon,
who was standing very close to me and
emphasising his periods by repeated taps
upon my shirt-front with his fore-finger,
drowned it. But, indeed, I was not
curious to hear more. How many times,
I wonder, has that selfsame dialogue been

conducted in identical terms since the
world began, and how many times will
it be repeated before the human race
becomes extinct ? Generally, I think,
about five to ten minutes elapse before
the point is reached when the lady invites
unreserved confession as the preliminary
to possible absolution ; and then
the man tells her — well, I suppose he sometimes
tells her the truth, though I should
imagine that that is a rare case. What
Bracknell said to Hilda, after they had
moved away slowly towards the open
French window, through which they presently
vanished, I have no idea, nor can
it be of the smallest consequence. What
I do know is that they were absent for
the best part of an hour, and that long
before the expiration of that time Jim

had grown fidgety, Lady Mildred was
looking anxious, Mr. Turner had fallen
sound asleep, and this humble chronicler
was well-nigh worn out with desperate
efforts to sustain a conversation which
flickered and died the moment that it
was left alone.

At length Lord Staines returned. He
had been making hay with his hair, from
which I concluded that he had failed
to discover any arithmetical process by
which the greater can be subtracted from
the less ; and unless I greatly misjudged
him, his inward ejaculation on seeing us
was, '* What ! not gone yet ! " But he
was far too polite to utter any words to
that effect, and he discoursed amiably
until Bracknell and Hilda re-appeared,
which they did without the least symptom

of embarrassment on either side. Then
old Turner woke up suddenly, rubbed
his hands and said that they had had
a delightful evening, but that they really
mustn't keep the carriage waiting any
longer ; whereupon we all wished one
another good-night with much alacrity,
and the party broke up.

Jim's dog-cart was at the door, and
he had promised to give me a lift
home; but as I was putting on my
overcoat in the hall, he followed me
and said, '' Do you mind waiting a
quarter of an hour, Harry ? I should
like to smoke a cigar with Bracknell
before we go."

Of course I replied that I didn't mind
at all, and accordingly we adjourned to
the smoking-room, whither Lord Staines

did not accompany us. I don't think I
have ever met any one quite so straightforward
as Jim. It never occurred to
him to approach any subject by a little
introductory beating about the bush, as
almost all of us do. If he had anything
to say to you, you might be quite certain
that he would say every word of
it, and lose no time about doing so
either. His cigar was hardly alight
before he had explained matters to Blackwell
in the most unequivocal language.

'* Look here, Bracknell, old chap," said
he, "I don't want you to flirt with
Hilda Turner. We are all friends here,
so I don't mind telling you that I mean
to ask her to be my wife, though I'd
rather you didn't speak about it to anyone
else just yet."

Something in this announcement
seemed to tickle Bracknell amazingly ;
for his mirth was so immoderate and
so prolonged that Jim felt constrained
at last to add : " It isn't a joke."

'' Oh yes, it is, my dear boy," returned
the other, still laughing. 'rit's a first-rate
joke, if you could only see it. Be
advised by me, Jim, and drop that
young woman like a hot potato. She's
not the wife for you."

That's as may be," rejoined Jim
quietly ; '' but at all events she is not
the wife for you."

'' I should rather think she wasn't !
The wife for me is a lady with 50,000/.
of her own. Of course it would be desirable
that she should have more, but
50,000/. is the irreducible minimum ; the

governor has just been telling me so.
By the way, do you think the fair Gildas
going to accept you ? "

Jim, with a becoming blush, admitted
that he was sanguine.

*' Well, she 77tay, Five thousand a year
Is not to be sneezed at in these hard
times ; and I suppose you've worth all
that, aren't you } "

Jim got up and leant with his back
against the mantelpiece. '' Do you know,
Bracknell," said he, '' I don't like that
way of talking. I am sure you have
no intention of hurting my feelings, but,
you see. It Isn't pleasant to me to hear
Hilda spoken of "

As if she resembled other women.
All right, Jim ; I'll spare your feelings
for the future, and I don't think I'll

marry Miss Turner, thank you. I suppose
I may sometimes speak to her,
though ? "

"• Of course you may," replied Jim
quite gravely. ** If you tell me that you
won't flirt with her, that's all I want.
Only, don't you see what I mean ? If
you began to pay attention to Hilda, or
to any other woman, what possible chance
could I have '^. It stands to reason that
I should have none. I'm neither good-looking
nor clever, nor — nor anything.
Why, I wouldn't even venture to pit
myself against Harry Maynard ! "

And with this homage to his friend's
irresistible attractions and incidental acknowledgment
of my own, Jim resumed
his seat.

Bracknell was a little flattered, I think.

and perhaps also (though I am not quite
so sure about that) a Httle touched. '' Goon
and prosper," said he. '' Marriage is
the greatest mistake in the world ; but
if you will marry, you will. Let me
know when the event comes off, and
I'll be your best man."

It is not always easy to tell how far
the sense of duty and honour possessed
by men like Bracknell may be relied
upon. Doubtless there are certain offences
against their fellow-men which
they would under no circumstances commit
; but as for the rest, I should imagine
that it was very much a question of
temptation. Truth compels me to admit
that the temptations with which Hilda
assailed the heir of Staines Court during
the next few weeks were of a nature to

try the stoutest powers of resistance. I
don't say that her tactics were novel ;
but I do say that anything more clever
than her employment of them I never
saw. Of course " the young people," as
we were generally termed by our elders,
were continually together. There were
rides, there were picnics, there was
lawn-tennis — in short, all the ordinary
amusements of country-house life in the
summer-time ; and to watch Hilda and
Bracknell together on those occasions
would have been most entertaining if
It had not been also a little distressing.
She stirred his curiosity ; she roused In
him a spirit of emulation ; she flattered
his vanity one day only to wound it the
next. Sometimes she ignored him as
obstinately as she had done the first

evening ; and every now and again,
when Jim's back was turned, she would
favour him with a look which I am
quite sure must have sent a thrill through
his whole person, though he had the
credit of being accustomed to such looks.
All this time she was charming in her
demeanour to poor old Jim, with whom,
however, she now avoided taking solitary
walks ; and the upshot of it was that,
before a fortnight had passed, she had
two sighing lovers at her feet instead of
one. That may not have been a very
wonderful exploit to accomplish, nevertheless
it was accomplished with very
great skill.

How matters must end was obvious
enough ; yet when the catastrophe (for
I suppose it must be called a catastrophe)

VOL. I. E

came, I confess I was slightly startled.
It was Mr. Turner who apprised me of
it. Strolling out in the direction of
Staines Court one hot morning, I came
upon him just as he was hurrying through
the gates, and he at once pulled up,
took off his hat and began to mop his
forehead. Evidently he was a prey to
conflicting emotions ; and indeed his first
words were a confession that such was
the case.

''My dear Harry," said he, "I am
upset — completely upset. Tell me now
for you have an old head upon young
shoulders — did it ever strike you that
there was anything between my daughter
and Lord Bracknell ? "

I replied that that Idea had suggested
Itself to me.

"You don't say so!" exclaimed Mr.
Turner. *' Dear me ! Well, I assure you
that I never was more taken aback in
my life than when Lord Bracknell came
to me last niorht to tell me that he had
proposed to Hilda and had been accepted.
Ah, I see that you are astonished. The
fact is that I had formed other — ahem !
anticipations. Possibly you may have
shared those anticipations '^. "

I signified assent, and he went on :
To tell you the truth, Harry, I should
have been better pleased if things had
fallen out otherwise. Even now I am
not sure — However, we shall see. I have
just received a note from Lord Staines,
requesting me to call upon him immediately,
and I greatly fear that he will not
be favourable to the engagement. You

E 2

are very observant, I know : have you
noticed any signs of his being disposed
to — er — welcome dear Hilda as his
daughter-in-law ? "

I was quite unable to say that I had,
and I really felt very sorry for the poor
man, who seemed, through no fault of
his own, to have got between the upper
and the nether millstones. Nothing was
more certain than that he was about to
get Into serious trouble with the patron
of his living, and it might be safely predicted
that, when he returned home, he
would get into trouble not less serious
with the controller of his household and
his actions. I quite understood why he
begged me not to mention this to anybody,
and also who was meant by that
emphatic " anybody : " for a squire in

the hand Is worth two viscounts in the
bush. I willingly gave him the required
assurance, and he hastened away towards
the house, fanning himself with his pocket-handkerchief
as he went.

Lord Staines was a weak man, and,
like most weak men, was exceedingly
peremptory when roused to anger. It
was certainly not poor Mr. Turner's fault
that Bracknell had been brought within
an ace of making an egregious ass of
himself; for, as everybody knew, Mr.
Turner had no more control over his
daughter than he had over the Empress
of China. Still, those who are invested
with nominal authority should expect to
be held responsible when disasters occur ;

and a sad pity It Is that this excellent
rule Is not more frequently made to
apply to certain high functionaries whom
one miorht name. Lord Staines, havlnof
got hold of Hilda's ostensible superior,
led the unhappy man Into his study, and
then and there Q^ave him a tremendous
wigging. I made a point of calling upon
the Reverend Simeon In the course of
the afternoon, and found him quite shattered.
Never in his life before, he said
piteously, had such language been used
to him, and although It Alas his duty asa
Christian to forgive Lord Staines's
words, he feared that it would be long
before he would be able to forget them.
As for Bracknell, he was packed off by
the first train, with a flea in his ear,
and, I dare say, a cheque in his pocket.

He wrote a letter to Hilda, in which as
I understood, he represented himself to
be broken-hearted, but powerless. His
father wouldn't hear of the engagement,
and, since he was entirely dependent
upon his father, there was no more to
be said. Upon reflection, I feel quite
sure that he must have received a
cheque. Lord Staines possessed a fine
old-fashioned temper, but he worshipped
his son, whose will was a great deal
stronger than his own, and if Bracknell
had really been determined upon marrying
the cook, I doubt not but that he
would have snapped his fingers in his
father's face and married her. Such may
not improbably have been also the
opinion of the fair Hilda, whose wrath
at finding herself thus coolly left in the

lurch was, as I gathered from her father,
very great.

Her disappointment might have been
easier to bear, and the whole affair
might have blown over quietly, if only
Lord Staines had had the sense to hold
his tongue about it. But I suppose he
was flushed with victory and couldn't hold
his tongue. First he told Lady Mildred,
which was perhaps unavoidable ; later in
the d^, by which time he had fully
recovered his good humour, he marched
down to see my mother, and boasted a
little of the facility which which he had
nipped this folly and nonsense in the
bud.

"■ Rely upon it, my dear Mrs. Maynard,"
said he, '' there is nothing like
promptitude and decision in these cases.

People tell me that I have over-indulged
Bracknell, and possibly I have ; but I
believe he understands pretty well that
there are certain limits which he had
better not transgress. I can't afford to
have a pauper daughter-in-law, and
there's an end of it."

My mother said it was all very
worldly and shocking, and that if Lord
Staines had nothing worse than lack of
fortune to urge against Hilda, he ought
to be ashamed of himself. However, he
was not at all ashamed of himself, and I
take it that he must have gone about
freely extolling the virtue of promptitude
and decision, for in a few days the
whole neighbourhood was in possession
of the facts, together with such emendations
and additions as individual taste

had grafted on to them in the process
of transmission.

Among the first to be Informed of
what had occurred was Jim, who rode
over to our house In a great state of
heat to ask me whether I had heard
what he was pleased to call " an infernal
lying report." When I was obliged to
tell him that the report alluded to, however
infernal It might be, was substantially
correct, I really thought for a
moment that he was oolncr to hit me
between the eyes. But he renounced
that intention. If he had ever entertained
it, and only dropped Into a chair, with a
look of pain and reproach on his face
which hurt me almost as much as if I
had deserved it.

'rand you knew that Bracknell was

humbugging me all this time ? " he exclaimed.


I had not said so, but the fact was
undeniable. I fancy that, upon the first
blush of the thing, he was more grieved
by Bracknell's treachery than by Hilda's
inconstancy, and I could not get him to
pay much attention to the excuses which
I made both for the culprit and for
myself; though I venture to think that
these were neither intrinsically poor nor
badly put. But when in the plenitude
of my generosity I began to make
excuses for Hilda too, he stopped meat
once.

'* That's enough, Harry," he interrupted.
*' You mean well ; but you don't
seem to see that apologising on Hilda's
behalf is implying that she is to blame.

I can't admit that for an instant. She
never gave me anything in the shape of
a promise ; and if I chose to imagine
that she cared for me, the more fool I."

** Well, perhaps so," I agreed. '' Anyhow,
it's very evident that she did riot
care for you."

'' Yes," he replied sighing ; " that's
evident, I suppose. And yet I can't
help thinking that she might have cared
for me if Bracknell hadn't come down.
But there's no good in talking about
that now. I shall be oft somewhere
for the next few months, I think. You
couldn't be persuaded to come with me
to Switzerland, and perhaps spend the
winter in Italy, could you?"

I reminded him that I was not a
man of independent fortune, and that

my winter would have to be spent in the
less agreeable atmosphere of Lincoln's
Inn, where I had already taken chambers
; but I strongly advised him to go
away and travel. He had so many friends
that he was not likely to be left long
without a companion. I fear that he did
not find me very sympathetic ; and in
truth it was all I could do to restrain
myself from openly congratulating him
upon his escape.

Presently he said that if my mother
was well enough to receive him, he
would just go and say good morning to
her, and I knew better than to accompany
him to her room. From that
quarter those who were afflicted in mind,
body, or estate, could always count upon
obtaining sympathy, if not comfort ; and

sure enough, when Jim emerged, after
an interview of half an hour, he looked
so much less inclined to hang himself
that I was afraid my mother had committed
the imprudence of advising him
to try again. But that, it appeared, was
a groundless alarm.

*' Oh, no," he said quietly, in answer
to my inquiry, '^ she didn't give me any
hope. She was awfully kind though,
and I believe it's quite true that I shall
get over this some day. Only I wish
Bracknell had been a little more straight
about it."

Well, upon the whole, that seemed to
be a very proper spirit in which to
meet adversity, and I accompanied my
friend down stairs, hoping that, after
all, he might not be quite as hard hit

as I had supposed. But when we
reached the front-door, whom should we
find talking affably to the groom and
caressing Jim's horse, but Miss Hilda
Turner in person !

Jim started violently, while I, for my
part, inwardly commended her to the
devil ; for I could not doubt her purpose
in waiting outside in that unseemly way.

'* Why did you not come in ? " I asked
with a touch of asperity. *' I presume
you called to see my mother, didn't
you ? "

I did," she replied calmly, and never
so much as changed colour ; *' but when
I saw Jim's horse at the door, I thought
I would wait for him and call on Mrs.
Maynard some other day. I know it
tires her to have more than one visitor

at a time. Jim, if you have nothing
better to do, you might walk home
with me."

*' Good Heavens ! " thought I to myself,
'' is she going to propose to him .'^ "
I took the liberty of raising my eyebrows
ostentatiously, but I doubt whether
any evolutions which I could have induced
my eyebrows to perform would
have disturbed her equanimity. She met
my gaze with perfect composure, and it
was I, not she, who eventually had to
look the other way.

The countenance of that foolish Jim
expressed mingled surprise, pleasure, and
doubt. What was the good of my giving
him a surreptitious dig in the back and
making grimaces at him when he turned
round ? Hilda had but to beckon to

VOL. I. F

him and he would have gone with her
to the world's end. He went with her
unhesitatingly to the end of our short
avenue, leading his horse ; and there
they were lost to my gaze. But it was
not necessary to be gifted with second
sight in order to feel tolerably sure of
• what was taking place between them
after they had vanished ; and I returned
to the study of the law with misgivings
which were only too soon to be justified.
An hour or so later, while I was immersed
in pleadings, and was cumbering
my brain with the absurd jargon of
replications, rejoinders, surrejoinders, rebutters,
and the like, I heard somebody
ride full gallop up to the house,
immediately after which my door was
burst open, as by a charge of dynamite,

and Jim, victorious and triumphant, stood
before me once more. One glance at
his face was sufficient to show me that
it was all up with him.

*you needn't go into ecstasies," I
said snappishly ; '' I know all about it."

Now, my dear Harry," he remonstrated,
" how can you possibly know
all about it?"

'eat least," said I, '* I know that you
are engaged to Hilda Turner."

He gave me to understand in reply
that such was indeed his good fortune.
'* And do you know," he continued, '' the
truth is — it's so glorious that I can
hardly believe it, and yet I feel somehow
as if I had always been sure of it
■ — the truth is that she has loved me
all along!"

F 2

Then'* I could not help remarking,
*she took the very oddest way
of showing her affection that ever I
heard of."

Jim said, *^ Not at all odd ; the same
kind of thing has often happened before,
as everybody knows. It all arose out of
my stupid bashfulness. She naturally
thought that I couldn't care much about
her, since I wouldn't speak out ; and so
when Bracknell made his offer she accepted
him. She says she would have
accepted anybody under the circumstances
— and I can quite understand it."

Obviously reasoning would be thrown
away upon such a lunatic ; nevertheless,
to set myself straight with my conscience,
I endeavoured to reason with
him.

"It appears, then," said I, 'that she
sought you out in order to avow her
love. If she was not too proud to do
that to-day, why in the world couldn't
she have done it a few weeks ago ? "

"Good Lord!" ejaculated Jim, "what
a low opinion you have of your fellow
creatures ! Sought me out indeed ! Why,
my dear fellow, you wouldn't believe
what trouble I had to extort the truth
from her. What she sought me out for
not that she did seek me out — was to
beg me to try and make peace between
her father and old Staines. That, of
course, led us to speak about Bracknell,
and then I couldn't help telling her how
long I had loved her, and then at last
she admitted that she had only promised
to marry him out of pique. But

she was very unwilling to accept me, I
can tell you. Harry, old chap, you don't
know Hilda ; she's the sweetest girl in
England ! "

If she was, I certainly did not know
her ; but to make such a rejoinder as
that would only have been to expose
myself to a surrejoinder which it would
have been altogether futile to attempt to
rebut ; so I said what was expected of
me with as good a grace as I could
command, and as soon as Jim was gone
I kicked those odious law books to the
other end of the room, in token alike
of my abhorrence for them individually,
and of my disgust with a state
of things which I was powerless to
remedy.

It has ever been my wish to look with
an Impartial eye alike upon the just and
upon the unjust. Being, I hope, to some
extent conscious of my own small failings
and very desirous that full credit
should be allowed to me for my virtues,
it is but fair that I should acknowledge
the virtues of those whom I dislike, if
by diligent searching I can discover that
they possess any. And so I am really
glad to be able to say for Hilda Turner
that I believe she was as fond of Jim

as it was in her nature to be of anybody.
This concession may the more
readily be made because, to tell the
truth, it does not amount to much when
looked into. Other things being equal,
she would, I take it, have preferred Jim
to Bracknell ; but other things were not
equal, because Bracknell was a viscount,
who would some day be an earl, whereas
Jim would assuredly never be anything
but a moderately well-to-do country squire.
Still I am bound to confess that when
her first string broke she took up her
second with a very good grace. Whether,
as I suspected at the time, she precipitated
her engagement by way of conveying
a slap in the face to the too
dutiful Bracknell, or whether she had
got wind of Jim's proposed exodus and

feared to lose him altogether by delay,
certain it is that she bore herself with
dignity and general amiability in a
situation which must have been somewhat
embarrassing, and also that she
made Jim supremely happy. More than
that could not reasonably have been
required of her.

The young couple where, to all appearance,
thoroughly satisfied with one
another, and their satisfaction was very
commonly, if not quite universally, shared
by their friends and relatives. Old
Turner rubbed his plump white hands,
and declared that the wish of his heart
was now fulfilled ; Lord Staines was so
delighted that he could not rest until
he had walked over to the Rectory and
announced his delight ; and my mother,

though secretly a little disappointed (for
Jim was a great favourite of hers), did
not hesitate to aver that all was for the
best. It is true that she would have
said and thought the selfsame thing if
she had just heard me sentenced to be
hanged by the neck until I was dead
such being her simple creed. Taking
her stand upon certain passages of
Scripture, she boldly asserted that it was
not for us to judge whether this or that
event would be productive of ultimate
good or not, and, in short, adopted
without reservation the doctrine that
whatever is is right.

To fall in with my dear mother's
views in this respect has never been
possible to me, and amid the general
chorus of approval I found some comfort

in listening to a dissentient voice
which harmonised with my own. It was
a very quiet Httle voice, but it was a
sweet one, and was seldom used to
utter disparaging remarks about anybody.
Since you ask me," Lady Mildred said,
I am not glad, I am sorry. It seems
to me that Hilda is not stood enough
for Mr. Leigh."

** That," I observed, *' is beyond all
question."

'eyes ; and I don't understand her
changing her mind so quickly. Of
course it was impossible that Bracknell
should marry her ; but if it had been
possible they might have got on together
well enough, perhaps. I am fonder of
Bracknell than of anybody else in the
world, and I don't know that she is

exactly good enough for him either. But
he is different from Mr. Leigh. I mean
that if he had found out afterwards that
Hilda was not quite — quite what he had
fancied her, I don't think he would have
taken it so much to heart."

These were precisely my sentiments ;
but as no one had the remotest intention
of consulting either me or Lady Mildred,
we could not do better than keep them
to ourselves ; and we kept them to
ourselves accordingly.

Of Bracknell I heard nothing, nor, I
suppose, did Jim receive congratulations
from that quarter, although I did not
like to ask him the question. No doubt
he had forgiven his old friend, as he
could well afford to do, being more or
less in the position of a conqueror. His

marriage was appointed to take place in
the ensuing month of January, and soon
after hearlnof of this arrangement I left
home to be formally called to the bar
and to take possession of the chambers,
where I am thankful to say that my
legal library has remained consulted
from that day to this. For then It
was that I received my first substantial
encouragement to persevere with those
literary labours which have since made
life pleasant to me, and have even enabled
me to afford an occasional pat of butter
with my bread.

During the autumn and early winter,
my mother, who writes the most delightful
letters that ever were penned by
mortal hand, kept me fully Informed of
all that was going on down at Cranfield ;

and by her account all was going on
quite as it ought. Jim, assisted by the
counsels of the bride-elect, was refurnishing
Elmhurst from attic to basement ;
his uncle and aunt, a very uninteresting
old couple, whom nobody ever saw, and
whom nobody but my mother would have
dreamt of regretting, had already taken
their departure for Bath, where they
proposed to reside in future ; " and dear
Mildred," my mother added, " is behaving
so sweetly about it all. She seems
quite to share Jim's happiness, and some
day, I hope, she herself will be as happy
as she deserves to be." I confess that
the significance of the above encomium
escaped me at the time ; although I
certainly might have perceived it if I
had not been a little dense.

A few days before Christmas I seated
myself in the down express from haddington,
being bound for Cranfield, with
the twofold object of spending that festive
season at home and assisting at Jim's
subsequent nuptials. Just as the train
was starting a young man of fashionable
exterior jumped into the carriage, tumbled
over my legs, apologised, and then
said, " Oh, it's you, Maynard, is it ?
Going down to the old shop ? "

I replied that such was my destination,
but that I presumed It wasn't his — not
that I really presumed anything of the
kind, but because I thought that, taking
everything into consideration, Bracknell
would have shown better taste by remaining
absent from the paternal abode
at that particular juncture.

Oh, yes, I'm going to Staines Court,"
he returned. " Why shouldn't I ? "

"• If you don't know, I'm sure I don't,"
I answered.

'' My dear fellow," said Bracknell,
lighting a cigar, '' if you were to be
bound to avoid every woman with whom
you had ever been in love, your life
would be a perpetual game of hide-and-seek.
In fact, the thing really couldn't
be done. How is that dear old duffer
Jim getting on ? Lord ! what an
existence he has before him ! It was
a bad day for him when the governor
refused to let me take Miss Hilda off
his hands. That girl will end by
breaking his heart, you'll see."

She does not," I observed, *' appear
to have broken yours."

Bracknell smiled, but it struck me that
he also winced ever so slightly. 'women
are all the same," said he ; "a man who
allowed one of them to break his heart
would be a great fool. Jim is a great fool."

** If being too chivalrous for the world
that we live in is being a fool, he
certainly is one," I agreed ; and I hardly
know what prompted me to add, " I
hope you will always be as loyal to him
as he is to you, Bracknell."

It was rather a silly speech to make,
and perhaps also rather an impertinent
one, but Bracknell did not appear to
resent it. He stared for a moment, and
then said, " I suppose he didn't like my
cutting him out, eh ? It was rough upon
him, I admit ; but how the deuce was
I to help it ? "

VOL. I. G

Being unable to make any concise
reply to that question, I only answered,
** Well, it is all over now, and the less
said about it the better."

So, by way of changing the subject,
my companion began to entertain me with
an account of a steeplechase in which he
had recently taken part, and this, with
occasional breaks, lasted us to our
journey's end.

I should have liked to witness the
meeting between Bracknell and Hilda,
but that pleasure was denied me. On
Christmas Day I dined at Staines Court,
my mother, who was unable to leave her
room, insisting upon my accepting the
invitation which had been sent to me to
join the party assembled there. The
house was full of Henleyss and Beauchamps,

relations of Lord Staines's, who
were unknown to me ; but the very first
thing that I saw on entering the drawing-room
was a Httle group, composed of
Hilda, Lady Mildred, Bracknell, and Jim.
They were conversing together in the
most friendly manner, and had evidently
made up their minds to let bygones be
bygones. Jim beckoned to me, and very
soon drew me aside to whisper, ** Isn't
Bracknell a good fellow ? I don't believe
there's another man in England
who would have taken things as he has
done and come down here just to show
us that he bears no malice ! "

It might be that Bracknell had come
to Staines Court for that amiable purpose,
but I had some difficulty in supposing
it. In the first place, he can hardly

G 2

have thought that any one would suspect
him of bearing mace, and in the second,
he might so easily have written a letter
calculated to allay such apprehensions.
There, however, he was, chatting to
Hilda as unconcernedly as ever ; and
even if he was bent upon mischief —
which, after all, did not seem very likely
it was certain that Jim would never
believe it of him.

Miss Turner was not suffered to
retain possession of him long. I think
I have already mentioned that Bracknell
was one of those happy (one must
presume that they are happy) men
whom frisky young matrons delight to
honour. There were several ladies
among the company who answered to
that description, and they skirmished

over him In a manner diverting to
behold, and flattering, no doubt, to the
subject of their strife. Between them
they bore him away, a not unwilling
victim, and until the evening was far
advanced we country neighbours could
only admire him from afar. Lord
Staines, twirling his grey moustache,
watched his son's triumph with a benign
smile. Probably he had no objection to
Bracknell's flirting with any number of
ladies, so long as they were not unmarried
and penniless. He himself was
looking younger and more cheerful than
he had done in the summer, having, as
I learnt in the course of a brief interview
with Lady Mildred, landed a handsome
sum over the Cesarewitch.

At a late hour somebody — I suppose

it must have been Bracknell — suggested
a game of pool. About ten of us, including
two or three ladles, adjourned
to the billiard-room, and then it was
that I was able to take a few mental
notes of Hilda's demeanour towards her
former lover. Her position was not a
very comfortable one ; because everybody
in the room knew that she had
consented to marry Bracknell only a
few months before, and she must have
known quite well that they knew it.
Her serenity, however, was not ruffled,
nor did she fall into any of the mistakes
which she might so easily have made,
and which a woman of more feeling
could hardly have avoided making.
She neither shunned Bracknell nor
thrust herself upon his notice ; she was

neither over-friendly with him nor the
reverse. When he spoke to her she
answered him civilly, and once or twice
she even addressed him first, but indeed
she was in an unusually quiet mood and
spoke very little to anybody. If there
was a criticism to be made upon her, it
might have been that she was just a
trifle too affectionate with Jim, whispering
a word or two in his ear occasionally,
as she passed round the table, and
glancing quickly at him for applause
whenever she had achieved a brilliant
stroke.

After the game had been going on
for some little time Bracknell came and
threw himself down on the sofa beside
me. '' By George ! " he exclaimed, in
an undertone which had a fine of

vexation in it, *' that girl has no more
heart than a stone ! "

"That," replied I, 'ris no news to me
and no business of yours."

And to think," he went on, without
heeding my remark, ** that she has spent
the whole of her life in a country parsonage
! So much for rural simplicity !
Why, there isn't one of these Belgravian
women who could hold a candle to
her for coolness ! "

I don't know what he had expected
her to say or do ; but he was evidently
annoyed, and added that he wouldn't be
in Jim's shoes for a trifle. He was
obliging me with his views upon
feminine nature in general, which, I am
sorry to say, were too disrespectful and
too crudely expressed to bear repetition,

when somebody called out to him that
it was his turn to play.

He had a honos and rather difficult
shot to make, and at the instant when
he was drawing back his cue Hilda all
of a sudden stepped close behind him,
so that he struck her sharply in the
side with the butt end of it. She gave
a little cry and fell back upon the sofa
where I was sitting. Bracknell, full of
apologies and alarm, dropped his cue
and peered anxiously at the blanched
cheeks of the sufferer ; Jim came tearing
up from the other end of the room ;
somebody ran for a glass of water ; the
rest of the players crowded round the
sofa, and we had quite a little scene.
At length Hilda got back her breath,
and, smiling faintly, assured us that she
was not really hurt.

** It is nothing — nothing at all," she
said. " It was my own fault entirely,
and I shall be all right in a few minutes.
Please go on with the game and don't
look at me."

To this day I can't feel sure that she
did it on purpose. If she did, I am
glad to think that she received a considerably
smarter dig in the ribs than
she had bargained for. In any case,
this trifling incident had the effect of
producing a complete alteration in
Bracknell's humour. He was naturally
concerned at having hurt a lady, and
it may be that his self-reproach was
increased by the recollection that he
had been saying hard things of her the
minute before. He remained sitting
beside her after she had gently pushed
Jim away, and the others, at her request,

had resumed their game, and I saw
that a rapid interchange of words took
place between them. Their colloquy
was soon Interrupted ; but it had lasted
long enough to bring a slightly increased
colour into Bracknell's cheeks and a
pensive look into his eyes. Knowing
what I did of Miss Hilda, I was convinced
that she must either wish to
subjugate him once more or to avenge
herself upon him ; and, all things considered,
there seemed to be a very fair
chance of her succeeding In her aim,
whatever that might be.

When I said as much to my mother
on the following morning, after giving
her the full account which she always
likes to have of what had taken place
at the dinner-party and after it, she

shook her head. '* Ah, my dear Harry,"
she sighed, " you are too ready to seek
for bad motives and study bad people —
that is, if poor Hilda is really bad. If
I were you, I should find it much more
interesting to study Mildred. Is she too
good to be attractive ? "

Are you suggesting that I should
fall in love with Lady Mildred?" I
inquired.

My dear boy, no ! What would Lord
Staines say ? Besides, I am afraid you
would be a day too late. Have you
really not discovered Mildred's secret,
Harry ? — you, who are so quick-sighted ! "

We all have our weaknesses ; and
amongst the many to which I should
have to plead guilty, if placed upon my
oath, is that of fancying that I can read

the hearts and minds of my neighbours
with some facility. Now, in truth it
had not occurred to me until then that
Lady Mildred had lost her heart to Jim,
but as I could not bear to admit my
stupidity, I made no direct reply, merely
observing that there was a difference
between what was attractive and what
was interesting to study, and that bad
people were more interesting to study
than good ones because, as a rule,
their motives of action were more
obscure.

I suppose so," agreed my mother
absently. " Poor Jim !"

Really," said I (because I was provoked
with her for having seen what I
had failed to detect), ''I do not understand
why you should pity him. Allis

for the best in the best of possible
worlds, you know."

** I believe that all is ordered for our
good," she answered simply ; "■ though I
fear that you do not. We must not
presume to say that it would have been
better for our friend to marry Mildred
than Hilda, who, after all, has a great
deal that is nice about her. Poor Jim ! "

My dear mother permits herself a
touch of dry humour at times which, I
think, refreshes her. She glanced up at
me half deprecatingly after this last
ejaculation, and we had a little laugh
together. I suppose she perceived as
plainly as I did that there was trouble
coming, but she did not choose to talk
about it before it came, and probably
she was quite right.

I AM but a poor equestrian and can only
speak upon such subjects with the diffidence
which beseems me, but I have
always understood from those who ought
to know that the hunting in our parts
is of an inferior order. The covert-shooting,
on the other hand, is fairly
good, and that belonging to the Staines
Court property may almost be called
famous. Now Lord Staines had left his
coverts untouched until Christmas, being,
as I verily believe, instigated to this act

of self-denial by a desire to please his
heir, who at that time was one of the
best shots in England. Great, therefore,
must have been his surprise, and great
also his disappointment on finding that
Bracknell preferred to follow the hounds
during his stay, and that he could not
even be persuaded to take his gun out
of its case on non-hunting days.

It seems to me," the poor old gentleman
declared in my hearing, 'that he
must have taken leave of his senses. I
really can't account for his behaviour in
any other way."

I could have accounted for it ; though
I am not prepared to say that my explanation
excluded the hypothesis of insanity.
I could have told Lord Staines
that, indifferent as the hunting was, there

was a certain country gentleman in the
neighbourhood who was devoted to it,
heart and soul ; that this gentleman had
recently presented a well-broken saddle-horse
to his betrothed ; and further, that
when Bracknell was not out hunting: with
the couple aforesaid he was amusing himself
in some other and perhaps less innocent
fashion in the company of one of
them. But I did not tell him this, partly
because I was not asked, and partly because
I am constitutionally averse to
being blown up sky-high. I will do myself
the justice to say that I would have
risked a good deal of personal discomfort
to get Bracknell dismissed a second time
from the neighbourhood ; but I was well
aware that nothing short of ocular proof
would have made Lord Staines believe

VOL. I. H

his son capable of behaviour unworthy
of a gentleman. To make love to your
friend's france under your friend's nose
must undoubtedly be described in that
disagreeable way ; and I hardly think that
the circumstance of the lady in question
being an unscrupulous minx can be
admitted as an extenuating one.

If any palliation of Bracknell's conduct
had been discoverable, I suppose one
would have had to look for it in the tone
of the society which he was accustomed
to frequent. In certain sets it seems to
be almost imperative upon a man that he
should make love to somebody, provided
always that she be not a person whom
he can marry. Bracknell may have
opined that Miss Turner was as good as
married already, and that she was consequently

a safe and fit subject for his
attentions. For the rest, she gave him
every encouragement. I used to meet
them riding home from hunting together
at a suspiciously early hour of the day ;
Bracknell was for ever dropping in to
luncheon or tea at the Rectory ; and Jim
had no words to express his satisfaction
at the good feeling which subsisted between
his friend and his future wife. He
confided to me that he had hardly ventured
to hope for such a happy state of
things.

When the hunting was abruptly put a
stop to by a sharp frost, which In a few
days rendered the ice on the great lake
at Staines Court thick enough to bear,
this estimable pair had further opportunities
of showing how well disposed

H 2

they were towards one another, Blackwell
excelled in skating, as indeed he did
in all sports and pastimes of an athletic
nature ; and in Hilda he found an apt
pupil. Jim, who was by no means such
a proficient, would listen respectfully to
Bracknell's instructions, and when the
couple skimmed away from him, as they
often did, would watch them from afar,
with pride and admiration in his eyes.
They were the two people whom he loved
best in the world, and I believe it gave
him far more pleasure to contemplate their
achievements than it would have done to
obtain any kind of personal distinction.

For reasons of my own, I usually
prefer to shun the giddy throng when on
skates. One afternoon I had found a nice
sequestered spot, screened from view by

an island, and was very busy practising
a graceful piece of figure-skating (outside
edge forwards, inside edge backwards, and
then down with a thump) when Bracknell
and Hilda suddenly shot out from behind
the clump of evergreen shrubs which
had masked my movements. They swept
past me, hand in hand, and in that still
atmosphere a few words fell clear and
distinct upon my ear. " Oh, what a
bore ! Can't we get rid of him somehow
?" And then a low laus^h from Hilda
and a reply which distance rendered
unintelligible to me.

An instant later came the sound of
short, scuffling strokes, denoting the approach
of an unskilful skater, and Jim's
colossal form loomed into view. " Hi !
you two," I heard him shout, '' wait forme

! " And away he went, full tilt, round
the miniature cape which Bracknell and
Hilda had already doubled.

I hardly knew why this brief dissolving
view should have set my blood boiling
with indignation, for I really had not been
in need of any further evidence that poor
Jim was being made a fool of; but so it
was. '' Oh, you would like to get rid of
him, would you ? " said I to myself, starting
off in pursuit. '' Then, my good
friends, you shan't get rid of him, nor of
me either."

However, I was prevented from carrying
out my benevolent intentions ; for
I had not got well under way before
I encountered Jim, returning posthaste.


'' Where are you off to in such a

hurry ? " I asked, holding up my hand to
stop him.

He checked his career with some difficulty,
describing an immense semicircle
in order to bring up alongside of me.
Hilda wants her jacket," he explained
breathlessly; "she has left it up at the
house."

And she has despatched you a mile
to fetch It ! One would have thought
that she might have sent Bracknell. But
never mind. You go back to her; I'll
get her confounded jacket."

I could not help confounding her jacket,
but I saw that Jim was a little surprised
and displeased at my doing so. " My
dear boy," he said gently, "there's no
occasion for you to give yourself all that
bother. I don't mind going."

Well, then," I returned, provoked beyond
the limits of prudence, *'/ mind
your going. Heavens and earth ! man, do
you imagine that it is because she is
afraid of catching cold that Hilda orders
you off on an errand which will take you
a good three quarters of an hour to accomplish
? Do you suppose, by any
chance, that Bracknell has stayed down
here all this time because he enjoys third-class
hunting, or because he thinks skating
on a pond better fun than disporting
himself in London ? It is not permissible
to be so stupid ! "

Jim's face became very grave. '' Blackwell
is staying here to be present at our
wedding," he replied ; " he has given up
a lot of other engagements rather than
disappoint us. As for Hilda, I may tell

you that she wouldn't have let me get her
jacket for her if I hadn't insisted upon
it." He added, with something of an
effort : " Harry, we're old friends, and I'd
stand a great deal from you before I'd
quarrel with you; but I'm bound to say
that if you make such an insinuation as
that again, we can't be friends any longer.
I suppose you have got into a habit of
suspecting that every man you meet maybe
a rascal, and now you can't help yourself.
I don't want to preach to you, old
chap, but it's a beastly bad habit to have
o^ot into, and that's the truth."

Such was the reward that I obtained
for my well - meant, but injudicious
meddling. I am sorry to say that I
was foolish enough to feel deeply affronted
by Jim's rebuke, and a coolness arose

between us which might not have been
easily dispelled, had not subsequent
events drawn us together again. It was,
at all events, pretty evident that, so far
as I was concerned, matters must be
allowed to take their course. I could not
open Jim's eyes, and to remonstrate with
Bracknell would have been sheer waste
of breath.

Somebody was found, however, with
sufficient faith in him and in herself to
attempt this useless task. It was some
days after the ice had broken up, and
when we where within a week of Jim's
wedding-day, that demure little Lady Mildred
told me how uneasy the intimacy
of her brother with the bride-elect was
making her. '* I don't mind talking to
you about it," she said, 'because I know

you have seen it all as plainly as I have.
I suppose you blame Bracknell very much,
do you not ? "

*why, of course I do," I replied.

'■' Yes ; but he is not really so bad as
you think — he does not see anything
wrong in it. He only laughed when I
spoke to him, and said I didn't know
what I was talking about. And so it will
go on until something dreadful happens."

My dear Lady Mildred," said I, '' I
don't think anything dreadful will happen.
If I know the charming Hilda at all, she
will always stop a little short of dreadful
things. People who do dreadful things
lose their place in society and have to
put up with all manner of inconveniences.
She will contrive to amuse herself, no
doubt, but so long as her husband shuts

his eyes, and doesn't mind, what can that
matter to anybody ? "

Lady Mildred did not seem pleased with
my philosophy. '' That is as much as
to say that you care very little what
becomes of your friend," she observed.

** Quite so," I returned, keeping my
temper. " When I venture to speak a
word in season to my friend, he flies
at me like a bull-dog, and tells me
to mind my own business ; when I leave
him alone, you reproach me with caring
very little about him. At this rate, a
friend seems likely to prove a troublesome
luxury."

The truth was that I trembled for poor
Jim's future quite as much as Lady Mildred
did, but when things are inevitable
what can a wise man do but make the

best of them ? My confidence in Hilda's
discretion was quite sincere ; and that
only shows how mistaken the wisest of
us may be every now and then. Could I
could anybody — anticipate what the
next move of that remarkable young
woman was going to be ? Anyhow none
of us did anticipate it.

A few days before that on which the
wedding had been appointed to take
place, I was invited to luncheon at the
Rectory, it having been intimated to me
that I should be expected to make myself
useful subsequently in helping to move
furniture and carry out other preparations
for the feast at which Mr. Turner proposed
to entertain his friends after the ceremony.
When I arrived I found Jim and
Mr. Sparks, the curate, seated in the

drawing-room with our host, but Hilda
was conspicuous by her absence. Her
absence had become quite disagreeably
conspicuous when the clock struck half-past
two, by which time we were all
very hungry, besides having reached the
extreme limit of our subjects of conversation.
In the course thereof it had transpired
that Bracknell had come over in
his dog-cart two or three hours before,
and had persuaded Hilda to go out for a
drive with him. " But she assured me,"
said Mr. Turner, fidgeting about uneasily,
'' that she would be back very shortly, and
I am altogether at a loss to account for
this delay."

'* Oh, they'll turn up all right," returned
Jim composedly. '' Bracknell never knows
what time of day it is. I don't think

they deserve that we should wait any
longer for them, though."

Here the curate, a good-natured but
not very intelligent young man, judged it
appropriate to remark, with a loud laugh,
Upon my word, Mr. Leigh, you will have
to look after this young lady. It's early
days for her to begin driving off with a
gay bachelor and finding his company so
agreeable that she forgets to come home
to luncheon."

After this graceful sally on the part of
Sparks, we went into the dining-room and
refreshed ourselves ; but we listened in
vain for the sound of Bracknell's chariot-wheels,
and at length Jim, whose lawyer
was coming down from London to see
him, was compelled to leave us. His
composure remained undisturbed up to

the last ; but as soon as he was gone
Mr. Turner confided to me that he, for
his part, was becoming seriously alarmed.

I would not mention it while James
was here," he said, "but it struck me that
Lord Bracknell was driving a somewhat
restive animal and I cannot help fearing
that some accident has occurred."

If any accident had occurred within ten
miles of us, we should certainly have
heard of it by that time, and so I told
him, but he was not convinced ; and as
the poor old fellow was evidently fretting
himself into a fever, I could but offer to
scour the country in search of the absentees.
Accordingly I set out in one
direction while the good-natured Sparks
trudged away in another ; and a very
disagreeable walk I had of it through

the rain, which began to come down immediately
after I started. None of the people
whom I met had seen Bracknell, upon
whose head I did not invoke a blessing
when I reached home after dark, drenched
to the skin. I was perfectly sure that
neither he nor Hilda had come to any
physical harm ; because persons of that
kind very rarely get their necks broken
(unless it be by the hand of the public
executioner, and that only if they happen
to belong to the lower orders), but I did
think that between them they were carrying
impudence about as far as it could
very well be carried. However, as I did
not at that time foresee that I should
ever write the history of these delinquents,
I ceased to think about them as
soon as I had finished my dinner, and,

VOL. I. I

having made myself comfortable with a
blazing fire and a cigar, set to work upon
an article of which I hoped to have the
skeleton completed before bed-time.

I was getting on quite nicely, and had
scribbled down several epigrammatic sayings
to be scattered carelessly over my
composition and to cheer the persevering
reader on his way through it, when I was
informed that Mr. Turner was down stairs
and wanted to see me 'most particular."
This announcement was speedily followed
by the entrance of Mr. Turner himself
in an indescribable state of agitation.
On seeing his pale face and rumpled
hair, I naturally concluded that I had
done Nemesis an injustice, and exclaimed,
** Has there been an accident then after
all?"

But he spread out his hands with
a gesture of despair and answered,
*' Ah, no ! No accident — no accident !
Design ! " After which he became so
incoherent and unintelligible that I had
to seat him in my arm-chair, and pour
out a stiff brandy and soda for him.
This he swallowed, throwing back his
head and closing his eyes, as if it had
been hemlock ; and when he had drained
the last drop of it, he felt in his
pocket for a note, which he handed
to me.

** Read that, Harry," said he tragically.
** Read it, my dear young friend, and tell
me, if you can, what is to be done ? Because
I am willing to confess to you that
what to do I know not at all."

The note, which I perused with no

I 2

small curiosity and astonishment, ran as

follows :

"Royal Hotel, Buckingham.

Dear Papa, — Lord Bracknell and I
were married before the registrar here
this morning. It is all quite legal and regular,
of course ; but we think we ought
not to' omit the religious ceremony,
although circumstances have prevented
us from going through it in the ordinary
way ; and so we propose to drive over
early tomorrow morning and be married
again quite privately by you. I am sure
you will understand how advisable this
is in order to prevent scandal, and I need
not warn you that not a word must be
said at Staines Court until it is all over
and we have left again. Afterwards you
can break the news to Lord Staines.

Bracknell thinks his father will not have
been made uneasy by his non-appearance,
as he often runs up to London without
mentioning that he is going to do so.
Please tell Sarah that I shall want all
my things packed up, and that she must
begin doing it at once, and sit up all night,
if necessary, as there is no time to lose.
I have engaged another maid to meet us
in London, and shall not take Sarah with
me. Do not distress yourself about this
sudden resolution of ours ; you will see
that all will come right in the end. We
shall be with you soon after nine o'clock
tomorrow morning.

Your affectionate daughter,

Hilda Bracknell."

I can testify that the above is a strictly

literal reproduction, because I wrote it
down word for word immediately after I
had read it, thinking it worthy of remembrance
as a curiosity in the way of
epistolary composition. Never, I imagine,
was a treacherous act avowed with more
cynical effrontery. The writer seemed
to have forgotten altogether that she
had been engaged to be married in the
course of a few days to an honest man
who had the folly to adore her. One
can't think of everything, and I suppose
she was fully absorbed by the important
considerations set forth in her letter.
She was anxious to avoid unnecessary
scandal ; she did not wish to incur the
discomfort of a stormy interview with
Lord Staines ; and she was determined
not to part with her new clothes. If

she had wandered away from these main
points she might perhaps have confused
her father's mind, which, to be sure, was
not a very clear one.

I really could not see my way to offering
that unlucky man much comfort.
"If you wish for my opinion," I replied
when he repeated his demand, " I should
say that you had better read the marriage
service over them and then pack
them off with all despatch. After that,
it will be your pleasing duty to impart
the good news to Lord Staines, keeping
well out of the reach of his arm while
you do so. I don't know that It is any
business of mine ; but in common charity
I will undertake Jim. May Heaven send
us both a good deliverance!"

Mr. Turner sighed piteously, and declared

that this would bring his grey
hairs with sorrow to the grave. I was
really sorry for him ; for in truth his
position was not an agreeable one ;
so I listened sympathetically while he
bewailed himself for a time ; but at
length the habit of meek subordination
which characterised him restored order
to his ideas ; he remembered that Sarah
must be instructed to pack the trousseau
forthwith, and, jumping up, trotted off
homewards.

As soon as I had got rid of the
Reverend Simeon, I went to bed. Nowadays
I can take up my work and perform
it with more or less of facility,
whatever may be my mental condition ;
but I suppose that in earlier life I must
have been less callous, for I felt that it

would be out of the question to attack
that unfinished article again while I could
think of nothing but poor old Jim and
the cruel blow which it would be my lotto
strike him on the morrow. If anyone
who reads these lines has ever been
obliged to kill a favourite dog, he will
in some measure appreciate my sensations.
The thing has to be done ; it is
necessary and merciful to do it ; but the
necessity is a horrible one, and makes
you feel, for the time being, very like a
traitor and a murderer. Unfortunately,
too, Jim and I were not upon the best
of terms, by reason of that fruitless note
of warning which I had thought proper
to sound in his ear, and I knew that, in
acquitting myself of my present mission,
I should have the air of saying " I told

you so!" Not that in reality I had foretold
or foreseen what had occurred, for
I had never dreamt that Hilda wished
to marry Bracknell, nor, for that matter,
that he would be so mad as to marry
her if she did wish it ; still it was plain
that, under the circumstances, I should
be an unwelcome ambassador ; and as I
lay broad awake, I almost regretted that
I had not rather offered to face Lord
Staines, who, if the worst came to the
worst, could do no more than swear
at me.

Being thus harassed, I naturally got
little sleep that night, and was glad
when the first glimmer of dawn gave mean
excuse for getting up and stealing
out of doors. I wandered about till
breakfast time ; but I did not go to

church to witness " the religious ceremony
" alluded to by Hilda, edifying
though it would doubtless have been to
watch the demeanour of the bride and
bridegroom on that occasion.

As matters fell out, the task of enlightening
Lord Staines was thrown upon my
shoulders, in addition to that with which I
had already saddled myself; for scarcely
had I finished my breakfast when Mr.
Turner arrived, trembling and breathless,
to say that he really did not feel equal
to encountering the brunt of his patron's
wrath.

'' Indeed," he added, with a ludicrous
effort to regain his accustomed suave
pomposity, *' I am not sure that It would
be right on my part to do so. I have

not forgotten the very improper terms
in which Lord Staines chose to address
me when I called upon him once before
on — er — a somewhat similar errand, and
both for his sake and for my own, any
repetition of such a scene is — er — to be
deprecated. To you profanity of language
would be less shocking — at least, I
mean that you must be more accustomed
to hearing it ; and — er — in short — "

*' In short," I interrupted, not over
respectfully — for really the Reverend
Simeon's aspect at that moment was not
calculated to induce respect — '' you want
me to do your dirty work for you. Very
well ; I don't particularly mind ; I mayas
well be hanged for a sheep as for a
lamb. Only I don't promise to prevent
Lord Staines from going down to the

Rectory later in the day, and shocking
you with profane language. It may not
be altogether your fault that your daughter
has disgraced herself and inveigled Blackwell
into disgracing himself with her,
but you may as well be prepared to be
told that it is. If I were in your place
I should be a good deal more frightened
of Jim Leigh than of Lord Staines."

*' Gently, my dear young friend,
gently!" returned Mr. Turner with dignity.
"You are excited, and I do not
blame you for it ; but to say that my
daughter has disgraced herself is to say
too much — a great deal too much. That
she did very wrong in engaging herself
to James, I allow, and he will not find
me slow to express my sincere sorrow
and sympathy ; but we must bear in

mind that her affections were given in
the first place to Lord Bracknell. I will
not say that the young people were
justified in taking the law into their
own hands ; yet I may doubt whether
Lord Staines's motives for forbidding
them to marry were of the highest kind.
Now do not answer me, I beg of you. I
can see that you are not yet master of
yourself. If you will allow me I will go
up stairs and sit with your dear mother
while you walk over to Staines Court."

Evidently Hilda had been talking to
him, and it would be absurd to waste
good Indignation upon such hopeless
ineptitude.

'' Pray do so, Mr. Turner," I answered,
my mother will be very glad to see you.
Only I hope you will kindly refrain from

expounding your views to her with regard
to your daughter's marriage, because
she is rather subject to attacks of
nausea."

With this valedictory shot, I set out to
perform the first and least painful of the
duties which I had accepted. I found
Lord Staines in his study, and, apparently,
in a rather bad humour."

Oh, how do you do, Maynard ? " said
he, looking up from the letter which he
was writing. " Do you happen to know
anything about that fellow Bracknell ?
When I was his age it used to be considered
the civil thing just to let your
father know when you proposed to leave
his house or return to it ; but nowadays
the young men seem to think that they
needn't take any notice of their fathers,

except when they want money. Here is
Bracknell gone off, nobody knows whereat
the very moment when I am making
business arrangements for which his signature
is required. I told him about it
two days ago ; but, of course, my convenience
counts for nothing when it is a
question of going to some confounded
steeplechase or other."

I thought there was nothing to be
gained by putting off the evil moment.
*' I can't tell you where Bracknell is.
Lord Staines," I replied ; *' but I have
come here to give you some very unpleasant
news about him. He was married
yesterday at the Registrar's office at
Buckingham to Hilda Turner."

Lord Staines started up, overturning
his chair. A rush of blood made his

VOL. I. K

cheeks crimson for a moment, and then
ebbed slowly away, leaving them of a
chalky whiteness. For a full minute he
uttered never a word ; then he advanced
slowly towards me from behind the table,
trembling a good deal. '' Maynard, my
dear fellow," said he quite quietly, '' it
is not possible that you can be telling
the truth. Somebody has played a
foolish hoax upon you."

And when I shook my head, '' My
good sir," he went on, with rather more
Impatience, '' I tell you that the thing
is Impossible ! You will allow me to
know something about my own son, I
suppose. Bracknell Is what you please —
I never called him perfect, God knows !
but at least he Is a man of honour.
You don't seem to take in that no

honourable man could act in the way
that you describe."

'' It is not altogether unprecedented," I
ventured to observe.

I don't care whether it's unprecedented
or not ; Bracknell never did it.
If he had been determined to marry this
this lady, he would have defied me
and done it in the light of day, like a
man, knowing very well what the consequences
would be. But as for slinking
off with her on the sly and betraying
the confidence of his friend — pooh !
don't tell me ! If you brought the
whole parish to swear to it, I wouldn't
believe it."

I suppose he was really less incredulous
than he professed to be, poor old fellow,
for presently he added : '' And pray,

K 2

where did you get this precious piece
of information from ? "

And then I told him the whole story.
It was one of the most unpleasant things
that I have ever had to do in my life,
and when I had said my say I wanted
to go away and leave him ; but he held
me back, gripping my arm tightly. Sofar
he had listened to me quietly enough,
scarcely interrupting me, and only once
or twice muttering under his breath a
word or two which I could not catch,
but now on a sudden his anger burst
forth in a storm of disjointed, incoherent
sentences.

*' ril never see his face again — never !
You may tell him so from me. He has
chosen to take his own way, and by the
Lord he shall have it ! Not another

penny shall he have. I'll stop his allowance
— a devilish handsome allowance too !
and his debts, which I've paid again
and again, by George ! without so much
as grumbling — K fool and his money —
but he'll find that I'm not quite the fool
he takes me for. Damn it all, sir ! did
you come up here with the idea that you
were going to talk me over ? You have
got up this scheme among you — you and
that girl and old Turner, a man who
owes everything to me, and thinks he
can play me such a trick with impunity.
But I'll very soon let him see his mistake.
He shall resign the living, as sure as I
stand here!"

'' I think you forget, Lord Staines," I
interrupted, '' that I, at least, can have
had no conceivable object in furthering

Hilda's schemes. If I had known anything
about them, or had had any power
over them, I should have done my best
to put a stop to them for poor Jim
Leigh's sake."

** Yes, yes — I know," he answered, with
a complete change of tone. " I beg your
pardon, Maynard ; don't mind what I
said about you ; I didn't mean it. I
mean what I say about Bracknell, though
I'll never speak to him again. Oh,
Harry, that boy has broken my heart !
He knew it was essential that he
should marry money — and then to ruin
himself for the sake of such a girl as
that I You needn't pity Jim Leigh ; he's
well rid of a bad bargain."

Very likely he was, but unfortunately
there was no likelihood at all that he

would take that view of the matter. I
was beginning to say as much, but the
words died away upon my hips ; for at
this moment the door was thrown open
and Jim himself strode into the room.
As soon as I saw his face I perceived
that some one had been beforehand with
me, and that there was no longer any
occasion for me to consider in what words
he might best be informed of Hilda's flight.

He glanced rapidly at each of us in
turn. *' It's true, then ! " he exclaimed.

Lord Staines wheeled round upon him
with an odd access of fury. " True ! — yes,
it's true enough. Why the devil shouldn't
it be true ? Did you make the mistake
of supposing that my son was an honourable
man .^ Why what a simpleton you
must be ! I — I "

He stopped abruptly, stared at us for
an instant with fixed glazing eyes, and
then, swaying forwards, would have fallen
on his face if Jim had not caught him.

Between us we lifted him on to a sofa,
and then the servants were called, and
poor little Lady Mildred had to be sent
for. I told her in as few words as possible
what was the cause of her father's seizure,
thinking it best that she should know
the truth ; and, so far as I could judge,
she was not very greatly surprised. She
kept her presence of mind admirably,
displaying no agitation and doing what
little could be done until the doctor
came.

Later in the day a great London man
was telegraphed for ; but our local
practitioner confided to me that he would

not have considered this step necessary
in the case of a patient of less exalted
rank.

"■ Will he die, then ? " I asked.

'well, no," answered the doctor; "not
this time. But he will never be the
same assail. I have told Lady mildred
that she may exercise her own judgment
about telegraphing to Lord Bracknell, but
that in my opinion he should not be
allowed to see his father'

Jim and I left the house together. We
had hardly exchanged a word as yet, and
I did not like to begin ; so that we
walked in silence as far as the park
gates, where our paths diverged ; and
there he came to a halt.

Good-bye, Harry," said he ; " I'm
going away tomorrow."

'' The best thing you can do," I
answered.

'' Is it ? ^I don't know. Anyhow, I
can't stay here. I shall go to India, or
Australia, or somewhere — it doesn't much
matter. Harry, you are right : this world
is peopled by a set of rascals and liars."

I said the world was bad enough, but
that I had not brought quite so sweeping
a charge as that against it.

Oh, I thought you had. One thing I
know : I will never trust man or woman
again as long as I live. But it won't
bear talking about, and, after all, what's
the good of talking ? Good-bye, Harry."

He turned and walked away a few
paces, then suddenly faced about and
came back to me. " Some day or other
we shall meet again, if I live," he said ;

but when that will be I can't tell. Don't
forget me, old chap ; I'll write to you
when I can."

And so we parted. I confess that I
did not take his words quite literally, and
fully expected that he would be over atour
house on the following day. But I
was disappointed. He left England, just
as he had said that he would do ; Elmhurst
was shut up ; its owner was lost
sight of, If not absolutely forgotten, by
his many friends, and It was years before
I saw his honest, kindly face again.

The hero of this narrative is, of course,
Jim Leigh. It is true that Jim is not
and never has been a particularly heroic
personage ; still, so far as writer and
readers are concerned, he stands, for the
time being, in that proud position, and
must abide by the consequences of it.
One of these is necessarily the occurrence
of a considerable hiatus in the
record of his career ; for what is an unfortunate
writer to do when his hero
disappears into the interior of Abyssinia,

or the least frequented provinces of
India, and will give no account of himself
for months together? If I only
knew something of the circumstances
under which, during all those years, Jim
slaughtered lions and tigers and elephants
and bears in the happy hunting
grounds of three continents, I should
doubtless have many a thrilling adventure
to chronicle ; but I could never get
anything but the most bald and meagre
recital of his performances out of him ;
nor do I dare to draw upon my imagination,
for my own sporting experiences
do not extend beyond the shooting of
partridges and pheasants, and even those
I am very apt to miss, when flurried.

Unfortunately, too, Jim Is one of the
worst correspondents I have ever had to

deal with. I did indeed receive letters
from him with tolerable regularity; but
for any information of interest that they
contained, they might as well have been
written upon the back of a post-card.
** It is awfully hot here, but I have got
accustomed to it and don't mind. Yesterday
we were very lucky, killing two
fine tigers ; but our average so far has

been hardly up to the mark The

top of Mount Everest is 29,000 feet
above the sea, which seems a lot. I
wonder why they never taught us modern
geography when we were boys. I
find that there is nothing like cold tea
for quenching the thirst." And so forth,
and so forth. That is scarcely the kind
of thing that one wants to hear from a
man who has quitted his native land ina

state of bitter disenchantment and misanthropy,
and who at the end of six
years ought surely to be much better or
much worse than when he started.

Jim never alluded to his misfortunes,
nor made any inquiry as to the fate of
those who had caused them. I generously
gave him a few items of intelligence
without having been asked ; but
he did not refer to them in his replies,
and in like manner he ignored my representations
that owners of landed property
ought not to be absentees for an
indefinite period. Once or twice he
spoke vaguely of coming home, but
something always occurred to make him
postpone his return, until, as I have said,
he had been wandering about the world

o

for no less than six consecutive years.

In the course of that time we who
remained in England had all grown six
years older ; it may be that some of us
had grown a little wiser, though I am
not sure of it ; and some had grown, if
not famous, at least notorious. As forme,
I had fulfilled my tutor's negative
prediction, and had not set the Thames
on fire. Nevertheless, I had so far succeeded
in my calling as to be always
provided with a sufficiency of work, and
remunerated by what I suppose I must
call a sufficiency of pay. Also I had
largely extended the circle of my acquaintance,
and, during certain months
of the year, went a good deal into
society, where every now and then it
was my great good fortune to meet with
somebody who had never written a book

nor even contributed to a magazine. I
have always found such persons exceptionally
clever and entertaining, but they
are becoming more and more rare, and
will soon, I fear, be extinct. ' The others
the majority, I mean, who have at one
time or another put their ideas into print
are given to making conversation
dreary for a poor man who gets his
living out of literature, and who would
naturally rather talk about any other
subject under the sun in play-hours.

Now it came to pass that one hot
afternoon in the height of the London
season I had returned to my chambers,
physically and mentally exhausted, after
an intellectual luncheon-party, and was
saying to myself — with very great
truth and justice — that of all forms of

VOL. I. L

social cruelty luncheon-parties are the

most wantonly malignant, when a loud

rat-tat, as from a heavy stick, made me

glance at the door, through which, after

an instant of delay, there strode into my

presence a tall, broad-shouldered, bronzed

individual, who had Jim Leigh's eyes and

nose, surmounting a black moustache and

beard entirely unknown to me. The

nose, however, was enough to swear by ;

and I don't know when in the course of

my life I have been more delighted to

behold a familiar and prominent feature.

I welcomed him with a warmth which I

hope was as agreeable to him as it was

sincere on my part, and he smiled allover

his face, quite Hke the Jim of old ;

so that I freely forgave him his beard.

*' And now that you have come back

at last, you mean to stay at home, like
a respectable English country gentleman,
I trust," said I, after I had made him
comfortable with an arm-chair and a
cigar, and something cold to drink.

Well — I suppose so," he answered,
with a shade of hesitation. '' To tell
you the truth, I'm utterly sick and tired
of foreign lands, and I should like
nothing better than to settle down at
Elmhurst for the rest of my days."

"What should prevent you from doing
as you like ? You can't mean that you
haven't got over the trouble that drove
you away yet?" said I, for I thought
we had better come to the point at
once.

*^ I believe I have got over it, I don't
know for certain," he answered slowly.

L 2

*' Let us talk about something else.
Tell me all about yourself."

So I told him all about myself, and
his observations upon my literary achievements
were flattering and discriminating,
though I think he was a little bit nervous
lest I should ask him whether he
had read my works. Then we went onto
speak of friends of former years.

"■ Poor old Lord Staines is still alive,
I hear," he remarked.

** He is still alive," I replied, '' and
not likely to die, so far as I know ; but
you would hardly recognise him. On
sunny mornings one meets him in a
bath-chair in the park, with Lady Mildred
walking beside him. He doesn't
talk much nowadays, but he likes to see
people, and he seems to be quite happy

when he is allowed to have his little
grandson with him. I told you that
he was reconciled with the Brackets
long ago."

Jim nodded. " And how do they get
on } " he inquired, asking the question
with something of an effort.

** Many people are curious to know,"
I answered. " That is, if you mean, how
do they manage to pay their way ?
They are said to get on together rather
indifferently. On the other hand, they
have got on in society with a success
which leaves nothing, or very little, to
be desired. Lady Bracknell has climbed
to the very top of the tree, and sits
there in a graceful attitude to be gaped
at by a multitude of admirers. She likes
admiration, as you will remember, and

takes some pains to obtain it. She is
very accessible, too, in spite of her brilliant
position, and if you will go and call
upon her in Wilton Place I am sure she
will be glad to see you, and will begin
exercising her fascinations upon you
without loss of time."

"Don't!" said Jim.

But I went on all the same. *you
had better call upon her ; I don't think
she will fascinate you, my dear Jim.
Her hair has changed colour; it is a
lovely bronze now, but her complexion
requires no aid from art. She dresses
exquisitely ; she is addicted to private
theatricals ; and once or twice in the
season she makes her father-in-law give
a ball, and receives his guests for him,
so that Lady Mildred may be free to

remain by his side, in case he should
want anything. When he snubs her,
as he does every now and again, she
won't allow him to see little Lord Sunning
for a day or two. That brings
him to his bearings, and he has to go
round to Wilton Place in his bath-chair
and apologise."

I don't want to hear about her,"
said Jim. He added presently : " I suppose
you sometimes see Bracknell, don't
you t

I replied that I did. As a matter of
fact, I had latterly been a good deal in
Wilton Place, because I am credited
with a certain facility for drilling amateur
actors, and Lady Bracknell had
found me useful in helping her to
arrange the plays with which she was

wont to entertain distinguished audiences
from time to time.

''I wonder," said Jim, ** whether he
ever feels sorry for having treated meas
he did. We used to be friends, you
know, and — and I don't think he can
quite have realised what an injury he
was doing me."

That seemed likely enough ; but I
was unable to say that I had observed
any signs of an awakened conscience in
Bracknell. *' I know exactly what will
happen," I remarked. *' You will be as
great friends as ever by the end of the
week ; and before a fortnight Is over he
will have borrowed a sum of money
from you which may probably be represented
by four figures. What Is the
use of your trying to bear malice, Jim ?

You ought to have thrashed Bracknell
six years ago. You could have thrashed
him without any great difficulty ; the
process would have been consolatory to
you and salutary to him. But instead
of doing that, you chose to expend your
wrath slowly upon unoffending lions and
tigers, and the consequence is that you
haven't a spark of it left for home
consumption. You are dying to shake
hands with your enemy now — you know
you are."

*' I don't know that I am particularly
anxious to shake hands with him," said
Jim considering. " I would rather not
think of him as a traitor, that's all. You
see, it does make a difference if a man
says he is sorry."

I was beginning to point out that

expressions of sorrow must be taken
for what they are worth, and that,
although it may be right to pardon a
man who has shamefully deceived you,
it is extremely foolish to put faith in him
again, when I was interrupted by the
entrance of a second visitor, and who
should this prove to be but Bracknell
himself !

It was an odd coincidence that had
brought him to my chambers on that
afternoon of all others ; for he had never
so far honoured me before ; but he had
evidently not come with any idea of
meeting Jim, whom he glanced at with
an impatient frown and did not recognise.
Jim was certainly altered, but Bracknell
was perhaps even more so. He had lost
his good looks to a great extent, and

carried more superfluous flesh than he
was entitled to at his ao^e. His const



tuition was a fine one, but I believe he
mixed his liquors in an appalling manner,
and one can't sit up all night and every
night, playing cards, without exhibiting
traces of fatigue.

Jim stared at him in a sort of consternation
; no doubt the change in his
former friend was more apparent to him
than it was to me. As he did not see
fit to declare himself, the duty of making
him known devolved upon me, and I
watched with some interest the demeanour
of the two men who were thus
unexpectedly brought face to face once
more. Jim got up slowly, looking very
grave, and said, '' How do you do,
Bracknell .^ " But Bracknell burst into

a laugh, and seized his old schoolfellow
by the hand.

'jim Leigh, as I'm a living sinner!"
he exclaimed. '' Dear old Jim ! Whereon
earth have you been concealing
yourself for the last hundred years ?
Didn't somebody tell me you were
going in for big game in Central
Africa or somewhere ? I wish I had
been with you ! Let me know when
you start off again, and I'll see if I can't
get out of this for a few months. By
Jove ! what a relief it would be ! "

It was so evident that he had completely
forgotten the trifling circumstance
of his having once robbed Jim of a
wife that I was shaken by internal
laughter, and had to turn away to conceal
my emotion ; but Jim, I dare say,

saw nothlnof to lauch at in such callousness.


'' I don't think I am likely to be making
any more expeditions of the kind yet
awhile," he answered coldly. " I have
stayed away from England too long as
it is."

Have you ? " said Bracknell, whose
attention was already beginning to wander.
"Well, I don't know ; England's a beastly
country to live in, unless one has about
thirty thousand a year, clear. You don't
mind my smoking, do you, Maynard ? "

I said I did not ; and he added,
lowering his voice slightly, *' I want just
to have a word or two with you presently,
if you're not busy."

Jim took this rather broad hint, and
put on his hat. After I had ascertained

his address, and had arranged a meeting
with him for the following day, he
turned to go ; but Bracknell, starting
out of a fit of abstraction, caught him
suddenly by the elbow with renewed
cordiality.

'' Going to stay In London for a bit ? "
he asked. *' You must look us up In
Wilton Place, old chap. You know my
wife ? "

I had the pleasure of being rather
intimately acquainted with Lady Blackwell
some years ago," replied Jim grimly.

Oh yes, of course. Well, she'll be
very glad to see you again. Come and
dine with us some evening. I expect
we're pretty deeply engaged just now,
but I'll drop you a line."

When Jim had departed, I could not

help remarking, "It must be very convenient
to have such a bad memory as
yours ! "

Bracknell was apparently preoccupied.
"• Bad memory ? How do you mean ? "
he asked. '' Oh, I see ! But it would
be more to the purpose to pity Leigh
for having such a confoundedly good one,
wouldn't it ? He looked as sulky as a
bear. I say, Maynard, will you 'do mea
small favour ? "

'' That depends upon what it may be,"
I answered.

'' Oh, it isn't much of a one. You
know the editor of the Piccadilly Gazette,
don't you ? Well, just run your eye
over this paragraph that he has put into
his scurrilous paper."

He drew a newspaper from his pocket

and pointed to the following oracular
announcement :

'* A certain noble earl is not quite so
enfeebled in intelligence as is sometimes
supposed. Not satisfied with knowing
that his son is heir-presumptive to a vast
estate, he is moving heaven and earth
to get his daughter married to the present
holder thereof : so that, in case
of the advent of an heir-apparent upon
the scene;, the property may at least
remain in the family. And yet the
heir-presumptive is not happy they
say."

'' I don't want Als Beauchamp to read
that sort of thing, you know," said
Bracknell.

'* I can well believe that you don't,"
I answered ; '^ but how do you propose

to prevent him from reading it, since it
is already in print ? "

*^ Oh, that's nothing. Very likely he
won't see it ; and if he does see it, the
odds are that he won't understand. What
I want is to stop this newspaper brute
from speaking more plainly. You might
be a good fellow and manage it for me.
Tell him we'll invite him to dinner if
he likes, and if that won't do, find out
what will do. I suppose he has his
price."

"Very likely he has," I answered, "and
I am much flattered by your intrusting
me with this delicate mission. But I am
like the editor — I demand my quid pro
quo, and if I do this for you, you will
have to do something for me."

With all the pleasure in life ; but it

VOL. I. M

isn't much that I can do for any man,
except ask him to dinner."

*' You can do a Httle more for Jim
Leigh, whom I think you will admit that
you have treated rather badly. First of
all, you can beg his pardon. Is that
too bitter a pill for you to swallow ? "

'' Oh, I'll beg his pardon, if it will make
him any happier," answered Bracknell
laughing.

*' Secondly, you must promise that you
will neither ask him to play cards with
you, nor borrow money of him."

Bracknell opened his eyes. " Do you
know, Maynard," said he, " that that is
not very far removed from being an
impertinent request ? "

I replied that I might have said much
the same thing of the request which he

had addressed to me. Anyhow, I must
have his promise, or I should not go to
the office of the Piccadilly Gazette,

So he laughed again and gave the required
pledge, and went his way, leaving
me somewhat reassured as to Jim's future.
Lady Bracknell, I knew, would try to
make him fall in love with her again ;
but I was not much afraid of her succeeding.
Clever as she was, she was not
quite clever enough to understand that
the surest way of disgusting Jim would
be to show him that she was no more
true to the husband whom she had chosen
than she had been in days gone by to
himself.

M 2

One morning not long after this, Jim
did me the honour to breakfast with me,
and gave me an account of his first
interview with Lady Bracknell, which
amused me very much and contrasted
favourably in point of style with his
epistolary efforts.

*' I thought," said he, " that I had
better call and get it over ; so I went
to Wilton Place about six o'clock In the
afternoon, hoping that she would be in
the Park and that I might leave my

card and retire. But as she was at
home, I had to march into the drawing-room,
feeling a little shy and awkward,
don't you know, as one does after
spending such a long time out of reach
of civilisation. I dare say I got rather
red in the face, and I was horribly conscious
that my boots squeaked. There
were a lot of men In the room, young
fellows with bouquets in their button-holes
and very high collars — I hear you call
them ' masters ' nowadays — and they all
opened their eyes and mouths at me,
which was like their impudence. I confess
that they made me uncomfortable
at first ; but after a bit I recollected
that if I had ordered the eldest of them
to run up to the Brocas for me eight
or nine years ago he would have put his

best leg foremost, and that set me more
at my ease. Besides, I almost forgot
them from the moment that Hilda began
to talk to me. My dear Harry, what
an extraordinary — what a miraculous
change ! You never prepared me for
anything of the sort."

'^ I told you that her hair had become
debased from gold to copper," I remarked.
*' If I didn't prepare you for
any more startling change, it was because
I must own that I can't detect
any."

'' Can't detect any ! Do you mean to
tell me that Lady Bracknell Is the same
woman as Hilda Turner ? Oh, I know
what you are grinning at ; you think the
change Is In me and that there never
was really any such person as the Hilda

whom I was in love with. Perhaps you
are right ; but for all that, she has
transformed herself into something: ven.^
unlike what she used to be. She
doesn't look a day older, and speaking
impartially — as I can now — I should say
that she is prettier, if anything ; but oh,
dear ! I didn't like her ways of going
on at all. She is quite the modern
great lady ; she has all the fashionable
slang at the tip of her tongue ; and she
said things which — which — well, I hate
to hear ladies say such things. And it
struck me that the masters were anything
but respectful to her. As I
listened to her, I wondered how I could
ever have been such an idiot — but no
matter ! You said she wouldn't fascinate
me, and most certainly she didn't.

I am quite cured, Harry, and I suppose
I ought to be very glad, but when one
has nursed a complaint for years it
makes one feel rather queer to lose it
all of a sudden. The sensation is something
like having a double tooth out.

o o

It's a good riddance, of course ; but it
seems to leave an enormous gap behind
it. Well, those young swells took themselves
off, one by one, until she and I
were left alone, and then — do you know
what she did then ? "

To be sure I do," I replied. "- She
drew her chair close up to yours, put
her head a little on one side, gazed
pensively at you, and presently gave you
to understand that you were the only
arian whom she had ever loved with pure
affection."

*' Oh, no ; she didn't go quite that
length ; though I must say — However,
perhaps I ought not to tell you."

I do not see the use of having a
tried and trusted friend If he Is not
to be let into your confidence. I think
you decidedly ought to tell me what
she did," said I. For I wanted to
know.

"Well," Jim continued, 'she began by
abusing Bracknell — said he was a drunkard
and a spendthrift, and that he ill-treated
her, and I don't know what all.
Fancy a woman speaking about her
husband like that ! "

Evidently this was a new and distasteful
experience to Jim. " Perhaps It was
true, though," I suggested.

"If it was, she ought to have been

the last person to say so," returned that
hard-hearted Jim. '' But, between ourselves,
I don't believe It was true. She
has told me untruths before now, and
why shouldn't she tell them again ? I
tried to stop her ; but It wasn't a bit of
good. She went on about her marriage
having been a mistake and about her
having been drawn Into It and having
repented when It was too late, and so
forth. Do you suppose she says that
sort of thing to everybody ? "

I replied that I really didn't know ;
but that probably she endeavoured to
suit her conversation to her auditor.

"■ Her conversation didn't suit me, at
ail events," returned Jim emphatically.
And then he told me how Bracknell had
begged his pardon In a very frank and

manly way for the wrong that he had
done him six years before.

*' I went to call at Portman Square the
next day," he continued. " Poor old
Lord Staines was always kind to me
when I was a boy, and I think it amused
him to hear all about my adventures.
He wanted to know whether I had seen
little Sunning yet, and began to brag
about the boy and his pluck and his
beauty very much as he used to brag
about Bracknell long ago. Poor old
fellow ! it was rather sad to hear him.
He said, * I hope you and Bracknell
have made It up,' and when I told him
that we had, he muttered, ' That's right
that's riorht. Old friends oughtn't to
quarrel about a woman. Women aren't
worth quarrelling about.' After which,

he pushed his chair back and made a
Httle bow to Lady Mildred. ' I don't
mean you, my dear,' he said ; ' you're
worth your weight In gold, as everybody
knows.' I remember your mother used
always to be telling me that Lady
Mildred was perfection, but somehow I
never noticed in those days how pretty
she was. I suppose I had only eyes for
one person then. Ah, well ! times are
changed. I'd very much rather talk to
Lady Mildred than to Lady Bracknell
now. I had a long chat with her while
her father dozed over the newspaper.
It was pleasant to find that she hadn't
forgotten me at all, though she said she
would hardly have known me with my
beard, which she didn't consider an
improvement."

Is that why you have shaved It off ? "
I inquired ; for Indeed Jim's long, thin
face had been deprived of that ornament.

Oh, well, one doesn't want to look
more like a backwoodsman than one can
help, you know," he answered. 'ras I
was saying, Lady Mildred and I had a
good talk and discussed you all and enjoyed
ourselves very much, until one of
Lady Brackets masters came In and
interrupted us. A fellow called Beauchamp
— do you know anything of him ? "

Alfred Beauchamp' I replied, '' is a
young man whom everybody knows
something about, by reason of his being
quite in the front rank of eligible bachelors.
His rent-roll is said to exceed
forty thousand a year ; also he has coal-mines
which, I believe, are expected to

go on increasing in value. He is the
only surviving son of the late Lady
Staines's brother, and in the event of his
dying without issue, the whole of his
property would pass to Bracknell. As it
would be dangerous to count upon his
doing anything so obliging as that, the
family have decided to marry him to
Lady Mildred ; only I imagine that they
haven't ventured to tell him so, because,
of course, he is his own master, and he
might insist upon his right to choose a
wife for himself Did Lady Mildred
receive him well ? "

'* I don't know what you call receiving
him well," answered Jim, looking a little
displeased. " She was civil to him ; but
I didn't stay long after he came in. I
must say that he struck me as being

rather a young fool and certainly not
good enough for her. Do you suppose
that she wants to marry him ? "

'' Lady Mildred is a dutiful daughter,"
I replied, " and Lord Staines is notoriously
In embarrassed circumstances. I
can't say for certain what she may want,
but I think I can form a pretty shrewd
guess at what she will have to do. She
is not so very much to be pitied, after
all. There are very few girls in London
who would refuse Alfred Beauchamp, I
can tell you."

*' Ah, you're just what you used to
be ! " exclaimed Jim impatiently. '' Why
should you always take such a delight
in representing that everybody is selfish
and sordid ? "

I pointed out that I had made no such

general arraignment and that, so far as
Lady Mildred was concerned, I had
meant to imply that, if she married her
cousin, she would probably do so from
motives of filial and disinterested affection
; but Jim did not seem disposed to
listen to me.

I dare say you know more about it
than I do," he interrupted. *' Anyhow,
it s no business of mine."

I did not tell him that I had reason
to doubt whether poor Lady Mildred
would be happy with Beauchamp. My
mother still maintained that the girl's
heart had been given past recalling to
Jim ; but it would have been a pity to
hint at such a state of things ; because
he was evidently a little smitten with her,
and it was quite certain that she could

not now accept him, whether he wore a
beard or not. So I agreed with him
that these projected marriages in highlife
did not concern humble individuals
like ourselves, and suggested, by way of
changing the subject, that we should
drive up to Lord's to see the Eton and
Harrow match, as we had previously
arranged to do.

Nothing is more futile and foolish than
to say '' Matters used to be better
managed in old days." Such assertions
are never believed, and are tolerably sure
either to give offence or to provoke
covert sneers. At the same time, I
should think that there can be few
admirers of the present so infatuated as
to deny that Lord's on the Eton and
Harrow match-day has suffered a change

VOL. I. N

for the worse. It is no longer the
pleasant meeting-place that it once was ;
it is frequented by a vast concourse of
people who care neither for Eton, nor
for Harrow, nor for cricket ; and as
for chancing unexpectedly upon an old
schoolfellow, you have a far better
chance of doing that in Pall Mall or St.
James's Street than in the midst of such
a rabble. Jim and I threaded our way,
grumbling, through the deep fringe of
spectators, whose persons and vehicles
effectually prevented us from catching a
glimpse of the game, and, having been
provided with tickets by a member, were
about to turn these to account when
we were arrested by hearing our names
called out In a high, clear voice which
was familiar to both of us. From the

open carriage in which she was sitting,
surrounded, as usual, by fashionable
youths, Lady Bracknell beckoned to us
to approach, and we could not do otherwise
than obey her orders. Her ladyship
was clad in Eton blue from the
crown of her head to the sole of her
foot, and very becoming the colour was
to her. She attacked Jim at once.

Come and talk to me," she said ; *' I
have a thousand things to ask you. You
don't want to look at that stupid cricket,
do you ? "

Jim, with a self-assertion for which I
should not have given him credit, replied,
*' Well, I came here for that purpose."
But probably the reluctance of the fly
acts as an agreeable stimulus upon the
spider.

N 2

*' You shall go and look at it presently''
Hilda said, and signed to him
to get into the carriage beside her.

So I left them together and strolled
on, feeling truly sorry for poor Jim, because
I am sure that it must be a most
unpleasant thing to be obliged to talk to
a woman with whom you have once been
madly in love and whom you love no
longer.

I had not proceeded very far before I
came upon the Staines party — old Lord
Staines lying back In his carriage,
propped up by cushions which kept
slipping down and demanded careful
watching on the part of Lady Mildred ;
little Lord Sunning, standing upon his
grandfather s knee to get a better view
of the game ; and Alfred Beauchamp,

leaning over the carrlas^e door, and
blowing cigarette-smoke into his cousin's
face.

I stopped to speak to them, and Lord
Staines said, " So your friend Leigh is
back again at last, is he ? — back at last,
eh ? Stupid fellow ! if he had stayed at
home, he'd have got over his disappointment
sooner, and thanked Heaven for
it. I see more than that young woman
fancies — more than she fancies by a
long way."

The old gentleman had contracted a
disquieting habit of thinking aloud. He
went on muttering to himself now, and
I dare say that if his remarks had been
audible, they would have been found to
be uncomplimentary to his daughter-in-law,
whom he detested ; but who, nevertheless,

had reduced him to a state of
tolerably complete subjection.

Lady Mildred looked a little nervous,
I thought, and went on talking very fast
to Beauchamp, a fair-complexioned young
man, whose conversational powers were
not brilliant, yet who was by no means
such a fool as Jim had hastily assumed
him to be. It struck me that he was
bringing his mind to bear upon the
thought that it might be a good thing
if he were to marry his cousin, and
that he was succeeding very fairly
well.

However, his attentions, if such they
were, were soon interrupted. Little
Sunning, who was rather a friend of
mine, had clambered from his grandfathers
knee on to my shoulder, and

had just dealt a resounding blow upon
the top of my hat, by way of applause
to a retiring batsman, when a vision of
sky-blue flitted before my eyes, and a
high-pitched voice (I forget whether I
have mentioned that Hilda's voice had a
metallic ring which no effort on her part
availed to soften) said : '' You are a nice
sort of person to make appointments
with, Mr. Beauchamp ! May I ask
whether you remember begging me to
bring you here to-day ? And are you
aware that I kept the carriage waiting
for you three quarters of an hour ? "

And then I heard Beauchamp murmuring
excuses from the background. " By
Jove ! Lady Bracknell, I'm so awfully
sorry. What an idiot I am 1 Can't
think how I came to forget it ! "

There was an indistinct rejoinder,
followed by a gradual dying away of both
voices, from which I concluded that her
ladyship had taken the young man by
the ear and led him off. Having persuaded
Sunning that he would be more
comfortable, and that I should be cooler,
if he got up onto the box, and having
thus regained the power of turning my
head round, I perceived that Jim had
taken Beauchamp's place, and was conversing
with Lady Mildred, whose eyes had
grown perceptibly brighter during the last
few minutes. She certainly looked very
pretty in her white dress, and I could
not wonder at the satisfaction which Jim
obviously derived from gazing at her,
but it was unlucky, to say the least of
it, that he should have taken such a

long time to discover her beauty. Six
years before, when Alfred Beauchamp had
had a father and an elder brother living,
there might have been some hope for
him ; but his chance was now represented
by a zero of a type so clear that
one could only hope he might be enough
of a reasonable being to see it. Reasonableness,
however, was not his distinguishing
characteristic.

Presently Bracknell made his way to
the carriage and mounted the box beside
his son. He took no notice of us, but
hoisted the boy upon his knee, and they
two became absorbed in contemplation
of the game, the elder making occasional
explanations to the younger which
were listened to with interest and respect.
I suppose paternal fondness, must

have been hereditary in the Henley
family, for Bracknell was not one whit
less foolishly devoted to his boy than
his father had been to him in days of
yore, and, to all appearance, was bent
upon reproducing a system of treatment
which had not been conspicuously
successful in his own case. The child
had Bracknell's dark hair and grey eyes.
I could discern no resemblance to his
mother in him, nor, in truth, did that
strain of blood seem likely to infuse any
fresh qualities of a valuable nature into
the race.

While I was watching the representatives
of three generations. Lady
Bracknell and Beauchamp strolled by.
The lady was talking with a good deal
of animation, and the gentleman wore

the air of one who is at once fascinated
and puzzled. Bewilderment at the
proceedings of Lady Bracknell was not,
apparently, confined to him, for Lord
Staines, following the pair with his
eyes, muttered quite audibly :

'' I do wonder what infernal mischief
that woman is up to now! Is it only
spite, or is it a plot ? And if it's a
plot, what the deuce is the object of it,
you know ? "

Bracknell looked down from the box
and laughed. " Well, Maynard," said
he, " why are you looking so solemn ?
Taking notes, as usual ? It seems tome
that you have all the elements of a
sensational romance ready to your hand
here. There are bound to be some
strong situations before long, I should

say, and you had better try to be on
the spot when they come off!"

*rand what is the ddnoHment to be?"
I made so bold as to inquire.

*'0h, don't ask me," he returned. *'/
don't know ; and, between you and me,
I doubt very much whether anybody
else does either. All I can see is that
there will be a row soon."

'' What's that you say ? " broke in
Lord Staines querulously. 'why should
there be a row 1 nonsense about a row !
I wish to heaven, Bracknell, that you
could induce your wife to let me manage
my own affairs in my own way ! "

** I wish I could," returned Bracknell,
with a shrug of his shoulders. '' I wish I
could induce her to let me manage 7iiy affairs
in my own way. But I can't, you see."

If Lady Bracknell's motives for luring-beauchamp
away from her sister-in-law's
side were obscure to Lord Staines, they
did not to a reflective person appear
quite unfathomable. When only one life
intervenes between your husband and a
large property, it must, no doubt, seem
deplorable that that life should be supplemented
by others, and I can well believe
that to see Beauchamp married would
have gone to Hilda's heart, even though
he should select as his wife a member

of her husband's family. It is true that
she can hardly have hoped to keep him
permanently single, but she may have
taken into consideration that existence is
precarious, and that young men addicted
to field sports run frequent risks of
breaking their necks. Add to this she
did not love Lord Staines, while she
detested Lady Mildred with the intensity
of an impostor who has been found out,
and you have an explanation of her
conduct which is at least plausible. I
don't say that it is the true explanation,
because I cannot pretend to be
able to follow all the tortuous workings
of such a mind as Hilda's ; but that
the course which events subsequently
took was premeditated and contrived by
her in cold blood seems to me too violent

an hypothesis. In any case, there
could be no question as to the fact that
she had marked Beauchamp down as her
prey, nor did she fail to capture him.
The truth is that she very rarely failed
in enterprises of that kind. She had no
remarkable personal advantages, yet the
men whom she wished to adore her
almost invariably ended by adoring her.
Of the methods which she employed in
order to achieve the desired end I have
excellent reasons for being ignorant. I
suppose that if by an impossibility she
had ever thought it worth her while to
captivate me, I should have succumbed
like the others ; but she never did think
it worth her while, and therefore I have
never ceased to wonder at the ease with
which her victims were gained.

Beauchamp gave no trouble at all.
He surrendered unconditionally at the
first blow, and spent the remainder of
the London season upon his knees,
metaphorically speaking. I used to meet
him and his enchantress pretty frequently
at balls and crushes, and always watched
them with interest. Other people watched
them too, making such spiteful, ironical,
or condemnatory comments upon the
proceedings of the pair as were prompted
by their several dispositions and by the
nature of the case : but by the persons
who have been introduced into this
history it so chanced that they were
little remarked. Lady Mildred, who was
in constant attendance upon her father,
went very seldom into society ; Blackwell
had of late years ceased to frequent

the circles which, as a bachelor, he had
so conspicuously adorned ; and those of
Jim's friends who had not forgotten him
during his long absence belonged for the
most part to his own sex, and were not
in the habit of giving balls. Thus Lady
Bracknell was able to carry out her
designs unmolested ; and as Beauchamp
continued to pay visits to Portman
Square with unfailing regularity, any
anxiety that Lord Staines may have felt
on the day of the cricket-match was
probably soon allayed.

Sunning, to be sure, very nearly let
the cat out of the bag one afternoon
when Jim and I called at his grandfather's
house. We found him and the
old gentleman with a tea-table between
them, busily engaged in eating hot

VOL. I. o

buttered toast. Lady Mildred was pouring
out the tea, and Beauchamp, reclining
in an arm-chair, looked very
much as if he was wondering how soon
he might venture to go away.

'' I do think it is very dangerous,"
Lady Mildred was saying as we entered ;
and after she had shaken* hands with
us she appealed for support to Jim.
'' Mr. Leigh, do you think it is safe
for such a mite as Sunning to ride in
the Row with nobody but a groom to
look after him ? And he always makes
the groom ride a hundred yards behind."

*' From what I have seen of the
equestrian performances in the Row, I
don't think it is an over and above safe
place for anybody to ride in," answered
Jim laughing.

*' But seriously," persisted Lady Mildred,
*' I don't like to think of that
child in the thick of such a crowd. He
has one of those wicked little Shetland
ponies, too, which might overpower him
at any moment."

Sunning, with his mouth full of buttered
toast, was understood to say that
he would like to see the pony that could
overpower him.

Lord Staines chuckled. '' He can take
care of himself — trust him! All the
same, I think Bracknell might go outwith
the boy."

Sunning, having swallowed his toast,
informed us that his father never rode
in London. '' And I mustn't ride with
mother when Lies there," he added, pointing
a greasy forefinger at Beauchamp.

o 2

** Eh ? —-what ? — who ? " ejaculated Lord
Staines, pricking up his ears.

And Sunning did not mend matters
by continuing, In his Hoping, childish
treble, '' Before he came there was
another gentleman, but I think he's
gone away now. Mother says not to
ride with her when there's a gentleman."


'' Would he be so very much In your
way ? " asked Lady Mildred, turning to
Beauchamp, with just the faintest touch
of disdain in her voice.

Not the least in the world," answered
the young man. " I am very sorry If I
have prevented Lady Bracknell from
taking him out, and next time — if there
is a next time — I'll make a point of requesting
the favour of his company.

But really, I don't ride with Lady
Bracknell very often."

*revels day," said the relentless Sunning
emphatically.

This was a little embarrassing, but
Beauchamp, though young, was a man
of experience, and his serenity was not
easily disturbed. " You don't mean to
say so ! " he exclaimed. 'i'm very much
ashamed of myself, and I'll apologise to
Lady Bracknell the next time I see her.
But that is just the sort of stupid thing
that I am always doing. She good-naturedly
asked me to ride with her one
day, and I suppose I must have kept
on going ever since from force of habit.
I'll tie a knot in my pocket handkerchief
at once, so that I may remember to
forget to go tomorrow."

I don't know whether he was only-anxious
to stifle suspicion, or whether he
still contemplated the possibility of an
ultimate union with Lady Mildred ; but
he made Great efforts to be agreeable to
her during the next quarter of an hour,
and when he took his leave Lord Staines,
who had evidently been alarmed for a
moment, seemed to be quite reassured.

Jim, after we had left the house
together, informed me casually that he
considered the manners and customs of
savages very superior upon the whole, to
those of so-called civilised Christians,
but declined to enter more fully into the
subject, when invited to do so. '' It
doesn't matter ; only that's my opinion,"
he said.

I am not acquainted with the customs

of savages, except by hearsay ; but our
own, I freely admit, might be improved
upon. One very tiresome custom, which,
I fear, has become almost endemic among
us of late, is that of entertaining long-suffering
spectators with tableaux vivants.
No one who has not been concerned in
the getting up of one of these exhibitions
can have any idea of the worry
and trouble that they entail, though a
good many people must be acquainted
with the tedium of witnessing them when
got up. Still, since they are the fashion,
there is of course nothing for It but to
submit to them ; and Lady Bracknell,
who, as I have already mentioned, was
dramatically disposed, must needs have
her tableaux, like everybody else. No
part in them was assigned to me ;

because, as she informed me, with that
laughing candour which, for some reason
or other, plain people are supposed not
to mind, I really was not good-looking
enough ; but I was allowed the privilege
of assisting in the formation of the groups.
Beauchamp, it must be assumed, possessed
the qualification which Nature had
denied to me ; for it was at once decided
that he should have the honour of figuring
in the only tableau of the evening which
his hostess proposed to grace personally ;
that, namely, in which her ladyship, as
Andromeda, with her beautiful bare arms
chained above her head and her bronze
hair rippling down over her shoulders,
was rescued from destruction by a very
Saxon-looking Perseus. I ventured to
suggest that Bracknell might represent

the monster, but this was considered to
be a proposition of doubtful taste, and
as no one else volunteered to undertake
that ungrateful part, we had to have an
appalling creature constructed out of
inanimate materials for the occasion.

If only it had been permissible to make
use of an inanimate Perseus into the
bargain, I should have been spared much
mental wear and tear and a grievous
waste of time ; for Beauchamp declared
that he was physically incapable of standing
on one leg for sixty consecutive
seconds, and it was obvious that unless
he stood upon one leg he would spoil
the whole thing. I had to put him
through a complete course of gymnastics,
and even then it was only by the most
diligent punching and kneading that I

could force him into an attitude which
was not positively grotesque. Whenever
I left his side he, so to speak, tumbled
to pieces instantly. However, in the
long run we achieved as near an approach
to success as could be expected,
and when the representation came off,
this tableau was received with tremendous
applause. I imagine that the majority
of the spectators were lost in admiration
of Andromeda's arms and shoulders and
had no eyes for poor Perseus, who
wobbled perceptibly.

Nevertheless, there were found persons
to notice and remark upon Perseus too,
if not exactly to admire him ; and it
chanced that, on the fall of the curtain,
I was standing within earshot of one of
these. She was an elderly lady, blessed

with three marriageable daughters, and
in that capacity naturally opposed to the
goings on of unscrupulous young matrons
such as Lady Bracknell.

*' It really is a little too bad," she said
to her neighbour ; " and I wonder that
Lord Bracknell allows it. Of course we
know that he is not over-particular, and,
as far as that ores, I dare sav his own
manner of life doesn't give him the right
to be so, but I should have thought that
even he would have seen how outrageous
this kind of thing is, considering that
Mr. Beauchamp is as good as engaged
to his sister. Under the circumstances
it's almost indecent."

I was having a little inward laugh at
the " almost " in the above outburst of
virtuous indignation when I became aware

that some one besides myself, had overheard
it. Leaning against the wall
behind me, was Bracknell, who had not
thought it necessary to be at home intime
to receive his wife's guests, but had
now come in — probably from his club.
From the scowl upon his brow I concluded
that he had been losing money ;
from the brightness of his eyes I feared
that he had been drinking ; and from the
murderous glance which he shot at the
dowager whose speech I have quoted
I gathered that her unvarnished strictures
were not agreeable to him. He
muttered a word or two under his breath
and turned away, leaving me in some
doubt as to whether he was incensed
against his wife or against her critic.
But very shortly afterwards all uncertainty

as to that point was removed from
my mind.

I had been invited to remain for a
quiet supper after the departure of the
general company. Beauchamp and a few-others
who had been similarly favoured
had already gone down to the diningroom,
and I was lingering on the deserted
stage with the fair Andromeda, when
Bracknell suddenly entered and strode
towards us. He either did not notice
my presence or was indifferent to it.

** Hilda," he said, '' you will oblige me
by dropping this ; it has gone far enough.
You think yourself very clever, no doubt ;
but It strikes me that you are in danger
of being a little too clever, for once."

She turned slowly and surveyed him
with calm contempt. 'had you not

better go to bed ? " she asked. '' Perhaps
you may be in a state to explain yourself
in the morning."

Bracknell had the family temper and I
thought for a moment that he was going
to treat us to a display of it ; but possibly
he may have learnt by experience
that storming at his wife was a thankless
task. " I am sober enough now," he
returned quietly, " to tell you that I
don't choose to have Mildred's marriage
put a stop to for your gratification. How
long do you flatter yourself that that
young fool is going to trot about after
you, like a lap-dog ? Till this time next
year ? And what do you suppose will
happen when you begin to bore him ?
You do begin to bore people after a
certain time, I can assure you."

** I dare say that is quite true," replied
Hilda meekly ; '' you ought to know.
Of course I will obey you to the best of
my ability ; but I am afraid I can no
more force Mr, Beauchamp to marry
your sister than I can prevent you from
insulting me before a third person."

At this juncture the third person
executed a strategic movement in the
direction of the door. But Bracknell
intercepted me.

'' You needn't withdraw, Maynard,"
said he with a short lauQ^h. " I've
nothing more to say, and now Ave mayas
well go down and have some supper.
I don't often interfere with her ladyship's
little games, but I believe she
knows that when I do, she must give
them up."

I observed, however, a slight smile
upon her ladyship's lips which convinced
me that, in this instance, she had no intention
at all of giving up her little
game.

END OF VOL. I.

LONDON : RICHARD CLAY & SONS, PRINTERS.

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
or ILLINOIS

V.2L ^

VOL. H.

BY

W. E. NORRIS

IX TWO VOL U M E S
VOL. II

ilouticin
MACMILLAN AND CO.

AND NEW YORK
I 886

All Rights Reserved

bread street hill, london,

Bungay, Suffolk.

MY FRIEND JIM

CHAPTER I.

For some little time after the evening
of the tableaux I did not happen to meet
the Bracknells, so that I could not judge
from personal observation how far Hilda
had obeyed her husband's commands and
dropped Beauchamp, but divers rumours
which reached me pointed to the conclusion
that she had not dropped that
foolish youth at all ; nor indeed had I
supposed for one moment that she

VOL. II. B

intended doing so. It seemed probable
enough that she had been able to convince
Bracknell of the wisdom of a policy
which she had not cared to expound in
my presence, and if he had been brought
to see that his sister's interests and his
own were antagonistic, there could be
very little doubt but that he would acquiesce
In the sacrifice of his sister's interests
with complete philosophy. Jim, who had
returned to London, after a flying visit
to Elmhurst, amused me by an account
of a remonstrance which he had felt it
his duty to address to Lady Bracknell,
and of the manner in which his Intervention
had been received.

Lord Staines doesn't see it," he said
confidentially, " but between ourselves,
it's as certain as anything can be that

she is doing her best to prevent Beauchamp
from proposing to Lady Mildred."

I expressed much surprise, and congratulated
Jim upon his insight into the
crafty ways of feminine diplomacy ; to
which he replied modestly that he believed
he was about as wide awake as
most men nowadays. " One can't mix
long in London society without having
one's eyes opened," he explained; 'rand,
as you know, I have good cause to
distrust Kildare

paused, sighed, and then resumed ;
'' I don't want other people to suffer
through her as I have suffered. I
thought she might perhaps be disposed
to admit that she owed me some trifling
favour by way of reparation for the past ;
so I called upon her the other day and

B 2

appealed to her to leave Beauchamp
alone. It seemed to me that one admirer
more or less could make very little difference
to her, and I couldn't suppose that
she had any deliberate intention of making
Lady Mildred unhappy. At least, that's
what I said to her."

** Are you so sure," I inquired, *' that
the loss of Beauchamp will make Lady
Mildred unhappy ? "

** Oh, yes, I'm afraid so — that is, I
believe so," he answered. '* From different
things that she has said to me, I feel
pretty sure that she would accept him if
he proposed to her ; and after all, why
shouldn't she ? I don't myself think him
particularly attractive, but he is a good
natured fellow, and he isn't bad-looking,
and — well, I suppose there would be

nothing very extraordinary in any girl's
falling in love with him. So, as I tell
you, I made my appeal to Hilda; and 1
wish I hadn't, for it didn't succeed. She
began by denying that she had led Beauchamp
on, giving me to understand that
he was infatuated about her and that she
really couldn't help It. Then, when I
persisted that she could put a stop to his
infatuation very easily If she chose, she
got angry and said that I, at any rate,
ought not to object if Beauchamp proved
faithless. I asked her what she meant —
because really I didn't know — whereupon
she calmly accused me In so many words
of being in love with Lady Mildred
myself ! "

"How insolent!" I exclaimed. "And
how palpably untrue and absurd ! "

"Well, yes," Jim agreed, *' I think it
was rather insolent, and of course it was
untrue. I don't know about the absurdity
of it ; but what does seem to me absurd
is that friendship between a man and a
woman should be considered impossible.
Like a fool as I am, I said so to Lady
Bracknell ; and she immediately turned
round upon me and asked why she wasn't
to be allowed to make a friend of Beauchamp.
That rather shut me up. All I
could say was that I didn't believe she
cared two straws about Beauchamp's friendship
; whereupon she retorted that she
didn't believe in my disinterested friendship
for Lady Mildred. So the dispute
ended in a draw."

Lookers-on see most of the game, and
when one is condemned to be a looker-on

one must endeavour to be satisfied with
that somewhat questionable advantage.
There is, no doubt, a certain satisfaction
and amusement to be derived from understanding
your neighbour's state of mind
better than he himself understands it,
but this is apt to be neutralised by the
consciousness of impotence with which
lookers-on are commonly afflicted. If I
had been a magician, I should have
made everybody happy by transferring
the bulk of Beauchamp's property to
Bracknell for life, with remainder to his
son. Being only a poor literary man
of prudent instincts, I could do no more
than strongly advise Tim to leave London
and turn his attention to the management
of his home farm. And perhaps
it is hardly necessary to add that he

neither took my advice nor thanked me
for it.

It was about this time that I received
a letter from home, informing me that
*good Mr. Turner" was about to pay
a visit to the metropolis ; and closely
following upon the heels of this announcement
came good Mr. Turner himself to
call upon me, it being very evident that
he had been commissioned to inspect and
report upon my humble abode by my
mother, who has an ineradicable conviction
that, when absent from her, I never
attempt to make myself comfortable. Mr.
Turner, urbane and patronising as of old,
dropped in whilst I was sitting over a
late breakfast and was kind enough to
join me in that repast. He remarked
that they had given him nothing but

eggs at his hotel, and eggs he Alas unable
so much as to look, at owing to
chronic derangement of the liver.

I am staying at an hotel," he went
on to say. " Dear Hilda thought it best
that I should not ^o to her. She has
reasons, you understand — good and sufficient
reasons."

I said I was quite sure of that ; and
indeed the reasons in question did not
strike me as being of a recondite
character.

But ]Mr. Turner thought it necessary to
give his version of them. " Bracknell," he
continued, '' is, I am persuaded, both kindhearted
and well-meaning, and would not
hurt my feelings for the world ; but his
habitual companions are — well, not precisely
congenial to me ; and he has

contracted, from associating with them,
a tendency to use words and expressions
which, though possibly uttered in what
I may almost call an innocent spirit, are
such as I might find it my duty as a clergyman
to protest against. Dear Hilda
thinks — and I quite agree with her — that
all risk of unpleasantness should be
avoided, and therefore she has kindly
secured rooms for me in a very well-conducted
hotel. I must remember, however,
to tell them that eggs disagree
with me."

Now I knew very well that Bracknell
might use language fit to make a barges's
hair stand on end before the Reverend
Simeon would dare to uplift his voice in
rebuke ; but I said, with strict adherence
to truth, that I had no doubt he would

find himself more comfortable in his
present quarters than in Wilton Place ;
and he presently remarked, sighing a
Httle, that the only thing he regretted
was being; cut off from the society of his
Grandson.

Had I been under the same roof with
Sunning," he added, rather pathetically,
we could have amused ourselves together
without getting into anybody's way; but
I dare say they will let him come and seeme
when it can be managed."

Poor old Turners adoration of his
grandson was quite upon a level with
that of Lord Staines, and the hide fellow
was fond of him too, although their natures
were so unlike. I don't know why with
advancing years we should become less
tolerant of the infirmities of our elders, but

I am afraid that with most of us it is so.
Sunning was so sharp that he can hardly
have failed to recognise an old donkey in
his maternal grandpa ; but children —
perhaps from having been such a short
time In the world — love those who love
them, and value kindness more than
wisdom.

After Mr. Turner had conferred a few
words of patronising encouragement upon
me (he had a great disdain, tempered by
benevolence, for dwellers in Grub Street),
and after he had ambled away, with his
umbrella under his arm, I began to feel
very sorry for him In his loneliness, and
it occurred to me that I should be doing
an act of true Christian charity by giving
him and the other grandfather a day's
outing with their common descendant.

And, being in such an amiable mood, I
thought I might combine this good deed
with the bestowal of a certain amount of
harmless pleasure upon two other persons,
as well as a fairly-earned holiday upon
myself. So, having concocted my scheme,
I imparted it to Jim in the course of the
day, and he jumped at it with enthusiasm.
We had already agreed to revisit Eton
together some time before the close of the
season ; but to me belongs all the credit
of the happy suggestion that Lord Staines,
Lady Mildred, Sunning, and Mr. Turner
should be added to our party. Jim represented
that he was particularly anxious to
carry out this plan because it would cheer
up Lord Staines, who had been looking
tired and worried of late ; and of course
that may have been his motive. But he

disagreed with me quite sharply when I
said that it would be kind to take the old
gentleman off Lady Mildred's hands fora
day and leave her to enjoy her liberty
in London.

She wouldn't enjoy it at all," he
declared ; *' it would be about the last
thing in the world that she would be
likely to enjoy. Besides, I don't believe
old Staines would go without her. Now,
I do hope you won't put forward that
idea, Harry ; because if you do, the
whole thing is certain to fall through."

So I said that, in that case, I wouldn't
put it forward ; and as both Lady
Mildred and her father received our proposition
favourably, it only remained for
us to beg leave of absence for Sunning
and let Mr. Turner know of the treat

that was in store for him. The Brackets
we did not ask ; because, for one
thing, they would certainly have declined,
and also (which was, perhaps, more to
the purpose) because we didn't want
them.

We all went down from Haddington
together in a saloon carriage, Lord Staines
as brisk as a bee, Mr. Turner benignly
complacent, Sunning dividing his attentions
with strict impartiality between
his two grandfathers, so as to avoid
making either of them jealous, and Lady
Mildred and Jim conversing quietly ina
corner. And if anybody thinks that
it was a cruel sort of kindness to throw
the last-mentioned couple together, I can
only say that the mischief was already
done, and that, in my humble opinion,

when an opportunity of securing a few
hours' happiness, without injury to others,
presents itself, it ought to be unhesitatingly
seized ; because such opportunities
are rather the exception than the rule
in life.

We reached our destination pretty
early in the afternoon ; and since it was
such beautiful hot summer weather that
no old gentleman could possibly be the
worse for being taken out upon the river,
we drove straight to the Brocas. There
we hired a roomy craft, into which we
packed our party. Lady Mildred undertook
to steer; Lord Staines and Mr.
Turner were made comfortable with
cushions on either side of her ; Sunning,
after binding himself by a solemn promise
not to jump about, was permitted

to crawl into the bows, where he lay flat
upon his stomach, as good as gold, the
whole time ; and Jim taking the stroke
oar we pulled them all up to Surly.

I don't know what Jim may have
thought about it, but I confess that tome
the distance appeared to have enormously
increased since the days of my
boyhood. However, we took a good long
rest, which some of us — two of us, I believe
— employed in strolling away across
the grass, while the others sat still and
enjoyed the peace and quietness of it all,
after the turmoil of London ; and then
in the cool of the evening we dropped
leisurely down stream towards Eton once
more. Lord Staines, a little excited by
the influence of those once familiar scenes,
became talkative, and was almost like

VOL. II. c

his old self again. I could hear him
repeating the names of the various landmarks
to Sunning, whom he had prevailed
upon to sit beside him — names
which already sounded a little strangely
even to me, though my acquaintance
with them was so much more recent
than his.

'' That's Athens, where you'll bathe
when you're a big boy ; and Upper Hope
but they won't let you go there till
you've passed. The small boys are sent
to Cuckoo Weir, where the water is apt
to be muddy. Peasoup we used to call
it. You must learn to take headers, my
boy ; I used to be pretty good at it.
The great thing is to have confidence,

and "

** Did you ever take a header off

there, grandpa ? " interrupted the boy,
pointing up to the railway bridge ahead
of us.

Lord Staines had to own that he had
never accomplished quite so great a feat
as that.

'' But father has," Sunning said, in
his eager, Hoping voice, broken by little
gasps. *' He took a header off a bridge
he told me so — and I don't know if
it was that bridge, but it was as high
as — as — oh, ever so high ! And he did
it for a bet— and he said it stung like
fun — and he wouldn't do it again.
But he won his bet."

Did he ? " said the old man, with a
troubled look. *' Ah, I dare say, I daresay.
Don't you bet, my boy ; it's a poor
game. All that," he added, with a wave

C 2

of his hand towards the Great Western
viaduct, '^ is new. It has been put up
lately — since I left."

I suppose he must have left somewhere
about the year 1830. Very likely he had
forgotten, until that casual mention of
Bracknell's name occurred, that it was
to his grandson, not to his son, that he
was talking. After this he was silent
and abstracted for a time ; but cheered
up again when we dined together at
the old " Christopher " and drank to the
memory of former friends in the best
champagne that that establishment could
produce. Probably the memory of Lord
Staines's school-friends was cherished only
by a very small band of survivors ; but
the old man ran over their names and
their exploits, one by one, relating the

merry life that he had led with them
and the astounding breaches of discipline
of which they had been guilty, until at
length Mr. Turner, taking heart of grace,
ventured to doubt whether the doings
described would have been tolerated by
any head-master worthy of his high and
responsible post.

'' My dear fellow," said Lord Staines,
with superb contempt, 'what do you
know about it ? Head-master indeed !
But of course you don't understand
Eton traditions. You were educated at
Harrow, or some such place, weren't
you ? "

But Mr. Turner was flushed with wine,
and did not choose to be sat upon.
Harrowing may be poor sort of creatures
in your opinion, Lord Staines,"

he returned ; '* but at any rate we can
generally show an eleven good enough
to beat yours at cricket." Which was
an extremely rude thing to say, besides
being very false.

I don't know whether the harmony of
the evening might not have been seriously
interfered with by this unexpected onslaught
of the lamb upon the lion, had
not Jim jumped up, saying that if we
were going to take a look round Eton,
we really ought not to lose any more
time. Obviously, a single vehicle could
not contain us all ; so Jim and Lady
Mildred walked on ahead, while the rest
of us packed ourselves into a fly and
were driven as far as the entrance of
the school-yard. Here Lord Staines
insisted upon getting out, and managed,

with the help of my arm and his stick,
to hobble for some distance across the
flag-stones which have been worn smooth
by the passing feet of so many generations.
Mr. Turner and Sunning wandered
away, it was getting late and close upon
lock-up time, so that we had the place
to ourselves.

The old man, who was leaning upon
my arm, paused and looked about him a
little wistfully. I could guess from my
own sensations what his were likely to
be. Everything was so strangely unaltered
! There was the old clock-tower,
looming high and dark in the twilight ;
there was the chapel, with the spaces
between the buttresses where the lower
boys used to play fives sometimes, and
where the head-master used to take up

his position to call " absence ; " in the
middle of the quadrangle, encircled by
his iron railing, stood the Pious Founder,
with sceptre in one hand and orb in the
other, silent and indifferent as of yore ;
but I and my contemporaries, who had
once claimed a sort of property in all
these things, had now neither part nor
lot in them. We were clean swept away
and forgotten, as in a very few years
our successors would be also. One can't,
at such moments, help feeling a certain
tightness about the region of the heart
and a sense of personal insignificance
which may be salutary, but which is
rather painful. But when Lord Staines
spoke, it seemed that his thoughts had
not been occupied with reminiscences of
his own schooldays.

"I recollect' he said, "coming down
here one Election Saturday. It was just
before Bracknell left ; and you and Leigh
were leaving at the same time, you
know. I walked back from Upper Club
with Bracknell, and I remember that we
stopped and talked for a moment just
about the very spot where we are standing
now. He told me he had backed
my horse, Jupiter Tonans, by Thunderer,
for the Lesser, and I warned him that
he had better hedge, because, as I daresay
you are aware, Thunderers never
stay ; and sure enough, Jupiter Tonans
finished third. I thought at the time
that he would have stood a little more
preparation — but no matter. Well, you
know, Maynard, I suspect that what
applies to horses applies pretty much to

ourselves. One hears a good deal about
education and training, and example,
and this, that, and the other ; but when
all's said and done, it's breeding that
has the last word. Like father, like
son. I have been reckless and extravagant
all my life ; he has followed in
my footsteps ; and the upshot of it is
that we're both deuced nearly ruined
now."

I said I was very sorry to hear it.

Lord Staines shook his head. ** Blackwell
ought to have married money. I
always told him so. He chose to marry
the parson's daughter, and it caused a
coolness between us, as you will remember.
I could have overlooked his
imprudence and disobedience ; but, you
see, I didn't think he had behaved well

in the matter — no ; I didn't think he
had behaved well."

*' It doesn't much signify now," I
remarked.

Not much now, perhaps ; but it was
hard upon poor Leigh at the time, and
he felt it more than I should have
expected. He was speaking to me about
it not long since. He is a good fellow,
that ; I wish he had a little more money.
I looked at him and Mildred this afternoon,
and I thought to myself, ' I wish
he had a little more money ! ' Only a
fancy, you know."

I suppose he hasn't nearly enough
money ? " I hazarded.

'' Oh, Lord bless your soul, no ! "
answered Lord Staines. " Nothing like
it ! — nothing like it ! No — she will have

to marry Beauchamp : and, Indeed, she
might do worse. Come, Maynard, we'll
go on and get into the carriage again ;
we haven't much more than time to
catch the train."

So we moved slowly away to Weston's
Yard, where the fly was waiting for us,
and where the other members of our
small party were already assembled.
Jim climbed up on to the box, and we
were driven away to the station. Sunning
falling asleep before half the distance had
been accomplished, and none of us talking
much. It was natural that we should
be a little tired and disinclined for conversation
on the return journey. I myself,
I believe, had a nap in the corner
of the saloon-carriage ; and even if I
had been awake, I could not have

scrutinised the countenances of my fellow-travellers
in that dim light ; but when
we alighted in the full glare of Padding-ton
Station, I could not help noticing
how pale Jim was, and that Lady Mildred's
eyes were suspiciously red.

Lord Staines shook hands with me on
the platform. " Good-night, Maynard,"
he said, "good-night, and thank you forgiving
us all a very happy day."

Poor old fellow ! I think it was the
last happy day of his life. His life is
over now, and I suppose one cannot say
that it was a well-spent one ; yet who
knows the truth about any man's life !
Perhaps, when all secrets are revealed,
it may be found that some of those
whose statues look down upon us in
public places, and whose names are

recorded in history, have a less favourable
account to show than this old nobleman,
who was worldly, and a spendthrift, who
was of little use to the community at
large, who took no active part in politics,
who excelled in nothing, except, to a
limited extent, in the breeding of racehorses
; but who never, to my knowledge,
was guilty of an ungenerous or
dishonourable action, and who, as it
seemed to me, gave away more than he
received both in the way ol money and
affection. He was by no means a show
specimen of the order to which he belonged,
but he possessed some of its
good qualities. The coming democracy
will doubtless be able to exhibit all
these to the world, combined with others
into the bargain ; and in the meantime,

I regret to say that I have more than
once heard Lord Staines spoken of as a
standing argument for the abolition of
hereditary legislators.

I FELT tolerably sure that I should not
have to wait long before receiving a
visit and a full confession from Jim. I
am accustomed to being utilised (if I
may so express myself) as a sort of
waste-paper basket or sustain, into which
my friends shoot the cares, anxieties,
loves, fears and the like, which they cannot
keep to themselves, but which they
often hesitate to confide to those nearer
and dearer to them. One Is glad to be
useful in any capacity, however humble.

and I cannot disguise from myself that my
great value lies in the patience and attention
with which I listen to what is told
to me. It is true that I am frequently
asked for advice, and sometimes give it ;
but I cannot at this moment recall a
single instance in which it has been
acted upon ; except, indeed, when it has
chanced to coincide with the views of
my confidant. The only advice that I
could possibly offer to Jim must of
necessity be so unpalatable that I determined
not to bother him with it. If —
as seemed almost certain — Lady Mildred
and he had avowed their mutual love
down at Eton, the hopelessness of that
love must be sufficiently obvious to both
of them to stand in need of no emphasising
from me ; and I thought I might

VOL. II. D

safely confine myself to expressions of
sincere regret. When, however, Jim duly
presented himself at my chambers, his
avowal did not prove to be in all
respects what I had anticipated.

Harry, old fellow," he began, after
he had cast himself down upon my sofa
and had assumed a most woebegone air,
** I've lost my self-respect."

*' I shall be very pleased to assist you'
in looking about for it," I replied cheerfully,
" and I dare say, between us, we
shall manage to discover it again. It
was mislaid, I presume, somewhere in
Windsor or Eton on the afternoon or
evening of the 20th instant ? "

He nodded. 'well yes; I suppose
so. At any rate, I wasn't quite certain
of the loss until then. Of course, with

your sharp eyes, you saw long ago how
matters were going with me ; but I give
you my honour that I didn't. Not that
it would have made any difference if I
had ; for one can't help these things. If
you had asked me, any time during the
last six years, whether I could ever love
another woman as I loved the one whom
I was once so nearly marrying, I should
have laughed at you. Yet that is what
has happened to me ; and I confess that it
makes me feel a little uneasy and ashamed."
I could not see why a man who has
remained faithful all his life to a woman
who has deceived him and thrown him
over should have any particular right to
respect himself for being such a dolt,
and I said so ; but Jim observed that
I didn't seem quite to catch his meaning.

D 2

'' I owe nothing to Hilda," he said,
and it stands to reason that if one has
been jihed, one is free. It isn't to her
that I have been untrue ; it's to myself.
I'm too stupid to explain myself; but
six years is a longish time, you know,
and to find myself madly in love again,
after having been quite positive for six
years that that was the one sensation
which I never could possibly experience
a second time, is a little upsetting. It
makes me feel that I am not the man I
took myself for, and also that I have
been a most stupendous fool."

'' You have indeed, my dear fellow,"
I agreed, with ready sympathy.

Yes, because, now that I look back
upon it all, I am convinced that I never
was really in love with Hilda. I thought

I was, but It seems to have been a
gigantic mistake from first to last ; and
what sort of opinion can one have of
anybody who can make such mistakes
as that ? "

Be comforted," I replied, " your case
Is not without numerous precedents, and
so far as you have stated it, it seems
to me to be one for plenary absolution.
At the same time, if you are so very
anxious to frame an indictment against
yourself, I think that might be managed
without going so far afield. I don't
blame you for falling in love with Lady
Mildred, for that you couldn't help ; but,
since you must know as well as I do that
you can't marry her, it might perhaps
have been a little more considerate not
to tell her that you loved her."

'good Lord!" ejaculated Jim; "you
don't suppose I have told her, do you ?
Why, I never knew it myself until the
other day, down at Eton, when the truth
flashed upon me all of a sudden. It
may seem very ridiculous to you ; but
I assure you that up to that moment I
had been under the impression that I
only cared for her as a friend. And
it is only as a friend that she thinks
of me''

'' Really?" said I, somewhat staggered
by this announcement. '' Then — excuse
my curiosity ; but what made her eyes so
red after you and she had been talking
together ? "

** Her eyes were red because she had
been crying," answered Jim curtly.

He looked so savage that I did not

like to press him with further inquiries :
but he resumed by and by of his own
accord : '' She had been telling: me about
her family affairs, and a nice mess they
seem to have got into I There is no
mducina- Lord Staines to economise.
He has left off racing ; but I believe
that is the only expense that he has put
down ; and of course he has to support
the Bracknells. In point of fact, I didn't
come here to speak to you about muse
and Lady mildred, because that it is a
perfectly hopeless business and neither
you nor anybody else can help me : but
I'm troubled in my mind about Bracknell.
He has been very kind and pleasant tome
since I have been back ; but I know

he is in a sea of difficulties and "

I expected this," I interrupted, in

some vexation. *' So much for his promise
! Of course he has been borrowing
money of you, and he is just about as
likely to repay you as if he were a South
American Republic. You may as well
make up your mind that you will never
see that money again."

*' Do let a man finish his sentence,"
remonstrated Jim. 'ein the first place,
he hasn't borrowed a shilling of me,
and in the second, it wouldn't distress
me in the least if he had borrowed a
thousand pounds. But do you know,
Harry, sometimes I am half afraid that
Bracknell is a scoundrel."

He said this so hesitatingly and with
such a look of anxious deprecation on
his honest face that I had not the heart
to tell him how extremely probable it was

that his apprehensions were well founded,
although I could not go so far as to
meet him with the contradiction which
he evidently hoped for. So I only begged
him to be more explicit.

'' I suppose you know," he said, '' that
Bracknell has been several times upon
the brink of a smash, and that his father
has paid his debts over and over again.
Lord Staines Is the kind of man who
would cheerfully give away ninety nine
pounds If he had only a hundred left In
the world, and he seems to have gone on
meeting these periodical demands without
a murmur, until one fine day he discovered
that he couldn't raise another
five-pound note by hook or by crook.
Then he took to his bed and said he
was going to die. Bracknell wanted a

lot of money — how much it was Lady
Mildred doesn't know, but she thinks it
was a very large sum — to save him from
immediate bankruptcy ; and the poor
old man was so cut up about it that he
almost went off his head. He declared
that he was the only person to blame ;
that he had squandered money which
ought to have been saved for his son ;
that he had brought Bracknell up to be
extravagant and was bound to see him
through, and so forth ; and when he was
in the midst of his despair, as luck would
have it, Alfred Beauchamp came in to
see him. *' I suppose," added Jim, with
a touch of reluctance, " that Beauchamp
must be a good fellow. Anyhow, he insisted
upon lending his uncle the money ;
and so "

'* And so Lord Staines rose from his
bed and promptly forgot all about the
matter," I suggested, as Jim came to a
halt.

*' No ; not exactly that. He told Beauchamp
frankly that he didn't think there
was much prospect of his ever being
able to discharge his debt, but that —
that in short he wouldn't so much mind
owing the money to his son-in-law as
to his nephew. Do you see ? "

I could not help laughing at this
amazing method of cancelling a liability,
which assuredly would never have entered
into the head of any human being
but Lord Staines. " I can't say that
I do see," I replied. '' Fathers don't,
as a rule, expect to be handsomely paid
for allowing their daughters to be taken

off their hands ; on the contrary, it is
they who are expected to make settlements
upon their daughters."

*' Yes, but the husband makes settlements
too ; and it appears that Beauchamp
was to deduct this sum from the
amount that he would otherwise have
settled upon Lady Mildred. Most likely
the fact of the matter was that he was
overflowing with money, and that he was
a good-natured sort of chap, and that he
was glad to hold out a helping hand to
his uncle. Whether he was really anxious
to marry his cousin at that time or not
I can't make out ; perhaps it was only
to pacify the old man that he said
he was. But he certainly wasn't in
any hurry to change his condition. He
begged Lord Staines not to mention the



subject for another year, because he had
made arrangements to go off to Newfoundland
and Canada for salmon-fishing
and couldn't tell how long he might be
away, so Lady ?mildred never heard a
word about it until a few weeks ago,
although of course she suspected that it
was Beauchamp who had got her father
out of his difficulties, and she couldn't
help knowing that her people wanted
her to marry the man. When she met
him again in the beginning of the season
he paid her a great deal of attention,
and everything seemed to be going
smoothly until Lady Bracknell, for reasons
best known to herself, took it into
her head to put a stop to the affair.
You must have seen how easy she has
found it to do that. Everybody has seen

it, except Lord Staines, who was frightened
at . first, but was quite reassured
after Bracknell had promised to make
his wife drop Beauchamp."

'' Bracknell knows about this curious
money transaction, then ? " I asked.

•* He knows now. His father thought
it best to tell him when Hilda's game
became evident ; and that is what makes
me afraid that he isn't as straight as he
ought to be. Because Lady Bracknell
hasn't dropped the man ; and when you
come to think of it, it is clearly to Blackwell's
interest that Beauchamp should
remain single."

That was undeniable, but what interested
me more than Bracknell's probable
bad faith was the singular attitude
assumed by Jim, who seemed to be not

only prepared but anxious to give up the
girl of his heart to Beauchamp. I ventured
to express a Httle of the surprise
that I felt — which had the unexpected
effect of making him very angry. What,
he wanted to know, did I take him for ?
And as I made no reply, being unable
to hit upon one which should be at the
same time truthful and flattering, he went
on to explain that true love (a sentiment
of which I was evidently ignorant) is
in its nature disinterested ; that the true
lover desires the happiness of the beloved
object, not his own ; and further that,
after what had passed between Lord
Staines and Beauchamp, Lady ]mildred's
marriage with the latter was the only
conceivable means of averting disgrace
from her family.

"As to the nature of true love," I answered,
'' I will bow at once to your
superior knowledge, although my own
limited opportunities of judging would
have led me to think otherwise. But
with regard to these subtleties about the
disgrace which threatens the house of
Henley I confess that I can neither
follow you nor agree with you. Beauchamp,
it. seems, has lent money to Lord
Staines, and if you say that Lord Staines
or his successor is bound in honour to
refund the money eventually and to pay
interest upon it in the meantime, I am
quite with you. But when you assert
that honour can only be satisfied by Lady
Mildred's marrying, against her will, a
man who doesn't want to marry her, you
really do get a little beyond my depth."

Who told you that it would be
against her will ?" asked Jim.

** My dear Jim," I returned, with excusable
impatience, '' am I an absolute
idiot ? "

He did not reply in the negative with
that promptitude which I should have
expected.

"■ N — no," he said hesitatingly, after a
pause, '' but you may be mistaken. So,
of course, may I ; only I don't think I
am. You see, I couldn't ask her pointblank
whether she loved the man, could
I ? All I know is that she had made
up her mind to marry him if he asked
her, that she thinks it her duty to marry
him, and that she is awfully distressed
about Bracknell's behaviour. I haven't
such a bad opinion of Bracknell as you

VOL. II. E

have. My belief is that, if matters were
put plainly before him, he would see what
a dirty business this is and would refuse
to have anything more to do with it.
And I've a great mind to look him up
and tell him what I think."

I endeavoured to dissuade my friend
from taking this uncalled-for step ; I
represented to him, In the prettiest language
at my command, that he would
do far better to mind his own business,
and that if he insisted upon meddling
with what did not concern him, he would
only get rapped over the knuckles for
his pains ; but, as I mentioned at the
beginning of this chapter, very few
people are wise enough to act upon my
advice. Jim assured me that he did not
in the least mind being rapped over the

knuckles, that he intended to do what he
was pleased to call '' the straight thing,"
without regard to personal consequences,
and that, for the rest, he was far too
unhappy already to be made either more
or less so by Bracknell's displeasure.

So I let him go, without attempting
to comfort him about Lady Mildred, or
telling him what was my own belief with
regard to her affections. It would not,
I imagine, have made him any happier
to know that she was In all probability
as unhappy as he, and the prospect of
this love-affair reachlnor a successful issue
was so very slight that it seemed best
to let it die of inanition, as all love-affairs
will, if only sufficient time be allowed
them.

E 2

iiVERSir/ OF lUJNOlS

Not long after Jim had left me, I
walked down to the club to glance
through the evening papers, sicut meus
est mos, and finding my favourite armchair
by the window vacant, I settled
myself comfortably in It and took up
the St. James s Gazette. The political
article did not look very interesting ; so
I skipped It and went on to the next,
which was printed in smaller type, and
was headed '' Infants in the Saddle."
'*A much-needed warning to parents,"

it began, *' will, we may hope, be conveyed
by the sad accident to Lord Bracknell's
child which we report elsewhere. The
wonder is that such accidents are not of
more frequent occurrence."

I read no farther, but hurriedly turned
over the leaves of the paper until I came
upon the following paragraph —

Accident IN Rotten Row. — Lord
Sunning, the only child of Lord Blackwell,
and grandson of the Earl of
Staines, was riding in Rotten Row this
morning, attended by a groom, when
his pony suddenly became unmanageable
and bolted. The animal galloped for a
considerable distance, then swerved and
fell, throwing its rider with great violence
against the iron railings. Lord Sunning,
who was rendered insensible by the fall,

was at once removed to his father's residence
In Wilton Place, where we regret to
say that he lies in a precarious condition,
having, it is feared, sustained incurable
injuries."

I ordered a hansom and started at once
for Wilton Place, hoping against hope
that the newspaper report might turnout
to be an exaggeration. There are
calamities against which the reason seems
to revolt. " Such a thing cannot be
true," one is often inclined to say to
oneself ; *' what would be the good of
it ? " My dear mother maintains that
these trials are sent to us to test our
faith, and it is not for me to dispute the
truth of her assertion ; yet I could not
help feeling that if poor little Sunning
was to be cut off in the bright morning

of his life for such a purpose, the sacrifice
would probably be made in vain. Of all
those who loved him there was not one
who was likely to lay that lesson to heart,
unless indeed it might be old Daddy
Turner, who, I suppose, held religious
convictions of a kind. Then I remembered
what splendid constitutions all the
Henleyss had, and that Bracknell, as a
boy, was for ever tumbling about and
escaping scot-free from accidents which
would have killed anybody else ; so that
by the time that I had reached my destination,
I had almost persuaded myself
that this would prove to be a case of
concussion of the brain which would
leave no permanent mischief behind it.
But before the butler who opened the
door for me had spoken a word, I knew

that there was no hope. In a few
moments I had heard all about it. The
great doctors had been and had gone
away again, saying that nothing could
be done. Sentence of death had been
pronounced, and the boy would hardly
live until morning. He was conscious
now, and had no pain, the butler said.
Perhaps his lordship would see you,
sir," he added, in a low voice ; '' he's
bearing up wonderful."

I entered the hall, where several servants
were standing about, and one of
them went to tell Bracknell that I was
there. At the foot of the staircase sat a
man in groom's dress, bending forward,
with his elbows on his knees and a look
of such blank despair upon his face that
I could not refrain from making an effort

to comfort him, "It wasn't your fault, you
know, James," I said — stupidly enough.

The man lifted his heavy eyes for a
moment. *' His lordship spoke terrible
'ard to me, sir," he said.

I could well believe it. Men like
Bracknell are apt to be cruel and unjust
in their grief, and to attack the first
person who chances to cross their path ;
but to them, in their turn, it is an injustice
to remember \\T)rds spoken at such
times. I was endeavouring to say as
much to the unfortunate James, who,
however, did not appear to hear me,
when Bracknell came down the stairs,
with a slow, steady step. Except that
his usually florid complexion had become
perfectly colourless, he showed no traces
of emotion. He waited until he was

close beside me, and then said, quite
quietly, '' Sunning has broken his back,
Maynard."

All of a sudden the groom burst outcrying.
I don't know anything more
painful and pathetic to witness than the
unrestrained weeping of those who belong
to what we call the lower orders.
It is all very well to say that they feel
less deeply than we, who have been
schooled to control ourselves ; but sometimes
I doubt whether they really do
feel less deeply, and whether, after all,
we have much right to consider ourselves
superior to them because, as we
assume, our sorrow outlasts theirs. For
in truth all sorrow is short-lived enough.

Bracknell glanced at the man, knitting
his brows. "James," he said, *' I believe

I blamed you just now. I was wrong :
you were not to blame. I beg your
pardon, James'"

He spoke in a hard, level voice. He
had made a mistake and apologised for
it ; but he was not, apparently, moved.
Presently he turned away, taking me by
the arm and saying, *' Come up stairs
and see the boy. There is ,no more
sufferance now : but he is dvin^;. all the
same. Won't last through the night,
they say."

I followed him up the stairs and across
the landing. wondering a little at his
calmness. But with his hand upon the
lock of a door, from the other side of
which came an audible murmur of voices,
he faced about abruptly, his eyes blazing
and his white face set.

'^ Damn that woman ! " he exclaimed.
She promised me that the boy should
never ride alone again, and she has
killed him rather than have one of her
cursed flirtations interrupted."

I caught him by the arm to stop him,
for his voice rang through the silent
house ; but he guessed what I was afraid
of, and broke into an odd, savage sort of
a laugh. '' Oh, don't distress yourself,"
he said ; *' it's all one to her — she doesn't
care ! "

Then we went into Sunning's room.

The poor little man was lying flat on
his back where they had laid him. His
cheeks were as white as marble, and his
features were 'pinched and sharp, but of
all the crowd of faces which I saw confusedly
as I entered, his was the most

cheerful. Lady Bracknell was sitting by
the window, pressing her handkerchief
to her lips. She looked frightened, I
thought. Beside her stood Jim, who, I
suppose, had come to the house upon the
errand that we know of, and had been
admitted. Lady Mildred was there too,
and Sunning's old nurse, and Lord
Staines, and Mr. Turner ; but none of
them spoke to me, nor did I venture todo
more than glance at them.

Sunning had his dog, a little blue
Skye, on the bed beside him. He held
out his left hand to me, for his right arm
was crushed and powerless, and smiled.
We had been friends — more so than I
have had any occasion to mention in the
course of this narrative — and I think he
was glad to see me. He wished me to

have the dog, he said ; and I was to
take him away with me, please, because
he wouldn't lie still much longer, *' and
he hasn't had his walk to-day." He
had a few last words to say to me, but
they were only a few ; for his strength
was evidently ebbing fast, and I could
see that his childish . brain was preoccupied.
His eyes kept wandering from
one member of the group to another,
but always rested longest upon his
father, whose broad shoulders were
turned towards us, and whose elbow I
touched at last, feeling sure that the boy
wanted to speak to him.

Bracknell wheeled round hastily, and
dropped on his knees beside the bed.
'* Yes, my boy," he said ; " what is it ? "

'father," whispered Sunning, 'you

won't have Sheila shot, will you ? I
don't want Sheila to be shot."

His eyes grew very large and piteous,
and there was a quiver about the corners
of his mouth. No doubt he had had
some experience of his father's passionate
nature and feared that, in a fit of unreasoning
fury, he might take vengeance
upon the irresponsible cause of his son's
death.

But Bracknell answered gruffly, '* No,
my boy, nobody shall harm her. I'll
swear that."

Sunning gave a little sigh of relief,
looked curiously at his father for a moment,
and then turned his head towards
Lord Staines, who was sitting motionless
on the other side of the bed, in what
seemed like a state of nerveless stupor.

Never mind, gran," he said ; '* it doesn't
hurt." And then, " You're so awfully old,
too, gran — you'll come soon."

Lord Staines made no answer, but Mr.
Turner rose and approached, wiping the
tears away from his foolish old eyes with
a large silk pocket-handkerchief. "We
shall go to you ; but you will not come
back to us, Sunning," he began. I don't
care to quote the rest of his remarks.
He was a cleric of the old-fashioned
school, who had not, I should Imagine,
occupied himself much with the subject
of eschatology. It was, perhaps, right
that he should give utterance to his
views, which, I am sure, were at any
rate sincere ; but those stereotyped
phrases about the New Jerusalem and
white-winged angels and golden harps.

enunciated with a certain pomposity, despite
the occasional quavering of the speaker's
voice, jarred somewhat upon my ears, as
I dare say they did upon those of several
other persons present. Sunning listened
patiently. Thank God, he had not many
sins, even of a childish kind, to reproach
himself with. He had always been a good
boy, as well as a brave one, and had no
need to dread the unknown future, be
that what it may.

After a time, he beckoned to me and
put the dog into my arms. " Good-bye,
Blue," he whispered. The dog licked
his face and he patted its rough head, and
then for the first time two great tears
welled up into his eyes and brimmed
over.

I bent over him and kissed him, and

VOL. II. F

then I picked up the dog and went away.
I had no right to intrude upon the scene
which I could see was close at hand ; and
besides, to tell the truth, I couldn't bear
it any longer. Many sadder things thana
child's death are happening in the world
every hour. One may look back upon it
dispassionately now and say that it was
perhaps well that our poor little Sunning
should have been taken from us — that if
he had lived, he might not have been
happy ; that he would almost certainly have
been badly brought up ; that he would
have succeeded to a diminished property ;
that he would very likely have followed
in the steps of his father and grandfather,
with less means at his disposal,
and consequently greater temptations than
theirs, and so forth ; but the fact remains

that he was the brightest and most promising
child I have ever known, and that,
humanly speaking, his life was cut short
because his mother did not choose to
take the trouble of looking after him.

F 2

Everybody expected that the loss of
his grandson would be poor old Lord
Staines's death blow. He himself was
of that opinion, and at first refused to
leave his bed, saying that he had now
nothing to live for. But perhaps, upon
further thought, he may have remembered
that he had still certain matters to attend
to before quitting a troublesome world,
or perhaps he may have been too old
and worn out to die of grief. At any
rate, he did not die, nor did his health

appear to suffer, although I believe he
was never seen to smile again after
Sunning's little coffin was laid in the
family vault at Staines Court.

Lady Bracknell did not appear at the
funeral. It was believed — or at all events
it was stated — that she felt unable to face
so cruel an ordeal ; but the truth, as I
afterwards heard upon excellent authority,
was that she was afraid to venture within
reach of her husband, who had ordered
her away from him immediately after the
boy's death, assuring her that he was
not master of himself and that she would
do well to keep out of his sight for sometime
to come. So she took him at his
word and fled down to the country, to
the house of I forget what friend, who
undertook to comfort her in her affliction.

Bracknell remained in London, and, as
I was told, continued to go to his club
every day, to gamble heavily and to
drink hard.

The uses of adversity are doubtless
sweet to some people ; but there are
others to whom adversity is neither
sweet nor useful, and Bracknell belonged
to the latter category. His was essentially
a fighting nature, and so long ashe
had anybody or anything to fight
against his blood was likely to be kept
in a tolerably healthy state ; but he was
not a man who could be benefited by
defeat or disaster. Passionate, headstrong,
and spoilt by the continuous prosperity
of his youth, he resented the various
misfortunes of his more mature years
as so many affronts directed at him by

Heaven, and when this crowning calamity
descended upon him, avenged himself by
going over to the devil. I don't mean
to say that he put the case before himself
in those terms ; but I believe they express
pretty accurately what his feeling was.
I called upon him several times, but he
was always out ; and one day when I
chanced upon him in the street, he told
me roughly that I need not trouble to
look him up again.

*' Kindly meant, I've no doubt," he said ;
but I should be very much obliged to
my friends If they wouldn't be so — &c.,
&c. — officious. When I want to be
condoled with I'll let them know."

After that I could only leave him to
himself. Even if he had been willing to
listen to me, I should have been puzzled

to discover any plausible form of consolation
; and certainly I should not have hit
upon that selected by my mother, who,
in the overflowing kindness of her heart,
wrote him a long letter, in which she
reminded him that, among other blessings,
he still possessed his wife. I
believe she was afterwards a little
ashamed of having taken this bold step,
and would never have let me know of it
had she been able to resist showing me
Bracknell's reply, which was brief and
pithy : —

"• Dear Mrs. Maynard, — I told your son
the other day that I didn't want to be
condoled with ; and I don't. But I must
say that I hardly expected to be congratulated.
Lady Bracknell is not with

me just now, or she would, I am sure,
desire me to thank you for speaking of
her as a blessing. It Is probably the
first time In her life that she has been
called by that name, and I should think
It would be the last.

'' Sincerely yours,

"■ Bracknell."

My mother shook her head at this.
He ought not to speak so of his wife,"
she said. And when I brought forward
certain excuses on Bracknell's behalf (I
would not shock her by mentioning all
those that might have been mentioned,
nor would she have believed In them If
I had) she only shook her head the more,
telling me that I had no realising sense
of the sacredness of marriage.

Whether I deserved that rebuke or not
is of small consequence ; but I might
fairly have retorted that my dear mother,
for her part, was a little too sublimely
indifferent to the worldly side of that
contract, and that by her present conduct
.she was in danger, not only of making
two people more unhappy than there was
any occasion for, but of getting herself
into serious trouble as well. However,
I doubt whether anything that I could
have said would have prevented her from
asking Lady Mildred to come in to tea
every other day, and then casually getting
Jim to meet her. She had made up her
mind that this couple ought to be married,
and even that it was the will of Heaven
that they should be married. It would
have been too much to expect that the

will of Heaven should be set aside to
please Lord Staines or i\Ir. Beauchamp ;
the latter of whom, as my mother pointed
out, might have proposed long ago, if he
had chosen, but had preferred to go off
to Norway and catch salmon.

And so, during that summer, our house
was made the scene of what, to a commonplace
person like myself, wore very
much the appearance of clandestine love-making.
I don't know what Jim and
Lady INIildred talked about while they
wandered up and down our lawn together.
They did not honour me with their confidence
; and indeed I was sorry to observe
a decided inclination on their part, as
well as on that of my mother, to send
me to Coventry. Did they think, I
wonder, that I should betray them to

Lord Staines ? They ought to have
known me better ; but I ani more or
less accustomed to being misjudged by
those who ought to know me better ; and
I may add that I have never been deterred
by that circumstance from doing to them
as I would be done by.

That this is no vain boast will be seen
from the tone which I took up when
Lord Staines's suspicions were at length
aroused, and when he sent for me to
pour them into my ear. It was on a
fine autumn day that, in obedience to his
summons, I walked up to Staines Court
and was shown into the library, where
he now sat from morning to night, and
where, in spite of the warmth of the
weather, a fire was burning. He looked
very feeble and broken, bending forward

in his chair and holding up a thin,
trembling hand to the blaze.

Maynard," he said, " I want you, like
a good fellow, to speak a word of warning
to your friend Leigh. I would rather
not speak myself, because, as you know,
he has been caused trouble and disappointment
by our family already, and I
should be sorry to seem unfriendly to
him. So will you just tell him as kindly
as you can that it won't do ? I see
more than perhaps you young folks
suppose, and of course you know what
I allude to. It won't do, my dear
Maynard. I am sorry for it ; but it
won't do''

'' Lord Staines," I answered boldly, ''' I
am not going to undertake any such
commission. I can quite understand

your anxiety to keep the Beauchamp
property in the family, and if you can
get the persons principally concerned todo
as you wish, I dare say it will be
in some respects a good thing ; but I
don't choose to be a party to any scheme
of that kind. My point of view is not
the same as yours. What may become
of the Beauchamp property is nothing tome
; whereas it is a good deal to me
that Jim Leigh should have what he
wishes for. I believe that Lady Mildred
and he are attached to each other, and,
that being so, I hope they will stand up
for themselves and marry."

I fully expected that this audacious
harangue would call forth an explosion
of wrath ; but my expectations were not
fulfilled. Lord Staines only sighed wearily

and said : '' God knows I care little
enough for money or lands now ! ]daytime
is almost up, and I suppose Bracknell
will be the last of our name. Against
Leigh I haven't a word to say ; only, as
I told you before, it won't do. Mildred
must marry Beauchamp. I am under
obligations to him which can't be discharged
in any other way ; and he will
be a kind husband to her. We won't
argue the point, if you please."

He will not be a husband of her
choosing," I made so bold as to observe,
despite this prohibition.

"You don't know what you are talking
about," returned the old man fretfully.
'' The thing must be, and there's
no use in discussing it. If you don't
see your way to speaking to your

friend, I must speak to Mildred, that's
all."

I said nothing about this conversation
to those whom it concerned, and whether
Lord Staines carried out his intention of
remonstrating with Lady Mildred or not
I cannot tell. Very likely he did not,
for I fancy that he shrank from distressing
her, and he may have thought it
needless to take active steps before
Beauchamp's return from Norway.

No news with regard to that event
reached my ears, and it was not until
late in the autumn that I was made
aware of its having taken place, by
encountering Beauchamp himself at a
country house in the north of England,
where I had been invited to spend a few
days. It struck me that our meeting

was not a source of unalloyed satisfaction
to him. There was even a sort of
shamefacedness in his demeanour which
I could not at first account for, but
which explained itself at dinner-time,
when Lord and Lady Bracknell made
their appearance among several other
guests who had arrived late in the afternoon,
and when her ladyship exchanged
meaning glances with my young friend,
after according him a conventionally
polite greeting.

The Bracknell manage, which for a
time had been threatened with disruption,
had been set going once more (by
the kindly intervention of friends, as I
was informed), and was, to all appearance,
being conducted upon much the
same principles as heretofore. At all

VOL. II. G

events, Bracknell seemed to look with
absolute indifference upon the renewal of
the flirtation which he had once professed
himself determined to check. The
past few months had worked a very
perceptible change in him. He had
grown stouter ; his complexion had become
pasty and his eyelids heavy, and a
few grey hairs had appeared about his
temples. His manners, too, had distinctly
deteriorated. He was bored, and
did not attempt to disguise the fact ;
moreover, he displayed a contradictious
and quarrelsome tendency which evidently
caused some anxiety to our
hostess.

As for Lady Bracknell, she was
brilliant and radiant. Her black dress
and jet ornaments threw up the dazzling

whiteness of her skin ; she looked as if
she had not a care in the world ; and if,
as I suspect, the other ladies were
whispering to each other what a heartless
wretch the woman was, I can only
say that in my humble opinion they had
a very good right to do so.

Probably neither their remarks nor my
opinion were matters of much moment to
her. She was a cold-hearted and calculating
woman, but she was capable, no
doubt, of enjoying herself after her own
fashion, and few things can be more
pleasant than to indulge in your favourite
pastime, while making it subserve a
definite, practical end. This, for the
time being, appeared to be Lady Blackwell's
enviable lot. The subjugation of
Beauchamp was complete. He remained

G 2

by her side the whole evening through ;
he scarcely took his eyes off her for a
moment ; and it may be assumed that he
had no idea of the sorry spectacle that
he presented to lookers-on. Some of
these were very severe in their strictures
upon him and upon his companion.
More than one lady openly declared that
she would not have Lady Bracknell in
her house ; but I knew very well (and
so, I doubt not, did her ladyship), that
they would ask her to their houses, and
furthermore, that they would ask
Beauchamp to meet her. I have often
wondered why ladies to whom scandals
are abhorrent should act in this way ;
and such is my simplicity that I am
wondering still, in spite of many keys to
the puzzle which have been offered tome.

But that it is their habit so to do
will hardly be denied.

Hilda, then, without any fear of being
ostracised, gave free play to her peculiar
talents and spent a delightful evening.
It would have been amusing and instructive
to watch her, if one had not detested
her so cordially. She had a second
string to her bow in the shape of a
certain Comte de Vieuzac, a French
attached, whom I had met several times
in Wilton Place. De Vieuzac was one
of those semi-elicited Gauls who o^et
their clothes made in London, whose
talk is of horses and shooting, and who
discuss sport with a solemnity far exceeding
that of their models. Being young,
by no means bad-looking, and full of
that confidence in the irresistible nature

of his charms which is the very last
thing that his countrymen can bring
themselves to part with, he most likely
flattered himself that he had made a
conquest of Lady Bracknell, and it was
easy to see that he found Beauchamp a
good deal in the way. That Beauchamp
reciprocated his sentiments with interest
was not less obvious ; and while one of
the young men assumed an aggravating
supercilious mien and the other scowled
savagely, Hilda, arbitress of the contest,
sat between them, displaying her white
teeth and gently swaying a black ostrich-feather
fan.

In nearly all human situations, tragedy
and comedy are blended, so that 
and Jean-qui-rit may comment
upon them with equal complacency and

an equal half-measure of truth. Sometimes
one feels disposed to take the side
of the laughing, sometimes that of the
weeping philosopher. In the exhibition
to which Lady Bracknell was so kindly
treating us I suppose the comic element
may be said to have predominated, and
perhaps that was why I was unable to
see anything funny in it. Somehow or
other, the sight of that smiling, contented,
selfish woman, playing off her admirers
one against the other, infuriated me. I
could not get the memory of poor little
Sunning out of my head while I watched
her ; it seemed to me that of all forms of
depravity the most odious is that which
obliterates the natural, animal instinct of
maternal love. And my soul being stirred
within me by the spectacle of the power

possessed and exercised by that woman,
who, if she had had her deserts, would
have been picking oakum in Millbank
Penitentiary, I could at last contain
myself no longer, but, rising from my
sequestered corner, crossed the room,
with the intent to do a truly silly
thing.

I made straight for the sofa on which
Bracknell was sitting apart, with his hands
in his pockets, and asked him whether
he didn't want to smoke.

Of course I do," he growled. "Why
the dickens don't these people go to
bed ? "

'* We will give them the slip," said I,
for I was bent upon having a few words
in private with him. *' Now is our time,
while nobody is looking."

So I got him away to the smoking-room,
and, as soon as we had lighted
our cigars, plunged, head first, into the
middle of my subject. " Bracknell," said
I, "do you or do you not intend
Beauchamp to marry your sister ? "

I have mentioned already that Blackwell's
manners had deteriorated. He
frowned heavily and asked me what the
devil that was to me.

'' I will tell you," I answered. " You
must admit, I think, that you haven't

behaved very well to Jim Leigh "

'' Good Lord ! " interrupted Bracknell,
'rare you going back to that old story
again ? Why, man, I made him an
apology when he reappeared in London
last summer! What more would you
have '^ I can assure you that I repent

from the bottom of my heart of having
deprived him of Miss Hilda Turner."

'' I don't doubt it," I reeked ; " I only
meant to remind you that you owe him
a good turn. I can't go into particulars,
because we shall have the other men inhere
presently, but the long and the short
of it is that Lady Mildred and he are in
love with each other."

''Oh, indeed ! " said Bracknell. "Well
really I don't care."

Does that mean," I inquired, " that
you won't oppose their marriage ? "

It means," answered he, " that I shall
not bother myself about the matter, one
way or the other. Jim had better fight
it out with the governor."

I ought, I suppose, to have been contented
with that. I had not behaved

with my usual circumspection in introducing
the subject at all, and I had
received an assurance which, so far as it
went, should have been entirely satisfactory
to me. But, being so exasperated
with Hilda, and being also curious to
learn how far Hilda's absolute lack of
principle was shared by her husband, I
must needs proceed to remark :

You once told Lady Bracknell in my
presence that you would not permit her
to entice Beauchamp away from your
sister. You have changed your mind as
to that, it appears."

Bracknell rose slowly from his chair,
advanced to that in which I was secreted,
and placed a heavy hand on each of my
shoulders, looking straight into my eyes.
'' Maynard," said he, " you aren't a bad

sort of fellow, taking you all round ; but
you're just as cheeky now as you used
to be at Eton, and I may as well tell
you at once that I'm not in the humour
to put up with cheek. Do you remember
my giving you a licking once in Kate's
Lane ? "

'' No," I replied, '' I do not. I remember
your hitting me and I remember
kicking you on the shins, and I remember
old Jim Leigh coming between us."

'' Well," said Bracknell, '' I dare say it
was no bad thing for you that Jim Leigh
happened to be handy. I didn't want to
thrash you then and I don't want to
thrash you now ; but if you take upon
yourself to interfere with my private
affairs a second time, by the Lord, I'll
knock your head off your shoulders ! "

This threat, which was embellished by-certain
expressions which I prefer not to
transcribe, caused me to reflect. I do
not suppose that Bracknell could have
knocked my head off my shoulders, but
it is quite possible that he might have
managed to give me a black eye ; and
really I cannot afford to be seen going
about with a black eye. Therefore I
resolved to abstain from further provocation
; and at this opportune moment our
interview was interrupted by the entrance
of our host, accompanied by a large
detachment of his guests.

I HAVE read In books and I have repeatedly
heard it stated in conversation
that the right time for a literary man todo
his work is early in the morning ;
that the brain, refreshed by sleep, is
then at its clearest, and that ideas flow
from it with delightful rapidity while the
dew is still upon the grass. The theory
has a plausible sound, and may, for
aught I know, be found to work satisfactorily
by those who possess brains of
a superior order ; but my own brain,

which is but a poor piece of mechanism
at best and requires a good deal of
humouring, is utterly intractable during
the first few hours of the day, and the
only results that I have ever obtained
from attempting to set it in motion
against its will have been a bad
headache and a worse temper. I am
therefore obliged to perform the greater
part of my daily task after other people
have retired to bed ; and the consequence
is that I generally eat my breakfast
some time after other people have
finished theirs. This habit of mine is
not without advantages of which I am
especially sensible when staying in a
country house ; for to be obliged to
make polite conversation at 9.30 a.m. is
only a shade less painful than to compose

an article at the same hour. There
are, I am aware, houses in which one is
punished for appearing late at the 
by being made to partake of
cold tea and the repulsive remains of
dishes upon which one's predecessors
have been feasting ; but nobody, it maybe
hoped, is absolutely compelled to
visit at such houses.

On the day following that of which
I spoke in the last chapter I descended
from my room when the clocks were
striking half-past ten, with a comfortable
certainty that I should find something
hot awaiting me in the dining-room.
What I certainly did not expect to find
there was Lady Bracknell, attended by
her brace of devoted admirers. There,
however, they were, all three of them,

and I perceived at once that Hilda had
resumed the game of the previous evening.
It was a game of which, as I
knew, she never wearied. She had the
appearance of being well satisfied with
it now ; which was more than could be
said for either of the other players.

"After all," she was remarking, as I
entered, " I can't see why we should
give ourselves airs because we ride and
shoot better than most other nations.
That is something, of course ; but there
are so many other ways in which the
French, for instance, are our superiors.
They are a great deal more amusing to
talk to, and they are more artistic, and
they write better novels. Mr. Maynard,
aren't French novels much better than
ours ? "

VOL. II. H

I said I must decline to deliver judgment
upon that point ; it was a matter
of taste.

*swell, but," broke in Beauchamp, who
was looking decidedly cross, " I never
denied it. I'm sure I don't know
whether their novels are better than
ours, and, to tell you the truth, I don't
much care either. All I said was that
they are not a sporting people."

There is more variety of sport in
France than in England," said de
VIeuzac boldly. " We have, for example,
the wolf and the wild boar "

And you gallop after 'em in green
and gold coats, with horns twisted round
and round your bodies," interrupted
Beauchamp, not over courteously.

'* You have perhaps derived your ideas

of French sport from the pictures in
Punchy' observed de Vieuzac, without
losing his temper. " They are funny,
those pictures, they are very funny; but
I do not think that the artists have
drawn them from Hfe."

*' I have been in France," returned
the other doggedly, "and I've seen a lot
of chasseurs, as you call them, shooting
cock-sparrows on Sunday afternoons."

De Vieuzac shrugged his shoulders.
'' You will come to it, my good friend,"
said he. " What would you have ? Weare
a little in advance of you ; we made
our revolution a hundred years ago.
When your game-laws are abolished,
when your great estates are broken up,
when your country squires can no more
live upon their rents — then you weill see

H 2

what you will see. For the rest, the
persons who, as you say, shoot sparrows
on Sundays are not of the rank who
would shoot partridges if they were
Englishmen ; and you must not ask of a
man that he should be a good game-shot
when he has never the occasion to
shoot at game."

At any rate," observed Hilda, rising
and bestowing a gracious smile upon
the speaker, '* we all know that M. de
Vieuzac can shoot as well as anybody.
And isn't it time for you to go oat
shooting now ? "

Beauchamp held the door open for her.

*' We are to have a ride this afternoon,
are we not ? " I heard him ask eagerly.

Of course, we are," she answered.
Didn't you promise to take me out '^. "

And then, turning to the other, " M. de
Vieuzac, I am going to be very selfish
and make you join us. You will have
to tear yourself away from the partridges
and be in time for luncheon."

The Frenchman raised his eyebrows
slightly and bowed, murmuring something
about Lady Bracknell's wishes being law.
Possibly he thought that a ride in company
with his rival would not be very
good fun.

As for Beauchamp, he did not attempt
to conceal his disgust. '* Perhaps you
will ride with me some other day. If
I'm not wanted I'd just as soon shoot
this afternoon," he was beginning ; but
the closing of the door deprived me of
the remainder of his sentence, as well
as of Hilda's reply. However, it was

pretty certain that he would do what
she ordered him, whether he liked it or
not.

After I was left alone, I spent some
five minutes of my valuable time in
wondering why Lady Bracknell had
asked de Vieuzac to spoil poor Beauchamp's
afternoon. Were I a lady of
great personal attractions, I should, I
dare say, enjoy having several admirers ;
but I should certainly prefer to take them
one at a time. That a second may be
found useful as a means of stimulating
the ardour of the first I can understand ;
but the object of keeping them together
after that result has been fully obtained
is not so easy to discover. Sometimes
I have an uncomfortable fear that my
tutor was right in the opinion which he

expressed about me long ago, and that I
am not quite as clever as I think myself.
I ought undoubtedly to have guessed
what her ladyship was up to, and my
only comfort is in the reflection that if
I failed to do so. It was because my
estimate of human nature is pitched
too high.

I did not go out shooting with
Bracknell and the others that morning,
nor was I able to put in an appearance
at the luncheon hour. I had to finish
an admirable essay upon Proportional
Representation for the Eclectic Review,
and, getting my arguments into a knot
towards the last pages (which, I am
sorry to say, Is no uncommon experience
of mine when composing admirable
essays), I was chained to my desk until

the afternoon was far advanced, struggling
to reconcile certain irreconcilable statements
to which I had committed myself,
and which I was unwilling to retract.
Having at length made up my mind to
throw one of these overboard for the
sake of harmony, I wound up my task
and sallied forth to take the air.

The house in which I was staying
stood in the midst of one of those wild,
undulating parks which are more frequent
in the northern than in the southern
counties, and which look like a survival
of the England of three hundred years
ago. It was very beautiful in its way,
under the grey, autumnal sky, with shafts
of pale sunlight falling upon the gnarled
oaks and the withered bracken, and upon
patches of gorse and heather here and

there. I had walked some distance
across it and was wondering whether
de Vieuzac's unpleasant prophecy would
ever be fulfilled — whether the land upon
which I was standing would ever be
parcelled out among peasant proprietors,
and whether, in that case, the peasant
proprietors would not find out that they
had made an uncommonly bad bargain,
when the thud of approaching hoofs
interrupted my musings, and presently
Lady Bracknell, riding between her two
cavaliers, hove in sight.

They were pleased to draw rein on
recognising me, and Hilda said they had
had a delightful ride ; which assertion
was received with emphatic silence by
her companions. In all probability some
bickering had taken place during the

course of it, for the two men were
looking daggers at each other, and it
struck me that de Vieuzac was not quite
as cool as he had been earlier in the
day. A short distance ahead of us was
an inclosure, surrounded by a high fence
of posts and rails, like a large cattle-pen.
It may have been intended to serve that
purpose, or possibly, at certain seasons
of the year, to confine the red-deer, of
which there was a herd in the park.

*' There," said de Vieuzac, pointing toit
with his whip, and looking at Beauchamp,
'would be a pretty leap. You
could take it, perhaps ? — you who hesitate
at nothing."

'' Oh, do, Mr. Beauchamp ! " exclaimed
Hilda enthusiastically.

'* My dear Lady Bracknell," I remonstrated,

" what are you thinking of ?
The thing is absolutely impossible."

I am not sure that it was impossible ;
I am an indifferent judge of matters of
that kind, and I have read wonderful
accounts of the high jumps accomplished
by Australian horses. But I should certainly
be very sorry either to attempt
such a feat myself, or to see any friend
of mine attempt it. Hilda did not seem
to have heard me.

*' Oh, do try ! " she repeated. " I know
you would get over all right."

Beauchamp's reply was highly creditable
to his good sense and self-control.
'' I might get over," he said. '' Whether I
could get out again is another question.
But, anyhow, I couldn't think of risking
it with another man's horse."

De Vieuzac smiled ; and Beauchamp
turned upon him at once. '' What's that
you say ? " he asked sharply.

'* I assure you," answered the Frenchman,
with exaggerated politeness, 'that
I did not utter one word."

*you were thinking something
though."

"■ Oh, for that, yes. I was thinking
something, I admit. I was thinking that
sometimes it is very convenient to be
riding a friend's horse."

The words amounted to a studied
insult, and would unquestionably have
been so accepted in de Vieuzac's own
country. In France speeches of that
kind are permissible, their consequences
being, of course, well understood ; but
neither in France nor elsewhere is it

customary to offer such direct provocation
in the presence of a lady, and
Beauchamp went up several degrees in
my esteem when he answered quietly :
We'll discuss the question afterwards,
if you like. We may as well ride on
now."

Hilda suddenly broke into a short
laugh, touched her horse with the whip
and galloped away. The two men
followed her. I confess that I hurried
back to the house as fast as my legs
would carry me. I dislike and deprecate
quarrels above everything ; still, if
quarrels must needs take place, why
should I not be there to see ? After de
Vieuzac's inexcusable conduct, I felt that
it would be a real satisfaction to me to
see him knocked down, and I thought

that If I made great haste, I might just
manage to arrive in time. As it turned
out, I reached the front door with several
minutes to spare. From the flight of
steps which led up to it I could descry
the riders, who, perhaps, had made a
detour, approaching at a foot's pace, and
presently I had the honour of assisting
Lady Bracknell to dismount.

She stood for a moment, tapping her
foot with her riding-whip, and looking
with an odd, satirical expression at the
rivals. '^ Au revoir' she said, nodding
to them ; 'M am going to lie down till
dinner-time." Then she made a scarcely
perceptible sign with her hand to Beauchamp,
who ran up the steps after her
into the house.

De Vieuzac and I remained where we

were. I suppose we both knew that
Beauchamp would be out again directly.
And indeed, the horses had hardly been
led away to the stables before he
emerged and made straight for us.

*' M. de Vieuzac," said he, "you hinted
just now that I was a coward. May I ask
whether that was what you meant ? "

The Frenchman straightened his back,
brought his heels together, twirled his
moustache, and replied : '' You are at
liberty, sir, to place any construction
upon my words that may suit your
pleasure."

'ein good English, I suppose that
means that you want to fight. If you
had been an Englishman, I should have
hit you straight between the eyes, and it
would have done you a lot of good ; but

as you're a foreigner, I'm afraid we can't
settle it that way."

'* The method," observed de Vieuzac
sweetly, " seems a little barbarous. Forme,
I confess that I have not learnt to
box ; but with the sword or the pistol I
shall be charmed to hold myself at your
disposition. You do not, perhaps, use
those weapons ? "

Oh, don't we though ! " returned
Beauchamp, with a short laugh. '' I
shall be happy to prove the contrary to
you when and where you please ; only of
course it can't be in this country. If
it's the same thing to you, I should
prefer to stay out my time here ; but
next week I will meet you at Ostend or
any other place you choose to name."

The Frenchman bowed. '' It is usual,"

said he, *' to leave all details to be
arranged by the seconds in these affairs.
Will you then be so kind as to mention
two gentlemen whose names and addresses
I may give to the friends whom I shall
ask to represent me ? "

Beauchamp rubbed the back of his
head. '' I don't want this talked about
all over the place, you know," he said.
Maynard, you've heard it all ; perhaps
you'll be good enough to act for me —
and find some other fellow who can hold
his tongue. And look here," he added,
turning to de Vieuzac ; " we had better
pretend to be friends for the next few
days. Don't you think so '^. "

'sir," replied the Frenchman magnificently,
" I shall withdraw. I should
be desolated to be the occasion of

VOL. II. I

embarrassment, and I will leave for
London tomorrow."

With that, he took off his hat, bowing
low. Beauchamp stared, looked rather
inclined to laugh, then nodded and turned
back into the house. And so this sanguinary
encounter was agreed upon.

As a matter of theory, it has always
seemed to me that the othello is, upon
the whole, the best means that can be
devised of wiping out a mortal affront or
injury. It would, no doubt, be intolerable
that one should be called upon to
stand up and be shot at because some
bully or other had purposely trodden
upon one's toe ; and we are accustomed
to hear that it was in order to put a
stop to such highly unpleasant liabilities
that duelling was suppressed in England.

Nevertheless, it is not easy to say what
ought to be done to a man who calls
you a coward to your face. To take no
notice is hardly within the capacity of
the meekest of mortals ; to appeal for
protection to the law is no salve for
wounded honour ; and so there seems to
be nothing for it but a scrimmage with
fists or walking-sticks. Now I must say
that every affray of that kind which has
taken place in my time (and there have
been several such) has been supremely
ridiculous and undignified : therefore,
pacific though my own nature is. and
much as I should hate to see the sword-point
of an adversary quivering within an
inch of my nose, I am inclined to think
that the duel ought to have been retained
as an ultimate resort. Such being

my sentiments, and Beauchamp having
been most unequivocally and grievously
insulted by de VIeuzac, I could not but
applaud the course taken by the former.
However, It Is one thing to approve of
a given quarrel In the abstract and quite
another to allow oneself to be mixed up
in it, to see one's name mentioned and
one's private character discussed In all
the newspapers, and even perhaps to be
haled before the authorities and cast Into
prison. Deep, then, would have been
my consternation when my young friend
so coolly nominated me as his second, if
I had thought that there was any probability
of my actually figuring In that
capacity ; and the genial alacrity with
which I accepted the greatness thrust
upon me was, I allow, due solely to the

circumstance that I had not the remotest
intention of permitting a hostile meeting
to occur.

The line of conduct which I adopted,
with a view to avert bloodshed, was
simple, and, as I flattered myself, likely
to prove effectual. I slipped away from
the dinner-table, that evening, a little
before the other men, and, hurrying into
the drawing-room, seated myself beside
Lady Bracknell, who was reclining in
an easy-chair apart, and was doubtless
waiting for one or other of her victims
to join her.

*' Allow me," said I (for I was resolved
not to spare her), " to congratulate you
upon your energy and determination.
If you could have persuaded Beauchamp
to break his neck at that fence this

afternoon, it would have been very nice.
You would have been an immensely rich
woman at this moment, and probably
nobody, except my unworthy self, would
have suspected you of being a murderess,
in addition to your other claims to
notoriety. But the wretched creature
wouldn't jump, and so you had to fall
back upon your original plan of inducing
that Frenchman to challenge him and
kill him. I am sorry to disappoint you ;
but that plan of yours will have to be
abandoned. You must try to cook
Beauchamp's goose in what the cookery
books call ' another way.' "

Hilda burst into scornful laughter.
What in the world are you talking
about?" she asked. "Have you lost
your senses ? "

"Not at all," I replied ; ''I retain possession
of them and place a modest reliance
upon their evidence. But surely yours
were not quite as acute as usual when
you cast yourself for the part of Lucretia
Borgia. Tragedy, believe me, is not your
forte, and as often as you attempt it you
will break down. Don't you see that if
this rather diabolical plot of yours had
succeeded, you would never have been
able to show your face in any decent
society again ? Do you really imagine
that there would have been the slightest
doubt in anybody's mind as to who had
instigated the duel between two men
whom you have been openly endeavouring
to set by the ears ever since your
arrival here ? The best thing that you
can do now is to get your fire-eating

Frenchman to make an apology, which
you will instruct Beauchamp to accept."

Hilda's face was not ordinarily an expressive
one ; but as she turned it
towards me now, there swept across ita
look of such vindictive malice that I
inwardly recanted my criticism upon her
tragic capabilities. However, she soon
subdued that passing emotion and laughed
again. " I don't in the least understand
you," she declared ; ''I know nothing
of any duel, and how can I help it if
a couple of foolish young men choose
to quarrel ? It appears to me that
you have been drinking too much
wine, and I should be much obliged
if you would go away for the present."


'with pleasure," I replied, rising.

'* Do you absolutely refuse, then, to bea
peacemaker ? "

*' I refuse," she answered, somewhat
defiantly, *' to be dictated to by you. I
don't believe what you say, and I shall
not make myself ridiculous by trying
to smooth down a quarrel which most
likely exists only in your imagination."


That was all that I obtained from her ;
but in truth I had not expected more ;
and in addressing such very plain-spoken
remarks to her I had been actuated rather
by curiosity as to how she would take
them than by any hope that they would
divert her from her purpose. The person
whom I did hope to Influence was de
Vieuzac. Him I waylaid an hour later,
as he was entering the smoking-room,

and drew him away into the billiards
which adjoined that apartment, and
which, fortunately, was untenanted.

M. de Vieuzac," I b^M, " it is quite
out of the question that you should fight
young Beauchamp, and I think you wil
admit as much when I have given you
my reasons for saying so."

He interrupted me with suave courtesy,
observing that the subject was no longer
one which he could properly discuss. Any
remarks which I might have to make
must be addressed to his frier. £5 the
Comte de Something and the Marquis
de Something-else, who would not fail
to call upon me in due course.

1 replied that it would be needless to
give his friends that trouble. " Of coin-se,"
I continued, " you will not pretend that

the ostensible cause of your quarrel is
the real one."

The cause of quarrel," returned he,
"is of perfect simplicity. I have used
words which I decline to withdraw and
by which Mr. Beauchamp conceives himself
to be wounded. And permit me
once more, sir, to tell you that this
conversation is most irregular."

*' I dare say it is," I rejoined, '* but
you had better listen to me, all the same.
The lady who is at the bottom of all
this "

'' Mr. Maynard," interrupted deVieuzac,
"It is Impossible that I should listen to
you. You scandalise me — positively you
scandalise me ! What ! you speak of a
lady ! — you would perhaps In another
moment go so far as to mention her byname

! It is unheard of ! I must beg
of you, sir, to excuse me." And he made
for the door.

'every well," said I, 'have it your own
way, then, if you are determined to bring
about an explosion. Since you insist
upon it, your friends shall talk the affair
over with me and with Lord Bracknell,
who will be my coadjutor."

De Vieuzac paused upon the threshold
and pulled his moustache. " Lord
Bracknell ! " he ejaculated. " Is that Mr.
Beauchamp's choice, may I ask ? "

Oh, no ; it is my choice. You heard
him give me leave to select a colleague,
and such is the selection that I propose
to make."

This brought the Frenchman to his
bearings. He returned slowly and

consented under protest, to hear me.
** What is it that you have to say ? "
he inquired.

Why, simply this," I replied. *' Mr.
Beauchamp, as you are probably not
aware, is the present , holder of very
large estates, which, in the event of his
dying without issue, would pass to his
cousin, Lord Bracknell. Consequently,
if he were to die suddenly within a short
time, a certain lady whose name we won't
mention would be snatched from the brink
of bankruptcy and raised to a position of
great wealth. Now, suppose that, by a
misadventure which I am sure you would
be the first to deplore, but which you
might not be able to avert, you were
to kill that young man. What do you
think would be said of you and of the

unnamed lady ? Or suppose, without going
so far as that, that you only wounded
him. Is it not certain that everybody
would declare that you had done your
best to kill him ? To me, at any rate,
it is very evident that the insult which
you offered him to-day was a mere pretext,
and that you had deliberately made
up your mind to fasten a quarrel upon
him."

The Frenchman's countenance, while I
was speaking, exhibited various phases of
emotion ; but now he blazed forth with
sudden fury and sprang at me like a
wild cat. " Sir," he hissed out, '' do
you dare to accuse me of being an
assassin ? "

'' Certainly not," I replied, drawing back
a few paces as a precautionary measure.

but I think you are in some danger
of incurring that accusation from others."
Then, as he eyed me in a suspicious
manner and appeared to be hesitating, I
continued : '* Allow me, as an insular
barbarian, to speak the truth to you
without phrases. The fact is that you
have been made a cat's-paw of by the
most thoroughly unscrupulous woman of
my acquaintance. I venture to think
that it would be more consistent with
your honour and dignity to apologise to
Beauchamp, whom you can't really believe
to be a coward, than to fight him for the
sake of Lady Bracknell, whom I have
known all my life, and who, I can assure
you, is not worth a drop of honest blood.
In any case, depend upon it that we
shall not allow our man to go out with

you. Lord Bracknell would not dare to
sanction such a meeting, even if he were
what I am convinced that he is not
as infamous a wretch as his wife."

^' Taisezvoics done'' whispered de
Vieuzac hurriedly.

But his caution came too late. In my
anxiety to bring conviction home to the
mind of my interlocutor, I had not
noticed the entrance of a third person,
and now, when I looked round and saw
Bracknell standing close to my elbow, I
perceived that the cat was out of the
bag.

'' You don't mince matters, Maynard,"
Bracknell observed. 'rafter that very
frank expression of opinion, I dare say
you won't object to my asking what you
are talking about."

VOL. II. K

Our conversation was strictly confidential,"
broke in de Vieuzac, with some
eagerness. " Neither Mr. Maynard nor
I have the right to repeat it."

Bracknell glanced at him for a moment,
as a big dog glances at a little one, and
then turned to me again. '' Come," he
said, ** I am waiting to hear in what
respect I am less Infamous than my wife."
It seemed best to answer him. '' M.
de Vieuzac and Beauchamp have fallen
out," I replied, '' and unfortunately the
difference has ended In a challenge, you
and 1 being nominated as Beauchamp's
seconds. When you came in, I was
trying to point out that, as you are heir-presumptive
to Beauchamp's estates, you
could not let him risk his life In such a
way."

I should have thought," remarked
Bracknell coolly, '' that a man from
whom one has expectations would have
been the man of all others whom one
would like to see risking his life."

I doubt," I replied, " whether you
would like it — under the circumstances."

Oh, the circumstances, eh ? And
pray, what are they '^ "

'' It is needless to speak of them,"
cried de Yieuzac, before I could answer.
'' Mr. Maynard has convinced me that I
have been in the wrong, and I shall
hasten to offer my excuses to Mr. Beauchamp.
I have only to add that if you
consider yourself in any way aggrieved
by me, my lord, I shall hold myself
entirely at your disposition."

** You seem to be spoiling for a fight,"

K 2

remarked Bracknell. " I don't know that
I have any grievance against you ; but
I'll do my best to Indulge you by discovering
one."

The Frenchman bowed, pirouetted
round on his heels and left the room.

Now, Harry," said Bracknell, " perhaps
you'll explain yourself. Of course
I can guess what those two Idiots
quarrelled about, but it seems to me that
infamous wretch ' Is pretty strong language
for a cautious fellow like you to
use. Between you and me, what did you
mean by It ? "

Perhaps I was hardly justified In
telling him ; but at the moment I really
did not see for whose sake I was bound
to be reticent. To my mind there was
nothing very extraordinary In such a

woman as Hilda wishing to get Beauchamp
out of the way and step into his
shoes. It has always seemed to me that
murderers are only regarded with greater
abhorrence and punished more severely
than other criminals because we all have
such a strong dislike to the idea of
being murdered, and that the man who
slanders or cheats me is morally just
about as culpable as the man who knocks
me on the head. Therefore, when I had
related the events of the day to Blackwell,
I was a good deal astonished at
the effect produced upon him by my
narrative. He strode up and down the
room, muttering furious imprecations and
working himself up into such a state of
blind rage that I determined not to let
him out of my sight until he should have

become calmer. If Lady Bracknell had
made her appearance just then, I don't
know what catastrophe might not have
happened.

But the storm soon spent itself. Presently
he came and sat down beside me,
saying quietly, " That Frenchman behaved
rather well, I think."

*' Well, yes," I agreed, '* I think he
did. He is a gentleman and he will
hold his tongue ; but I suspect that you
won't see him at your house any more."

Hardly ! For the matter of that, I
shan't have a house much longer. I'm
utterly smashed, and I suppose every
stick in my possession will be sold up.
Her ladyship will be a pleasant sort of
companion to face grinding poverty with,
won't she .^ I expect she'll go back to

her father, though. After all that has
happened, I don't see that I am bound
to go on living with her. Well, what
are you making grimaces at ? You think
it's a case of the pot calling the kettle
black, perhaps } I'm black enough, goodness
knows ! but you yourself said just
now that you didn't believe I had sunk
to her depth of infamy. I allowed her
to have her own way with regard to
Beauchamp, which, if you like, was not
pretty behaviour ; but she represented tome
that the young fool was mad about
her, that he would never marry Mildred,
and that, for poor little Sunning's sake,
it would be a thousand pities to let that
huge fortune slip between our fingers.
She didn't put it quite so coarsely as
that ; she can express herself in a very

pleasant and convincing sort of way
when she chooses, and I dare say I
wasn't unwilling to be convinced."
Bracknell paused for a moment and
sighed. '' You remember what I said to
you the day my poor little man died,"
he went on presently. '* I haven't been
able to endure the sight of her since
then, and I haven't cared two straws
how she amused herself or what her
plots and plans might be. It was all
one to me. But I never suspected her
of anything so fiendish as compassing a
friend's death in order to get hold of
his money. No, by Jove ! I never
Suspected her of that. I shall tell Beauchamp
about it."

'' I think you had better not," I said.

'* I shall, though," he returned ; ** it's

the least I can do. If that doesn't cure
him, nothing will ; and I owe it to him
to do my best to cure him. I shouldn't
be surprised if he went off and married
Mildred after all."

'' It would be a fitting conclusion to
this highly creditable business," I could
not help remarking. " Shall you urge
Lady Mildred to accept him now ? "

'' No," answered Bracknell shortly,
I am not going to urge anybody to do
anything ; they may muddle it out among
them. As for me, about the best thing
I could do would be to put a bullet into
my head. I'm sick of all this!"

Thereupon he got up and strode away,
leaving me not altogether dissatisfied
with my evening's work. " There will
at least be no duel now," thought I to

myself. " Hilda's machinations have
ended in a complete fiasco ; and, unless
I am very much mistaken, she is about
to pass through the most uncomfortable
quarter of an hour of her ill-spent life."

Murder, the proverb tells us, will out ;
and although, of course, we do not know
how many murders have remained undiscovered,
appearances seem to lend
support to the theory. In like manner,
I have always observed that anything In
the shape of a scandal is sure to become
public property, however much it may be
to the interest of those concerned in it to
keep their own counsel ; and a very comforting
thought this should be to the
numerous persons who love a choice bit

of scandal above everything. That de
Vieuzac and Beauchamp had had a mortal
quarrel ; that they had been within an
ace of slitting one another's peasants in
the good old-fashioned style ; that they
had only been pacified by the joint exertions
of Lord Bracknell and the reader's
humble servant ; and that a scene of the
most distressing and dramatic nature had
taken place subsequently between Lady
Bracknell and her incensed husband —
these things were known all over the
house before I left my bedroom the next
morning ; and when I made my appearance
I found my fellow guests upon the
tip-toe of joyous excitement and curiosity.
If they gained no further information from
me, it was not for want of asking for it ;
nor, I imagine, would the appeased rivals

have escaped cross-examination, had not
those gentlemen wisely sought safety in
flight. They must have journeyed up to
London by the early express together ; and
I should much have liked to hear what
they conversed about by the way, but
had no opportunity of making inquiries as
to that until the whole subject had ceased
to interest me.

However, that I may not seem to exalt
myself unduly by affecting a superiority
to the weaknesses of my neighbours, I
will confess that I was most anxious to
obtain some account of the lecture which
Bracknell had doubtless administered to
his wife ; because I thought it likely that
this had been expressed in fine, forcible
English, such as one is always glad to
listen to in these days of roundabout

phrases and involved construction. My
hostess, looking rather hard at me, informed
me that the Bracknells were
leaving that morning ; so that I was
obliged to bolt my breakfast in a terrible
hurry. For, after all the trouble that I
had taken in the matter, I should have
been truly vexed had I been denied the
satisfaction of seeing her ladyship's face
before she departed.

As it fell out, I was privileged not only
to see her face but to hear her voice ;
and I don't know when I have enjoyed
anything more than the interview of ten
minutes or so which she was pleased to
accord to me in the conservatory, where
I discovered her. A deeply discomfited
woman was she that day, and bitter were
the reproaches with which she assailed me.

*' This bas been yoiunr droning" firoinni iBrslt
to last !! ** she exdaimnedl. " AM the maidservant
di^;iace that may cxHooe of k wiH lie
at your door.'^

And when I relied that I accepted die
whcde responsibility and storied in it, she
£uiiy lost her temper — a thing that was
not usual with her — detains that that
only showed what an empty-headed, conceited
idiot I was. "you think yourself
so wise that you must needs have a finger
in every one's business. I should pray
much like to know whom you flatter
yourself that you hare benefited this time !
Not your friend, Jim Leigh, at all events ;
for, mark my words, Mr. Beauchamp will
go straight ofi* and propose to Mildred
now. I need not teD you that she wiD
accept him. Ix all her demure airs lie

knows the value of a large income as well
as anybody. As for me, you have certainly
done me an ill turn, if that Is any
satisfaction to you — which I suppose it
is. For the last five or six years I have
shown you every possible civility ; I have
had you to dinner again and again when
you bored me to death, and I have introduced
you into lots of good houses
which you know very well that you would
never have entered but for me. Naturally,
therefore, you hate me. Why you should
hate Bracknell I don't know ; but you
have very effectually ruined him. Alfred
Beauchamp's marriage means bankruptcy
to him — neither more nor less than that."
She must have been very angry to
use such candour. '* You admit then,
dear Lady Bracknell," I observed, 'that

your purpose was to improve the family
prospects by getting Alfred Beauchamp
killed out of the way."

'' I admit no such thing," she returned,
and I defy you to produce one atom
of proof that I wanted him to fight
M. de Vieuzac. I will admit that I
flirted with him. If that shocks you,
you are welcome to be shocked. It
didn't shock Bracknell, who knew quite
well what I was donor, and why I did it.
That much he couldn't deny last night,
in spite of all his raving and storming."

'* Did he rave and storm ? " I inquired
with interest.

*eyes, he did. He said such abominable
things to me that I have very great
doubts as to whether I can continue to
live with him."

VOL. II. L

"You will wait," I presume," said I,
until you see whether there is a
chance of his having anything to live
upon."

Why this remark should have exasperated
her I cannot tell : possibly because
it expressed nothing more than
the simple truth. At all events, she
turned upon me quite furiously. '* You
think it is safe to insult me, do you ? "
she cried. '' You will find yourself mistaken.
I have a very good memory,
and I am not likely to forget what I
owe you. The day will come when you
will be sorry for having meddled with

me."

That day may come ; but it has not
come yet, and I am still unrepentant.
I believe I am one of the very few

people who can boast of having put
Lady Bracknell into a passion.

She and her husband drove down to
the station together, but, as I understood,
parted there, her ladyship making for
another country house, to which she had
been invited, while Bracknell went up to
London. Thither I also betook myself
on the following day ; and there, shortly
afterwards, I received a letter from my
mother, in which I was begged to run
down and see her.

*' I am feeling uneasy about our friends
at Staines Court," she wrote, "and should
be very glad to have a little talk with
you. The young man Beauchamp has
arrived. I fear, but am not sure, that
he has come for the purpose of renewing
his most unwelcome attentions."

L 2

How this bad behaviour of the young
man Beauchamp was to be checked by
my advent upon the scene did not appear
; but of course I hastened to obey
my mother's summons, and on reaching
my journey's end, whom should I find
waiting for me upon the platform but Jim
Leigh. He said he had heard that I
was expected by that train, and had
thought he would come down and meet
me, which was highly flattering.

'* I've got the dog-cart here," he added,
so that I can drop you at your house
if you like ; but don't you think a walk
would do you good after being shut up
in that stuffy railway-carriage } The cart
can take your traps on for you."

It was not exactly pleasant weather for
walking, the roads and lanes being deep

in mud, and a gusty wind having been
blowing all day from the north-west, with
occasional showers of cold rain, which
seemed likely to be succeeded by snow ;
but as it was evident that Jim had a
great deal to say to me, I would not
baulk him of his purpose.

You know," he began, as soon as we
had set out, "what I told you in London
last summer about Lady Mildred."

'* Yes," I answered. ''If I remember
rightly you were disturbed in mind about
her matrimonial prospects and your object
was to induce Beauchamp to espouse
her."

'' My dear Harry " returned Jim
gravely, *' circumstances alter cases. I
don't know whether that ever was exactly
what you could call my object, but

anyhow it isn't my object now. I thought
at that time that she really cared for
Beauchamp."

I perceive," said I, '* what the circumstances
are which have altered the
case, and I heartily congratulate both
you and Lady Mildred. There will bea
row, of course ; but you must try not
to mind a row."

Jim sighed deeply, *' It isn't so simple
as all that, you know," he said. '' I
believe I have told you already that
Mildred is an angel — a positive saint
upon earth ! "

** I think I remember your mentioning
it," I replied. " What then ? Is it characteristic
of saints and angels to marry
men whom they don't love and throw
over those to whom they are attached ? "

** Why, of course it is," returned Jim,
with a shade of impatience. " Given
certain conditions, that is precisely what
a saint or an ano^el would do."

''I cannot," I observed, "pretend to
your familiarity with the ways of those
celestial beings, but to a mere earthly intelligence
like mine it does appear "

*now Harry," interrupted Jim, "don't
go on in that way. It isn't the least bit
funny, and it's no help to a fellow. Just
allow me to speak for a few minutes and
I'll tell you how matters stand."

Having thus ruthlessly snubbed me
and reduced me to silence, he proceeded
(though, I must say, not very lucidly), to
redeem his promise. The upshot of what
he had to say was that he had been
unable to refrain from avowing his love

to Lady Mildred and that, to his unutterable
joy, he had discovered that his love
was returned. She had, however, declared
most positively that she considered
herself bound in honour to carry out her
father's wishes, should it be in her power
to do so, and I gathered that the only
thing which had hitherto kept this luckless
pair from breaking their hearts was
a comforting conviction that, after all,
this would not be In her power. Even
Lord Staines — who, in accordance with
the intention welch he had expressed tome,
had remonstrated firmly but kindly
with his daughter — had acknowledged
that there Is no known method of marrying
a man who won't ask you to marry
him. " And I really believe," added Jim,
"that if Beauchamp had distinctly refused

to come forward, he wouldn't have had
any serious objection to me."

"In other words, if he can't get
^40,000 a year, he will be graciously
pleased to put up with a sixth of that
sum," I observed.

** Well, it isn't only a question of income
; there's the debt that I told you
about. However, Beauchamp has come
forward at last, and I confess to you
frankly, Harry, that I'm at my wits' end.
I don't see my way at all."

"Has Beauchamp proposed?" I inquired.


"Not yet ; but he may do it any day.
In fact, it is quite certain that he has
come here in order to do it. He wrote
to Lady Mildred, offering himself for a
week, which he would hardly have done

unless he had meant business. From
what he has let fall, I suspect that he
has had a quarrel with Lady Bracknell
and has decided to cut himself off from
her. Old Staines is as pleased as Punch,
he looks upon the thing as settled.
Harry, what the deuce am I to do ? "

Don't you think," I suggested, " that,
under all the circumstances, Lady Mildred
might be your best adviser ? "

But he shook his head despondently.
She has made up her mind," he answered
; /'she has no doubt at all as to
what her duty is ; she is ready to sacrifice
herself for the sake of her family. But
am I to stand quietly looking on while
this sacrifice is carried out '^. That's the
question."

It was not altogether easy to answer

him. The situation was one which has
repeated itself often enough in history
and legend. Iphigenia got out of her
awkward predicament, as we know, in a
manner more or less satisfactory to all
parties concerned, but where, in this case,
were we to look for the deics ex viacJmict
who should fulfil the father's vow and
sever the daughter's chains by one happy
stroke ?

*' Obviously," I said at length, " either
the family or Lady Mildred must be
sacrificed ; and, all things considered,
I think the family had better go to the
wall."

But she won't consent to that,"
answered Jim ruefully.

*' Exactly so ; and therefore I don't see
what course is open to you, except to

stand and look on. Have you thought
of any alternative plan ? "

'' None," he replied disconsolately. " I
was in hopes that you, who are so much
sharper than I am, might be able to
suggest something."

I was gratified by the compliment, but
conscious of my inability to show myself
worthy of it. Certainly I could have
devised several excellent schemes, but in
order to work them it would have been
essential to obtain Lady Mildred's acquiescence.
What was to be done, so
long as the victim obstinately refused to
raise her head from the block ? However,
not to discourage my unfortunate
friend more than was necessary, I promised
him that I would think the dilemma
over very carefully ; and, either because

drowning men will clutch at straws or
because he really had a misplaced confidence
in my abilities, this assurance
seemed to comfort him a good deal.

At my own gate, where we found his
dog-cart waiting, he bade me good-bye.
'' I shall look you up tomorrow afternoon,
old chap," said he. *' By that time
I'll be bound to say you'll have hit upon
some idea." In which over-sanguine
anticipation he drove away.

And now it was that my dear mother
showed the spirited stuff of which she
is made. Not a word would she listen
to of my sober representations as to the
danger of intermeddling with our neighbours'
affairs, and when I was shabby
enough to quote her against herself, reminding
her that these things were

ordered for us and that all was doubtless
for the best, though we, with our limited
intelligence, might not be able to see it,
she became quite angry.

*' Another time," said she, " I will show
you the folly and wickedness of such talk.
For the present, it is enough to say that
I will not have my poor Mildred married
to a man whom she detests in payment
of anybody's debts."

** I don't think she detests him," I
answered, *' but let that pass. How are
you going to prevent her from being
handed over to him ? "

Thereupon, to my utter amazement,
she coolly informed me that she intended
to go up to Staines Court and beard the
new Agamemnon in his den. As she
had not been outside the limits of our

own garden for a matter of twenty years,
and as the only conveyance that we
possess is a two-wheeled pony-cart, it
may be imagined how this proposition
took my breath away,

*' Lord Staines," she went on, with a
smile, '^ is too feeble to leave the house.
The mountain will not come to Mahomet,
so Mahomet must go to the mountain.
I shall write and ask him to send a
carriage for me, and you must hoist me
into it somehow."

This proposed borrowing of the enemy's
transport in order to reach the battlefield
was a stroke of humour which I
appreciated, but I could not, of course,
sanction it. It was not, however, until
I had assured my mother that she should
only leave the house over my prostrate

body that she yielded, with a very bad
grace, saying : ''So be it, then ; but
please to understand, Henry, that I see
my duty plainly marked out for me and
that I shall not be deterred from doing
it. You must bring this Mr. Beauchamp
to call upon me."

When my mother addresses me as
Henry," it means that she is in no
mood to be trifled with. Accordingly I
walked up to Staines Court the next
morning, asked for Beauchamp, told him
what a pleasure it was to meet him again
(a pleasure in which he did not appear
to participate), and mentioned that my
mother, who lived hard by, was most
anxious to make his acquaintance. He
was a polite young man ; and, though
evidently much surprised by this sudden

development of friendliness on my part,
he made no difficulty about returning
home with me.

My mother received him in that
bright little up stairs sitting-room where
so much of her life has been spent,
and about which there always lines a
faint, old-fashioned smell of pot-pourra.
She is a very beautiful and refined-looking
old lady, and it is my belief
that she is perfectly aware of the fact.
I noticed that she was wearing a little
of the treasured Mechlin lace which belonged
to her great-grandmother, and as
soon as she opened her lips I perceived
that she had put on her very best
manner, which, like the lace, is only
assumed upon occasions of importance.


VOL. II. M

She made me place a chair for Beauchamp
beside her sofa, and smiled
graciously upon him over the top of a
large fan, which she swayed gently to
and fro while she spoke. *Mt is very
good of you, sir," she began, *' to visit a
bed-ridden old woman whose conversation
can have few attractions for you.
Indeed, I should not have ventured to
put you to so much inconvenience,
had I not had a special motive for
doing so."

I suppose Beauchamp had never heard
anything like this before in all his days.
He was quite unaccustomed to being
called '' sir " and condescended to, and
it evidently flustered him.

Oh, but really, you know, Mrs.
Maynard — upon my word — delighted, I'm

sure ! " said he, with all the graceful
eloquence of the age.

You are so kind," resumed my
mother suavely, '' as to say so, but I
must not flatter myself that your presence
here is due to any other cause
than to the courtesy which, as I have
always understood, is natural to you."

She went on in this strain for some
little time, gradually working up to her
point, and anything funnier in its way
than the contrast which she presented to
her bewildered interlocutor I have seldom
witnessed. At length she shut up her
fan with a snap, exclaiming, more in
sorrow than in anger :

''' And can what I hear be true, Mr.
Beauchamp ! Can it be that you, a
gentleman and a man of honour, are not

M 2

only forcing your attentions upon a lady
to whom they are distasteful, but that
you have actually made her acceptance
of your hand the subject of a pecuniary
bargain with her father ? "

He assured her earnestly that it was
not true : she had been misinformed.
Nothing would induce him to force his
attentions upon anybody who — who — in
short, who didn't want them. '' And
as for a bargain, there really never
was any bargain at all — at least, not in
the way that you mean — there wasn't
indeed ! I'm sure I shall be only too
happy to oblige you, Mrs. Maynard, if
you'll tell me what you wish me to do,
and if you won't be — excuse me ! — quite
so awfully polite about it."

Thus adjured, my mother consented

to unbend and make her. meaning plain.
Without mentioning Jim's name, she gave
it to be understood that Lady Mildred's
affections were engaged ; after which, she
discreetly insinuated that although, under
such circumstances, Mr. Beauchamp must
feel that it would be out of the question
to take advantage of her filial submissiveness,
yet, in some ways, too abrupt
a withdrawal on his part was to be
deprecated.

Lord Staines," said she, " is an old
man and in broken health. From what
the doctor tells me, I fear that he may
not be with us much longer, and we
should all wish to spare him, if possible,
the shock of a sudden disappointment."

'' I see," broke in Beauchamp, with a
knowing nod. " After what you've told

me, I wouldn't for the world marry poor
little Mildred. In fact, to tell the truth,
I never was very keen about it. And
we'll manage to humbug the old boy as
long as he lives."

My mother drew herself up and looked
severe. *' You surprise me, Mr. Beauchamp,"
she said. *' Surely you do not
suppose that I am advising a course of
deception ! "

Here I judged it opportune to put in
my oar. " Nobody," quoth I, from the
background, " could suppose anything so
unwarrantable. You will not be called upon
to use deception, my dear Beauchamp,
only a little diplomacy, a little tact."

Harry," said my mother, '' I am quite
ashamed of being so troublesome, but
would you mind going down stairs and

seeing whether my knitting is in the
Library ? If it is not there, it may
perhaps be on one of the chairs in the
drawing-room. Or possibly it may have
become entangled in Sarah's skirts, as
it sometimes does, and been swept down
into the kitchen. At any rate, I feel
sure that it must be somewhere."

If there is one thing for which I am
more remarkable than for my humility
I suppose it is my obedience. I was
absent for exactly five-and-twenty minutes,
and when I came back to say that the
knitting was nowhere to be found, I was
not at all surprised to find my mother
tranquilly occupied with it, nor was there
any need to inform me that the two
conspirators had arrived at a perfect
mutual understanding.

Upon the morality of the compact thus
entered into I made no comment at the
time, and forbear from making any now ;
but I will say for my mother that she
had the grace to feel thoroughly ashamed
of herself, as was shown by the shortness
of her manner during the rest of
the day and by the vindictive determination
with which she insisted upon
reading a long sermon to me and the
servants that evening after prayers,
although it was the middle of the
week.

If I were asked to mention the man
of my acquaintance whom I consider the
least fitted, by nature and by habit, to
impose upon a child of average acuteness,
I should unhesitatingly name Jim Leigh.
Yet such is the power of love, and so
prone are the best of us to listen to
casuistical arguments, that he embarked
upon the career of duplicity suggested
to him by his friends with a readiness,
not to say a zest, of which he ought
certainly to have been incapable. That

he and Lady Mildred and Beauchamp
were actuated by the best of good
motives in behaving as they did I don't
deny ; but, as a more or less impartial
looker-on, I felt my sympathies veering
round, while I watched them, to the side
of the unsuspecting old man who was
so completely taken in by their manoeuvres.
Lord Staines, I believe, looked upon his
daughter's engagement as being to all
intents and purposes an accomplished fact.
He saw that she walked or rode everyday
with her supposed lover ; he did not
know that as soon as they were out of
sight of the house they were joined by
Jim, and that Beauchamp then promptly
hurried away to smoke a cigar with me,
thereby interfering considerably with my
daily labours He seemed to be satisfied

that all would now go well ; but in truth
the apathy which had fallen upon him
after his grandson's death was hardly to
be stirred by any event, great or small.

One event, for which he, and indeed
all London, must have been fully prepared,
took place at this time and created
no little excitement in the neighbourhood ;
for we do not study the "society "journals
much in our parts, nor does the gossip
of the clubs reach us. I say that the
financial collapse of the Bracknell establishment
can have surprised no one
who had lived in or near the fashionable
world during the foregoing year or so ;
yet, if her statement was to be believed,
it fell with all the cruelty of an unexpected
blow, upon the person who, one would
have thought, should have been best

aware of its imminence. Late one
evening, Hilda, bringing with her a
stupendous pile of baggage, arrived at
Staines Court to cast herself, somewhat
dramatically, upon the protection of the
head of the house. I happened to be
dining there and witnessed her entry
upon the scene, which was of a nature
to melt the hardest heart. In a voice
broken by emotion she told her lamentable
tale. She had — so she assured us
no longer a home ; perhaps even she
had no longer a husband ; for to Blackwell's
whereabouts she was unable to
obtain any clue. On her return to Wilton
Place, after paying a round of visits, she
had found the minions of the law in
possession and her personal property
seized. *' They have taken everything

everything ! " she cried. '' Even my
Bible and Prayer-book are in their
hands ! "

At this an unfeeling member of her
small audience had the bad manners to
laugh ; but she treated his interruption with
the contempt that it deserved, and went
on to enlarge upon the pitiable plight in
which she found herself. She had nothing
left but the clothes she stood up in — those
and a few others which she had taken
with her to the country. Not a word of
warning, not a single direction or suggestion
had been vouchsafed to her. After
being neglected for years, she was finally
abandoned! "And now," she concluded,
in a tragic tone, '' what am I to do ? "

I should think," answered Lord
Staines, rather peevishly, *' that you had

better go and wash your face and hands
and then have some dinner."

The advice was more practical than
sympathetic ; but such as it was, she acted
upon it. She-may have had some fear
that her father-in-law would recommend
her to go straight to the Rectory (which
was certainly what I should have done in
his place), and no doubt she preferred
remaining where she was to seeking that
refuge.

Staines Court is a large house ; but one
of its temporary inmates decided without
delay that it was not large enough to
contain him and Lady Bracknell at the
same time. " I shall be off the first thing
tomorrow morning," Beauchamp Informed
me in confidence, after he had beat a
precipitate retreat from the drawing-room,

taking me with him. *' Called away on
urgent business, don't you know. That
woman has brass enough for anything,
but I'll be hanged if I can trust myself
to speak to her."

Beauchamp, who, as I have already
mentioned, had latterly favoured me with
a good deal of his company, had in the
course of our conversations taken occasion
to express his opinion of Lady
Bracknell in the most unequivocal terms.
There is no iconoclast so ruthless as an
ex-devotee ; and indeed it must be very
unpleasant to discover that a woman
whom you have been disposed to worship
has not only made a fool of you,
but done her best to rob and murder
you into the bargain.

So Beauchamp took wing ; and whether

Lady Bracknell was annoyed or relieved
by his flight I cannot venture to say. She
was in some respects so sharp and in
others so oddly insensible, that, for aught
I know, she may still have flattered herself
that she mio^ht be able to lure him
back into her net. Be that as it may, it
was hardly to be expected that her ladyship's
humour should be of the best at
such a time, and from the assiduity of
her attentions to her father-in-law, as well
as from the extreme amiability which she
displayed towards Lady Mildred, I felt
pretty sure that her heart was full of
cursing and bitterness. Also, although,
upon the whole, she was civil enough tome,
she favoured me with a look every
now and then, which I understood to
mean, '' Wait a little longer, my friend.

I haven't forgotten your fussy interference
with my schemes, and I mean
to be even with you yet."

Now, so far as I myself was concerned,
I accepted these silent and smiling threats
with a good deal of equanimity, for I
really did not see how it was in her power
to do me any harm ; but of course it was
open to her to inflict vicarious trouble
upon me, while at the same time serving
Lady Mildred, whom she hated, an ill
turn, and the stone which she ultimately
picked up, wherewith to slay this
brace of birds, was one which lay, so
to speak, at her feet. It would have
been very unlike her to overlook it ;
nor was I at all surprised when Jim
sought me out, one day, and informed
me with a very long face, that his

VOL. II. N

machinations had been denounced to
Lord Staines.

*' It was Lady Bracknell's doing," he
said. 'rit seems that she went to the
old man and told him that she could not
bear to see him hoodwinked, that she felt
it her duty to open his eyes — and all that.
So she opened his eyes. But I don't
think," added Jim, pensively, looking
down at the ground and then glancing
quickly up at me for a moment — '' I
don't think that her sense of duty had
much to say to the matter."

I will venture," I remarked, '* to go
along with you as far as that ; I don't
think her sense of duty had much to say
to it. But perhaps that is of no great
consequence. What has been the result
of this timely intervention of hers } "

'* Oh," answered Jim, with a slight
shrug of his shoulders, "the result has
been that I have been turned out of the
house. I couldn't expect anything else,
could I ? What annoys me is to think
that I have deserved it. Lord Staines
really behaved uncommonly well He
sent for me at once and told me that I
had been accused by Lady Bracknell of
systematically deceiving both him and
Beauchamp. He said he thought I ought
to know what she asserted, though he
himself didn't believe her, and was sure
that neither [Mildred nor I would take
advantage of Beauchamp's absence in the
way she described. Well, of course she
hadn't got it quite right ; still, when he
put it in that way, I had to tell him the
truth. I never felt so small in my life,

N 2

and I couldn't get him to understand
why Beauchamp should have assumed a
false character. The end of It was that
he sent for Mildred. It was very hard
upon her, poor dear ; but she came
out of it splendidly. I must say that

Mildred is "

'* Oh, yes ; I know — an angel," I interrupted
rather rudely. " I don't doubt
it ; only, if I were in your place, I think
I should prefer her being a woman.
Filial affection is all very fine, but it
seems to me that, having made up her
mind to marry you, she ought to say so."
But, my dear fellow, that's exactly
what she did," returned Jim. " There
was no persuading poor old Staines that
Beauchamp wasn't in earnest, and he
wanted her to promise that she would

give me up. That she refused to do, so
then he said he was very sorry, but that,
under the circumstances, he must forbid
me his house. I couldn't complain of
that. I said I was very sorry too, which
was true enough. I shouldn't have
minded so much if he had flown into a
rage ; but he was quite quiet all the
time, and I'm afraid he was a good deal
hurt, poor old chap ! Mildred says he
is getting fidgety about Bracknell too.
They haven't heard a word from him,
and the lawyers wrote the other day to
say that he had put his affairs into their
hands and that he spoke of leaving
England. I wonder where he is and
what he is Quoins: to do ! "

o o

Hardly were the words out of his
mouth when the door of my study, where

we were sitting, was flung open, and in
walked Bracknell himself. He marched
straight up to Jim, laid a hand on each
of his shoulders, and said : " Well, you
dear, solemn old Jim, so you're going to
have your own way at last, are you ?
About time too ! I saw Beauchamp in
town yesterday, and he told me that it
was all right between you and Mildred.
I'm heartily glad of it."

It was the voice of the Bracknell of
our school days that spoke, and indeed
when I looked at him it seemed to me
that his eyes, too, had recovered something
of their old boyish light. "" Give
me a cigar, Maynard," said he, seating
himself astride upon a chair, " and we'll
have a jolly hour together, we three, it's
quite on the cards that we may never

spend another hour together ; for I'm
off to the Soudan to fiorht those black
beggars, who seem able to give a pretty
good account of themselves. We haven't
always been quite as good friends as
we once were, but that has been my
fault, and as I'm going away now,
perhaps you'll forgive and forget, eh,
Jim?"

Jim silently stretched out his big
brown hand, which the other took ; and
then I produced my best cigars and rang
for brandy and soda. But Bracknell
declined that refreshment.

'* No drink, thanks," said he, with a
laugh. " I've given up drink and cards
and everything else that ought to be
given up, and I'm going to be a good
boy for the future."

He was in wonderfully high spirits.
He told us how he had discharged all
his debts of honour (which may have
had something to do with his inability
to discharge the others) ; how, by working
his interest in high quarters, he had
managed to get appointed to some queer
corps — whether it was the mounted infantry
or the dismounted cavalry or the
camel-marines I can't recollect — and how
he was looking forward to a noble fight ;
which, after all, when you come to
think of it, is the very best use that a
hulking brute like me can put himself
to." But about his wife he said never a
word ; nor did either Jim or I care to
bring forward her name, the former
merely mentioning that he had been
forbidden to show himself at Staines

Court, without specifying the origin of

this decree of banishment.

"Oh, that'll be all right," Bracknell
said airily ; " the governor will come
round if you give him time. Now that
the pen has gone through Beauchamp's
name, there's nothing but you in the
race, that I can see."

But he did not seem disposed to dwell
upon the subject, nor indeed upon any
other that was connected with the present
or the future. It was about old Eton
days that he wanted to talk, and very
soon Jim and he were chuckling over
the memory of many a bygone escapade,
as if they had been schoolboys together
once more. At last Bracknell glanced at
his watch and pitched away the end ol
his cigar.

Ah, well ! " he said, "■ it has been
very jolly seeing you fellows again ; but
my time's up now and I must go and
say good-bye to the governor and
Mildred. I shall have to get back to
London this evening, so as to make an
early start tomorrow. You might walk
up with me, Jim. Oh, no, by the way,
you can't though. But come down to
the station at five o'clock and see the
last of me, like a good chap, will you ? "

Jim promised that he would be there,
and presently Bracknell took my arm and
walked me off towards Staines Court. I
accompanied him very willingly, because I
was rather curious, I confess, to see what
would happen If he encountered Hilda ;
and, as luck would have It, when we were
within a few yards of the house that Ill-used

lady, in a neat walking costume, came
tripping down the steps.

She nodded to Bracknell, without any
manifestation of surprise. " Oh," said
she, "you have turned up at last. Have
you come down to stay ? "

No," answered Bracknell shortly, " I
have come down to say good-bye to my
father. I'm leaving for the Soudan
tomorrow."

'' Really ? How spirited of you ! When
will you be back, do you suppose ? "

'* I'm sure I don't know ; never, perhaps.
Don't let me keep you standing
in the cold."

Hilda smiled and shrua-aed her
shoulders. *' I am not much accustomed
to being left out in the cold," she
remarked. " Nobody has ever yet

succeeded in treating me in that way,
and I doubt whether you will succeed.
I shall stay at Stain's Court until you
return."

'' Shall you .^ " said Bracknell ; '' I
should think you would find that rather
dull work. However, you know best
what suits you. Good-bye."

"Good-bye," returned Hilda. 'take
care of yourself."

She nodded again as she turned away ;
and so they parted, without so much as
shaking hands.

This short dialogue had the effect of
sobering my companion, whose face was
grave enough when he rang the bell and
asked for Lord Staines. I waited for
him in the drawing-room while he went
to bid farewell to his father and sister,

and a long time I had to wait before he
reappeared, looking a little flushed and
agitated.

'' Come on," he said hurriedly, " we
haven't much more than time to catch
the train." And when we were out in
the park he drew a long breath. '* Well,
I'm glad that's over ! " he exclaimed.
*' Poor, dear old boy ! I shall never
see him again, you know ; and, dash it
all ! I wish I had been a better son to
him. Not much use saying that now,
eh ? But I do wish it all the same."

I made some stupid conventional
speech, to which Bracknell replied, '' Oh,
he's breaking up fast, anybody can see
that, and he knows it himself. Besides,
it's rather more likely than not that I
shall leave my bones in Egypt ; and

between you and me, Maynard, I shan't
much mind if I do. I've been pretty
well sick of life for some time past, and
if I could make a fresh start — However,
I can't make a fresh start ; and as for
living with my wife again, I'd sooner go
into penal servitude. Upon my word,
I think she is the most infernally wicked
woman I ever came across! — and I've
seen a fairish number of women who
are commonly called wicked."

It was neither my business nor my inclination
to take up the cudgels on Hilda's
behalf, but I said, '* You won't make her
any better by deserting her, will you ? "

Nor any worse," returned Bracknell.
She'll be glad enough to get rid of me,
you may be sure, and she won't have
much to complain of; for when I come

into the property, if I ever do come
into it, she shall have the lion's
share of my income. I must pay off
Beauchamp too, somehow or other. I
say, Maynard, do you believe in Providence
? Of course you do, though ;
you're the sort of respectable fellow who
would ; and your mother brought you
up well. I sometimes think Providence
may have taken poor little Sunning
away for very good reasons. He
wouldn't have had your advantages, you
see.

Then he suddenly changed the subject
and talked about the Egyptian campaign
until we reached the station, where we
found Jim waiting for us.

The train dashed in immediately afterwards,
so that our leave-taking was a brief

one. I remember that Bracknell's last
words were: "Good-bye, old Jim; don't
forget me if I get knocked on the head
out there."

I HAD dinner up stairs with my mother
that evening. She does not, as a rule,
approve of this arrangement, which, she
says, gets the servants into slovenly
habits ; but she will countenance and
even encourage it when she is anxious to
obtain some information from me, because
she knows that I am never so amiable
and garrulous as when I am seated before
a comfortable fire, with a Mass of
very fair claret at my elbow, and the
digestive process going on satisfactorily.
VOL. ir. o

She wanted, of course, to hear all about
Bracknell's visit, and was immensely
interested in* my account of it — more
especially in that speech of his which
seemed to imply belief in an overruling
Providence. Upon this somewhat shaky
foundation she soon built up a theory to
the effect that Bracknell was a man of
deep, albeit unobtrusive, religious convictions,
and, warming with her theme
(for indeed there is nothing that she delights
in more than in trying to make
people out better than they are), had just
propounded an amazing, and, as I believe,
utterly unorthodox application of
the dogma of justification by faith,
when our aged factotum came in to
say that Mr. Leigh was at the door in
his dog-cart, and wished to speak to me.

I ran down stairs, feeling sure that
some misfortune lead happened, and my
fears were confirmed when I stepped out
into the windy night, and Jim, stooping
down over the gleaming lamps of the
dog-cart, said : " I want you to come upto
the station with me, Harry, there's
been an accident to the express."

He had heard no particulars, only
that a collision had occurred down the
line and that a great many lives were
believed to have been lost. " I couldn't
go to sleep, not knowing whether Blackwell
was alive or dead," he said. '* Besides,
he may be badly hurt, and there's
nobody with him."

I agreed that anything was better
than suspense, and having sent a message
to my mother to the effect that I was

o 2

going home with Mr. Leigh and might
not be back before morning, got into
the dog-cart ; though I had some doubt
as to whether we should be able to
proceed to the scene of the catastrophe.

However, when we reached the railway,
it seemed that there would be no
difficulty on that score. Lord Staines
was a great man in our part of the
world, and Jim himself enjoys a certain
consideration ; so that the station-master,
on hearing our errand, at once placed an
engine at our disposition. It had been a
very bad accident, he told us ; but he
had heard that there was but four killed
outright, and didn't see no reason to fear
as his lordship was one of them.

I hardly know why both Jim and I
should have formed an opposite opinion.

We did not communicate it to each
other — indeed we scarcely spoke a word
during the half-hour or so that we spent
rushing through the darkness in the teeth
of the south-easterly gale which had risen
since nightfall — but afterwards we compared
notes and found that neither of us
had had any hope from the first.
Perhaps, so far as one of us was concerned,
hope would not have been quite
the rio^ht word to use. A little sooner
or a little later death must come to us
all ; and the future, as poor Bracknell
himself had said a few hours before, had
had but few bright possibilities to offer
him. Yet, when among those four silent,
stiffened bodies we recognised the one
of which we were in search, I own that
my philosophy broke down, and that I

was just as sorry as if there had been
no mitigating circumstances connected
with this swift blotting out of a life
which was still young and vigorous.
One thinks of the mitigating circumstances
afterwards : at the time, a sudden
death always seems something strange
and horrible, like a murder ; although
probably most of us, if we could choose,
would rather be killed at a blow than
die by inches.

Jim took the loss of his friend terribly
to heart. He had always loved the man,
always admired him and wanted to believe
in him, even when faith must have been
a little difficult, and it was long before
he recovered from the shock of that
fatal night. To the present day he cannot
bear any allusion to it ; nor, I must

confess, is It a subject upon which I
myself care to dwell. Our first duty,
of course, was to break the news at
Staines Court ; and how we accomplished
this I can scarcely remember. The
one thing that stands out clearly in my
recollection is Hilda's look of horror
when she was told in what manner her
husband had met his death.

I can't see him ! " she cried. " Are
they bringing him here ? I won't look
at anything shocking ! "

It seemed to me amazing that at such
a moment the woman's first thought
should have been to spare herself; but
perhaps, after all, it would have been
more amazing if her first thought had
been anything else.

Lord Staines was in bed when we

reached the house. It was thought best
that I should at once tell him what
could not long be concealed, and he
listened to me with very little apparent
emotion. He asked me whether I thought
Bracknell's death had been a painful one ;
and when I replied — as, happily, I was
able to do — that it must have been
instantaneous, he muttered, '* Well, well ! "
and lay back on his pillows, looking
straight before him with sunken, weary
eyes.

'* So there is an end and a finish of
us," he said presently ; ** maybe it's best
so. It seems odd that Bracknell and
Sunning should both go before me ; but
I don't suppose I shall have much longer
to wait now. When my poor boy and
I parted this afternoon, we knew that il

was for the last time, and I'm glad he
came to see me — I'm very glad he came
to see me. He was in great glee at the
prospect of a fight — he has always been
like that from a boy. We Henleyss may
have our faults, but I don't think we
have ever been accused of wanting pluck.
Bracknell will make himself heard of out
there, you'll see. I was a little vexed
with him at first for going off and
leaving me, but he gave me reasons, and
I believe he was right. I wish he didn't
hate writing letters so much ! The newspapers
will tell us all about him, though."
In this way the old man wandered on,
until Lady Mildred came softly into the
room and made me a sign to leave him.
I doubt whether he ever fully realised
what Bracknell's fate had been. During

the next few days he talked a great deal
about his son, sometimes speaking of
him as still alive, sometimes as having
been killed In Egypt ; but he did not
seem able to fix his mind upon any subject
for more than a few minutes at a
time and often failed to recognise those-about
him. One duty, fortunately, recurred
to his memory, and his performance
of It was, I believe, an Immense
comfort to two simple-minded and conscientious
people.

*' My poor boy," he said, when he had
caused Jim Leigh to be summoned and
had made him take Lady Mildred's hand,
told me that I might consent to your
marriage without loss of honour. I had
thought differently, but Bracknell assured
me that some one — the other man "

** Mr. Beauchamp ? " suggested Lady-mildred
gently, when her father came to
a long pause.

*' Beauchamp, yes — Beauchamp, it
seems, withdraws. There is money owing
to Beauchamp, and I can't attend to
business now ; but you will see that he
is repaid, Bracknell explained it all
to me, but I have forgotten. He promised
that the money should be paid,
though."

'' It shall be paid, papa," said Lady
Mildred.

'' Thank you, my dear. You have
been a good daughter and you will bea
good wife. I wish you all happiness."

These were the last intelligible words
that he said. He lingered on for some
days after this, but soon sank into a state

of semi-consciousness, in which at last
he passed quietly away. My mother
says that he did his duty according to
his lights and will be judged by that
standard ; and perhaps it may be allowed
that in this instance she does not push
charity beyond all reasonable limits.

His titles died with him, except that
of the barony of Bracknell, which is of
ancient creation and which has passed
to his daughter. By her also have been
inherited his estates, which, although still
heavily encumbered, will doubtless recover
themselves in time under their present
judicious management.

Jim's marriage was a very quiet affair,
the bride being in deep mourning at the
time for her father and brother ; but
Lady Wentworth, who came down to take

charge of the orphan after Lord Staines's
death, considered it undesirable that the
ceremony should be too long postponed ;
so good Mr. Turner tied the knot, and
the young couple have been living at
Elmhurst ever since in a seclusion which
I dare say is agreeable to both of them,
but of which the county does not altogether
approve. Jim tells me that the
debt of honour bequeathed to his wife
has already been paid off, and that he
hopes in the course of a few years to
be able to move to Staines Court, which
is at present shut up. In the meantime
he is very well satisfied with his own
less pretentious abode ; and indeed, if a
man were to be condemned to live in
the country from year's end to year's
end, I don't know that he could find any

pleasant place to live in than Elmhurst,
while I am persuaded that he
would search in vain for a fellow-exile
more amiable and charming than Lady
Bracknell.

The other Lady Bracknell — the viscountess
of that name — has quite recently
decided to put an end to all confusion
of identity between her sister-in-law and
herself by changing her condition. During
the first few months of her widowhood
she resided with her father — a touching
spectacle to the neighbourhood, as she
drove about, with lowered eyelids, in her
weeds. Whether after a time she became
bored with the respectful sympathy of the
neighbourhood, or whether she found herself
better off than she had anticipated, I
do not know ; but she moved somewhat

suddenly to London, set up house there,
discarded crape in favour of pale grey,
and began to dispense a hospitality of
which many people were found ready to
avail themselves. Rumour has it that,
on recovering her freedom, she made a
desperate bid for the Beauchamp property,
and that the fortunate owner
thereof met her advances by requesting
her in so many words to omit him from
the list of her acquaintances ; but I do
not believe this stores Hilda has experience
enough to be aware that flirting
with a married woman and espousing her
after she has become a widow are two
very different things, and it is not likely
that so clear-sighted an observer would
have wasted time and energy upon a
forlorn hope. As a matter of fact, she

has done far better for herself than she
would have done by marrying Beauchamp
; for she is about to be led to the
altar by the eldest son of a duke, and I
hear that the bridegroom's relatives have
received her with marked cordiality. Her
career, so far as it has gone, may serve asa
warning to impulsive young men and
as an encouragement to the daughters
of the clergy.

THE END.

LONDON : RICHARD CLAY & SONS, PRINTERS.

3 0112 052949275
