BY

W. E. NORRIS,

Author OF "MADEMOISELLE DE MRRSAC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:

SMITH, ELDER & CO., 15, WATERLOO PLACE

1881.

(All rights r csc> Ted.)

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

P" CHAPTER PAGE

I. Two Young Men . . . i

11. An Old Lady . . . 31

III The Owner of Southlands . . 52

IV. Principalities . . . 84

V. The Cruise of the "Siren" . . no

VI. The Princess Ouranoff . . 145

VII. Exit Varna . . . 173

viii. At the Moated House . . ' 192

IX. At Croft Manor . . . 212

X. A Correspondence . . 252

XI. Beachborouch Regatta . . 276

Hospitality . . . 297

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/matrimony01norr

CHAPTER I.

TWO YOUNG MEN.

If circumstances should ever lead me to wish
for a place in the legislative assembly of my
country, I think I should like to sit for Beach-borough
in the Conservative interest. I cannot
imagine a more desirable constituency for one
who should understand how to deal with it ;
and, knowing the place as I have done from
my childhood, I flatter myself that I could
content the electors with the least possible
amount of personal inconvenience. I should
never think of addressing them collectively
upon political questions, because it would be
clearly understood between us that I was upon
the right side, whereas the radical minority
must, in the nature of things, be upon the

VOL. I. b

wrong, and that it would therefore be a mere
waste of time for us to harass one another with
matters of detail. All that I should do would
be to dress myself very nicely ; to saunter up
and down the Esplanade, with a beaming
aspect, on summer afternoons ; to subscribe to
the local charities, the band fund, and the
harriers ; to let it be known that I was upon
terms of intimacy with the county families ; and,
if possible, to show myself occasionally in public
arm-in-arm with the Bishop of Lynchester. It
would also be advisable to address the House
briefly from time to time, so as to give the
Beachborough Chronicle an opportunity for observing
: " We would direct the attention of
our readers to the terse and stirring language
in which our respected borough member, who
is ever at his post when questions of national
importance are to the fore, supported the
Chancellor of the Exchequer's bill for the extension
of the county franchise. Those whose
eyes are not blinded by the dust of spite and
faction will peruse with genuine delight these
utterances of one who, while yielding to no man
in veneration for the constitution handed down
to us by our forefathers, is yet as quick as his
illustrious chief to perceive the reforms called
for by the progress of the age, and will hail

Mr. Knowles as emphatically the right man in
the right place."

If, in addition to all this, I could induce my
grandmother to buy her eternal grey silk gowns
on the spot, instead of having them sent down
from London, my popularity would, I feel, be
simply unassailable.

The picture is not without its allurements,
and I declare that there are times when I could
wish I had a little more ambition, and that
old Mr. Pettigrew, who has represented the
borough for the last quarter of a century, would
see the propriety of spending his remaining
years in a well-earned repose. As for one's
constituents, they would give one no bother at
all. They are not the sort of people to come
clamouring for the construction of a gigantic
breakwater at the national expense, seeing that
their little harbour is amply large enough for
their requirements ; and they have no railway
grievances to be redressed, nor, indeed, to the
best of my belief, any grievances at all. So long
as a regiment of infantry occupies the barracks
at West Hill, so long as the summer season
brings a sufficiency of visitors to the spick-and-span
lodging-houses which line the sea front, so
long as the annual regatta, the annual steeplechases,
and the monthly balls at the Assembly

Rooms succeed one another with pleasing regularity,
Beachborough will doubtless continue to
be satisfied with its lot, and will consider itself
to quote the language used by the worshipful
the Mayor at a recent banquet — " the 'handsomest,
the wealthiest, and I will add, gentlemen,
the 'happiest watering-place in the south of
England."

At the same time, I am not prepared to say
that I should care to live at Beachborough all
the year round. The tittle-tattle of the old
ladies over their afternoon tea, the shilling and
half-crown whist and the sixpenny pool at the
club, the broad after-dinner pleasantries of
Admiral Bagshawe and General Blair, the
wrangles between the low-church rector of
Trinity and the ritualist incumbent of St.
Veronica's, the shocking conduct of Captain
Brown and Miss Smith, — all these exciting
accompaniments of existence would, I think,
begin to pall upon one before very long. I
picture to myself some luckless wight, forced
by poverty or other causes to dwell year after
year in the midst of this sounding emptiness,
and I can fancy how, as time went on and the
humours of the place utterly ceased to divert
him, he would grow to feel more and more like
the poor starling in Sterne's " Sentimental

Journey," and how at last — perhaps on some
chilly spring morning, when the wind was in
the east, and the sea was of a dirty grey colour,
and all other objects had a parched blackness —
he would begin to look in an odd, sidelong way
at his razors. For me, however, who am but a
frequent and flying visitor, the bright little town
has never possessed any such gloomy associations,
but, on the contrary, an invigorating
freshness, as of its own salt-smelling air, endeared
to me by a hundred memories of childhood,
boyhood, and maturer years. Some of
my relations, who are not prone to err on the
side of leniency in their judgments upon their
neighbours, are pleased to say that I should
not be so often seen in Beachborough if my
grandmother, who is notoriously well-to-do and
can dispose of her fortune by will in any way she
may think fit, did not happen to reside there ; but
let that pass. I confess to a sneaking fondness
for the place. I hear other people denounce it
as a vulgar, scandalous, dull little seaside town ;
but I can't say that it presents itself to me
quite in that light. I like to escape, every now
and then, from the noise and smoke of Piccadilly
to the breezy Esplanade, where every
other person I meet stops to shake hands with
me, and the lounging boatmen grin and touch

their hats as I pass ; I like my grandmother's
solemn, old-fashioned dinner-parties, and the
more lively festivities at the Assembly Rooms ;
and as I am now an old bachelor of forty-five
years bien sounds, I have ceased to be over-exacting
in the matter of personal amusement,
or, at least, can derive as much thereof as will
content me from studying the virtues and failings
of my fellow-creatures — -a species of relaxation
for the pursuit of which Beachborough
offers special advantages.

After the incidental admission made in the
last paragraph, I need scarcely say that I shall
not figure in the ensuing history, save as an
occasional bystander ; for who ever heard of a
hero of five-and-forty ? I shall retire modestly
to my proper place in the background so soon
as I shall have managed to introduce the real
heroes and heroines ; and these, when they
make their entrance, will be found to be as
young as can possibly be desired. If I could
bring them, their relations and their friends,
forward in a body without further delay, briefly
stating their names and their relative positions,
after the fashion of the list of dramatis persons
on the first page of a play, I should save myself
a good deal of trouble and the conscientious
reader some weariness ; but the unwritten

canons of the art of story-telling do not appear
to allow of such a method ; and I have that
confidence in the judgment of the novel-reading
public that I feel assured that one and all will
unhesitatingly skip any preliminary details that
may seem likely to be tedious. I will therefore
jog on in my own way and with such
abilities as Heaven has granted to me, starting
at the very beginning with that sunny June
afternoon when the Siren came into harbour
with Claud Gervis on board.

It was on that day that I arrived on one of
my periodical visits to Beachborough, and as
I drove from the station to South Crescent,
where my grandmother lives, I passed under a
triumphal arch of evergreens, inscribed with thew
7 ord " Welcome " in very large gilt letters, and
noticed that nearly every house in the High
Street had a banner floating from its first-floor
windows. Mr. Hicks, the butler, with
whom I have an acquaintance of many years'
standing, explained the reason of these festive
displays to me, while unpacking my portmanteau.


The yeomanry is here, sir," said he ; " and
it was thought that the town ought to give
them a proper reception, so as to get them
down again another year, which is good for

trade, sir, you see. They ain't a-bin here — let
me see — not for five years now. Lord Winchester,
he don't like the place, I understand.
Says it's too dam respectable to suit him — ha,
ha, ha ! Dear, dear ! those officers, they are an
audacious lot ! There's his lordship, and Sir
Frederick Croft, and young Mr. Wilmington
from Somerley, you know, sir, and half a dozen
more ; and the way they've a-bin carrying'
on and the games they've a-bin up to you
wouldn't believe. They has their mess at the
Courtney Arms, and they tell me there's that
noise and holbein' and shouting' a-going' on upto
three o'clock in the morning', that nobody
can't get a wink of sleep. Mr. Stubbs, he don't
like it. He says having' such a pack of bedlamite
in his house don't do him no good ;
and a fifty-pun' note won't cover the damage
they've a-done, let alone takin' all the boots
from outside the doors and chucking' of 'em out
o' winder in the rain, and such-like. I see Sir
Frederick a-walking' on the Esplanade with
some young ladies this morning', sir, and he
come across the road and art if you was here.
Wilkins, the butcher, sir, he come off his
horse on parade yesterday and bruised himself
rather bad, so they tell me. They did think at
first he'd broke his leg ; but his lordship hollers

out, ' Take him away ; he's too fat to hurt.
And serve you dam well right, Wilkins,' he
says afterwards ; ' what do you want to get
outside a horse for ? ' he says. ' Why, you
can't get into the saddle without all your
buttons flying' off like a blessed soo de joy,' he
says. They tell me Wilkins was terrible vexed.
Well, well ! Would you like a bottle of the
Margaux or the Lafitte after dinner, sir, if you
please ? "

Hicks is garrulous, but he is a useful creature,
and it is well to keep upon good terms with
him. I said we would have the Lafitte ; and
then, after paying my respects in the drawing-room,
sauntered down towards the club, where
I knew I should meet some old friends, and
hear all the latest local intelligence.

And, sure enough, as soon as I reached the
pretty little house, with its green Venetian
blinds and its spacious verandah facing the sea,
the first object I saw was the yellow waistcoat
of Admiral Bagshawe, and above it his rubicund
visage, which just now had assumed a somewhat
richer tinge than usual. The Admiral was
standing on the steps, with his back to the
door, holding forth to a small group of fellow-members,
and was evidently very angry.

Pooh, pooh ! Stuff and nonsense ! Don't

talk to me ! " I heard him saying ; and I was
aware, from long experience, that these ejaculations
were merely as it were the exordium of a
discourse, and did not imply that any one had
really had the audacity to argue with the admiral.
I'm on the committee of this club, and I
intend to see that the regulations of this club
are observed. And so I shall precious soon
let my young gentleman know, I can tell you.
I shan't make any bones about it ; I shall
simply say, ' Now look here. We make you
honey members of this club, and we show you
hospitality while you're here, and we expect
you to conform to the regulations of this club.
Now let me direct your attention to rule six.
If you think that, because you're a lord, you're
going to be allowed to set regulations at defiance,
you're very much mistaken, my young
friend. And if you want to play old Harry
and make a tom-fool of yourself, you'd better
go to some pot-house and do it there, because
it isn't going to be permitted in this club. So
now you know.' "

And with that the Admiral faced about and
stumped upstairs towards the card-room, never
having vouchsafed me the smallest recognition.

What is it all about ? " I inquired, after
I had shaken hands with the others, who remained
clustered round the doorway.

Oh," answered one of them, " it seems that
Lord Lynchester and some of his friends were
in here last night, playing loo up to all hours,
and I.O.U.'s were flying about pretty thickly
towards the end of the time. The Admiral says
that kind of tiling is a disgrace to the club
and is against the rules, which is true enough,
I believe. But the fact of the matter is, that
he hasn't had a card for the yeomanry ball."

I don't think," said Mr. Pender (late
political agent at Nuggerpore), " that Admiral
Bashaw is the sort of man to be influenced
by any feeling of that kind. I have known
Bagshawe for a good many years, and I certainly
do not think that he would be likely
to be annoyed at not having been invited to
a ball where he would meet every tradesman
in the town ; nor, as far as that goes, that he
would care to take his wife and daughters to
such an entertainment at all. At the same
time, I am bound to say that these yeomanry
officers appear to have strange notions of returning
hospitality. I do not attend balls
myself, and should not have gone to this one
if I had been asked ; but I think that I ought
to have received an invitation. And I have
not received an invitation."

Mr. Pender is a tall, thin, dyspeptic-looking

man, who habitually speaks in deliberate, melancholy
accents, and his voice, as he announced
the unaccountable slight put upon him, was
almost tragic. He gives very good dinners ;
and perhaps that was why the first speaker,
a captain in the 121st Fusileers, at that time
quartered at Beachborough, responded so
readily —

Not sent you an invitation, Mr. Pender ?
Oh, there must be some mistake, you know ;
they couldn't possibly have intended to leave
you out. I know young Croft a little, and I'll
mention it to him."

I beg you will do nothing of the kind,
Captain Harrison," returned Mr. Pender, with
great dignity. " I should consider it most imp
ha — hum — I should be very much annoyed
if you were to bring my name forward in that
way. It is perfectly clear to me that these
gentlemen think themselves too good for Beach-borough
society, and I can only say it is a great
pity that they should have chosen this place for
their annual training. Next year, let us hope,
they will make a better selection. They will
not be missed — they will not be missed."

And a club waiter coming out at this moment,
with Admiral Bagshawe's compliments to Mr.
Pender, and would he be so kind as to say

whether he intended to play whist that afternoon
or whether he didn't, the group broke
up ; and I, following in the wake of the majority,
found myself presently in the billiard-room,
where two gentlemen in their shirt sleeves were
playing pyramids, and where some dozen or so
more were reealincr themselves with tobacco
and one another with the latest gossip.

Is it only old women who spread scandal,
and whisper away characters, and find means
of laying an extra coat of black paint on to the
darkest reputations ? I think I know certain
persons of the other sex whose bald heads cover
brains as small and as active, whose eyes peer
through their spectacles at quite as many
wonderful sights, and whose tongues wag no
less pleasantly behind their false teeth. And
if any one is of opinion that those who listen to
backbiting are themselves in some sort backbiters,
I beg to reply that I am a student of
human nature, in which capacity I am compelled
to put up with much that is disagreeable to me,
and further, that I never believe a word that
one man or woman tells me about another.

With a quiet conscience, therefore, I seated
myself upon one of the leather-covered benches
in the billiard-room, and in less than five minutes'
time had heard how Lord Lynchester had been

seen driving in the country with a yellow-haired
lady, who certainly wasn't Lady Lynchester ;
how Pilkington, of Somerley, hadn't paid his
tradesmen for three years ; how that old reprobate
Washington hadn't been sober for two
hours together since the yeomanry went out ;
and how young Croft had broken his mother s
heart by engaging himself to a Miss Lambert,
a vulgar girl from nobody knew where, who
had followed him to Beachborough, and simply
insisted upon his marrying her.

I had just taken in this last item of news
when a young man entered the room, of whom,
as the reader will hear a good deal of him in
the course of this narrative, it may be well to
give some brief description. I don't know that
I ever heard anybody call Freddy Croft good-looking
; but, on the other hand, I cannot call
to mind a single instance of a stranger having
failed to be attracted by him. The word
attractive, indeed, seems to hit him off better
than any other ; for I take it that nine people
out of ten feel instinctively drawn towards a
young fellow who has the conventional attributes
of his age — a well-knit, vigorous frame, a clear
complexion, laughing eyes, and a countenance
which proclaims aloud that its owner is wholly
unacquainted with care. There are certain

youths who are like the very embodiment of
youth : it is impossible to look at them without
feeling young again one's self for the moment ;
and one is naturally disposed to shake hands
with anybody who can bestow upon one so
agreeable a sensation. Freddy Croft's fair hair,
which curled obstinately, in spite of being cut
as close to his head as the scissors would
go, his blue eyes, and the half-innocent, half-mischievous
expression of his boyish face, made
him at all events a pleasant object to look
upon, and went far to atone for a decided
irregularity of feature ; and if in stature he fell
somewhat short of even the medium standard,
he was too well put together for this to count asa
serious defect. He strolled into the room,
chewing a toothpick, stood for a moment with
his legs very wide apart, looking at the billiard
players, and then, becoming aware of my
humble person, exclaimed —

By Jove ! There's old Knowles. How
are you, Knowles ? I thought it wouldn't be
Beachborough if you didn't turn up somewhere."

I said I had just arrived from London, and
inquired after Lady Croft.

Oh, she's all right," answered the young
man, a momentary cloud passing over his brow.
She's down here ; and Florry too. I say,

come out and take a turn on the Esplanade ;
you can't like sticking in this stuffy place on a
fine summer's afternoon."

Certainly it was pleasant out of doors than
in. A brisk breeze from the south was chasing
little white-crested waves across the blue expanse
of the bay ; the wooded hills that rise
to the westward of the town were half in
sunlight, half in shadow ; the band of the
121st, installed beneath a freshly painted and
gilt kiosk, was playing a selection of airs from
Les Cloches de Corneille," and the elite of
the resident gentry and visitors (to borrow
the favourite expression of the Beachborough
Chronicle) were promenading slowly up and
down within earshot of these lively strains.
We joined the crowd ; and my companion was
pleased to be extremely facetious at the expense
of some of its members.

I'll trouble you for those two girls with the
frizzed hair ! — did you ever see anything like
them out of the Zoo ? Well, they're the
beauties of Beachborough, and some of those
121st fellows are always after them. That
parasol with the white lace that the one on
the off side is carrying is a joint affair : she
and her sister have it turn and turn about.
I know, because, the other day, while they

'were sitting down, I came behind them and
dropped a spark from a fusee on to it, so as
to recognize it again. Here comes General
Blair, with his wife in her purple silk. By
Jove ! I shouldn't care to be in the General's
shoes. Do you know why she always wears
her bonnet and cap-strings tied under her chin,
like that ? Why, because she has a beard
three inches long. She has, really. Pilkington
saw it the other night at a dinner-party, and
he swears it gave him the jumps to that extent
that he couldn't eat a thing afterwards. Look
at old Miss Pennefather prancing along, with
her nose in the air. That old girl will have
a bad accident one of these days if she will
go on carrying her head so high, and not
looking where she's going to. Somebody
asked my mother to call upon her last year,
and a week afterwards she turned up at Croft
to return the visit — drove all the way in a
one-horse fly. We were sitting in the music-room
— you know the room ; you go down
three steps into it — when she arrived. In she
comes, all smiles, tossing her old head and
holding out both her hands, — never sees the
steps — comes down with no end of a clatter
on her nose and knees — recovers herself badly,
staggers on for a yard and a half, and then

VOL. I. C

hurls herself into the arms of old Courtney,
who was sitting bolt upright in his chair as
usual, and sends his hat spinning in one direction
and his tea-cup in another. You ought
to have seen Courtney's face. I wouldn't have
missed it for a hundred pounds."

And at the recollection of this delightful
episode Freddy broke into a peal of laughter
which might have been heard from one end
of the Esplanade to the other. The passers-by
smiled back upon him good-naturedly enough,
and seemed to take no offence when these
outbursts of merriment were renewed again
and again, though I fear that it must have
been sufficiently obvious, from the manner in
which my light-hearted friend nudged me with
his elbow and even pointed with his stick, that
the subjects of his jokes were not very faraway.
Beachborough is nothing if not decorous,
and I have little doubt that if a member
of its own society — myself, for instance, or one
of the officers of the 121st — had chosen to
behave in this obstreperous fashion, he would
have been made to feel that he was misconducting
himself ; but a baronet with large
estates in the county is a privileged person
and, indeed, it was only a few days later that
Miss Pennefather asked me whether I did not

think Sir Frederick Croft a delightful young
man. " So unaffected, and so full of fun," she
said.

For my own part, it amused me very well to
lean against the iron railings, with my back to
the sea, and listen to my companion's candid
remarks upon the ladies and gentlemen who
defiled past us, though I confess that their
appearance did not move me to laughter quite
so easily as it did him — perhaps because I
knew them all so well. But at length two
total strangers hove in sight, and I was roused
to attempt a little criticism on my own score.

Who on earth can that over-dressed old
woman be ? " says I, not very prudently. " The
young lady with the startling complexion and
the finely developed bust is her daughter, no
doubt. Have they come down here with designs
upon the regular army or the auxiliary forces, I
wonder ? "

Freddy's countenance changed a little. " Oh,
those are the Lamberts," said he. " Awfully
nice people. I'll introduce you, if you like."

So this was the " vulgar girl from nobody
knew where," and her mamma. I got a bow,
or rather a nod, from each of the ladies when
my name was mentioned ; but neither of them
appeared to think my original observation on

the fineness of the afternoon worthy of notice,
and they turned their whole attention forthwith
to my neighbour, whom they, so to speak,
surrounded and took possession of in a somewhat
ostentatious manner.

We have been looking for you everywhere,
Sir Frederick," said the elder of them reproachfully.
" I am afraid you forget your appointments
very easily."

Never, Mrs. Lambert, I assure you. I
couldn't be everywhere, could I ? but if you
had looked for me on the Esplanade, where
we arranged to meet, you would have found
me vainly sweeping the horizon in search of
you with Knowles's eye-glass : wouldn't she,
Knowles ? And here have I been for the
last three quarters of an hour."

Oh, Sir Frederick, Sir Frederick ! we
arranged to meet at the end of the pier, as
you know very well. Perhaps you made two
appointments, and we are interfering with
some one else who is looking out for you. Shall
we go home and leave him, Kate ? "

Nonsense, mamma," returned Miss Lambert,
briskly. She was certainly a handsome young
woman, though it was obvious that she had
made use of art to enhance the charms bestowed
upon her by Nature. " Where shall we walk ? "

she continued, addressing my young friend,
who, with his elbows resting on the railings, was
contemplating her admiringly. " Shall we go
down to the harbour and see the yacht that
came in this afternoon ? I want to have a
nearer view of her, and I am sick of hearing
the band play."

All right," answered Freddy, laconically,
straightening himself up, and stepping to her
side.

And so the pair coolly marched off, leaving
me to follow them with the duenna. I did not
want to walk with Mrs. Lambert ; neither, to
judge by her manner, did she particularly want
to walk with me ; but one can't always select
one's companions in this world, and I thought
it would be rather too ill-natured to face to the
righteous, and let the old woman choose
between playing gooseberry or loitering behind
alone. Moreover, I am not easily bored, and
can amuse myself by watching the ways of old,
as well as of young women. This one belonged
to the class which flourishes in watering-places
and is to be found in great profusion,
during the summer months, at Swiss 
and German springs. She wore a great
many bracelets ; a broad gold chain, from
which a locket depended, encircled her throat ;

her pale yellow gloves were too tight for her,
and were a little grimy about the knuckles ;
she moved with a slow, majestic gait, and
allowed her dress to trail in the dust. As she
knew nothing about the stranger to whom she
had just been introduced, she was pleased to
adopt a strictly guarded attitude, receiving my
advances with some hauteur, and being careful
to give tone to her remarks by many references
to the peerage. I always make it a rule to suit
my conversation to my company, so whenever
she mentioned her dear friend Lady This, I
promptly retorted with my aunt the Marchioness
of That ; and thus we advanced, upon terms of
mutual distrust, till we reached the quay, beside
which the beautiful Siren was lying, with her
sails still in confusion on her deck.

When we came up, Freddy, who knows
about as much of ship-building as he does of
Sanscrit, was bending down to survey the
yacht's lines, with his hands on his knees and
that unnaturally wise expression on his face
which I have seen him assume when asked to
give an opinion upon a horse, while Miss Lambert
was exclaiming, in a loud voice, "What
lovely white decks ! what a charming broad
staircase ! — companion, one ought to call it,
oughtn't one ? I must know who the owner is ;

I should like to make his acquaintance. Do
call that man, Sir Frederick, and ask him who
his master his."

Take care," said Freddy, looking rather
alarmed ; " they'll hear you on board."

Well, and if they do ? I suppose they won't
run out and bite me, will they ? I'll ask myself,
if you are too shy. I say, my man, what is
your master's name ? "

The weather-beaten, good-humoured-looking
skipper who was thus unceremoniously hailed,
advanced to the side, looked up at his fair
questioner with some amusement and a good
deal of admiration, raised his finger to his gold-laced
cap, and answered, " Mr. Gervis, miss."

"Jervis, Jervis," soliloquized Mrs. Lambert,
whose voice was as loud as, and rather deeper
than her daughter's. " I know all Lord Castle-court's
family ; but they call themselves Jarvis.
There are the Jervoises of "

But at this point Mrs. Lambert faltered and
stopped short ; for, while she had been speaking,
a young man had appeared at the top of the
companion, and it was evident that her speculations
had been overheard.

"We spell our name with a G.," said he
composedly. " I don't know whether that will
help you at all."

I hope Mrs. Lambert felt as uncomfortable
for the next few seconds as I did ; but the
awkwardness of the situation was put an end toby
an exclamation from Freddy.

By Jove ! then it's the man himself ! I was
wondering whether by any chance it could be
you. Gervis, old boy, don't you know me ? "

Why, I do believe it's little Croft ! " cried
the other, after a moment of hesitation.

Of course it is. Where on earth have you
been hiding yourself all these years ? Nobody
seems to have heard a word of you since you
left Eton. I thought you must be dead — I did,
really'

Oh, I have been abroad," answered the
yachtsman, who had now stepped on shore, and
while he and his former school-fellow were
shaking hands and questioning one another,
I had time to form a guess at his identity.

With the exception of my grandmother, I
suppose that no one in Beachborough was ever
upon speaking terms with old Colonel Gervis.
He was an awful and somewhat mysterious
personage, who used to strike terror into my
boyish soul, upon the rare occasions of his visits
to South Crescent, by glaring at me in silence,
and then asking me abruptly how long it was
since I had been flogged, and who, in after

years, never deigned to take any notice of meat
all. I have heard the story of his life scores
of times from my grandmother; but it is not
relevant to the matter in hand, and readers
shall not be troubled with it. All that Beach-borough
knew of him was that he was a soured,
ill-tempered old man, who had quarrelled withall
his friends, and who dwelt in complete
solitude at Southlands, his house on the hill
behind the town, seldom stirring beyond his
own park gates, and admitting no visitors within
them. All sorts of stories were current about
his eccentric habits, his supposed great wealth,
and so forth ; but the man lived so entirely
apart, that even Beachborough could not find
much to say about him, and less interest was
felt in him personally than in the question of
who would succeed to his property at his death.
As to whether Southlands was entailed or not
there was some uncertainty ; but it had been
ascertained that the old gentleman had a half-brother
living ; and with regard to this half-brother,
rumours of a not very satisfactory kind
were afloat. Some people, it is true, averred
that he was nothing worse than a valetudinarian,
who had fixed his residence abroad from considerations
of health ; but the majority inclined
to the belief that, if he had not been transported

for felony, he had at least been compelled
to fly the country by reason of his
debts ; and, as Admiral Bagshawe would often
remark, " A man doesn't keep away from
England summer and winter unless there's a
good reason for it. Don't tell me. Has anybody
ever seen the fellow's face, or heard of
anybody else who has ? " This was felt to be
very nearly conclusive.

Now, at the time when this story opens,
Colonel Gervis had been dead some months,
and if I had been in Beachborough during that
period, I should doubtless have heard many a
bold surmise and authoritative statement as to
the advent of the heir. Having been absent, I
had not given the subject much thought ; but
now it did not require the deep mourning in
which this young yachtsman was clad to convince
me that some relation of the defunct misanthrope
had appeared upon the scene at last.
And presently all doubt was removed by a
remark of Freddy's which I overheard.

And so you have come to take possession
of Southlands, eh ? "

To which the other replied, " Well, I have
come to try and get things in order a little."

Mrs. Lambert, who had been listening
eagerly to the colloquy between the two friends,

here glanced involuntarily towards the heights
on the further side of the harbour, where the
chimneys of Southlands could be distinguished
above an intervening belt of trees.

Is he the heir to that charming place ? "
she whispered. " How very handsome he is !
don't you think so ? And so — so — odd and
striking-looking."

The good lady had forgotten all her 
in her thirst for information,
and I perceived at once that she must have
more than one marriageable daughter on hand.
Looking at the new comer with more dispassionate
eyes than hers, I could not but concur
in her admiring opinion of his outer man. I
sometimes think that Claud Gervis at the age
of three and twenty was as perfect a specimen
of manly beauty as I have ever looked upon.
Any one who chooses to stroll from the Palazzo
di Venezia to the Porta del Populo on a fine
winter's afternoon, will probably meet two or
three faces in the course of his walk which
might belong to Claud's twin brother. He will
encounter the same regular features, the same
soft dark eyes, the same oval contour, and the
same clear brown complexion ; but it will be
strange if he discover upon those placid Roman
countenances any trace of that bright vitality

and perceptiveness which caused people to turn
and look at young Gervis a second time in a
crowd ; nor is he likely to see beneath them the
counterpart of Claud's lithe, wiry figure. The
lad puzzled and interested me. He had the
head of an Italian poet ; but his limbs, his
movements, and his clothes were those of an
Englishman. He looked as if he might be a
joint product of both countries — which was the
less surprising, seeing that that was precisely
what he was.

After a time, I found myself returning
towards the sea front with my old woman, of
whose company I was becoming very tired,
while the three young ones strolled on ahead ;
but soon the new arrival, suspecting perhaps
that he was impeding the progress of a flirtation,
fell back and; joined us. Mrs. Lambert,
who had recovered quickly from the embarrassment
occasioned by the manner of her introduction
to this eligible youth, attacked him at
once.

I am so glad to have met you, Mr. Gervis,"
said she, turning upon him a venerable figurehead
wreathed in smiles; because, do you
know, ever since we have been in Beachborough,
we have been longing so much to see that
lovely place of yours. Now that you have

come, I hope you will be very kind, and let us
walk round the gardens some day. Flowers
are quite a mania of mine — flowers, and — and —
shrubs, and "

"Turf?" suggested the young man. " One
generally finds all three in English gardens,
and I dare say you will find them at Southlands.
On the other hand, there may be no garden at
all. I can't say myself, because I never was
there."

Really ! This is your first visit to your
domains, then ? How anxious you must be to
see your future home ! The late owner, I
think, was your •"

My uncle : quite right. He was half-brother
to my father, who is the present
proprietor of the place you admire so much. I
have come on here to make preparations for his
arrival."

"Oh!" Mrs. Lambert could not keep a
slight tinge of disappointment out of her voice.
But, upon reflection, she brightened up again.
u You are an only son, are you not ? " said
she.

The young fellow laughed outright. " I am
at present," he answered ; " but I have a stepmother,
as you are perhaps aware. I had no
idea that people knew so much about us in

Beachborough." Then he turned away from
her, and addressed himself to me. " I have a
letter of introduction in my pocket to Mrs.
Knowles from my father," he said. " Do you
think I might call and deliver it tomorrow ?
He told me that she was a very old friend of
his, and that I was to be sure and find her out
at once."

Come this evening," I responded heartily,
seeing a chance of escape from that terrible old
Lambert woman ; " my grandmother will be
delighted to see you."

But is it not too late ? "

Oh, dear, no ; we don't dine till eight, and
it is only a few minutes' walk to South Crescent.
Good-bye, Mrs. Lambert; good-night, Freddy."
And I hurried my new friend away, without
allowing him time to excuse himself. Sic me
servant Apollo.

CHAPTER II.

AN OLD LADY.

My grandmother, dear old lady, is considered
on all hands to be a rather alarming personage;
and though I, for one, have good reason to
know that her bark is worse than her bite, and
that there are few kinder hearts or more liberal
hands in England than hers, yet I cannot but
admit that she has in some degree earned her
character. Nobody, indeed, can be expected to
feel very grateful for the negative benefit of not
having been bitten, while it is undeniably a
positive nuisance to be barked at ; nor do I
wonder at the unwillingness of those whose
failings lie upon the surface to pay frequent
visits in South Crescent. Woe unto those who
lisp in their speech, lounge back in their chairs,
or deliver themselves of affected sentiments in
my grandmothers presence ! If they are not
lowered several pegs in their self-esteem before

they leave the room, the fault will assuredly not
lie with that ruthless disciplinarian. I have
not forgotten the occasion upon which I incautiously
took a friend, who was about to set
out upon the now fashionable journey round
the world, to one of her afternoon tea-parties,
thinking the old lady would feel an interest in
so enterprising a traveller, and quite forgetting,
for the moment, that he belonged to that class
of languid, used-up young men whom she
honours with a special measure of contempt.

And pray, sir, what route do you propose
to follow ? " she inquired, after taking a grim
survey of his well-cut clothes, his patent-leather
shoes, and his striped silk stockings.

He looked up, with an evident sense of
injury at being called upon to undertake the
fatigue of explanations, and began a vague
sketch of his programme. First, he said, he
should " go to Indian — get some shooting,
perhaps — knock about there for a little. Might
go on to Japan afterwards, or China "

Oh no, you mustn't go to China," interrupted
my grandmother gravely.

Something to do," suggested the unsuspecting
one. " Might as well go there as anywhere
else. Why not ? "

I'm told they eat puppies there," says Mrs.

Knowles in a loud, clear voice. Her snubs are
for the most part of this direct description. One
could as easily affect not to notice a slap in the
face ; and the unfortunate at whom they are
launched has to choose between accepting his
chastisement in silence and making himself
ridiculous by getting up and taking his leave
forthwith. At the time when my revered
grandmother mixed a good deal in society, she
was considered, I believe, to have a very
pretty wit ; and if, in the effort to say smart
things, she sometimes succeeded only in uttering
rude ones, I dare say she merely followed
the custom of a generation somewhat more
thick-skinned than ours. Nowadays we have
forgotten how to be witty ; and though doubtless
we can be sufficiently rude, after our own
fashion, when we please, I think we have
learnt to be a little more tolerant of the infirmities
of our neighbours, and to see that it really
is not worth while, for the sake of setting
down one obnoxious person, to make a whole
roomful of people uncomfortable. For my
own part, I declare that I feel so nervous whenever
my grandmother is entertaining strangers,
that I have long ago abandoned the responsibility
of introducing any to her ; and I thought
it only prudent to speak a word or two of warn-vol.

i. d

ing to this odd, foreign-looking young Gervis
as we drew nearer to our destination.

You will find my grandmother a little
eccentric," I said. " She will very likely make
some personal remarks about you ; but I hope
you won't mind. She is very old, you see, and
everybody lets her have her own way."

I know," answered the young fellow, laughing.
" The governor told me all about her ;
and I think she is just the sort of old person
whom I should like beyond everything."

Maybe so ; but it don't follow that you are
the sort of young person whom she will like
beyond everything," thinks I to myself, as Mr.
Hicks and a subordinate in a striped waistcoat
flung back the double doors to admit us.

As it turned out, however, I need not have
felt any misgivings. My young gentleman
stepped across the long drawing-room, made
his bow, and introduced himself with a happy
mixture of ease and respect ; and I perceived
at once that he was not likely to get himself
into trouble by the perpetration of solecisms.
Mrs. Knowles has always confessed to a weakness
for handsome men ; and it may have been
her visitor's good looks, as well as his good
manners, that prepossessed her in his favour.
Or possibly the sound of his name may have

softened her with the stirring: of some ancient
memories. It was, at all events, evident that
she intended to be gracious to him ; and soon
they were deep in conversation.

An old friend ? Oh yes, your father is a
very old friend of mine in the sense that we
were friends in very old days. To be sure,
we haven't seen much of one another for a
trifle of forty years or so ; but we Cares and
Gervises used to be almost like one family
when the century was young. Poor George,
who died the other day, was my contemporary ;
Vincent was many years younger. Long after
I was married to Mr. Knowles, and settled
down at Stone Hall with half a dozen children
to bring up, I remember him as a merry young
fellow, riding over from Southlands on summer
afternoons, and making us all laugh with his
stories of the pranks he and his friends played
at Oxford and in London. My husband used
to shake his head over it all ; and as for old
Mr. Gervis — who didn't like paying long bills,
you understand — he used to swear Vincent
would end upon the gallows ; but I always
liked him and stood up for him. He was a
most amusing rascal and a great chatterton
in those days. You don't recognize that description
of your father, eh ? Ah, well ! time

and trouble make changes in us all ; and some
of us grow silent, and some, like myself, become
babblers in our old age. You are not much
like a Gervis in face."

"No; I believe not. I suppose I take more
after my mother."

Who was an Italian. Yes, yes ; to be
sure. An heiress too, if I am not mistaken.
After Vincent went into the diplomatic service
we didn't see much of him in these parts ; but
I well remember the news of his marriage
coming, and old Mr. Gervis saying, in his
grumpy way, ' Well, he has feathered his nest
anyhow, and that's something ; but he may as
well turn foreigner himself now ; for his wife
shan't enter this house. I'll have no papists
here.' And he kept his word. You Gervises
are an obstinate, wrong-headed lot, do you
know ? "

I don't think my father is."

Hem ! I am not so sure of that. And so
now he is coming back to Southlands, after all.
Does he mean to live here ? "

Ah, that I can't say. I hope he will ; but
I don't think he likes England much ; and as
for Varna, I doubt whether anything would
induce her to make her home out of Paris."

And, pray, who is Varna ? "

Oh, my step-mother. We always call herby
her Christian name — I don't know why,
except that, of course, she is so much nearer
our own age than my father's."

Ah, that Russian princess. I want to hear
all about her. I have only seen your father
once since his second marriage — that time when
he came over to try if he could not hit it off
with poor George, and failed. He was a good
deal adored and altered then. Mr. Gervis, will
you do a kindness to an inquisitive old woman,
and stay and dine with us ? I can't offer you
French cooking ; but Tom there, who is given
to self-indulgence, will take care that you have
a glass of good claret."

A murmur confirmatory of this promise rose
from the arm-chair on the other side of the
room, whence I had been idly contemplating
the rather picturesque study formed by the
figures of the old woman and the lad who sat,
facing one another, in a bay-window, their
respective profiles clearly defined against the
waning light. I have said already that it would
be hard to discover a finer specimen of humanity
in its prime than Claud Gervis, and it may, I
suppose, be added that the human subject in
the final term of its career finds no less striking
a representative in the person of Mrs. Knowles.

I doubt whether grand mamma was ever a
beauty; her nose must always have been a
trifle too long, her jaws too square, and her
mouth too large. But I can imagine that when
those sharp little grey eyes were surmounted
by eyebrows somewhat less bushy, when the
abundant snowy hair under that close-fitting
quilled cap was black or dark brown, when
the little bent figure was straight and strong,
and the cheeks, which are sunken now and
overspread by a network of delicately traced
lines, with here and there a long, deep furrow
among them, were round and firm, — I can
imagine, I say, that at the time of the battle
of Waterloo, Miss Carey may have wrought
some havoc among hearts which are now lying
cold and quiet in their several family vaults.
Now, after a life-journey of over eighty years,
Mrs. Knowles's faculties are still in fairly good
working order. If she puts on spectacles to
read with, she requires no such aid to observe
all that goes on about her ; her ears are as
sharp as her tongue ; she scorns easy-chairs ;
and I believe it is rather for the sake of effect
than for use that she carries the stout, gold-headed
stick with which Grandpa Knowles
used to support his steps in days gone by.
She and young Gervis sat there, in opposite

corners of the window, like allegorical representations
of the Past and the Future striving
to join hands across the gulf of the Present,
and gazed at one another with a certain eager,
wistful curiosity — or so, at least, it seemed tome.
Every now and again in life some such
chance meeting as this startles us with a sudden
vision of what we have been, or shall be.
Shadows from the half forgotten years rise up
and beckon to us reproachfully ; but we cannot
return to them : it is as much as we can do if
we are able to stretch out our hands longingly
towards them, while Time and Fate, inexorable
taskmasters, hurry us along the road, at the end
of which grim old age sits waiting for us. Nay,
it is not even we who were young once, but
some one else, who is no more. Who can resist
the universal law of change, or stand still while
the tread-mill goes round ? One generation
passeth away and another generation cometh ;
and there is one event unto all. I understand
that we should wish our friends happiness,
since it is undeniable that happiness is not
dealt out in equal proportions to mankind ; but
surely it can only be in irony or thoughtlessness
that we drink to their long life. Would you
really like to be old ? Would you like to linger
on here, a worn-out mind inhabiting a worn-out

body, alone among strangers, feeling yourself
an interloper, yet not caring greatly whether
you were so or no, having outlived all that
made life worth possessing, and, worst of all,
contented, in a dull way, with your sad existence
? Is it conceivable that any sane man,
who believes in the immortality of the soul,
can desire such a fate for himself or for those
whom he loves ? What must be, must ; and,
as science advances, length of years seems
likely to fall to the lot of an increasing number
among us ; but it is a thing to be borne, not
to be hoped for.

I was moralizing thus, with my usual
originality and profundity, when that observation
about the claret recalled me to myself
and to a sense of physical emptiness, such as
healthy men ought to feel towards half-past
seven in the evening. Young Gervis was
beginning to excuse himself upon the plea
that there would hardly be time for him to go
back to the yacht and dress ; but my grandmother,
who is accustomed to obedience, and
never gives an invitation unless she intends
it to be accepted, did not choose to let him
off.

Pooh, pooh ! " she said, " you will do very
well as you are, sir. Tom, show Mr. Gervis

a room where he can wash his hands, and tell
them to lay another place." And so that matter
was settled.

Between soup and dessert we heard all about
the Gervis family — all, at least, that our guest
chose to tell us ; and I cannot say that, on this
first evening, he struck me as being at all a
reserved young man. Cross-examination is
always more or less disagreeable, even to those
who have nothing to conceal ; but he submitted
to it good-humouredly enough, answering without
hesitation the questions put to him, and
speaking in an easy, natural manner of his
personal views and wishes. He had been sent
straight to Eton, he said, as soon as he was
old enough to go to school at all, and had there
imbibed a love for his father's country and
people which, it appeared, was by no means
shared by that gentleman himself. " The
governor likes foreigners and foreign life best,"
he sighed ; " and I should like it all too, if I
only had to go abroad for the holidays, you
know, as I used to do. But one gets sick, in
the long run, of knocking about from place to
place, without any object before one, except to
kill time."

I dare say one does, after a few years,"
observed Mrs. Knowles, rather amused with

the young fellow's serious air. " And so you
have been a long time seeing the world, have
you ? "

Oh, yes ; ever since I left Eton. I wanted
to go to Oxford, but the governor would not
let me ; and for the last five years we have
been yachting and travelling all over Europe,
he and I, sometimes taking Gen for a cruise
with us — Genevieve is my sister, you know, —
but more often dawdling from harbour to
harbour by ourselves, making no plans, and
giving no address to anybody, so as to be
quite free. It has been a pleasant life ; but
it couldn't go on for ever ; and I think it was
nearly time now that there should be an end
of it."

High time, I should say," agreed my grandmother.
" The lady with the funny name don't
care about yachting apparently."

What lady ? "

11 1 mean your father's second wife — Mrs.
Gervis — if she calls herself so."

Oh, Varna. She is always called Princess
Ouranoff. No ; Varna lives in Paris with
Gen. Paris is in a sort of way our headquarters.
I am often there ; and the governor

comes too — sometimes."

I see," said Mrs. Knowles ; meaning, no

doubt, to imply that the significance of the
word " sometimes " was not lost upon her.
11 We must get your father to settle down at
Southlands," she continued, after a short pause.
As for Princess Thingummy, if England is
not good enough for her, I suppose she can't
do better than remain in France."

Why is it that, in cases of apparent estrangement
between husband and wife, the lady is
invariably assumed to be in the wrong by her
own sex ? My grandmother, who, for all her
shrewdness, has a feminine facility for jumping
to conclusions, had evidently made up her mind
already that the second Mrs. Gervis was no
better than she should be, and would have been
prepared, had the occasion presented itself, to
accord to her such a reception as vice merits at
the hands of eighty odd years of virtue.

Claud did not take up the cudgels for the
absent Varna, but responded with some eagerness
to the first part of Mrs. Knowles' sentence.

I wish you would ! " he cried. " My great
fear is that he will come here on a wet day, or
that some trifle will make him take a dislike to
the place. If anything of that kind does
happen, he will put it into the hands of an
agent at once, and be off before a week is out.
Do, please, try and convince him that he ought

to be here for at least a part of the year, Mrs.
Knowles."

Of course he ought to be here," replied my
grandmother, decisively. " It is not much of
a property, to be sure ; still, such as it is, it has
been in his family for six or seven generations,
and there would be just enough to do in
managing it to give an idle man an occupation.
If telling him his duty in plain language is
likely to be of any use, you may count upon
me. But I should imagine you would have
more influence with your father than an old
woman whom he hardly knows," she added,
glancing at the young fellow's handsome face,
and thinking, perhaps, of her own dead sons.

He shook his head. " I am a mere cypher,"
he said. " My father is — well, I don't quite
know how to describe him ; but you will see
him yourself before long. As a general rule,
people are rather frightened of him, and very
few understand him. I do, I think ; and we
have always been very good friends, and he
lets me do exactly as I like in almost everything.
But then, he does as he likes too ; and
if our wishes happen to clash, I go to the wall
as is only natural. For instance, I wanted
to go into some profession ; but that did not
suit him, so I had to give up the idea. Now

I want to live in England ; and I am very-much
afraid that that will not suit him either."

In matters of personal convenience, old
folks ought to give way to young ones," said
my grandmother.

And with that unhesitating assertion, which
sounded a little strangely, coming from one
whose children and grandchildren have been
accustomed to hear sustaining a diametrically
opposite theory, she took up her shawl and
her gold-headed cane, and left us to finish the
claret.

Theory and practice have so little to say to
one another, alas ! It would have been personally
convenient to me, any time during the
last quarter of a century, to be allowed to
smoke an occasional cigar or two, at night, in
some part of the house in South Crescent ;
but as I have never had the audacity even to
hint at such a wish, I am in the habit, while
staying under my grandmother's roof, of betaking
myself to the club about ten o'clock ; and
thither I presently conducted my young friend.

In the smoking-room we discovered Freddy
Croft, together with several other officers of
the Royal Lynshire Yeomanry Cavalry, one
of whom, with his legs gracefully disposed
upon the table before him, was asleep and

snoring, while the others were apparently just
awake enough to keep their cigars alight and
to refresh themselves with occasional draughts
from the tall tumblers which stood within reach
of their arms. Freddy seated himself beside
us, and explained that they were going to have
a turn at loo " soon, but were waiting until
Old Fireworks " — under which jocular pseudonym
I understood him to designate my
esteemed friend Admiral Bagshawe — should
have gone home to roost.

He's upstairs, having his last rubber of
whist, and a deuce of a long time he takes
over it too," said the impatient gambler.
Somebody told Lynchester we had better
not show in the card-room till he had cleared
out. It seems they have some rule here about
not allowing games of chance, and this superannuated
ass might make it unpleasant for us,
they say, because he's in no end of a rage at
not having been asked to our ball. You'd
think an old fossil like that wouldn't care much
about balls ; but there's no pleasing some
people. By-the-by, Gervis, you must honour
our hop with your company ; it'll be the grandest
sport you ever saw. All the men ask their
friends, you know — in fact it's supposed to be
their ball really, — and half of them are sure to

be screwed before the evening is over. You're
coming, of course, Knowles ? "

Well, no. I am in the same boat with
Admiral Bagshawe and the other fossils," I
replied ; " I haven't been asked."

Oh, that was because nobody knew you
were here. You shall have a card tomorrow
morning. The fact is, Lynchester didn't want
to invite any Beachborough people at all. He
said they'd only make unpleasant remarks about
everybody, and ten to one they'd stay till the
end, and spoil all the fun. However, Lady
Lynchester and my mother and some of the
other ladies went to him, and told him it would
never do ; and now, I believe, a good lot of
the natives are coming. I don't know why old
Bags was left out, I'm sure."

I think," observed the sage and experienced
person to whom this information was communicated,
" that Lord Lynchester and all of
you are making rather a mistake. You will
earn far more enemies for yourselves by inviting
half the town than by inviting nobody ; and,
after all, it is always better to avoid making
enemies."

Ah, yes ; so some of the fellows were
saying. But Lynchester is a queer-tempered
chap, you know. He isn't best pleased at the

way people here have talked about him already;
and if he was bothered any more about this
ball, the odds are that he'd sive them something
to remember him by. Get into the cloak-room,
and fill all their pockets with jellies and
creams, or something of that kind, don't you
know."

"Who is Lord Lynchester?" Gervis asked.
I think I should rather like to know him."

Freddy pointed to the sleeping form in the
arm-chair, and explained that his lordship was
the Colonel of the Lynshire Yeomanry, and the
largest landed proprietor in the county.

I don't know whether you'll exactly like
him," he added, doubtfully ; " it isn't every one
who does. But of course you must know him,
if you're going to settle down here. Come and
take a hand at loo with us presently, and I'll
introduce you to him, and to most of your other
neighbours too."

Very well," answered Claud, after a moment
of hesitation. " Only I don't want to play for
high stakes or to lose much money, Croft."

All right, old man ; you can stop whenever
you like. I've been dropping rather more than
I care about lately myself ; so to-night I've only
brought a fiver in my pocket, and as soon as
that's gone I shall shut up."

Claud said he did not mind going as far as
five pounds ; and soon afterwards the veterans
were heard stumping down the staircase ; the
sleeper awoke ; the other young men rose and
stretched themselves ; and presently I was left
in sole tenancy of the smoking-room. It was
not suggested that I should join the loo party ;
nor, indeed, should I have thought for a moment
of doing so, had I been asked, though it is
possible that, like Mr. Pender, I might have
felt flattered by having the option offered to me.
That is the worst of associating with young
men : they are for ever unconsciously reminding
one that one is no longer young one's self.

' Something we gain with age ; but youth
has departed,' " thinks I to myself, as I stroll
along the sea front under the stars, and let
myself in with my latch-key into the hall,
where Hicks is waiting to open a bottle of
soda-water for me and to ask a few questions
about the young gentleman as they do tell him
is a nephew of hold Colonel Gervis of South-lands.
Ah, Hicks, my old friend, do you
remember the days when that latch-key was
put into requisition at hours of which you were
careful to keep your respected mistress in
ignorance ? You are discreet, Hicks, and you
do not remind the middle-aged gentleman who

VOL. 1. E

steps in so demurely at eleven o'clock that he,
too, once knew something of the seductive
game of loo ; you allude no longer to the
terrible headaches he sometimes woke with of
a morning, nor to those cunningly devised
potions by means of which you enabled him
to present himself at the breakfast table, and
go through the appearance of eating. Another
race hath been, Hicks, and other — hem ! well,
never mind about the palms. Every dog has
his day ; and now that mine has passed by,
I have the more leisure to contemplate the
proceedings of my successors in those flowery,
thorny paths which I have left behind me.
From the serene height of middle age I look
down upon them — upon their laughter and
dances, their vain ambitions, their foolish loves,
their absurd stumbling and floundering. Can
you for one moment suppose that I would step
down again and join them, if I could ? Do
you imagine that anything would induce me
to sit up till the small hours, gambling with
Lord Lynchester and his friends, like those two
silly youngsters ? No, no, Hicks, you are too
well acquainted with me to misjudge me so
greatly. I know that in your heart you have
a profound respect for me, as for a man of the
world, who takes proper care of his health and

his comfort, who has contrived to steer clear
of the shoals of matrimony, and who has ever
kept a steady eye upon the main chance.
Hand me my flat candlestick, Hicks, and let
me go upstairs and get to bed before midnight,
as all respectable persons should. I envy no
man, and would not exchange the accumulated
wisdom of five and forty years against all the
callow dreams of early life. At the same time,
I think those revellers might have gone through
the form of asking me to join in their game.

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

CHAPTER III.

THE OWNER OF Southwards.

There was a great disturbance, I remember, in
the Beachborough Club when a modest, but
resolute phalanx of members, headed by Mr.
Ward, the clergyman of the parish, declared
their intention of enforcing the rule prohibiting
conversations to be carried on in the reading-room.
Putting a strictly literal interpretation
upon the statutes of the establishment, it was
not to be disputed that the malcontents had
right on their side ; but, on the other hand,
there was a general feeling that such old and
influential residents as Admiral Bagshawe,
General Blair, and a few others, were privileged
persons, and that an attack directed against
one of their most cherished habits assumed at
once something of a personal character. In
this light, indeed, it was regarded by the
Admiral himself, who summoned an extraordinary

general meeting of the club forthwith,
and delivered himself thereat of a speech so
eloquent, and so full of sarcastic allusions to
gentlemen who were not content with having
all the talking to themselves on Sundays, but
must needs try to shut their neighbours' mouths
for the rest of the week into the bargain, that
poor Mr. Ward, the meekest and most inoffensive
of men, would probably have apologised
and withdrawn his motion, had he not been
unexpectedly seconded by Mr. Pender. Mr.
Pender happened at that time to be in the
thick of one of his periodical feuds with his
old friend the Admiral, and when he rose
slowly to his feet, significant smiles and lodgings
of the elbow were exchanged among the
ranks of the cowed opposition. He said he
would name no names, and it would be his
endeavour to avoid giving offence even to
certain rather over-susceptible individuals ; but
he did think the line ought to be drawn at
shouting. Doubtless there were infirmities
which in the course of time and nature might
fall upon any one of us ; but he would suggest
that ear-trumpets were to be purchased at a
comparatively trifling outlay. For his own
part, he pleaded guilty to the infirmity of weak
nerves. For years he had silently borne the

excruciating creaking of a certain gallant
gentleman's boots. That was not conversation,
and he was not entitled to complain of it.
For years he had put up with the same gallant
gentleman's exasperating habit of blowing his
nose at frequent intervals in such a manner as
to shake the house to its foundations. The
gallant gentleman might play " God save the
Queen " on his nose, if he pleased — indeed, he
(Mr. Pender) had often fancied that he was
trying to do so, — still that would not be
conversation. But when, added to all this,
the gallant gentleman took to bawling and
cursing

Here the Admiral, in a stentorian voice, said
he had not come there to listen to pot-house
personalities. The orator retaliated ; other
members joined in the fray ; hot words passed ;
finally, the committee resigned en masse ; and
for a time it really looked as if all order and
authority had come to an end, and anarchy was
staring us in the face.

At length, however, a peace-maker, whom
modesty forbids the present chronicler to
specify, stepped in, and proposed a compromise.
On the opposite side of the passage to the
reading-room, there was a room which had
hitherto been used for no especial purpose,

which was seldom entered, and which in truth
was but half-furnished. The succession that,
with the aid of the surplus funds in the hands
of the treasurer, this apartment might be transformed
into a cheerful meeting-place for those
who liked to smoke a pipe over their leading
articles, and to exchange a few remarks between
the whiffs of it, was fortunate enough
to meet with universal acceptance. Harmony
was restored ; the committee withdrew their
resignation ; we all shook hands upon it ; and
from that day forth the morning-room of the
club became the favourite haunt of the Beach-borough
magnates.

In the forenoons, when officers had arduous
military duties to attend to, and other young
men were engaged in such out-door pursuits as
their several tastes and the season of the year
inclined them to, the veterans had it all their
own way there. Between eleven o'clock and
mid-day they would drop in, one by one, and,
after fidgeting about a little, and glancing at the
papers which lay upon the table (I fancy they
had read their Times at home, and did not come
to the club to hear news of the outer world),
would gravitate towards the bow-window, where
they would stand in a group, telling the old
tales, chuckling over the old jokes, and retailing

the old local chit-chat, season after season, and
year after year. Outside, perhaps, the sun was
shining down upon the far-stretching expanse
of blue sea, the children were playing upon the
beach, the gulls were poising themselves and
swooping this way and that, like flashes of light
against the sky ; or perhaps a roaring sours
was driving great green breakers against
the revetment, and sending showers of spray
high above the very roofs of the houses ; but
the old fellows heeded these sights no more.
If their dimmed eyes wandered at all from
one another's faces, it was only to scan some
passer-by on the pavement ; their dulled hearing
was strained to catch no sweeter sound than
some whispered scandal ; their whole lives were
contracted into an ever-narrowing passage, at
the end of which Death stood quietly waiting,
and snatched one of the little coterie every now
and again. From such an old age as this
Domine libera nos ! I declare that, of all the sad
sights in this sad world, there are few to me
more pathetic than that of a knot of old fogeys
in a club window. Mayhap they have done
good service in their day. They have fought
their country's battles by sea and land ; they
have had their share of honour and fame ; at
home, in the faded leather case, they keep

medals and crosses earned in campaigns which
the world has forgotten — nay, . which they
themselves have half forgotten too ; and now
they have got to kill Time as best they may, till
Time mercifully takes his turn of the game and
kills them. They have not many resources,
poor old souls ! They don't care much for
reading ; they are apt to be terribly prosy after
dinner ; they lose their old tempers somewhat
easily over their whist ; young men and boys
make fun of them ; — perhaps it is not very
surprising that they should take so profound
an interest in trifles, and discourse so lengthily
upon matters which are no business of theirs.
Hear a sample of their conversation, as they
stand on the accustomed strip of carpet, which
has been worn threadbare by the Admiral's
creaking shoes, while the June sunshine streams
through the open windows, and the waves rise
and fall upon the shingle with a sleepy undercurrent
of sound. It is deaf General Blair who
is speaking.

This man Gervis is a devil of a fellow,"
says he, in those slow, drawling accents which
I know so well. " I don't know what people
down here mean to do about calling on him,
but I understand that they won't let him into
a single respectable house in Paris — won't have

him at any price. Married two heiresses ;
poisoned one, got a separation from t'other, and
holds on to the money. Clever rascal, too, I
believe. They were devilish sorry to lose him
in the diplomatic service. Stuck to him as long
as they could, but what with one thing and
another, it really wouldn't do, you know, and
they had to give him a hint to go. I heard the
whole story, the other day, at the Senior from
Allonby — you know Colonel Allonby, Admiral."

Allonby is as blatant an ass as ever brayed,"
growls the Admiral, who looks with suspicion
upon all hearsay information, save such as is
imparted by himself.

Just so — Allonby, who commanded the
third battalion of the Rifle Brigade," pursues
the deaf narrator serenely. " Allonby is a man
who goes a good deal into society and knows
everybody, and I thought it would be as well
just to ask him what he had heard of this
man before I decided on leaving a card at
Southlands."

From what I have been told," observes
Major Davis (half-pay, late Bengal Staff corps),
I doubt whether he would have returned your
visit, if you had. As far as I can make out,
the man's as mad as a March hare. Barton,
the town-clerk, was over in Paris last week,

and he found out his address, and took the
trouble to call upon him half a dozen times,
hoping to have a friendly talk with him about
that right-of-way question that there was so
much bother with in the old man's time ; but he
never eot farther than the door, nor received a
card in return. At last, after he had written,
begging for an appointment, he saw the son — ■
the young fellow who is here now— who told
him it wasn't the least use his coming again, for
he was quite certain his father wouldn't talk
business with him or anybody else. And then,
when Barton asked whether Mr. Gervis intended
living at Southlands, he muttered something
about getting the doctor's leave first.
Looks queer, doesn't it ? There is madness in
the family, you know."

Not at all. Oh dear no ! Nothing of the
kind. Pooh, pooh ! " This series of staccato
rejoinders proceeds from the Admiral.

Well, I only state what I believe to be the
case," says Major Davis, slightly offended. " I
consider the Gervises to be a decidedly crazy
family. In my opinion, the late man was a
madman."

In my opinion," retorts the irrepressible
Admiral, " he was as sane as you are — saner.
The fact of the matter is that nobody knows

anything of his brother, except that there must
be something shady about him. Else, why
should he never come to England ? "

Mr. Pender, who has listened to the foregoing
conversation with a faint, superior smile,
here observes that he has heard something upon
tolerably good authority about the new owner
of Southlands, but does not care to talk about it.

No, Major Davis, if you will excuse me,
I should prefer to hold my tongue. You will
soon find it out for yourselves, and I never
break through my rule of keeping silence when
the character of my neighbours is under discussion.
Besides, I should only be contradicted,
if I did speak."

I don't know who's going to contradict
you here. What d'ye mean ?" asks the Admiral,
fiercely.

Oh, nothing," answers Mr. Pender, still
smiling pleasantly. " Did you read Gladstone's
speech at Greenwich yesterday, Admiral ? "

"No, I didn't. I never read Gladstone's
speeches, and never will," replies the Admiral,
snappishly. " If there is a thing I can't stand,
it's a man who won't say what he means," he
adds presently, alluding, no doubt, to some one
not so far away as the liberal statesman.

General Blair is quite of the Admiral's way
of thinking, and so is Major Davis.

Upon my soul, I don't see the necessity for
so much caution, Mr. Pender," remarks the
latter. " It's rather a poor compliment to us,
I must say. After all, we aren't a pack of old
women, to go babbling about all we hear, are
we ? "

Out with it, Pender — out with it ! You
know you're dying to tell," chimes in the
General, with a senile chuckle.

Thus urged, Mr. Pender consents to communicate
his intelligence. Glancing first over his
right shoulder, then over his left, he draws a
step closer to the eager warrior, whose hand
is raised expectantly to his ear. " The truth

is " he begins, in a low, impressive voice.

And then he lifts his closed hand to his lips,
elevates his little finger, and throws back his
head.

Oh, that's it, is it ? "

God bless my soul, you don't say so !
Well, I half suspected as much myself."

Ah, the old story ! His father was just the
same, you know."

Mr. Pender has bottled up his dose of
calumny as he does his trumps at whist, and
now reaps the reward of self-restraint in the
shape of a general acceptance of his theory.
At first some feeling of disappointment was

apparent that matters were no worse ; but when
Major Davis had good-naturedly pointed out
that the fact of a man's being a drunkard by no
means excludes the possibility of his having
killed one wife, ill-treated another, and appropriated
the fortunes of both, but is rather, so to
speak, presumptive evidence in favour of his
having done so, the cronies cheered up again,
and presently trotted off to their respective
homes to luncheon, having agreed that they
would certainly call at Southlands so soon as
the arrival of its iniquitous tenant should be
announced.

"As there will be no lady in the house,"
remarked Mr. Pender, in conclusion, " I shall,
of course, not take Mrs. Pender with me ; and
I should not feel myself justified in holding
aloof from a neighbour because he unfortunately
gives way to intemperance."

Dash it all ! what do I care whether a man
drinks or not ? I shall go because I want to
have a look at the beggar," says the Admiral,
more honestly.

Shall I confess that there was another person
present who felt a similar curiosity ? We all
have our weaknesses ; and I am given to understand
that one of mine is an exaggerated interest
in the ways and manners of persons with whom

I am not called upon by any duty to associate.
Being an unoccupied man, and in need of a
hobby of some kind, I have found one for
myself in the observation of my fellow-mortals ;
and a really original human being is as delightful
a find to me as an original picture by Botticelli
would be to another kind of dilettante.
Not on account of his supposed misdeeds (for
sinners, as we know, can scarcely be considered
rarities in the race to which we have the honour
to belong) was I so anxious to make Mr. Jervis's
acquaintance, but because certain casual
remarks, dropped, in my presence, by his son,
had led me to imagine him a man such as one
does not meet with every day.

Circumstances had thrown me a good deal
into the society of Claud during the first days
of his sojourn in his new home. The young
fellow wanted somebody to consult with and
to assist him in making preparations for his
father's arrival ; and as he could not see much
of Freddy Croft, who, between drill and Miss
Lambert, had little time to spare, I suppose he
made a friend of me in default of a better.

I believe I was of some little use to him in
small matters where he had no personal experience
to guide him — such as, for instance,
in conciliating the old servants of the late

Colonel Gervis, and in inducing them to cooperate
in the re-arrangement of furniture, and
so forth : at all events, he was pleased to say
that he considered himself greatly indebted tome.
The time was too short to allow of our
carrying out all Claud's designs, but between
us we managed to furbish up the old house and
give it an inhabited look, and on that morning
when I played the eavesdropper at the club, I
was on my way to luncheon at Southlands,
where some few details still required notice, and
where I was to have the pleasure of meeting
Mrs. Lambert and her daughter — those ladies
having signified through Freddy Croft that
they were still languishing to behold the park
and garden which had so long been closed
against all intruders.

I dare say love of the picturesque did not
enter for much into Mrs. Lambert's desire to
visit Southlands ; but, as a fact, the pleasure-grounds
of that moderate-sized domain far surpass
in beauty any of those belonging to the
more pretentious mansions of the county. The
late owner of the place had, it seems, a passion
for landscape gardening ; and I don't know
where he could have found a property better
adapted by nature for the gratification of his
tastes. Sometimes, in the old man's time, a

party of Cockney excursionists (for Beach-borough
is but a hundred miles or so from
London, and well within reach of 'Any and
his sweet friends) would apply at the lodge
for permission to take a stroll through the
gardens, receiving in answer a prompt assurance
that their request could not be entertained
for a moment. Against them, as against their
betters, the iron gates remained resolutely shut ;
but when, following the instincts of their race,
they went out sailing in the bay towards evening,
they could, if it so pleased them, enjoy a
distant view of what has always seemed to me
one of the most pleasantly situated country
houses in England.

The Ions: and somewhat monotonous line of
chalk cliffs, topped by bare downs, which forms
nine-tenths of the coast scenery of Lynshire,
takes at Beachborough a sudden inward sweep,
and immediately to the westward of the town
a deep, well-wooded valley, narrowing into a
mere ravine towards its head, cuts for some two
miles into the country. The eye, weary and
dazzled with gazing at white cliffs, white houses,
and a sea and sky which, on the hottest days,
are often also of a whitish hue, turns gratefully
towards those dark, cool woods, and, following
them upwards, rests presently upon a low, irre-

vol. 1. F

gular house, built of grey stone, and standing
with its back against the hill-side. Even from
that distance the terraces, the shrubberies, and
the bright patches of flower-beds that lie about
it can be distinguished, and jaded holiday-makers,
as they look, may indulge their imagination
in picturing to themselves what a pleasant
dream life must be to the idle and rich folks
who dwell amid such enchanted bowers. There
is a park, too, one notices, sloping downwards
in the direction of the town in a succession of
grassy undulations ; but it has not much to
boast of in the way of timber, and such trees
as there are are stunted and blown landwards by
the winter gales which sweep up the valley and
have it all their own way on its eastern and
more exposed flank. The house, facing a point
or two west of south, is sheltered from these
by a shoulder of the hill and by a belt of fir-trees
; and behind it are more trees, growing
gradually thinner and smaller, till the valley
loses itself among corn-fields, which, in their
turn, give place to the gorse and heather of the
moors.

Viewed from the sea, whence alone it can be
seen as a whole, the landscape hereabouts is a
brilliant mass of varied colours ; for even when
the yellow blossoms have fallen from the gorse,

there are mustard-fields here and there, besides
clover and sainfoin and the purple bloom of the
heather that crowns all. A glittering thread
shows itself in places between the trees. It is
the stream, which, as one would expect from the
lie of the land, finds its way along the bottom
of the ravine towards the shore — a tiny streamlet,
yet deep enough to harbour trout in its
innumerable pools. If you were near enough
to it, you would perceive that a pathway follows
its course, crossing and re-crossing it by means
of frequent rustic bridges, and leading past the
house to the open country beyond.

Now this foot-path, which makes a pleasant
short cut from Beachborough to Southlands, is
likewise the shortest way, by a good two miles,
to Northbourne, West Somerley, and several
other inland villages which can only otherwise
be reached from the town by walking along the
Lynchester high-road and turning abruptly to
the left at the point where the Southlands park
palings cease. Whether the public ever enjoyed
a right of way through those shady woodlands
I will not take upon me to determine : it is
certain that no one was ever allowed to exercise
it by old Colonel Gervis ; and as the lawsuit
with which he was so frequently threatened
was never actually brought against him, I am

inclined to think that, as regarded this particular
count in his quarrel with the world, he must
have had right on his side. Be that as it may,
the shady short cut had been a great convenience
to me in my daily visits to South-lands
; and on the morning already alluded to
I turned my steps in the accustomed direction,
thinking to myself, with some inward satisfaction,
as I went, that Mrs. Lambert and her
daughter could hardly be aware of its existence,
and were probably at that very moment toiling
wearily up the dusty hill in a fly.

This fond illusion was abruptly dispelled
before I had advanced a hundred yards into
the wood. Suddenly, above the liquid notes
of the thrushes overhead, the continuous sleepy
murmur of the insects in mid-air and the
babbling of the stream at my feet, arose the
jarring accents of a too familiar human voice,
and simultaneously there appeared, from a
bench behind a tree, an ample human form,
expensively clad.

Oh, you bad man!" cries Mrs. Lambert,
shaking her parasol at me with charming playfulness
; " so you knew of this delightful walk
all along, and never told us about it ! I believe
the truth was you did not want our company."

Have I mentioned that Mrs. Lambert, on

becoming aware of my entire respectability, had
assumed a demeanour of the most nattering
friendliness towards me — so much so, indeed,
that I had latterly wondered more than once,
with some anxiety, whether Mr. Lambert had
as yet gone to his long home ?

Katie and Fred — and Sir Frederick have
gone on," she resumed. " I sat down to rest
for a few minutes and to enjoy this lovely
prospect. Don't you love sitting in the woods
in summer, Mr. Knowles ?"

Yes ; but by the time you get to the house,
you'll find the gnats have been feeding upon
your wrists and ankles," I replied. " At least,
I sincerely trust they have," I added in petty.
After which we resumed our upward way, side
by side, chatting amicably. I am sorry to say
that I have not my grandmother's gift of
snubbing disagreeable people, and can never,
for the life of me, help being civil to a bore.
It is a humiliating thought that, if there were
no easy-going listeners like myself, the race of
bores would probably ere long become extinct.

At the point where the path touches the
boundary of the garden, we came upon Freddy
Croft assisting Miss Lambert to fasten one
of the buttons of her glove ; and I perceived,
from the manner in which the young lady rolled

her eyes and then cast them down, that she
was trying hard to blush. " Is it possible," I
thought, " that Freddy can be such an ass as

to But no, it is not possible. In one respect,

at least, the youths of the present day are more
wide awake than their elders used to be ; and
surely in vain is the net spread in the sight of
any bird ! Nevertheless it is a risky game to
flutter too close to the meshes. I wonder, now,
whether a word in season from an old friend
would be taken amiss."

While I was thus communing with my heart,
we were advancing slowly across a sunny
lawn all ablaze with beds of scarlet geraniums
and cancellaria and verbenas, and presently
emerging from behind a clump of rhododendrons,
found ourselves face to face with Claud
Gervis, upon whose arm an elderly stranger
was leaning.

How do you do, Mrs. Lambert ? How do
you do, Croft ? " said the young man, shaking
hands with his guests. " Let me introduce my
father, who arrived unexpectedly this morning."

The stranger took off his hat, holding it in
his hand, without that hurry to replace it which
an Englishman usually displays, while he
bowed to each of us in turn. He was a man of
something less than middle height, who stooped

a good deal and carried himself with the
fatigued air of an invalid. His hands and feet
were the tiniest I had ever seen upon a male
creature. His waxed moustache was black, as
was also his hair ; but it seemed probable that
both owed something to the appliances of art.
After scrutinizing his features in search of any
expression of character which might be revealed
from beneath those drooped eyelids or about
the lines surrounding the mouth, I gave up the
attempt, on discovering that there was absolutely
no expression there at all. His face was
a colourless waxen mask, which, if it had any
secrets to tell, apparently did not impart them
to casual seekers. Upon the whole, my impression
of him resolved itself into three conclusions
: firstly, that he was a gentleman ;
secondly, that in appearance and breeding he
was a Frenchman ; and thirdly, that he was
either much older than he looked or looked
much older than he was.

When he began to speak, it was in a rather
peculiar, but not unpleasant voice — low and
languid, but as clear as a bell. " I think myself
very fortunate to have arrived in time to welcome
these ladies. I should not myself have
ventured to have invited them into our rough
bachelor quarters ; but Claud has always had

the advantage of me in audacity. I am sure
Miss Lambert understands that a father is not
to blame for attractions which may well make
his son a trifle indiscreet, and I hope Mrs.
Lambert will remember that neither of us is
responsible for the cook."

When Mr. Gervis had concluded this somewhat
equivocal greeting, he almost closed his
eyes, surveying us, with his head laid a little on
one side, after the fashion of an elderly jackdaw;
and a pause supervened, during which I think
we were all wishing ourselves away.

Perhaps Mrs. Lambert had a dim impression
that she was being indirectly accused of gluttony,
for she broke the silence by observing
that she scarcely ever touched anything in the
middle of the day. " I wish one could live
without eating at all. Don't you, Mr. Gervis?"

Mr. Gervis said, Certainly not. He should
be very fond of eating, only he could never get
nice things to eat, somehow. And so the conversation
became general ; and in due course
we reached the house, where I observed that
Mrs. Lambert did full justice to the delicacies
set before her.

The unexpected addition to our party was
felt as something of a restraint by all of us,
except Freddy Croft, who never was known to

exhibit signs of shyness in his life, and whose
tongue was employed no less actively than his
knife and fork.

"What a jolly old house this is! Just the
sort of place I should like to live in. Big
enough to hold as many people as one would
ever care to have staying with one, you know,
and yet not so big as to make one think about
hanging one's self, if one was left alone for a few
days. Stands well, too: I do like a house with
a view. The only thing is, you do want a bit
of level ground somewhere, don't you ? I suppose
there isn't a single place in the park where
you could possibly pitch a wicket. But that
closet matter so much for you, Gervis ; you
never used to dry-bob at Eton, did you ? "

"Very seldom," answered Claud, a little
regretfully. " I wish I had now. There are
so few rivers in England ; and of course one
can get cricket almost everywhere. I can play
after a fashion : not well enough to be allowed
to figure in any of your county matches, though,
I'm afraid."

The lad had already confided to me his
ambition to excel in all the sports which find
favour in the eyes of English gentlemen, and
that his great dread was that his neighbours
might set him down as a muff.

My dear fellow," answered Freddy, reassuringly,
"you don't know what a lot of
duffers we are down here. You 11 do fast
enough. As for the Lynshire eleven, it was
simply a by-word till I took it up, three years
ago ; and even now, taking our performance asa
whole, I should say we turn out about the
worst team in England. I make the fellows
practise, though — that's one thing. You see, /
have plenty of level ground — only too much of
it! By-the-by, Miss Lambert, you have never
seen my ancestral abode, have you ? I flatter
myself that, in point of sheer, uncompromising
hideousness, it hasn't a rival in Europe. You
really ought to come over and have a look at it
some day, you know."

"We have not been asked yet," observed
Mrs. Lambert, smiling archly, and displaying
as fine a set of teeth as can be bought for
money.

A queer look came into Freddy's face for a
moment. Indeed, it was not very likely that
Mrs. Lambert would be invited to enter Croft
Manor so long as his mother presided over that
establishment.

Oh, well, there's nobody there now, don't
you know," he replied, shirking the question
adroitly. " Later on, my people will be coming

down for the summer, and then we shall make
you stand up and be bowled at, Gervis. You
are going to stop here for good now, of course.' '

Well, I hope so. I don't quite know yet."

Oh, you must. The continent's all very
well for a time ; but England's the country to
live in, isn't it, Mrs. Lambert ? "

Oh, the only country," acquiesced that lady.
The English people who regularly reside
abroad are such a very odd lot."

Her daughter made a grimace. Possibly she
may have been shrewd enough to have discovered
that, if there was one thing obnoxious
to her easy-going admirer, it was humbug.
We lived abroad ourselves for ever so many
years, as I was telling you the other day," she
remarked ; " and I must say I enjoyed it immensely."


Ah, yes ; but then you're a lady, which
makes all the difference," said Freddy. " What
is a man to do with himself all day abroad ? I
mean an ignorant beggar like myself, who don't
pretend to care much about churches and
pictures and all that."

Some people do like churches and pictures,"
Claud observed.

You do, I dare say ; but most fellows don't ;
they only make believe. No ; what I think is,

foreign countries are very useful to run over
to once a year — say in April. I can do very-well
with a week of Paris and a fortnight of
Nice and Monaco about that time ; but I don't
want any more. Then there's one's wedding-trip.
I suppose I shall have to spend a month
at the Italian lakes, or some other beastly hole,
then."

I am sure that, when that time comes, you
will be allowed to please yourself, Sir Frederick,"
said Mrs. Lambert, with much amiability.

Nobody is ever allowed to please himself
again after he is married," replied the young
man, sententiously. Whereat Claud laughed,
and Miss Lambert said —

Of course not. Why should men think
they have a right to be selfish all their lives ? n

Katie, my dear ! " exclaimed the elder and
more foolish lady, " you must not say such
things. It is a wife's bounden duty to consult
her husband's wishes before her own."

"Ah, Miss Lambert," sighed Freddy, "if you
will only bear that in mind, what a happy
life yours may be ! "

She will, Sir Frederick ; depend upon it,
she will," cried the fond mother. " I know her
better than to believe all the nonsense she talks.
She may say what she pleases ; but if ever

there was an unselfish girl," etc., etc. So the
old farce went on — the old farce that has been
played so many times, and, strange to say, with
such frequent success.

Mr. Gervis, all this time, had remained perfectly
silent and impassive. Whether he was
listening or not it was impossible to say. Once
I saw him cock his head on one side, and look
at Mrs. Lambert considering ; after which he
shifted it over to the other, and took a brief
survey of Freddy Croft ; but this, so far as I
could observe, was the sole symptom of life that
he manifested for the best part of an hour,
during which time he leant back in his chair,
neither eating nor drinking, nor moving a
feature — the picture of blank weariness.

He did not offer to accompany us when
we passed through the open French windows
of the dining-room, and set out to inspect
the gardens and shrubberies at our leisure.
Probably he was aware that we should be more
at our ease without him, and doubtless he, on
his side, was likely to be a shade less bored
in his own company than in ours. We duly
visited the conservatories, Claud leading the
way and doing his duty as showman very
creditably ; we said what was proper to the
head-gardener, who directed our attention to

his rare exotics ; we wandered up the winding
gravel paths and among the clumps of rhododendrons
and azaleas which clothe the slopes
behind the house ; and then one of the party,
whose temperament inclines him towards indolence
on summer afternoons, lagged behind,
till, taking advantage of a friendly thicket, he
slipped aside unnoticed, and laid him down
upon a grassy bank to rest.

It was a pleasant place that I had chosen,
under the shade of a tall magnolia. Far beneath
me stretched the sea, upon whose glassy
surface a few fishing-boats lay becalmed ; a
hanging haze of smoke to the left showed the
position of the town, and from it woodlands
trended gently upwards to meet the lawns and
terraces and parterres upon which the man
who was dead had spent so much time and
money. As I lay there, enjoying my cigar,
I could fancy I saw him pottering about hither
and thither among the workmen, criticising this,
condemning that, quarrelling with his gardener,
perhaps asking himself inwardly, what, when
all was said and done, was the good of it all — a
grim, lonely old figure. "Where is he now?"
I wonder, clasping my hands behind my head,
and staring up at the cloudless sky. " Would
he be vexed if he could see the strangers

making free with the sacred enclosures which
were his once and will never be his again
throughout eternity ? We go hence, and are
forgotten ; but do we forget ? Do all earthly
treasures and interests and ambitions become as
the merest dross in our eyes the moment that
we escape from the prison of this body ? "
Every one will understand the profound train of
thought into which such speculations as these
were likely to lead, and not a few will perceive
the probable result thereof, when supplemented
by warm weather and tobacco.

When I opened my eyes again the shadows
were long and black upon the grass, and Claud
Gervis, with his hands in his pockets, was standing
before me and laughing.

Dear me ! " said I, sitting up and rubbing
my eyes, " I believe I have been asleep."

I believe you have," answered my young
friend. " Do you know that it is getting on
for six o'clock ? "

You don't say so ! What have you done
with the ladies ? "

"You will be sorry to hear that they have
been obliged to go away without bidding you
good-bye. Croft drove them down the hill in
his mail-phaeton a quarter of an hour ago.
I was to apologize to you and to my father,

whom also we failed to discover. We looked
for him in every room, except the one where
I knew he was sure to be — which may account
for it. Are you inclined to walk down to the
town ? If you are, I will go with you ; only
I must just see the governor first, and tell him
he can come out without danger of encountering
any more strange ladies."

We found Mr. Gervis in the library, reading
a book, which he laid aside upon our entrance,
and which I afterwards had the curiosity to
glance at, and found to be a well-worn copy of
Montaigne.

The coast is clear, governor," said Claud.
Mrs. Lambert sends you all sorts of polite
messages, and is inconsolable at not having
shaken hands with you before she left."

I don't know," observed Mr. Gervis, addressing
me in his tired, deliberate voice,
whether the term ' governor ' is considered
quite the proper thing in this country. In my
time we used to say ' sir,' which is perhaps
slightly ridiculous. ' Papa ' is equally objectionable
in another way, and ' father ' has always
struck me as having a certain plebeian ring.
When one man is constantly speaking to
another, he has to call him something ; and
we hit upon ' governor ' as, upon the whole,

meeting the requirements of the case. The
French people thought it sounded very fitting
and respectful ; but I am not sure whether it
will quite do here. I have lived so long out
of England, that I am obliged to ask how
I ought to behave."

I said I thought that, in these days, parents
and children need not consult any one's convenience
but their own as regarded their mutual
relations ; and he assured me that I relieved
him exceedingly.

So they are gone — your friends ? " he
remarked to his son. " Is Mrs. Lambert a
native of Beachborough ? "

No ; only a visitor, I believe."

She is a most impossible person. Does
young Croft intend to marry the daughter ? "

I should hope not," answered Claud, laughing;
"but you had better ask Mr. Knowles.
He knows more about it than I do."

Mr. Gervis's interest in the matter was,
however, not very keen, it appeared ; for he
forbore to question me, and sat silent for a
time, absently drumming upon the table with
his little white fingers. At length he resumed :

I feel that I ought to beg everybody's
pardon for appearing on the scene in that
abrupt way, and spoiling the luncheon-party :

VOL. I. G

nothing is more inconsiderate than taking
people by surprise. But really the fault was
my valet's, not mine. I leave all details of that
kind to him, Mr. Knowles, just as I leave the
management of my household to Claud ; and
I assure you that, between them, they lead mea
deuce of a life. Apropos, Claud, have you
any news from Paris ? "

I had a letter this morning," answered the
young man, looking at his father a little apprehensively,
I thought. " Varna and Gen talk
of being here the day after tomorrow. You
won't go away, will you ? "

My dear fellow, what a question ! You
forget that we are in England, and that we
belong to the smaller class of landed gentry.
Having accepted the situation, we can but
endeavour to show ourselves equal to it ; and
so long as the Princess chooses to honour me
with her company, I shall remain at my post.
I imagine, however, that a fortnight of South-lands
will be the outside that she will be able
to accomplish."

That remains to be seen," answered Claud,
cheerfully. " At all events, we will hope for
the best."

Well — yes ; we will hope for that," said
Mr. Gervis. And I gathered from his tone

i

that his notion of what was best might perhaps
not be identical with his son's.

Soon afterwards Claud and I started for
Beachborough ; and, as we walked down
through the wood, my companion confided tome
that his father and step-mother were not
upon the best of terms, and that he was very
anxious to effect a reconciliation between them.
There is no actual quarrel," he explained ;
only a sort of misunderstanding. They are
both good people, but they are both peculiar \
and they do not understand one another — that
is all."

Oh, that is all, is it ? " said I, liking the lad
none the less for his innocent self-confidence.
Quarrels are made up every day ; but there
is only one cure that ever I heard of for a
chronic misunderstanding ; and that is death.
I did not, however, give utterance to this discouraging
sentiment ; and the would-be peacemaker
proceeded to treat of his designs in a
very sanguine strain until we reached the
harbour, where he went on board the Siren,,
and we parted.

CHAPTER IV.

Principalities.

Well, and if he has quarrelled with his wife —
what then ? " said my grandmother, peering at
me over her spectacles. " Many a wise man
has done that before now, and many a fool has
suffered for not doing it. Ahab, for instance.
If he had had the strength of mind to quarrel
with Jezebel, he might have ruled his people as
well as most kings, and died in his bed like a
decent man. Samson, again. A pretty pass
he brought himself to by making it up with
Delilah after she had betrayed him once ! "

Oh, certainly," I agreed, " and if you come
to that, we are all in our present lamentable
predicament by reason of the uxoriousness of
Adam. I am not for one moment standing up
for wives as a class — indeed, if I possessed one,
it is more than probable that I should quarrel
with her myself, — only I thought I had better

warn you that Mr. Gervis and his princess
don't exactly hit it off, because you are generally
so very severe upon unfortunates who fail in
their matrimonial duties."

In point of fact, Mrs. Knowles has made
herself somewhat notorious in her native county
by the sternness of her .demeanour towards
certain semi-estranged couples ; and although
I had riot thought fit to dispute her assertion
that our new neighbour was the most original
and amusing man she had met for years, it did
seem to me that, in view of future possible
contingencies, it might be well to remind her
that his domestic relations left something to be
desired.

There is no rule without an exception," she
answered calmly. " And I never listen to
gossip, as you know."

Gossip ! — why, I had it from the man's own
son. To think that a fine, clear sense of justice
should allow itself to be so obscured by the
mere empty compliment of a morning call ! "

Empty fiddlestick ! Surely there is nothing
very surprising in one of my oldest friends
coming to see me, and making himself agreeable.
From what you say, I imagine that he
didn't exert himself to talk to you the other
day, and therefore you don't like him. Don't

you be so fond of judging your neighbours,
Tom ; but turn your attention nearer home,
and it will be the better for you some day.
Now, as you have paid me the unusual ' empty
compliment ' of being in at this hour of the
evening, you may ring the bell for prayers."

And so, presently, the thirteenth chapter of
the first Epistle to the Corinthians is read out
in a clear, ringing voice, and somewhat pointed
emphasis gives me to understand that I am
no better than sounding brass and a tinkling
cymbal.

But although Mr. Gervis was thus early
taken into favour by one influential inhabitant
of Beachborough, the rest of his neighbours,
whether in the town or the surrounding country,
eyed him askance, and seemed in no great
hurry to cultivate his acquaintance. A vague
yet general impression that the man was under
a cloud caused these wary provincials to hold
aloof at the outset, no one choosing to be the
first to hold out the right hand of fellowship to
one of whose antecedents so little definite was
known. They encircled him, as it were, each
with a visiting-card in one hand and a brickbat
in the other, waiting for further information
before deciding which of these forms of welcome
should be launched at the intruder.

This truly British attitude exhibited itself
with amusing distinctness on the evening of
the much-talked-of yeomanry ball, at which,
to the great surprise of the assembled company,
Mr. Gervis saw fit to appear. When Claud
Gervis entered, followed by his father, I
happened to be standing beside the Admiral,
who must, I suppose, have received an invitation
at the last moment ; and as that gallant
officer has an inveterate habit of thinking aloud,
I was enabled to follow the course of his reflections,
which may be taken as fairly representing
those of his friends.

Cool, I must say — devilish cool ! Wonder
who asked him here ? Oh, young Croft, eh ?
there he is, shaking hands with him. Hah !
don't think much of that ; young Croft would
know anybody. Introducing him to his mother,
though, I see. Well, of course, if Lady Croft

takes him up Hullo ! that was rather a stiff

bow. Fellow's a regular adventurer, I suspect,
looks like it, anyhow. God bless my soul !
there's Lord Lynchester going up to speak to
him. Wonder what they're laughing at — daresay
he's an amusing sort of scoundrel, you know,

eh ? Upon my word, I've a great mind to

No, dash it all ! no ; it wouldn't do. All very
well for those grandees — it don't matter to

them ; but a family mart, living in the place,
eh ? No, no — wait a bit ; wait a bit."

While the Admiral took counsel with himself
in this strain, Mr. Gervis, whose interlocutor
had now left him, strolled slowly back towards
the door, and, espying there an unoccupied armchair,
dropped into it, and, crossing his legs
comfortably, gave himself up to a leisurely
study of the natives, most of whom, as he was
perhaps aware, were returning the compliment
with interest.

Sitting there, conspicuously apart, every inch
of his person, from his pale, changeless face to
his black silk stockings and his little shiny
shoes, could be seen from the farthest part of
the long room ; and if all eyes had not already
been turned in his direction, they would have
become so a few minutes later, when the
august forms of Lord and Lady Courtney were
seen looming in the doorway, close to his
elbow.

Lord Courtney, the lord-lieutenant of Lynn
is a nobleman in whom we all feel a
legitimate pride. He is not over and above
civil to us, it is true, and behind his back we
may sometimes affect to laugh at his high and
mighty ways, calling him Old Pomposity, and
other irreverent names ; but for all that,

and despite the fact that his features are of
the homeliest, and that (as my grandmother
often says) he has " about as much brains in
his head as would lie upon a shilling," we can't
but acknowledge the reflected lustre shed upon
us by his magnificent presence. I have stared
at most of the emperors and kings of the world ;
but never a one amongst them have I beheld
who could compare with our lord-lieutenant in
sublimity of carriage, or who appeared to have
a tithe of his conscious grandeur. When Lord
Courtney takes his walks abroad, he holds his
head so high that the brim of his hat almost
rests upon his nose, which indeed is slightly
upturned, as if to support it ; a smile, half
benign, half tolerant, usually plays about the
corners of his mouth ; he moves with a slow,
dignified step, which is almost, but not quite,
a strut. One has heard many people accused
of offering two fingers of their left hand to their
acquaintances ; but Lord Courtney is the only
man I know who habitually practises this form
of greeting. And as it is an established axiom
that we must set a high value upon ourselves
if we would be thought highly of by the world,
it is perhaps not surprising that his lordship
should occupy the exalted position that he does
in English society, and that a nod from him

should be more prized in Beachborough than
half an hour of Lord Lynchester's racy talk.

When, therefore, this majestic creature,
instead of advancing serenely into the ballroom,
looking straight before him, as is his
wont, halted before the little old man in the
arm-chair, and, holding out his entire right
hand, said, in a cordial voice, " How are you,
Gervis ? how are you ? Glad to see you.
Didn't know you were in these parts " — when,
I say, so unexpected a voucher of respectability
as this was conferred upon the mysterious
stranger, what could Beachborough do but
throw itself metaphorically at his feet ?

As weird, unreal shapes, born of darkness,
vanish at the rising of the sun, even so the
shades of suspicion and calumny which had hung
about our poor friend were dispersed by the
first beams of Lord Courtney's noble countenance
; and in less time than it has taken to
describe the entrance of that luminary, Mr.
Gervis s character had been established upon
a basis above the reach of vulgar detraction.
Drink ? — was ever so absurd a charge brought
against an obviously abstemious invalid ! Insanity
? — why, the man's wit and talents had
earned him a reputation in every European
capital ! Cruelty, indeed ! — what next ? But

there ! — everybody knows that there is no
scandal too foolish to obtain credence in this
ill-natured world ; and is it not morally certain
that if the angel Gabriel himself were to visit
us in disguise, such fellows as Blair and Pender
would immediately pretend to know of something
to his disadvantage ? The Admiral, for
his part, was glad to say that he had never
believed a single syllable of the rubbish that
had been whispered to him ; and he lost no
time in shaking hands with the new-comer in
his bluff, sailor-like way, and assuring him of
the pleasure with which he would put down his
name for the club. Kind-hearted, muddle-headed
Lady Croft, having a dim impression
that she had been rather rude to the man who
looked like a foreigner, came sailing across
the room towards him presently to make
amends.

Lord Courtney tells me he saw a great deal
of you in Paris. I did not know who you were
at first," she began, in the nervous, plaintive
accents which are habitual with her. " Freddy
introduces all sorts of people to me — one never
can tell — I beg your pardon, I'm sure. Is Mrs.
Gervis — I mean the Princess er — er — I am so
stupid about names — Ouranoff, thank you — is
she here to-night ? No ? Only arrived this

afternoon ? Oh, then of course she would be
much too tired ; and besides, I don't know why
anybody should come into such a rabble, unless
there were a necessity for it. I shall hope to
have the pleasure of calling upon her soon.
How hot it is here, is it not ? And how these
people push one about ? Would you mind
taking me into the next room to have a cup
of tea?"

Few persons, I should imagine, can ever
have been left ten minutes alone with Lady
Croft without having been put in possession
of full details with regard to that much-tried
lady's most recent family trouble. The troubles
of the Crofts, real or imaginary, have occupied
her whole mind for so many years that she is
now scarcely able to talk connectedly upon any
other subject ; and there is a naivete in her
innocent conviction that what interests her must
interest the rest of the world which goes far
towards securing for her the sympathy she
claims. Mr. Gervis was hardly the sort of
man whom an ordinary individual would have
felt drawn to make a confidant of; but long
before Lady Croft had finished her cup of tea,
he had heard all about her perplexities and
worries — of the escapades of her daughter, who
had taken up with a very fast and slangy set,

and was getting herself talked about from one
end of the county to the other, — of the importunities
of a certain ne'er-do-well brother-in-law,
who, it appeared, was perpetually clamouring
for money to pay his racing debts, — and last,
not least, of the alarming behaviour of Freddy
with reference to that terrible Miss Lambert.

"He will marry her, Mr. Gervis ; I feel
convinced that he will ; and I shall simply die
of vexation. It is curious that I should have
had a presentiment, the very first day we came
down here, when I saw Freddy walking on the
Esplanade with that odious girl, that some
horrible calamity would fall upon us through
her. And I am absolutely helpless ; that is
the worst of it. Freddy is, of course, his own
master, and he would no more think of consulting
me before taking a wife than he would
of asking my opinion about a horse or a gun.
And yet it stands to reason that I must be able
to judge of girls much better than he can do.
A mother devotes her whole life to her children,
and, as soon as ever the law sets them free,
they turn round and snap their fingers at her.
They may commit any fatal folly they please,
and she must not say a word. If she does,
they quarrel with her perhaps ; at the least,
they hint that she had better mind her own

business. As if their business was not hers !
It seems very hard."

I suppose it does seem hard," observed
Mr. Gervis placidly.

It is hard. Men don't in the least realize
what women — especially mothers — have to go
through."

I should think it must be horrid," said Mr.
Gervis. " It cant be helped, though. If I
might venture to offer a word of advice, I
should recommend you to make up your mind
not to care."

How is one to help caring ? "

You can educate yourself not to care about
anything ; and it becomes surprisingly easy as
one grows older. The truth is, that very few
things are really of the slightest consequence.
I dare say your son won't marry that young
person with the high colour, after all ; but if he
does, the chances are that you will like her as
much as you would anybody else after the first
year."

Mr. Gervis, would you allow your son to
marry Miss Lambert ?"

Oh dear, no ; but then, you see, he has no
money, except what I give him ; so that he is
in my power. If it were not for that, I should
not attempt to prevent his marrying Miss Lambert,

or Mrs. Lambert either, if he chose. It
would be useless exertion. As it is, he will
very likely have to remain a bachelor until I
die ; for it would be excessively inconvenient
to me to do without him. Here he comes,
making himself very agreeable to a particularly
pretty young lady. Doubtless another siren of
the Lambert tribe."

Oh no," sighed Lady Croft ; " she is a Miss
Flemyng — a very nice girl, as girls go. Once
I thought that Freddy was rather smitten with
her ; and I should have been only too thankful
if he had been, though she has no money and
is nobody in particular. But that is just an
instance of the crooked way in which things go.
Your son, as you say, might flirt as much as he
liked with Miss Lambert, and no harm would
come of it ; so of course he never looks at her ;
whereas mine, who has nobody to protect him
from himself, falls into the trap at once."

The world is out of joint," answered Mr.
Gervis, sententiously. " But it matters very
little in the long run, I assure you."

"It matters a great deal to me," returned
poor Lady Croft.

I need hardly say that I do not report the
above dialogue as having actually reached my
ears. In point of fact, at the time of its occurrence,

I must have been well on my way
towards home and bed. This history is less
the result of personal observation than of information
received at various times and from
divers trustworthy sources ; and if, in writing it,
I had to confine myself to the relation of such
incidents as I could swear to in a court of
justice I should not only be obliged to cut out
many scenes of a most interesting and pathetic
nature, but some of the characters who will
make their appearance in due course would
have to be omitted altogether. As for this
yeomanry ball, i saw little more of it than did
Lord Courtney, whose august countenance was
withdrawn from the assembly after a short
quarter of an hour. The truth is, that my
dancing days are over ; and I . was able to
retire early, with the happy conviction that
nobody would notice my absence.

Before midnight the greater part of the
ladies and gentlemen present had done likewise
; for it is not, or rather used not to be,
considered the thing to linger over long at
these entertainments, which are intended rather
for the amusement of the men than of their
superiors. Lady Lynchester, a thin, washed-out
looking person, who had never been heard
to laugh in her life, rose from her seat at the

end of the room as soon as her lord signalled
to her that she was free to go ; and the Beach-borough
contingent, ever scrupulous in the
strict observance of etiquette, hastened to follow
her ladyship's lead. Then landowners from
distant parts of the country, who had a long
drive between themselves and home, collected
their respective wives and daughters, and
trooped off in a body, the departure of some
stragglers, loitering near the doorway in hopes
of seeing a little of the fun, being hastened by
Lord Lynchester, who began to stalk about,
with his hands behind his back, wondering
audibly what the deuce those people were sticking
there for.

But when the last of these had disappeared,
there still remained a few of what the noble
and gallant Colonel called " the right sort " —
privileged persons, who were known to entertain
no objection to a romp and could be relied
upon to tell no tales next day. Conspicuous
among the latter was Miss Croft, " a downright
jolly girl, with no stuck-up nonsense about her"
to use Lord Lynchester's words, — "just like
her brother, only more so, you know," — a
description so terse and accurate that no
further space need be taken up in introducing

her to the reader. Miss Lambert, although an
vol. 1. H

outsider, was included in the circle of choice
spirits; probably because she carried her credentials
in her face ; and there were three or
four young ladies besides, whose names it is
unnecessary to record.

During the early part of the evening, an
unspoken convention had divided the ball-room
into two halves, the officers and their friends
sitting and dancing at the upper end of it, while
the larger and humbler portion of the assemblage
disported itself at the lower ; but now
this imaginary barrier was swept away, together
with all irksome class distinctions, and the
whole floor was at the disposition of the dancers.
Now, when we dance in Lynshire, we do it
with a will, not skimming languidly and dreamily
over the polished surface, nor lurching heavily
round and round on the same spot, like 
tottering to their fall, as the fashion
of some effeminate citizens is ; but taking a
firm grip of our partner's waist and hand,
putting down our heads, and starting off at a
pace as good as we can make it, helter-skelter,
every man for himself, and devil take the
hindmost. The consequences of this energetic
method, when adopted by some seventy couples
in a long and narrow room, may be easily
imagined. Before the first waltz was at an

end, many a stalwart yeoman had measured
his length upon the well-waxed floor, and the
elbows of more than one fair maiden were
scratched and bruised. Every now and then
a faint shriek rose from the midst of the made,
or a manly voice was heard to expostulate fora
moment; but the predominant sound was
that of laughter, and hard knocks seemed to
be distributed pretty evenly all round, upon
an amicable give-and-take principle. Fat little
Wilkins, the butcher, pounding blindly ahead,
and sawing the air with outstretched arm,
brought his fist down with a thump on the
middle of Lord Lynchester's back, and, instead
of turning pale and trembling, as he would
have done at any other time after such a mishap,
bobbed off again as merrily as ever, with
a " Beg pardon, m' lord. Didn't see yer —
haw, haw, haw ! " For indeed the supper-room
had been open for half an hour, and it is not
on every day of the year that a man can drink
the best of champagne and pay nothing for it.

All right, Wilkins ! " shouted Lord Winchester
after him ; " I'll make it hot for you ina
minute."

And presently, sure enough, his lordship,
having secured an efficient partner in Miss
Croft, darted off in pursuit of the delinquent,

and proceeded to waltz round and round him
in an ever-contracting circle till he reduced him
to such a state of giddiness that he was fain to
lean against the wall and gasp. Then, with
a deft and rapid thrust in the ribs, which caused
the luckless butcher to exclaim aloud, " Oh
Lord!" he returned to his starting-point, and,
throwing himself down upon a bench, gave way
to a peal of merriment in which Miss Croft
joined heartily.

Claud Gervis looked on at all this horse-play
with rather wide-opened eyes. Was it in this
manner that the aristocracy of Great Britain
was accustomed to take its relaxation? he
wondered. Of the manners and habits of his
native land he was almost entirely ignorant.
At Eton he had, of course, associated with
many young sprigs of nobility ; but rank is not
recognized among boys, and Claud's impression
of an English lord, which was that commonly
current in foreign countries, had received confirmation
from such specimens of the race as
Lord Courtney and an occasional ambassador
or minister plenipotentiary who had come in
his way.

"What are you thinking of?" inquired his
partner, that pretty Miss Flemyng of whom
mention has already been made. " You look
quite horrified."

No ; I am not horrified," the young man
said ; " but I am rather surprised, I admit. It
is all so very different from what I expected.
I did not think we English were ever so — so
uproarious. Surely it is not usual at a ball to
try and knock down as many people as one
can."

"Well, hardly," answered Miss Flemyng,
laughing. " But this is a yeomanry ball, you
must remember ; and besides, all the quiet,
respectable people are supposed to be gone
away."

But Lady Croft is still here, and Miss
Lambert — not to mention present company."

Lady Croft is here because Florry won't
go away ; and Miss Lambert is here because
she is Miss Lambert, I suppose ; and I am
here because I came with the Crofts. You
need not say anything about it when papa
comes to call upon you, by the way. He is
like you — rather easily shocked."

I am not easily shocked," returned Claud,
resenting such an imputation with the natural
fervour of a very young man.

No ? I thought you looked so. I am sure
I should be shocked myself, if I had lived
abroad all my life, and had made my first
acquaintance with English society to-night.

But you mustn't suppose that Lynshire always
conducts itself like this. We can behave as
nicely as any one else in London ; only when
we find ourselves all together in our own part of
the world, we think we may put on our country
manners. And we are all rather savages, as
you see."

Miss Flemyng did not look at all like a
savage. Claud, who was rather more observant
of trifles than most men, had noticed that
the dress she wore was assuredly not the handiwork
of a provincial artist, and that her abundant
brown locks were arranged in accordance with
the latest mode. She moved and held herself in
the indescribable style which only a woman of
the world can acquire ; her manner was perfectly
easy and natural, and she seemed to be upon
terms of the friendliest familiarity with the
young men who spoke to her, from time to
time, as she stood watching the dance ; but she
was not loud, like her friend Miss Croft, nor
did she make use of the school-boy's slang
which formed so large a portion of that young
lady's conversation. Her chief claim to beauty,
setting aside those of a neat, well-proportioned
little figure and a general air of finish, consisted
in a pair of dark grey eyes, which had been
turned innocently upon Claud's more than once

in the course of the evening, and had not failed
to produce a certain impression upon him. He
was glad to hear that Miss Flemyng lived within
a few miles of Beachborough, for he thought
he would decidedly like to see more of her.

I am not going to dance any more," she
said, after she and her partner had completed
one perilous circuit of the room ; " it's too hot
and dusty and disagreeable. Do you think
there is a balcony beyond that window, where
the ferns are ? If there is, we might go and sit
there."

I know there is," answered Claud, " because
I was there earlier in the evening. And there
is a particularly comfortable sofa there, too,
where we can sit and watch the sea, which, after
all, is a much pleasant thing to look at on a
hot night than those fat yeomen."

And now an awkward incident took place,
which shows how thoughtless it is of people to
bounce unexpectedly into dark corners. Claud
pushed open the half-closed French window tolet
Miss Flemyng pass, and, following closely
upon her heels — " Here is the sofa," said he.

There it was, sure enough ; and there, also,
were two persons, seated upon it. Moreover,
one of these persons happened to be in the very
act of kissing the other. And then, as fate

would have it, at that precise moment the moon
emerged from behind a cloud, and threw a fine
flood of silvery light upon the figures of Freddy
Croft and Miss Lambert. The situation was a
somewhat embarrassing one, and Claud did not
mend matters by hastily whisking round and
gazing out to sea, with an utterly unsuccessful
pretence of having seen nothing.

Miss Flemyng was less taken aback. She
calmly surveyed the luckless couple for a second,
which must have seemed to them an age ; and
then, stooping to pick up the train of her long-dress,
stepped quietly back into the ball-room.

She was laughing a little when her partner
rejoined her. " How too ridiculous ! " she
exclaimed. "I shall never forget poor Freddy's
face. I hope you are discreet, and can keep a
secret, Mr. Gervis."

Of course I can," answered Claud. " I
wish it had not happened, though. Croft will
think it so stupid of me ; and really it almost
looked as if we had done it on purpose."

Oh, he won't mind," said Miss Flemyng,
placidly. " Freddy is always kissing people,
and always getting caught. I dare say Miss
What's-her-name won't mind much either ; she
looks as if she was quite accustomed to that
kind of thing."

She may be engaged to be married to him,
you know," remarked Claud, feeling bound to
say a word for the unfortunate lady whom his
awkwardness had compromised.

Oh, I do hope not. Poor, dear little fellow !
I should be so very sorry if he were to fall into
such a trap as that. He and I have known
one another since we were children, and he
generally tells me about all his love affairs ; but
I have been away, and have never seen that
monstrosity of a girl till this evening. You
don't think there is really any danger, do you ? "

Without knowing why, Claud felt vaguely
annoyed by the anxious ring of Miss Flemings
voice. " I can't tell anything about it," he
answered, rather shortly. "He seems to admire
her very much, and they are always together."

Well, I wish they were not together now ;
or at least that they were together anywhere
except in the one cool place in the building,"
remarked Miss Flemyng, with a laugh. "We
shall have to take refuge on the staircase, I
suppose."

To the staircase they accordingly betook
themselves ; and in that pleasant, untrammelled
intercourse which is apt to arise between young
men and women under such circumstances, and
which, remote though it may be from serious

love-making, is generally sweetened by some of
the charms which attach to the unknown and
the possible, Claud soon forgot all about
Freddy Croft and his destinies. But when the
last dance was over, and Claud was putting on
his coat in the hall, his friend joined him, with
a face preternaturally long, and said, in a solemn
voice —

I say, Gervis, let me walk a bit of the way
with you, will you ? I want to speak to you."

Come along," said Claud. " Will you have
a cigar ? "

Oh no," Freddy answered, shaking his
head lugubriously ; " I don't want to smoke."

He kept silence until he and his companion
had reached the outskirts of the town, and then
began —

Do you know, Gervis, I have made an everlasting
fool of myself."

Ah ! I can guess what you mean. I saw
you doing it, didn't I ?"

I suppose you did. At least you saw me
kissing the girl. But, dear me, that was nothing,
you know."

'wasn't it?"

I mean, of course it was all right. I knew
you and Nina Flemyng were safe enough ; and
really it was the sort of thing that might have

happened to anybody. But, by George, sir ! "
continued Freddy, impressively, " do you know
what that girl did as soon as you were gone ? "

Burst into tears ? " suggested Claud.

Not she ! Began to laugh, and said that,
now we had been so neatly caught, the best
thing we could do was ' to give out our engagement
at once.' I thought she was chaffing at
first ; but she wasn't — deuce a bit ! She was as
serious as I am now."

I can quite believe it."

Well, but, my dear fellow," resumed Freddy
impatiently, " don't you see what a horrid mess
I am in ? I never meant anything of that kind
at all ; and how was I to suppose that she did ?
I don't want to marry anybody ; and Miss
Lambert of all people ! She's a very jolly
girl, and a first-rate dancer, and all that ; but
as suspending the rest of one's life with her ! —
Oh, I'm simply done for, and I shall go and
drown myself in the harbour."

I don't think I would decide upon doing
that quite yet," remarked the other young man
pensively.

What would you do, if you were in my
place ? "

I should run away, I think. Have you
committed yourself to anything definite ? "

Oh no. In point of fact, I rather tried to
laugh the whole thing off; but she wouldn't
have that at any price. And the worst of it is,
I'm afraid she has told her mother. The old
girl gave me a very queer sort of look when I
put her into her carriage, and said she would
expect to see me tomorrow afternoon."

And what did you say to that ? "

I ? Oh, I said < Good-night.' "

That was vague enough, certainly," observed
Claud, laughing. " Well, I have an
idea. I think I can get you out of this. Only
you must promise me not to see Mrs. or Miss
Lambert till you hear from me again. Most
likely I shall be with you before the afternoon."

My dear fellow, I won't stir out of my
bedroom," answered the affrighted baronet,
earnestly. " I'll stay in bed, if you like. Oh,
if only I escape this time, not another woman
under sixty years of age do I speak to ! "

It is possible to speak to young women
without kissing them," Claud remarked sagely.

"It isn't easy, though," returned the other,
sighing. " The safest plan is to let 'em alone."

Ah, you are of Villon's opinion."

Who was he?" inquired Sir Frederick.
And Claud, laughing, quoted a recent translation
of that mediaeval miscreant —

". . . . Trust them, and you're fooled anon j
For white or brown, and low or high,
Good luck has he that deals with none ! "

With which sweeping judgment upon the sex
the friends parted.

CHAPTER V.

THE CRUISE OF THE " SIREN."

Upon my word, Gervis, it's awfully kind of
you, and I should enjoy the cruise above
everything," said Freddy Croft ; " but, look
here — is it absolutely necessary for me to write
to the old woman ? "

I think it would look better if you did."

But lawyers and fellows always say it is the
greatest mistake in the world to commit yourself
to writing," objected Freddy, biting the top
of his pen. " And I'm such a duffer at explaining
things ; I shall be sure to make a mess of
it. What sort of thing ought one to say ? I
wish you'd dictate it to me."

Very well ; I will, if you like. I should
make it something like this : ' My dear Mrs.
Lambert.' Have you got that ? "

All right. Drive on."

'"My dear Mrs. Lambert,

' Gervis has just come in to tell me
that he has made up a party for a rather long
cruise in his father's yacht, and he insists upon
my joining it. We must get out of harbour with
the next tide, he says ; so I shall barely have
time to pack up my things, and I am afraid I
cannot possibly run round to bid you and Miss
Lambert good-bye. My plans are always very
uncertain, and you will, of course, have left
Beachborough long before I return home ; but
the world is so small, that we are sure to meet
again some time or other ; and I need not say
that I look forward to a renewal of our acquaintance
with the greatest pleasure." 1

That is a buster ! " remarked the docile
scribe parenthetically.

Scratch it out, if you choose ; but it means
nothing, and it sounds polite. I don't think
you need say any more, except that you are
writing in great haste, and that, with kind
remembrances to Miss Lambert, you are hers
sincerely."

' Yours sincerely, F. Croft,' " muttered the
other, signing his name, and folding up the
short note. " Yes, I think that will about do.
I feel rather like a brute, though."

You don't enjoy the sensation of running

away : nobody does," remarked Claud. " But
one has to choose between doing that and
being eaten up, sometimes."

What a hard-hearted beggar you are ! Ah,
it's all very well to laugh ; but Miss Lambert
isn't half such a bad girl as you think. I wish
to goodness there was no such thing as marriage
! Shall I send my fellow round with this
now ? "

Not unless you want to have Mrs. Lambert
here in a quarter of an hour. I think it had
better not be put into her hands before we are
well under way. She can hardly give chase,
unless she charters a steam-tug."

The two young men were sitting in the
deserted upper chamber of the Courtney Arms,
which, for the previous ten days, had served as
the officers' mess-room of the Royal Lynshire
Yeomanry Cavalry. Reminiscences of the last
breakfast partaken of together by those brave
defenders of their county and country still
covered the long table, in the shape of empty
dishes and cups, fragments of rolls and dirty
plates. Freddy had pushed his on one side to
make room for the blotting-book and inkstand
by the help of which he had shaken himself
free from Miss Lambert's toils.

Ghastly-looking scene, ain't it ? " he remarked.

" That's the worst of this Yeomanry
business. Just when fellows have got to be
comfortable together, and to understand one
another's ways, the whole thing comes to an
end. What a blessing that one hasn't got to
stay on in this place, now that they are all
gone ! By-the-by, Gervis, you haven't told me
yet what our party is to be."

There is no party," answered the other
young man, who had seated himself upon the
window-sill, and was swinging his long legs and
gazing down at the sunny street beneath him ;
that was only a figure of speech. The fact is,
that it was not until I was walking up the hill
last night that I decided to ask the governor
for the use of the yacht at all. I wanted to
take my sister away somewhere for a time,
because I — because of some family reasons - ;
and of course there was not time to invite anyone
else. Oh, you need not look alarmed ; I
am not going to lead you into any fresh troubles.
You are very unlikely indeed to fall in love
with Gen, and I think I can promise that she
will not become enamoured of you, saving your
presence. And Miss Potts will be there to
play dragon."

My dear fellow, I didn't look alarmed ; and
I'm sure I don't want any dragon. Who is she?"

vol. 1. 1

Miss Potts ? Well, she is Miss Potts— a
nonentity, a lay figure — at all events, so far as
you, or any other strangers, are concerned.
She was my sister's governess once upon a
time. Now I don't exactly know what she is
a sort of companion, I suppose you would
call her. I am afraid you will find it all rather
dull work, Croft ; but there's no help for it. I
have sent a note to old Knowles to ask whether
he would care to come with us."

And I am credibly informed that the young
baronet's rejoinder to this announcement was,
Oh, hang old Knowles ! "

Pressed to explain this most unseemly and
uncivil ejaculation, he proceeded, with his usual
engaging candour : " Old Knowles isn't a bad
old chap ; only he will insist upon knowing all
about his neighbour's business. Always asking
questions and wanting to know all about everything.
I've known him all my life, and I like
him very well in his way ; but he's a regular
old Paul Pry, and that's the truth. I'd bet any
money he hears the whole of this confounded
affair of mine before we have been an hour onboard."


I suppose that no more unfounded charge
has ever been made since the day when the
two men of Belial swore away the life of

Naboth the Jezreelite. My failings and shortcomings
are doubtless many, and I hope that
I am not unconscious of the greater part of
them ; but that L, of all people in the world,
should be accused of being a Paul Pry is really
just a little too absurd. I protest that I have
never sought any man's confidence ; but surely
it is no crime to take an interest in one's fellow-mortals
; and why is it that so many people
have chosen to make me the depository of
their secrets, unless because I am generally
held to be a pre-eminently safe man ? And
if, as a matter of fact, I did hear the whole
of Freddy's " confounded affair " before I had
been an hour on board the Siren, who was
it, pray, who related it to me in fullest detail
from beginning to end ? Who asked my
opinion upon his past behaviour, and begged
for my advice as to his future line of conduct ?
Each, mein liber Sulzer," said Frederick the
Great, " er kent night dies verdant
Race ! " — and I declare that, when that ungrateful
speech of Frederick the little's was
reported to me, I felt, as I often do, very much
inclined to compare myself to the worthy
Berlin school-inspector, and to wonder whether
a good thick coat of selfishness and indifference
is not, after all, a sensible man's best wear.

But these are personal matters, and have no
direct bearing, I admit, upon the narrative in
hand. What is certain is that, when the Siren
cleared out of Beachborough harbour that
afternoon, there might have been seen, reclining
on a low wicker chair on her deck, a
middle-aged gentleman of prepossessing exterior,
the expression of whose countenance
appeared to indicate — what in truth was the
case — that he was contented with his company
and was fully persuaded that his company was
equally contented with him.

The situation, indeed, was one conducive to
quiet satisfaction and oblivion of all petty
worries. Ahead lay the broad blue sea,
flooded with sunshine and swept by flying
shadows from the summer clouds ; astern was
Beachborough, where people were just beginning
to emerge from the houses for their afternoon
stroll ; and behind Beachborough were
the woods of Southlands ; and behind the
woods, the hills, and behind the hills, the
world. It was at. least our world that we
were parting from ; and if there be a sensation
calculated to fill a man's mind with peace,
surely it is that of sailing away from all ties,
duties and associations, and leaving no address
behind him. The first strains of the band

were wafted to us, mellowed by distance, as
we glided past the pier-heads ; the men, in
their blue jerseys and red caps, were hauling
up the mainsail, Claud and Freddy lending
superfluous aid, and making themselves very
hot over it, as the manner of yachtsmen is ;
three idle persons, seated near the top of the
companion, were watching the proceedings in
silence, ducking their heads, every now and
then, as the heavy boom swung over. The
reader having already made acquaintance with
the first and humblest of this trio, it only
remains to introduce to him its two other
members.

Any one who has seen the conventional
French caricature of the vieille miss anglaise
has seen Miss Potts; any one who has read
an incidental sketch of an English lady-companion
in a French novel is familiar with her
peculiarities. She had the projecting teeth,
the flaxen curls, the rigid backbone and the
angular outline so dear to " Cham " and a host
of others ; and the moment I looked at her,
I felt sure that she professed an extravagant
prudishness, frequently made use of the word
shocking' ate much, spoke little, and employed
her spare time in the production of
washy water-colour sketches. I don't pretend

to say why this gross libel upon our national
type should be so commonly met with in the
flesh on the other side of the channel, and
yet be extinct, or nearly so, on this ; but the
fact is undeniable ; and Miss Potts's counterparts
are to be seen following in the wake of
most of the well-born young ladies of continental
Europe. Increased intimacy with that
very estimable person confirmed my intuition
with regard to her in every particular, and
further revealed that her life was influenced
by two ruling passions — adoration of her charge,
and abhorrence of her charge's father.

Miss Gervis is less easy to describe. In
the course of the six months that followed
her entrance into Lynshire society I had
various opportunities of hearing her discussed,
and I am bound to say that the usual verdict
upon her personal appearance was by no means
what my own opinion of it would have led me
to expect. Everybody admitted that she had
fine eyes, and most people had also remarked
her eyelashes, which were exceptionally long ;
but the fact of her having a brother whom
she closely resembled, yet whose features were
decidedly more regular than her own, was so
patent that her critics seemed unable to get
over it, and invariably ended by remarking

what a pity it was that he should be so much
the better-looking of the two. It is the old
story : the many hate the risk and trouble of
forming and declaring their own tastes, and
prefer to accept their standard of the beautiful,
as they do their religion and the cut of their
clothes, from experts. We are somewhat
behind the age down in Lynshire, and have
hardly realized as yet that regularity of outline
has fallen a little out of fashion.

I am afraid that my poor powers are quite
unequal to defining the charm that Genevieve
Gervis had for me from the first. A vague
something, describable only in vague language
which I, as a plain man and no poet am
averse to — a pathetic, far-away look in the
large dark eyes, a certain wistfulness about
the slow, unfrequent smile, a grace and languor
of movement, betraying southern blood, a
general air of quiet suppression rather painful
to witness in a girl just entering on life — all
these, combined with something, which, for
lack of a better word, I suppose I must call
her individuality, made up a whole entirely
above the cut-and-dried canons by which it
is commonly sought to measure and judge
beauty. As she sat on the deck of the yacht
there, gazing out at the far horizon, she roused

my interest as well as my admiration ; for I
felt convinced that she had a " history." But
there I was mistaken. History, in that acceptation
of the term, she had none; nor was
there anything in the records of her girlhood
to justify a special air of melancholy. Who
had ever ill-used her ? Certainly not that
urbane, cynical father of hers, who spent so
little of his time beneath his own roof; not
flighty, foolish Varna, who would not have,
harmed a fly ; nor Claud, the best of brothers,
as he was the best of sons ; nor the faithful
and devoted Potts. When a girl who has
liberty and amusing society and plenty of
pocket-money persists in looking unhappy, may
she not fairly be set down as silly and fanciful,
and in need of what old maids call " a good
shaking," to bring her to her senses ? I don't
know that anybody had ever said this to
Genevieve ; but I suspect that more than one
person had said it of her — whether justly or
unjustly the reader may decide when he shall
know her better.

But now mainsail, foresail, jib and topsails
are set ; the Siren, heeling over under a steady
breeze from the land, is rushing through the
water at a good ten knots an hour speed ; the
two young men come aft, Freddy Croft to pour

the tale of his misadventures into my sympathetic
ear, and Claud to reassure Miss Potts,
who is nervous at sea ; we are fairly off on our
voyage, and the odd thing is that not one of
us has as yet thought of inquiring whither weare
bound. I suppose we all felt that the
question of our destination was one of secondary
importance. Claud, no doubt, had plans ; but
it was just as well that he should keep them
to himself. So long as we were free, and had
a good ship under us, a clear sky over us, and
a fair wind to send us on our way, what signified
petty details ?

We knew the merry world was round,
And we might sail for evermore."

As a matter of fact, however, we did not get
further than Portsmouth harbour that night.
We went below to dinner with the coast of
Sussex showing like a mere cloud-bank where
the sea met the sky ; but when we came up
again the Isle of Wight was close upon our
lee-bow ; ahead of us, between it and the mainland,
two strange-looking circular forts rose
abruptly out of the deep ; and it was evident
that we were to pass the night in smooth water.

Miss Potts heaved a sigh of gentle satisfaction
as she perceived our position. " It is so

very dangerous to sail during the darkness," she
murmured. " I never venture to undress until
I know that the anchor is down. This seems to
be a nice sheltered spot. I trust that we shall
make it our head-quarters, and return here
every evening."

Well, I don't know for certain," said
Freddy, in a confidential tone ; " but I did hear
a rumour that we were to get under way for
America before daybreak."

"For America!" cried poor Miss Potts,
aghast. " Impossible ! You cannot be serious,
Sir Frederick."

Oh, yes. It is quite a common thing for
yachts to cross the Atlantic nowadays, you
know ; and, after all, one doesn't often hear of
their being lost — not very often, at least. The
great danger is being driven out of ones course,
or having a long spell of contrary winds.
Then, of course, one may run short of provisions,
and have to live upon odds and ends
of things for a time ; but that would be rather
fun, don't you think so ? I recollect hearing of
one party who supported life for a week upon
candles, after the biscuits gave out, and then
they ate their boots, and then they fell to gnawing
the rigging, and then "

11 Genevieve, my dear child," interrupted Miss

Potts, " let us go on shore at once. Your
brother may do as he likes ; but I am responsible
for you, I believe ; and such an escapade
as Sir Frederick describes would be not only
dangerous, but in the highest degree improper.
Mr. Claud, I am very sorry to be troublesome,
but I must ask you to order the gig to be ready
in half an hour."

Quite out of the question, Miss Potts," answered
Claud seriously. " I regret to have
to inform you that the gig has sprung a leak,
and that some one has taken the plug out of
the cutter, and lost it. So you see, neither of
them will be available to-night."

Miss Potts sighed, but did not allow her
resolution to be shaken. " I have a duty to
perform," said she. " Sooner than risk finding
myself out in the Atlantic tomorrow morning,
I will go on shore in the dingy."

Then," remarked Freddy, " it's all up.
You will be swamped to a moral, and both of
you will be drowned ; because I happen to
know that not a man of the crew can swim
two yards."

Don't answer him, Miss Potts," said Genevieve.
" He is only talking nonsense, and he
would be as frightened as you are if he thought
we were really going to cross the ocean."

From all of which it will be perceived that
a pleasing familiarity had already established
itself among us. Possibly the fact that certain
members of our small party were of an exceptionally
genial temperament may have had
something to do with this ; but no five people
cooped up on board a yacht together can remain
long upon distantly polite terms. They
may become friends, or they may quarrel :
mere acquaintances they can hardly continue
to be. Life, indeed, in its social aspect, withall
its complications and their causes and effects,
resolves itself pretty much into a question of
propinquity ; and those who, carelessly or deliberately,
throw their fellow-mortals together
take a vast responsibility upon themselves.

The credit of the above sage reflection
belongs not to me, but to Claud Gervis, who
gave utterance to it in my presence on the
second morning of our cruise, and who meant
his words to apply to those whom we had left
behind us rather than to the company assembled
on board the Siren, which at that moment was
plunging through a fine rolling sea off the
Needles. Genevieve, by means of a judicious
arrangement of hassocks and rugs, had jammed
herself firmly between the cabin skylight and
the lee-bulwarks ; Freddy was sprawling on the

deck beside her; Miss Potts was below, with
a prayer-book and a smelling-bottle ; and my
young friend and I, standing somewhat uncomfortably
on the weather side, were steadying
ourselves by holding on to the rigging.

I was determined," says this astute schemer,
"to give them a chance. I may have been
utterly wrong ; but I thought it was at least
worth trying. They have never, in my recollection,
been alone together for a day ; and
now they will have a fortnight, or perhaps
more. If they disagree — well, we are no worse
off than we were before. But don't you think
it is a great deal more likely that they will find
out that they have misunderstood one another,
and that they will shake hands ? "

I replied by some of the usual commonplaces
referring to differences between husband and
wife, and the proverbial fate of those who
attempt to adjust them.

"Ah, but you do not understand," rejoined
Claud. " How should you, when I do not
understand myself? nor any one else either, I
sometimes think. It is all a misunderstanding.
Varna says she is misunderstood. The
governor says nothing ; but he is not a happy
man, as you must have observed ; and he hasa
softer heart than people give him credit for.

Also he has too keen a sense of the ridiculous
not to see the absurdity of two persons being
shut up together in a country house, meeting
a dozen times a day, and passing on with a
bow. I think Varna will make the first
advance — she will be so horribly bored that
she will not be able to help it — and if he does
not meet her half-way, he will at least listen
to her, and so they will get into conversation,
and he will end by finding her as charming as
every one else does."

And will she find him equally charming ? "

She will, if he chooses that she should, you
may be sure. No one can be more agreeable
than the governor, when he likes. Certainly
he does not often like ; but that is because
he so seldom thinks it worth while to exert
himself for the benefit of strangers. And I
suppose no one can expect to get on with a
total stranger without some exertion."

It is a question of temperament," says
Claud's observant hearer, with a glance at
the other side of the deck.

Indeed, I do not imagine that the favourable
impression which Freddy Croft produced upon
all sorts and conditions of men and women was
due to any conscious effort on his part, or that,
in prostrating himself at Miss Gervis's feet, he

was doing otherwise than obeying the instinct
which invariably led him to the neighbourhood
of the youngest and prettiest lady within reach.
I did not overhear what he and Genevieve
were talking about, being, as I have said, to
the windward of them ; but, judging by the
peals of laughter which rose, from time to time,
on the wind, they must have found one another
highly entertaining ; and when I saw Freddy
carefully wrapping his mackintosh about his
neighbour's shoulders to protect her from the
spray, I perceived that the reign of Miss
Lambert was already a thing of the remote
past.

"Un clou chasse l'autre," muttered I to myself
; but I did not repeat the observation when
Claud asked me what I had said, for I thought
we had had enough of personal topics for that
morning, and besides, one never knows how
young men will take speeches of that kind
where their sisters are concerned.

When we had sighted Vintner, and were in
smoother water, Miss Potts appeared, looking
a trifle pale and dazed, and was much relieved
to hear that our programme for the day comprised
nothing more ambitious than a sail round
the island, and that we should probably reach
our safe moorings again before dinner time.

That is by far the better and wiser plan,"
said she. " I do not know whether your
experience coincides with mine, Mr. Knowles ;
but, although I am not unaccustomed to yachting,
I have never yet succeeded in reconciling
myself to swinging tables. The illusion of
stability which they convey to one of the
senses, while the others are conscious of incessant
and distressing motion, always seems
to me to make the maintenance of personal
equilibrium a doubly difficult task."

It was in this ponderous style that Miss
Potts was in the habit of expressing herself
when time was given her to choose her words
carefully. She prided herself, I believe, upon
the purity of her English, and would sometimes
boast that not one of the foreign young-ladies
who had acquired our language under
her tuition had ever been heard to make use
of any of those vulgar idioms now too common
in polite society.

Of course, if you will persist in grasping the
edge of the table for support whenever the
vessel gives a lurch, you will find its stability
an illusion and your personal equilibrium nowhere,"
remarked Claud. And after this, it
became a standing joke with us to inquire after
Miss Potts's personal equilibrium every morning.

We had many a joke together during that
ten days' cruise ; but I refrain from reporting
them, for the above, which may be taken asa
fair sample of their quality, will sufficiently
show that they were not remarkable for any
great brilliancy of wit. We laughed a great
deal ; and the truth is that it did not take very
much to make us laugh. When I think of the
voyage of the Siren from Beachborough to
Portsmouth, and from Portsmouth to Swanage
and Weymouth, and so along the Devonshire
coast to Torquay, and the long, lazy days at
sea, and the rambles on shore, and the swim
in the early morning, and the last cigar on deck
at night, and Evans the skipper's yarns, and
Freddy Croft's novel practical jokes — when, I
say, I recall these things, I can't, for the life
of me, tell why I, a mere outsider and spectator,
should have enjoyed it all so much. It was
a great success, that yachting trip ; but it was
a wholly uneventful one ; and of its various
episodes two only stand out clearly from the
rest in my memory — a discovery which we
made the night when we lay for the second
time in Portsmouth harbour, and the squall
which caught us in Torbay, and carried away
our main-topmast.

There was a piano in the main-cabin — a

VOL. I. K

jingling old instrument of the kind which one
expects to meet with on board ship — its upper
notes hopelessly flat, and its whole internal
economy impaired by moisture and rough
usage. Once or twice Claud had sat down
before it, and picked out a few bars of a waltz ;
and sometimes Freddy, who, when he was not
talking, was always whistling or singing, would
favour us with a stirring accompaniment to one
of his music-hall ditties ; but it was such a vile
old thine, that it never occurred to either of us
strangers to ask Miss Gervis to perform upon
it. One evening, however, she chose to do so
uninvited ; and the moment her fingers touched
the yellow keys I, for one, knew that we had
an artist among us.

I said as much to Miss Potts, who seemed
pleased, and nodded her head emphatically in
reply. "We have lived a good deal in the
musical world in Paris," she whispered, "and
Genevieve's playing was thought very highly
of by the best judges ; but if you are fond of
music, it is her violin that you ought to hear.
My dear," she added aloud, " will you bring
your violin out ? Mr. Knowles expresses a
desire "

I think, if I did, Mr. Knowles would soon
express a desire for me to put it back again,"

answered the girl, glancing over her shoulder,
while she continued to play softly. " I should
make a great deal too much noise for this tiny
cabin."

11 She wants to be pressed," said Claud.
<4 Why was the violin brought on board, if it
wasn't meant to be used, Gen ? "

To this pertinent inquiry Miss Gervis vouchsafed
no reply ; but by way, I suppose, of
showing us that there was at least no ground
for the inference which Claud had drawn from
her hesitation, she rose immediately and disappeared
into her cabin, whence she presently
emerged, bearing the instrument carefully and
tenderly in her arms, after the manner of
violinists, as though it had been a sentient
creature. As soon as, with the aid of Miss
Potts and the piano, she had tuned it to her
satisfaction — a work of some little time and
difficulty — she sat down, and, declining the
elder lady's offer of accompaniment, began to
play.

When I was a young man — in the era, that
is to say, of pointed waists, bare arms, ringlets,
and heelless shoes, attached to the wearer's foot
by sandals — the harp used to be considered one
of the most powerful auxiliaries of feminine
charms ; and I dare say that, in the year 1850,

the spectacle of a fiddle-playing lady would have
been held more deserving of ridicule than of
admiration ; but the times change, and we with
them ; and I suppose that nowadays the grace
of the violinist's attitude would no more be disputed
than the insipid tinkling which used to
delight our ears would be compared to the
divine harmony of the horse-hair and the catgut.
If, after shaving tomorrow morning, the
reader will take the trouble to raise his strop
to his shoulder, to execute a pass or two across
it with his comb, and to survey himself the
while in his looking-glass, he will at once perceive
the serious and rapt air conferred upon
his features by that obligatory bend of the
head and outward glance ; and although it is
possible that he may not be possessed of a pair
of eyes as large and soft, or of eyelashes as
long as Miss Gervis's, yet imagination will
doubtless help him a little here, and he will
gain some notion of what it was that we saw
in the dim main-cabin of the Siren on that
summer's evening. What we heard I shall not
attempt to describe. I am not a musical critic,
and were I to state honestly the effect produced
upon me by Genevieve's playing, I should probably
say some very absurd things, and convey
an entirely false idea of her talent. Her execution,

as I afterwards heard from competent
judges, was faulty and her method unorthodox ;
but I do not fancy that, if I had been informed
of this at the time, it would in any way have
lessened my pleasure in listening to her. I
have forgotten, if I ever knew, what it was that
she played. As far as I remember, it was only
a plaintive air, or succession of airs. The
charm lay in the manner, not the matter.
When amateurs wish to praise a musician who
has pleased them, and are at a loss to define
the secret of his power, they generally speak
of his performance as " sympathetic." The
adjective, in fact, has been made use of so unsparingly,
of late years, that one has grown a
little tired of it ; but it has the advantage of
being comprehensible ; and, indeed, I suppose
that it could have been only by the evoking
of some common sympathy that Genevieve kept
our little company silent and spell-bound for so
long as she did.

That Freddy Croft was profoundly impressed
his open mouth and the awe-struck admiration
in his blue eyes sufficiently testified ; nor have
I the slightest doubt in my own mind that
Genevieve's reign over the heart of this susceptible
young gentleman is to be dated from
that hour. When the last notes had died away,,

he relieved himself by a suppressed ejaculation,
which, to an understanding ear, spoke volumes.
What he said (for I happened to overhear him)
was only " By George ! " but it must be borne
in mind that Sir Frederick belongs to an epoch
and a school whose vernacular is nothing if not
compendious. After this, it became an established
custom that Miss Gervis should play
to us every evening ; and her melodies were
always of the same order, old Italian ballads or
plaintive French peasant lays — suited, I suppose,
to the capacity of the audience, for Miss
Potts was careful to explain that her pupil had
studied under the first masters, and was capable
of performances very different in difficulty from
any that we had heard from her.

The crew used to steal up to the open skylights,
and listen. I caught glimpses of their
red caps sometimes against a strip of starry
sky. The steward would dawdle about in one
of the cabins, leaving the door ajar ; the captain
generally posted himself half-way down the
companion, pretending to consult the weatherglass.
During that hour the whole ship's company
was under the spell of the enchantress ;
and one of them, I think, was so successfully
bewitched that he made no effort to recover his
liberty for the remainder of the twenty-four.

Freddy Croft was no adept at hiding his feelings.
If he disliked a man, he went as near
telling him so as the customs of an over-sophisticated
age will allow ; if, on the other hand,
he took a fancy to a new acquaintance, he began
calling him " old fellow," slapping him on the
back, and playing practical jokes upon him immediately.
Now, being fully persuaded that
Genevieve was his first and last love, he followed
her about like a dog, and paraded his
adoration in so open a manner that I was sometimes
afraid lest Claud should think it his duty
to make some remark upon it, and that so the
harmony of our party might be disturbed. But
nobody ever minded Freddy Croft. Even Miss
Potts, whose views of flirtation in the abstract
were those of an English old maid imbued with
continental notions as to the bringing up of
young ladies, would only smile when he showed
some signal mark of infatuation, and whisper tome
that Sir Frederick was a very charming
young man ; but mercurial, she feared — too
mercurial. As for the object of this unstinted
worship, she appeared to me to take it much as
the rest of us did, rather as a joke than a reality,
and to accept her slave's homage graciously,
but without attaching too much importance toit.
And so every one was contented, and the

days went merrily by, and the prologue of this
narrative approached its close.

It must have been about a fortnight from the
time of our start, when, one hot, airless night,
we drifted into Torbay. We had been loitering
along the coast, without any definite plan,
stopping where the fancy took us, or as the
winds and tides suited. Something had been
said about visiting the Channel Islands, or
running across to Cherbourg ; but as none of
us cared much in which direction our course
might be shaped, except Miss Potts, who expressed
a very decided opinion in favour of
keeping in sight of the English coast, these
projects had been allowed to drop ; and now,
pursuing our slow westward course, we were
making for Torquay, having got belated, after
a long day of calms and varying light airs.

What is it going to be, Evans ? " asked
Claud, sauntering aft towards the skipper, who
held the tiller, and glancing up at the flapping
sails. Any chance of a breeze, do you think ? "

"We're a-going to have it poor and paltry,
I'm afraid, sir. As much as we shall do to get
the anchor down by midnight."

The air was heavy and close. In the afternoon
a thunderstorm had broken far away to
the southward ; and that part of the heavens

was still obscured by a bank of black clouds,
against which the summer lightning flashed
incessantly ; but overhead the stars twinkled ina
clear sky, the wind, what there was of it,
coming in fitful puffs off the land. Genevieve
and Freddy were leaning over the lee bulwarks,
watching the phosphorescent light on the sea ;
Miss Potts was below ; and I, stretched full-length
upon a rug, was enjoying a cigar and
one of those pleasing reveries which belong
neither to wakefulness nor sleep. Possibly I
may have crossed the border ; at all events, it
seemed to me that I had barely lost consciousness
for a minute when I was startled by a
shout from Evans behind me. Some stir and
commotion was going on ; I heard the sound
of bare feet running on the deck ; I glanced
upwards, and saw that the stars had vanished ;
and then there came a roar and a shriek through
the air, a shower of spray drenched me to the
skin, and I was shot head over heels to the
other side of the vessel.

I expected this," I muttered, as I picked
myself up ; but no one heard this audacious
assertion through the howling of the wind and
the hissing of the rain, which had now begun
to fall in torrents, and it is certain that, if I
had foreseen what was coming, my prescience

had not been shared by those who should have
known better, for the squall had burst upon
us before there had been time to shorten sail,
and presently a loud crash let us know that we
had carried away our main-topmast.

In the midst of the hurly-burly Miss Potts's
head was seen appearing at the top of the companion.


Don't be alarmed, Miss Potts," sung out
Freddy, who happened to be close by ; " there's
no danger — there's no fear."

I beg your pardon, Sir Frederick," she
answered, in a sepulchral voice ; " there maybe
no danger, but I can assure you that there
is a great deal of fear."

I tried to persuade her to go below again ;
but she waved me aside. " I know my duty,"
said she. " Where is Genevieve ? Let me goto
her."

And, catching sight of her charge, who,
wrapped in an oilskin coat, was clinging to
the bulwarks and watching the storm in perfect
serenity, she staggered wildly across the deck,
and flung her arms round her protecting. I
don't know what good the poor old soul
imagined she could do ; but it was rather
touching to see how, in the midst of her own
mortal terror, her chief thought was for her
beloved pupil.

It was all over in less than a quarter of an
hour. The wind and the rain swept away
seawards, and from over the ragged edge of
a black thunder-cloud the moon looked down
upon a smoothly heaving sea. She looked
down, too, upon a group which, somehow or
other, has become permanently imprinted upon
my mental vision. Why is it that certain
people are associated in one's memory with
certain circumstances, and that, in thinking of
them, one's mind invariably and involuntarily
recurs to some particular scene ? Whenever
my thoughts turned to Genevieve during the
months that elapsed before we met again, I
pictured her to myself as she stood that night
in Torbay, upon the wet deck, her tarpaulin
coat flung back from her shoulders, her dark
hair a little blown about by the storm and
glistening with spray-drops, the angry cloud-rack
behind her, and the moonbeams falling
upon that curious, wistful face. Miss Potts
had not stirred from the attitude into which
she had thrown herself in her first agitated
impulse, and still clung tightly to the erect
girlish form which seemed more fitted to lend
support than to claim it. Facing this oddly-contrasted
pair, and between me and them,
were Claud and Freddy Croft, two dark,

indistinct figures. I dare say my fancy may
have been influenced in a great measure by
what I had already been told about Miss
Gervis's life and prospects ; but it appeared tome,
while I gazed at her in that weird light,
as if she were standing alone in a stormy world,
with no one but her trembling, grotesque-looking
ex-governess to lend her a helping hand.
I was making myself quite unhappy over it,
when Freddy, in a loud, cheerful voice, said
it was about time for a brandy-and-soda all
round, after that. And so the group broke
up, and my rather sinister vision was dispelled.


The next morning Claud and I went ashore
to get our letters from the post-office ; for,
after all, it is not so easy to cut one's self off from
civilization at a moment's notice, and I had
found myself obliged to post a line at Lyme
Regis, giving a clue to my whereabouts. Now,
as I had expected, a fine crop of letters was
waiting for me at Torquay, more than one of
which made it advisable for me to leave for
London by the first express train.

Everything must have an end," says I consolingly,
looking up from my correspondence
at my companion, who lifted his eyes, with a
rather chapfallen air, from his.

I suppose so," he answered, sighing. " The
misfortune is that things will not always end
in the way they ought. Read this : it does not
sound very hopeful, I'm afraid." And he
handed me the following characteristic note.

"Southlands, 15th July, 187—.

My dear Claud,

Your communication of this morning
was a relief to me, for I was beginning to
dwell with some uneasiness upon the extreme
awkwardness of the situation that would develop
itself in the event of your having been all
drowned. It distresses me to cut short what
seems to be a most enjoyable cruise ; but I fear
I must ask you to return here as quickly as you
can. We have been doing our duty, the
Princess and I, to the best of our ability. The
nobility and gentry of the district have called
upon us, and we have returned their visits. I
think I may say that I have committed no
solecisms, while the Princess has achieved that
success which her many amiable qualities entitle
her to expect. She now reminds me that the
villa which she has taken for the summer-season
at Trouville has been standing vacant for some
weeks, and that if Genevieve is to accompany
her thither, she ought to lose no further time

in packing up her clothes and buying the
necessary new ones.

Our life here is conducive to health and
admirably suited to contemplative natures ;
but it lacks that element of excitement which
ladies accustomed to Parisian society naturally
require. In fact, if it were not for a near
neighbour of ours, Flemyng by name, and old
Mr. Knowles — both of whom are delightful
characters in their way — it is just possible that
I might find it a trifle wearisome myself.

I hope young Croft's rest has not been
disturbed by anxious thoughts of the girl he
left behind him. Two days after your departure,
the mother came up here, demanded to
see me, and made such a noise that the servants
were scandalized, and I fear jumped to mistaken
conclusions. I waited until she had exhausted
herself, and then gave her a glass of wine and
begged her to go away, assuring her that I
had not the most distant idea what had become
of her faithless swain. I have since ascertained
that she and her daughter have left
the neighbourhood ; so Croft may return in
safety.

I shall be obliged if you will send me a
telegram, on receipt of this, to say that you
will be back in the course of three days. If

the wind is contrary, the railway will restore
you to your eager family.

Affectionately,

V V. G."

Certainly, as Claud said, it did not sound
very hopeful. I magnanimously forbore, however,
to remind him that I had considered his
experiment a doubtful one from the first, and,
for want of something better to say, reverted
to my original undeniable proposition that
everything must have an end ; adding that I,
for my part, must start, that same evening, for
London, and suggesting that we might perhaps
all travel together. But with a rising barometer
and a fine westerly breeze blowing
steadily in from the Atlantic, Claud would not
hear of railway trains ; and so, in the course
of a few hours, I found myself bidding adieu
to the new friends who already seemed like old
ones, and whom I hoped never to lose sight of
permanently again.

They all came up to the station to see me off;
and Miss Potts actually forgot decorum so far
as to wave her pocket-handkerchief when the
train began to move and I stood at the carriage
window, bowing a last farewell, with my hat in
my hand.

I take off my hat to the reader too. The
time has come for me to retire from the footlights
and cease to distract the attention of the
audience from the principal actors, who must
now set about playing their several parts in
earnest. From time to time I shall pop in
unexpectedly, no doubt, much as I often do
in real life ; but with the progress of the drama
I am in no way personally concerned ; and I
am conscious of having already thrust myself
forward somewhat unwarrantably.

CHAPTER VI.

THE PRINCESS OURANOFF.

It is marvellous — so I am informed — how little
is known, or required to be known, of the
antecedents of distinguished foreigners mixing
in the highest circles of London society. Gossip
busies itself with these eminent persons ; stories
are told about them, as about free-born Britons;
but the general feeling appears to be that such
stories are more likely to be false than true,
that there is, at all events, no means of verifying
them, and that, so long as the strangers
have decent-sounding names, a sufficiency of
money to spend, and the countenance of their
resident minister or ambassador, London need
ask no further questions with reference to them.
And I have observed that a like generous
disposition prevails in the somewhat lower
stratum of society in which I have myself the
honour to move. Living, as we do, in a right

VOL. I. l

little, tight little island, the echoes of the continental
capitals seldom reach our ears, and
when they do, are apt to be received with that
mixture of incredulity and contempt which their
origin merits at the hands of a high-minded and
truth-loving people.

But in Paris, the world's metropolis, it is
otherwise. The fashionable world of that gay
city, connected by family ties with every aristocracy
in Europe, drawing its ever-changing
recruits from the four quarters of the globe,
and furnishing the language in which all nationalities
have agreed to interchange ideas, is
never at a loss for information as to the past
lives of its members, and hears the scandals
of foreign lands as London hears the scandals
of the provinces. Everybody in Paris, therefore,
knew, with more or less of accuracy, the
history of the Princess Ouranoff's life — a history
the facts of which were, as it happened, so
sensational that there was little scope left for
exaggeration to improve upon them.

Within a year of her first marriage, the
Princess Ouranoff found herself a widow, young,
wealthy, beautiful and independent ; and the
very first use that she made of her freedom
(after erecting a handsome granite monument
over the grave of the elderly gentleman who

had so obligingly provided her with a name
and a fortune, and relieved her of their burdensome
adjunct) was to start on a journey of
discovery into the outer world. Russians and
Americans, when they leave their respective
fatherland, gravitate invariably and inevitably
towards Paris ; but as the latter nation commonly
make a brief halt on their way in
London, so the former are wont to pause
awhile at Dresden ; and it was in the staid
little Saxon capital that the Princess chose to
pitch her wandering tent in the early days of
her widowhood, ere yet the gloss was off her
mourning robes or the bloom of youthful inexperience
had been brushed from her mind.

It may be supposed that so rich a matrimonial
prize was not suffered to remain long in
seclusion, and that aspirants to the succession
of the late Prince Ouranoff began to present
themselves as soon as — perhaps a little sooner
than — decency permitted ; nor is it likely that
the Princess, whom Nature had dowered with
an ample stock of vanity and excitability, would
in any case have held out for more than a few
months against the fascinations of one or other
of her suitors. But the news of her sudden
alliance with Count Ladislaus Ponetzky, an 
Polish refugee, took everybody by

surprise, and was received with the greatest
displeasure in high quarters at St. Petersburg.

This Ponetzky appears to have been an
adventurer of the half-knave, half-dupe description
so common among the ranks of patriotic
conspirators. Possibly he may have told the
truth in averring that he was bound, body and
soul, to certain secret societies, and that his
frequent and mysterious absences and his heavy
calls upon his wife's purse were ordered by
those whom he dared not disobey ; but unfortunately
he had other habits not to be
accounted for by any theory of exterior influences.
The poor Princess, who had allowed
the man's dare-devil bearing to take her heart
by storm, had a bad time of it with him, by all
accounts, and was probably not long in repenting
of her bargain. Be that as it may, her
second husband ceased to trouble her almost as
speedily as her first had done. For, the police
having caught him in the streets of Warsaw,
one night, disguised in costume, and in liquor,
he was incontinently packed off to Siberia, and,
while making an attempt to escape on his way
thither, was shot dead.

The Countess Ponetzky, now for the second
time a widow, hastened to throw herself at the
feet of the Czar, to implore his pardon, and to

protest that her loyalty had never been shaken
for a moment by the unhappy criminal who was
no more. She was beautiful, she had been
unfortunate, she pleaded very prettily — and she
was forgiven. When Vincent Gervis, then a
widower of some few years' standing, was
appointed first secretary of embassy at the
Russian court, and betook himself to his post
with his two children, he found the Princess
Ouranoff (she had resumed her first husband's
name on her return home) living in great
splendour at St. Petersburg, surrounded by
parasites and looked upon with special favour
by the Imperial family.

Gervis at that time enjoyed the reputation
of being one of the most fascinating men in
Europe. He was no longer young, he had
never been very good-looking, but he was
certainly clever, and he had the rare gift of
always knowing how to say the right thing to
the right person. Moreover, he had married
money, and was in far easier circumstances than
the general run of diplomatists ; and this of itself
gave him a certain standing, the advantages
of which he thoroughly understood. In short
not to waste time in chronicling unimportant
details — he had no great difficulty in inducing
the Princess to brave the perils of matrimony

a third time. It was a love-match, some people
said. Others, of course, asserted that the
Englishman knew what he was about, and
cared less for his bride's golden locks than for
her gold coins. Others, again, shook their
heads, and hoped the Princess might not have
cause to regret the surrender of her fortune
and her liberty to a man old enough to be her
father ; while some malicious persons laughed
in their sleeves, and whispered that the fair
Varna was capable of giving a middle-aged
husband some anxious hours. But what everyone
was forced to admit, in the sequel, was that
the newly-married pair lived together in perfect
amity and apparent mutual devotion for more
than a twelvemonth. At the expiration of that
time Mr. Gervis left the diplomatic service, and
set out on a tour through Germany and Switzerland
with his wife, and St. Petersburg saw
them no more. That some catastrophe, involving
a permanent rupture between the
husband and wife, took place during this journey
every one is agreed ; but how or when it occurred,
or what its nature may have been, have
always remained matters of surmise ; for neither
of the parties to the quarrel ever gave any
explanation of it, and the two children, Claud
and Genevieve, had been sent straight from

St. Petersburg to Paris under the protection
of Miss Potts, and consequently could not be
called as witnesses by inquiring friends.

It was in the spring* of the year that the
Gervis manage left Russia, and in the autumn
the Princess Ouranoff established herself in
that commodious premier dtagc in the Chasse
d'Antin which she occupied until the imperial
demolitions of a few years back drove her to
the Boulevard Malesherbes. Her husband setup
his household gods on the storey above ;
and in this strange fashion they continued to
live, keeping separate establishments beneath
the same roof, meeting occasionally upon terms
of frigid politeness, from time to time showing
themselves in the world together, but neither
of them ever attempting by word or act to
exercise the slightest control over the other's
independence. The children formed the connecting
link between the first and second floors,
spending as much of their time in the one set
of rooms as in the other, and bestowing perhaps
the lion's share of their young affections upon
the pretty, beautifully-dressed step-mother, who
played with them, took them out driving in the
Bois, and gave them unlimited toys and bonbons,
and who was herself so childish in many
ways that they felt themselves upon a footing

of equality with her, and never thought of
addressing her by any other name than Varna.
And so, for a time, matters went smoothly
enough, and if the children could have remained
children always, the split in the household
might have gone on being placidly and comfortably
ignored ; but when, in the natural
course of things, Claud was sent to Eton, and
Genevieve began to associate with other girls
of her own age, it was inevitable that they
should discover the antagonism that existed
between their father and his wife, and perhaps
no less inevitable that they should range themselves
upon the one side or the other. In
Claud's case no very strong feeling manifested
itself, except a natural wish that two people
whom he loved should be reconciled ; but as
the years went on, he became more and more
his fathers companion, and the feminine contingent
were made to understand that bitter
speeches about the head of the family must not
be uttered in his presence. Character and
circumstances converted Genevieve into a far
more violent partisan. Affectionate by nature,
but reserved and somewhat over-sensitive, she
loved the caresses and endearing epithets of
which Varna was ever prodigal as much as
she dreaded Gervis's cold smile and sarcastic

politeness. The former would devour her with
kisses after a separation of twenty-four hours ;
the latter would go away for months at a time,
and greet her with a cool nod on his return.
Rightly or wrongly, she was persuaded that
her father detested her ; and at the time when
this story opens, I fear that she was not very
far from reciprocating the sentiment which she
attributed to him. Miss Potts, who believed
her employer to be a thoroughly wicked man —
heartless, selfish, and cruel — was in a great
measure responsible for this undesirable state
of things ; but the girl's antipathy had originated
rather in pity for Varna's supposed wrongs
than in any resentment for neglect on her own
score.

The Princess Ouranoff, indeed, was subject
to odd, intermittent fits of terror of her husband
terror which Genevieve could only account
for upon the hypothesis of some secret ill-usage,
and which was wholly at variance with the
cheerful little woman's customary demeanour.
Sometimes, in the midst of her voluble prattle,
Gervis would let fall some apparently innocent
remark in his low, deliberate tones, and then
the Princess's eyes would dilate, her flow of
words would die away upon her lips, and she
would cower before her husband, like a bird

before a snake, he watching her, the while,,
from between his half-closed eyelids with an
unfathomable expression. Most unprejudiced
observers would have guessed that the lady
had a bad conscience ; Genevieve burned with
an indignant suspicion that what she saw was
a manifestation of sheer physical fright. And
such was in fact the impression which Varna
did not hesitate to convey. " L'infame ! il ma
f rappee ! " she sobbed out, one day, when
Genevieve found her in floods of tears in her
drawing-room ; and the girl believed the assertion,
which happened to be an entirely false
one, and never forgot it, even though she could
not help knowing that her step-mother was
habitually and incurably untruthful. She was
not the only one who had been coaxed out of
a rigid impartiality of judgment by the little
Princess. Everybody agreed in pronouncing
Varna charming ; no one thought of judging
her by ordinary standards. She was born to
be a spoilt child ; and as a spoilt child she was
treated by all the world, with the solitary
exception of her husband. At the age of
thirty-five she was still as pretty and as girlish
as she had ever been. Time and trouble had
left no lines on her pink and white cheeks, nor
was there any symptom, inward or outward,

about her of the flight of youth. She lived a
merry life in the merriest of modern cities ;
she had as many admirers as a woman could
wish for ; and if there was a skeleton anywhere
among her belongings, she kept it pretty successfully
out of sight.

Such was the lady who welcomed Genevieve
back to Southlands with an effusion which
made the sober English servants stare.

Come upstairs," she cried, passing her
little arm round her step-daughter's waist ;
come at once ! I have a thousand things
to say to you." And then, as soon as they
were in Genevieve's room, with the door shut
and locked — " At last ! " she exclaimed, throwing
herself down upon a sofa, and relieving her
pent-up feelings by something between a yawn
and a sigh. " Another week of that life, and
decidedly I should have gone down to the sea
and drowned myself!"

w Poor Varna ! " said Genevieve, compassionately.
" It has been very bad, then ? "

Bad is not the word. It has been insupportable
! — oh, but insupportable ! " cried the
Princess, whose English, though fluent and
free from foreign accent, was constructed upon
Gallic lines. " Imagine to yourself what a
situation ! Do you think I would ever have

consented to it, if I had known what it was
going to be ? Do you think he would ever
have consented to it ? It is that unhappy
Claud who is cause of everything, with his
absurd ideas. Enfin ! — since it is over now! — "

Has he — has he made you unhappy ? "
asked Genevieve apprehensively.

These two, in talking together of Gervis,
invariably made the personal pronoun do duty
for his name.

The Princess broke into a little, high-pitched,
not unmelodious laugh.

Unhappy ? " she echoed ; " that depends
upon what you call unhappy. He has behaved
very well. I also — I have behaved on ne peut
mieux. But what a life ! mon dieu, mon dieu,
what a life ! Can you not see us sitting tete-tete
at dinner ; he at one end of a long table,
I at the other, both perfectly silent, and three
servants staring us out of countenance ? There
were moments when I felt I must scream with
laughter — only I was frightened, and that preserved
me. You know that terrible polite
manner which freezes the marrow of ones
bones — ' At what hour would you like the
carriage to-day ? It is time to return Lady
Jones's visit, and, with your permission, I will
-accompany you.' y ' Here the Princess gave a

very fair imitation of her husbands languid
manner and drawling enunciation. " I reply,
4 Pray do not sacrifice yourself; I am capable
of facing miladi alone.' — ' Do not mention such
an ugly word as sacrifice ' (with the air of a
saint and martyr) ; ' the duty of paying a visit
of ceremony will be made more than pleasant
by the charm of your society.' Then off we
go, in a big barouche, through the dusty roads
and lanes, cahin-caha. Sometimes he points
out the beauties of the landscape ; but more
generally he lies back, with his eyes shut, and
says nothing. All the time the devil is playing
with my poor nerves. I experience the
strangest sensations. I long to do something
desperate — to tickle him or to knock off his hat.
Then comes the visit. Oh, these English ! one
must see them in their own country homes to
understand to what a point they can be stupid,
ignorant, awkward ! He likes them. He finds
them good people, and amusing in their fashion.
It is to irritate me that he says such things, I
suppose. Two of them are to dine here tonight
— a Mr. Flemyng and his daughter. She
is not so bad — a pretty girl, clever and well-dressed
— the only Englishwoman I have met
here who is not quite a barbarian. As for him,
he is a savant, a philosopher with white hair,

who talks, talks, talks. I do not understand
him, and I do not listen to him. Ah, well !
I am near the last day of it all now ; and I
shall not soon be caught in this country again,
I promise you. Dis done, can you be ready
the day after tomorrow ? "

Of course I can be ready, if I am to go,"
Genevieve answered, a little absently. She
had been standing at the window, looking out
at one of the loveliest views in England, and
perhaps had not been paying much attention to
Varna s graphic sketch of life at Southlands.

"If you are to go ! " shrieked the Princess,
starting up from her sofa, and pouncing upon
the speaker, like an angry little sparrow.
You speak as if you would rather not go.
Ah, I understand — you are like the rest ; you
are tired of me, and wish to drive me away.
You are quite right. Desert me, and you only
desert a most unfortunate woman, who never
brings good luck to those whom she loves.
But I thought you were more constant, Genevieve.


And the little lady hid her face in her hands,
and sobbed.

Genevieve drew away those plump, jewelled
fingers gently, and held them between her own,
which were larger, firmer, and, as some people

thought, better shaped. She was accustomed
to such outbreaks, and knew that there were no
tears in the Princess's eyes.

How can you talk such nonsense, Varna?"
she said. " My home has always been with
you, and always will be. What other home
could I have ? "

The Princess was speedily pacified, and, after
many embraces, offered an apology and an
explanation. " I ask you a thousand times
pardon for having doubted you. It was foolish
of me — it was wicked — but my nerves have
been upset. Listen," she went on, lowering
her voice mysteriously ; " I think he has a plan
about you."

A plan about me ? That would be something
new. In general, I doubt whether he
knows that I exist when I am not in the room."

Ah, bah ! he forgets less than you think.
The other day, he terrified me by asking suddenly,
apropos of nothing at all, whether I had
found a parti for you yet; and when I answered
that you were too young, and that I had not
dreamt even of such a thing, he remarked,
That is well ; for I should not consent to her
marrying a Frenchman.' "

Genevieve laughed. "Is that all ? " she asked.

That is all he said at the time ; but coming

from him, that means a great deal. And afterwards
he asked me whether I held very much
to taking you to Trouville. I am convinced
that he has the intention to marry you to some
Englishman ; and probably — for you know
he never speaks until he has made up his mind
he has already fixed upon the person. That
young man who was on board the yacht with
you is well-born and rich, is he not ? All this,
do you see, is done on purpose to spite me.
He knows very well that I — ah ! "

This sharp ejaculation was called forth by a
certain change which the Princess's quick observation
had detected upon the countenance
of her companion. The daylight was fading
fast ; but there could be no doubt that Genevieve
was blushing, nor that she was struggling ineffectually
to keep back a smile from her lips.
The Princess saw, and jumped, as usual, to
conclusions.

It is as I suspected, then ! It was he who
planned this voyage. He has laid a trap for
you, and already you have walked into it.
No ! do not answer me ; I see it all. You
have permitted yourself to fall in love with the
first man who has paid court to you ; and now
I shall be left alone in the world. Was ever
any one so unfortunate as I am ! "

Genevieve laughed outright. "Was ever
any one so unreasonable ? you ought to say.
If I am to be married to an Englishman, or to
any one else, against my will, as you seem to
expect, it will not be to Sir Frederick Croft,
who is a very nice little man, but who will not
ask me. Don't you know that the reason of
our taking him away in the yacht was that he
is desperately in love with some lady from
whom his friends want to rescue him ? You
need not be alarmed, Varna ; that prize is not
for me."

Why did you blush, then ? " asked the
Princess suspiciously.

I did not blush."

And with this audacious falsehood on Genevieve's
part the colloquy came to an end ; for
now the sound of a distant gong was heard,
and the Princess, hurrying towards the door,
explained : " It is their way of announcing
dinner. Come ; he will be furious if he is
kept waiting."

If Mr. Gervis was ever furious, he certainly
did not manifest his fury through any of the
ordinary channels ; nor could any one have
looked meeker than he did when the two ladies
entered the drawing-room. He was sitting ina
low armchair, twirling his thumbs, and listen-vol.

i. m

ing with respectful attention to a hale, venerable-looking
gentleman, who, with one fat hand
thrust into his waistcoat and the other gently
beating time to the measure of his periods,
was apparently delivering a carefully-prepared
speech to an audience of one. The orator
broke off to shake hands with his hostess and
to bow to Genevieve, and then resumed the
thread of his discourse.

Yes, my dear Mr. Gervis, education, if
bestowed in the manner now proposed, will
prove a curse to this country, not a blessing.
It has been truly said that a little knowledge
is a dangerous thing. Dangerous, I would
add, in more ways than one. So long as the
labouring classes remain totally ignorant they
will accept their lot in life as a necessity, and
will consent to be led by those who know
better than they can do what is best for them.
But teach the working-man to read, and then
leave him to himself, and what is the result ?
Why, that, instead of reading what will open
his mind and lead him towards a true understanding
of the nature of things, he turns to the
vile newspapers whose sole mission it is to
make him dissatisfied. Knowledge is like a
nettle. Touch it, and it will sting you ; grasp
it firmly, and — and — er "

o

You can make soup of it," suggested
Gervis.

"Just so. The very illustration I was about
to employ. From the earliest times, it has
been a necessity of social life that the ruder
kinds of manual labour should be performed by
the ignorant ; and if you insist upon educating
these people against their will, the end of it all
will be that — among other things — you will
have no agricultural labourers left."

Genevieve listened with some interest to
the handsome old gentleman who stated his
opinions with so much sonorous decision. Of
the merits of the question which he was discussing
she knew nothing ; nor was it so much
what he said as the way in which he said it
that, taken in conjunction with an expansive
forehead and flowing white hair, impressed her
with the conviction that she was in the presence
of a man of wisdom and experience. Such was
in fact the character which Mr. Flemyng bore
among his neighbours, upon whom the capacious
forehead and the silvery locks had not been
without their effect. A country gentleman
who had never mounted a horse nor fired a
shot must, these good folks reasonably argued,
have something phenomenal about him ; and as
Mr. Flemyng was evidently not a lunatic, it

had long been agreed upon all hands to set him
down as a genius. The ascertained fact that
he spent the best part of his time in his library
seemed to add confirmation to this view ; and
now for many years Mr. Flemyng had been
known throughout the length and breadth of
Lynshire as a very superior person indeed.
Mrs. Knowles, it is true, had been heard to
assert that he was the biggest fool that ever
stood in two shoes ; but Mrs. Knowles's judgments
were notoriously emphatic rather than
just, and it was thought that, being herself a
superior person, she might not be wholly free
from jealousy of a possible rival.

At the dinner-table Genevieve found herself
seated next to the sage, who, before long, condescended
to address her directly.

"You have lived all your life abroad, Miss
Gervis, I understand. Now, how does England
strike you, looking at it, as you must do, from
a foreigner's point of view ? "

Genevieve began to think that a man who
could ask so exasperatingly silly a question as
this could hardly be a modern Solomon, after
all.

I am an Englishwoman, although I was
brought up abroad' she answered, an answer
of some kind being necessary.

"Just so — just so. I myself am a cosmopolitan.
Much as I value the privileges of a
British subject, I cannot help seeing that the
French have the advantage of us in some
respects, the Germans in others, and the
Italians, again, in others. Patriotism consists
in serving one's country, not in extolling it at
the expense of the rest of the civilized world."

I have long suspected that I was a patriot,"
murmured Gervis from the end of the table ;
44 now I am convinced of it. You have such a
clear way of putting things, Mr. Flemyng."

Mr. Flemyng smiled complacently. " Miss
Gervis has not yet answered my question,
though," said he.

First impressions are difficult to state concisely,
and are seldom to be trusted when
stated," observed Miss Potts in a solemn voice,
breaking silence for the first time.

Mr. Flemyng adjusted a pair of gold-rimmed
eye-glasses on his nose, and took a leisurely
survey of the speaker. Persons in the position
of Miss Potts should not be so ready to
obtrude themselves, he thought. After a
pause, he nodded at her patronizingly, remarked,
" Very true — very true," and then
turned to the Princess, who was yawning
behind her fan.

As for you, madame, I fear we shall never
succeed in naturalizing you among us. Paris
has attractions which we cannot aspire to rival.
You mean to desert us in a few days, I am
sorry to hear."

"It is very amiable of you to say that you
are sorry," replied Varna. " I, too, am sorry
to leave such charming acquaintances ; but I
have my little cottage at Trouville : as it is
there, I am bound to make use of it, you
understand."

To be sure. A most interesting neighbourhood,
that of Trouville. Did you ever turn
your attention to the subject of geology ? I
know of no district more rich in fossils than the
Norman and Breton coast."

Mr. Flemyng had a good deal to say upon
this topic, and said it at considerable length,
while the Princess yawned undisguisedly, and
occasionally made a grimace, indicative of weariness
and despondency, at Genevieve. Four
out of the seven people seated round the dinner-table
probably found the banquet a very tedious
one ; but to counterbalance that, the remaining
three enjoyed themselves amazingly. Mr.
Flemyng was always happy, so long as he was
permitted to declaim without interruption ; and
his daughter and Claud, whose acquaintanceship

had been renewed with satisfaction on both
sides, had no objection to the sonorous stream
of words, under cover of which they were
enabled to exchange their own observations,
unheard by others.

Well, and how have you been amusing
yourself since we met last ? " was the young
lady's first question. "Any more balcony-scenes
? I suppose you know that the one
subject of conversation hereabouts for the last
fortnight has been your spiriting away of
Freddy Croft. You have made a friend and an
enemy. Lady Croft would go through fire and
water for you, and Mrs. Lambert, I believe, has
sworn to have your blood. Luckily for you,
she herself has suddenly vanished — leaving her
bills unpaid, they say. What should you have
clone if she had brought an action for breach of
promise, and called you as witness of a certain
interesting episode ? "

You would have been called too," remarked
Claud.

I suppose so. What should we have said ?
Is it very wrong to perjure one's self in a good
cause, do you think ? "

Very, I should say. It lays you open to
imprisonment, with hard labour, too, which you
would not much like."

I would chance that. At all events, nothing
would have induced me to tell the truth."

Croft is very fortunate to have such a
thorough-going partizan at his back."

"Oh, I would do as much as that for anybody.
When one has seen a thing which one
has no business to see, the least one can do is
to behave as though one had not seen it. Not
but that I do feel a special interest in Freddy.
We are very old friends, he and I. Who is his
latest flame ? Your sister ? "

Genevieve ? Oh, dear no, I don't think so.
What could have made you imagine such a
thing as that ? " asked Claud, in a somewhat
displeased tone.

Don't look so angry. I did not mean to be
impertinent ; and I know brothers can never
believe that it is possible for any one to fall in
love with their sisters. I only asked, because
Freddy would not be Freddy unless he was
profoundly enamoured of somebody ; and as
there were only two ladies on board your yacht,
I believe, I chose the one that seemed tome
most likely to attract him. But perhaps
he has succumbed to the charms of the governess."


Perhaps he has. Miss Potts is not exactly
beautiful to look upon ; but she has all the

virtues. I don't know any one more morally
beautiful than she."

And your sister — is she morally beautiful
too ? She has a charming face. I wonder
whether she would allow/me to make friends
with her."

Claud said he could not imagine any one
refusing Miss Flemyng's friendship.

And yet, strange as it may appear, such a
thing has been known to happen. I can generally
hit it off pretty well with any description
of man, so long as he is a gentleman ; but with
girls I am not quite so sure of being successful.
Perhaps that is because I like men so much
better than women. It doesn't sound well to say
so ; but it is true, and I always try to tell the
truth. In the same way, I never attempt to
disguise my feelings towards children — whom
I abhor."

I don't think you really mean that," said
Claud.

Yes, I do, otherwise you may be sure I
should not say it ; for nothing lowers one's
character so much in the eyes of most people as
that admission. You, for instance, cannot even
bring yourself to believe in such unnatural
heartlessness. All the same, I dare say, if the
truth were told, you are not very fond of
children yourself."

I suppose you will put me down as an
imposter if I say that I am."

"No; I will take your word for it. But
most likely you have not had much to do with
them. You don't know what it is to have seven
small brothers and sisters who set it before
themselves as the chief aim of their existence to
worry you out of your senses. I don't ill-treat
them or box their ears, you know, and they
don't dislike me. On the contrary, I believe
they are very fond of me ; and I have a proper
amount of sisterly affection for them as individuals.
Collectively, I think they are simply
odious. Some day you must bring your sister
over to our tumble-down old house for a game
of lawn-tennis, which is our one stock amusement
; and then your love for children will be
put to the test. If you encourage them to overcome
their shyness — which you most likely will
do, being inexperienced — they will immediately
hang themselves about you, like a swarm of
bees, and pull your hair, and knock your hat off,
and run away with your stick ; and the chances
are that you will end by losing your temper. I
warn you that I have not the smallest control
over them ; so now you know what you have to
expect."

I think I can promise not to lose my

temper," said Claud, laughing. " Are you the
eldest of the family, then ? "

I hold that proud position at home for the
present. I have three elder brothers, all in
the navy, and all on foreign service. The rest
will follow suit, I expect, unless something
better turns up. It is the cheapest profession
for a young man — or rather the least ruinous.
I ought to mention that we are dreadfully badly
off; absolute paupers. I dare say you have
noticed that people with large families invariably
are."

You don't bear the outward signs of extreme
indigence," remarked Claud, with a side-glance
at his neighbours toilette, which indeed
was a model of careful finish. u As for comparative
poverty, I confess I don't consider
that any misfortune at all."

Oh, don't you ? It seems that our tastes
differ in more points than one. You like
children and straitened means ; I like independence
and wealth. What a sad pity it is that
we cannot change places ! "

These last words, happening to coincide with
a pause in the general conversation, reached
the ears of the philosopher on the other side of
the table.

Ah, the old story ! " said he, with the compassionate

smile of one above ordinary human
frailties. " Every one fancies his neighbour s
lot a happier one than his own. My dear
young people, believe me, if you could make
the exchange you wish for, you would find ita
very bad bargain, and would soon long to be
back in the state of life for which your education
and training have fitted you. You remember
Horace's Satire, Mr. Gervis —

Qui fit, Maecenas, ut nemo quam sibi sorte
Sei ratio demerit, seu fors objecerit "

But Mr. Flemyng was not allowed to finish
his quotation ; for at this point the Princess
rose unceremoniously, and made for the door.

That man is capable of reciting an entire
Latin poem without drawing breath," she whispered
to her step-daughter, as she pushed her
gently out of the room before her.

CHAPTER VII.

EXIT Varna.

The Princess spent a dull and weary evening.
While the ladies were alone it was not quite so
bad ; for Miss Flemyng had a great many
questions to ask as to how people were wearing
their hair in Paris, and whether short
dresses were really coming in again, and so on ;
and these were subjects upon which one could
at least speak with some interest. Moreover,
it transpired that the young woman possessed
some twenty or thirty yards of real old point
d'Alen^on, which she wished to dispose of to a
friend — being, as she honestly confessed, in sad
want of ready money — so that there seemed to
be the possibility of a genuine bargain in view.
But no sooner had one begun to feel ones way
a little, remarking that old lace was entirely out
of fashion, but that it might be worth inspecting
as a curiosity, than the droning of that insupportable

old father's voice was heard coming
nearer and nearer. Presently it was in the
room ; and then — bonsoir! What idea had hein
his head, that solemn, heavy animal, to plant
himself directly in front of your chair, and to
stun you with his interminable harangues ?
Why could he not stay in the dining-room, and
stupefy himself with port wine, like the other
rustics ? Did he imagine, by any chance, that
it was amusing to hear him talk ? Varna,
groaning inwardly, sighed, yawned, and affected
inattention ; but all was of no avail. Mr.
Flemyng had no more compassion upon her
than had the Ancient Mariner upon the wedding
guest. He had certain observations to make,
and he intended to make them : whether his
hearer were pleased or not was a detail of comparatively
small importance to him.

It was no less a matter than the destiny of
the immortal soul that he had brought in with
him from the dining-room, and was complacently
treating of. In a casual, impartial manner, he
cited authorities. Origen and Bishop Butler,
Plato and Louis Figuier — a queer medley of
writers, ancient and modern, jostled one another
in his glib discourse. He had a word of admiration
for Socrates and of patronage for St.
Paul. So much erudition might well have surprised

any one who had not read the last
number of the Bi Monthly Review, whence the
greater part of these quotations and comments
were drawn. Varna, in spite of herself, was
somewhat impressed. Gervis, leaning back in
his arm-chair, with his white face resting upon
his folded white hands, listened imperturbably,
and from time to time suoforested some trifling
difficulty, which the orator disposed of by a
hasty " Yes, yes — exactly so." Claud had
slipped away to the billiard-room to smoke a
cigarette ; and through the open doors could be
heard the distant click of the balls which he
was knocking about all by himself. Nina
Flemyng was sowing the seeds of a friendship
with Genevieve in the gloom of the conservatory.
Miss Potts, bolt upright in her cane
chair, was struggling with sleep, and getting
the worst of the contest. " Three or four more
evenings like this, and I would take poison,"
thought the poor Princess.

At length came the welcome sound of wheels
upon the gravel. Heaven be praised ! they
were going then, at last. Miss Flemyng
emerged, with somewhat suspicious alacrity,
from the conservatory to make her adieux.

Good-night, madame ; so very sorry weare
to lose you so soon. I will send up the

lace tomorrow morning for you to look at.
Oh, not the slightest trouble in the world. I
should like you to see it, because I believe it
really is good. 6^^-night. Good-night, Mr.
Gervis."

It was not to be denied that, for a provincial,
the girl had pleasing manners enough.

Claud and Genevieve accompanied their
guests into the hall, where many last words
of a less formal character were interchanged.
A good ten minutes elapsed before the carriage
drove away, and Claud could ask his sister's
opinion of their new friends.

I don't know them well enough yet to judge
what sort of people they are," she answered.

But you know whether you like them or
not. Miss Flemyng is very anxious to make
friends with you."

So she says. Don't you think she is a little
too — too expansive ? "

No, I don't," answered Claud, decisively.
I don't think so at all. I think she is charming
; and so willow, when you know her a little
better. I hope we shall see a great deal of the
Flemyngs this summer. I am going to take
you over there on Thursday, you know."

fX But I shall be gone before then," said
Genevieve.

I would not quite make up my mind to
that, if I were you," Claud remarked, lighting
his cigarette, as he stepped out into the porch.

Genevieve followed him, and stood leaning
against a pillar overgrown with clematis and
Virginia creeper, while she gazed up at the
twinkling stars. " My mind is made up forme,"
she said. " I have only to do as I am
told, you know."

And supposing you were told to remain
where you are ? "

I should have to remain, of course," answered
Genevieve. " That is the worst of
having been born a woman : all one's life long
one will have to obey somebody. But I don't
know," she added presently, in a tone of suppressed
resentment, " why I should be ordered
to stay here, where I am not wanted, when
Varna really does want a companion."

Who says you are not wanted here ? "
returned Claud. " I want you. The governor
wants you."

Why does he want me ? " asked the girl
bitterly. " Because he will have no souffre-couleur
when Varna is gone ? "

See here, Gen," said Claud, throwing away
the end of his cigarette and drawing a step
nearer to his sister ; "I wish you would try

VOL. I. N

to get on a little better with the governor.
After all, he is your father."

Oh, yes, I know that," answered Genevieve
quietly. "And he is Varna's husband."

Claud gave his shoulders an impatient jerk.
Suppose we leave that question alone," he
suggested. "It has two sides to it, I dare say,
like most questions ; and it seems just on the
cards that we may not know much about either.
I have tried interference, and it has not been
a brilliant success. Let them settle it in their
own way. At all events, the governor has
never done you any injury."

Genevieve broke off a spray of clematis,
and twisted it between her fingers, without
replying.

And he wishes you to stay in England fora
short time and make acquaintance with
English people. Surely that is not such a very
great thing to ask. Don't you see what a
difference it will make, if we have ladies in the
house ? What could he and I do, if we were
all alone here ? We could not amuse ourselves,
nor entertain our neighbours, nor make a home
of the place at all ; and the end of it would be
that, in a few weeks' time, it would be shut up,
and we should begin wandering over the face
of the earth again. But if you are here, the

Crofts can come, and — and Miss Flemyng, and
lots of people ; and you need not be afraid of
being dull. There are races, and cricket
matches, aud regattas, and no end of things
coming off — I was talking it all over with
Freddy Croft the other day — it would be quite
a new experience for you."

But Varna wants me," said Genevieve,
wavering.

"Hem!"

Oh, I know I'm not indispensable to anybody,"
returned the girl, rather sadly. " It is
not that. Only you don't think of Varna,
and of how dull it would be for her to be in
Trouville without any companion at all."

Now, my dear Gen, did you ever know
Varna at a loss for a companion in your life ?
Do you seriously mean to tell me that she has
not fifty bosom friends at Trouville ? And if
she wants to fill her house with aunts and
cousins, won't they swarm round her, like so
many flies, at a word ? Besides, the governor
told me before dinner that he would answer for
her consent."

Naturally. If I told my maid to sit up all
night, I would answer for her consent. But
she would not like it."

Well, well ; if Varna isn't a free agent, it

is no use bothering about her, is it ? Setting-her
aside, would you not rather be here than at
Trouville ? "

And then Genevieve confessed that she would
like to see a little more of England before
leaving it.

In the meantime, a characteristic dialogue
was being carried on in the drawing-room,
where Mr. Gervis and his wife had been left
to themselves.

I have a small favour to ask of you," the
latter began, rather nervously, as soon as the
door had closed behind her guests.

By a singular coincidence," remarked Mr.
Gervis, " I also have a small favour to ask of
you. Which of us shall ask first ? "

Oh, you, if you please. I can wait."

Mr. Gervis accordingly stated briefly his
wishes with regard to Genevieve, and received
full in his face the shower of high-pitched
protestations for which he had been prepared.

But it is unreasonable — simply unreasonable
what you ask of me ! If at least you had
told me a week or two ago, then I might have
found some one to take her place ; but now
I shall be shut up in my little hut over there,
like a squirrel in a cage ; for you do not
suppose, I imagine, that I shall have the

courage to walk about the plage without so
much as a dog or a cat of my own to keep
me in countenance. Ah, if you knew the
tongues of those ladies ! I can hear them from
here ! No ; it is impossible ! — it is not to bethought
of! If it were for the poor child's
happiness, I would not say so much ; I would
try to arrange something. But I know what
a cruel disappointment it will be for her ; she
does not amuse herself any better in this
country than I do. For the rest, I have
guessed your plan long ago ; you are going
to marry her to some heavy Englishman or
other, who will make her perfectly wretched."

I assure you," said Gervis, composedly,
that I do not contemplate anything of the
kind. I have no desire that she should marryat
all for some time to come. Indeed, to tell
you the truth, one of my reasons for wishing
to detain her here is that I am afraid of your
arranging a match for her with a Frenchman — ■
which, as I told you the other day, I could not
sanction."

Do you think I am in a hurry to be more
solitary than I am already ? When Genevieve
marries, I shall have no one in the house with
me but servants for nine months out of the
twelve."

Quite so. But with persons of your
generous and unselfish temperament one can
never feel secure. However, I think you may
count upon the young lady's being restored to
you unmarried and unengaged before the
autumn."

"If you will promise me that Still there

remains the question of the summer. Certainly
I am no longer a very young woman ; but I
am not yet either old enough or ugly enough
to appear at a watering-place without anything
in the shape of a companion."

I quite admit that. Will you have Potts ? "

No," answered the Princess, almost fiercely.
I will not have Miss Potts. I am not fond
of being spied upon. Oh, I know more than
you think. I know why you suggest Miss
Potts."

Gervis, who had been lying back in his chair,
slowly raised himself now, and looked his wife
steadily in the face. " May I ask what motives
you impute to me ? " he inquired blandly.

Varna opened and shut her fan several
times, and then turned away, with a short,
embarrassed laugh. "It is of no consequence''
she answered. " I did not mean to impute
anything."

Oh, I thought you did," said Gervis, sinking

back again. " But, as you say, it is of no
consequence ; and the admirable Potts is not
without defects. No doubt you will easily
induce one of your relatives to fill her place.
And now about the favour you said you had
to ask of me. Perhaps I may make so bold
as to assume that it is connected with ways and
means."

The Princess nodded.

How much ? " asked Gervis laconically.

Varna hesitated a moment, and then, bending
forward, mentioned a sum so large that
even Gervis, who prided himself upon never
manifesting surprise, could not repress a slight
elevation of the eyebrows. He made no remark,
however, but got up in his slow, languid
way, and crossed the room to a writing-table,
at which he seated himself, and began writing
a cheque.

Varna murmured some confused explanations.
" Those Paris tradesmen are brigands
if you saw the bills I have had to pay ! I
was obliged to have the whole appartement
painted and papered in the spring. And the
new victoria that I told you of — I am convinced
that I paid for it twice over ; only I
could not find the receipt. But all that is
nothing. It was my Aunt Sophie who appealed

to me for help. You know, one cannot refuse
one's own flesh and blood, and without this
advance she would have been simply ruined.
Her estates have not brought her in a sou this
year. Perhaps before Christmas I may be able
to repay you a part "

Gervis never turned his head. He signed
the cheque and blotted it carefully ; after which,
he rose, and held it out to his wife with a faint
smile. " Your Aunt Sophie must be a very
extravagant person," he remarked.

Varna looked at him in silence for a
moment. Then, as if prompted by an irrepressible
impulse, " You do not believe what
I say," she cried.

Not in the least," answered Gervis, with
perfect composure.

The Princess burst into a peal of genuine,
unaffected laughter, checking herself abruptly
in the midst of it, like a child afraid of being
scolded.

I ought really to apologize for my rudeness,"
Gervis said. " It must be the insular
climate that is brutalizing me already. My
only excuse is that you told me, yesterday
morning, that that aunt of yours had inherited
a second fortune."

"It is true. I had forgotten," answered

Varna, laughing again. She was not at all
offended or ashamed ; only a good deal amused
at her own stupidity and her husband's odd
ways.

Shall we strike a bargain ? " suggested the
latter. " We each began by saying we had
a favour to ask. You are now in a position
to minister to the wants of your Aunt Sophie,
or perhaps of a person still nearer and dearer
to you. Allow me, on my side, to keep
Genevieve for a few weeks, and so to gratify
the whim of a person especially dear to me."

"I do not understand. What persons are
you speaking of ? " asked Varna, with a
troubled look.

My dear madam, is there any one in the
world whom you and I love more than our
respective selves ? "

Ourselves ? "

I say, ourselves — not one another, bien
entendu. You will be so kind, then, as not to
oppose me in this small matter ? A thousand
thanks. Your protegee shall be restored to you
as soon as she finds us intolerable ; possibly
even sooner."

And you will promise me that she shall not
marry that young man whom you sent on board
the yacht with her ? "

MATRIMONY.

Heaven forbid that I should make any
promise at all where a woman is concerned !
But I will go so far as to say that I cannot
conceive anything more improbable."

And with this strong expression of opinion
Varna was fain to be satisfied. After a few
minutes she retired for the night, Gervis holding
the door open, and bowing ceremoniously,
as she rustled past him ; but before going to
bed, she paid a visit to her step-daughter's room
in order to announce that she had changed her
plans. She had a queer sort of caricature of a
conscience, which may perhaps have suggested
to her that some equivalent was due for the
cheque which she had thrust into her pocket.

After all, I am going to leave you in the
castle of the ogre," said she cheerfully. " I
have been thinking things over, and I have
made up my mind not to be selfish. I know
you wish to see a little more of England : that
is quite natural ; and it would not be fair to
hurry you away. I said so to him ; and he
agreed with me. He is not without his redeeming
qualities, the ogre. He will not eat
you ; on the contrary, he will be kind to you,
and will let you amuse yourself as much as you
please. Only I think you would do well not
to scowl at him, when you meet him. No, no ;

I will not hear any objections ; it is all settled.
Amuse yourself well, ma petite, and do not
forget your poor Varna, who will be very
solitary without you, all these weeks."

And so the Princess betook herself to her
bed, soothed, no doubt, by a comfortable sense
of self-approval in that she had done what in
her lay towards the promotion of a friendly
feeling between the father and daughter. That
she had not represented the facts of the case
quite correctly is not at all likely to have
troubled her. Claud, who took a broad, philosophical
view of human nature, used often to
say that Varna was physically incapable of
telling the truth, and that it would be as unreasonable
to quarrel with her for lying as to
blame a blind man for running up against you
in the street.

Just before the departure of the up-express,
two days later, the station-master, the three
porters, and the knot of loungers who are
generally to be seen congregated round the
bookstall at the Beachborough station during
the summer months, were privileged to behold
a really touching scene. A lady of diminutive
stature, dressed in the neatest of grey travelling-costumes,
was standing beside the door of the
compartment reserved for her, alternately pressing

her handkerchief to her eyes and raising
herself on tiptoe to embrace a tall, dark-haired
girl, whose features seemed to express mingled
sorrow and remorse. A young gentleman of
considerable personal attractions, a footman
bearing rugs and umbrellas, and a lady's-maid
with a dressing-case, held themselves a few
paces aloof, as if unwilling to intrude upon this
painful leave taking. Not until the bell had
rung, and all the other passengers were in their
places, could the two ladies be induced to let
one another go. The guard, respectfully addressing
the elder of them as " Yer 'highness,"
was compelled to inform her twice that she was
keeping everybody waiting, and finally to have
recourse to a gentle movement of compulsion,
before he could sound his whistle, and start the
train.

The emotions of the great seldom fail to
obtain interest and sympathy, and, even before
the station-master had disclosed the rank of the
illustrious traveller, it was felt to be highly
creditable to the occupant of a reserved compartment
that she should weep like any common
person.

The Princess of Youramuff in Germany,"
said the obsequious official, in answer to several
inquiries. "Married to Mr. Gervis, of South-lands.

Her 'highness proceeds to Dover to-day,
long rotitc for the continent. Please to stand o'
one side for a moment, ma'am, and allow the
young lady to pass."

The great Lord Courtney himself could
hardly have commanded more reverence than
did Genevieve, as, with downcast eyes, she
passed out to her carriage. For how can we
simple Lynshire folks be expected to know that
there exist nations so inconsequent as to designate
the least important among their nobility
by the proud title of prince ?

Genevieve was much ashamed of herself.
She had allowed Varna to depart far too
easily, she thought ; she had been too much
influenced by her own desire to remain on fora
few weeks in England — a desire for which,
now that she came to reflect upon it, she could
discover no warrant at all.

I wish I had insisted upon going with her,"
she exclaimed aloud, at last, as a picture of the
deserted one pacing sadly along the Trouville
sands rose before her mental vision.

How could you, when she insisted upon
going without you ? " asked Claud, looking
down from the driving-seat of the mail-phaeton
which he was piloting, with more dash than
caution, through the back streets of Beach-borough.

" At all events," he added, " she is
off now, and we can't very well pursue her ; so
the best thing you can do is to try and enjoy
yourself. It would be most ungrateful to allow
poor Varna's feelings to be lacerated in this
distressing way for nothing — don't you see ?
Let us make an effort."

Genevieve smiled, conscious that it was only
by an effort that she was able to refrain from
enjoying herself already. Was not the mere
fact of being whirled through the summer air
at a speed of twelve miles an hour enough to
raise any one's spirits ? The pleasant, prosperous
English landscape, with its trim hedgerows,
its fields of wheat and barley bending
under the breeze, its bright green foregrounds
and hazy blue distances ; the chorus of birds
twittering in every tree and bush ; the cattle
standing up to their knees in shady pools ; the
fragrance of honeysuckle-wreaths in deep lanes
all these moved with a new and soft delight
the senses of a city-bred maiden ; and if she
did not fully share her brother's anticipations
of pleasure at the prospect of lawn-tennis in
Miss Flemyng's company, her cry of admiration
was not less genuine than his, when a turn of
the road brought them in sight of the old red
house in which that hospitable young lady's
childhood and youth had been passed.

What a lovely place ! " she exclaimed.
There can be nothing like that out of
England."

It is a beautiful old house," said Claud.
Picturesque, romantic-looking ; but quite
homely, all the same. The sort of house that
could only be inhabited by people of a certain
refinement. Just the sort of house which I
should have imagined Miss Flemyng living in."

Should you really ? " Genevieve said, her
enthusiasm cooling a little. " That only shows
what different impressions the same person
may make upon different people. I should
have connected her with a bright, white Italian
villa, full of mirrors and handsome furniture
and bric-a-brac."

Why ? " asked Claud, surprised.

And the only reply that Genevieve could
make was, " I don't know why ; but I should."

CHAPTER VIII.

AT THE Moaned HOUSE.

If the Moated House was specially adapted for
the honour of sheltering the Flemyng family,
it had waited many years and passed through
many hands before falling to its rightful tenants.
Lynshire, taken as a whole, is not a county
given to changes. We speak with a certain
contempt in our parts of those neighbourhoods
nearer London where properties are constantly
being let or sold, and are accustomed to boast
that from time immemorial there has been
a Croft at Croft Manor, a Knowles at Stone
Hall, a Pilkington at Somerley, and so on,
through a respectable list of country gentlemen,
great and small. But there are some
houses which, for no apparent reason, seem
destined to vicissitudes, and the Moated House
has been one of these. Tradition has it that,
from the day of its foundation, it has never seen
two generations of owners bearing the same

name ; and it is certain that, during the last
two hundred years (which should be about the
age of the house as it now stands), it has
harboured half a dozen different families, all of
whom have left their mark upon it in one way
or another, but have failed to take root within
its walls. It occupies the site of a fine old
feudal castle ; but nothing now remains to
recall this ancient structure, save a ruined keep,
and the dried-up moat which gives its name
to the present building ; while, as for the broad
lands that lay about it, they have dropped
gradually away, with the constant change of
proprietors, and are now only a memory. I
myself can just remember Mr. Flemyng's purchase
of the estate, which at that time had
shrunk to the house and the park, comprising
some forty acres of land in all. People said
he got the place cheap ; and so perhaps he
did, if value may be measured by an aesthetic
standard ; for the park, though small, boasts
of as fine elms and limes as are to be seen
anywhere in the country, and the old gabled
house itself is well placed upon a slight elevation,
the circle of its moat clearly defined around
it, and its rich red-brick wall, partly hidden by
ivy and climbing roses and jasmine, rising from
amidst a blaze of flowers.

VOL. I. o

These flowers are Mr. Flemyng's especial
hobby. Horticulture — so some people say — ■
is the only one of his numerous whims upon
which he has brought knowledge, as well as
self-confidence, to bear ; he has devoted infinite
pains, and also, probably, more money than he
could easily afford, to the gratifying of it ; and
the result has been an undeniable success. Old
Colonel Gervis, of Southlands, who rode the
same hobby upon a far more extensive and
expensive scale, always admitted, I believe,
that his garden was no match for his neighbour's.
The lay of the land was less favourable
to him. With greater space at command, he
could not produce the effect of the gorgeous
masses of colour which surrounded the Moated
House ; nor has Southlands any such turf to
show as that on which — the fulness of time
being come — a lawn-tennis court had now been
marked out, and which was unhappily beginning
to be worn bare in certain places by the feet
of the servers.

At the sound of carriage-wheels thundering
on the wooden bridge which spans the moat,
four little rough-headed boys came running out
from behind a clump of evergreens, and stopped
short, in various attitudes indicating distrust, on
finding themselves face to face with a strange

lady and gentleman. Claud, by way of opening
the acquaintance in a playful manner, shook
his whip at them ; whereupon the eldest, a
stolid urchin of ten or thereabouts, promptly
picked up a large clod of earth from one of the
adjacent flower-beds. He did not proceed to
launch this missile, but merely held it in his
hand in obvious readiness for possible emergencies,
while his younger brothers grouped
themselves behind him. Claud laughed, and
the phalanx of young gentlemen responded by
a unanimous frown. Relations between the
parties were showing symptoms of becoming a
trifle strained, when Miss Flemyng, looking
very pretty in a perfectly fitting costume of
white flannel, appeared upon the scene, and
dispersed the small fry with a backward sweep
of her sunshade.

Go away, all of you," she cried. " Go
quite away, and don't let yourselves be seen
again till tea-time. How very kind of you
to come, Miss Gervis ! This is not a formal
visit, is it ? You don't want to be received
in the drawing-room ? Then we will go and
sit under the cedar tree, and they can bring
us out tea presently. I asked some people
to make up a game of lawn-tennis this afternoon
; but they can't come. I am so sorry."

Don't be sorry on my account," said!
Genevieve. " I could not have played. I
have never even seen the game yet."

Oh, you would soon learn. All you have
to do is to hit the ball over the net, you know.
I would give you a lesson, if you liked ; only
perhaps you would find it rather too hot for a
single game. I don't know what it is to be too
hot myself."

Indeed she looked as if she could never be
over-heated, or flushed, or dishevelled. Genevieve,
scanning her with a Frenchwoman's eye
for details, noticed the absolute accuracy and
finish of her costume. From crown to sole
there was nothing wanting, nothing awry. Her
complexion, which was that of the fairest of
brunettes, had the clear glow of perfect health ;
her movements had the grace and freedom
which only constant exercise can bestow.
Genevieve remembered that Freddy Croft had
once described Miss Flemyng as looking like
a thoroughbred in tip-top condition, and she
was struck now with the aptness of the comparison,
which at the time had seemed to hera
trifle coarse, as applied to a lady.

The two girls seated themselves under a
spreading cedar-tree. There were wicker-chairs,
comfortably cushioned, waiting for them

there ; a hammock was slung between two
overruling boughs ; some newspapers and a
novel lay upon the grass. Looking out from
that deep, cool shade, the eye rested contentedly
upon brilliant masses of geraniums and
pecunia and zinnias, upon butterflies hovering
over them in the bright sunshine, and upon the
old red house, with its mantle of creepers,
beyond.

How lovely it all is ! " exclaimed Genevieve.
"You must be very happy, living in such a
beautiful place."

' It is well enough in summer," answered the
other ; " but even then it is not always fine
weather in this country, unfortunately. Still
there are worse places than this to lie down
and dream in on hot afternoons. I am glad
you like it ; because perhaps you will often be
tempted to come and see me now."

Evidently Miss Flemyng intended to be
very friendly. Genevieve exerted herself to
respond, wondering a little within herself, the
while, why it was that she should find responsiveness
an exertion.

Presently the youngest of the small boys who
had been so summarily dismissed a quarter of
an hour before came toddling across the lawn,
and planted himself in front of his sister, with

his blue eyes and his rosy mouth very wide open.
News of importance seemed to be struggling
vainly for utterance through his lips, and
heralded its advent by sundry abortive gasps.

"Well, Tommy," said Miss Flemyng, "what
is the matter now ? "

Oh, Nina, Jacky is such a naughty boy ! "

Well, my dear child, I can't help it. So are
you a naughty boy, as far as that goes. You
ought not to tell tales."

But, Nina, he's putting a side-saddle on one
of the cows, and he's going to ride her round
the orchard, he says."

I think I can trust the cow to put a stop to
that little plan."

But, Nina, he's got your new habit on, and
he's "

Wretched child ! why could you not have
told me that sooner ? Run off as fast as you
can, and tell Jack that, if he doesn't take that
habit off instantly and carry it up to my room,
he will be put to bed at six o'clock for a fortnight.
But of course he won't listen to you.
Miss Gervis, will you excuse me for a few
minutes ? I am afraid I must go and see after
these terrible children myself."

Shall I go ? " suggested Claud, rising from
the low chair in which he had been seated.

I will undertake to reduce your rebels to
order in a very few minutes, and it will be a
great pleasure to me to save you a walk in this
broiling sun."

Oh, would you ? How more than good of
you ! Some day I will do as much for you
perhaps. But you must be prepared for all
kinds of indignities. I warn you that these
children are known far and wide for their utter
want of manners and reverence."

I am not afraid," answered Claud, laughing.
Come along, Tommy, and show me the way."

Genevieve could not help noticing the change
that had taken place in Miss Flemyng's demeanour
and intonation during the above short
colloquy. Her manner had been friendly from
the first — now it was something more ; though
in what the change consisted it was not so easy
to specify. Upon more mature acquaintance
with her new friend, Genevieve learnt to look
for this undefinable transformation whenever
Miss Flemyng had occasion to speak to a man.
She discovered, in short, that the young lady
had one voice at the service of her own sex,
and another at that of the opposite. The
phenomenon is hardly a very remarkable one in
itself, nor can it be said to be in any way the
peculiar attribute of Miss Flemyng; but upon

the present occasion it was rendered somewhat
specially noticeable owing to the fact that, up to
the moment of Claud's good-natured offer, she
had not seen fit to address him at all. It is
possible that this neglect may not have been
wholly unintentional. It is possible, also — for
she was well versed in the manners and moods
of men — that Miss Flemyngmay have expected
the young fellow to be a little huffed by so
protracted a disregard of his presence. But if
she had formed any such anticipation, her prescience
was at fault. Claud was neither shy
nor vain, and his temperament disposed him
towards a quiet contemplation of all pleasing
objects. He had been perfectly contented to
sit in the shade, and watch his pretty hostess,
and would have been contented so to sit for
another half-hour or more, if circumstances had
not brought about an interruption. He admired
Miss Flemyng excessively. He was not in
love with her ; but perhaps he was going to be.
The possibility had just suggested itself to him
nothing more — and, so far as it had gone, the
sensation was a sufficiently agreeable one. It
stimulated interest without disturbing the mental
balance, and was as yet far too vague to demand
self-examination.
When, after a tolerably long interval, he returned

with the four little boys hanging about
different parts of his person, he found the two
ladies seated beside a low table, on which stood
a tea-tray and cups, and some dishes of piled-up
fruit. Miss Flemyng turned round with a laugh
and a shrug of her shoulders, as she looked
at his escort.

I told you how it would be," said she. " In
spite of my warnings, you have chosen to make
friends with those unprincipled children, and
now there will be no more peace for you in this
house."

But I like it," said Claud.

She shrugged her shoulders again. " Everyone
to his taste ! And what about my riding-habit,
if you please ? "

I am happy to be able to announce to you
that it is uninjured. An indignant young
woman, whom I presumed to be your maid,
was carrying it off triumphantly when I arrived
upon the scene. But Jack tells me that the
whole scheme would have had to be abandoned
in any case, owing, as you anticipated, to insuperable
objections on the part of the cow."

The boys had grouped themselves round
Genevieve now, and one of them had already
possessed himself of her parasol.

Are you, too, fond of children, Miss Gervis ? '

Nina inquired. And this time it was Claud
who detected that slight alteration of accent.

When they are good," answered Genevieve
judiciously.

Gen can always make them good," Claud
remarked. " It is her speciality."

He had picked up a tennis-racquet from the
grass, and was making cuts at imaginary balls.

Are you a great hand at this game ? " he
asked of his neighbour.

Well — I am middling. I can hold my own
with any woman I have ever met. What are
you like yourself ? "

Oh, I am bad. I never practise."

Then we will have a match for a pair of
gloves some day."

I wish you would have it now," said Genevieve.
" I should like so much to see you
play." And then, as Miss Flemyng hesitated
a little, " Please don't think of standing on
ceremony with me," she added ; " the children
will entertain me, if I want any other entertainment
than looking on."

Nina waited for no further persuasion. Perhaps
she felt that she had already done her best
to amuse her visitor, and could do little more,
so far as conversation went.

If Genevieve did not enjoy watching Miss

Flemyng playing lawn-tennis, it can only have
been because she lacked artistic education. No
eye trained to appreciate loveliness of line and
contour could have failed to derive supreme
satisfaction from the sight of that lissom figure
thrown by the return of the flying ball into a
hundred different postures, each a study for a
sculptor and all as natural as the movements of
a savage. Perhaps the fact that this young
female athlete had nothing rustic about her, but
was arrayed in accordance with the latest decrees
of fashion, may have added a charm to the
exhibition. Claud was enchanted ; — so much
so that he allowed his opponent to win the first
game with ridiculous ease. Then he began to
exert himself a little more. With his superiority
of reach and his knowledge of racquets, he
ought, he imagined, to have little difficulty in
winning the match, if so minded. Miss
Flemyng's play improved, however, in equal
measure with his own, and the second game
was added to her score. The next three went
the same way. Do what he would, Claud could
not put the ball away from his active little
adversary ; and the annoying part of it was.
that, whereas he was becoming very hot and
rather short of breath, she was taking it all as
coolly as you please, scarcely running at all,

and seeming to know by instinct where the
ball would pitch. At last, when she had scored
the final ace of the sixth game by a brilliant
back-handed half-volley, Claud threw down his
racquet with a gesture of despair.

That will do," he said. " I am not going
to make myself ridiculous any longer. And I
will not venture to play with you again till
I have taken some lessons. Why didn't you
tell me you were a professional ? If you would
at least confess that you are tired, it would
soothe my wounded vanity a little."

I am not a bit tired," answered Miss
Flemyng. " We will play the rubber out, if
you like."

Heaven forbid ! I don't in the least mind
admitting that I am tired ; and I want to sit in
the shade, and rest."

Well, perhaps it would be pleasant," said
Miss Flemyng. "What has become of your
sister ? "

She has gone off somewhere with the
children. I saw them leading her away captive
some time ago. You need not feel anxious
about her ; she is sure to be perfectly happy
with them."

Do you think so ? "

Nina was lying back, half in, half out of the

net hammock, one little foot swinging lazily
to and fro an inch or two above the ground.
She had placed her right hand under her head,
and was staring up at the spaces of blue sky
that showed between the cedar branches, while
with her left she lifted a cherry, every now and
again, and let it drop into her mouth. " I was
quite right about her," she remarked, after a
pause.

How ? "

I told you the other day, you know, that
probably she would not like me. And she
doesn't."

What makes you think that ? I am sure
you are wrong. Gen is not demonstrative ;
she takes a long time to make up her mind
about people "

11 She has made up her mind about me. And
it is a pity ; because I like her immensely.
She is my ideal of a woman. The kind of
woman whom I should adore, if I were a man.
She has a beautiful face, do you know. Not
beautiful in the way of features ; but one can
see that there is a soul behind it. I am convinced
that she has a soul ; and that is what
interests me. I myself have no soul at all. I
have a heart — more or less of one — but absolutely
no soul. I haven't really."

All this was said half absently, in brief
sentences, with a pause between each ; and the
general effect was rather that of a soliloquy
than of a tribute to conversation.

Claud said nothing. He was absorbed in
contemplation of the picture before him, and
for the moment it seemed a matter of no
importance at all whether the utterances that
fell from those perfect lips were nonsense or
not. Presently Nina resumed : —

The worst of making friends with women
is that one has to waste so much time over it.
Life is too short for all that preliminary humbug ;
and they won't let you off a syllable of it. Of
course, if one sees a prospect of friendship
beyond, one wades on with as good a grace as
one can ; but if one does not, it is best to give
the whole thing up ; don't you think so ? I am
afraid I shall have to give your sister up."

I hope you won't," said Claud.

Oh, I only mean in a certain sense. Now
with men, if they are at all decent sort of
people, there is no trouble of that kind. I
always feel that I can safely say to them, ' We
get on well together ; some day we shall probably
be friends. Suppose we skip the introductory
chapters, and assume that we have
known one another for years. Won't that save

both of us a great deal of unnecessary boredom
? ' "

And do they generally agree ? "

Nine out of ten of them do most cordially,
and begin telling me their secrets at
once. A man is always dying to talk about
himself."

And the tenth ? "

The tenth is generally an unbearable prig.
I do trust you don't say that because you intend
to be the exception yourself. "

I don't know," said Claud. " I am afraid I
have no secrets to tell."

Well, but you have ambitions, ideas, an
object in life — something."

Perhaps ; but all those things would not
interest you ? "

Of course they would interest me. They
are the very things that do interest me. Please
begin."

I would so very much rather hear you talk
about yourself."

I have been talking about myself, haven't I ?
I have been endeavouring to give you an insight
into my character."

But you have said nothing about your own
ambitions, and object in life, and so forth."

I have no ambitions that I know of, except

the ambition that everybody has to get hold of
money somehow or other. My chief object in
life is to get as much amusement out of it as I
can. Now are you satisfied ? "

Not at all," answered Claud. "If you will
pardon my saying so, I don't believe you have
described yourself quite truly."

I assure you I have. There is no use in
trying to represent oneself as better than one is,
because one is certain to be found out sooner or
later. I am good-natured, because I was born
so ; but I don't feel the smallest vocation to
benefit my species. I should never go out of
my way to do any good to anybody, and I
should certainly make myself very disagreeable
to anybody who interfered with my tastes."

Might one make so bold as to ask what
your tastes are ? "

Certainly. I like hunting, and I like
dancing, and I like plenty of new clothes ; and
there is another thing that I like better than
all ; only, if I call it by its true name, I shall
shock you."

Never mind. I should like to hear it
truthfully described."

Flirting, then. Now you are shocked. You
are more than shocked ; you are scandalized.
You are saying to yourself that I am a very
vulgar girl."

No one could by any possibility say that of
you, Miss Flemyng."

Ah, you are less truthful than I am, I see.
And the amusing thing is that there never lived
a woman yet, good or bad, who did not enjoy
flirting. Still, one ought not to set people's
nerves on edge by calling a spade a spade. I
knew I should shock you."

But really, Miss Flemyng, I am not so easily
shocked as you think."

And really, Mr. Gervis, I don't care a — a
cherry-stone whether you are shocked or not."

Claud laughed. " Do you know," said he, " I
suspect that if we go on talking in this way
much longer, Ave shall begin to fight."

Nina slid down from the hammock on to her
feet, stretched herself, yawned, and rubbed her
eyes with the backs of her hands ; and never
was an ungainly attitude assumed with more
exquisite grace.

I believe the sun has been getting into my
brains and making me silly," she remarked.
Or is it the effect of your company, do you
think ? Anyhow, we have got to know one
another better by my talking a little nonsense,
and the next time we meet, it will be your
turn. Here comes your sister, accompanied by
a dismounted cavalier, leading his horse."

VOL. I. P

And something in this spectacle apparently
tickled Miss Flemyng's sense of the ludicrous,
for her shoulders shook with silent laughter.

It is only Freddy Croft," said Claud, raising
himself upon his elbow, and following the
direction of her glance. " Why do you
laugh ? "

But Nina returned no answer; unless a
slight increase of merriment could be taken as
such. She had not yet recovered herself when
the approaching couple came within speaking
distance ; and Freddy's expressive features
immediately put on a sympathetic grin. He
had ridden over to Southlands, it appeared,
bearing a note of invitation, and, in consequence
of information received there, had
taken the Moated House on his way back.

I say, Gervis, you are all coming over to
stay with us next week," he announced. " We
must introduce your sister to the noble game
of cricket ; and Mr. Gervis will meet lots of
people who knew him before the flood."

The governor ! — is he coming too ? "
ejaculated Claud, looking rather taken aback.

I should just think he was. I saw him
over at your place just now, and I told him
there would be some other old boys for him to
walk about with and talk to, and that sort of

thing ; so he said that would do him down to
the ground. If only the weather holds up,
we'll have a regular jolly week. Miss Flemyng
is coming, of course."

Not unless she is asked," put in that young
lady quietly.

Asked ! Why, my mother asked you weeks
ago."

Did she ? I had forgotten all about it."

For some reason or other, Nina had suddenly
become grave and subdued. After this, she
addressed her conversation exclusively to
Genevieve, and bade Claud good-bye, when
the time came, in an absent, perfunctory
manner, as if she were hardly aware of his
existence.

He thought a good deal about her on the
way home ; but did not communicate the subject
of his thoughts to his sister. He was
fascinated and a little puzzled, but upon the
whole not quite so well pleased as he had
expected to be. Perhaps, after all, there was,
as she herself had hinted, a tinge of vulgarity
in her affectation of excessive plain-speaking;
and, all things considered, the only decided
sentiment with regard to Miss Flemyng that
he could as yet find in his heart was a profound
admiration for her physical charms. So much
the better for his peace of mind, thought he.

CHAPTER IX.

AT CROFT MANOR.

Croft Manor has ever borne a social character
singularly out of keeping with the solid, stolid
respectability of its exterior. To look at the
house standing, huge, square and uncompromising,
in the midst of its wide park,
without a flower-bed near it, and with the
extensive stabling of the establishment unconcealed
by any screen of trees or shrubs, you
would have set it down as the home of a line
of wealthy squires addicted, probably, to farming
and field sports, attending church regularly
on Sunday mornings and going to bed every
night at half-past ten. But in truth Croft has
never owned any such worthy lords as these.
Its masters have been for the most part a
fostering lot of rakes " and spendthrifts, with
here and there, if report speaks truly, a rogue
among them.

Not to qt so far back as the brawling, dicing
baronets of the last century, it is within my
own recollection that people used to shake their
heads when Sir Montagu Croft's name was
mentioned, and that there were doings at the
Manor, in his time, which Hicks, my grandmother's
butler, used to speak of with suppressed
glee as " the douce's own delight," but
as to the precise nature of which he declined
to satisfy my youthful curiosity. Later in life,
when my interest in this awful and wicked
personage was no longer so keen, I of course
heard all about him. He seems to have had
a fine capacity for every form of vice, with a
preference for those which entail the largest
expenditure of cash ; and no doubt he would
have gone straight to the dogs, dragging his
property after him, had he not very considerately
broken his neck one day shortly
after the birth of his heir. But for this
accident our friend Freddy would hardly have
found himself in his present comfortable circumstances
when, after a long minority, he
entered upon his inheritance.

Since that day the Manor, which had been
closed for many years, and for many more inhabited
chiefly by Lady Croft's sober old friends,
has, it must be confessed, regained something

of its former notoriety. It has once more
come to be known as a " fast " house, though
with the modified signification attached to that
word in these more healthy times. A man may
stay there nowadays without fear of being expected
to dispose of three bottles of port at
a sitting, or to stake all his worldly goods
upon a cast of the dice ; but, on the other hand,
he must be prepared to swallow more champagne
and brandy-and-soda than he wants ;
he must not object to play poker or Napoleon
half the night through, nor must he be surprised
if he is dragged out of bed in the small
hours of the morning and forcibly tossed ina
blanket by half-a-dozen of his light-hearted
companions. Those who do not find these
pastimes attractive are best away from Croft
Manor ; and that there are a good many such
persons is sufficiently evidenced by the fact
that its rooms are rarely tenanted, save by
members of a certain set. Quiet, nervous and
irritable men, give the place a wide berth ;
and those who, for the sake of their outstanding
friendship with Lady Croft, consent
to visit her occasionally, as of old, usually
find some excuse for cutting their stay short
thereby greatly surprising their genial host,
who cannot at all understand why they should

be in such a hurry to be off, when he and his
friends have taken so much trouble to make
the house lively and agreeable for them.

To do Freddy justice, it is not in his nature
to willingly hurt or offend anybody; and if
he were left to himself, his pranks would be
reserved for his own intimates. It was not
he who put a couple of live frogs into poor
Miss Pennefather's boots ; it was not he who
took advantage of the drowsiness which sometimes
affects a gentleman who shall be nameless
to brutally singe that gentleman's hair and
beard ; nor was it he, again, who, when the
Croft fire-engine was beinor exhibited to the
lord-lieutenant of the county, caused the hose
to be pointed full at that venerable nobleman's
upturned face — an offence, by the way,
which his lordship has never pardoned, and
never will pardon. He got the credit of these
and numberless other escapades of which the
talented originator was Lord Lynchester; and
the truth is that when that ornament to the
peerage enters a house, the sooner all decent
people escape from it the better for them.
I speak without bitterness of feeling, and I
am not, I hope, vindictive ; but if ever one of
Lord Lynchester's merry jests should prove
the means of brincnno- him within reach of the

arm of the law, I know who will be there to
have a look at him in the dock.

He is not, I believe, very fond of staying
in other people's houses, and Croft Manor,
as a general thing, sees him only once a year ;
but on that occasion — during the week, namely,
which of late years has been devoted to the
decision of a series of county cricket-matches
on Freddy's ground — he seldom fails to keep
his engagement ; for he has an erroneous
notion that he can play the game.

Our friends from Southlands arrived on the
evening of the day for which they had been
invited, and entered the drawing-room, before
dinner, simultaneously with Lord Lynchester,
who had been cricketing all day, and having
failed to score in his first innings, was in an
exceedingly bad temper. Lady Croft, who
had not yet had an opportunity of shaking
hands with her son's guest, and who was
mortally afraid of the man, rose to welcome
him with her nervous company smile.

So glad you were able to come. So sorry
Lady Lynchester could not come with you.
Where is she now ? "

Haven't the ghost of an idea," answered
his lordship curtly, and whisking round, presented
his hostess with a fine view of his

back. He stood, with his hands in his pockets,
swaying slowly from his heels to his toes, and
surveying the assembled company with a steady
frown. He was a tall, thin man, with a small
head well set on his shoulders, black hair
turning grey at the temples and a slight waxed
moustache. It was a handsome face, but an
eminently disagreeable one, and no one could
wonder that Lady Lynchester should flee from
before it whenever she got the chance.

There were some thirty people sitting and
standing in different parts of the long room, of
whom it was easy to see that at least two-thirds
had been invited by the master of the house,
and the remainder by his mother. The latter,
a dignified little coterie of grey-headed ladies
and gentlemen, were gathered together in the
neighbourhood of Lady Croft's armchair, which
from long-established custom stood at all seasons
close to the fireside, while the younger and
livelier guests were assembled near the distant
bay-window in which Miss Crofts tall figure
was a prominent object. The two divisions
appeared to have formed themselves instinctively
into separate camps, as if in mute protest
against the possibility of crabbed age and youth
dwelling together. Midway in the intervening
space sat Nina Flemyng, stroking the head

of a shaggy deerhound, and conversing in an
undertone with a six-foot admirer, who was
bending uncomfortably over her. There were
only eight ladies present, all told.

Genevieve took note of these and other
details from the corner in which she had
modestly established herself, while her father
was listening to Lady Croft's plaintive murmuring
with that odd, unfathomable air of his,
in which courtesy, deference and weariness all
had a part, and which sometimes gave him a
fugitive resemblance to the late Emperor of the
French. She was wondering where Freddy
could have concealed himself when the subject
of her speculations bustled in, his face red and
shining from the combined effects of sun and
cold water, his smoothly-brushed hair still damp,
and his fingers struggling with a refractory
sleeve-link, which had evidently been thrust
into its place on his way downstairs. Freddy
has often been heard to boast that he can dress
for dinner in a trifle under the five minutes.
A hasty glance round the room revealed to
him Genevieve's whereabouts, and she was immediately
saluted by one of those numbing
grips of the hand which are the Englishman's
equivalent for a whole page of fine phrases.

Well, Miss Gervis, so you've found your

way here all right, eh ? Hideous old shop,
ain't it ? But there's plenty of room in it, that's
one thing, and it grows upon you, I think. I
hope you'll find it do so. I say, where's my
friend Miss Potts ? "

She was not invited," answered Genevieve,
smiling.

"Bless me! How awfully stupid! I'll tell
my mother to write a line to-night, and ask her
to come over tomorrow."

Oh, no, you must not do that," Genevieve
said. " She would not care to come, and perhaps
— " Here she glanced for a moment at
Mr. Gervis, and left her sentence unfinished.
But it is very kind of you to have thought of
her," she resumed, " and she will be pleased
when I tell her."

Why kind ? I wanted to see her," Freddy
said simply. " Miss Potts and I always got on
together first-rate. We will talk it over afterwards.
I must go and look after some of these
people now ; I'm afraid I'm awfully late."

Freddy hurried away to attend to his duties
as host, and soon returned, bringing with him
a stout, middle-aged gentleman, whom he introduced
to Genevieve as Colonel Finch, remarking
at the same time, in a perfectly audible
aside, that he was a cheery old chap, who would

keep her amused all through dinner, and talk
nineteen to the dozen.

I will do my best to deserve my character,
Miss Gervis," Colonel" 5 Finch remarked, not at
all disconcerted, as he led his partner towards
the dining-room, and indeed Genevieve found
him a sufficiently entertaining neighbour.

This is the first time you have stayed here,
I suppose," he began. " Yes. Queer house —
very queer house — yes. The kindest-hearted
people that ever breathed ; let you do exactly
as you like, and do anything for you ; but noisy,
uncommonly noisy. Bear-fighting, you know,
and practical jokes, and all that sort of thing —
yes. Know Miss Croft at all ? Hem ! Last
time I was here, she came into the smoking-room,
with a big cigar in her mouth, after the
others had gone to bed, sat up till morning,
playing loo with some of the young fellows,
and finished up by backing herself to jump
over a chair standing. Did it too. You don't
smoke, eh ? Glad to hear it. Between you and
me, I think ladies are a little bit out of place ina
smoking-room — what ? I'm getting old, you
see — too old for this house. Fact is, I shouldn't
have come here at all, if I had known I was
going to meet Lynchester. Nasty-tempered
fellow, that. Doesn't mind how far he goes

with other people, and won't stand much retaliation.
Chances are they will have some
deuced unpleasant row with him one of these
days — yes. Oh, he looks quiet enough now ;
but that's because he is sitting between two
old ladies, and he's in the sulks too, they
tell me. Later in the evening, you'll see — or
rather, I hope you won't see. Dare say you'll
hear, though — what ? "

The worthy colonel continued in this strain,
without intermission, ab novo usque ad mala,
saving Genevieve all trouble in the way of
searching for subjects of conversation, and
giving her a good deal of information as to
the characters and habits of the neighbourhood
in short, disjointed sentences, each of which
was punctuated by a muttered " Yes " or a
What ? " He was fond of talking, and his
hearer had a preference for listening ; so that
they suited each other as well as Jack Sprat
and his wife are said to have done, and parted
with mutual regret when Lady Croft gave the
signal for the ladies to move.

Genevieve, for her part, longed to have her
loquacious old friend back when she found
herself in the drawing-room, seated beside an
equally talkative, but infinitely less agreeable
lady, who cross-questioned her as to the history

of her past life, and asked her point-blank why
her father and his wife lived apart. But this
martyrdom, which Genevieve, in her ignorance
of British customs, had feared might be prolonged
for hours, did not last quite twenty
minutes ; at the expiration of which time the
appearance of a few black coats in the doorway
brou sf ht release to more than one sufferer. It
was only a small body of men who showed
themselves. The remainder, it appeared, were
getting up a pool in the billiard-room, whither
some of the ladies, among whom were Miss
Croft and Nina Flemyng, presently went down
to join them.

Almost immediately afterwards, Genevieve
was startled by a slight movement behind her,
and turning round, discovered Freddy standing
grinning at her elbow.

Don't be alarmed," said he ; " it's only me.
I just waited to see half of those people downstairs
started at a round game and the other
half at pool, and then I nipped off, and came in
through that door at the other end of the room.
Now we have got rid of the lot of them, thank
goodness ! and we'll have some music, if you
don't mind, by-and-by. You haven't been so
cruel as to leave the violin behind you, as well
as Miss Potts, I hope."

Oh, but indeed I have," answered Genevieve.
" Most likely your friends would have
thought me very cruel if I had brought it."

Freddy groaned. "Well, really this is too
bad ! Do you know, I have been looking
forward to this moment ever since I got up
this morning, and all day long I have been
wondering how I should manage to get you
up here away from those fellows, and whether
perhaps you wouldn't want to play pool, or
something ; and now that I've worked it all
so beautifully "

You find that you are reduced to having to
talk to me, instead of hearing me play the
violin. I am very sorry. Can't you go downstairs
again ? "

Now, Miss Gervis, you know I didn't mean
that," exclaimed Freddy, calling up into his
blue eyes an expression intended to convey
mild reproach and a great many other things
less easily indicated. " You know there is
nothing in all the world that I would rather
do than talk to you."

This was our young friend's method of paying
his addresses. Like everything else that
he put his hand to, he did it thoroughly.
/'Only, you see," he went on, after a pause,
I always think of you with your violin, somehow

: it seems like a part of you. I'll tell you
what I'll do ; I'll send a trap over to South-lands
tomorrow morning, and it shall bring-back
Miss Potts and the violin together."

Genevieve did not answer for a moment.
When she did, there was a certain soft vibration
in her voice which Freddy had never detected
there before.

Thank you very much indeed," she said ;
'but I am afraid Miss Potts could not come.
I should have to ask permission for her ; and
I — I would rather not do that. But you have
no idea how pleased she will be when she hears
that you wanted her. It is so very seldom
that any one shows her the smallest attention ;
though there are plenty of people who make
use of her when it suits them. I don't think
I ever met any one so kind as you are."

Freddy stared in sheer amazement, while his
heart — which, to be sure, was a very soft one
• — became filled with a sort of indignant pity.
All this gratitude for a simple piece of careless
good nature ! What could the poor girl's life
have been ? Among what monsters of selfishness
could she have lived, that she should be so
touched by such a trifle ? He looked across the
room at Mr. Gervis, who w r as reclining placidly
in an armchair beside a hook-nosed dowager,

with a strong desire to seize that frail, delicate-looking
old gentleman by the shoulders and
ask him what the devil he meant by it. He
did not understand — how should he, when the
girl hardly suspected as much herself ? — that
her training had taught her to look for a motive
beneath every apparent act of kindness ; nor
had he discovered that her temperament was of
that rather morbid description which submits
more willingly to actual ill-treatment than to
indifferent toleration, and is apt to be more
moved by some chance evidence of disinterestedness
than by years of steady, matter-of-course
affection. Remembering, after a little
further cogitation, what a real good fellow
Claud was — all Freddy's friends and the greater
part of his acquaintances were real good fellows
and that the father, likewise, was a civil-spoken
old party, he came to the conclusion
that Miss Gervis's sensibility could hardly,
after all, be attributable to unhappiness at
home, and must probably arise out of an exaggerated
tenderness for the absent Potts.
Case of love me, love my dog," he thought ;
and straightway there arose in his imagination
a vision of Miss Potts spending her declining
years in peace and plenty at Croft Manor,
treated as an old and valued friend by the lord

VOL. I. Q

thereof and his wife, and adored by their
children, whom of course she would spoil
abominably. It will be perceived that, in this
instance at any rate, Freddy's love was not of
that heedless kind which revels only in the joy
of the passing moment, and takes no thought of
eventualities.

At the same time, he did not flatter himself
that the prize would be his whenever he pleased,
and for the mere asking. He was a modest
little fellow enough, and believing Genevieve to
be immeasurably his superior, was prepared
to give proof of infinite patience and devotion
before he could hope that his love might be in
any degree returned. And yet it is probable
that he would have been the least bit in the
world mortified if he could have read Miss
Gervis's heart when he wished her good-night,
after a tete-astute of nearly two hours, and
could have seen how little suspicion there was
there of the tender sentiments which were agitating
his own. Once, indeed, when Varna's
anxious suspicions had suggested that the young
Englishman might have fallen in love with
her, the notion, absurd as it was, had caused
Genevieve a momentary vague tremor, in which,
if she had analysed it, she would have found
that gratification had some small part ; but this

had been nothing more than a passing emotion,
forgotten almost as soon as felt, and
now she would have laughed at the idea that
Freddy was less heart-whole than herself. In
point of fact, she, like most other young women,
had a masculine ideal, whose lot, in some faraway,
misty future, might, if the fates were
propitious, come to be linked with hers — a
transcendant individual, towering mentally and
corporeally far above the common herd — a poet
possibly, or a musician, or an artist — a man to
whose terrestrial wants it would be the privilege
of love to minister — a man, in short, utterly
unlike anybody whom she had as yet encountered,
and certainly most unlike this merry
little grown-up schoolboy of an English baronet.
All this did not prevent her, however, from
thinking very kindly of Freddy after she had
reached her bedroom and was passing the
events of the day in mental review. His
honesty, his blunt directness of speech and the
natural readiness with which all his thoughts
rose to his lips, had an especial charm for her,
whose youth had been passed in an atmosphere
of artificiality, and whose nearest relations,
being all in a false position with regard to one
another, could seldom say what they thought,
nor always think what they said. Here, in

England, one seemed to breathe a purer air.
There was less refinement, perhaps, but more
humanity and more truth. The very freaks of
this disorderly household, over which Colonel
Finch had shaken .his head, were in a manner
creditable to their perpetrators ; for surely men
who could find amusement in behaving like
mischievous children could have nothing very
heavy upon their consciences ; and was not a
rough young Englishman, even if a trifle too
much given to horse-play, a more wholesome
and hopeful object to look upon than one of
those pale Parisians who have no boyhood, and
who learn to sneer at life before they have well
entered upon it ?

Genevieve, in a word, felt, for some reason or
other unusually light-hearted, and was disposed
to view all her present surroundings through
rose-coloured spectacles. Even when, some
hours later, she was roused from her sleep by the
sound of flying footsteps in the corridor outside,
followed by a heavy fall, shrieks, shouts of
laughter, and cries of " Sit on his head ! " "Give
it him, Miss Croft!" — even then she felt no
animosity against the nocturnal revellers who
had disturbed her rest, and only congratulated
herself upon having taken the precaution of
locking 1 her door before getting into bed.

In the same charitable frame of mind she
went down, the next morning, to the breakfast-room,
where she found a large gathering
already assembled. There were no obsequious
servants in the room, as there would have been
in a French chateau under similar circumstances
; each guest apparently looked after
himself, some seated at the table, some standing
by a sideboard, on which were hams and pies
and sundry small decanters ; there was a ceaseless
clatter of plates and a confused hubbub of
voices. Every one — not even excepting Lord
Lynchester, who had already arrayed himself in
white flannel trousers and a striped coat of
many colours — seemed to be in the highest
of spirits ; and, to judge by the rapidity with
which the young men were disposing of the
viands before them, the late hours of the
previous night had affected no one's appetite.
One of these youths exhibited a fine black eye ;
upon which subject a never-ending stream of
facetious questions and remarks was being
poured upon him from different quarters of the
room. " Been playing cricket already this
morning, Jones, and trying to catch the ball in
your mouth, eh ? " — " I say, Jones, you must
get somebody to paint that eye of yours before
you can show out of doors, you know. Perhaps

the person who coloured it for you would
be so kind." — " What a quarrelsome fellow you
must be, Jones. I'll swear you hadn't a black
eye when you left the billiard-room last night."
" How did you manage it, Jones ? Perhaps
Miss Croft saw the accident happen ; she went
up at the same time as you did." And after
each of these brilliant sallies arose a prolonged
outburst of hilarity, while through it all Miss
Croft, tall, fresh-coloured and rather hard-featured,
her well-developed figure showing to
advantage in a dress fitting like a glove, sat
eating her breakfast in demure imperturbability,
but with a lurking triumph in the side-glances
with which, every now and again, she favoured
the discomfited Jones. Genevieve understood
but a small part of the by-play and the allusions,
and was a little bewildered by the uproar ; but
there was something catching in this general
exuberance and novel in the total freedom from
restraint. Colonel Finch put her impressions
into the vernacular when he remarked, in his
semi-confidential way : —

Free-and-easy lot, Miss Gervis ; free-and-easy
— yes. No starch, you know, no starch —
what ? "

Down at the cricket-ground, later, it was
much the same scene over again. In the large

tent, from which Freddy's guests were supposed
to be watching the fortunes of the Croft Manor
eleven, a table was spread, piled up with fruit
and cakes and other more substantial refreshments
; the champagne and claret-cup were
consumed as fast as half a dozen servants could
supply the glasses ; there seemed to be no
break in the eating and drinking. By-and-by
carriages began to drive up over the grass,
bringing spectators from the several houses of
the neighbourhood — thirsty souls all of them ;
for indeed it was a blazing summer's day, and
there was scarcely breeze enough to stir the
leaves of the old elms that formed a pleasant
dark background to the smoothly-shaven
cricket-field, with its players, in their white
flannels, dotted here and there.

Freddy, standing behind Genevieve's chair,
endeavoured to enlighten her as to the mysteries
of the game, and confided to her some of his
troubles as captain of the county eleven, relating
how, by dint of unwearied exertions, he had
brought Lynshire back to its old place among
the cricketing counties, how he had organized
this annual week as one means of securing a
supply of fresh blood, how impossible it was to
select a man without mortally offending a dozen
others, how he had to bear the blame of every

defeat and got small credit for any victory, and
how he had often been more than half inclined
to throw the whole thing up, by George !

Meanwhile the Croft Manor score was
mounting steadily, and the champagne was
doing its work among the lookers-on. Every
hit was rewarded by loud applause from the
tent ; and the comments which, from time to
time, reached Genevieve's ears testified to the
general good humour. Never was better
cricket ; never was such glorious weather ; never
was such a perfect ground. And so the day
went merrily on, and morning passed into
afternoon.

Only one incident occurred to mar the
universal harmony. Lord Lynchester, having
unfortunately returned his first ball into the
hands of the bowler, came striding back to the
tent in undisguised dudgeon, threw down his
bat, and characterizing the entire proceedings
as "utter skittles," declared his intention of
hooking it out of this forthwith. Perhaps no
one was very deeply distressed by this announcement,
except Freddy, whose consternation
was so evidently heartfelt that Genevieve
felt quite sorry for him.

Oh, I say, hang it all, Lyn ! " he exclaimed ;
you don't mean that surely. It would be too

bad to go off just as everything is getting into
swing. Better luck next time, you know.
There are three more matches to come on."

But Lord Lynch ester was inexorable. He
didn't care twopence whether he scored or not,
he said ; but playing cricket with such a lot of
duffers was rot, and he was going to catch the
three o'clock train for Brighton. He marched off
accordingly, without going through the formality
of saying good-bye to anybody.

Freddy stood reflectively rubbing his nose
for a minute or two, and then turned to Claud
Gervis, who was sitting on a bench by himself,
watching the cricket with a rather melancholy
and preoccupied air.

Now, old man," said he, " here's your
chance. Take Lynchester's place in the field
to-day, and I'll promise you an innings tomorrow.
We shall play the match out."

"My dear fellow," said Claud, "I haven't
had a bat in my hand six times since I left
school, and I was a regular muff, you know,
even then. Oh no ; I shall want a great deal
of private instruction before you see me playing
in public."

Good gracious ! you don't call this playing
in public, do you ? Everybody plays here ;.
it's only for the fun of the thing. I'll bet you

know more about the game than lots of these
chaps who think they ought to be playing for
the county ; and besides, I want to see what
you can do. Who knows but we may make
a player out of you ? Haven't got any
flannels ? Oh, if that's all, I'll undertake to
rig you out in something. Come up to the
house, and we'll soon arrange that little difficulty."


Claud resisted a little longer, for form's sake ;
but he allowed himself to be persuaded without
much additional pressure, being indeed only
too eager to accept this, or any other means
offered to him of occupying himself, and getting
through the time which had begun to hang
rather heavily upon his hands. The truth is
that our hero was not enjoying himself at all.
Thrown among a number of young men of his
own age, all of whom were strangers to him,
while all were upon the most intimate terms
with one another, he had been made to feel
rather uncomfortably his position as an outsider.
The years that had elapsed since his
school days, and which he had employed in
making himself acquainted with the cities and
manners of many nations, had opened a chasm
between him and the young fellows of his own
standing, who, during the same time, had been

tranquilly pursuing the ordinary course of an
English gentleman's training. He felt himself
older than they, and was conscious of his
inability to take up the thread of his companionship
with them where he had dropped it.
He could not at once fall in with their ways of
thought and tricks of speech, nor had the
obstreperous gaiety of the previous night recommended
itself to him by any means as
favourably as it had done to his sister. The
ceaseless practical jokes had failed to amuse
him ; the readiness and vulgarity of the whole
business had bored and disgusted him, and of
Miss Croft with her loud voice and her masculine
ways, he had conceived a holy horror.
Moreover, Miss Flemyng had seen fit to bear
herself towards him in a singular and inexplicable
manner. A nod and a smile from the
other side of the dinner-table, and a few polite,
but meaningless commonplaces addressed to
him, at intervals, during the game of pool
which had occupied the best part of the evening,
had been all that he had been able to
obtain by way of recognition from that capricious
young lady. Not a word of that friendship
which had been inaugurated in so off-hand
a manner only a few days before ; not a hint at
the renewal of those pleasant confidences

o

which had been besoin under the cedar-tree.
The Nina of the Moated House, in truth, was
an altogether different person from the Miss
Flemyng of Croft Manor, who, though perfectly
at her ease and at home with those about her,
seemed determined to make them understand
that, whatever others might do, she at least had
no intention of abrogating the rights of her
sex and station, or of permitting the jocular
familiarities encouraged by her friend Miss
Croft. All this was quite as it should be, and
one could understand that some reserve of
attitude might be requisite in so irreverent a
household ; but it was quite another thing to
hold sincerely respectful and admiring friends
at a distance, while allowing, and apparently
enjoying, the ponderous and inane attentions
of a long-legged dragoon from Lynchester
barracks. Claud, not being in love, could not,
of course, feel jealous ; but he was puzzled and
piqued ; he did not see what he had done to
merit such treatment ; and he would have requested
an explanation of it, if the perpetual
presence of the aforesaid long-legged dragoon
had not defeated all his attempts to obtain a
private audience. A fragment of a dialogue,
overheard in the tent, through the buzz of
voices and the popping of champagne-corks —

ill-natured, like the generality of dialogues
wherein women's names are brought forward
between men — had not served to dissipate his
growing bad humour.

Oh, Flemyng, eh ? Daughter of the man
with the long white hair, who makes such a
preposterous fool of himself on the bench sometimes
? "

Yes. Pretty girl, uncommonly pretty ; buta
deuce of a flirt — yes. Quiet here — devilish
quiet and demure, and all that — has her reasons,
you know, her reasons — what ? Old lady
wanted to marry her to Croft last year ; took
a deal of trouble about it — yes. No money,
you know ; but looks and manners. Might do
worse. Ballet girl, or something of that kind,
you know — what ? Always in a funk of some
catastrophe happening, poor old thing ! — yes.
Nothing came of it, however."

Croft wouldn't come up to the scratch,
eh?"

"Well, some people said she wouldn't have
him — thought he was a little too fond of ladies
in general, or something. But between ourselves,
it isn't often the girl who throws the
man over in these cases — ha, ha, ha ! — what ?
She hasn't broken her heart. Pick up somebody
else, I dare say. Sharp girl, though —

keeps in with the Crofts. Useful people, you
know — take you up to London for the season,
and buy you a new frock every now and then —
yes. Have another glass of that champagne.
It's all right ; looked at the corks before I
committed myself. Old soldier, you know —
what?"

Careless shafts of calumny, shot at random,
do not, fortunately, always hit the traduced
person ; but on the other hand, it is to be
regretted that they should so often wound or
craze others in the course of their flight. Nina
continued to smile upon her dragoon in blissful
unconsciousness of the shocking things that
were being said about her, and it was Claud
who retired to a bench at the extreme end of
the tent, and there sat him down alone in profound
disgust with the human race at large. I
don't know whether king David was the first
person to exclaim that all men are liars ; but he
is the only one that ever I heard of who qualified
his ejaculation as a hasty one. Who expects to
hear — alas ! who can flatter himself that he
always tells — the truth about his neighbours ?
We are all of us in the hands of our friends,
and, Heaven be praised ! we seldom know what
they say of us. And in nine cases out of ten
it does not in the least signify. But Claud,

who was young, and as yet only partially
resigned to the ways of the best of possible
worlds, was foolish enough to think that it
signified a good deal ; and what with indignation
against poor Colonel Finch, fear lest the
old fellow's words might be true, and annoyance
that he should feel such fear, he was worrying
himself absurdly over matters with which he
had no concern when Freddy's well-timed
proposition came to release him from these
unprofitable musings.

Next to hard work, hard play is the best of
antidotes for mental anxiety ; and before Claud
had been a quarter of an hour in the field, he
had forgotten all about Miss Flemyng. His
extreme eagerness to prove to his neighbours
that he was not, as most of them seemed to
imagine, three parts a foreigner, but as good an
Englishman as any of them, kept his whole
attention concentrated upon the game, and he
was so far successful as to be rewarded with
several cries of " Well fielded ! " And then,
towards the close of the day, he had the great
good fortune to make a sensational catch — one
of those catches which, for being wholly unexpected
and unpremeditated, do not the less
cover a man with glory. He himself said
afterwards that he had made a wild leap into

the air, stretching out his left hand with a sort
of forlorn hope of stopping the ball, which had
somehow stuck in his finders ; and this was
probably a sufficiently accurate statement of the
facts ; but at the moment he would hardly have
given so modest an account of himself; and
indeed the prolonged applause which greeted
him from all sides of the field was enough to
justify him in feeling that he had accomplished
a great and wonderful feat. This was very
delightful ; but Fortune had yet other favours
in store for him.

The Croft Manor eleven been their second
innings with an hour of play before them ; and
when the stumps were drawn, Claud, who
had been sent in third, carried out his bat
triumphantly, having managed to put together
a score of no less than fourteen, comprising
two threes and a four. Perhaps these hits
were rather the result of audacity than of skill ;
but that did not prevent the gallery from good-naturedly
according a warm reception to the
stranger, as he walked in ; and when Claud saw
Nina Flemyng clapping enthusiastically, to the
imminent peril of a pair of eight-buttoned
gloves, while the dragoon, who was not a
cricketer, stood pulling his moustache in the
background, he began to think that he had

been a little too hard upon poor humanity
earlier in the day.

Genevieve was not present to assist at her
brothers triumph. Shortly after luncheon,
Lady Croft, who knew nothing, and cared
less, about cricket, and in her heart cordially
detested these yearly gatherings, with their
accompanying noise and racket, had made her
way timorously into the tent, as into a den of
thieves, and had begged Miss Gervis to come
out for a drive with her.

I want you to do us all a great kindness''
she explained, as soon as she was safely away
from the dangerous neighbourhood of the
cricket-ball, and could breathe more freely.
My son tells me you are a wonderful violinist
so charming ! I never heard of a lady playing
a violin before, except Madame What's-herne
; and she, of course, is a professional —
and will you drive over to Southlands with
me, and fetch your instrument ? It seems a
great shame to take you away from all the
other young people ; but your papa said you
were not very devoted to cricket ; and if it
is not asking too much of you "

Genevieve could only say that she would
be very happy to oblige her hostess.

Oh, thank you." Lady Croft always spoke

VOL. I. R

in italics, and with a certain plaintive intonation
which seemed to imply that she was quite
unable to cope with the troubles of this life,
but was really doing the best she could.
There was another thing," she continued
hesitatingly. " My son was very anxious that
I should ask your — your friend, Miss Peters —
Potter—"

Potts," said Genevieve.

Potts — thank you — that I should ask her
to spend a few days with us ; and I did speak
to Mr. Gervis about it ; but he said he thought
it would be better not."

Oh yes ; I knew he would object," observed
Genevieve quietly. " I am very sorry anything
was said about it."

Lady Croft made a little deprecating gesture.
But, my dear, I think, you know, your papa
was right. Of course I should have been only
too glad, I'm sure ; but you see one does not

generally invite that sort of That is, you

understand "

I quite understand," Genevieve said.

And so she and Lady Croft drove off to
Southlands ; and on their return the violin had
the back-seat of the carriage to itself.

I have never performed upon any musical
instrument myself — except, during a brief period

of my youth, upon the cornopean, which I
was getting on with quite nicely, and used to
practice every day in the retirement of my
bedroom, until a deputation of my nearest
relatives waited upon me, with tears in their
eyes, to implore me to desist — with this exception,
I say, I have no personal experience of
the joy of producing divine sounds ; but I
think I can in some degree realize the ecstasy
of a finished musician in his art. I can fancy
that to look down from a platform upon an
audience made up of all sorts of human specimens,
clever and dull, refined and vulgar, happy
and unhappy — and to possess the conscious
power of not only pleasing the ears of everyone
of them, but of touching the higher part
of their nature, and lifting them for the time
being to its level — I can fancy that this might
be a position which one would not change
for any that the world can offer. Or do you
think the consummate masters of a most difficult
art are too much absorbed by technicalities,
too keenly alive to the necessity of correctness
of execution, to share in their hearers' delight,
and that what seems as easy and spontaneous
as the song of a bird is really the result of
an unremitting attention to prosaic details ?
I remember once hearing Mr. Flemyng put

the latter query to a circle of patient listeners.
This train of thought," says he, with that
air of a benevolent and patronizing lecturer
which becomes him so well, " leads us back to
the old question, what is genius ? — which we
have all heard defined, over and over again, asa
capacity for taking infinite pains. Now genius
is obviously of two kinds, the creative and
the executive ; and these two are not necessarily
allied to the separate branches of art to which
they should seem of nature to belong ; so that
you will find painters and sculptors, for instance,
whose conceptions are less lofty than
their carrying out of them ; and musicians,
again, who confer a meaning entirely their
own upon the work of other men. The genius
■ — I say advisedly genius — of our young friend
Miss Gervis" (here Miss Gervis receives a
flattering bow) " is distinctly of the creative
order; and she will perhaps pardon me if
1 remind her that the bestowal upon it of
infinite pains is essential to bring it to its
highest development."

The truth is that Genevieve's were anything
but painstaking performances. They were
striking, impassioned, full of significance ; but,
no doubt, often incorrect, and influenced, I
should imagine, by no set of rules whatsoever.

Her violin was her tongue. Through its
medium she poured forth the secrets of a
reserved nature — the delight, the sadness, the
wide sympathies which with her could never
have found expression in speech ; and whatever
may be the experience of more skilful artists,
it was evident that in her case execution was
an unmixed happiness. This was doubtless
the reason why she invariably carried her
audience away with her. The guests at Croft
Manor were assuredly as unimpressionable a
set of commonplace folks as you would be
likely to find in any English country-house
during the cricketing season ; moreover, at the
time when Miss Gervis, at Lady Croft's request,
took her violin out of its case, the
majority of them were longing to exchange
their dress-coats for a less formal garb, and to
get away downstairs to billiards and smoke ;
yet she held them entranced for the best part
of half an hour, and might have done so much
longer had she yielded to entreaties as sincere
as they were unanimous.

Often, in after times, the memory of that
evening revisited Freddy — the spacious room
and the groups dispersed in different parts of
it ; the soft light of the shaded lamps falling
upon many faces, some sunburnt, some wrinkled,

some painted, but all after a fashion made
beautiful by temporary self-forgetfulness ; the
tall, thin figure in its white draperies, standing
with one leg slightly advanced and the right
foot resting on a footstool, the small head a
little thrown back, the long slender fingers
moving deftly over the strings, the rushing
bow so delicately poised, while all the air
vibrated with the chords of those wild scherzos
and thrilling adagios. The young fellow's heart
thumped with a mixture of triumph and discouragement.
How could he have had the
presumption to think of that exquisite, unearthly
being as his wife ? How could he hope
that she would ever take more than a friendly
and condescending interest in one so far
beneath her as he now felt himself to be ?
He was overwhelmed with shame at the
thought that only a few weeks ago he had
been smitten with the charms of Miss Lambert,
and that she was aware of the disgraceful circumstance.
He felt an almost irresistible
inclination to throw himself at her feet there
and then, and tell her everything — that she
was his first love, as she would be his last (past
little affairs being mere flashes in the pan, as
it were, not worthy of mention or remembrance)
; that henceforth his life belonged to

her alone ; that if she would but hold him out
the faintest encouragement, he would wait, and
strive to earn her love, without murmuring at
any delay ; but that if she turned away from
him, despair, dissipation and death must inevitably
ensue. It is, however, hardly necessary
to say that he did not yield to this rash impulse,
but only sighed, and murmured " Thank
you," like everybody else.

Genevieve had become the centre of a
respectfully admiring throng, and was still
standing by the piano, where she had taken
up her station from mere force of habit — for
she had been playing by heart and without
accompaniment — when a gentleman from whom
she had certainly not expected either praise or
notice advanced and joined the group. Oddly
enough, this was the first time that Mr. Gervis
had listened to his daughters violin. He had
seen it, indeed, from time to time, in Varna's
drawing-room in Paris, but being afflicted with
a sensitive ear, had been careful to make no
remark whatever upon what might so easily
prove to be an instrument of torture ; and
now he had heard, had been surprised and
enchanted, and was coming up to pay his
compliments to the lady, as he would have
done to any stranger.

I congratulate you," said he, with a little
bow. " You have talent and originality, and
I think you may be a great violinist, one of
these days. But — you are too advanced an
artist to care only for politeness — may I permit
myself a criticism or two ? "

Please do' said Genevieve, almost forgetting,
in the pleasure of being praised by one
whom she knew to be a true connoisseur, who
her interlocutor was.

Then let me advise you to cultivate repose.
Repose, in the first place, of attitude and demeanour.
That inspired air, that appearance
of ecstasy, are charming ; but it needs only the
slightest thing in the world to make them
ridiculous. An artist should avoid all such
risks."

Genevieve frowned ; this was not the sort of
criticism she had expected. " I am sorry if I
looked ridiculous," said she drily ; " but I have
never given the subject a thought."

Gervis went on, quite unmoved by the interruption
: " And as with attitude, so with
execution. You have a tendency towards exaggeration.
You accentuate certain passages
overmuch, and you hurry the time so in others
that no accompanyist would be able to keep up
with you. But these are faults which are easily

curable. You have had lessons of course : may
I ask who your masters have been ? "

Genevieve mentioned a few names, more or
less known. " But I have practised very little,"
she said. " All that I really know was taught
me long ago, when I was quite a child, by Herr
von Elbitz, an Austrian. He was very kind tome.
He came often to the house, and took
great pains, and it was he who gave me my
first violin. But he went away suddenly, and I
have never heard of him since," she concluded
rather sadly.

A peculiar smile showed itself about the
corners of Mr. Gervis's thin lips. "Ah," remarked
he, " I think I recollect your instructor.
A particularly good-looking young gentleman
who was among the Princess's intimates at a
certain time. And so he was very kind, and
took great pains ? What are those lines I have
read somewhere ? —

While miss delights in her spinner, the fiddler may a fortune
get,

And oft the dancing-master's art, leaps from the toes to touch
the heart.

And so he went away suddenly, did he ? The
Princess's friends not unfrequently do, I have
observed."

Genevieve understood the innuendo. Alas !

in such a home as hers had been, it would have
been scarcely possible to conceal from her the
interpretation placed by the world upon her
step-mother's numberless platonic friendships ;
nor in truth had that maligned lady been chary
of her confidences upon this point. The girl
raised her eyes to Gervis's face, for one second,
with a look of bitter anger and contempt, and
then, silently turning her back upon him,
walked away to the sofa where Freddy Croft
was still sitting and chewing the cud of his reflections.
Fortunately, the by-sanders, who
had listened in no little astonishment to the
opening of this odd colloquy between the father
and daughter, had now dispersed, and its termination
was not overheard.

Mr. Gervis looked after her, without ceasing
to smile, and then slowly returned to his place
beside Lady Croft, whose maternal eyes had
found out Freddy's secret by this time, and
whose heart was in such a flutter of agitation
and hope that reticence was no longer in her
power.

I am so delighted with your daughter," she
began. " Such a dear girl ! — so quiet and natural
and distinguished-looking. And her playing,
of course, is simply superb ! I am devoted to
music ; so is my son. Oh, Mr. Gervis, I can't

tell you how I long to see him settled down,
with a wife whom one knew to be really nice to
look after him. If only the two young people
would take a fancy to one another, how gladly I
would make room for them, and look out for a
new home ! "

You do us too much honour, Lady Croft,"
answered Mr. Gervis imperturbably ; " but do
not pack up your things yet. What with my
invincible horror of marriage in the abstract,
and what with your son's rather volatile disposition,
your plan seems to me to have more
than one very good chance of coming to nothing.
As for my daughter, I am not very well acquainted
with her ; but it seems to me possible
that she might disappoint you. Ladies who
play the violin as she does do not generally
belong to the model wife and mother class ;
and I have just discovered that she has a
temper."

Here was a pretty reception to accord to the
best parti in Lynshire ! Lady Croft was more
than half inclined to administer the dignified
snub which such language merited ; but she
refrained — partly because she was afraid of the
man, and partly because, as she said to herself,
he was evidently mad.

CHAPTER X.

A CORRESPONDENCE.

One of Princess Varna's most frequent and
bitter complaints against her absent husband
was that he kept certain paid spies to dog her
footsteps, to watch all her movements and
actions, and duly to report upon the same to
their employer. In a general way, she bore
this alleged persecution lightly enough, declaring
that she had nothing to conceal, and
that those who wished to know how her life
was spent were perfectly welcome to inform
themselves upon the subject in any way that
might seem good to them ; but sometimes a
fit of panic and suspicion would seize upon her,
during which every member of her household
was regarded, and told that he was regarded,
with distrust. It was no uncommon thing for
her, while in one of these moods, to dismiss
her entire staff of servants at an hour's notice ;

nor did even Miss Potts's unquestionable honour
and integrity always avail to protect her from
insinuations of the most cruel and unworthy
description. Poor Miss Potts, smarting under
her wrongs, but withheld by her sworn allegiance
to Genevieve from the dignified course
of resigning the somewhat ill-defined position
which she occupied, would go about her avocations,
day after day, with red eyes and a brokenhearted
aspect, until such time as Varna, with
soft purring and feline caresses lavished upon
11 her dear Potts, her good, faithful Potts," saw
fit to re-establish friendly relations. As a proof
of restored confidence, the princess would go
so far as to borrow a ten-pound note from her
good faithful old Potts upon occasion ; for in
that luxurious establishment there was often a
temporary lack of hard cash.

Now it had happened that one of these
recurrent outbreaks had taken place a few days
previously to the Princess's departure from
Southlands, to be followed by the customary
reconciliation ; and one result of the latter appears
to have been a rather voluminous correspondence
between the two ladies. A part
of this correspondence has now — no matter by
what means — come into the possession of the
painstaking compiler of this narrative, and may

very well be made use of here, as a means of
helping the history of the Gervis family on its
way. Here is No. i.

Southlands, August, 18 — .
My dear Madam,

I hasten to acknowledge the receipt
of your most kind and friendly letter, which
reached me by this morning's post, and I can
assure you that the flattering language in which
you are so good as to speak of me was not
needed to convince me that your doubt of my
fidelity was no more than a passing misapprehension,
arising out of circumstances with which
I can well sympathize, and (as you are pleased
to phrase it) make allowances for.

It is indeed most natural that you should
wish for the fullest information as to how our
dear Genevieve's time is passed, now that she
is deprived of your ever watchful care, and I
gladly place my poor pen at your service,
regretting only that I have not the power of
chronicling events in that lively and graphic
style which you, dear madam, possess in so
eminent a degree.

Genevieve tells me that she has herself
written to you a long account of her visit to
Croft Manor, where she seems to have enjoyed

herself greatly, but where, judging by
what I have heard from her and Mr. Claud,
the behaviour of the inmates is most extraordinary,
and, / should say, scarcely becoming
gentlemen and gentlewomen. But during my
long absence from England manners have
undergone so complete a change that I feel I
am no longer able to speak with authority upon
this subject ; and in justice to Sir Frederick
Croft (who, to my great surprise, remembered
me, and sent me the kindest of messages
through dear Genevieve), I must add that,
notwithstanding the questionable taste of some
of his proceedings, I am convinced that his
heart is in the right place. He is an amiable
and generous-minded young man, though mercurial,
I fear.

Since the return home of our little party, no
incident of any importance has occurred to
break the daily round of our occupations and
amusements ; but the fine weather which we
continue to enjoy, together with the various
pleasures of English country life, such as
driving, lawn-tennis, and riding on horseback —
the latter a most beneficial exercise for those
whose nerves are strong enough to permit them
to indulge in it — have prevented Genevieve
from feeling dull ; and I am thankful to say

that I never saw our dear girl in better health
and spirits.

We have seen a good deal of company in a
quiet way, and we are favoured by having a
few exceptionally agreeable neighbours, or perhaps
I ought rather to say friends ; for as such
they are, I think, now regarded by the family.
Mrs. Knowles, whom doubtless you know by
repute, has quite won the affections of our
young people, who frequently visit her at her
house in Beachborough, and bring back droll
accounts of her eccentric habits and startling
speeches. I have myself only once had occasion
to exchange words with this singular lady ;
namely, about a week ago, when she drove up
in her old-fashioned dark green chariot to pay
a formal afternoon call. It seems that she had
not been at Southlands for many years past,
and she was greatly interested in the various
changes brought about by time in the place,
and insisted upon being conducted all over the
gardens, though she is infirm, and can only
walk with the aid of a stick. She was just
about to re-enter her carriage when she caught
sight of me, and advancing towards me immediately,
accosted me in an abrupt, but not
unfriendly tone, with — ' Oh, you are Miss Potts,
eh ? How do you do, Miss Potts ? '

Without any further preface, she proceeded
to put to me a series of short, sharp questions
relating to Genevieve's education and tastes,
and to the manner in which she had been
accustomed to spend her leisure time, when
abroad. This species of cross-examination did
not much please me ; but I responded unreservedly,
for I was a little thrown off my
balance by the suddenness of the attack, and
confused by the consciousness that Mrs.
Knowles's eyes, which are singularly bright and
piercing, were fixed upon me while I was speaking.
When, however, she went on to deliver
judgment — if I may so express myself — upon
certain family matters, and to speak of you,
dear madam, in far from respectful terms, I felt
it my duty to say that I was bound by ties of
gratitude and affection to the Gervis family,
and that I must bes: to be excused from listening
to observations reflecting upon any member
of it. Thereupon Mrs. Knowles laughed,
saying that I was ' a sensible woman not to
chatter,' and, after a few more remarks, which
I prefer not to repeat, got into her carriage, and
was driven away. She is, I believe, a good
and benevolent lady ; but it is easy to see that
she prides herself upon being what is called a
woman of the world, and that her favour would

VOL. I. S

be readily accorded to any one who took pleasure
in listening to her sarcasms, and replied to
them in a similar vein.

A more frequent guest in this house, and
one whose society is, I confess, much more
agreeable to me, is Mr. Flemyng, a man of
high scholarly attainments, from whose conversation
profit, as well as pleasure, may be always
derived, although the subjects of which he
treats are often too deep for the comprehension
of ordinary people, like myself, and although,
when discussing religious topics, he displays
that tendency towards latitudinarianism — not to
say free thought — which, I fear, is almost
universal among the distinguished thinkers of
the present day. This is, no doubt, a subject
for sincere regret; but Mr. Flemyngs great
natural gifts, his clear intellect, and the lofty
standpoint from which he regards those problems
of life which most of us are too apt to
ignore, or carelessly set on one side, make him a
truly valuable addition to our small circle, and
I rejoice that he should come so often among
us.

Of course such a man as I have attempted
to describe is a tempting object for the covert
ridicule of cynical persons ; and it has vexed
me to observe the ill-concealed laughter with

which certain stratagems (doubtless carefully
prepared beforehand) to lead him into self-contradiction
have been rewarded. I am convinced,
nevertheless, that his society and example
cannot but be beneficial to our dear
young people, who, as is only natural at their
age, are a little inclined towards frivolity.

I wish I could speak and think as favourably
of his daughter, Miss Nina Flemyng ; but
I cannot conscientiously do so. Her self-possession
and aplomb may be found fascinating by
gentlemen, and her capricious change of moods,
varying from extreme taciturnity to the most
unreserved communicativeness, may impose
upon some people, and lead them to set her
down as a creature of impulse ; but me she has
never deceived for one moment ; and were I to

tell all " (Here the manuscript is disfigured

by two lines carefully erased.) " The truth is
that she , is a sly girl, whose designs are only
too evident to me. This is strictly between
ourselves, dear madam, and I am sure you will
not allow it to go any further ; but I fear
that she has made up her mind to captivate
Mr. Claud, and, what is worse, that she has
succeeded. He is with her morning, noon, and
night. Now it is one pretext, now another;
but whether she makes up a party to spend the

afternoon in sailing in the yacht, or whether he
goes over to the Moated House to play lawn-tennis
; whether they wade together into deep
pools among the rocks to catch prawns — a
pretty pursuit for a young lady ! — or whether
they explore the lanes in search of ferns — and
I will answer for it that she does not know a
hart's tongue from a polypody — some excuse
for their spending the greater part of their time
in one another's company is always ready. Ah,
if men could only see girls as we see them !
If they knew what that affectation of coldness
one day and exaggerated friendliness the next
really meant, and what old, thread-bare stratagems
are thought good enough to delude such
simpletons as the wisest of them become the
moment a pretty woman thinks fit to devote
herself to them — if, in a word, they had any
common sense at all, young persons like Miss
Flemyng would never get husbands. , I lose all
patience, and I feel myself growing quite hot
and angry, as I write about it. To think that
Mr. Claud, so clever and clear-sighted in cases
where the prospects of others seem in danger of
being compromised, should be so blind to his
own peril ! I am only a poor old governess,
and perhaps I ought to mind my own business
and hold my tongue ; but I have known Mr.

Claud since he was a tiny curly-headed boy ina
blouse and short socks — always tumbling
down he was, and cutting his poor bare knees,
and well I remember how he used to come
running to me for some of my ft homicide divine
and now it breaks my heart to think of his
throwing himself away upon a fortune-hunting
flirt. Only yesterday afternoon I was walking
on the cliffs, and what did I see on the sands
below me ? Mr. Claud standing on a rock,
with his pawning-net in his hand, and that
odious girl a few yards off, vowing — for I
understood her gesticulations well enough —
that she was afraid to cross the space of shallow
water that separated them from one another.
Of course he came splashing back to her ; of
course there were entreaties and protestations ;
and then — I hardly like to write it — he actually
took that shameless creature up in his arms,
and carried her across !

Dear madam, I feel that I have been a little
indiscreet in mentioning this incident, of which
I have spoken to no one but yourself; but it
will serve to show you that I have real grounds
for my alarm. Although nothing has passed
between us upon the subject, I know that dear
Genevieve shares my anxiety, and that it is
making her unhappy. How much of all this

may be suspected, and how much approved, by
other persons I have no idea ; but I can scarcely
suppose that Mr. Claud's marriage at so early
an age and to so undesirable a lady could be
viewed with satisfaction by any one who felt an
interest in his welfare.

But it is time for me to conclude this letter
which I should not have ventured to make so
long, had you not requested me to send you a
detailed account of the manner in which our
days are spent and an accurate description of
all our intimates. Trusting that I may have
acquitted myself of this task to your satisfaction,
I remain, dear madam,

Yours most truly,

Matilda Potts."

II.

"Villa Beausite, Trouville, — August, 187 — .

Allons, voyons, ma tres-chere Potts, quest-ce
que vous me chanted ta ? Have I asked you
for a description of that insupportable old
Flemyng ? Do you think by any chance that
I am interested in the gossip of Mrs. Knowles,
or the amours of Claud ? Let him carry about
all the young girls of the vicinity in his arms,
if he pleases. C'est shocking, si vous voulez,

mais enfin c'est son affaire. Parlez-moi pluto
de notre jeune baronet. What does he do ?
Does he come often to see you ? Is he well
received ? And Genevieve — does she appear
to regard him with favourable eyes ? There,
my good Potts, is what I should have wished
to hear : the rest is all one to me. When you
have any news of some importance to give, you
will write to me, will you not ? But for the
love of God, do not afflict me with your provincials
! They bore me to death, and I have
not the smallest curiosity to learn their sentiments
with regard to me. But, after all, it will
perhaps be easier to you to tell me the whole
of your history than to suppress a part of it.
Continue then, dear and respectable Potts,
continue always ; and believe in the gratitude
of your devoted

V."

III.

"Southlands, — August, 187—.
Dear Madam,

Pray pardon me if my last letter
was too discursive, and if I allowed myself to
treat in it of matters in which, and persons with
whom, you could feel no sympathy. My excuse
must be that I should always be deeply interested

in Mr. Claud, as the brother of my
dear Genevieve, even if his uniform kindness
had not long ago won my gratitude ; and excuse
my adding that I believe that you, dear madam,
are less indifferent to his happiness than you
would have me suppose. I will not, however,
take up your time by saying anything more
about him to-day than that he continues to
devote himself as assiduously as ever to Miss
Flemyng, and that we see little of him here,
except at the breakfast and dinner hours.

Of Sir Frederick Croft I should doubtless
have spoken at greater length in my last letter,
had he been in this neighbourhood at the time
when I wrote ; but he was away just then — I
think at the Goodwood races — and it is only
within the last few days that he has returned.
Now, however, he is in this house constantly ;
and I may add that he has made himself liked
by all who dwell here.

Dear madam, I feel some delicacy and
hesitation in entering upon a subject which,
near and dear though it may be to both our
hearts, is yet one upon which you have never,
in plain words, addressed me. Nevertheless,
I am convinced that you would not keep your
wishes with regard to Genevieve a secret from
me, whose sole object in life is to forward her

happiness ; and upon my discretion I need not
say that you can rely. Your letter, which, as
it happened, arrived on the evening of Sir
Frederick's return, and was read by me while
he was actually in the room, was like a sudden
revelation to me. How I could have been so
dull as not to have guessed, long ago, what
your hopes were I cannot imagine ; but I
suppose the truth is that my wits are not quite
as bright as they once were ; and besides, I
have always fancied — I am thankful to find
erroneously — that you had other views for my
dear girl, and that you did not look forward to
seeing her established in an English home.

Well, my dear madam, I can report to you
that, so far as he is concerned, your mind maybe
at rest. I have, of course, watched him
narrowly ever since my eyes became opened by
the hint conveyed in your note, and I cannot
doubt that he is — if I may allow myself the expression
— over head and ears in love. Everything
proves it. It is not only that he rides
over here every morning, staying usually to
luncheon, and sometimes allowing himself to be
persuaded to remain for dinner also ; it is not
only that he has presented her with a bullterrier
puppy — a troublesome little creature, I
must confess, which is always running behind

me and biting my heels, and has already destroyed
two of the drawing-room cushions — it
is not that he follows her about like her shadow,
and listens to her violin as though it were the
music of the angels in Heaven that he heard.
All this might only show that his fancy was
engaged ; and, from what I have been told and
have seen, Sir Frederick is impressionable, not
to say fickle. But there is more than this. A
palpable, an unmistakable change has come
over the young man. His spirits are by no
means what they were a few weeks ago ; his
manner is often absent and slightly melancholy;
he has certainly grown thinner ; and what
strikes me most of all is the respectfulness
of his demeanour towards Genevieve, whose
every wish appears to be a law to him. May it
be so always, until the end of their lives !

And now as to her. Here I cannot speak so
positively. If any one could interpret her
thoughts, surely I should be able to do so ; but
I am not yet sure whether she has realized the
extent of Sir Fredericks devotion ; still less
whether she has discovered any echo to it in
her own heart. You know how reserved she
is, and that all her feelings lie deep, and do not
readily rise to the surface. This morning,
however, while I was arranoqno; the flowers in

the morning-room, and she and Sir Frederick
were seated by the window, some words passed
between them which gave me matter for subsequent
reflection. She was urging him — most
properly, I am sure — to seek for some definite
object to which to devote his energies and his
abundance of leisure ; and he, while admitting
that his life was a purposeless one, was complaining
that there was no way open to him of
making it less so. For parliamentary duties,
he said, he felt himself unfit, and he added, in
his jocular way, that street-preaching and taking
the chair at temperance meetings were the only
other safety-valves that he knew of for young
men of property in search of a mission. ' But
there is your property itself,' said she; 'surely
there must be interests connected with that, if
you would look for them.' And then, to my
great surprise, she began quite coolly to state
her views of what an ideal English landowner
ought to be.

Now, when I heard her talking as glibly as
possible about rent-audits and high farming and
the prospects of the agricultural labourer, I
began to ask myself how and why she had
learnt all about these matters, of which I am
sure that she was as ignorant a fortnight ago as
I am at this hour ; and I very much doubt

whether it is interest in the Southlands estate
that has caused her to take so much trouble.
In short, I have a suspicion — perhaps I ought
to say a hope — that what you desire may come to
pass. For indeed I do hope with all my heart
that, when my dearest Genevieve's choice is
made, it may fall upon one who loves her as
Sir Frederick Croft evidently does, and who is
as estimable and well meaning as I truly believe
him to be. Only — " Here we come to more
erasures and a large, watery-looking smudge.

But I trust dear madam," resumes the
writer, beginning a fresh page, " that you will
pardon a foolish old woman if she cannot all at
once conquer certain misgivings. All this has
come upon me with great suddenness ; and
although I have always known that sooner or
later I must expect to part with my dearest
child, and that it would be for her happiness
that I should do so, I did not imagine that the
hour of separation was so near at hand. If,
therefore, some natural depression of spirits (for
I cannot forget Sir Fredrick's very recent
entanglement with another lady, nor have I
reached my time of life without some knowledge
of what all men are) prevents me from
expressing myself in an unreservedly joyful
strain, and causes me to cut my letter a little

shorter than I had intended, you will not, I
hope, dear madam, be displeased with

"Your sincere and obliged friend,
Matilda Potts."

P. S. — What the designs and wishes of a
certain person are with regard to the possibility
which we contemplate I am wholly unable to
surmise. He cannot be ignorant of what is
going on ; but he exhibits neither approval nor
disapproval, only watching them sometimes
with a kind of amused smile, and screwing up
his eyes in the way that you know of, which
may be only shortsightedness, but which, to my
mind, always gives the countenance a sinister
expression."

IV.

Trouville, — August, 187 — .
You wretch, Potts ! You heartless, hypocritical
wretch ! Where have you found the
audacity to throw that horrible news in my face,
and to pretend to think that you were giving
me pleasure ? That you should deceive me
and plot against me in my absence, that does
not surprise me ; you are capable of it. That
you should play the game of my enemies, while

assuring me of your fidelity, that is nothing-more
than I have suspected you of for a longtime
past. But that you should have the
effrontery to disclose your conduct, and to
sustain to me that I — / — have desired to make
a match between Genevieve and an Englishman
whom I have never even seen — metis fa net pas
de nom ! You make me sick, Potts ! You speak
of it very much at your ease — of this marriage,
this parting with your - dearest child Et moi
done ? Is she not my child as much as yours ?
Is it not under my roof that she has spent her
life ? And now, among you, you have agreed
to rob me of her — to marry her in England,
where you know that I cannot breathe, and
where she would be as lost to me as if she were
dead.

Mais il en sera rim ! best moi qui votes
m responds ! By this post I write to Gervis —
I remind him of his promises, his oaths — I demand
that Genevieve be restored to me immediately,
and I expose your perfidy, you infamous
Potts ! You will accompany her, I suppose.
It is your duty, and your room will be ready
for you. But I will not speak to you. And
do not permit yourself to address another letter
to me. You have planted a dagger in my
heart, and I can never forgive you.

Varna, Princesse Ouranoff."

V.

Southlands, — August, 187 — .

Madame la Princesse,

In spite of the prohibition you have
laid upon me, I find myself compelled to reply
to your letter received yesterday, which, I need
hardly say, has caused me a great deal of pain.
Perhaps I shall best consult my dignity by
leaving unnoticed the injurious accusations and
epithets with which you have seen fit to assail
me, and by trusting to your own conscience to
tell you whether they have been, or are,
deserved. What I have to confess and to
apologize for is, firstly, that I misinterpreted the
meaning of your previous letter, and, secondly,
that I imprudently committed to writing impressions
which may prove to be wholly without
foundation, and which I should in any case have
done more wisely to keep to myself.

I must now say that I have Mr. Gervis's
commands to convey a message to you ; but
I feel that I cannot discharge this task without
a brief explanation, and even at the risk of
wearying or displeasing you, I must relate the
circumstances under which it was imposed
upon me.

After breakfast, this morning, I was sitting

alone in the rose-garden, whither I had repaired
in search of the solitude which I felt to be
necessary for me, when I perceived Mr. Gervis
approaching me with an open letter in his
hand. 'You heard from the Princess to-days
he began. I signified assent. ' Do not distress
yourself,' said he — for I was unable upon the
spur of the moment to subdue the agitation
in which he had surprised me — ' Take example
by me. I also have been favoured with a
shower of abuse quite as heavy as any that can
have fallen upon you, and you see that it has
left me perfectly calm.'

"He then went on to make some observations
upon the danger and folly of letter-writing,
remarking that he himself had for years
abstained as much as possible from all correspondence,
except such as related to matters
of business. ' And for that reason he added,
in conclusion, ' I will ask you to be so kind as to
include my reply to the Princess in your own

I ventured to submit that such a course
would be eminently distasteful to me ; but he
rejoined that to write with his own hand would
be equally distasteful to him, and that, all things
considered, he preferred putting me to inconvenience
to suffering it himself. He then
proceeded to dictate to me the message which

it was his desire that I should despatch to you.
Remind the Princess, in the first place he
said, ' that I made her no distinct promise whatsoever.
Remind her, in the second place, that
I committed myself to a strong expression of
opinion ; and tell her that that opinion remains
unchanged. Inform her, in the third place, that
it is not my intention to send Miss Gervis back
to France at present ; but that the allowance
for her maintenance, which has hitherto been
paid quarterly to the Princess's bankers, will
continue to be so paid, whether my daughter's
visit to me is or is not prolonged. That,' said
he, ' will, I hope, be found reassuring.'

With these words he turned, as if to leave
me ; but my anxiety and my apprehensions
emboldened me to detain him for a few
moments, during which I endeavoured to
explain what it was that I dreaded on my
dear Genevieve's behalf, and pleaded that she
should not be exposed to the risk of contracting
a serious attachment, if nothing were intended
to come of it. He listened to me with great
patience, and spoke in terms which I could not
but feel to be most gratifying, if sincere, of my
attachment to my former pupil ; but he gave no
definite reply to my question, merely pointing
out to me that the world is full of risks for us

VOL. I. T

all, and that he could not shut his house to Sir
Frederick Croft, or to other young men, because,
in the event of their subsequently asking him
for his daughter's hand, he might find it necessary
to meet them with a refusal. I was forced
to admit the justice of this observation ; and
with that our interview came to an end.

I have now, Madame la Princesse, given
you a full and true report of this conversation.
I abstain from comments upon it, which, in
your present unfortunate frame of mind towards
me, might not be found acceptable by you. I
think it, however, my duty to add— lest at some
future time you should accuse me of want of
candour, or of suppressing facts — that Sir
Frederick Croft is at present staying in this
house, where he has been invited to remain for
three days, on the occasion of the Beachborough
regatta, his own family being, as I understand,
away from home.

I am alone in the house while I write, the
entire party having driven down to the town
early in the day to witness the aquatic sports.
They were so kind as to press me urgently to
accompany them ; but I did not feel myself
in sufficiently good spirits to yield to their
friendly entreaties, and I was unwilling to damp
the hilarity of the party by intruding upon it

the presence of one who has never been able
to assume a cheerful exterior while suffering
inwardly from the unmerited displeasure of
those to whom she is attached and whom she
has ever striven to serve faithfully.
I have the honour to be, Madame la Princesse,
Your obedient servant,

Matilda Potts."

CHAPTER XL

BEACHBOROUGH REGATTA.

Beachborough regatta-day is essentially a festival
of the people. The upper stratum of local
society only countenances the proceedings to
the extent of forwarding its subscription to Mr.
Mayor for prizes and fireworks, and for the
most part shuts itself up indoors, grumbling
and growling, and thanking Heaven that the
20th of August comes but once a year. Meanwhile
the town throws off its customary air of
sober gentility, gives itself up to mirth of a low
order, and descends, for the time being, to the
level of Margate on a bank holiday. After
eleven o'clock in the morning, all the shops are
closed ; the young gentlemen and ladies from
behind the counter emerge, and show themselves
upon the Esplanade in gay apparel ;
excursion trains from Lynchester, and other
more distant places, bring hundreds of overheated

strangers to swell the throng ; brass
bands, itinerant photographers and nigger
minstrels take possession of the beach ; and
it must be confessed that expressions may
occasionally be heard flying about among the
ranks of this assemblage which are not of a
strictly parliamentary kind.

Now if there is one thing that we abhor
more than another in Beachborough it is
vulgarity. It grieves us to see these dreadful
people making themselves at home upon our
shingle, scattering orange-peel and cherry-stones
upon our asphalte, and lolling upon
the benches which are wont to afford rest to
our own noble persons. The whole spectacle
is revolting to us ; and it is as much as we can
do to cast a disdainful glance, every now and
then, from behind our closed windows, at the
boat races, the duck hunts and the greasy poles,
which give such unbounded delight to our
humbler fellow-townsmen outside.

"When this infernal regatta day comes round,
sir," says Admiral Bagshawe, " I shut my
daughters up in the back rooms of the house.
You may talk to me till you're black in the face
about the amusements of the people ; but if the
people can't amuse themselves without getting
beastly drunk in broad daylight and using

words, sir, which make me shudder — positively
shudder " (and he an old sailor too ! What
licence of language can these miscreants have
permitted themselves ?) " all I can say is, the
less the people amuse themselves the better —
the less the better, by gad ! "

From all this it will be perceived that it was
really very wrong of Freddy Croft to represent
to his friends at Southlands that they ought
to show themselves in Beachborough on the
regatta-day. As, however, they were able to
view the saturnalia from the deck of their
yacht, and never approached nearer than within
a mile and a half of the shore, they scarcely
ran more risk of contamination than Admiral
Bagshawe's daughters ; and, taking into consideration
the fact that they were virtually
foreigners, one ought not perhaps to be too
hard upon them for having found the scene
both picturesque and diverting. With the
reader's permission, we will once more pay a
flying visit to the Siren, and station ourselves
for a time as invisible spectators in the after
part of that roomy vessel.

The sun has run his daily journey across a
cloudless sky, and is dropping down towards
his rest behind the western hills; the yacht
lies motionless upon the glassy waters of the

bay ; the various events of the day's programme
have passed off — to borrow the expression
of Mr. Porringer, the mayor, who has
just been on board to pay his respects — " without
an 'itch ; " and only the last of these — " a
sculling race, to be rowed (weather permitting)
in outrigger skiffs for a prize of twenty-five
sovereigns, presented by Sir Frederick Croft,
Bart." — remains for decision. Freddy, the originator
and organizer of this rather hazardous
competition, has gone off to take part in it ;
Genevieve, Claud and Nina Flemyng are leaning
over the side, their field-glasses fixed upon
the distant starting-point ; Mr. Gervis is reclining
in a wicker armchair, with eyes, as usual,
half closed, while Mr. Flemyng, also as usual,
is enjoying the monopoly of speech.

The heat of the weather has led Mr. Flemyng
to supplement an ample luncheon by repeated
draughts of champagne-cup ; his countenance
beams with benevolence and goodwill ; the
ever-flowing stream of his words rolls on with
a certain acquired richness of utterance.

Yes, Mr. Gervis, I believe that the benefits
conferred upon England, in an unobtrusive
way, by the system of an unpaid magistracy
are beyond calculation. It is a peculiarly
English institution. My impression is — and if

I am mistaken, your experience of foreign life
will, no doubt, enable you to set me right —
that there is nothing corresponding to it in
other countries. In fact, I doubt whether you
would find in any other country a class of men
resembling that from which our county magistrates
are chosen."

Mr. Gervis is understood to say that he is
convinced that the class in question is unique.

"Well, we don't lay claim to much knowledge
of law ; that is not necessary ; nor are we men
of any great intellectual power — at least, the
generality of us are not," says Mr. Flemyng,
remembering one conspicuous exception to this
rule ; " but we have common sense and tact
yes, I think I may say that we have tact —
and we understand the people with whom we
have to deal. Which, you know, is half the
battle. I was sorry you could not remain
longer at our meeting the other day ; still I
dare say you heard enough to gain some rough
idea of the working of the system."

I think so," answered Mr. Gervis modestly.
And I assure you I was immensely diverted."

Eh ? "

I say I was greatly edified. Some of the
decisions struck me as most — remarkable."

"Ah, I am glad you were pleased. Cases

often come before us which demand something
more than a mere competency to adjudicate
upon the bare facts, if you understand what
I mean. For instance, there was that charge
of assault which you heard, and which very
likely you thought that we dismissed rather
cavalierly. The fact is, we knew perfectly well
that severity would be misplaced there. The
one man was really as much to blame as the
other, and it was for the benefit of the whole
parish, as well as for their own, that they should
shake hands over it, and put an end to a
long-standing quarrel. Then, again, there was
another case which we dealt with in a different
spirit ; that of the man who was charged with
shooting a partridge, as you may remember."

Perfectly. It seems to have been an
instance of singular depravity. One of your
brother magistrates — the old clergyman with
the very brilliant complexion — whispered to me
that a man who would shoot a partridge in
August would do anything."

"Ah, poor Turner, yes. One of the old
school. A well-meaning man, but a little hasty
and injudicious in his remarks sometimes. I
need not point out to you that the offence perse
was not a very grave one ; and in fact
Turner himself was for letting the prisoner off

with a severe reprimand and the smallest fine
we could inflict ; but I was firm with him.
By no means I said. ' On the contrary, let
it be the heaviest fine permissible and ten days'
imprisonment in default. Burvill,' I said, addressing
the prisoner, 'you are a notorious
vagabond. This is not the first time that we
have seen you here ; and I suspect that you
ought to have been brought up before us more
often than you have been. Now ' "

"No relation to Tom Burvill, the fisherman,
I hope," broke in Claud. " Tom has shown
us many a good day's sport, and I should be
sorry to hear of any one belonging to him getting
into trouble."

The father, I believe, of your friend,"
answered Mr. Flemyng, looking as if he did
not much relish the interruption, "and, as I
was saying, a notorious rogue and vagabond.
He has been insolent to me personally upon
more than one occasion ; though of course I
did not allow that circumstance to weigh with
me. Well, I gave him to understand that, now
that he was in our power, we intended to make
an example of him ; and I think the fellow's
assurance was rather shaken when he heard the
amount he would have to pay."

That, I suppose," remarked Mr. Gervis

blandly, " was one of the cases which demand
something more than a mere competency to
adjudicate upon bare facts."

Exactly so ; and "

And did he pay ? " asked Claud, interrupting
again.

Well, yes," answered Mr. Flemyng, rubbing
the back of his head, with a movement of vexation
; " I am sorry to say that he did. The
man was removed, and I thought of course that
he would be locked up ; but somehow or other
- — whether he has stolen more than I save him
credit for, or whether he got a loan from his
friends I can't say — the money was forthcoming,
and so there was an end of it. I saw
him loafing about on the beach this morning
with a number of his lazy companions, and
they made some coarse jest at my expense as
I passed. These fishermen are an unruly and
independent lot. They stand by one another,
and manage to set authority at defiance in
more ways than one ; and as they all have a
vote both for parliamentary and municipal
elections, they are able, I regret to say, to
bring a certain amount of pressure to bear upon
the borough magistrates. It is a grievous
scandal. Municipal reform, Mr. Gervis, is
urgently needed both here and elsewhere.

The rate-payers of this town require to be
roused to a sense, not only of their interests,
but of their duty."

But Mr. Flemyng found it advisable to put
off further remarks upon this important subject
to some more favourable opportunity, perceiving
that no one — not even Mr. Gervis — was listening
to him. For now the first sculling race
ever rowed in Beachborough bay had begun ;
and it was not on board the Siren alone that
this novel contest was watched with breathless
interest.

Four competitors only — the fittest survivors
of a numerous entry — had the courage to
assemble at the mark-boat, and were now
urging their frail craft over the calm water.
Besides Freddy himself, there was young
Plummer (junior partner in the well-known firm
of Plummer Sandal and Sons, wholesale and
retail grocers, High Street, Beachborough,
established 1750); there was a certain solicitor's
clerk, Thomson by name ; and finally there
was Maltby, the brewer, a muscular youth
belonging to that luckless betwixt-and-between
class of which most country towns furnish a few
samples — unfortunates whom wealth has deprived
of their old companions, but has not as
yet floated into the society of those who fancy

themselves their betters. Maltby, who rode
straight to hounds, was a steady shot and a
good bowler, had, by virtue of these excellences,
earned a friend in Freddy Croft, for whose
various small marks of attention he was so
inordinately grateful that it was quite an open
question whether he would be able to bring
himself to win a race from his beloved patron.

As far as could be seen, however, he was not
likely to have much choice in the matter.
Freddy took the lead from the first, and drew
away with long, easy strokes, leaving Plummer
and Thomson more and more hopelessly in the
rear every moment. The brewer, a more
powerful man, but heavier and in less good
condition, stuck to him pluckily ; so that, to
unpractised eyes, there was some semblance of
a struggle ; but Claud, who had been a wet-bob
at Eton, knew that his friend could win ashe
liked.

It is no race at all," said he, dropping his
glasses, with a slight gesture of disappointment,
at the end of the first round. " It's Croft first,
and the rest nowhere."

"Oh, I hope he will win!" exclaimed
Genevieve.

I am not sure that I do. It is rather hard
upon the others to ask them to start upon even

terms with an Oxonian ; and that big man
really has some notion of what he is about,
though he will persist in feathering so near the
water. Besides, doesn't it seem rather absurd
to give a prize, and carry it off yourself ? "

Oh, but he does not mean to accept the
prize," replied Genevieve promptly ; " he is
going to make the one who comes in second
take it. And he would not have raced at all
if they had not begged him so hard, and declared
that none of them would start unless he
did."

It seems that you know all about it, Gen,"
remarked Claud. " Perhaps you can tell us
who is to come in second."

Whereat Miss Flemyng laughs in that low
musical way that she has, which sounds enchanting
to certain prejudiced ears, and ill-natured
to others, no doubt equally prejudiced.

Meanwhile the scullers have rounded the east
mark-boat for the second time ; and what is the
meaning of that murmur which rises, all of a
sudden, from the beach, and swells into a
general roar, amidst which certain articulate
shouts, such as " Hooray, Maltby ! Well rowed,
Maltby ! " — " Now, Sir Frederick, wake up,
sir ! " can be distinguished ? Can it be a race
after all ? Sure enough, the brewer has made

a magnificent spurt. He is overtaking his
leader — he has caught him — he is level with
him. On board the Siren the excitement becomes
intense, and everybody begins to speak
at once. " He has passed him, I do believe ! "
Not a bit of it ; it only looks as if he had from
where you are standing." " Freddy leads ! "
No, he doesn't. Maltby leads." What is
certain is that both men are doing their best,
and that if Freddy bears away the prize, it will
not be without having had a fight for it. Mr.
Gervis remarks casually that he will take odds
about the brewer's chance even now ; and Miss
Flemyng, with great presence of mind, immediately
lays him thirteen pairs of gloves to
a dozen on Freddy.

Why, it's a thousand pounds to a penny on
him ! " cries Claud, forgetting his manners a
little in the heat of the moment.

Nina observes quietly that it is never a
thousand pounds to a penny on any event ; but
she little imagines what a speedy confirmation
her assertion is to receive.

Nobody will ever know how it was that
Freddy managed to get swamped within fifty
yards of the winning-point. An absurd rumour
was set about in Beachborough to the effect
that he had done it purposely, not wishing to

win the race, and finding that he could not lose
It ; another theory laid the blame of the catastrophe
upon one of those pestilent steam-launches,
which came puffing up at that moment,
to be in at the finish, raising the usual swell as
it went ; and there were even found some
persons impertinent enough to allege that Sir
Frederick lost his balance, and caught a crab.
He himself avers that he has not the most
distant idea of how it happened, and that all
he can say is that it does not take a very
great deal to upset an outrigger.

Whatever the cause of the mishap may have
been, the consternation of the spectators onboard
Mr. Gervis's yacht, when their friend suddenly
disappeared from view, may be imagined.
Genevieve did not at first understand what was
the matter ; but when she realized that a distant
object upon the water, which flashed as it
caught the sun's rays, was Freddys boat, floating
bottom upwards, she could not repress a
cry of alarm. " Oh, Claud, tell them to lower
a boat at once. He will be drowned. Why
don't they do something ? "

He is all right," returned Claud calmly.
Don't you see him swimming ? Croft is amphibious.
But he has lost his race, and Miss
Flemyng has lost her gloves."

It was too true ; and deep was Miss
Flemyng's self-reproach on remembering that
she had laid the odds on Sir Frederick instead
of against the brewer. For, while Genevieve
was watching the leisurely progress of a blackhead
shorewards, and the sympathetic reception
subsequently accorded to a dripping figure
upon the shingle, the sculling championship
and the purse of five-and-twenty sovereigns
were being won after an unexpected fashion.
Maltby, good man, was stronger in the arms
than in the head, and the sight of his revered
patron struggling in the water threw him into
a panic as great as, and far more unreasonable
than, Genevieve's. That he did not immediately
cast himself in after the unfortunate
competitor was only owing to a timely recollection
that Freddy could swim like a fish ; but
he forgot all about the race, backed water, and
remained motionless, gazing stupidly after the
retreating swimmer, until something or somebody
came splashing and snorting by him, and
cheers, not unmingled with laughter, proclaimed
the triumph of Plummer, Sandal and Sons.
Well might Nina declare, with a stamp of her
foot, that she would never touch another drop
of that man's beer to the end of her life.

With this unsatisfactory victory the proceed-vol.
1. u

kings of the day ended ; and half an hour later
Genevieve was driving homewards behind a
pair of cobs which had latterly been appropriated
to her especial use. She was alone ;
for Freddy, who had occupied the place beside
her in the morning, and who had not been
able to change his boating flannels, would not
consent to ruin her cushions by sitting upon
them in his saturated condition, and had reluctantly
ensconced himself in a corner of the
break which had borne away the rest of the
party. Genevieve let her horses walk up the
long hill. The evening was sultry, and the
road ankle-deep in dust, and rapid motion
seemed likely to entail discomforts of various
kinds. So the quiet, well-fed cobs took things
easily, straggling from one side of the road to
the other, and stopping, every now and then,
to stamp when the flies became particularly
troublesome, while their driver, allowing the
reins to hang loosely in her hand, indulged ina
prolonged reverie.

Of what was she thinking, as she leant back
in her low carriage, those melancholy eyes of
hers fixed upon vacancy, and her whip absently
flicking the overhanging growth of the hedges
by the wayside ? Perhaps of the future, that
endless subject of speculation for those who are

young enough to believe that the fulfilment of
dreams lies hidden there ; perhaps of the present,
which for young and old alike is mostly full of
perplexities ; perhaps of nothing at all ; for on
hot summer evenings, when little breezes just
stir the leaves, and there is a sleepy hum of
insects in the air, and all living things seem to
cease from their daily toil, the mind will sometimes
approach very nearly to that state of restful
beatitude. Whatever may have been the
subject of her musings, it could not have been
altogether disagreeable ; for though her eyes
kept their sad, dreamy look, a faint smile
dawned gradually upon her lips and remained
there. Moreover, she had noticed the passage
of time so little that she was much surprised
to find herself opposite the Southlands lodge,
after having taken the best part of an hour to
accomplish a distance of barely three miles.

She had gathered up her reins, and was preparing
to turn in at the gate, when there
appeared suddenly, from somewhere out of the
twilight, the tall, spare figure of a man, who,
striding forward, and laying one hand upon the
side of the pony-carriage, announced in a hollow
theatrical voice, " Best moi ! " Immediately
after which he fell back in evident discomfiture,
murmuring, " Mille pardons, mademoiselle ! "
and bowing down to the ground.

Genevieve paused, uncertain whether to drive
on, and leave this bewildered stranger to his
fate, or to ask him what he wanted. He was a
narrow-shouldered man, in a tightly-buttoned,
threadbare coat and dusty boots, who might or
might not be a gentleman in reduced circumstances.
His face was thin, drawn, and scored
with deep lines, his light-blue eyes had an
anxious, deprecating look, and there was a
shrinking submission about his whole attitude,
as he stood bare-headed by the way-side, which
moved Genevieve to pity. While she was
looking at him he seemed to gather fresh
courage, and advanced a step or two with
another low bow.

Have I not the honour to address Miss
Gervis ? " he asked, in English.
Genevieve bowed.

I have been waiting a long time in the hope
of seeing the Princess Ouranoff : in this uncertain
light, I mistook you for her at first, mademoiselle
— a stupid error. May I inquire
whether the Princess is living here at present?"


She is not," Genevieve answered ; " she is
abroad." And then, perceiving the half-suppressed
gesture of dismay with which the
stranger received this intelligence, she added
hesitatingly, " Can I do anything for you ? "

He shook his head, muttering something
about a matter of business, and a communication
he had wished to make to the Princess,
but looked so broken-hearted over it, and so ill
and exhausted withal, that Genevieve could not
find it in her heart to leave him.

"Mr. Gervis is at home. Would you not
like to see him ? " she suggested.

Mr. Gervis — ah ! Mr. Gervis," he echoed,
speaking hardly above a whisper, and keeping
his eyes fixed upon the dusty road. " Yes ; I
could see him. Perhaps, after all, it would bethe
best way — since one is driven to it. Yes :
perhaps it would be best that I should see Mr.
Gervis."

I am sure it would," said Genevieve, encouragingly.


The fact was that she had taken the newcomer's
measure by this time. Persons resembling
him were not unfrequent visitors in the
Boulevard Malesherbes — distressed Russian
noblemen, whom political or other misfortunes
had reduced to want, and who relied upon a
former acquaintanceship with the Princess Oura-
off, or simply upon the tie of a common nationality,
to loosen her purse-strings for their benefit.
Varna was always amiable with these unfortunates.
If her husband was away, she relieved

them out of her own pocket with so exquisite
a grace that the smallness of the donation
seemed a matter of secondary importance to
its grateful recipients ; but if, by any chance,
Mr. Gervis happened at the time to be occupying
his suite of rooms overhead, it was thither
that they were requested to address themselves,
and thence that they would shortly emerge,
bearing with them a larger sum than they had
counted upon, together with the memory of
certain caustic speeches which freed them from
any harassing sense of obligation. Genevieve
knew that, whatever might be her fathers
faults, parsimony was not one of them, and
had no fear that this poor wretch would be sent
empty away from Southlands. Only, being
still in some uncertainty as to his social standing,
she debated within herself whether she
ought to offer him the vacant seat in her pony-carriage
or not. Another glance at his weary
face turned the scale in his favour.

If you will allow me, I will drive you up to
the house," she said.

Oh, mademoiselle, you are too good. I shall
go very well on foot."

But it is some distance," urged Genevieve,,
"and it is all up-hill. And you look tired."

The man wavered. " Yes, mademoiselle," he

answered, " I have had a long walk, and I am
very tired, and •"

He did not end his sentence ; but his face
finished it for him so plainly with the words
very hungry " that there was no need for this
humiliating admission to be put into language.

He did not require much more persuasion ;
and indeed, from the air of utter exhaustion
with which he fell back upon the cushions and
the violent fit of coughing which presently overtook
him, Genevieve much doubted whether he
would have been able to mount the hill without
assistance. He scarcely spoke again, except to
inform her that his name was Hirsch (not a
very aristocratic one, to be sure), that he was, as
she had surmised, a Russian subject, and that
he had had the honour of knowing the Princess
Ouranoff for many years ; but she noticed that
his hands were clean and white, like a gentleman's,
and her woman's heart being touched by
his forlorn aspect, she would have asked him
to dine and offered him a room for the night,
had she not feared that such an invitation might
be subsequently ignored by her father.

Mr. Gervis, however, received the shabby
stranger with his usual cold urbanity, and, to
Genevieve's great relief, showed himself equal
to the necessities of the occasion at all events
in so far as meat and drink were concerned.

"We shall be sitting down to dinner ina
quarter of an hour," he said. " Perhaps
M. Hirsch will join us, and any little matter
of business we may have to discuss can be
deferred until afterwards."

So M. Hirsch was conducted upstairs to a
dressing-room, whither, by Genevieve's directions,
a servant presently brought him some
wine and biscuits with his hot water.

CHAPTER XII.

HOSPITALITY.

Having acted the good Samaritan's part
towards this wretched, half starved Hirsch,
having picked him up by the roadside, placed
him in her own pony-trap and restored him with
creature comforts, Genevieve naturally considered
the man as in some sort her peculiar
property, and began to feel herself drawn
towards him, as the thrush does towards the
helpless, intruding cuckoo whose life depends
upon her care. She arranged that he should
sit beside her at the dinner-table; she addressed
her conversation to him, instead of to Freddy
Croft, who was seated on her left hand ; she
tried to set him at his ease and to make him
feel that he was admitted into the house as an
equal, not upon sufferance only, as a beggar in
disguise.

And this was the more creditable to her

because closer scrutiny and a brighter light
revealed the stranger as a decidedly unprepossessing
person. His cast of countenance
was that of the habitual criminal. A retreating
forehead, deep-set, colourless eyes, which
winked and blinked perpetually, a certain undefinable
covert impudence, veiled under an
exaggerated humility of address — every detail
of the man's manner and appearance, from his
dust-coloured hair, cropped closely a la brosse,
to his stooping shoulders and his crafty sidelong
glance, seemed to breathe of penal servitude.
But the worst thing about M. Hirsch
was that in proportion as his outer man became
refreshed with food and wine his humility
showed signs of deserting him. He grew
garrulous, praised Genevieve's costume, criticised
adversely the style of dress in vogue
among English ladies in general, let fall some
observations about insular self-sufficiency, and
interrupted Mr. Flemyng, who had been reading
an article entitled " Constitutional Prerogative,"
and was giving a synopsis of the same
for the benefit of the ill-informed, by a curt
remark to the effect that the British monarchy
was doomed.

"Sir," said Mr. Flemyng grandly, "when you
are better acquainted with this country you will

discover that sedition is practically a thing
unknown among us, and you will learn to
abstain from language which in all classes of
English society is apt to be resented as a personal
affront."

This ought to have crushed him ; but it did
not. He shrugged his shoulders, with a short,
disagreeable laugh. " The majority will always
support institutions that exist," said he. " Once
the sovereign is deposed and the constitution
has fallen to pieces, the majority will be composed
of very good republicans."

The British Crown and the British Constitution
will never fall," remarked Gervis solemnly,
from the other end of the table. "We have
Mr. Flemyng's word for it ; and the subject is
one which Mr. Flemyng has studied in all its
bearings. Indeed, I have heard it whispered —
though perhaps I ought not to say so — that the
able article which he has been quoting is from
his own pen."

No, no, I assure you ! " cried Mr. Flemyng,
waving his hand deprecatingly, but looking
vastly pleased. " There is ability in the article
great ability ; and the writer's facts are indisputable
and clearly put ; but many of his
deductions are such as I should hesitate to
subscribe to. I have always been a Liberal

myself — I may add an advanced Liberal —
possibly too advanced a one for the age. Still,
I can conscientiously say that disloyalty of the
nature suggested by Mr. — er — by your friend
has never entered into my speculations for the
future."

One can't tell what Gladstone may do,
though, if he gets the chance," observed Claud.
I confess I don't understand Mr. Gladstone."

It is a common thing in these days," said
Mr. Flemyng, raising his voice, " to hear men
complain that they ' do not understand ' Mr.
Gladstone. Just so the Papal consistory 'did
not understand ' Galileo, the Athenians of old
1 did not understand ' Aristides, and, to comedown
to our own era, the English people of
twenty years back 'did not understand' the
Prince Consort. I would ask those who thus
bring what they imagine to be an accusation
whether the fault may not lie rather with their
own comprehension than with the statesman
whose intellect it fails to grasp. Of this they
may rest assured, that when the history of the
nineteenth century comes to be perused by
generations yet unborn, the name of Gladstone
will be seen written across it in letters of imperishable
light, while those of many who now
strut the world's stage, decked in the pride of

a brief authority, will have passed for ever into
those shades of oblivion whither pretentious
mediocrity and self-seeking timidity inevitably
tend."

This noble peroration had the effect of
causing subdued smiles and meaning glances to
be interchanged all round the table ; and Freddy
Croft, who was drinking a glass of wine at the
time, choked himself, and left the room with
a hasty, unsteady step. The truth is that it
was taken verbatim from the tag-end of a leading
article, which some one had designedly left
in a conspicuous place on the library table. It
was an innocent pastime of Mr. Gervis's to
lay traps of this kind for his loquacious neighbour,
who, with a little management, could
always be led to walk into them, and whom
a love of high-sounding words would sometimes
betray into eulogizing opposing men and
measures almost in one and the same breath.

Genevieve on the present occasion lost the
joke, her attention being engaged by M. Hirsch,
who had dropped politics, and was discoursing

glibly upon the manifold charms of the Princess

Ouranoff.

You are very fond of Madame la Princesse?

Needless to say that, mademoiselle ; who can

resist her? So much beauty! so much elegance!

a heart so generous ! For the rest, it is not
surprising that she should possess your affection,
having such exceptional claims of age and relationship.
It is as if one should say a mother
and a sister in one. Charming ! "

Is it long since you saw Varna last ? "
asked Genevieve, not much pleased with
M. Hirsch's familiarity, yet hardly knowing
how to check it.

Long ? Oh yes, it is many years. But
I have not been without news of my old friend.
I say my old friend, because there was a time
when I knew the Princess Ouranoff very well
intimately. I do not think that, when we
meet again, she will need that I should tell her
my name — oh no ; I think she will not ask me
to do that."

Something in the notion seemed to tickle
him ; for he laughed softly to himself, showing
his sharp, discoloured teeth.

But the time I speak of is long ago," he
resumed presently. " The world goes round ;
friends part ; new ties are formed. One does
not forget the friends of former years ; but one
cannot always be with them. I have scarcely
even seen the Princess since her second marriage
; and curiously enough, mademoiselle, I
have never until this evening beheld your papa."

Except at Wiesbaden, in the summer of
iso," put in Mr. Gervis quietly.

The ex-diplomatist had a peculiar power of
listening to two or more conversations at the
same time. He had also a remarkable faculty
of throwing his voice, so that he could make
himself heard across wide intervening spaces.
That languid voice travelled down the long-table
now with marvellous distinctness, and the
effect of it was not only to cause the flush on
M. Hirsch's thin cheeks to vanish very quickly,
but also to arrest the tongues of the rest of the
company, who doubtless felt some pardonable
curiosity as to the antecedents of this out-elbows
foreigner. Amid a general silence the
stranger bent forward to face his host, his eyes
blinking more rapidly than ever, and his features
expressing innocent surprise.

Mr. Gervis makes a mistake," he said. " I
was never at Wiesbaden in all my life."

That is curious," remarked Gervis ; " because
my memory so very rarely deceives me.
I was misled, I suppose, by a strong resemblance,
and also by the circumstance that the
person whom I recollect was, like M. Hirsch,
a Russian. I believe, though', now I come to
think of it, that he did not bear the name of
Hirsch — which, indeed, does not strike me as
having a Slavonic ring."

I am a Courland by birth," said the other
quickly.

Ah, indeed ? Mr. Flemyng, I am afraid
I interrupted you in the middle of a most
entertaining anecdote. Pray do not deprive
us of the end of it."

A general hum of talk began once more ;
but poor M. Hirsch's peace of mind was evidently
destroyed. He drank no more wine ;
he scarcely pretended to eat ; he no longer
addressed his neighbour familiarly, but in the
timid, cringing manner which had at first
aroused her pity. Looking more than ever
like an escaped convict, he appeared to recognize
in his host the detective who might at any
moment ruin him by a word. And that terrible
Gervis, perceiving this, amused himself by tormenting
the unfortunate man, dropping upon
him, when he least expected it, with some polite
innuendo, some double-edged commonplace, the
meaning of which, to Genevieve's ears, was
clearly enough — " My good man, you are not
simple enough to imagine that you can take mein,
are you ? Surely you don't suppose that I
believe your name to be Hirsch, or that I am
not acquainted with all the incidents of your
disreputable career. Spare yourself the trouble
of telling more lies ; we understand one another.

You want money ; I have plenty of it ; and I
know you are mean enough and hungry enough
to allow yourself to be kicked while you pickup
the gold."

Genevieve thought she understood it all, and
her heart swelled with silent indignation. Her
father's habit of gratifying his caustic humour
at the expense of his guests seemed to her a
breach of all the laws of honour and hospitality.
She had never been able to derive any amusement
from the spectacle of poor Mr. Flemyng
egged on to make a fool of himself in public ;
and to make merry over fallen humanity by
distributing simultaneous alms and insults was
to her mind as sorry a sport as a gentleman
could well indulge in. This luckless and unattractive
Hirsch might very possibly be a
rogue ; but who could tell what his temptations
might have been ? He was at all events ill,
weary and in want ; and why should any one
wish to degrade him further than need be ?
With such thoughts as these passing through
her mind, Genevieve forgot the free-and-easy
carriage of her neighbour which had offended
her a little earlier in the evening, and by treating
him thenceforth with marked friendliness,
tried to make some amends for her father's
lack of courtesy. And the man was not un-vol.

i. x

grateful. When Genevieve rose to leave the
room, he bent towards her, and said in a low
voice, " You have been very kind to me, mademoiselle
— to me, who am not accustomed to
kindness. I shall not forget."

Along the south front of the house at South-lands
runs a broad terrace walk, on which many-benches
and chairs are generally left ; a walk
to be avoided during the daytime, when the
sun beats full upon it, but cool and pleasant
when the night breezes blow up the valley from
the sea, and fragrant with the scent of rose and
sweet-briar, jasmine and mignonette. Thither,
instead of to the drawing-room, the ladies betook
themselves on this sultry night ; and there
they were joined, ere long, by three out of the
five men whom they had left at the dinner-table.
Poor Miss Potts, sitting disconsolately
apart, wrapped in a gloomy reverie of which
the subject may be divined by the reader, experienced
a temporary return of cheerfulness
when she saw Mr. Flemyng bearing down
upon her. That great genius had lately discovered
the veneration in which he was held
by the humble lady-companion, and, in default
of a better listener, sometimes deigned to favour
her with one of his exhaustive disquisitions.
The party divided itself quite naturally into

groups of two ; for it had now become a matter
of course that, upon every available opportunity,
Freddy should pair off with Genevieve, and
Claud with Nina.

The latter couple soon strolled away into the
darkness, and were lost to sight. Silently they
paced, side by side, along the gravel walks,
past clumps of rhododendrons and azaleas, and
across a broad space of sloping lawn. Their
intimacy had reached that perilous stage in
which long periods of speechlessness play so
important a part. Halting at length beside the
iron fence which separates the garden from the
park, Nina dropped the opera-cloak which she
had been carrying upon the topmost rail, and
resting her bare arms upon it, abstractedly contemplated
the shadowy prospect of hill, wood
and valley that ended, far beneath her feet, ina
vague fusion of sea and sky ; while Claud
turned his back upon the view, and, with folded
arms, gazed at the gazer.

Have you read those two volumes of poems
I gave you ? " he asked abruptly, after these
respective attitudes had been maintained for
several minutes.

Yes," she answered, turning her head, so as
to meet his eyes ; "I have read them both
over and over again."

Really ? You liked them then ? "

I thought them quite perfect. I don't know
when I have read anything that delighted me
so much."

Do you say that to please me, or because
you mean it ? "

Of course because I mean it. Have you
not found out yet that I always mean what I
say?"

"Well, I don't know," said Claud. "I suppose
you find, as everybody else does, that it
is impossible to practise an invariable sincerity
without hurting some one's feelings ; and after
my having told you that the author of those
lines was a particular friend of mine, you could
hardly call them ' melodious twaddle,' could
you r

"Why not ? Your friend might be the best
fellow in the world, and a poor poet. But
nobody, except an idiot, could possibly speak
of his work in that way."

Then the critic who devoted ten lines to
Here and There ' in the Saturday Review is
an idiot. I must confess that I suspected as
much before ; but it is pleasant to have one's
opinion confirmed. Miss Flemyng, if I were
to let you into a great secret — a secret which
I have never yet divulged to any one — do you
think you could keep it ? "

I think," answered Nina demurely, " that I
could."

"Well, then — I am trembling all over; but
I made up my mind that I would tell you, and
sooner or later the plunge must be taken — the
author of those miserable little attempts at
poetry was — myself."

Oh, yes, I knew that," observed Nina composedly.


Did you ? " Claud was not a little mortified.
" I feel exactly as if I had been trying
to let off a damp firework' said he, making
light of his discomfiture as best he could. " I
thought I was going to astonish you, and now
it is you who have astonished me. Would you
mind telling me what made you guess that
1 Clement Gerard ' and I were one and the
same person ? "

"It was so difficult to guess, was it not?"
returned Nina, laughing. " There are such
numbers of people about who can write verses
in French and English, and who bear the
initials of C. G. And besides, I think I should
always recognise any writing of yours," she
added softly, laying just enough of emphasis
upon the last word to send an agreeable thrill
through the poet's whole person.

Claud had inherited from his Italian mother

a really magnificent pair of soft dark-brown
eyes, the use of which, as a means of expressing
things unutterable, he had only recently begun
to discover. He now raised these speaking
orbs to the grey ones of Miss Flemyng, who,
I dare say, found it no less easy to read their
language than she had done to put a name to
the writer who disguised himself under the
pseudonym of Clement Gerard. Another long
period of silence was broken by Nina.

Don't you feel very proud ? " she asked.

Of what ? Of having found publishers
willing to print my rubbish ? They are
wretched stuff, and nobody knows it better
than I do ; but, having launched them upon
the world, I couldn't resist the temptation of
showing them to you. And you did actually
find some of them just readable ? " hazarded
Claud once more, with that mixture of self-depreciation
and hunger for the praise of
others which commonly characterizes young
authors.

I have read them lots and lots of times,"
answered Nina; "and I think they are very,
very good — awfully good."

Then I am more than satisfied," Claud
declared. " I would rather have heard you say
that than have seen my poor little book driven

into a second and third edition by the praise
of all the critics in England."

1 You think so now, perhaps ; you won't
think so this time next year."

The young man was going* to protest ; but
Nina stopped him by lifting up one of her
little hands. " Please don't swear that you
will consider my good opinion the one thing
in the world worth having as long as you live.
It would be very nice if that sort of thing could
be true ; but unfortunately it can't, you know.
The melancholy fact is that, a year hence — or,
to be well within the mark, we will say two
years hence — you will not care a straw whether
I like your poems or not. More than that, I
shall not care whether you care."

That may be true as regards you ; but not
as regards me."

"Oh yes, it will ; do you think I don't know?
Tout lasse, tout passe. We are what we are,
not what we should like to be ; and perhaps,
if the truth were known, it would be rather a
bore to live in a world inhabited by unchangeable
people. Anyhow, we both care this evening,
which is the principal thing ; and I want
to hear all about your book. What made you
publish it in two languages ? I think I like
the French version best."

So do I," said Claud. " For want of something
better to do, I used to scribble verses
from time to time, when I was wandering about
the world with the governor ; and I always
wrote in French, which is easier to me in composition
than English — I suppose because I
have learnt it more thoroughly. That simultaneous
publication in both languages was a
trick to attract the public. ' Par-ci, par-la ;
par Clement Gerard — ■ Here and There ; by
Clement Gerard — I thought it would puzzle
people, and make them wonder what nationality
the gifted author could own. So, when I began
to collect my stray songs and sonnets and whatnot,
I did them into English taut Men que mal,
with the result that you see. I am bound to
say that the public has not as yet displayed
as much agitation upon the subject as it might
have done. My Paris publishers tell me that
the first edition of the work is nothing like
exhausted ; and as for the London firm, I have
not dared so much as to ask them how many
copies of 'Here and There' remain on their
hands after three months of patient advertising.
They sent me, yesterday morning, the number
of the Saturday Review in which my immortal
work is summarily disposed of, among a host
of others, under the heading of 'Minor Notices

Minor Notices indeed ! isn't it scandalous ?
Of course I cut the page out, though ; and here
it is, if you would like to see it. ■ Mr. Clement
Gerard's little volume is one which it would
be cruel to criticise too severely. In an age
which witnesses the daily production of reams
of twaddle calling itself poetry, one can but be
thankful for such twaddle as will rhyme and
scan . Mr. Gerard has evidently bestowed
much pains upon his work ; and, if he will in
future devote as great a measure of his attention
to matter as he has in this instance done
to manner, he may — ' etc., etc. Not a word
about M. Clement Gerard, and his phenomenal
command utrinque Ungues, you see. Somehow
or other, that gun seems to have missed fire,
and I don't even get the credit of twaddling
agreeably for the benefit of two great nations."

Have you got a light about you ? " asked
Nina. And, having hastily perused the brief
notice by the aid of a wax match which Claud
struck — " Now," said she, " I am going to burn
the thing ; " and promptly suited the action to
the word.

There ! And I wish I could burn the fool
of a reviewer into the bargain ! I don't believe
he ever read the poems at all. Don't let us
waste another thought upon him. Why did
you never tell me before that you wrote ? "

I was too timid," answered Claud. " I did
not think it would interest you to hear that I
had published some tenth-rate rhymes."

How silly you are ! If there is a thing I
have a weakness for, it is genius ; and oddly
enough, I have never associated on anything
like terms of intimacy with a single literary
man, except Mr. Knowles, who sometimes
writes for magazines, I believe, and who is
anything but good company. I often meet
him at dinners in London ; and I have observed
that he is invariably silent and rather
shy until the champagne has been round twice J
after which he becomes dictatorial, snubs his
neighbours, and talks at such a pace that
nobody else has a chance to get a word in
edgeways."

(I am unwilling to break the continuity of
the narrative ; but really I cannot allow this
abominable accusation, which Claud was so kind
as to repeat to me subsequently, to pass without
a protest. It is as false as it is impertinent ;
and were it not that I have never taken sufficient
interest in Miss Flemyng to speak of her
otherwise than with perfect impartiality, I might
record certain speeches, made behind her back,
which — but no matter. I apologize for the
parenthesis, and proceed with my history, the

incidents of which I shall continue to report
with passionless accuracy.)

"Mr. Knowles doesn't count," Nina went on;
he would never be anything but an old bore,
even if he had written Paradise Lost or In
Memoriam. But you are the first author whom
I have known as a friend ; and I can't, for the
life of me, help feeling proud of you."

It is delightful to hear you say so. Only
you cannot really be proud of a friend who
publishes mere twaddle."

Nonsense ! You know quite well your
poems are not twaddle ; they are lovely. What:
does Mr. Gervis say about them ? "

The Governor ? Good gracious ! you don't
suppose that I should dare to show the book
to him, do you ? I can see him reading it,
convulsed with internal laughter, but preserving
an imperturbably grave face, and complimenting
me upon my unsuspected talent. No ; the
authorship of 'Here and There' is a secret
between you and me and the publishers ; and
please, I should like it to remain so. I shall
never write any more doggerel."

You will write some more poetry, I hope."

Claud shook his head. "It is a case of 11011
possumus. If I ever do publish anything again,
it shall be prose."

What kind of prose do you mean ? "

Oh, I don't know. A novel, perhaps, or a
play."

That would be rather nice," said Nina
thoughtfully. " I should enjoy being present
on the first nights of your pieces. Yes ; I
think I should like you to be a successful play-writer."


There was a tacit assumption of proprietorship
in this which Claud could not but feel to
be flattering. " Perhaps I might be successful,"
he said, " if you wanted me to be so. At all
events, with such an incentive, I would do the
very best I could."

Miss Flemyng laughed under her breath ;
and Claud, - in a slightly aggrieved voice, inquired
the cause of her merriment.

Oh, you will laugh too some day," she
answered. " Hadn't we better be going back
to tea now ? "

Mentally recapitulating this conversation,
some hours later, in the solitude of his chamber,
Claud was vexed by many misgivings. He
was not sure that the Saturday Reviewer's
estimate of " Here and There " was an unjust
one ; he was not sure that he had done wisely
in divulging his secret; he was disposed to
think that he had talked a great deal too much

about his own affairs in the course of the

evening.

o

And further, thinks I to myself, I'll be shot
If I know whether Nina adores me or not,"

concluded the poet, paraphrasing Mr. Locker,
as he blew out his candle, and crop into bed.

END OF VOL. 1.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, LONDON AND Eccles.

-y^^.^^^^w^m?^''' .

W. E. NORRIS,

AUTHOR OF " MADEMOISELLE DE MERSAC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:

SMITH, ELDER & CO., 15, WATERLOO PLACE.

1881.

(All rights reserved.)

CONTENTS OF VOL. II

I. Two Dialogues . . . i

II. Mr. Fleming's Dahlias . . 20

III. A Racecourse and a Cathedral . 48

IV. Friendly Warnings . . 79

V. The Days that are no more . . 102

VI. Mr. Gervis's Views . . 121

VII. Mina's Views . . . 141

VIII. Perversity . . . 169

IX. Port Ste. Marie . . . 191

X. A Pleasant Party . . 220

XL Beachborough Perplexed . . 250

XII. The Rue amsterdam and the Boulevard
Malesherbes . . 273

XIII. Private Criticism . . . 293

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/matrimony02norr

CHAPTER I.

TWO DIALOGUES.

If, in the course of the interview just described,
Claud and Miss Flemyng had turned their eyes
towards the hill-top behind them, Instead of
alternately studying one another's faces and
the ground, they would have seen, standing
out In bold relief against the sky, two dark
figures, whose relative attitudes corresponded
exactly to their own. For the lawns and
shrubberies that encircle Southlands abound
in winding walks ; and although, when young
men and maidens saunter out by twos in the
gloaming, all paths are likely, figuratively speaking,
to lead towards the same point, It is well
for the comfort of those concerned that they
need not Invariably do so In a literal sense.

VOL. II. B

It was probably a firm conviction of this
truth that caused Freddy Croft to set his face
in a northerly direction, on perceiving whither
the couple which had got the start of him was
bound. It was repugnant to his feelings to
climb a steep hill immediately after dinner ;
but of two evils this was so plainly the less
that he accepted it cheerfully, saying —

Do you mind which way we go, Miss
Gervis ? If it is quite the same thing to you,
I should like to try and get a whiff of fresh air
up there behind the house. It is rather stifling
down below, don't you think ? "

Genevieve signified that it was quite the
same thing to her ; and accordingly they toiled
up a series of irregular zigzags, wasting little
breath in speech, until they reached the boundary
of the pleasure-grounds, beyond which stretched
broad fields of wheat and oats and barley that
swayed and rustled, as the light wind from the
moors swept over them.

Here Genevieve paused, and resting her
arms upon the paling, fell into much the same
posture as that in which Miss Flemyng was
standing, some hundred feet below ; while
Freddy, whose native graces were hardly equal
to Claud's, perched himself upon the barrier
and whistled softly, swinging his legs to and fro.

Rather a bore my getting swamped this
afternoon," he began presently, by way of starting
the conversation. " I can't think how I
managed to do such an idiotic thing. Didn't
you all laugh when you saw me floundering
about in the water ? "

I did not hear any one laugh," answered
Genevieve. '' I thought you were going to be
drowned."

"No fear. I didn't care a farthing about
losing the race — though I do wish that 
chap hadn't won it — but it was rather
hard lines to be done out of my drive home
with you."

Genevieve did not respond. She seemed to
be a little out of spirits ; and Freddy, watching
her, as she abstractedly pulled tufts of moss and
lichen from the bar of the wooden fence on
which she was leaning, had his doubts as to
whether she was listening to him at all.

You must have taken it easy up the hill,"
he resumed. '' I had time to change all my
clothes, and to walk down nearly as far as the
lodge to meet you, before you appeared."

Had you ? "

Yes ; but it wasn't much good, after all,
was it ? As soon as I saw you had got another
passenger on board I retired gracefully among
the trees. You didn't see me, did you ? "

*' No," answered Genevieve. '' I am sorry
you had the walk for nothing."

Ah, so was I sorry ; but I wasn't surprised.
Luck always goes in runs, and this doesn't
seem to have been my day, somehow. Where
did you pick up Mister Rags ? "

Please don't say disagreeable things about
him," pleaded Genevieve. '' I can't bear to hear
people sneered at because they are poor and
shabby ; and it is not like you to notice such
things. How many of the best men that ever
lived have often been in want of money ! "

I beg your pardon," said Freddy humbly.
*' I had not the least intention of saying anything
offensive about him, and I dare say he is
a — a very good fellow, when you come to know
him. Of course, any friend of yours "

"He is not my friend. I never saw him
before to-day : and I am not sure that I like
him particularly. Only it vexed me that everybody
should despise him just because he wore
a shabby coat."

Indeed I did not despise him," Freddy
declared.

"Well, you would not take any notice of
him ; and all the others looked at him as if
they thought he wanted to pick their pockets.
And yet, even if he had been a professional

thief, they ought not to have let him see that
he was suspected. At least, that Is my idea of
hospitality. I don't know whether It Is yours."

The worldly-wise Freddy replied that Miss
Gervis was too generous. Of course every
man was innocent until he was proved guilty,
and all that sort of thing ; but at the same time,
there were lots of sharps about, and if one
didn't keep one's eyes open, one was safe to
be done, you know. He added, somewhat Inconsequently,
that these remarks were not
intended to bear a personal application.

'' If I believed a man to be what you call a
sharp,' I would not ask him to dine with me,"
said Genevieve ; " but, if I had asked a man
to dinner, I should think that I was insulting
my guests, as well as him, by showing him that
I took him for a sharp."

Oh, I see," said Freddy, " you mean what
your father said. The old gentleman did give
him one or two nasty ones, certainly. At least,
I suppose he did. I didn't understand what it
was all. about myself; only I saw the fellow
wriggling and looking uncomfortable. However,
you need not be unhappy about it ; there's
no harm done. Mr. Gervis began to talk to
old Rags — I beg your pardon ; M. HIrsch, I
mean — directly you had gone out of the room ;

and when we left them they were getting on
like a house on fire."

'' Do you think," asked Genevieve suddenly,
that it is a very dreadful thing to dislike one's
own father ? But of course it must be. It is
horrible and wicked, and against nature ; and
yet "

'' Oh, I don't think so at all," said Freddy
serenely. " If a man is a brute, he must take
the consequences."

'' He is not quite that."

What, Mr. Gervis ? Oh, of course not ; I
did not mean him. But some fellows' governors
are regular brutes ; no other word for them.
There's a man I know in the Guards — an
awfully good fellow — whose father is worth
half a million, if he's worth a penny. Well,
you'd hardly believe it, but that old ruffian
allows his son — an eldest son, mind you — three
hundred a year besides his pay ; and a few
months ago, what does he do but sticks a notice
in the papers saying he won't be responsible for
any debts poor Jack may contract ! Now an
old screw like that is bound to be hated. Can't
expect anything else, you know."

Here was a strange kind of confidant for
Miss Gervis, whom her few intimates were
wont to accuse of excessive reticence, to have

chosen ; but in the lives of all men and women
there are moments in which sympathy seems
almost a necessity ; and a combination of circumstances,
which it would be tedious, and
perhaps superfluous, to enumerate, had now
brought such a moment to our heroine. It
must be remembered, too, that Freddy had, in
her estimation, shown himself to be a true and
disinterested friend, and that reserved natures
seldom bestow their confidence by halves.
She passed by his irrelevant reference to the
ill-used guardsman, and went on, following her
own line of thought :

"It is my fault, I suppose, that we have
never got on together. Claud hits it off with
him very well, though he sees all the things
that I see and knows all that I know — and
more, perhaps. Claud makes allowances ; I
can't. I must either like people very much
or dislike them very much ; and I am afraid
it makes no difference whatever to me whether
they are my relations or not. In those whom
I love I believe I could pardon anything — any
cruelty, or wickedness, or neglect — it would not
make me change ; but it is not in me to love
any one from a sense of duty ; and if I do not
love, I — do the reverse."

That is just the character of all others that

I would have myself, if I could choose," cried
Freddy with enthusiasm.

No," answered Genevieve, rather sadly, " I
don't think anybody would choose to be like
that ; only perhaps it may be some excuse forme
that one has no choice in the matter. If
my father were ill, and I could nurse him, or
if he were in any trouble, and I could help him,
I would do it because he is my father ; but to
be fond of him because he is my father — no ;.
that is impossible."

Has he been treating you unkindly ? "
Freddy asked, sliding off the paling on to his
feet, and looking quite fierce at the bare idea
of such atrocity.

'' No ; he is never unkind to me ; he is even
kind, after a fashion, though I don't think it
would distress him in the least if I were to die
to-night. But there are others to whom he is
not only unkind, but positively cruel. I don't
know whether you will understand what I
mean ; but you know how cruel children often
are. Claud and I used to torture our dogs in
all kinds of ways ; and I remember our once
putting a cat in walnut-shells and laughing till
the tears ran down our cheeks at the absurd
way the poor thing floundered about on the
polished pa7^^neL"

'' I have always delighted in seeing a pig
killed myself," interjected Freddy meditatively.

'ewe got into great trouble about the cat.
I daresay we were thoughtless, heartless little
wretches in many ways ; but I know that when
some friends took us to see those horrible
serpents at the Jardin des Plantes fed upon
live birds and rabbits, we could not bear it,
and we both ran away, crying as if our hearts
would break. There was one boy who stayed,
and saw it all. I abhorred that boy ever afterwards.
He is a man now, and I abhor him
still."

I think I see what you mean," said Freddy,
stroking his fair moustache reflectively. 'rit
makes a lot of difference whether a fellow Is
cruel without meaning it, or in the way of sport,
and that, or whether he is cruel because he
likes it."

Yes ; It is a horrible thing to enjoy the
sight of suffering. So far as the hatefulness
of the enjoyment is concerned, I can't see that
it matters much whether the pain is bodily or
mental, or even whether the amount of it is
great or small. It seems to me that there is
not much to choose between a boy who sticks
pins through living butterflies, for the pleasure
of watching their dying struggles, and a man

whose chief amusement is to hurt people's
feelings or to make them look ridiculous. Only
the boy is whipped and sent to bed, whereas
the man is admired and applauded as a wit."

'' But don't you think," began Freddy, with
some hesitation — for he was wavering between
a strong habitual bias in favour of giving the
devil his due and an equally strong disinclination
to connect his feminine ideal with the
remotest suspicion of injustice — '* don't you
think that you are a little bit hard upon Mr.
Gervis ? I mean to say, things might hurt
your feelings, you know, which wouldn't trouble
other people for a moment. Some fellows
have such precious thick hides ! Look at me,
for instance. He might go on chaffing, if it
amused him, till all was blue, and I shouldn't
care a rap."

'' That is partly because you are too kindhearted
yourself to believe that any one could
really mean to vex you," said Genevieve,
laughing a little, '' and partly because he hasn't
it in his power to hurt you seriously. If you
where in the position of that poor man whom
he is tormenting at this moment you would
understand him better. But I know what you
must think of me for saying all this ; and
you are quite right. There are things which

ought never to be said, whether they are true
or not."

Upon this Freddy took the opportunity of
stating his opinion of Miss Gervis with much
warmth and a free use of superlatives ; and so
the dialogue took a turn more interesting to the
speakers, but less so, perhaps, to the outer
world. The reader s heart is, in all probability,
harder than Genevieve's, and is not likely to
suffer any very severe pangs if he is asked to
return for a few minutes to the dining-room,
and to look on at the supposed martyrdom of
M. Hirsch.

No sooner had Mr. Flemyngs bulky form
disappeared through the glass doors that
opened upon the terrace than that gentleman
drew his chair a little closer to his host's, and
pouring out a glass of claret for himself with a
mixture of bravado and nervousness, proceeded
straight to business.

'you will understand, Mr. Gervis," he began,
"that I should not have been so bold as to
make my way into your house unless I had had
a communication to make to you."

Gervis inclined his head slightly.

Sir, I will be frank with you ; I will conceal
nothing."

'' Thank you very much," said Mr. Gervis
sweetly. " May I offer you a cigarette ? "

The stranger accepted the proffered civility,
lighted his cigarette with a rather shaky hand,
and resumed :

I want money ; I prefer to say so at once.
You will perhaps think me a blackguard "

A slight gesture of Mr. Gervis's hand seemed
to express polite acquiescence.

'' Mon Dieu ! it is not I who shall contradict
you ; but when one is reduced to starvation,
and when one has information which is worth
money, one does not give it away. You will
have guessed at once that what I have to say
refers to the Princess Ouranoff — your wife.
Ah, sir, that woman has treated me abominably
! — horribly ! For all these years I have
been her friend ; I would have been her friend
still — yes ! her friend, sir, and not yours ; for
it has been my weakness to sacrifice duty to
compassion — but the time has now come when I
can no longer be silent. Only three days ago I
arrived from South America. I landed at
Southampton with only three shillings in my
pocket ; I have walked from thence to this
place, living on crusts of bread, sleeping in
barns — in ditches — where I could ; and now,
what do I find ? That she has gone away ;
that she is in France, amusing herself with her
gay friends ; that she has not so much as left

a message for me ; that she is out of my reach.
I was hungry ; I was half-dead with fatigue ; I
felt all my strength leave me — what could
I do?"

The man's voice broke ; and he paused for a
moment, with an emotion which appeared to be
genuine enough.

*' M. Hirsch," said Gervis, 'you distress me.
Pray help yourself. And so the Princess refused
to pay any more black-mail ? "

For an instant the expression of M. Hirsch's
face changed. A vicious look showed itself
about the corners of his mouth and a gleam
shot from between his blinking eyelids. He
took some more claret, however, and continued
:

You put things in plain language, Mr.
Gervis. After all, why not ? y^aime autant fa.
On my side, I will avail myself of the same
privilege. I may tell you that the story of your
married life is no secret to me. I know that
for years past you have only been the husband
of the Princess Ouranoff in name. I know that
you have had many suspicions, but no proofs.
I know that you would give much to be rid,
once and for all, of the woman who has deceived
and disgraced you. Is it not so ? "

Gervis laid his head on one side, and surveyed

his Interlocutor with a certain pensive
curiosity, but said nothing.

Now," proceeded M. HIrsch, taking silence
for consent, "supposing that I had it in my
power to insure you absolute freedom from her
as soon as you please ? "

'how much," Inquired Gervis in his blandest
tones, " how much, my dear sir, did you think
of asking for this priceless boon ? "

Twenty thousand pounds sterling — neither
more nor less," answered the other firmly. " It
is a large sum ; but you are a rich man ; and
liberty is worth that, and more than that, to
you. Moreover, you would actually economize
by the transaction, I believe ; for what is the
interest of twenty thousand pounds at five percent
? A mere thousand a year, is it not ? I
shall be much surprised to hear that the Princess
Ouranoff has not cost you more than that,
beyond her private fortune, for some years
past."

*' M. HIrsch, It Is evident that I can keep
nothing back from you ; and really your moderation
astonishes me. But has it not occurred
to you that, if the conclusive evidence which
you hint at exists, I might possibly obtain it
without your aid, and so save my twenty
thousand ? "

Impossible, Mr. Gervis. You may take it
as absolutely certain that unless you regain
your liberty through me, you will never regain
It at all. I am the only man living who holds
the requisite proofs. For the rest, you have
but to remember how long it is that you have
been searching high and low In vain for what
you want in order to see that this is not a casein
which detectives and spies can be of any
service to you."

Too true ! And you really will not take
less than twenty thousand pounds ? "

Sir, I have said it. I am a man of my
word. See now, Mr. Gervis, I will place
myself in your hands without reserve. With
half a dozen words I will undertake to convince
you of the truth of my statement ; I will rely
upon your honour then to hand me a cheque, a
promissory note, or what you will, for the
money ; and In a few weeks' time, at furthest,
proofs which no court of law could withstand
for one moment shall be in your hands. Is ita
bargain ? "

"Ah well, M. Hirsch," said Gervis, throwing
the end of his cigarette out of the window,
"you are a shocking rascal, I am afraid; but
your impudence has afforded me some little
amusement. Will you have any more wine, or
shall wee join the ladies now ? "

What is the meaning of this ? Please to
speak plainly, sir," returned the other in a
hoarse voice. His eyelids had stopped blinking;
two vertical lines had appeared on his
retreating forehead ; his pointed chin was
slightly thrust forward. He presented altogether
as striking a type of the born assassin
as any physiognomist could wish to study.

'' Why, the meaning of it, my good creature,"
replied Mr. Gervis, " is simply that your little
plan has failed. In forming it, you appear to
have forgotten, or to have been ignorant of,
two trifling circumstances — firstly, that you were
speaking to a gentleman, and secondly, that
you were not speaking to an absolute fool. I
am not going to say anything indignant about
your attacks upon the character of an absent
lady — still less about the flattering estimate
which you seem to have formed of my own
morality. I very rarely allow myself to be
angry — never with persons of your description.
You will admit that it would be hardly worth
my while. What I should have thought might
have been patent to you is that I should never
believe, or pay for, a single word that you
uttered, whether supported by what you call
proof or not. I remember you quite well at
Wiesbaden, where you entered yourself in the

visitors' book at the hotel under I forget what
Russian name engine" in off or eff. Doubtless
it was not your own — if that signified. Do you
know, M. Hirsch, that the only hopeful symptom
I have observed in your case is that you are by
no means an accomplished liar."

The languid drawl with which these sentences
were enunciated more than doubled their insulting
significance. The stranger, whose face had
turned as white as the table-cloth before him,
lost all control over his passion. Trembling,
and muttering a curse, he leapt to his feet, and
caught up a knife that lay beside his plate.

The next instant, his right arm was thrown
up above his head and held there powerless ina
firm grasp, while the knife was jerked out
of his hand on to the floor. Mr. Gervis let
him go at once, and fell back in his chair,
laughing heartily.

M. Hirsch, you are the most comical ruffian
I ever encountered. Are you aware that you
have been threatening my life with a dessert-knife
? Never mind ; your intentions were
good ; and if I did not happen to be tolerably
strong in the wrists still, in spite of my age, I
dare say you might have startled me. As it is,
I have to thank you for a dramatic finish to a
most entertaining evening."

VOL. II. C

The man was cowed — as much, perhaps, by
the ridicule of his host as by the consciousness
that he was too physically weak to be formidable
to anybody. " Will you allow me," he
asked humbly, " to say a few more words upon
the subject which "

Thank you, no," answered Mr. Gervis.
'' On the contrary, if you so much as allude to it
again, I shall ring the bell, and tell the servants
to turn you out at the front door."

'that shall not be necessary," said M. Hirsch,
rising. " You are a hard man, Mr. Gervis ; but
you are not so clever as you think yourself. I
wish you good evening."

He had his hand upon the door-handle when
Mr. Gervis stopped him. " Wait one moment,
M. Hirsch. Where do you propose to sleep
to-night ? "

The man shrugged his shoulders silently.

Please to sit down. I will be with you
again directly.

Mr. Gervis left the room, and presently returned,
with his slow, weary step, holding a
bundle of bank-notes in his hand. " Here are
fifty pounds," said he ; " it is all the spare cash
I have by me. Rascality, M. Hirsch, arises
mainly out of adverse circumstances. The
human family is composed of members of various

shades and colours ; and with a slight effort I
find that I can recognize in you an erring
brother. With this money you will at least be
able to find your way to the Princess, whom you
will no doubt bully for more. I am sorry I
can't see my way to protecting her from you. I
am sorry, also, that I cannot offer you a bed ;
but conventionality must be respected up to a
certain point. Good-bye. Don't let me see
you again, please."

M. Hirsch looked at Gervis and looked at
the notes. Necessity has no law. He took
them, without a word of acknowledgment, and
went away.

*' Poor devil ! " mused Gervis aloud, lighting
another cigarette, as he heard the hall-door
slam behind his late visitor. " I dare say he
knows something. Or was it only the old story
perhaps ? To think of his taking up a silver
knife to me — ha, ha, ha! I wonder now
whether, if I had been in his place, I should
have chosen to accept that money or starve.
Dear me, what a farce it all is, to be sure ! "

CHAPTER II.

MR. Fleming's dahlias.

A BACHELOR friend of mine, who was once
highly susceptible to feminine charms, but has
now reached a period of life at which he can
view the agitations of bygone days In the
calm light of reason, and analyze them with
a mixture of self-pity and self-complacency, Is
fond of broaching a theory to the effect that
there Is some Intimate connection between the
progress of the tender passion and the course
of the seasons. It has Invariably been so, he
says. In his own case. Upon each occasion
he has felt the first stirrings of his heart in
the spring ; the summer has seen him falling
more and more deeply in love ; September
and the partridges have brought him the first
faint symptoms of a diminution of the fever;
with October a perceptible coolness has set in ;
and he has been quite his own man again at

the commencement of the hunting season.
Warned by repeated experiences of this nature,
he has learnt, in all recent attacks, what to
expect ; and recognizing the approach of the
familiar malady, has possessed his soul in
patience, knowing full well that, with a little
self-command, he will escape deathless, and
live to see his illusions slowly waning with the
waning of the year.

According to this authority, the month of
August is the time when a prudent man should
take most heed to his ways. It is a time of
holiday-making for some, of idleness for nearly
all ; a time in which the common pursuits of
men are very generally also those of women ;
a time of long days and warm, dry evenings.
If this dangerous moment be but safely tided
over, says my friend, there is good hope of the
sufferer's recovery ; and he professes to have
observed that more engagements are announced
in the course of the month in question than
during any other four weeks of the year. My
own experience does not enable me to endorse
my friend's theory at all points ; but I am
inclined to go with him in that part of it which
refers to the perils of August — and more
especially of a fine August.

Now it so fell out that the summer which

witnessed the return of the Gervis family to-england
was an exceptional one. Day after
day the sun shone down In his strength upon
woodland and meadow and sea ; what rain
there was fell In short, sharp thunder-showers,,
and passed away ; the peaches ripened a good
fortnight before their time ; on either side of
the narrow field-paths the corn rose above
a man's head ; the nights were starry and still ;
and through it all Claud walked, as In a fool's
paradise, vaguely rejoicing in the beauty of life,
but seeing no object with any distinctness, save
the graceful figure of Nina Flemyng.

A man who lives In a fool's paradise — by
which, I take it, is meant an individual who,
for the time being, has lost his bearings, and
neither knows nor cares whither the sequence
of events may be hurrying him — Is doubtless,
from the terms of the proposition, a fool. Yet,
since some such failure of mental stability maybe
regarded as an almost necessary condition of
love, and as the obvious deduction that all
lovers must be fools is one which will hardly
meet with universal acceptance, no special
apology on this score seems needful on behalf
of Claud, who Indeed was by no means one
of that class of persons which. In a general
way, allows itself to be ruled by circumstances
rather than be at the pains of ruling them.

If he had lacked some one definite programme
in Hfe, the fault had not been his, but
his father's, who, while debarring him from the
exercise of a profession, had omitted to suggest
to him any other outlet for surplus energy ; but
certain objects he had set before himself, and
had worked up to patiently— such as the establishment
of a home for his erratic father in
England, the closing of the chronic family
breach, and the earning of a name for himself
by means of literature. For all these things
he had laboured steadily, devoting himself to
the last of them not so much because he felt
any pressing vocation thereto as because it had
appeared to him that he had no alternative
between achieving success with his pen and
existing as a mere loafer upon the face of the
earth. Then fate had brought the course of
his life into contact with that of Nina Flemyng ;
her fascinations had made a more or less easy
conquest of his heart ; and in regard to this
matter it must be confessed that definiteness of
aim had deserted him. Some people there are,
no doubt, who, after the first discovery that
their affections are engaged, begin with laudable
prudence to forecast results, and seeing
the altar and the domestic hearth looming
sternly at the end of the pleasant path of

courtship, ask themselves whether they shall
advance or retreat while the option yet rests
with them ; but these have seldom a strain of
southern blood in their veins. Claud vexed
himself with no such dispassionate calculations.
Matrimony was to him at most a vague possibility
; a blissful dream which it would be
almost a profanation to associate with considerations
so common-place as settlements,
furniture, trousseaux, and the like. The essential
matter was that Nina had become
dearer to him than the whole world, and that
his happiness must henceforth be made or
marred by her alone.

Naturally, therefore, he spent a great part of
his time at the Moated House, where his reception
varied with the changing moods of its
capricious young mistress, but where he was in
any case sure of one unaffected welcome ; for
Mr. Flemyng had taken a fancy to the young
fellow — as fathers of families not unfrequently
do to young fellows of good expectations — and
would often beg him to consider himself as in
all respects one of the family, and to remember
that there was a vacant place ready for him at
the dinner-table whenever it might suit him to
occupy it. A general invitation is by common
repute equivalent to no invitation ; but Claud

did not take this narrow view of Mr. Flemyng's
proffered hospitality, nor was he slow in finding
one pretext or another for availing himself of
it. Truth to tell, he dined, in those days,
nearly as often at the Moated House as at
Southlands, no man hindering him ; for Mr.
Gervis made it a rule never to remark upon the
absence of an inmate of his household, or to
put any of those embarrassing questions with
which some injudicious parents persist in harassing
their adult offspring.

Invading Mr. Flemyng's premises thus informally,
one evening shortly after the Beach-borough
regatta day, Claud found his entertainer
in a state of unwonted perturbation and
excitement. The worthy gentleman's cheeks
were flushed ; his white hair, ordinarily so
smoothly brushed, was ruffled ; he was pacing
to and fro with gestures indicative of anything
but philosophic composure.

'' An abominable outrage has been committed
! " cried he, too eager to communicate
the dreadful news to waste any time in preliminary
forms of greeting. " Five-and-twenty
years have I sat upon the bench as one of the
justices of the peace for this county, and I have
no hesitation in saying that for wanton, dastardly
brutality, for diabolical ingenuity of conception

and execution, this case is without a
parallel in my experience. That I am myself
the victim of this atrocious piece of wickedness
is a minor matter : I put that consideration
away from me. But this I will say, that a
neighbourhood in which such deeds can be perpetrated
is an immoral neighbourhood, a neighbourhood
which needs to be recalled to its
senses by the strong arm of the law, and that
I heartily regret that the powers intrusted tous
do not authorize me to condemn the offender
to — to corporal chastisement."

When caught," added Nina, rather unfeelingly.


Caught ! If we had a constabulary worthy
of the name he would have been in custody by
now. If I had been informed of the facts
before I left the house this morning. Instead of
having been, most improperly, kept in ignorance
of them until an hour ago, it is more than probable
that I should have been able to trace the
fellow myself But of course the footprints,
which as evidence would have been simply
invaluable, are carefully raked out before I am
told. Persons who are guilty of such acts of
stupidity are, to all intents and purposes, /r^r-
tickles criminis''

'' What in the world has happened ? " asked
Claud.

"Why, some miscreant has stolen into my
garden in the dead of the night, and has utterly
destroyed the best part of my dahlias."

Claud was ill-advised enough to murmur, '' Is
that all ? "

'' All! Upon my word ! Well, really "

For once Mr. Flemyng's feelings were too
deeply stirred to find relief in declamation. He
could only snort, and wave his hands speechlessly,
as if calling upon the higher powers to
bear witness to the callousness of man.

Nina made a grimace at Claud, who hastened
to apologize, explaining that he had feared that
some more serious loss of property had befallen
his friends ; but Mr. Flemyng was not to be
pacified all at once. The intrinsic value of the
flowers was not, he confessed, very great, if
measured by the mere vulgar standard of
market prices ; though, to be sure, they had not
been brought to their late state of perfection
without some considerable outlay. But their
worth as evidences of taste and skill, their
worth, as a harmonious combination of colours,
in delighting the eyes and elevating the minds
of all beholders — their aesthetic worth, in short,
if Mr. Flemyng made himself understood — this
was something altogether beyond the scope of
appraisement. Nevertheless, he went on to

say, it was not so much the damage done as the
manner in which it had been done that made
his blood boil. Theft, Mr. Flemyng was
pleased to say, that he could understand.
Theft, though necessarily punishable by the
laws which hold society together, was an offence
for which the philosophic mind could readily
conceive of sundry palliations. But this was
no case of theft. The flowers, some broken off
their stems, some torn up by their roots, had
been found scattered in different parts of the
garden. The inference was clear : an enemy
had done this thing.

Now I ask you," cried Mr. Flemyng, in
conclusion, " what pretext have I ever given to
any man, woman, or child in the county for
behaving to me in such a disgraceful way ?
Whom have I injured ? To whom have I not
been, so far as in me lay, a benefactor ? Cana
single instance of harshness or injustice, public
or private, be brought against me ? "

With the irritability of a vain man, Mr.
Flemyng went on putting this question in
various forms for the next hour and a half.
There could clearly be only one answer to it ;
but it was evident that there existed somewhere
a perverse being who, if he could have been
heard, would not have returned that true

answer ; and therein lay the sting. Mr.
Flemyng's whole thinking power was so saturated
with self-approbation, he had so firm
and full a belief in himself as not only a wise
but a beneficent creature, that any proof of
the ill-will of his fellow-men shocked as much
as it surprised him. The bare idea that such
depravity could be was enough — not indeed to
take away his appetite ; for that was probably
more than any calamity could achieve — but to
considerably mar his gratification of it ; and
thus it fell out that he quarrelled with his
dinner, and made things very unpleasant for
the attendant butler and footboy in the parentheses
of an unending oration.

Claud, it is scarcely necessary to say, felt no
great interest in Mr. Flemyng or his dahlias ;
but he had no objection at all to the philosopher's
rolling periods, under cover of which, as
the experience of many a previous evening had
taught him, two persons who understood one
another could interchange looks and murmured
words quite satisfactorily.

So they three sat in the old oak-panelled
dining-room, while the twilight deepened into
darkness, and were content after their several
fashions ; and doubtless the butler, surveying
them all with the calm eye of an outsider.

derived some amusement from the various descriptions
of folly exhibited by his superiors.
''No fool like a sold fool!" — such was his
subsequent criticism upon the head of the
establishment ; and as for the remarks which
he thought fit to Indulge In with regard to his
mistress, they were so wanting in proper respect
that they shall not be recorded here.

Like many other good men, Mr. Flemyng was
subject to an invincible and habitual drowsiness
after dinner. Claud and Nina left him slumbering
peacefully In the library, and betook themselves
to that retired spot under the cedar-tree
where, some weeks before, their acquaintance
lead taken so prompt a stride towards intimacy.
It was a still, moonlight night, and the silence
which comes with darkness was broken only by
an occasional echo of laughter from the distant
servants' hall, or when the harsh cry of a
night-jar arose from the shrubbery behind the
house.

Have you ever an Intense longing to be
somebody else ?" asked Nina suddenly.

"Well, no," answered Claud, '' I don't think
so. Have you ? "

Yes ; nearly always. At the present
moment, for instance, I would give anything
to be you'*

'' You would make a poor exchange there,"
Claud remarked. "Why should you wish for
such a thing ? "

'' Why ? Because I suspect that you are
thoroughly enjoying yourself. Because I believe
that you are as nearly as possible happy
and pleased with life, sitting here. The difference
between us is that I am not."

Claud said he was very sorry to hear it.
Should he go away ?

*' Don't be idiotic. You know quite well that
I like talking to you ; or, if you did not know
it before, you are welcome to the information
now. You remember how I shocked you, sometime
ago, by telling you that flirtation was one
of my enjoyments ; and if we are not flirting
now, we are at all events doing what everybody
calls flirting; which is a pleasant enough way
of passing the time, as far as it goes. Only
please abstain from saying pretty things and
talking down to my level ; otherwise you might
as well be that plunger from Lynchester barracks,
whose name I have forgotten — or anybody
else. Don't you see that I am trying
to rise to what papa calls ' an elevated strain
of thought ? ' I am contemplating life as a
whole ; and that is why I say I should like to
be you."

'' I don't see why my life as a whole should
seem better worth having than yours," said
Claud.

Nonsense ! What can my life be ? — what
can any woman's life be ? Even with the very
best of luck — such as marrying a duke with
;^300,ooo a year — there would be nothing to
look forward to but year after year of monotony.
But your life is your own to do what you like
with. With your talents, you will soon make
yourself famous ; and as you have money and
good looks and a tolerably pleasant manner
into the bargain, there will be nothing to prevent
you going out as much as you please in
London and staying in the best houses in the
country. And if, some morning, you wake up
and discover that that sort of thing is becoming
a great bore — as I know I should in your place
all you have to do is to start off for Texas to
shoot buffaloes, or for India to stick pigs, or
to the Arctic regions to look for the North
Pole. And then, as soon as you have had
enough of barbarism, you can come back to
civilization again, and go in for whatever may
happen to take your fancy at the time. Oh
yes ; men have the best of the game always
and in everything."

'' Well, perhaps," Claud admitted ; '' but the

fact of being a man does not necessarily Imply
such absolute freedom ; and as for me, I don't
know that I care very much about absolute
freedom, after all. I should not like to have
no ties ; and certainly I should be sorry to
break those that keep me here."

'' I know. I began by saying that I envied
you because you were contented. Things as
they are at present satisfy you. You ask for
nothing better than to live like this, sailing,
fishing, pawning, playing cricket and lawn-tennis
all day, dining here in a quiet sort of
way, and perhaps scribbling a few lines before
you go to bed. Small blame to you ! — It isn't
a bad kind of life for summer weather ; and
when you weary of It, you can march on, and
forget it."

I think you know that I am not likely to
forget these last weeks," said Claud ; '' and as
for the life, I could never weary of it."

What ? do you mean to say that you would
like to devote the remainder of your days to
playing cricket and lawn-tennis, and catching
whiting-pouts, and the rest of it ? "

This certainly had not been Claud's meaning.
What he had Intended to Imply was that he
could never weary of Nina Flemyng ; but the
time seemed hardly ripe as yet for the express

II. D

son in plain words of such a sentiment ; or
rather he exaggerated the probable effect of it,
being little versed in women's ways, and without
suspicion that his companion had listened
to many much warmer protestations and had
learnt to estimate them at their proper value.
Claud, in fact, was still very young, and for all
his knowledge of the world in a geographical
sense, was barely beginning to make acquaintance
with it socially. So all he said was : —

I don't want to be alway's idle, of course.
No doubt I should tire of idleness, if that is
what you mean. But I don't think you do
mean only that when you talk as you are doing
to-night. Your idea seems to be that, sooner
or later, one must tire of everything — friends
and all."

Exactly : that is just my idea. There is
only one thing on earth, I fancy, that never
palls ; and that is work. Man was born to
labour and sorrow, you know ; only the labour
and the sorrow don't go together. You men,
whatever you may say, love work. If sou
have a profession, you think about it a great
deal more than about anything else ; and if you
haven't, you make some other occupation for
yourselves ; and that is your life. All the rest
is mere interlude and by-play. But we women

at least, nine out of every ten of us — have no
occupation ; for I don't call housekeeping and
looking after troublesome brats an occupation ;
and so we have to fall back upon excitement asa
pis-aller. There is a mild excitement in
making a man fancy himself desperately in love
with you for a few weeks or months."

Have you often done that ? " Claud asked,
in a somewhat tremulous voice.

Three or four times," answered Nina coolly.
'' Dreadful, isn't it ? "

'' It is a rather cruel form of sport, I think."

*' Not in the least, I assure you. Broken
hearts are things of the past, if there ever were
such things at all ; and I haven't a doubt but
that, If you could make a canvass of all the
middle-aged gentlemen in the world, you would
find forty-nine grateful rejected ones for one
who thanked Heaven that he had been
accepted."

'' Well, say there was one in fifty capable of
loving once and for always. What if you
happened to meet with that one."

Ah, if I did ! But how should I know him ?
He wouldn't have himself labelled, I suppose.
You see, the unfortunate part of it is that everyone,
as soon as he falls in love, thinks it is for
the first and only time."

You might test him in a thousand ways, as
I dare say you know better than I do. And
don't you think, Miss Flemyng — perhaps it is
rather presumptuous in me to suggest it — but
don't you think that it is just possible that, some
day, while you were amusing yourself by playing
with some one else's heart, you might chance to
lose your own ? "

''Oh yes ; taut v a la crucis a V eat — There is
that chance upon the cards ; and it adds to the
excitement. All the same, I can't fancy myself
in the part of a love-lorn maiden. I like change
and amusement and fine clothes — all the things
that frivolous people like, in short : I am afraid
I should never make a good pendant for the
ideal young man. And yet — "

The last two monosyllables fell from the
speaker's lips with a certain dreamy and
caressing intonation. And indeed throughout
this interview Miss Flemyng's voice had seemed
to Claud's ear to belie in some measure the
hardness of her words.

I wish — " he began. But to what desire he
was about to give utterance will never be
known; for Nina arrested him suddenly by
laying her hand on his arm.

'' Hush ! " she whispered. *' Didn't you hear
something ? "

Claud listened. For a moment or two there
was profound stillness. Then he fancied he
could detect a faint rustling somewhere far away
in the darkness. Then came distinctly a snapping,
tearing sound ; and he knew at once what
was going on. " By jove ! " he exclaimed, '' it
is that fellow at the dahlias again."

"Oh, what fun!" cried Nina, starting to her
feet. '' Now we shall catch him. You go that
way, and I will go this. He can't escape."

No, no," whispered Claud ; " you must not
think of such a thing. How could you stop a
man ? Stay where you are, and keep quite
quiet. I'll undertake to hold him ; and if I call,
you can alarm the house. But please on no
account do anything until you hear me call.
Will you promise me that ? "

*' All right," answered Nina, sitting down
again. " Don't be longer than you can help,
though."

A natural feminine tremor prompted her to
add, as an afterthought, " And take care of
yourself."

But Claud was already out of earshot, and so
missed this last injunction. He stole noiselessly
across the turf towards the famous dahlia-beds,
taking care to keep between them and the
bridge, so as to anticipate the chance of a dash

for escape In that direction. The moat, which
had lost all definiteness of outline on the side of
the park, and sloped outwards in an irregular
grassy bank, was still represented on the garden
side by ancient brick-work, forming a clear drop
of ten feet or more — an awkward place to run
for at night, as Claud thought with inward
satisfaction. He advanced on tip-toe till he
could distinctly see a dark figure hastily pulling
up and casting aside plant after plant, and then,
saying aloud, " Now, my man, I think I have
got you," sprang upon the delinquent.

Now Claud, having had the advantage of
several minutes In which to decide upon his
tactics, knew very well what he was going to do.
The enemy, surprised and taken in the rear,
would probably surrender at discretion ; but in
order to make a certainty of the capture, it
would be advisable to force his arms behind his
back and pinion them ; and with this end in
view, our friend, having judged his handkerchief
hardly stout enough for the purpose, had
prudently slipped off his braces, and held them
in readiness in his left hand. Unfortunately
'' the best laid schemes o' mice and men gang
aft ashley," as many a painstaking general has
found out ere now, to his cost. Claud's first
sensation, after pouncing upon the foe, was the

violent jerking of his own legs from under him ;
immediately after which he found himself lying
ignobly prone upon the sward, while the sound
of a heavy body dropping into the moat, and
the scrambling of footsteps upon the further
side, brought home to him a dismal conviction
of failure. Claud was up and across the park
after the fugitive like a bird, thirst for vengeance
being now added to a sense of public duty.
The fellow had not got much of a start, after
all and from the thump, thump, thump of his
flying feet upon the grass, it was evident that
he was a heavily built man, wearing heavy
boots, whom a good runner should have no
difficulty in overtaking. Claud sped after the
sound, wishing vainly that there were a moon —
wishing still more that that unlucky idea of removing
his braces had not occurred to him. An
incident in M. About's '' Roi des Montagues,"
wherein a similar mischance proves fatal, not to
the pursuer, but to the pursued, flashed across
his memory ; and in truth a slim man running
without braces is a heavily handicapped creature.
Claud, however, without relaxing his speed,
managed to effect a conjunction between button
and buttonhole which does not appear to have
suggested itself to M. Hermann Schultz ; and,
thus relieved, soon had the satisfaction of discovering

that he was gaining upon the chase.
The latter was plainly visible now, as was also
the boundary of the park, consisting of a wire
fence and a hedge. Through this the man
crashed headlong ; through it, a moment later,
plunged Claud, only to find himself standing
foolishly alone in the road, with neither sight
nor sound to guide him farther.

Hang it ! he can't be far off," muttered
Claud, peering to right and left ; and sure
enough, there, sitting quietly on a bank by the
roadside, with his elbows on his knees, was a
man, who neither stirred nor made any effort
to escape on being approached. Claud drew
nearer, and stooping down, looked into his face.

I thought as much !" he exclaimed. 'upon
my soul, Tom Burvill, you ought to be ashamed
of yourself."

'' Good evening to you, sir," answered the
other, bringing out his words with some difficulty
in a series of gasps. '' I ain't done nothing
fur to be ashamed of, sir — not as I knows. I
am a-setting here, sir — fur to enjoy the cool air
wot I often does of a night. Which the
Queen's high-way, sir — is free to all, I believe."

Now, Tom, really this won't do, you know.
It is bad enough to have destroyed Mr.
Flemyng's dahlias and knocked me off my

legs ; but to pretend that I have not run you
down and caught you fairly is a little too bad.
Why, you are so pumped that you can hardly
speak now."

'Tis spavin of the heart, sir — which I have
had them from a boy. I don't know nothing
about no dahlias, sir."

Well," said Claud, laughing, '' if you can get
the magistrates to believe that story, so much
the better for you."

*' Magistrates ! " ejaculated the man in a tone
of deep disgust. '* Catch them believing of a
honest man upon his oath ! Why, that there
blooming old Flemyng is one on 'em himself,
ain't he ? Come now, Mr. Claud, you ain't
never a-going to get a pore chap into trouble,
after all the sport we've had together, surely !
jNIagistrits indeed ! oh Lord ! "

I don't want to get you into trouble, Tom,"
answered Claud. " Indeed I rather had it in.
my mind to let you off for this once, though I
certainly ought not to do anything of the kind.
But you must make a clean breast of it first ;
and you must promise not to do this again. Of
course I understand that revenge was at the
bottom of it; I heard what happened to your
father the other day. But you might have had
the sense to see that Mr. Flemyng did no more

than his duty ; and anyhow it was rather a
shabby bit of spite to go and tear up his
flowers."

Well, sir, if so be as his flowers have a-bin
tore up, and if they've a-bin tore up by me —
which I do not admit it, sir — wot I says is,
serve the old blackguard right ! "

Tom, I can't listen to this. Mr. Flemyng
is a respectable and — er — benevolent gentleman,
and a particular friend of my own, and if you
wish to call him names, you must do so when I
am not present."

*' Well, sir, friends of your shall not be spoke
against by me — leastways, not modern is just
and fair ; for when you're called upon to name
a cur, why, cur it must be, and 'taint no manner
o' use fur to say greyhound nor foxhound. But
seeing what you and yours has done for us,
'twould be a dirty thing fur to go again your
wishes ; and I humbly ask your pardon, sir, for
laying of you on your back yonder — that is, if
'twere me as done it — but there's times when a
man has to think must of his own safety, and
can't help being a bit rough-like ; and 'twas
better fur me to take you ors yer legs than to
knock you down, you see, sir — that is, if 'twere
me as done it, which I do not admit nothing of
the sort, sir."

*'A11 ncrht Tom. You didn't hurt me, and
I bear no malice."

Thank you, sir, kindly ; and as I were
a-saying, your goodness, and wot Mr. Gervis
done for us, I shall not forget it ; nor yet father
won't ; and as for that there old Flemyng,
seeing as he's a friend of your — and more's
the pity, if you'll excuse o' me saying so, sir —
why, he shan't be molested no more. That is,
if 'twere me as "

'' Never mind the formula, Tom ; we'll take
that as understood. But what has my father
ever done for you ? I did not think he had
even heard your name."

"Lord! ain't he told yer ? Well, I don't
know as I ought to speak ; but there ! — you
won't let it go no further, sir. Why, 'twas
t'other day, when father got into a bit of trouble
about that there partridge — a old bird, sir, and
a pore lean thing as couldn't have belonged to
no one in particular — little enough to make such
a outcry over. You bin told the whole story,
sir, I essay. Well, father come out o' court
feeling terrible down, thinking of wot mother
and the children was to do, with times so bad
and him in quod, when up comes Mr. Gervis
quite quiet ; and, ' Mr. Burvill,' he says, ' I
essay you ain't got no change in yer pocket ;

allow me,' he says — just like that — and outs
with the money. Father, he were that flustered,
wot with the surprise, and wot with his trouble,
and having bin kep' so long with old Flemyng
a-staring at him gorgeous-like from the bench "
(What stray echo of mythology could have
suggested this adjective to Tom's imagination ?)
" that he couldn't have spoke a word to
save himself, and let the gentleman go without
so much as a thank you. But when he come
out afterwards he sees Mr. Gervis a-standing
on the steps, and goes up fur to say wot was
right. ' That'll do,' says Mr. Gervis, rather
short ; ' I don't want no thanks. I come hereto
be amused,' he says, ' and I spent a weary
pleasant afternoon,' he says ; ' and weary pleased
to pay for it,' he says. ' And looked here,' he
says ; * there ain't no call for you to talk about
this, you understand.' 'As yozi- please, sir,'
says father. 'Tis betwixt you and me, sir, and
though not spoke of shall not be forgot. And
we'll drink your jolly good health, sir, to-night,'
says father. Mr. Gervis, he looks at father
curious-like. ' You're a disreputable old person,
Mr. Burvill,' he says. ' I suspect you'll be
hung if you live long enough. But go on
drinking your friends' healths, and maybe you'll
cheat the gallus yet,' says he. Them was his

words. ' Go on drinking your friends' healths,
and maybe you'll cheat the gallus yet.' Haw,
haw, haw ! You should hear father tell It. 'Tis
enough to make you bust yourself laughing."

Claud felt that he could listen to the witticism
which had so greatly tickled the Burials, father
and son, without much fear of being overtaken
by such a catastrophe as Tom suggested ; but
he laughed nevertheless, partly out of complaisance,
and partly because the story had been
a very pleasant one to him. " How like the
governor ! " he thought. " He is always helping
lame dogs over stiles, only he gets no credit for
it, because he doesn't care to blow his own
trumpet. I shall tell Gen about this." Then
Tom — always protecting himself by an occasional
reiteration of his saving-clause — went on to
relate how a burning desire to " be even with
that there old Flemyng " had led him Into
wreaking vengeance upon the unoffending
dahlias, expressed some qualified contrition for
his misdeeds, and in consideration of being
allowed to evade the just consequences of them,
bound himself to refrain from such lawless acts
for the future. It is painful to be obliged to
add that this evil-doer was finally furnished with
the wherewithal to drink his captor's health.

And so these two prepared to part upon

terms of mutual food-will. But before he said
good-night, Tom deemed it incumbent upon him
to denver himself of a well-meant caution

Begging your pardon, sir," he said, " I hope
there ain't nothing betwixt you and the young
lady there."

'' Don't be impertinent, Tom," said Claud,
good-humouredly enough.

'' I will not, sir. But take my word for it,
sir, them Flemyngs is no good. We fishermen
knows modern you think, sir, and as for
that there Miss Nina, she's a audacious one,
and no mistake about it. She's too fond of
gentlemen at large to stick long to one, married
or unmarried, is that young 'oman. I seen her
with 'em times an' again. One day 'tis this
one, next day 'tis that. Last year 'twas Sir
Frederick ; now 'tis you, sir, ain' your pardon.
Means no offence, sir ; but I thought 'twas only
right to put you on your guard like."

Claud of course rebuked his over-zealous
counsellor ; but for all that, the rough warning,
coupled with the remembrance of Nina's own
confessions, had the effect of somewhat lowering
his spirits, and it was in a pensive mood that
he walked back towards the house to announce
his failure to arrest the thief.

Nina, tired of waiting outside in the dark,

had returned to the library, where Claud found
her sitting with her father. It thus became
necessary that some account of the evenings
adventure should be given to Mr. Flemyng,
who was greatly incensed when he heard that
the miscreant had escaped scot-free.

'' I will spare neither pains nor expense to
bring him to justice ! " cried he wrathfully.
To-morrow evening I shall station two policemen
in the garden."

Claud said he thought that would be an excellent
plan, and then rose to take his leave,
being perfectly aware, as he did so, that his
meagre statement had by no means satisfied
Nina, and that he would have to tell her the
whole truth on the following day.

CHAPTER III.

A RACECOURSE AND A CATHEDRAL.

Lady Croft was at this time a happier woman
than she had been for years. Returning home,
after a series of visits to kindred dowagers in
other parts of England, she had been greeted
on all sides vrith rumours which had caused her
maternal heart to rejoice, and which had given
her hope that her fondest projects were about
to be realized. The poor lady's children had
not hitherto been much of a comfort to her.
Careful bringing up had not preserved them
from ways that were wild, If not wicked, and
direct influence over their conduct she well knew
that she had none. On Florry's score there
seemed to be more ground for disapproval than
for positive alarm. Some day, no doubt, she
would find a congenial husband — for although
admirers of masculine women are not precisely
plentiful, neither are they rare in these days — ■

and, once he was found, it would be his business
to look after her. But that Freddy, so long ashe
remained a bachelor, must be surrounded by
perils of the worst kind was only too obvious.
Some kind friend had once said to Lady Croft,
That son of yours is born to be the prey of
women. The chances are that he will end by
marrying the housemaid ; " and this careless
and impertinent speech had haunted the anxious
mother's memory long after it had been forgotten
by its utterer. She did all that she
could. Taking the warning in a literal sense,
she actually issued instructions to the housekeeper
that no woman-servant with any pretensions
to good looks should be suffered to
form one of the Croft Manor establishment.
She ransacked Lynshire for a bride ; she applied
to all her friends to send her a girl — any girl
of decent parentage — who might be willing and
fitted to reign in her stead ; and by a hundred
transparent stratagems she strove to lure her
son into the meshes. But all this had proved
to be labour in vain. The young ladies, to be
sure, had come forward in sufficiently large
numbers ; but Freddy had declined to be captivated
by any of them. With some he had
flirted ; some he had ignored ; but to none had
he ever gone so far as to make serious pro-vol.

11. E

posals; while, on the other hand, he had
repeatedly frightened his mother out of her wits
by advancing to the very brink of matrimony
with some such wholly inadmissible person as
Miss Lambert.

And now it was beginning to be whispered
In the country that, after so many and great
dangers, the waverer had chosen wisely and welland
that ere long Genevieve Gervis would be
seen dispensing the hospitalities of Croft Manor.
With her subdued, melancholy air, her craze
for music, and her total ignorance of the ways
0f English country life, she was certainly not
quite the sort of young lady whom nature would
appear to have designed for the wife of a
sporting baronet; but the old doctrine of the
affinity of opposite temperaments came in appositely
here, and it was agreed that if Sir
Frederick had hitherto shown more liking for
jollity than for refinement, some counteracting
influence was precisely what he most needed.
Moreover, added the gossips in their good-natured
way, the girl was evidently much
smitten with him, and would doubtless look
leniently upon such of his peccadilloes as she
might find herself unable to cure.

When these neighbourly comments and surmises
reached Lady Croft's ears— as we maybe

sure that they did directly after her return
home — she could hardly contain herself for joy.
Had she belonged to another branch of the
Church Catholic, she would no doubt have
relieved her feelings by holding out handsome
conditional inducements to her patron saint.
Being without such a heavenly confidant, she
ordered her carriage, and drove Into Beach-borough
to see Mrs. Knowles.

'' So you have come to catechise me," said
that outspoken lady. " The last time that you
honoured me with a visit was rather more thana
year ago, when you wanted to know whether
your son was going to marry Nina Flemyng.
I dare say you remember what I told you then."

*' Oh, but I assure you, Mrs. Knowles, I
have called upon you very often since that.
You must have forgotten."

Have you ? Well, I was out, I suppose ;
or perhaps I didn't want to see you. At any
rate, you will hardly deny that It is an errand
of much the same kind that has brought you
here now. And I can only give you the same
answer : I don't know."

Lady Croft murmured something about Mrs.
Knowles being such a great friend of the
Gervlses', about the suitability of the match,
about her own maternal anxieties, and her

S&^of'^^'*""

Strong Impression that her son was " really In
earnest " this time.

Oh, well, If you ask me what I think," said
Mrs. Knowles, whose opinion, by the way, had
not been asked at all as yet, '' I tell you plainly
that I consider such a match anything but
suitable. I won't say that the girl Is too good
for him ; because I have always had a liking
for your young scapegrace, as you know ; but
her standard Is too high for him ; and It Is more
than likely that, If they married now, he would
break her heart before long. That's nothing to
you, you'll say : so long as he gets a ladylike
wife, who will behave herself properly and leave
her neighbours' husbands alone, you care very
little whether her heart be whole or broken.
But I care a good deal, as It happens ; and that
Is why I am not sorry that there Is a fair

prospect of a disappointment In store for

J)
you.

'' Oh, do you think so ? " Lady Croft was

almost In tears. To be accused of being an

accomplice In the prospective breaking of

Genevieve's heart did not distress her much,.

recklessness In the matter of accusation being

her old friend's prerogative ; but that so shrewd

an observer should throw doubts upon what

everybody else had seemed to regard as next

door to a certainty was a heavy blow. " I had
hoped so much that he was in earnest," she
sighed.

There are two or more parties to every
bargain," Mrs. Knowles remarked drily.

You surely cannot mean that she is trifling
with him ! Oh, that would be too — horrid of
her ! Mrs. Knowles, I implore you to conceal
nothing from me. If I have been mistaken and
misinformed, I would far rather be undeceived
at once."

I tell you I don't know anything at all
about it. How is an old woman to fathom the
deep ways of girls and boys who are always on
their best behaviour before her ? If I were in
your place, and if I hadn't patience and commonsense
enough to stand aside and avoid meddling
where I could do no good, I should go straight
to head-quarters for the information I wanted.
But, mind you, I don't advise your doing anything
of the sort."

Never a word that falls from the lips of manor
woman — so they say — but has its results,
great or small, immediate or remote. To these
guarded utterances on the part of Mrs. Knowles,
for instance, was due the occurrence of a
phenomenon unprecedented in the annals of
Lynshire : the appearance, namely, of Lady

Croft's dark-green barouche upon the Winchester
race-course.

I hardly know why It is that the Lynchester
autumn meeting has never met with much support
at the hands of the local magnates. It is
a decent, orderly meeting enough, attended by
but few roughs and very few bookmakers ; the
horses belong for the most part to Lynshire
owners, and six to four on the favourite is the
usual state of the betting before each race.
There is, therefore, little temptation or opportunity
for the risking of fortunes on Higham
Down ; nor does there appear, upon the face
of it, to be any reason why the ladies of the
county should not grace the proceedings by
their presence. But, whether it Vere owing to
a vague impression of incongruity between the
sound of cathedral-bells and the yells of betting-men,
or to the influence of Lord Courtney, who
has ever set his face against any commingling
of the upper and middle classes, certain it is
that a decree went forth lone aeo to the effect

o o

that it should not be " the thine " to be seen at
Lynchester races ; and as, in our part of the
world, we do not violate established custom
without some grave cause, the nobility and
gentry of the neighbourhood, when they show
themselves upon the course, usually leave their
wives and daughters behind them.

It is true that there exist among us, as elsewhere,
a few independent spirits who will not
be bound by laws to which their reason refuses
its assent. Miss Croft, for one, is always to be
seen in a conspicuous place near the winning-post,
and Nina Flemyng has upon more than
one occasion been persuaded to bear her company,
while there is generally a sprinkling of
fair strangers ignorant of the unwritten laws of
Lynshire. The Gervis family had hardly yet
emerged from the latter category in the particular
month of September with which we are
now concerned, and consequently felt no hesitation
in accepting Freddy Croft's offer to drive
them over to Higham Down on his drag.

We'll make up a regular jolly party," said
that well-meaning young man confidentially to
Mr. Gervis. " Miss Gervis will have the box-seat,
of course — that is, if she will do me the
honour to sit beside me ; and Nina and my
sister and Claud, you know, and a chap I've
got staying with me, a real good sort, and the
best hand at a coach-horn in Europe — that'll
make six ; and then there'll be old Flemyng for
yoio ; and Miss Potts — do you think Miss Potts
would come ? If she would, I might try and
get Colonel Finch to talk to her — talk to anybody,
old Finch would. I should say that

would be about enough. One doesn't want a
crowd of outsiders, does one ? "

'certainly not," agreed Mr. Gervis gravely.
*' Your arrangements are perfect, and it is most
thoughtful of you to have provided each of us
with a suitable companion. Probably, however,
you will have to eliminate Potts and partner.
I can't answer for the effect that your seductive
inducements may have upon her ; but I doubt
whether her sense of decorum will permit of her
scrambling up on to the roof of a coach."

And in truth Miss Potts, on being informed
of the proposed expedition, gratefully but firmly
declined to join in it, excusing herself upon
the plea of uncertain nerves and an invincible
terror of sitting behind four horses, however
skilfully driven. But the remainder of the
party was made up without any occasion for
entreaties, and it is to be hoped that the several
couples so judiciously selected enjoyed themselves,
each after their own fashion, during the
long drive.

The occupant of the box-seat was assuredly
not the least contented of the coach-load.
Often, in other and less joyous days, Genevieve
looked back upon that excursion to Lynchester
races as one of the brightest episodes of a time
in which all things had been bright. The

exhilarating influences attendant upon coaching
are so widely known and appreciated in these
days that it is needless to insist upon the
natural excitement of one who found herself
for the first time under their spell ; but as
charm of landscape has a good deal to say to
the true enjoyment of all out-door pursuits —
as fishermen cast their flies with an additional
zest under the shadow of the Avild mountains
of Norway or in solemn Canadian solitudes —
as the sportsman rejoices in the purple moorland
and the flying lights and shades upon the
distant hills— so the delight of sitting behind
four well-broken horses may be greatly enhanced
if pleasant scenery lie on either side of the
way ; and Genevieve confidently avers to this
present day that the fourteen miles of highroad
which separate Southlands from Winchester
are without their equals in England for
beauty and variety of the cheerful, rural order.

The heavy drag rolled on swiftly, up hill and
down dale, now thundering through a straggling
village, where children ran out, with their
fingers in their mouths, to stare at the quality,
while their mothers curtsied from the doorways
; now skirting woods upon which autumn
had already laid touches of yellow, russet and
brown ; sometimes crossing a gorse-covered

common, or '' minnie," as we should say in
our parts, whence the towers of Lynchester
cathedral could be distinguished far below in
the one direction and white sails against the
horizon-line in the other ; sometimes descending
again into a deep hollow, where there
would be pretty sure to be sand-pits and flights
of little martins darting hither and thither
about their rocky nests. All the land had that
aspect of drowsy well-being which is the
property of England and autumn ; the grey
old churches, clothed in ivy and flanked by
yew-trees, and the thatched farm-buildings
among their stacks, seemed sleeping in mellow
sunlight, as if such were their normal condition
and they knew nothing of the bleak winter
gales. But there was no lack of life, human
and other, about. Waggons, laden with the
riches of an abundant harvest, drev/ up to let
Sir Frederick go by ; farmers, taking their
good ladies in gigs to see the horse-racing,
touched their hats,, and were saluted in return
by the prescribed lifting of the driver's elbow ;,
every now and again a covey of partridges
whirred up out of the turnips ; and once, from
the edge of a marsh, a snipe rose suddenly —
whizz, whizz ! right and left, and then away like
an arrow.

It Is in truth a pleasant, homely country, and
not by me, who know and love every acre of it,
shall its merits be disparaged ; but I can't but
suspect that, if Genevieve's way had lain
across Essex flats or through the Infernal
regions of the black country, she would have
conceived a speedy admiration for those dreary
landscapes. For the axiom we started with is,
after all, a two-edged one, and if Nature flatters
happiness, happiness, I suppose Is not slow to
return the compliment, and will have it that all
nature must be beautiful. And Genevieve was
at this time happier than she had ever been
before in her life. It Is needless to add that
she was unaware of any special reason for her
being so, or, for that matter, of her being so
at all ; for when reflections such as these begin
to thrust themselves forward the subject of
them is apt to vanish mighty quickly. It was
enough for Genevieve, on that sunny autumn
morning, to feel that life was sweet, and that
somebody close at hand cared for her more
than conventionality allowed him to say. She
did not tell herself that Freddy was In love
with her — I fancy that some women shrink
from putting such thoughts Into so many words,
even lone after the truth has become clear to
them — but how could she help noticing the

deferential tone which he always adopted in
addressing her ? Or could she fail to observe
what pains he took to gratify every whim of
hers, and how he remembered careless words
and hints that had fallen from her weeks
before ? The key-note of the girl's character
was an intense and almost morbid desire to beloved
; and I am not prepared to say that any
skilful man would have had much difficulty in
making himself loved by her. Freddy was not
exactly skilful ; but he was certainly dangerous.
He was kind and merry and had quick sympathies,
and when his frank blue eyes met
Genevieve's, she felt that she was looking into
the face of an honest man, who would not
know how to tell a lie, and who would stick
to his friends through good report and evil
report. And perhaps, in the main, she read
him rightly.

Freddy's tongue, always an active member,
had little rest between Southlands and the racecourse.
He gave his neighbour some elementary
instruction in the art of driving four-in-hand
; he told her the names and pedigrees
of his horses ; he pointed out where the houses
of his various acquaintances stood, and had
some queer anecdote to relate or terse description
to give of each and all of their owners ;

and Genevieve listened, speaking seldom herself,
laughing sometimes, and quietly enjoying
it all. Behind her, Miss Croft and her attendant
swain were entertaining one another uproariously
; Claud and Nina were, as usual,
conversing in soft undertones ; and from time
to time, dominating all other sounds, came fragments
of didactic utterances — " The scientific
basis of morality must be sought for in the
evolution of conduct. . A right understandings
of the relation of causes to effects renders
all revealed religion superfluous. . . . Sin will
cease when man shall have discovered that sin
Is essentially fatal to happiness," etc., etc. —
showing that Mr. Flemyng had been fuddling
his brains with a superficial study of Mr.
Herbert Spencer.

The course was reached only too soon.
Freddy steered his coach very neatly through
the crowd of vehicles which were already
gathered together upon the turf, and drew up
in the place which had been reserved for him.

I say, I'm not going to sit here all day,
you know," Miss Croft announced immediately.
Come along, Nina, and let's have a look at
them in the paddock. I'll tell you what to
back as soon as I've seen them. Now then ;
catch me, somebody ; I'm going overboard ! "

And with a scramble and a jump, Miss Croft
reached the ground. Nina followed her in a
more leisurely and graceful fashion ; and then
Freddy said —

We might as well go too, oughtn't we,
Miss Gervis ? There's a good half-hour to
be eot throiiQ^h before the next race, and we
can take a walk round without being hustled,
or anything. We ain't an over showy lot to
look at down here ; but our manners are quite
up to the mark, I promise you."

Genevieve nodded assent. Like the proverbial
British soldier, she was ready to go
anywhere and do anything — ready, also, to be
pleased with everything. Into the paddock
she did not go, Freddy being unwilling to let
her approach so closely to the horses' heels —
though, to be sure, he had seen his sister and
Miss Flemyng adventure themselves into that
dangerous proximity without a tremor — but she
was taken to look at the man who swallowed
blazing tow and broke stones on his head, at
the country-people solemnly revolving in a
merry-ground to the strains of a wheezy
barrel-organ, at the knock-'em-downs and the
shooting-galleries and the other common accompaniments
of English racing ; and with all
these remarkable sights she was pleased to

declare herself much entertained. Even
Higham Down came in for a share of her
praise ; and, indeed, with its crowd of gaily-dressed
holiday-makers, its brass bands and
tents and fluttering flames, and its far-stretch in e
prospect of autumn woods, fields, and blue distances,
that ordinarily bleak district seemed to
have assumed a smile to welcome the stranger.
And then the racing itself Longchamps could
show nothing more attractive, Genevieve
thought. There, as here, there were weedy-looking
horses, tiny jockeys in silk jackets,
false starts, exciting finishes ; and if the quality
of the sport were a trifle inferior in the present
case, the enjoyment of the uninitiated was certainly
not affected thereby.

After a time hampers were unpacked, pies
and mayonnaises and other good things made
their appearance upon the roof of the drag,
corks were drawn, conversation grew louder
and laughter more hearty, and soon everybody
began to show an inclination to view the world
in as rosy a light as did Genevieve herself.
Mr. Flemyng, In particular, rising to the level
of the occasion under the influence of sunshine
and champagne, delivered himself of an eloquent
panegyric upon the English thoroughbred,
tracing the pedigree of that noble animal

up to his Arab ancestors, dwelling In glowing
language upon his speed, courage, and endurance,
and committing himself to such extraordinary
statements with reference to the process
of his training that the three younger men
of the party had much ado to repress an unseemly
outburst of mirth. The yokels who
slouched by, with their hands In their pockets,
stared up open-mouthed at the flushed and
grey-haired orator overhead ; Nina looked a
little uneasy, Miss Croft contemptuous, while
Mr. Gervis, with his head on one side, appeared
to be calculating how much longer his
venerable friend would be allowed to shout
without the Intervention of the police. But
Mr. Flemyng neither saw nor heeded any of
these things. Toasts, he said, were, he was
aware, somewhat out of date ; but on an occasion
like the present, when they were surrounded,
as It were, by patrons of the turf,
when they saw about them evidences of the
Interest taken In their own country in that —
er — er — grand institution, and when they were
partaking of the hospitality — he would say the
generous hospitality — of — er — er — In short, of
a patron of the turf, he could not refrain from
proposing one toast, which he was sure would
be received with the enthusiasm which it

merited. He meant, "Success to horse-racing."


It was at this convivial moment that Freddy
startled everybody by dropping his glass and
exclaiming in a loud voice, " Good Lord deliver
us !

'what 2s the matter ? " asked Nina, who had
been put a little out of humour by her father's
exhibition, and who hated being startled.

'' Oh, nothing," answered Freddy ; " only the
world has come to an end, I expect, and my
mother has driven over to announce It. Oh,
there's no doubt about it ; It's my mother, fast
enough ; and I give you my word I should as
soon have thought of seeing the Archbishop of
Canterbury at Lynchester races."

Lady Croft, making her way, attended by a
bewildered footman, through the crowd that
surrounded her son's drag, was probably as
conscious of being out of her proper place as
any one could have wished her to be ; but it is
notorious that the timidest things in creation
will grow bold when under the sway of maternal
instinct ; and this fond mother happened, as we
have seen, to be harassed by anxieties which it
would have taken something more formidable
than the jostling of tag, rag and bobtail to keep

VOL. II. F

her from seizing the first favourable occasion of
allaying.

I have come to carry you away," she said,
smiling up at Genevieve, after she had bowed
graciously to each member of the little party on
the top of the drag. " You were saying, the
other day, that you would like so much to hear
the cathedral service ; and as I had to drive Into
Lynchester this afternoon, and knew you were
here, I thought it would be such a good opportunity
— especially as It seems that they are
going to have a par^zcu/arfy lovely anthem.
You know, It Is Saint — Saint — well, Saint
Somebody s day. We shall be just in time, If
we start at once ; and the Dean has very kindly
promised to have stalls kept for us."

*' But Lord bless my soul, mother !" exclaimed
Freddy, aghast, " Miss Gervis is out for a day s
racing ; she don't want to go to church."

"My dear boy, dont you think Miss Gervis
may have had enough of this dreadful noise and
bustle ? You forget that her tastes are not
quite the same as yours. Now, Miss Gervis,
would you not a great deal rather listen to some
beautiful music for half an hour than stay where
you are ? I am quite sure you would."

Genevieve, perhaps, was not equally positive ;
but what could she do ?

"It is very kind of you to have taken so
much trouble," she said, preparing to descend
from her high position, without directly answering
the question.

"Not at all — only too delighted'' returned
Lady Croft, triumphing. And then, thinking
that a word of consolation might properly be
thrown to Freddy — " I shall bring her back
long before it is time for you to start," she
added encouragingly ; and so departed, bearing
off the prize.

Genevieve, accustomed all her life long to
submit to the caprices of others, allowed herself
to be driven away in Lady Croft's carriage
without a murmur. She could not, however,
help regretting her curtailed holiday a little ;
nor did the cathedral music prove to be by any
means worthy of the sacrifice which she had
made for the sake of it. That saint whose
name Lady Croft had failed to remember must,
if he had any existence at all, have been only a
black-letter worthy ; for there was neither opening
nor concluding voluntary, as there would
have been, had the day been a festival of the
Church, and the minor canon who gabbled
through the service, like a clerk reciting a legal
document, appeared to be in one mind with the
choir as to the desirability of getting the business
over as soon as might be.

There was but a scanty congregation present,
consisting for the most part of old ladies —
wives, probably, of the cathedral dignitaries
who occupied stalls here and there, and
repeated the responses in their quavering
voices. From a great wheel-window in the
south transept long rays of blue and crimson
and golden sunlight streamed down upon
clustered pillars and carved oak, upon marble
flags and ancient brasses, upon the old ladies'
bonnets, and the white surplices of the choristers,
and the vergers in their stuff gowns, and the
bald head of Mr. Dean, who was well stricken
in years and had dropped asleep on his knees.
They seemed to fall like a benediction from-heaven,
Genevieve fancied — those rainbow
tints which had shed their soft brilliance upon
so many generations of dead and forgotten
worshippers, and which would illumine the
children's children of those who now claimed
a brief right to kneel in Lynchester cathedral.
Those old canons and their wives must have an
easy, happy time of it, she thought — a peaceful
evening of life, dwelling in their dim, spacious
houses under the shadow of the cathedral
towers, toddling in to the daily services, waiting
quietly for the end in an atmosphere of
solemnity and beauty and rest. Surely the

vulgar cares and worries of this world could
never penetrate into those cloistered recesses
or obtrude themselves upon the dignified repose
of those trim lawns and walled gardens. And
then she began to wonder what it would belike
to be quite, quite old, and whether, supposing
she had reached a patriarchal age, she
would like to be the wife of a pillar of the
Church. From which point she allowed her
mind to wander off into a variety of vague
speculations, instead of saying her prayers, as
she ought to have been doing.

Lady Croft was more devout. She remained
kneeling for some time after the little procession
of clergy and lay-clerks had passed, with echoing
footsteps, down the nave ; and who knows
whether, if Genevieve could have overheard her
neighbour's petitions, she might not have been
startled by the sound of her own name occurring
in them ? For Lady Croft, good soul, had
kept unimpaired the religious beliefs which she
had learnt as a child, and now, in her old age,
asked quite simply for what she wanted, just as,
fifty odd years before, she had prayed for fine
weather, or a new doll, or what not. The
special intervention of Providence seemed requisite
to the attainment of the end which, at
that moment, she had chiefly in view ; but

something might certainly be accomplished by
human effort, and she was determined that she
would at all events discover within the next
quarter of an hour whether there were any
ground for the disquieting hints thrown out by
Mrs. Knowles.

The dean in his surplice joined the two ladies
as soon as they had emerged into the cloisters,
and suggested tea at the deanery and a subsequent
examination of the cathedral and its
ancient monuments ; but Lady Croft declined
both offers with many thanks. The carriage
was waiting, she said, and her young friend had
an appointment out in the country to keep
presently. (She did not think it necessary to
mention that the appointment was at Higham.
Down.) They would only just take a turn
round the cloisters before starting. Some
other day she hoped to have the pleasure of
calling upon Mrs. — Mrs. — The old gentleman
said his wife would always be delighted to see
Lady Croft, and soon took his leave — not unwillingly
perhaps.

The time was getting short, and Lady Croft
could not afford to waste any more of it. She
made Genevieve sit down beside her on a stone
bench, in front of which was a grass-plot, shut
in by broken arches and ivy-grown ruins, and
opened the attack.

'' I am SO glad I thought of bringing you
here this afternoon," she began. ** The music
was not qtiite as good as usual, and I suppose
they must have changed the anthem for some
reason or other ; still, it was worth while
coming was it not .^ — and so much nicer than
spending the whole day on that horrid racecourse.
And it has been such a pleasure to me
to meet you again. I was in hopes that I
should have seen you, the other day, when I
called ; but you were out."

Genevieve said she had been very sorry.

"Oh, so was I. I was dreadfully disappointed.
I very seldom care to make new
acquaintances now ; but yon, of course, are such
an acquisition to the neighbourhood ; and if I
had not been away from home, I should have
hoped to see a great deal of you all," said Lady
Croft, very graciously. " I have keaj^d of you,
though, constantly from my son," she continued,
'' and of all your kindness to him. You don't
know what a relief it is to my mind to think
that he has friends like you within reach.
Poor boy ! I cannot help feeling anxious about
him sometimes. He is so warm-hearted and
unsuspecting ; and staying in all kinds of
houses, as he does, there are constant risks for
him which / see, though he cannot. The girls

of the present day seem to me to be a different
race from what we were. We used to consider
the name of a flirt a reproach ; they, I believe,
absolutely glory in it. I hope, my dear child,
\h?it you never flirt."

Lady Croft turned her head round, and
looked inquiringly into her hearer's face, as she
delivered this shot ; but if she expected to see
an ingenuous blush there, she was disappointed.
The daughter of Vincent Gervis and the Marchesa
Antoinette had inherited a constitution
free from such distressing tendencies, and would
not have been put out of countenance even if
her ladyship's thrust had struck home.

Oh no," she answered, laughing a little.
But you were speaking about your son."

'eyes. I am afraid for him. He is as true as
steel himself; he does not understand what is
called flirtation" (Oh, Lady Croft!) 'rand there
are many girls, unfortunately, who take a delight
in making men fond of them, while they themselves
are thinking of nothing but their own
amusement. I think that is so unwomanly and
strong, don't you ? "

Do you mean Miss Lambert ? " Genevieve
asked.

That horrid common girl .^ Oh dear no !
there never was the least danger there. Freddy

would not have thought of such a thing ; his
taste is too good for that. No ; what I mean
is that there are others — persons of his position,
you understand — who give me the idea of being
nice and suitable, and who are ready to encourage
him, without perhaps seriously reflecting
upon what they are doing."

So that the wrong people want to marry
him, and the right people don't. That is very
unlucky," said Genevieve gravely.

This was not exactly the impression which
Lady Croft had intended to convey. She
shifted her ground a little.

*' There are so very few right people at all,"
she sighed ; " that is the worst of it. And if
you knew my son as well as I do, you would
see how absolutely essential it is that he should
marry someone who would be really the right
person for him."

Some one of a cheerful disposition ? " suggested
Genevieve, for want of any better
remark.

Lady Croft demurred. '* Well ; not so much
that. Of course he would not like his wife to
be dull or moping."

'' I don't think she would have the chance,"
observed Genevieve, smiling.

No ; perhaps not. But that was not what

I had in my mind. The truth is that Freddy
will be what his wife may choose, or be able, to
make him. Some men are like that, you know :
the Crofts have always been so ; it is in the
blood. And so many of them have gone
wrong, and are spoken of now as having been
bad men, when in reality they were not that at
all, but only thoughtless and high-spirited ; and
the fault has been with the women of their
family, who have been timid, or selfish, or
somehow unable to influence them. I often
think that, when the time comes for us all to
give an account of our lives, we shall find that
we are answerable for many sins of others which
we might have prevented, if we had used our
opportunities rightly."

Lady Croft paused. She had spoken the
last few words in a quiet voice, without any of
her usual exaggerated emphasis, and there were
tears in her eyes when she ceased. If half of
what one has heard about the late Sir Montagu
be true, it is very unlikely that any female influence
could have perceptibly retarded his
progress to the deuce ; but then what one hears
of one's neighbours very seldom is true ; and
doubtless this poor, weak, well-intentioned lady
had a store of faded old memories in the light
of which her husband would appear, not as a

tipsy bully, but as a gallant young suitor protesting
life-long fidelity to the object of his
vows. I have been told that theirs was a love-match,
and that, when they came home after
the wedding, they where admitted on all hands
to be the handsomest couple in the county.

"And so," resumed the widow presently,
*' you see it is not everybody whom I should
care to welcome as Freddy's wife. I know
quite well what the girl whom he ought to
marry should be like. She should be quiet and
cultivated in her tastes ; she should be fond of
music, because that is a passion of his ; she
should be ready to sympathize in his amusements,
without actually joining in all of them ;,
for, if she did, she might lower herself In his
esteem. If possible, she should always hold
herself the least bit in the world above him ;
and a certain amount of decision she rniist have.
Such a wife as that would make him happy all
his life long ; and I knoiv that he would make
her happy too."

How could Genevieve help recognizing the
person intended to be portrayed in this distinct
sketch ? The inference was flattering, but
embarrassing, and It was difficult to see what
answer could be made, or was expected to be
made, to such general observations. And then

on a sudden, as she sat silent there, poking
the point of her parasol between the chinks of
the flagged pavement, she found herself being
Warmly embraced.

After that, Lady Croft had the grace and the
sense not to say any more. On the way back
to the race-course she discoursed with much
vivacity upon various topics, but did not again
allude to her son's destinies. She was at ease
in her mind, feeling that the object of her
excursion had been attained, and that it now
only remained for Freddy to make the needful
avowal of his love, x^nd yet Genevieve had
neither said nor done anything to warrant so
hasty a leap to conclusions, except that she had
allowed herself to be kissed — which, to be sure,
she could hardly have helped.

Freddy had a somewhat silent and absent
neighbour on the box-seat, as he drove homewards.
This, however, did not so much
signify, as he himself had a great deal to relate
and talk about ; and while seven tongues were
keeping up an incessant accompaniment to the
clatter of the horses' hoofs and the rumbling of
the wheels, the inactivity of the eighth was fortunate
enough to escape notice. Mr. Flemyng,
who had been assuaging his thirst with more
champagne during the afternoon, had harked

back to the subject of his morning s discourse,
and was laying down an authoritative scheme
of ethics, in the course of which sundry hard
words, such as transcendental, pseudo-materialism
and the Hke, lost a syllable here and
there.

No such thing as crime ! " cried he, with a
wave of his hand, apropos of the county gaol,
which somebody pointed out in the distance.
No such thing as crime ! Mis-directed energy
merely misd'rect' energy ! "

To one listener this indistinct philosophic
utterance sounded almost like an echo of the
theory which she had just heard broached with
reference to the Croft family, whose energies,
it appeared, had taken a wrong direction for
the want of a guiding hand at once gentle and
firm. Was it her mission to supply this deficiency
in the case of the present head of the
house ? Had she it in her power to do so ?
And was good-humoured, unromantic little
Freddy indeed the man to whom she could
consecrate her love and her life, and, forsaking
all other, hold herself till death should them
part?

These questions, and sundry others, our
heroine may have debated, as the twilight
deepened and the woods grew dim, and the

hedge-rows and houses flitted past her half-conscious
eyes. But she probably perceived
that, if she could answer the last of them in
the affirmative, the remainder might be allowed
to take their chance.

CHAPTER IV.

FRIENDLY WARNINGS.

I HAVE not at any time been tempted to invest
a portion of my limited capital in unlimited
concerns ; but I can well imagine that, if I had
done so, and that if my choice had fallen, say,
upon the Glasgow Bank — as, of course, it would
have done ; for nobody ever had such luck as I
have — I can well imagine, I say, that when the
fatal hour struck, and the papers brought me
the announcement of my ruin, I should not
have been acquainted with all its details for
more than an hour or so before at least half
a dozen kind friends would have hastened in,
with the Times in their hands, to break the
news to me. The world is full of such well-meaning
folks — people who will insist upon
reading out to you from the Illustrated London
News the provisions of your late uncle's will,
in which, unhappily, your name does not figure ;

or who, after you have been holding wet blankets
In front of your fire-place for half an hour and
have collected your valuables and despatched a
messenger In hot haste for the parish engine, will
send round a footman with Mr. Brown s compliments,
and Is Mr. Jones aware that his chlmbley
is afire ? I am even acquainted with certain
persons who will not suffer one of my periodical
liver-attacks to pass without letting me know,
in commiserating accents, that I am looking far
from well ; which surely Is much as though
they should tell me that I have a nose upon
my face.

It was, therefore, only to be expected that,
with two love affairs going on under his very
eyes, Mr. Gervis should have had no lack of
Informants who felt it right to warn him of the
turn matters were taking. Not to mention a
succession of agitated missives bearing the
Trouvllle post-mark, which, in accordance with
his unvarying custom, he left unanswered, he
was favoured from all sides with verbal communications
the purport of which was that the
future both of his son and his daughter was In
danger of becoming compromised, that Freddy
Croft was a libertine, and Nina Flemyng, to
say the least of It, a flirt. Admiral Bagshawe,
meeting the owner of Southlands at the club,

took occasion to speak a few neighbourly words
to this effect in his bkint, straightforward way ;
Miss Pennefather, sustained by a sense of duty,
overcame her maiden modesty so far as to
recount some episodes in the domestic history
of Croft Manor and the Moated House ; Mrs.
This, Mrs. That, and Lady T'other followed
suit ; and, one fine afternoon, who should come
driving up in a mail phaeton, bent upon the
same charitable errand, but the lord-lieutenant
of the county in pi^oprid persona ?

Mr. Gervis happened to be sauntering alone
among his garden walks when this portent
became visible ; and Lord Courtney, catching
sight of him, pulled up, and handed the reins
to his groom.

How are you, Gervis ? how are you ? " said
he, as he descended slowly to the ground.

There was a time when Lord Courtney was
a great dandy, and wore the smallest patent-leather
boots that ever were seen ; but the
gout has long since forced him to discard these
vanities, just as years have robbed him of his
formerly slim figure. He is still, however, a
carefully dressed man. On the present occasion
he wore a grey frock-coat and trousers, and had
a pale yellow rose in his button hole. His tall
white hat was, as usual, tilted slightly forwards,

VOL. II. G

SO that he had to throw back his head and lower
his eyeHds in order to see any object In front of
him — a detail which was not without influence
upon the majesty of his carriage.

'' Taking your afternoon stroll ? " he asked
affably. *' If you will allow me, I will join you.
Charming place you have here, Gervis — charming,
upon my word ! "

Mr. Gervis said it was pretty, no doubt ; but
it was getting horribly damp and cold in the
mornings and evenings.

*' Ah, well, yes — I dare say. You must
expect heavy dews at this season of the year.
But your position is good. I wish my house
stood as well. And how do you like Lynshire ?
Find it a little dull perhaps ? Yes ; a man
accustomed to society, like yourself, naturally
would. But, as counties go, it is well enough —
sociable, you know ; and the properties don't
change hands much ; which is the great thing.
Lady Courtney would have done herself the
pleasure of calling upon the Princess Ouranoff ;
but she is a sad invalid, as you know ; and it is
rather a long drive from us to you. Somebody
told me, too, that the Princess and your
daughter were only to be in England for another
week or so."

'' The Princess has been at Trouville these

two months," answered Mr. Gervis ; " my
daughter is still with me."

Ah, yes ; so I have understood. And I
must congratulate you upon being the father of
so attractive a young lady as everybody declares
her to be. Some day I shall hope to have the
honour of being presented to her."

I believe that at court, where he has more
than once held high offices, Lord Courtney has
the reputation of being a man of singularly distinguished
and agreeable manners. It is
certain that he can make himself very pleasant
when he chooses — which, to be sure, Is not
every day — and he was pleased to do so now.
Suiting his conversation, as he thought, to his
company, he soon quitted local subjects for the
wider field of European politics, with regard to
which he represented himself as occupying the
position of a well-informed spectator. His
manner implied that he looked upon Gervis as
being in some sort du mdtie7% and he concealed
from him neither the contents of a letter which
he had received from the Prime Minister only
the day before, nor the French ambassador's
significant remark, as he stepped on board the
steamer at Dover, on his way to take a month's
leave of absence, nor certain rumours which had
lately been wafted over from Berlin. As to the

secret understanding of two celebrated Chancellors
he felt bound to maintain a discreet reserve
; but he allowed sundry hints to escape
from him which, if rightly taken, might well
serve as a basis for prophecy of coming events ;
and if in truth he knew very little more of these
matters than you or I, and if he altogether
failed to impose upon the veteran diplomatist
who listened to him so deferentially, his intentions
were none the less excellent for that.

Not until he had paced up and down the
gravel walks for the best part of an hour, and,
after consulting his watch, had declared that he
must really be going, did he touch upon the
genuine object of his visit ; and this he introduced
airily, as a sort of afterthought. By
the way. Lady Courtney had mentioned to him
some foolish gossip which he sincerely hoped
had no substratum of truth in it. And then he
proceeded to repeat what was being commonly
said in the county.

I make it a rule never to interfere in the
affairs of my neighbours : in fact I do not — ah
care to do so, as a general thing," concluded
Lord Courtney, seeming to imply that the
affairs of his neighbours were really a great
deal too far beneath him to merit notice.

With all the cares of your lord-lieutenancy

I

upon your shoulders, you cannot be expected to
find time for that amiable occupation," remarked
Mr. Gervis.

Well, no. But something is due to an old
friend ; and I have thought it well to — ah — put
you upon your guard."

I cannot sufficiently express my thanks."
Not at all ! I beg you won't mention it.
I shall be only too glad if a few words from me
should prove of service to you ; and bystanders,,
you know, proverbially see most of the game.
With regard to these — ah — Flemyngs I cannot
say much. I am not personally acquainted
with them ; but I have told you what people
say of the girl, and in any case, I presume that
you would hardly wish your boy to be entrapped
into a hasty marriage at his age. Young Croft
I do know ; and I am sorry to have to add that
I have the worst possible opinion of him. I
should not envy the lot of any lady who should
be condemned to live in such a — a — what shall
I say ? — such a den of wild beasts as Croft
Manor. It occurred to me that, having been
as long absent from England as you have, you
might be under some misapprehension as to his
status in the county — that you might imagine
him a man of position, or likely to become so.
I can assure you that he has not the slightest

chance of ever being anything of the kind. He
has, of course, certain advantages of birth and
fortune ; but he has not chosen to use them,
and they are not conspicuous enough to entitle
him of themselves to a place in society. He is
an impudent young dog, with a taste for low
company now, and he will probably proceed,
through the usual stages, to become a ruined
drunkard, as his father was before him. Were
I in your place, I should forbid him my house
before the mischief reached a head. Well,
good-bye, Gervis : glad to have seen you. I
need not say that I do not wish what I have
mentioned to you to go any further."

I fully understand and respect your feelings,"
replied Gervis. " The responsibilities of a
father are very heavy, and if one were not
cheered occasionally by some such proofs of
disinterested friendship as you have shown
me this afternoon, I hardly know how one
could bear up under them. My compliments
to Lady Courtney, and many thanks for your
valuable hints. Good-bye. Go away, you unspeakable
booby, and for the love of heaven,
don't come back again : you are the least
amusing of all the blockheads I have encountered
hereabouts."

The concluding words, it is needless to say,

were uttered after Lord Courtney had climbed
into his mail-phaeton again, and it is to be
hoped that that benevolent nobleman drove
away under the impression that his unselfishness
in discharging an irksome duty had been
properly appreciated.

A friend, or rather an enemy of yours. Lord
Courtney, was here to-day," Mr. Gervis remarked
casually to Freddy Croft that same
evening. '' How have you managed to offend
him so deeply ? "

I suppose it must be that ducking he got
with the fire-hose," said Freddy pensively. '' I
told Lynchester at the time that he wouldn't
like it. He has hated me like poison ever
since, and I'm sorry for it, because he's a good
sort of old boy, in spite of his pomposity, and
he subscribes handsomely to the hounds, though
he don't often come out himself. Poor old
Courtney ! He isn't a bad-hearted old chap,
you know."

''He said you were an impudent young dog,
with a taste for low company."

Did he really ? "

"He really did. And the worst of it is that
it's true," said Gervis, who had from the first
had a sneaking fondness for his good-humoured
little neighbour, and was in the habit of addressing

him in a tone of familiarity wholly
unknown to many of his older friends.

Well, I don't know what you call low
company," returned Freddy. *' I'm more at
Southlands than anywhere else, at all events."

Whereat Mr. Gervis gave a short laugh, and
ranof the bell for another bottle of the claret
which his guest specially affected. Freddy's
private opinion was that, when the time should
come for him to solicit that embarrassing interview
which all men, save such as have the luck
to espouse orphans, must face sooner or later,
he would be met in no very austere spirit by his
future father-in law.

Such was, indeed, the almost unanimous conviction
of those who felt an interest in the
fortunes of Freddy and Genevieve. Miss
Potts alone, in a silent minority of one, thought
differently. Her mental attitude with regard to
her employer was one of unalterable distrust,
and she knew that he was never more dangerous
than when he was outwardly most complaisant.
One other feature of his character,
which in any one else might have taken rank
as a virtue, but in him could only be counted
as a far-seeing sense of expediency, she had
observed : namely, that he was in all things
a man of his word. If, as Varna vehemently

asserted, he had bound himself to allow his
daughter to enter into no matrimonial engagement
during her stay in England, then the
sooner Sir Frederick knew the worst the
better, for his fate was sealed. Miss Potts,
therefore, was ill at ease, and would have given
the half of that snug little sum which years of
economy had enabled her to lay by, if, by so
doing, she could have averted the impending
sword from her dear pupils head. Non Sicidcu
capes, 71071 avittm citharcBve cantus — not those
frequent dinners, at which Mr. Fleming enjoyed
himself so hugely and the laughter of the
young folks was so loud ; not the plaintive
thrilling of the violin on soft autumn evenings,
could lull Miss Potts's fears to rest, or raise her
drooping spirits. Sometimes she would fix a
piteous interrogating glance upon Genevieve,
but as the latter volunteered no confidences, it-was
not for her to suggest or caution ; so she
held her peace, contenting herself with praying,
night-and morning, for the triumph of the
righteous and the discomfiture of the wicked,
and Inwardly attaching a specific application to
her petition which her idea of Christian charity
forbade her to state In plain terms.

Autumn was now stealing on apace, and the
day following that of Lord Courtney's friendly

mission proved dull, damp, and foggy. Towards
afternoon Mr. Gervis, who had a touch
of rheumatism and had been vainly trying, all
day, to find some place near the library fire free
from piercing draughts, grew restless, and,
donning a fur-lined coat, had himself driven
down to Beachborough to call upon his old
friend Mrs. Knowles. He had of late fallen
into the habit of occasionally dropping in towards
five o'clock to beg for a cup of tea in
South Crescent, where he knew that he could
count upon a welcome, and possibly also upon
a little of that tacit sympathy for which even
the hardest-hearted of men must sometimes
experience a craving. These two people, so
dissimilar in tastes, opinions, and ways of life,
were yet mutually attached. Each had soon
recognized in the other a fund of sagacity
enlivened by a keen sense of the drier kind of
humour ; each found the other an amusing
study. They understood one another, or at
least fancied they did so ; which, for all ordinary
purposes, is much the same thing. But
there was a stronger link than any of these
between them in the common memory of a
far-away time when George III. had only just
ceased to reign, and railways were not, and the
Knowledges of Stone Hall used to drive up to

London once in every two years or so, in a
heavy carriage drawn by four post-horses — of
a merry little society whose members, for the
most part, had been gathered to their fathers
many years back — of who knows what foolish
old jokes and quarrels and reconciliations and
forgotten scandals ? These two, then, would
have become cronies for old sake's sake, if for
no other reason ; nor was the harmony of their
relations likely to be interrupted, during the
remainder of their earthly course, either by
diversity of opinion or the amiable calumny
of friends, or indeed by anything, unless perhaps,
for a time, by some freak on the part of
the lady, whose temper has ever been counted
a trifle uncertain.

Possibly Mrs. Knowles may herself have
been suffering from some one of the aches and
pains incidental to advanced years when Gervis
came shivering into her drawing-room to bemoan
his rheumatism ; for it was clear that
something had ruffled her ; and instead of condoling
with her visitor, she merely threw up
her head and snorted, after a fashion that she
has when the weaknesses of her fellow-mortals
are more than usually apparent to her.

'' Serve you right ! " quoth she, unfeelingly.
'' Rheumatism indeed ! I should think so,

when you take no healthy exercise, and go
about with a thing like that " (pointing with
supreme contempt at Mr. Gervis's sable-lined
coat) 'eon your shoulders ! How much younger
are you than I ? Ten years ? — fifteen years ?
Yes, I must be fifteen years your senior, if I
am a day, and yet I believe I could make a
better bargain with an insurance company than
you could. You don't see me lolling about in
arm-chairs, and, please God, you never will.
I have no patience with people who wear out
their constitutions when they are young, and
then grumble because they are good for nothing
at three score years and ten."

*'Ah, there at least I have the advantage of
you," remarked Gervis, placidly. " I have an
abundance of patience, if I have nothing else.
And that is very fortunate, because all you
good people hereabouts seem determined to
give me every opportunity of exercising it.
For the rest, I fully admit your superiority tome,
both in body and mind. I am a mere
wreck."

Hum ! I shall not contradict you. You
have only yourself to thank. If you had leda
decent, respectable life, as an English gentleman
should, you would have been able to enjoy
a day's shooting or a gallop after the hounds

now as well as anybody. As it is, I believe
you enjoy nothing."

Except a cup of your tea and your conversation
; and they are both so excellent, you
know. You are already favouring me with a
delightful sample of the one ; might I be made
quite happy with a little of the other ? "

*' Oh yes, you shall have your tea," answered
Mrs. Knowles, ringing the bell, "It is a poor
sort of drink for a man ; but there ! — I dare say
it keeps you from worse habits. You were
saying that somebody had been trying your
patience."

Not somebody ; everybody. Or rather
they have all been endeavouring to do so.
It is true that they have not met with much
success ; but that is only because I happen to
be protected by an armour of indifference which
I will modestly defy any one's impertinence to
fierce. An ordinary man might certainly find
it rather surprising that everybody within a
radius of fifteen miles or so should assume the
right to lecture him and offer him advice upon
his domestic affairs."

Mrs. Knowles said, " Not at all surprising.
Were people to let a man fall asleep, and drive
into a morass, without shouting to him ? "

Mr. Gervis replied that a man who was

driving his own horses in his own way, and
was not at all asleep, would be justified in
turning round and swearing at any fool who
made him jump by yelling after him.

Maybe so," said Mrs. Knowles in a determined
voice ; " but you are not going to put
me off like that, let me tell you. What do
you propose to do with that boy of yours ?
Answer me that."

I propose," answered Gervis slowly, " to do
nothing with him. I propose, within certain
limits, to let him do what he likes with himself.
He is of age."

So the blind man's parents in the Gospel
said, when they wanted to shirk responsibility.
The truth is, Vincent Gervis, that you have
been a selfish man all your life, and soon you
will reap the crop you have sown, as it is just
and proper that you should. I say nothing
about your daughter ; because you could not
be expected to know how to bring up a girl,
and you have very judiciously left her in the
hands of that worthy old Potts, who does
know. Moreover, I have a notion that her
will is as strong as yours, and that she will
choose her husband for herself, when the time
comes, whether you like it or whether you
don't. But I tell you plainly that you have

not done your duty by Claud. You want a
companion forsooth to sail with you to Hongkong
or Yokohama, or some such heathenish
places, and so you take the lad away from
school at the most critical time of his life ;
you interrupt his education ; you stuff his
head full of cynical maxims and show him the
world before he can understand it ; and finally
you cast him loose, without a profession or
occupation of any sort or kind to scare the
devil away with. I should like to know what
you think will become of him. If he does
not go to the bad, it will be no thanks to you,
my friend. You have been kind to him after
a fashion, because, I suppose, you happened
to get on well together ; but in my opinion
he owes you nothing : and if you expect him
to honour his father, you are expecting too
much, and will in all probability be disappointed."


"I am not so unreasonable," answered
Gervis, sipping his tea. " Your description of
me, my dear Mrs. Knowles, is delightfully
accurate ; and I am sure you will be pleased
to hear that I have not a word to say for
myself I suppose nothing can be more
certain than that I ought to have put Claud
into some profession. I have no objection.

however, to telling you as an old friend, how
it was that I came to remove him from Eton.
I was under the impression at the time that
I should not live through another year. My
doctor gave me to understand as much, and
I naturally supposed that he knew what he
was talking about. Under the circumstances,
I thought it advisable that Claud should see
.something of the world (I did not take him
to Yokohama by-the-by) before finding himself
burdened with a considerable fortune, and
other cares which I need not enter upon.
I feel that I owe him an apology for surviving
; and, what with rheumatism and one
thing and another, this world is really not such
an abode of bliss that I should be very reluctant
to leave it. But it is not my fault that
I am still here, is it ? "

'well, no," answered Mrs. Knowles, somewhat
mollified. " And I am sure I hope you
have a long lease of life yet to run. But all
this must have been a good five years ago."

Quite so. I understand what you mean ;
and I plead guilty. However, what is done is
done. I can't put him into a cavalry regiment
now ; and, as a pis-aller, I intend, as I said
before, to let him follow his own devices.
Also, as I said before, within certain limits.

Can you suggest any improvement upon that
design ? "

Mrs. Knowles rubbed her chin. '' I don't
know that I can. The question is, what are
his devices, and what do you mean by certain
limits?"

Mr. Gervis laid his head on one side, and
smiled, without replying. Thereupon Mrs.
Knowles had a sudden return of irritation.
"Well, well," said she; ''I am only an old
woman, and I don't suppose I shall do any
good by meddling. Let us change the subject.
How long are you going to remain at South-lands
? Why don't you go off somewhere in
that yacht of yours, since you dislike this
climate so much ? "

'' I shall never yacht any more," answered
Gervis. '' I am getting too old to like being
tossed about. I shall stay where I am, I
think ; or, if it becomes quite intolerable here,
perhaps I may go up to London for a time.
But I can send Claud away at any moment,
if that is what you mean. We understand one
another's ways ; and really, do you know, he
has more common sense than you give him
credit for."

Mrs. Knowles shook her head, and murmured
that these things were not a question of common

VOL. II. H

sense ; but she did not mention to what things
she alluded ; nor did Mr. Gervis ask her to
explain herself.

Did you ever chance," he inquired, after a
short interval of silence, '' to come across an
amphibious being of the name of Burvill in any
of your charitable expeditions ? "

Oh dear, yes ; and a lazy, good-for-nothing
old sot he is too. Has he been imposing upon
you, eh ? "

"Not exactly that; but it happened that, a
short time ago, I was in a position to do him
a small service ; and by way of showing his
gratitude, he came up, the other day, to blacken
the character of some of my friends, and to
warn me solemnly against nursing vipers in my
bosom. It appears that I am an object of
solicitude to all classes."

Did he ? I should never have given the
man credit for so much good feeling. You
may put it as you like, but to my mind it
speaks well for him that he should have
troubled himself at all in the matter. It really
was a thoughtful thing to do,"

"Was it not ? He could have done no more
if he had been the lord-lieutenant himself — and
so I told him. Only, as he was not the lord-lieutenant,
and could therefore be insulted with

impunity, I made so bold as to add that he was
a malicious rascal, and probably a liar into the
bargain. After which, I gave him half-a-crown
and commended him to the keeping of the
devil."

What a shocking way of speaking ! I
wonder he didn't knock you down."

*' I gave him the half-crown first, you see."

'* And what, pray, was it that he told you ? "
asked Mrs. Knowles, who, I fear, is not
altogether exempt from that feminine inquisitiveness
which she condemns so strongly in
younger people.

"Well, he brought some specific charges
against Miss Flemyng, I believe," answered
Gervis, getting up slowly, and struggling into
his coat. ''If I remember rightly, he had seen
her kissing somebody — her father, no doubt, or
one of her brothers, who, I am told, assemble
here in large numbers towards Christmas-time.
But, to tell you the truth, Mrs. Knowles, I did
not care to pursue the subject, feeling that it
was one which could never possess even the
remotest interest for me. I am afraid I must
tear myself away now. Many thanks for your
tea and your well-deserved rebuke. It will
interest you to hear that I am aching from head
to foot, and have every prospect of a sleepless
night before me in which to ponder it."

And SO Mr. Gervis took his leave.

Mrs. Knowles has an ancient and valuable
maid, who has dressed and undressed her fora
trifle of half a century, and to whom she
confides some of the vexations of the day
before going to sleep. After she had hoisted
herself into bed that night, she sat up, and thus
addressed this trusty attendant :

Forbes, I am troubled in my mind. There
Is a very nice young gentleman of my acquaintance
who has fallen deeply in love with a young
lady who may have her faults, but who, taking
her all in all, may pass for a tolerably nice
young lady, as young ladies go. He is too
young to marry ; and if anything had come of
this, very likely I should have been sorry ; but
now nothing is going to come of it, and I am
still more sorry."

Dear, dear ! have the young lady refused
him, mum ?" Forbes asks, with sympathetic
Interest.

'not she ! But you see, Forbes, my young
gentleman Is dependent upon a father, who has
about as much heart in him as a jelly-fish. So
there will be weeping and wailing, and everything
will go . wrong. Ah, well ! I daresay
they will get over it."

*' They generally do, mum," observes the

sagacious Forbes, withdrawing without asking
for further information. Probably her mistress
could have told her nothing that she had not
known, and fully discussed with Mr. Hicks,

long ago.

CHAPTER V.

THE DAYS THAT ARE NO MORE.

It will be seen, from the brief conversation
reported at the end of the last chapter, that
Mrs. Knowles, despite the hard common sense
with which she is universally credited, has in
her heart that love of romance and fellow-feeling
for young lovers which all good women
retain up to their dying day. It is probable,
however, that in watching the love-making of
others from her present standpoint, she may
have forgotten some few of the sensations
incidental to that delightful process, and have
imagined that, when two people are attached
to one another, the fact must be as obvious to
themselves as to lookers-on. For we all know
what strange tricks perspective will play with
distant views, and certainly It Is some little
time since my grandfather went courting under
the elms on summer mornings, anno Domini

1 81 7. Mrs. Knowles, then, perceived that the
course of Claud's love was not likely to run
smooth, but saw no obstacle in its way, save
the sufficiently formidable one of Mr. Jervis
opposition ; and doubtless she would have been
both surprised and amused had she known
that our modest hero was losing a large part
of his proper share of sleep every night through
the dread, not of paternal prohibition (to which
danger, indeed, he had not given a thought),
but of unrequited affection.

It is true that he was already almost accepted
as one of the family at the Moated House, that
Mr. Flemyng's demeanour towards him had
entered upon a quasi-benedictory phase, and
that Miss Flemyng herself, though not exactly
appearing to seek his society, was generally
careful to provide him with some excellent
pretext for seeking hers ; but all this seemed
to prove very little, when set against sundry
agonies of jealousy roused by Ninass reception
of other young men, who, in the natural course
of things, visited at the house every now and
again. There was one terrible day when the
officious dragoon before alluded to tooled the
regimental drag over from Lynchester, and,
after remaining to luncheon and monopolizing
the whole conversation, actually took Miss

Flemyng away for a long drive. He had
brought the colonel's wife with him, so that
it was all quite right and proper, and he
omitted to offer a seat to Claud, whose presence,
in fact, he had persistently ignored from
the first. Upon another occasion there turned
up a certain yachtsman of engaging personal
appearance, but with disgustingly free manners,
who had put into Beachborough for a day, and
who was easily prevailed upon to dine at the
Moated House. This interloper not only
devoted himself exclusively to his fair hostess,
but had the bad taste to entertain her with
allusions to persons and places of which others
present knew nothing : while she, alas ! encouraged
him, listened with interest to his
pointless anecdotes, laughed at his feeble jokes,
remained for an unconscionable time alone with
him in the garden after dinner, and finally gave
him a rose to take away with him.

At such times as these Claud would inwardly
rage and fume, heaping vituperative epithets
upon himself and others, and declaring to
himself that the girl was a heartless coquette,
that he had been a fool to take her seriously,
and that he would assuredly do so no longer.
It was all supremely ridiculous, no doubt ; but
it seems just possible that some reader of these

words may remember to have been almost as
absurd himself, once upon a time, and will
therefore make allowances for Claud's temporary
idiocy. Moreover, Nina was unquestionably
even more capricious and perplexing
in her ways than the generality of her charming
sex. One day she would be melancholy,
dreamy, sentimental ; the next she would affecta
hardened disbelief in all the finer feelings of
our nature, and would nip every approach to
tenderness in the bud by laughter too hearty
to be feigned. Sometimes she was silent ;
sometimes she was discouragingly friendly ;
sometimes she looked bored, and confessed that
she was so with every appearance of sincerity.
I can't tell what occult pleasure the feminine
mind derives from conduct of this sort, nor
why young women should thus delight in
torturing their prey — what should I, celebes,
know of such matters ? — but I am given to
understand that, to borrow Mrs. Forbes's comprehensive
expression, " they generally do."
Doubtless they understand what they are about,
and are aware that there are very few lovers in
the world so faint-hearted as to be dissuaded
from their purpose by the vagaries of the
beloved object. Certainly Claud was not one
of these, sundry asseverations, prompted by

jealousy, notwithstanding. Like all his family,
he had an immense supply of latent obstinacy ;
and, having once realized that Nina Flemyng
was absolutely necessary to his happiness, he
registered an inward vow that, sooner or later,
she should bear his name.

At a subsequent period of his life he was
kind enough to inform me of the exact date on
which this modest determination was arrived
at.

"It was on the twenty-third of September —
a soft, misty, melancholy sort of afternoon —
and I was walking through the woods towards
the church, where I knew that she was helping
the parson's daughters to put up the harvest
decorations. I don't know whether it was the
sight of the falling leaves and the feeling that
summer was dead and gone, or whether it was
the remembrance of some vague hints which
the governor had let fall, at breakfast time,
about sending me round in the yacht to meet
him at Marseilles ; but somehow or other, it
seemed to come over me all of a sudden that
there would have to be an end to all this, and
that I was very near it. I dare say you will
hardly believe me ; but it is the simple truth
that, up to that moment, I had never once
asked myself what that end was to be."

Here Claud's ingenuous biographer expresses
much surprise ; and the young man continues :
Don't misunderstand me. Of course I had
known all along that, in a general sort of way,
love leads to marriage, just as life leads to death
you needn't smile ; I am not suggesting any
analogies — but till then I had not thought much
more about my wedding than I do now about
my funeral ; and between ourselves, I doubt
very much whether anybody ever does turn
his mind to either of those ceremonies before
he is obliged. Well, you know, there always
comes a time when one has to face realities ;
and it came to me that afternoon in the woods.
I could show you the very spot where I stood
under a beech-tree, and swore that Nina Flemyng
should be Nina Gervis. You know with what
result ; but this was the way of it."

Claud has a sufficiently graphic, though
somewhat disjointed, method of narration.
Perhaps the subsequent events of that memorable
afternoon may as well be related in his
words as in mine.

"It was past five o'clock, and growing dark
in that grey weather, when I got to the church.
I pushed the door open softly, and peeped in.
There she was, on the steps leading up to the
chancel, holding a wreath of hops In her hand

with a group of those sturdy Pardon girls a
little below her, and St. John, the curate, in his
cassock, by her side. I never could stand that
fellow — I don't know why. They had twined
hops round the pillars, and stuck wheat and
barley everywhere, and filled the embrasures
of the windows with the kindly fruits of the
earth, in the shape of turnips and swedes and
I don't know what other appropriate monstrosities,
and now, I suppose, they were taking
a final complacent survey of their handiwork.
Can't you see it all ? — the little dark church,
with its hideous modern east-window looking
quite soft and beautiful in the twilight ; J achy
and Tommy, evidently up to some mischief or
other, moving stealthily about in the background
; the Miss Pardons, thickset, robust
specimens of the British maiden ; the priest
in his long soutane; and that perfect figure
standing out from among them all, like — like
upon my word, I don't know what she was
like. I was insanely in love at the time, and
perhaps I may have compared her mentally to
some saintly apparition, surrounded by a knot
of mere mortals— which simile, I see, has the
effect of choking you with suppressed laughter.
Laugh out loud, if you like ; don't mind me.
Saint or sinner, there never was a more 

creature ; and who with eyes
in his head could have helped adoring her
beauty ?

'* After a time the children caught sight of
the manly shape in the doorway, and came
running up to whisper to me that they had
concealed a string of onions in the pulpit and
had put some hard turnips under the cushions
of the Rectory pew, in the corner where fat
Mrs. Pardon used to sit. And then the others
turned round, and advanced down the aisle ina
little procession ; and very soon we had all
said good-night, and she and I were walking
back through the woods together. We had
got rid of the children, I forget by what stratagem,
and were tolerably certain of not encountering
another human being on our way. So
you see, if opportunity was what I wanted,
there was nothing to complain of.

*' She was in one of her silent, abstracted
moods, and I remember that neither of us
spoke a word for quite a long time — not until
we were well into the thick of the woods.
Then I said something about not having known
before that she was such a zealous church-woman
; (for just before we started, I had
heard that fellow St. John reproaching her
with her long neglect of the daily services) and

I asked her whether she had a weakness for
forms and ceremonies.

' I go in for them by fits and starts she
answered. 'When I am sick of the world,
I fall back upon the Church — for a week or
two. Once upon a time I used to fancy I
should like to be a very good woman ; and I
did make one vigorous attempt. For about
two months I got on capitally. I fasted all
through Lent, and rose at unearthly hours, so
as to be present at matins, where the congregation
generally consisted of the Pardons and
myself, and I studied a number of pretty little
illuminated books, which Mr. St. John gave
me, and altogether discharged my duties in a
manner that gave satisfaction to the clergy of
the parish. But when it came to the chapter
of good works I broke down. I couldn't stand
stuffy cottages and dirty people, who had unpleasant
things the matter with them and
delighted in thrusting horrors under my very
nose. I gave it all up, and fell back into my
old bad ways. The London season happened
to be in full swing at the time; so I got an
invitation from somebody, and fled ; and since
then I have confined my religious exercises
to decorating the church and singing in the
choir.'

'' ' You do visit the poor sometimes, all the
same,' I put in. For you see, I did not choose
that my ideal should .have any flaws ; and it is
a fact that, only a few days before, she had
refused to go out riding with me on the plea
that she had to take some port wine to an old
woman in the village.

' That was only a bit of show-off,' she
answered coolly, when I reminded her of this
incident. ' I wanted to make an impression
upon you. If you hadn't been there, the wine
would have been sent down by a servant, as
usual.'

'' I told her plainly that I had two good
reasons for disbelieving that assertion. First :
that I knew perfectly well that she never tried
to impose upon anybody (which was true, mind
you), and second : that I could not flatter
myself that she cared so much as that for my
good opinions Besides,' I added, ' my opinion
of you was formed long ago — if that is of any
importance — and no self-disparagement of yours
is likely to alter it.'

"At that she laughed. 'You are a poet,'
she said ; ' your imagination turns geese into
swans, and women into angels. And after all,
why not ? I only wish I could feel as you do.'

'' And then she began quoting some lines out

of that silly little volume of mine. It was a
silly little collection of rubbish, eh, Knowles ? "

Claud, at the time of this conversation, was
in a position to listen with equanimity to criticisms
upon his earlier efforts ; so I felt no
difficulty in replying that 'there and There"
was not, in my poor judgment, likely to add
much to its author's fame.

*eyes — well — I know. But supposing that
you were a very young author and very much
in love, and that you were hearing the most
adorable voice In the world reciting your compositions
in a soft undertone, don't you think
you would discover beauties in them whose
existence you had never suspected before?
I am not more vain than another, but I am free
to confess that, as I listened, my own feeble
words sounded as musical to me as any that
Alfred de Musset had ever written. It was a
little song that she quoted — some stanzas
headed ' Les Blenheureux,' the burden of which
was that there was no need for men to be forever
straining their eyes towards some faraway
future heaven, since heaven was here,
around us, for those who were not too blind to
discern it. Cieux — yeux — bie7iheui^eux — you
perceive how easily the beauties of Nature, the
achievements of art and the smiles of the

beloved could be made to furnish the requisite
number of lines and rhymes. Now that I
am grown so old and wise, and know the
world so well, I have of course found out that
these sentiments have neither the advantage of
novelty nor of truth to recommend them ; but
In spite of that, and of — other changes that have
taken place, I love the old song still, and every
now and then, when I am in a sentimental
mood, I find myself humming It over sotto voce.
It isn't of the meaning of the words that I
think — ' See-saw, Margery Daw ' would do as
well — but of those autumn woods, and the
fading grey light, and Nina walking beside mein
her tight-fitting homespun dress. I was
absurdly flattered and delighted at this proof
of her having studied my works. I could not
at all express what I felt, and stammered out
I hardly remember what Incoherent rhapsodies,
to which she seemed to lend a rather inattentive
ear. She Interrupted me without ceremony
when we reached an open space, where they
had been cuttlnor down, and where numbers of
faggots where piled up, ready to be carted away.
A sudden Idea had occurred to her.

'' ' Let us sit down and make a fire,' she said.
If there is a thing I love, it Is a fire out of
doors ; and my hands are frozen.'

VOL. II. I

I hesitated for a moment ; for I knew very
little of country life at that time, and I was not
sure whether we might not be arrested for stealing
wood, or run some risk of burning down the
whole plantation. But, dear me ! I would have
set the Thames on fire, or tried to do so, if she
had ordered it ; so I collected the driest sticks I
could find, and very soon, with the help of some
old letters which she produced from her pocket,
we had kindled as cheery a bonfire as you could
wish to see, and she was sitting on the ground,
holding up her hands to the blaze. Such
hands ! I don't know whether you have ever
happened to notice them ; but if you have, you
must be aware that they are Ninass strongest
point. As I saw them then, with the red light
of the flames shining between the taper fingers,
and striking out flashes from the diamond rings
upon them, I thought to myself that they could
have no rivals in the world. And for that
matter, I think so still.

Well ; I sat for some time, watching those
marvellous hands in speechless admiration, and
listening to the crackling of the sticks, and to
another strange sound that there was in the air.
Do you know the noise that distant flocks of
sheep make when they are being driven into
fold in the evening ? It is a most curious, indescribable

sound, like a continuous murmur of
human voices rising and falling In the far, far
distance — a mournful uncanny kind of sound. I
can never hear It now without a sick sensation
of regret and yearning, and — • — but no matter.
You would never understand how the bleating
of a prosaic sheep could suggest romantic fancies
to anybody. Between ourselves, I tried once
to make It the theme of a poetical fragment ;
but I found that It really wouldn't do.

*' I was saying that I sat for a long time
beside her, without saying a word. You see,
we had passed beyond the region of small-talk.
If I had opened my lips at all, I must have
blurted out a passionate declaration ; and this I
would not do ; because, if you must know the
truth, I was frightened. It was all very well to
assure myself that I must succeed, and would ;
but when It came to the push, how could I help
feeling that It was the height of audacity In me
to aspire to the heart of this beautiful and
fastidious creature, and that it would be quite
in accordance with what I knew of her if she
were to receive my vows with a peal of
laughter ?

However, I kept edging nearer and nearer
to her, as she sat, lost in thought, staring at the
leaping flames ; and at last she turned her head

all of a sudden, and looked at me. And then —
ah, my dear Knowles, I am not going to tell
you what happened then. With your experience
and your imaginative gifts, you ought to have
no difficulty in filling up a blank space of ten
minutes or so. Anyhow, I don't care to talk
much about it. Good Heavens ! how happy I
was ! I wonder how many times I made her
repeat ' I love you ! — -I love you ! ' It all seemed
too wonderful, too beautiful to be real ; and If I
could have made Time stand still then, the world
would never have grown any older from that day
to this. It was perfect felicity. I wanted nothing
more. It only comes once in a life-time ; that
sort of thing, doesn't it ? Or do you think, as
she did, that love Is a kind of intermittent fever,
which recurs at regular intervals, runs its course,
and leaves the patient no worse than he was
before ?

I don't know what ecstatic nonsense I may
have talked during those first moments of bliss ;
but no doubt I said something about that absurd
wish of mine that all the future could be condensed
into one long present ; for I well remember
how she brought me, back to my senses
with a laugh that ended In a sigh.

' You are like me then,' she said ; ' you are
afraid of the future.'

' Afraid ? ' I echoed, * No, I am not afraid ;
why should I be ? All I intended to say was
that no future can be dci^er than this.'

' No,' she said ; ' there never can be anything
better. We are both happy now. It is
all very sweet and beautiful ; but it will not
last — and that is the pity of it.'

*' She had said, or at least hinted, as much tome
a hundred times before ; and I had been
used to laugh at her and call her a cynic and a
pessimist when she expounded her dreary views
of human life and character ; but it vexed me
that she should take up that tone then, and I
asked her rather indignantly whether she
doubted me. She made no reply ; so I said,
Perhaps you are not sure of yourself.'

' Perhaps not,' she answered, quietly and
sadly.

This was dreadful. I withdrew my arm
from her waist ; I dropped her hand, and
stammered out that, if that were so — if that

were so The remainder of my sentence

somehow stuck in my throat.

But she took my hand again, and began
turning the ring on my little finger round and
round, while she spoke in that caressing voice
of hers. * Don't be angry with me. Don't let
us quarrel already. Is it my fault that I can't.

for the life of me, help seeing the truth ? I
wish I didn't. It would be much pleasant
if I could deceive myself, as other people do.
I know you love me, Claud ; and if you could
look into my heart, you would find that I love
you too, beyond everything in the world. What
more can I say ? If you think that we shall
go on for ever loving each other as wee do now,
you are wrong. It can't be so. It never was
so, and it never will be. What made you fall
in love with me ? You won't answer me truly ;
and perhaps you don't know. But I know.
It was because I have a pretty face, which you
will tire of in a year or tvv^o, and which will
grow ugly besides. It was because your fancy
was taken by something in my manner of
talking or walking, or I don't know what about
me. But you will get familiar with all that,
and it will soon lose its charm. Love is not
eternal. There is a sober kind of steady affection
which may succeed to it, if all goes well ;
but that is not the same thing ; and when one
looks at the households of one's friends, and
when one remembers all the worries and misunderstandings
that are sure to crop up between
two people who have to live together, it seems
as if the chances were against even so much as
that. And as for the love that you and I have

now, and would die rather than lose, it must go.
We shall lose it, and we shall not die, or want
to die — there is the curse of humanity. People
persuade themselves that love will last for ever
at all events in their own case. Just in the
same way nine-tenths of the world persuade
themselves there is a God and a future life —
not because they are convinced, but because it
would be too miserable to doubt. That is why
I go in for religion by fits and starts, as I told
you just now. For, after all, I am made of the
same clay as the rest of them, and am only a
woman besides. Sometimes I can humbugs
myself a little ; but when my head is quite clear
and my eyes wide open, I see, as Solomon saw,
that all things are altogether vanity, and that
there is one end to all, and that all that cometh
is vanity.'

I can't tell you how long she went on in
this strain. I have never heard her speak with
anything like the same seriousness upon any
subject since. I haven't repeated the half of
what she said, and of course it is impossible
to make you understand the horrible conviction
that her words seemed to carry with them.
But it was hardly likely that I should allow
myself to yield to the influence of such gloomy
forebodings. I listened as long as I could, and

when I could not bear it any longer, I stopped
her. I broke out into an excited tirade, which
I won't inflict upon you ; I swore that, whatever
the love of other men might be, mine should
end only with my existence, and that I would
make her love me too in the same way, in spite
of all. And then she drew me towards her,
and stroked my hair, and called me a foolish
boy ; and so we made friends. Oh, dear ! I
think I have talked nearly enough now, haven't
I ? How infernally hot this room is ! My
drink is finished, and my tale is told, and my
cigar is gone out, and it is high time for you to
be in bed, old Knowles. Give me a tumbler
of something with ice in it, and let us be ofT."

Claud dined with me, the other day, at my
club, and afterwards made the foregoing confession
to me in the smoking-room, where I
noticed that a good many of the members
stared at him, wondering perhaps who was the
handsome, foreign-looking fellow who was discoursing
with such a profusion of gesture and
animation to his friend with the grizzled beard.
Possibly some of them may have known already ;
for Claud's name has been mentioned with
tolerable frequency in London of late.

But it is in the events of his past, not of his
present life, that the reader is supposed to be
interested.

CHAPTER VI.

MR. Jervis's VIEWS.

Claud returned to Southlands in such a state
of radiant happiness, his behaviour during
dinner was marked by so much absence of
mind and indifference to the food set before
him, and his answers to the most ordinary
questions were of so ridiculously irrelevant a
character, that he might just as well have
divulged the events of the afternoon there and
then. He preferred, however, to keep what
he was pleased to consider his secret all to
himself for another twelve hours ; and no
doubt he went to bed as happy as a king, and
slept more soundly than he had any right todo
under the circumstances.

But in due course came the morning, and
with it the disagreeable necessity for a few
words with the head of the family — a necessity
rendered doubly disagreeable by that gentleman's

demeanour at breakfast. It cannot be
said that Mr. Gervis was ever in a bad temper,
properly so called ; but there were days on
which it was useless to expect anything from
him In the shape of sympathy, pity, or favour ;
and those who knew him best had learnt to
discern the advent of one of these stormy
periods by certain infallible signs. For instance,
a particular attention to dress was
evidence, so to speak, of unsettled atmospheric
conditions ; crreat deference of manner and
mellifiuousness of lanoruao^e mip;ht be taken to
mean, "Barometer falling; hoist south cone;"
and a short dry cough, recurring at frequent
intervals, indicated the approach of a large and
deep depression. Now when our luckless lover
saw his father arrayed in a perfectly new suit
of blue serge ; when he heard solicitous inquiries
addressed to Miss Potts on the subject
of her cold and apologies to Genevieve for the
trouble to which she was put in pouring out
a second cup of coffee ; when, finally, he was
himself greeted by the expression of a hope
that he had slept well, nothing more than the
subdued " Ahem ! " which followed was needed
to make what he had to expect obvious to him.
He foresaw that his news would meet with a
discouraging reception, that he would certainly

be snubbed and sneered at, and that he would
probably be made to feel excessively uncomfortable
before he had said his say. Still, the
thing had to be done, and there was no use
in putting off the evil moment. So, when Mr.
Gervis rose at length from the breakfast-table
and walked slowly into the library, Claud
followed him thither, and opened fire rather
nervously.

Governor," he began, fidgeting about the
room in a way vv^hich he knew that his father
disliked, but which he felt, for the moment
quite powerless to control, " I am going to
make you laugh."

Gervis, who had already settled himself in
an arm-chair and had opened a book, looked
up, and said '' Yes ? " with an air of resigned
urbanity.

You will think it utterly absurd," continued
Claud incoherently, " very natural, I'm sure ;
and so it is, in a way — only every one must
choose for himself, as I have often heard you
say ; and what is one man's meat is another
man's poison. I know I am a great deal too
young for that kind of thing — at least, from
your point of view ; but there again you can't
lay down any hard and fast rule; and if you
knew all about it from the beginning — but it's

SO confoundedly difficult to explain, and "

Here the speaker's voice sank into an unintelligible
murmur.

I beg your pardon a thousand times," said
Gervis, suavely ; " but at the risk of being
considered hopelessly dull, I must confess that
I have not the least idea of what you are
talking about."

'' I know. I haven't begun yet. I — oh,
bother! The long and the short of it is,
governor, that I am going to be married.
Now ! "

"• That," said Mr. Gervis, with cool deliberation,
'' is undoubtedly a capital joke. There is
a dry humour about it, and about your manner
of delivering it, which I quite appreciate. But,
as Lord Chesterfield justly observes, true wit
never yet excited laughter ; so I hope you will
pardon my not bursting into a loud guffaw.
Pray, when did you form this — remarkable
determination ? "

'' Only yesterday afternoon," answered Claud,
trying not to look shamefaced, and failing
lamentably. *' At least, things were not settled
till then."

And you let me into the secret of your
plans already ! Really that is most considerate
of you."

After this there was a silence which Claud
hardly knew how to break. Finding, however,
that his father showed no disposition to help
him out, he resumed, at last, timidly —

You haven't asked the lady's name."

Let me see. There are five unmarried ladies
In the neighbourhood with whom you are, I
believe, tolerably intimate — Lady Croft, Mrs.
Knowles, INIIss Potts, Miss Croft, and Miss
Flemyng. The three first may be considered,
for various reasons, as ineligible ; and we thus
find the list narrowed to two. Perhaps I may
go so far as to hazard a conjecture that Miss
Flemyng is the person whom you have honoured
by your preference."

Claud nodded.

I congratulate you upon your good taste.
And do I understand that you have proposed to
her, and that she has accepted you ? "

Claud nodded again.

Ah ! And may I inquire In what way you
propose to support yourself and your wife ? It
is a matter of minor importance, no doubt ; but
it is one upon which I feel some curiosity."

The blood rushed into Claud's cheeks. This
question, which to most sons placed as he was
would have appeared natural and inevitable,
found him wholly unprepared with a reply. His

MATRIMONY.

whole training had led him to regard money asa
mere appendage of civilized existence, a useful
article which some people were so unfortunate
as to lack, but which possessed no intrinsic
claim upon the attention of those who had
enough of it for their wants. He had never
been put upon an allowance, or requested to
render an account of his expenditure. His
father had paid all bills and had furnished him
with what pocket-money he required, and it had
not once occurred to him to regard himself in
any other light than that of a rich man. While
dressing, that morning, and sketching out
sundry Indefinite plans for the future, he had
fancied it not unlikely that Southlands might be
assigned to him as his residence. And now he
was asked in what way he proposed to support
himself! He had nothing to say, and could
only stare blankly at his bland interrogator.

*' Because, you know," pursued Mr. Gervis,
after waiting in vain for an answer, *you are
entirely dependent upon me for the necessaries
of life ; and I can hardly suppose you so ignorant
of all my wishes and convictions as to imagine
that I should supply you with the means of
committing a sort of moral suicide. You have
so often heard me state my views upon marriage
in general, and early marriages in particular.

that I feel It would be a sheer waste of tune to
repeat them now. Some day or other you will,
no doubt, take a wife ; very few men have the
luck or the sense to remain bachelors all their
lives. But you will not (If I can prevent It)
marry for many years to come ; nor will you (If
I can prevent It) marry Miss Flemyng."

I swear I will never marry any one else""
broke In Claud, resolutely, and rather defiantly.

No, no ; don't swear ; what Is the use ?'
Your common sense must tell you that you are
entirely in my power, and that you have no
alternative but to yield to my wishes, whether
you think them unreasonable or not. I am sorry
for you ; but It can't be helped."

I am of age," said Claud.

'' Yes ; but I hold the purse-strings ; so that,
for all practical purposes, you might just as well
be an infant."

Claud turned on his heel, and walked away
to the window. He was determined not to lose
his temper, and just at that moment he could
not trust himself to speak. For some minutes
he remained gazing out at the grey landscape
and the leaves that were whirling down from
the trees In the park ; then he came back slowly,
and stood, with one elbow upon the mantelpiece
looking down upon his father.

"Listen, governor. If you have a strong
will, so have I. We won't quarrel over it ; but
if one of us is to yield, I shall not be that one.
I can't deny your power to keep me for sometime
to come in a condition of slavery, or, as
you say, infancy ; but this I want to know :
have you brought about this absurd state of
affairs deliberately and designedly ? Because,
if so, I think I have a fair right to say that no
one was ever more unjustly treated. It seems
to me that I was entitled to one of two things —
either to be brought up as the heir to a considerable
property, and to be given a sufficient
income to live as heirs of rich men generally
do, or to be put in the way of earning my own
livelihood. As for being kept like a pet dog,
and allowed every luxury, provided I do not disobey
my master, I tell you frankly that that does
not suit me at all, and that I will not submit toit
one hour longer than is absolutely necessary.
I would rather break stones on the road."

'' Yes ; that is your case," said Mr. Gervis
calmly, " and I admit that it is a strong one. I
will recur to it presently. In the meantime,
allow me very briefly to state my own. To
begin with, I need scarcely point out to you
that in what I do I can have no other aim than
to serve your interests. Were I to consult my

personal comfort, I should let everybody go to
the deuce In his own way ; for if I have a
weakness, It Is for peace and quietness, and
If there Is one thing that I dislike more than
another, It is a scene such as we are now
struggling through — with some degree of propriety,
I am glad to say ; still with much
discomfort on both sides. To expect you to
believe that I know better than you do what is
for your happiness would be to expect a
miracle ; nevertheless, so it Is ; and I have
to shape my conduct in accordance with facts,
not fancies. I might, of course, have put a
stop to your little affaire de coett7' long ago ;
but It seemed to me much wiser not to Interfere.
Affaires de coeitr are very good things, and, at
your age, simply inevitable. They elevate,
they refine, they give knowledge of feminine
nature, which Is a very necessary subject for
men of the world to be acquainted with ; and
some people, I believe, find them pleasant to
look back upon In after life. According to my
lights, nothing more fortunate can happen to a
young fellow than to fall in love with an agreeable,
clever married woman a few years older
than himself, and, If possible, a step or two
above him in rank. There Is little or no risk
in affairs of that description, and as a part of

VOL. II. K

education they are Invaluable. Young girls are
less improving and more dangerous ; because
in their case the question of marriage is apt to
crop up, and "

Excuse my interrupting you," said Claud,
who had listened to this leisurely dissertation
with ill-disguised impatience ; " but will you
tell me whether you have any objection to urge
against Nina individually ? "

'ewe need not go into that. I have no
desire to hurt your feelings, and your opinion
of the young person's merits will probably not
be influenced by mine."

*' Probably not ; but I should like to hear
your opinion, if you don't mind."

"As you please. I should object, then, to
Miss Flemyng as a daughter-in-law under any
circumstances. I have studied her a little,
and If it were at all worth while, I could give
you many excellent reasons for my objection.
However, two of them will answer the purpose,
being quite conclusive. She is selfish and she
Is greedy of admiration. With women of that
stamp domestic life Is an impossibility, pure et
simple!'

You will judge Nina differently some day,"
observed Claud. '' I am willing to wait until
you shall be better acquainted with her."

So am I — more than willing. Now, if you
please, we will pass to the second part of our
subject. You have found my remarks a little
incoherent hitherto, I dare say."

'' Not at all," said Claud politely.

*'Ah — well, they were meant to be incoherent,
at any rate. As regards your financial
position, I shall endeavour, on the contrary, to
be perfectly lucid. You complain — very reasonably,
I think — that you have neither been
educated for a profession nor allowed the
quasi-Independence of a rich man's son. Now
I am, I suppose, about the very worst man
of business in Europe. I have always hated
money-matters, and have never troubled myself
about them. At the present moment I am, I
believe, tolerably well off; but It happens that
my fortune is subject to sudden and indefinite
calls, which have already obliged me to sell out
investments, which have increased of late years,
and will probably continue to Increase ; and
whether, at my death, you will find yourself
what Is called a rich man is really more than
I can tell you. Taking everything into consideration,
I have decided to put you henceforth
upon an allowance of seven hundred pounds a
year. Upon that allowance you ought to be
able to live comfortably, and under no circumstances

whatever will it be augmented. Be so
good as to fix that fact in your mind once and
for all. I need not tell you that whenever it
suits you to live here, or on board the yacht, orin
my stage in Paris, you will be heartily
welcome to do so ; but I wish you distinctly to
understand that from this day you are entirely
free and your own master. You will com and
go as you like, and as often as you like. I
shall not question your movements, nor attempt
to exercise any control over them. If this
arrangement meets with your approval I shall
be very glad ; but at the same time, I may as
well tell you that I shall neither make nor even
discuss any other."

Claud considered for a short space. " I
don't think I could reasonably ask for anything
more," he said, at length. 'rit has all come
upon me rather suddenly, and I don't know
that I see my way quite clearly as yet. Do
you mean that I am to have seven hundred
pounds a year from to-day, to do as I like
with?"

That," said Mr. Gervis, " is what I mean."

'' Because, if so, I must repeat what I said

before, that I intend to marry Nina Flemyng,

and nobody else ; and it appears to me that we

could set up house very well upon seven

hundred pounds a year. Would you withdraw
the allowance if I married against your wishes ?"

*' My dear fellow," said Mr. Gervis, " I have
no doubt that there are several good stout
ropes in different parts of this establishment,
with any one of which you could satisfactorily
hang yourself, if you were so minded. I am
not going to have them all withdrawn in order
to remove temptation from your way. There
are certain lines of conduct against which no
one, except a congenital idiot, requires to be
protected ; and when I said just now that you
should not marry Miss Fleming, if I could
prevent it, I never meant to imply that I should
use other than rational means of prevention.
For a man of your habits to marry upon seven
hundred pounds a year is practically an impossibility.
I have a firm conviction that your
own good sense will tell you that much, when
you have had time to consider of it."

Hundreds and thousands of people marry
upon less," returned Claud ; '' but let us waive
that question. Surely you must see that, even
if I were too selfish to like the prospect of
economy and discomfort, I should still be bound
in honour to carry out my engagement. I
wonder what you think I ought to say to Nina
this afternoon ? "

'' That, my good friend, Is your affair, not
mine. However, if I were in your predicament,
I should simply lay the bare facts before
her, and leave her to draw her own conclusions
from them. I may have formed a mistaken
estimate of her character, but my confident expectation
is that she will call me bad names,
shed some natural tears, but dry them soon, and
send you about your business."

''My confident expectation Is that she will
do nothing of the kind. You must remember
that she knows what It is to be hard up, and
that what you consider a miserable pittance
may appear a decent enough provision to
her. I hope and believe that she will think
so, and that, having accepted me when she
supposed me to be a rich man, she won't throw
me over, now that she finds me to be a poor
one."

'' Very well. I must warn you, though, that
if you marry, I shall no longer be able to offer
you quarters here or elsewhere. For you there
will be room, but for a wife and an indefinite
number of squalling infants there certainly will
not. I believe that pretty well exhausts what
I have to say upon the subject. I have done
my best for you, and I wash my hands of all
responsibility as regards the future."

I perfectly understand that my life belongs
to myself, and that I alone am answerable for
what is made of it," said Claud. " I ask for
nothing better ; and you may depend upon it
that I will give you no trouble in a pecuniary
vv'ay. Well, I must be going now." He made
for the door, as he spoke ; but when his hand
was upon the lock, he paused, and looked back.
Gervis had drawn his arm-chair close to the
fire, and was stooping over it, one thin, transparent
hand extended to the blaze, the other,
which shook a little, holding up the open volume
of Balzac which had been laid aside half an
hour before. Something pathetic in the attitude
of the bending figure, which was that of an old
man, despite its slimness and the somewhat
youthful cut of its garb, touched Claud's heart
with a twinge of pity and compunction. A
hundred memories of bygone days and bygone
kindnesses recurred to him as he looked ; and
all at once he seemed to realize the utter isolation
of that queer old man who had gone
through the world forgiving injuries with cool
contempt, relieving the needy with a sneer,
never doing an ungenerous action nor speaking
a generous word — understood by few, hated by
many, and loved by none, unless it were by the
son who was now abandoning him without one

sign of regret. Our young prodigal was as
soft-hearted a sinner as ever set forth to face
this world of sorrow and disappointment ; and
it needed no diet of husks to rouse his dormant
sense of filial duty. He recrossed the room,
and laid his hand gently upon his father's
shoulder.

Governor," said he, " we've knocked about
a great deal together, and we've had some good
days, and there have been jokes, and there have
been troubles, and — and we've been the best
of friends through it all, haven't we ? Don't
let us quarrel now."

Mr. Gervis closed his book, keeping one
finger in it to mark the place, and looked up,
with an air of some surprise. '' I assure you,"
he said, '' I have not the slightest intention of
quarrelling with you — or with anybody. Quarrelling
is ill-bred and silly ; and really, when
you come to think of It, nothing in the world Is
worth the trouble of quarrelling about. We
have, as you truly say, been good friends, and
during the last few years we have seen a great
deal of each other. Whether we shall continue
to do so will depend entirely upon yourself.
All this is very wearing ; but for once in a way
I suppose It must be gone through. I quoted
Lord Chesterfield to you just now ; perhaps

I can't explain my feelings towards you better
than by quoting him again. 'As I have no
womanish weakness for your person,' says hein
one of his letters to his son, 'your merit
must, and will, be the only measure of my
kindness.' And all through his correspondence
you will continually come across such phrases
as, ' To talk of natural affection is talking nonsense
' — ' Be persuaded that I shall love you
as long as you deserve it, and not one moment
longer' — and so forth. I don't go quite that
length. I am not prepared to assert that there
is no such thing as natural affection ; though
you may certainly look upon me as wholly
devoid of it ; nor do I pretend that the affection
which I have for you will be increased or
diminished according to your merits. Speeches
of that description are out of date, and were
never quite sincerely uttered, I should imagine.
But this I will say — that there is no soft side
of me to be worked upon, and that, if you
persist in doing what I dislike, you will put it
quite out of the question for me to meet you
often. That, however, signifies very little. Ina
few years I shall be out of all this, and our
mutual relations will no longer interest either of
us. The important thing is that you should
not ruin your career in order to gratify a boyish

v/him. I believe I have made it impossible
for you to do this — as impossible, at least, as
I care to make it. I have absolutely no fear
as to the result ; and therefore I can't see any
necessity for our going through a scene over it.
I wish you would go away, and let me read
in peace."

I will go avv^ay in a minute, and I will
promise not to make a scene, governor; only
I do wish I could persuade you that I am in
earnest," said Claud. 'you don't believe in
love, I know "

Not as a permanent affliction," interpolated
Mr. Gervis.

Well ; but the difference between us is that
I do. Nothing will prevent my marrying
Nina, if she will have me ; and, whatever you
may say, there is not really any impossibility
in living on seven hundred pounds a year.
Besides," added Claud hesitatingly, " I think
perhaps I may be able to make some small
additions to my income."

"Here and there, I suppose," said Mr. Jervis
glancing up, with a faint smile.

Claud reddened slightly. " You know then ?
You have seen the book ? Why did you never
say anything about it ? "

You did not honour me with your confidence,"

replied his father ; '' and you know it
is my rule to avoid intrusion as far as possible."

I was afraid to tell you ; I did not want you
to laucrh at me. You thought it awful rubbish,,
of course."

*' No ; I thought it a very creditable,
amateurish sort of performance. I read your
verses with a good deal of pleasure, and to be
quite frank, I expected that the fact of their
simultaneous appearance in two languages would
have attracted more notice than it seems to-have
done. An idle man might fill up his
leisure time worse than by composing pretty
imitations of the minor poets ; but your publishers
will probably have left you in no doubt
as to whether copying deeds for a lawyer is
not, upon the whole, a more lucrative employment."


Versifying is not the only mode of composition
that exists," remarked Claud.

And you think you have a gift for prose ?
It may be so for aught I know ; and I am sure
I hope it is. I wish you every success. Remember,
however, that in literature, as in all
other trades, there is an apprenticeship to be
served, and that in the majority of cases it is
not a short one. Even such a man as this''
continued Mr. Gervis, tapping the cover oi La

Peat de Chain, '' had to struggle for years
against poverty and obscurity before he could
force the stupid public to pay him for his work.
With the highest respect for you, I see no cause
to suppose that you are a second Balzac ; and
that is one reason why I should advise you not
to count upon making a fortune by your pen
before you are grey-headed."

'* I don't expect to make a fortune at all'
Claud declared modestly; 'but I may make
something. If I can earn a hundred a year to
start with, I shall be satisfied."

'' And Miss Flemyng ? Will she be equally
moderate in her wishes, do you think ? "

'' That is exactly what I am going to ask
her."

'' Then, for goodness' sake, go. I trust she
will find sou more entertaining than I have
done. A ti plaisir ! "

So the old man went back to his novel, while
the young one set forth to play his part in the
brief romance of real life ; and doubtless each
in his heart pitied the other.

CHAPTER VII.

Nina's views.

At the southernmost extremity of the diminished
property belonging to the Moated House, there
is a space of artificial water, covering perhaps an
area of an acre and a half, which is still dignified
by the name of the Lake. Very likely it may
have deserved its appellation in bygone years —
the gradual outward slope of the hollow in which
it lies, and the thick growth of sedge and bulrushes
with which its shores are fringed, seem
to imply as much — but it has shrunk, even as
the domain of those who laid it out has shrunk
and nowadays is only a dismal, muddy pond,
suggestive in all its aspects of vicissitude and
fallen fortunes. I have seen somewhere an old
engraving representing a party of gentlemen in
laced coats and knee-breeches assisting ladies
in powder and patches and hoops to land upon
the little island whose tangled undergrowth has

long been the undisputed territory of water-fowl
and water-rats. It might be the very punt once
occupied by that courtly company which now
lies, rotting and filled with water among the
rushes of the margin. Traces of winding, moss-grown
paths are visible among the trees, beyond
which rises the higher ground of the park ; and
a dilapidated summer-house of Chinese design Is
dimly reflected In the stagnant water.

It was this rather melancholy spot that Nina
had agreed upon with Claud as the scene of
their first rendezvous ; and here It was that he
found her at the appointed time, sitting, clad Ina
perfectly-made costume of brown with touches
of red about It, a small velvet hat trimmed with
sable on her head, and a jacket deeply bordered
with the same costly fur flung back from her
shoulders. She was crunching bonbons In a
leisurely, contented way, as she waited, without
apparent Impatience or anxiety for her lover to
show himself — an almost startling embodiment
of health, life and beauty amid all that silence
and decay. She must have heard the sound of
approaching footsteps long before Claud reached
her side, but It was not until he was almost
touching her that she turned her head, with a
nod and a bright smile, and held up her bag of
bonbons.

"Genuine V Tins fondants'' said she, with her
mouth full. " Forwarded to me this morning
by a wandering admirer. Take one : sou can't
think how good they are."

Something in the action or the words, or
both, jarred upon Claud's sensitive feelings.
This was not exactly the sort of welcome that
he had been picturing to himself whilst hurrying
across country to keep his tryst, and it vexed
him to see Nina so light-hearted and careless at
a time when his happiness and hers were alike
trembling in the balance of fate. But the next
instant he took himself to task for his injustice ;
for how was she to guess what hindrances had
been cast in the path of true love that morning's
It was now his business to enlighten her ; but
he thought he might claim a brief space of bliss
and forgetfulness before proceeding to the performance
of so unromantic a duty ; and acting
upon this conviction, he found no reason to
murmur at the fashion in which his advances
were received.

A middle-aged bachelor must really not be
expected to describe in detail the meeting of
two young lovers. The present writer has
reached a period of life at which it is no longer
permitted to intrude upon the privacy of youths
and maidens, and must leave to the knowledge

and Imagination of his readers matters with
which his mature and modest pen refuses to
deal. I declare that when I take my walks
along the Beachborough esplanade on summer
nights, and come across some amorous shop-boy
seated with his sweetheart upon one of the
benches provided by a thoughtful municipality,
I avert my head, and hurry past as demurely
as if I were Miss Pennefather herself. I ama
great deal more anxious to avoid looking at
them than they are to escape observation. I
would not for the world see their absurd kissings
and huggings ; and as for listening to the
nonsense that they are talking, I would as soon
open a letter not addressed to me. For of
course what is said in such moments is all nonsense,
whether It be uttered by a shop-boy ora
duke ; and if any one chooses to make a
suggestion about sour grapes, I beg to reply
that grapes very often are sour, and that young
folks frequently make themselves ill by partaking
of a fruit from which their elders wisely
abstain. Do you want to watch two poor
creatures In the humiliating position of mistaking
sour for sweet ? Do you suppose that at
my age I am going to gratify your unhealthy
craving with dialogues of the Stephen and
Amaryllis order? No indeed ! If that is what

you require, you must address yourself elsewhere.
In this staid and respectable history
we will have no love-scenes — at least, no more
of them than accuracy of narration demands.

With your permission, then, we will drop the
curtain over the first quarter of an hour of
Claud's interview with his betrothed, and only
raise it just in time to catch a few last words
of the description characterized above. The
lovers, heedless of colds and rheumatics, have
established themselves in a corner of the
summerhouse ; his arm is round her waist, her
head is comfortably pillowed upon his broad
shoulder, and his left hand is absently twisting*
and turning the rings upon her slim fingers.

'rand are you sure — quite sure — that you
never loved any one but me ? " whispers the
male idiot.

She glances up at him with a queer look in
her grey eyes, while an irrepressible smile of
amusement breaks out in every line and dimple
of her face. " There was a little boy whom I
used to meet at the dancing-class when I was
eight years old, and who used to spend all his
pocket-money in buying sweets for me," she
answers gravely. " I think he was the first.
Then there were all my brothers' school and
college friends — charming fellows, some of

VOL. II. L

them, and devoted to me. And I recollect a
Captain Ponsonby, a remarkably good-looking
and fascinating man, whom I positively adored
for a lone time. He has since married another,
you will be sorry to hear. That was before
I came out. Since then, I must have had at
least half a dozen strong fancies and three or
four serious attachments."
-Oh, Nina!"

*' Well, you asked me, you know ; and what
could I do but tell you the melancholy truth ? "

Claud sighs profoundly ; but apparently
forms a magnanimous resolution to let the
dead past bury its dead. "At least," says he,
*' you will never love anybody but mee again."

*'Ah, that is assuming a great deal," answers
the girl. But looking up at her adorer's lugubrious
visage, her humour changes suddenly,
and she throws her arms round his neck.
No, no ! don't look so sad. It was all untrue,
v/hat I told you just now ; I only said it to
tease you. I never cared a straw for a single
one of those stupid people ; and I love you a
great, great deal — more than you love me, I
dare say. Now are you contented ? "

Contented ! " Claud could not find words
to describe his beatitude, and was compelled
to have recourse to other modes of expression.

And will nothing make you change ? "

'' Nothing on earth."

'rand what you said yesterday "

Never mind what I said yesterday. Today
is to-day : let us take It, and be thankful
for it."

Yes ; to-day Is to-day," says Claud, recalled
on a sudden to the remembrance of his duty ;
and we must take it as wee find it. Nina,
darling, something happened to-day that I must
tell you about."

'' Something disagreeable ? "

"I'm afraid It is rather disagreeable. You
know I had to face the governor this morning."


And he threatened to cut you off with a
shilling if you married me, didn't he ? "

'' No ; it was not quite so bad as that ;
but "

I know what is coming. Oh, Claud, don't
let us have a long engagement ! I would far
rather part at once and have done with it. I
don't think you at all understand what I am,
though I have told you often enough, and no
doubt there have been plenty of people so kind
as to let you hear about all my flirtations. If
I were your wife it would be different ; but so
long as I have to live as I am doing now I



must amuse myself, and I must flirt. I can't
help it ; It Is my nature to be so. And you
would be jealous ; and there would be quarrels,
and explanations, and then more quarrels ; and
it is easy to see how all that would end. Whatever
we do, let us spare ourselves the miserable
humiliation of being put upon our trial and
breaking down."

The girl spoke with a vehemence which, to
Claud's "mind, was hardly called for by the
occasion. In this first moment of his triumph,
the tendency of which Nina had accused herself
seemed to him no very heinous offence. He
was even disposed to include it in the list of
her irresistible charms, and to look with a very
lenient eye upon those prospective worshippers
whom it might attract. Poor vain creatures,
flattering themselves with the hope of gaining
a prize above their reach ! Might not he who
had secured it afford to smile at their fatuity ?

-My daring," said he, "I don't think I
should ever be jealous of you, or mind what
you did, so long as you loved me. But whether
our engagement is to be a long or a short one
rests only with you. We may be married now,
at once, if— if only you are not afraid of marrying
a poor man. The governor, you see, is
dead against my marrying at all. His own

second marriage, somehow or other, hasn't
turned out a success ; and so he has got it
into his head that everybody else must be
equally unfortunate. He told me plainly that
he would prevent this if he could ; and I made
so bold as to answer that I didn't think he
would be able to prevent it. But he hasn't
behaved badly, all things considered. He
hasn't threatened to stop the supplies out and
out, as he might have done. What he did
was to promise me a small independence —
enough for a bachelor ; but not enough, ashe
thinks, for a married man. I must say that
I think he owed it me to do as much ; still
nothing forced him to do it ; and, under the
circumstances, it was a generous offer. He said
he was quite convinced that you would send
me about my business as soon as you heard
what a pauper I was ; and I replied that I was
quite convinced that you would do nothing ot
the sort. I wonder which of us was right ! "

It was clearly unreasonable to expect Miss
Flemyng to decide between the father and the
son in the absence of more specific information.
She raised her eyes, with a rather troubled
expression, to her lover's, saying, " Well ? "

'' Well ; it is seven hundred a year — not a
penny more."

"Seven hundred a year!" repeated Nina,
incredulously.

Claud's heart died within him. He made a
gesture of assent, being unable to speak.

** Do you mean to say that Mr. Gervis
thought he was going to scare us into parting
by such a threat as that ? He can't have been
serious. Why, seven hundred a year, properly
managed, is positive wealth. Why in the world
shouldn't we marry upon it ? "

She was so confident that Claud, after a brief
interlude of ecstasy, thought it his duty to
descend to details.

Do you think you realize the self-denial
that such an income implies ? " he asked.
'' Take the item of dress alone. Why, this
thing " — stroking her dark sables gently —
"must have cost more than the whole annual
allowance I shall be able to give you, my poor
child."

Oh, but it isn't paid for," answered Nina,
placidly.

This was hardly the sort of argument to
reassure a prudent economist. *' It will have
to be paid for, though," he submitted, with a
shade of anxiety in his tone.

Oh, yes ; some day. I don't let my tradesmen
bother me. I have never been out of

debt since I can remember ; and I don't see
whv one ever need be. What is the use of
deaHng with people who charge credit prices,
If one has to pay ready money ? I give them
something on account when I can, and so it
goes on. Don't look so solemn. I mean to
be a model of parsimony after we are married,
and you need not be afraid of our ending In
the workhouse. I could point out to you heaps
and heaps of people in Beachborough who
haven't any more to live upon than we shall
have ; and besides, you know, Claud, it is not
as if these few hundreds were all we had to
look forward to for the rest of our lives."

*ewe must not expect another sixpence
during the governor's lifetime," said Claud
quickly. ''He warned me of that; and he
never goes back from his word."

Nina smiled. " That is a facoii de parler''
she observed. " Everybody and everything
changes in this world. But, let him be as obstinate
as he will, a time must come when you will
be better off than you are now. I don't want
to shock you, and I'm sure I hope Mr. Gervis
may have many years of life before him ; still
the fact remains that you will probably survive
him."

''He is perfectly free to disinherit me.

though ; and it is quite on the cards that he
may do it, if I act in opposition to his wishes."

'' He shall not do that," said Nina with determination.
" He dislikes me, I know "

Claud murmured a faint protest.

Oh, you need not trouble to contradict me.
I discovered his sentiments with regard to me
long ago, and I gave up trying to please him,
because it was not worth while, and I did not
care whether he was pleased or not. But I
care now ; and I intend that he shall like me.
I assure you I can be very fascinating when I
give my mind to it."

Claud had no doubt whatever of that. At
the same time, he could not help remembering
that Varna was generally held to be among
the most fascinating of women.

"You don't know the governor," he remarked.
He is not a bit like anybody else. I would
much rather look forward to making a moderate
competency by my pen."

'' So you will, of course. You are going to
be a great man, and I shall be ridiculously
proud of you. There really is not the slightest
fear of our starving. Now suppose we say no
more about money. It is a horrid, vulgar subject,
and I hate it, don't you ? "

After that, Claud could hardly persist in his

discussion of ways and means. It was, to be
sure, a vulgar subject, and he was not unwilling
to change it for a pleasant one.

The moments passed quickly for this happy
pair, as they sat in their tumble-down retreat,
exchanging those promises and assurances
which are as old as the world, and which may
very probably have been listened to by many
a departed lover in that self-same spot. The
wind, rising in gusts, brought down showers of
yellow leaves all around them, the gloom of a
grey afternoon deepened into twilight, and a
chilly mist hung over the lake ; but their bodies
seemed to have borrowed from their spirits a
temporary imperviousness to damp, and they
were too much engrossed in one another to
notice whether external objects wore a cheerful
aspect or otherwise. They spoke of the merry,
independent life they would lead together, and
agreed that Paris should be their home — Paris
being so economical a place of residence, and
offering, besides, such exceptional advantages
both to literary men and to ladies of limited
means who would fain catch some occasional
glimpses of the gay world. Small income life
in London, as Nina pointed out, meant neither
more nor less than social death ; whereas, in
the French capital, where distances were not

SO great and money was less abundant, one
could rent a pretty little flat, with a southern
aspect, for next to nothing, one could receive
one's friends from time to time without spending
a fortune on entertaining them, and pass
an evening at the Francis or the Oddon for the
really nominal price of seven or eight francs a
head. Some such mode of existence as was
thus vaguely shadowed forth would, she declared,
satisfy her utmost aspirations. She
didn't v/ant anything more ; indeed, when she
came to think of it, she was by no means sure
that it would not be much better fun to be poor
than rich. She was sick to death of English
dulness and routine, and longed to make a fresh
start under sunnier skies and in brighter circles.
Once, when the rumbling of carriage-wheels
was heard on the distant drive, she exclaimed
gleefully —

There go some visitors ! How thankful
I am that I have not got to see them ! How
thankful I shall be when I know that I need
never see them again, unless I like ! Oh, the
joy of saying good-bye to them ! — to them, and
their tittle-tattle, and their patronage, and their
stale news, and their clothing-clubs, and their
dreadful assembly-room dances ! You don't
understand ; because you are a man, and can

choose your own friends, and be rude or surly
even to them when you happen to be out of
humour ; but we women must be civil qjiand
mane, and I can assure you that the amount
of suffering we inflict upon one another, and
bear stoically,- is something almost beyond belief.
We won't know any ill-natured old frumps
Ashen we are married, will we ? " Then, after
some time had elapsed, and there was no sound
of the carriage returning towards the lodge,
she laughed, and exclaimed — '' Poor things !
I know what has happened to them. Papa
has caught them just as they were handing out
their cards, and at this moment they are being
marched across the damp grass In their thin
boots to look at the chrysanthemums. Can't
you imagine them cursing and swearing in their
hearts, with their faces screwed up into sickly
smiles, and ejaculating ' Oh, how too lovely [
I do envy you your garden, Mr. Flemyng ! I
had no idea chr^^santhemums could be so beautiful
' — and all the rest of it ? Only, you know,
that is merely their kindness and politeness ;
because they had to look at those same plants
last year and the year before, and they will
have to look at them next year, if they don't
die in the meantime. Papa is in his glory, and
thinks he is Q^ivino^ them a real treat. Poor

papa ! do you remember how angry he was
about his dallas, and how shamefully you behaved
in letting that good-for-nothing young
Burvill off? I taxed him with his sins the
next time I saw him on the beach, and he
made used of such language that I fled discomfited.
What made you let him off, Claud ?
I believe he threatened to thrash you unless
you did."

Claud laughed. He recollected perfectly the
substance of his conversation with Tom Burvill
on that memorable evening, and was not overanxious
to be cross-questioned upon the subject.
'' Talking of your father," he remarked, " I
suppose I shall have to go through a formal
conference with him before long, shall I not ?
Fathers are rather a bore sometimes, I must
confess. What will he say to a pauper son-in-law
do you think ? "

Nothing but what is amiable, unless you
put it into his head to raise objections. He
has not the most remote idea of the value of
money, poor old fellow, and if you were to tell
him that you could keep a carriage and a
couple of saddle-horses on seven hundred a
year, I haven't a doubt but that he would
believe you. Your best plan would be to take
his consent for granted, and to rather imply

that the whole affair was his arranging and that
he ought to be very much obliged to you for
forwarding his designs."

Claud said he would do his best to carry out
this suQfCfestlon. He was not, in truth, much
afraid of Mr. Flemyng; but a sense of the
awkwardness of coupling his formal demand
with the admission that he had but a bare
sufficiency of means to offer, and that his father
was strongly opposed to his marriage, made
him anxious to get this bad quarter of an hour
over and done with as soon as possible. He
confessed as much to Nina, who shrugged her
shoulders sympathetically.

*' It is a nuisance," she agreed ; ''I wish I
could do the business for you. But never
mind ; It won't last long ; and I think I can
almost promise you that he will consent without
hesitation. The fact is it will be an
Immense relief to him in many ways to get
rid of me."

The sequel, however, showed that Miss
Flemyng set too modest a value upon herself,
and that her father was by no means so eager
to part with her as she had supposed. An
hour later Claud was admitted into that gentleman's
study, and, instead of being met with
the affectionate greeting which his experience

during the last few weeks had entitled him to
look for, was requested in grave accents to take
a chair, and informed that the honour of his
visit had been anticipated.

''I am acquainted with the errand which
has brought you here," Mr. Flemyng began;
^'and I am glad that you have seen fit to
address yourself to me without loss of time.
Under the circumstances, that was the proper
course to adopt, and it enables me to say what
otherwise I could hardly have said without
some appearance of indelicacy : namely, that
I must decline for some time to come to receive
you in my house as I have had the pleasure
of doing of late."

The philosopher had taken up a commanding
position upon the hearth-rug. His cheeks
were slightly flushed, and his features bore
traces of some recent agitation, ill-concealed
under an additional loftiness of mien. Disappointment
and mortified vanity might have
been plainly read there by any dispassionate
observer ; but Claud was too pre-occupied with
his own affairs to take a calm survey of his
host, and saw only that the man was angry.
He made an attempt to speak, but was silenced
by an imperative gesture.

^* Allow me, If you please, a few minutes.

When I tell you that I have just parted from
your father, who has been with me during the
greater part of the afternoon, you will no doubt
understand the situation — I may add the embarrassing
and unexpected situation — in which
I find myself placed."

Claud's face lengthened, and a subdued
whistle escaped from his lips. " So it was the
governors carriage-wheels that we heard,"
thought he. ''He has stolen a march upon
me. What a fool I was not to remember the
importance of being the first to tickle this
solemn old donkey's long ears ! "

What I have heard to-day," continued Mr.
Flemyng, all unconscious of the disrespectful
reflections that were passing through his would-be
son-in-law's mind, "has greatly surprised
me. I do not refer to the news of your
attachment to my daughter — for you are not
to suppose that what has been going on for
many weeks past has escaped my observation —
but to your father's strongly-expressed opposition
to your marriage, and to the means which
he has taken to render it impossible. I say
advisedly ' impossible ; ' for upon that point my
conviction is as firm and as unalterable as
Mr. Gervis's. Whether due consideration has
been shown to myself and my daughter in the

matter is a question which I do not care to
discuss. I hold a very decided opinion that
I ought to have been warned of your fathers
peculiar views with reference to matrimony ;
Mr. Gervis, on the contrary, appears to think
that it was my part to inform myself of them.
As to that we must be content to remain at
issue. Mr. Gervis, I am bound to say, has
expressed himself with a great deal of courtesy
and proper feeling ; and there has been nothing
in the shape of a breach between us. We are,
in short, both men of the world, he and I,"
observed Mr. Flemyng, with a complacent
roll of his head ; " which is equivalent to
saying that we are able to retain our self-command
under every circumstance. I have
only to add my hope that the friendly relations
which have sprung up between you and my
family may not be put an end to by this —
untoward event ; although, as I hinted to you
just now, it may be advisable that they should
suffer some temporary interruption."

I think I shall be able to convince you, Mr.
Flemyng," said Claud, " that they need not be
interrupted at all, and that we may substitute
relationship for friendly relations before long."

Pardon me, my dear young friend ; you
will not be able to convince me of anything of

the sort. Let us examine the facts as men of
the world and men of common sense. We find
ourselves at once in the presence of an insurmountable
obstacle — insufficiency of income.
Insufficiency of income present and future ; for
Mr. Gervis gave me distinctly to understand
that you would not necessarily be heir even
to a portion of his estate. Now I dare say,"
continued Mr. Flemyng benevolently, " that
you, being young, view this subject in a
different liorht from that in which reason obliges
me to regard it. Your father has, in fact,
prepared me to find you a little vague in your
notions of finance. All the more necessary is
it that I should use such poor powers as I
possess to make your situation clear to you.
Many persons in my place would content themselves
with simply declining to entertain your
proposal ; but I take an interest in your welfare,
I have a sincere friendship for you, and
I should like to feel that I had done what in
me lay towards opening your eyes to the complicated
conditions of existence in the world
which we inhabit."

'' You would like to hear yourself talk, you
mean," thought Claud ; but he bowed, without
speaking, and bided his time patiently.

Then Mr. Flemyng cleared his voice, and

VOL. II. M

embarked upon a dissertation which lasted for
twenty minutes, from start to finish, without
a check. Claud, giving an account of the
interview in later years, declared that this
dreadful old man traced the history of marriage
from its origin in the garden of Eden down to
the present day, glancing briefly at the facility
of maintaining a large family in the time of the
patriarchs, stating, in a parenthesis, some excellent
reasons for the incompatibility of polygamy
with a high state of civilization, alluding
to the laws and customs relating to matrimony
which prevailed at Athens and Sparta, distinguishing
between the Roman paterfamilias
and 11X01% passing lightly over the invasion of
the barbarians to the rise and decay of the
feudal system and the state of domestic institutions
under the Renaissance, devoting a few
sentences to the Reformation, to Puritanism and
to the subsequent laxity of morals characteristic
of the latter part of the seventeenth and the
whole of the eighteenth centuries, and so, after
a compendious survey of the influence of the
revolutionary era upon society, reaching his
conclusion that seven hundred a year was not
enough to support a middle-class couple in the
reign of Queen Victoria. The recipient of all
this stored-up wisdom confessed that his attention

wandered a good deal during Its delivery,
and that he was entirely at a loss to make any
reply to the orator until a passing observation
of Mr. Flemyng's to the effect that Nina's
husband must not look for anything In the
shape of settlements afforded him the opportunity
of striking In with —

My dear sir, I assure you I never dreamt
of such a thing. The fact Is that, with care,
we shall be able to live perfectly well upon
what we have, and neither of us expects or
asks for more."

Mr. Flemyng wagged his head, and smiled
with compassionate superiority. " Have you
gone Into this matter?" he asked. 'have
you any Idea of the purchasing power of
money, or of the cost of the necessaries of
life ? "

I know that lots of people marry upon less
than seven hundred a year," answered Claud.

'' Unquestionably. But what will enable A.
to live in comfort may be found wholly Inadequate
to the wants of B., and In judging of the
means requisite to support two given persons,
we have to take into consideration the surroundings
to which those two persons have
been accustomed. And in this connection I
may remind you that even the law has held

a husband liable for such articles as jewellery
supplied to his wife, under the head of necessaries."


*'I thought that depended upon the husband's
income," said Claud.

I am not contemplating the probable result
of an action brought against you by your wife's
creditors : my allusion was merely intended to
show the elasticity of the word ' necessaries
and to point out the prudence of discovering
what meaning any lady may attach to that
word before leading her to the altar. Now
I happen to be in possession of certain data
which may assist us in forming a definite
judgment in the present instance. I hold in
my hand," — here Mr. Flemyng dived into his
coat-tail pocket, produced from thence a seat
of papers, and fixing his double eye-glasses on
his nose, proceeded : — '' I hold in my hand
sundry documents, which, to my mind, contain
evidence of an absolutely convincing nature.
They are — not to waste more words upon it —
bills. Bills from milliners, dressmakers, boot-makers,
and other tradesmen, which have been
sent in to me at various times during the last
few years, and which — which, in short, I have
had to pay," concluded Mr. Flemyng, pulling
a rather wry face. '' Since your father left

me," he resumed, " I have been going into these
figures a Httle ; and although, owing to the
irregularity with which the bills have been
furnished, and to the circumstance that everyone
of them begins with the item 'Account
rendered,' I have found it difficult to forma
strictly accurate estimate of my daughter s
annual expenditure, I have calculated that it
cannot be set down at a lower figure than
two hundred and fifty pounds."

Mr. Flemyng looked over his glasses at
Claud to see what effect had been produced
by this alarming statement; but as the young
man only smiled slightly, he returned to the
contemplation of a memorandum to which he
had already referred. " Now," said he, briskly,
"let us endeavour to make a rough summary
of your needs and hers and compare it with
the means at your disposal. Two hundred and
fifty pounds we have accounted for. Your own
allowance for dress, tobacco, and so on I should
put at "

Fifty pounds a year," said Claud with
decision.

*' A hundred and fifty, at the very least.
House-rent, with rates and taxes, another
hundred and fifty — certainly not too high a
figure. Wages for three servants, sixty pounds ;

doctor's bill, journeys, and other incidental expenses,
say a hundred and fifty pounds again.
Now, taking your income, together with the
hundred a year which I propose to allow to
Nina when she marries, at eight hundred, you
will find, after adding up these items, that
there will remain to you exactly forty pounds
per annum upon which to defray the cost of
food, wine, lighting, and coals. Quod est
absurdtim."

Mr. Flemyng thrust the papers back into his
pocket, and rubbed his hands with a certain
quiet triumph. '' Nothing so convincing as
figures," he observed.

'' I have heard it said that there is nothing
so misleading," replied Claud. " But at any
rate your conclusions must be worthless, because
you start from false premisses. Because we
have spent a good deal of money in the past,
it does not at all follow that we must needs,
do so in the future. One cuts one's coat
according to one's cloth. I don't pretend to
have studied details as yet ; but I think I could
easily make a rough calculation of our expenditure
which would be quite as trustworthy
as yours. For instance, one ought to be able
to get a very good little house for a rent of
fifty pounds. Well, let us say, rent, rates, and

taxes, seventy ; dress, a hundred ; wages, fifty ;
doctor, twenty ; household expenses, at five
pounds a week, two hundred and sixty : total
five hundred. That leaves us with a margin
of three hundred for contingencies."

It Is needless to follow the course of the
dispute which ensued between the two economists.
The one knew as much of his subject
as the other ; so that In one sense they started
upon tolerably even terms ; but It Is easier to
defend than to attack a position, and this told
moralist Claud. Moreover, the fruits of Mr.
Gervls's visit became apparent In more ways
than one ; and when the argument died away
from sheer lack of material to keep It going,
our young friend found that he had gained no
advantage, save that of havlnof restored his
opponent to good humour. For Mr. Flemyng,
who loved a discussion above all things, had
almost forgotten his wrongs In the pleasure of
displaying his stock of varied knowledge, and
when he shook hands with Claud, and bade
him good-bye, went so far as to express a hope
that they might meet again soon.

May I understand, then, that you do not
forbid me your house ? " Inquired the latter.

Mr. Flemyng, with some warmth, declared
himself incapable of such discourtesy.

"And may I see Miss Flemyng as usual ?"

'' Ah — well — hem ! I hardly know what to
say to that. In the presence of a third person
yes."

But, my dear Mr. Flemyng, you cannot
refuse me one last meeting with her. I will
not ask for more."

Be it so. Remember, however, only one.
I am not sure that I am wise "

But Claud cut him short with a profusion
of thanks, and escaped adroitly before his host
had time to retract this unwilling concession.
And as he walked back towards Southlands
in the dark, he said to himself that if Nina
would but remain true to him, neither her
father nor his should keep them long asunder.

CHAPTER VIII.

PERVERSITY.

Claud took his place at the dinner-table that
night with the consciousness of a novel sensation
of embarrassment. All the summer
through, he had come and gone as the fancy
had happened to take him, living almost as
much at the Moated House as at Southlands,
rendering no account of his actions in the
home circle, and not concerning himself at all
with the opinions which might have been formed
upon them there. Nina Flemyng alone had
occupied his thoughts, to the exclusion of all
less important subjects. But now for the first
time — why or wherefore signifies little — he was
beginning to emerge somewhat from his self-engrossing,
and an uneasy conviction forced
itself upon him that he was thought to have
made a fool of himself. He suspected, too,
that the occurrences of the day were no secret
either to Genevieve or to Miss Potts. The

former, he noticed, was very silent and looked
sad, while the countenance of the latter wore
an expression of almost ludicrous concern. Nos
one could have told them all that had happened
since the morning; but these domestic events
have a mysterious way of making themselves
felt, and it seemed to Claud that everybody
knew all about It. He could not help fancying
that even the servants glanced at him, every
now and again, with an air of slightly derisive
commiseration.

All this was trivial enough as regarded its
influence upon his future line of conduct ; but
It made him uncomfortable at the time, and
served to Increase the general feeling of constraint.
It Is true that Mr. Gervls's customary
placidity showed no signs of disturbance ; but
Mr. Gervis could do little towards settlncf
any member of his household at ease without
Claud's aid, and probably the two ladles were
not sorry to seize the first opportunity of
effecting their escape.

Our hero hardly knew what to do or say on
finding himself alone once more with his father.
Should he make any allusion to the topic of
which both of them must needs be thinking ?
Ought he to announce the news of Ninass
constancy and the discourao;In.o^ Issue of his

appeal to Mr. Flemyng, and to reiterate his
determination to have his own way, in spite
of all opposition ? Or would it be wiser to
remain quiescent, and allow the enemy to fire
the first shot, should he be so minded ? The
Pall Mall Gazette, which was brought in at
this moment with the coffee, relieved him from
embarrassment. Mr. Gervis took up the paper,
lighted a cigarette, and began to read out the
latest intelligence bearing upon the Eastern
question, interspersing these extracts with occasional
laconic comments of his own. He
observed that the establishment of a Greek
empire at Constantinople would have to be the
ultimate solution of the problem ; he gave his
impressions of the Hellenic character, grounded
upon an official residence of some years' duration
at Athens, related an anecdote or two of
the late King Otho, and remarked upon the
various difficulties which seemed likely to disturb
the peace of Europe for a considerable
period yet to come. All this in his usual
languid accents, and without apparent preoccupation
on the score of difficulties nearer
home. After a time, he turned to the leading
article and relapsed into silence ; and Claud,
having finished his coffee, rose, and left the
room.

Southlands is a house rather overdone with
what the house-agents call 'noble reception-rooms."
There are too many of them for the
requirements of a small party of inmates ; they
are too large to be kept warm by means of
open fire-places, and there are no hot-water
pipes in the house — or, at least, were none
when its present owner came into possession
of it. At this time neither he nor any of his
family made use of the drawing-room — a vast
and cheerless apartment in which the gaudy
upholstery of thirty years ago still survived
intact — but chose in preference to sit in the
library, where there was less of pretension and
more of home-like comfort. Thither Claud
betook himself, and finding it unoccupied, drew
a chair up to the fire, and taking a volume
of Goethe which he found lying open on the
table, tried to forget his sorrows for a time in
perusing those of Werther. He soon, however,
became aware that this would not do. He was
not in the humour for reading, and the crabbed
text and involved German construction irritated
him. He tossed Goethe impatiently aside, and
after wandering about the room for a while,
examining the bookcases, and wondering aloud
what the deuce Gen and Miss Potts were doing
v/ith themselves, decided at last to go in search
•of those ladies.

Once in the hall, a far-away echo of music
o^ave him a clue to their whereabouts. He
followed the sound, and passed into a long
corridor hung with paintings, at the end of
which, shut off by a heavy curtain, was an
octagon room, built by old Colonel Gervis for
the reception of a marble group of Diana and
Actaeon which he had bought in Italy as a
genuine piece of ancient sculpture, and had
transported to England at an enormous outlay.
Competent authorities having subsequently cast
some doubt upon the authenticity of this work
of art, the old gentleman, in a fit of passion,
had ordered his costly purchase to be broken
up into fragments and carted away out of sight.
The pedestal which had once supported it
remained, and was found useful as a support
for her music-stand by Genevieve, who had
appropriated the little octagon room for practising
purposes, as being remote from the rest
of the house and beyond the range of fastidious
ears.

Claud groped his way along the dark gallery
towards the streak of light which escaped from
beneath the curtain at the end of it. A most
singular and confused medley of sound rushed
out to meet him as he advanced — a quick
succession of running passages, breaking into

chords, jostled by sharp dissonances — a hurly-burly
in the midst of which a few bars of some
well-known composition emerged here and
there, like straws upon the surface of a torrent,
and lost themselves as^aln. It was as if the
unseen violinist had raised some harmonious
imp to assist her in her art — as Martini once
invoked the devil, they say — and was playing
in obedience to a will other than her own,
vainly struggling to eliminate from this whirlwind
of sound terms of some fit utterance for
her thoughts. But on a sudden chaos took
shape ; the capricious strokes of the bow
ceased, and there rang out clearly and firmly
into the stillness the first notes of an air which
Claud knew well. It was a marching song,
composed in honour of Pio None, the liberal
pope, by I know not what enthusiastic Roman,
and frequently chanted by a sanguine people
during those brief helicon days of 1847 when
the dream of an Italian Italy had seemed on
the verge of fulfilment;. Genevieve and her
brother had heard the chorus sure scores of
times in Paris, where the Princess Ouranoffs
doors were ever open to exiles of all nationalities.
Probably It had maintained its place
in the hearts and on the lips of some of those
gentlemen less on account of the sentiments it

breathed — which, indeed, have been somewhat
discredited by later developments of history —
than by reason of its triumphant, jubilant melody
a true song of liberty, irrepressible as the
carol of a sky-lark, wild as the free winds that
sweep the Allan hills, and soft as the fathomless
blue above them. But surely never before
had voice or instrument lent that stirring strain
such meaning as it borrowed now from Genevieve's
violin. The measured chords started
with a swelling o^escendo, melted into subdued
ecstasy, and gathering volume, rolled onwards
like the sound of many waters, rising, falling,
filling: the air with a hundred sweet vibrations
and cadences, and striking the listener in the
darkness outside with a sort of pleased amazement.


Something must have made her very happy,
that she can play like that," was the comment
that came into his mind.

He had been standing close to the curtain
for some minutes : he put it gently aside now,
and peeped in. The little bare room was
lighted only by the candles on the music-stand ;
the two women had their backs turned to him.
Genevieve was standing upright, a long cloak
thrown back from her shoulders ; Miss Potts,
seated beside her on a low camp-chair, was

swaying to and fro in a kind of decorous
rapture infinitely ludicrous to behold. Her
head, her hands, and her feet marked time
noiselessly ; her long ringlets swung from side
to side ; her profile flung the strangest and
most grotesque shadows upon the white wall.
It was hard upon the poor lady that Nature
should have made her capable of enthusiasm
and denied to her person that grace which
enthusiasm can only augment ; but as she could
not guess that anybody was looking at her, her
enjoyment, let us hope, was not marred by any
consciousness of her physical deficiencies.

Go on, my child, go on," she entreated,
when at length the strains, growing softer and
softer, died away, as though the last marchers
in some triumphal procession had filed past ;
you transport me to paradise ! " And Genevieve,
without a word, drew her bow across the
strings once more.

Again that strange, harmonious jumble arose
fragments of symphonies, echoes of waltzes,
mazes of sound without name or form, while
Miss Potts, a little puzzled in her efforts to
keep time to a timeless measure, performed a
kind of voluntary St. Vitus's dance. A queer
performance and a queer couple.

Claud watched them with increasing curiosity.

Presently a light touch on his arm made him
start violently. It was his father who stood
beside him, his finger on his lips. Claud
moved silently to one side, and the older man
peered through the aperture. Thus for ten
minutes or more the fantastic solo went on
before an augmented audience. Finally Genevieve
let her violin drop from her shoulder,
exclaiming —

'' There ! that is enough. We will go back
to the library now. Miss Potts, you must be
frozen to death."

Oh no, indeed I am not," cried Miss Potts ;
I am quite hot. They will not miss us, and
it is not nearly bed-time yet. Please don't
stop."

But Mr. Gervis let the curtain fall, and
stole away, signing to his son to follow him ;
and the two listeners effected their retreat
unheard.

Mr. Gervis led the way to the billiard-room,
which was always lighted at night, though
seldom used, and taking down a cue from the
rack, " Are you inclined for a game ? " he
asked.

Claud said, " Yes, if you are."

Light your cigar then, and I will see what
I can do with you. You must allow me some-vol.

II. N

thing ; I have not played a game of billiards
for years. I will take ten points."

Mr. Gervis made no allusion to the scene
they had just witnessed until several additions
had been made to his score. Then he paused,
in the act of delivering a stroke, and looking
up, said abruptly —

'' Well ; what does all that say to you ? "

Genevieve's playing, do you mean ? I
don't know, I'm sure. I have never heard
her play like that before. It is extraordinary
it is a great power. It shows that she must
have practised a great deal more than we
supposed."

Oh, that is what it shows you ? It showed
me a little more, I fancy. For one thing, that
the girl has, what you, saving your presence,
have not — genius."

'' I am delighted to hear you say so," cried
Claud magnanimously. " As for me, I never
pretended to genius, nor imagined for a moment
that I had any."

'' Oh, you are clever," said Gervis, nodding
at him ; *' you have a very pretty talent. The
world may hear of you some day ; — but then
again it may not. That girl, if she had to
earn her own living, would become famous.
Her performance was absurd ; it was not

vlolin-playlno- ; it was not music, properly
speaking. But there was genius in every note
of it. And there was something else, plain
enough to me, but not to you, I suppose —
perversity. She will give trouble to herself
and her friends, I suspect, if she lives long
enough. For the rest, you may have already
discovered, without musical aid, that your sister
is a perverse person."

I don't know that I should have called her
that," said Claud, meditatively. ^' Prejudiced,
perhaps."

'' Especially as regards a certain individual
who shall be nameless, eh ? Let us not blame
her on that account ; you know, there are so
many people who share her opinion. I was
saying that she is a perverse genius. Odd,
that she should be anything of the kind ! I
can't tell where she got her temperament from.
Not from me certainly ; for if ever there was
a humdrum, unremarkable family, we Gervises
belong to it. It is the Italian strain of blood,
I suppose, which is an old one, and must have
picked up all kinds of stray ingredients in the
process of its development. Your mother was
assuredly no genius ; but, on the other hand,
she was well provided with — some other qualities
which I can detect in your sister. Upon my

word, when I think of what the vices of her
family were, and compare them with certain
of my own little hereditary failings, I feel that
I owe you both a sincere apology for having
married her. And I really believe," continued
Mr. Gervis, moving away from the table, and
seating himself upon an adjacent sofa, " that if
people realized the discomfort they were bringing
upon unborn generations by injudicious
cross-breeding, three-fourths of the population
would become so deucedly cautious and timorous
that they would live and die single. Which
would be an excellent thing in every way.
Let me recommend the subject to your consideration."


Governor," said Claud, abruptly and somewhat
irrelevantly, " what made you go over
and set old Flemyng against me this afternoon
?

''My dear fellow, what a very absurd question [
Did I not tell you — mark that miss up to me,
please — did I not tell you that I meant to use
every reasonable means of preventing you from
spoiling your career ? I counted, and count
still, upon the young lady's good sense ; but
it seemed as well to make assurance doubly
sure by frightening the father. You ought,
of course, to have secured his ear before me.
Why didn't you?"

*' I never thought of it," answered Claud,
innocently. 'but you were wrong about Nina.
She laughed at the idea of our being too poor
to marry."

'' Did she indeed ? In that case, I have
the consolation of knowing that 1 did not spend
a very wearisome afternoon to no purpose.
There is also room for disinterested satisfaction
in the thought that, some day or other, you
will be thankful to me for the trouble I have
taken. Another miss ! — and look what you
have left me ! This ought to be final."

That makes you game, governor," said
Claud, as Mr. Gervis, after putting down the
red twice in succession, scored a rather clever
five stroke.

One can win most games," observed his
father serenely, " if one keeps cool, and does
not care at all whether one wins or loses."

It is a better plan still to be determined to
win," thought Claud, following his late antagonist
out of the room. It was not yet quite
clear to him by what means he should get the
better of that unimpassioned player as regarded
the more important contest in which they were
engaged ; but that he should eventually do so
he had no doubt, and this, he felt, was half the
battle. He revolved many inchoate projects in

his mind before going to sleep that night, but
adjourned further consideration of them all
until such time as he should have held a consultation
with Nina, to whose mother wit and
fertility of resource he trusted more than to his
own.

That this confidence was not misplaced he
had ample proof on the following morning,
when he betook himself to the Moated House
to claim that last private interview which Mr.
Flemyng's good nature had conceded. Nina,
so far from being cast down by her father's unforeseen
hostility, was in one of her brightest
moods, and professed herself quite confident of
being able to out-general the allied forces.
Nothing could be clearer or more business-like
than her review of the situation.

Mr. Gervis we may look upon as disposed
of," said she. '' That is, if you are quite certain
that he will not stop your allowance under any
circumstances."

Yes, I am quite certain of that," answered
Claud.

'' Very well, then ; /le can't prevent our
marrying. Papa, of course, can — at least, he
can make it practically impossible for us to be
married from this house in the orthodox way.
But his power begins and ends there. All that

we have to do is to be true to one another ;
and then, after a Httle bother — you don't mind
a Httle bother, do you ? "

It Is superfluous to put Claud's reply on
record.

Well, it will not be very great, nor last
very long. I have been thinking it all over,
and I have come to the conclusion that the
only thing to be done is to make a clean bolt
for it, and confront our revered parents with an
accomplished fact."

What ! run away ? " ejaculated Claud, nota
little startled by the suddenness of the proposition.


Nina threw herself back in her chair, and
laughed with much apparent enjoyment. '' How
rude you are ! " she cried. '' Wasn't it enough
to throw the burden upon me of making a
suggestion which really ought to have come
from you ; or are you going to cover me with
humiliation by raising objections to my plan ? "

How can you say such things ? You took
my breath away a little, that was all. I expected
"

What ? That I should advise you to go
away and travel for five years, promising to
remain In strict seclusion in the meantime, upon
the chance of your majesty's continuing constant

? Or that I should recommend our addressing
trois commotions respechceuses to our
cruel parents, as they do in France, and getting
our own way at last by dint of sheer pertinacity
? I couldn't attempt to face all the
worry and opposition that that implies. I
should break down before a month was out.
What I told you yesterday was only too true ;
there's no stability about me. Oh, Claud, I
am not nearly good enough for you ; and if
you were not infatuated, you would see it.
Anyhow, being what I am, I must be taken
now or not at all — middle courses won't do.
An elopement or a final parting, which is it to
be ? I know which you will choose if you are
wise."

Wisely or unwisely, Claud's choice was soon
made. He was full of happiness and gratitude,
and quite prepared to concur In any scheme
which Nina might advocate. " Only wouldn't
it be better, before we decide on doing anything,
to make one more attempt at talking
Mr. Flemyng over ? "

Nina shook her head. '' I have been talking
to him the whole morning," she said, " and
it has been all wasted breath. Mr. Gervis
seems to have scared him by some means or
other, and he won't listen to reason. After alla

runaway match will be rather fun In someways,"
she added musingly. '' All I shall
regret will be the having no trousseau ; wedding
presents I can forego without a pang. I am one
of those unfortunates who have an enormous
acquaintance, and not one good, solid, old-fashioned
friend who might be counted upon
to come down with a grand-piano or a cheque
for a hundred pounds ; and you know the sort
of frightful things people give one nowadays —
horrid, cheap ink-stands and monstrosities in
modern china, and all kinds of abominations in
imitation oxidized silver— it is a positive relief
to think that ones house will not be choked up
with all that trash. My trousseau I confess
that I do grieve over ; but I suppose the best
way will be for me to order the few rags I
shall want afterwards ; and if papa has a spark
of proper feeling, he will Insist upon paying the
bills."

Claud was too happy to be alarmed at the
ominous vista which this incidental hint might
have revealed to more experienced eyes. In
Nina's willingness to dispense with those accompaniments
of the marriage ceremony which
are supposed to be especially dear to women
he saw a proof, not only of her superiority to
the rest of her sex, but of her truly disinterested

love for him ; and he felt, and said, that he
could never be sufficiently thankful to her, or
cease to wonder at his good fortune.

His attention. Indeed, was so fully engaged
with asseverations of this description, and with
the answers and rejoinders that naturally flowed
from them, that very nearly an hour slipped
away before he began to think of arranging the
details of the proposed flight. Then It was
that he recollected, with a shock of dismay, that
the days of Gretna Green were over. " Good
Heavens ! what shall we do ? " he exclaimed.
*' I am almost sure that we can't be married
anywhere, unless our banns have been called In
church, and we have resided for a certain
number of weeks In the parish. Did you think
about that ? "

Nina confessed that this necessity, If it existed,
had escaped her memory. Upon reflection, she
believed that there was some stupid rule of the
kind. Yes ; no doubt that would explain why
one never heard of people running away now —
except, of course, married people. How too
tiresome ! But wasn't there such a thing asa
special licence ? Or had a vexatious legislature
done away with that convenience too ?
Luckily, the room In which this plot was hatching
happened to adjoin Mr. Flemyng's study.

whither a move was now made with the view
of consulting the laws of the land as to matrimony.
"Stephen's Commentaries" was dragged
from Its shelf and the chapter relating to
marriage duly referred to. Owing, however,
partly to a nervous dread of Mr. Flemyng's
sudden entrance and partly to the provoking
diffuseness of the learned Blackstone and his
commentators, the whole subject appeared to
our conspirators to be Involved In some obscurity
; the one thing manifest being that
nobody could very well get married In England
without a considerable amount of dangerous
publicity. Under these circumstances, Nina,
who had no Idea of allowing a pack of pedantic
lawyers to frustrate her designs, was of opinion
that some foreign country might offer greater
facilities — at all events as regarded secrecy —
than the United Kingdom.

'' I'll tell you what you must do," said she,.
as soon as she and her lover were safely seated
by the fireside once more ; " you must run over
to Port Ste. Marie In the yacht, and see the consul
there. You can find out all particulars from
him, without anybody knowing anything about
It ; and If It turns out that our names have to be
stuck up In his office for a week, It won't much
matter. At least, It would be an extraordinary

piece of bad luck if anybody who knew us
happened to see them there. Yes ; of course
that will be much the best way ; I wonder I did
not think of it before. I know there is an
English clergyman at Port Ste. Marie ; and it
will be ever so much jollier to be married in
France, won't it ? We can go straight to Paris,
and look out for rooms at once. What fun it
will all be ! "

This last ejaculation really seemed to convey
the impression that was uppermost in her mind.
She was lying back in her low chair, fanning
herself lazily with a fire-screen, and discussing
an elopement from her father's house with no
more apparent anxiety than if it had been a
pic-nic that she was organizing. Claud could
not help wishing that she were a little more
serious, and wondering whether she realized the
importance of the plunge that she was about to
take. She answered his unspoken thought at
once.

For goodness' sake, don't put such a grave
face upon it ! You will have plenty of time
to look grave in the years that are coming —
yes ; and to repent too, I dare say. We shall
only be young once. I want to enjoy it all —
every bit of it — the fun of the thing, with the
rest. Can't you understand ? "

Claud was not quite sure that he could. He
said, however, that her enjoyment would be his
happiness, then and always, and for the rest,
agreed with her that their hopes seemed to
have the best chance of fulfilment thrush the
medium of the consul at Port Ste. Marie.

The secrecy of It is the only thing that
worries me a little," he confessed at last.
You see, the governor has always been open
and above-board with me ; and if I were to
find myself so placed that I could hardly avoid
telling him lies "

Then, my dear, stupid boy, you would have
to tell them. The sin of a lie consists in deceit,
doesn't it ? But deceive we must, so it can't
matter much whether it is our words or only
our acts that are untrue. It's an unpleasant
necessity — neither more nor less. For the next
few weeks you will have to come here every
now and then — not too often, you know — and
you will have to look as dejected as you can,
and to be driven to take short voyages from
time to time, in order to distract your thoughts.
You mustn't let Mr. Gervis send you away ;
but you might, to keep him quiet, let fall occasional
hints that you do not look forward to
spending the winter here. As for our meeting,
you must leave that to me ; I shall be able to

discover some safe way of managing it. And
now the time has really come for us to bid each
other an eternal farewell. If you meet papa,
try to look as if you had been dissolved in
tears."

The effect of all this was that Claud, despite
his bliss, appeared at dinner that night with
so hang-dog an expression of countenance as
to completely allay any fears that may still have
disturbed Mr. Gervis's peace, and to distress
the tender-hearted Potts to that degree that she
could scarcely manage to eat anything at all.

CHAPTER IX.

PORT STE. MARIE.

A LINE drawn due south from the pier-heads at
Beachborough across some hundred miles or
so of sea would fall as nearly as possible upon
the town and harbour of Port Ste. Marie, a
chef-lieu d' arro7idissement of the department of
the Calvados, containing, according to the last
census, 9753 inhabitants, exclusive of 1500
English operatives, employed in the factories
of the banlieue. Port Ste. Marie is little
visited by tourists, having few attractions to
offer to persons in search of the novel or
beautiful, except a fine Norman church and
some scanty vestiges of an ancient keep frowning
above the tall white houses of the modern
town. Its denizens, though sharing In the
general picturesqueness of the fishing population
of northern France, possess nothing distinctive
in the way of physique or costume,

while the primitive nature of its sanitary
arrangements is apt to thrust itself somewhat
disagreeably upon the attention of the traveller.
What could have induced Mr. Claud to shape
his course for this uninteresting and evil-smelling
spot when he might just as well have
steered for Cherbourg or Havre, was more
than Mr. Evans, the master of the Siren, could
understand ; but Evans, whom many years'
experience had accustomed to the eccentric
movements of his employers, was a well-paid,
easy-going, good-natured person, and he consoled
himself with the reflection that at least
there was no 'drafted bar" at the entrance of
the Port Ste. Marie harbour, and that the town
must certainly contain some card-chantant at
which he could kill time, so soon as he should
have got his vessel safely alongside of the quay
and made all snug for the night.

Claud himself was willing enough to condone
the defective civilization of the little town Inconsideration
of the privacy which it afforded.
Landing early In the morning, after a long and
rather rough passage, he was delighted to perceive
that among the crowd which had collected
on the wooden pier to see the yacht come in
there was not a single well-dressed individual,
much less an Englishman. Consciousness of

guilt had so acted upon his nerves that the
mere sight of a fellow-countryman would have
made him fancy that all was discovered, and
it was a positive relief to him to learn that Her
Britannic Majesty's representative was not of
his own nationality.

'' M. le consist anglais'' said the smooth -
shaven waiter at the Hotel de Paris in answer
to his Inquiry; 'that must be M. THerlsson.
He! Jean — Pierre! it is M. I'Herisson, Is It
not, who is consul for everybody ? "

And a shrill voice replying from some unseen
quarter In the affirmative, Claud's Informant,
who was in the act of serving him with an
ample, if somewhat over-unctuous breakfast,
proceeded : '' Perfectly. Monsieur has only to
take the first turn to the left, on leaving the
hotel, and follow the rue des Cordeliers, which
mounts the hill. Monsieur will see the coat-of-arms
at the entrance of No. i6. M. I'Heris-
son lives on the second floor."

Following these directions, Claud soon reached
a gateway adorned not with one, but with many
coats-farms. There were the stars and
stripes of the United States, the spread eagle
of Germany, the white cross of Italy, and
numerous other well-known devices on neat
little shields, our own glorious lion and unicorn

VOL. II. o

finding a humble position between the kingdom
of Denmark and the republic of Guatemala.
Evidently the waiter had been guilty of no
exaggeration in describing M. I'Herlsson as
'' the consul for everybody ; " and It was a
striking proof of the parsimony with which
governments are wont to treat their agents
abroad that this pluralist should have been
driven to seek a lodorlnor on the second floor
above the entresol, with two milliners and a
Vine merchant beneath him.

Claud climbed the dirty, creaking stairs, and
was presently ushered Into an uncarpeted office
containing three or four rush-bottomed chairs,
a large writing-table, a number of tin boxes,
and very little else. M. le Consul was breakfasting,
the old connie who admitted him said ;
and, upon Claud's expressing a polite wish that
her master might not be disturbed, answered
reassuringly, with a short laugh, "// 7ze se
stranger pas allez ! "

Indeed the would-be bridegroom had to wait
a good half-hour before the door slowly opened
to admit a stout, sleepy-looking personage and
a fine whiff of garlic and pot-au-feu. M.
I'Herlsson advanced deliberately, wiping his
lips with a large pocket-handkerchief. Probably
he had not expected to encounter a

visitor of Claud's distinguished appearance ; for
he made a low bow and muttered a sort of
apology. They had not told him who It was
that was waiting. People were always coming
to bother him at all hours of the day upon the
most shallow pretexts. ''If It Is for a permission
to view the fortifications, monsieur, I
regret to be unable to procure it for you. The
authorities "

Claud explained that it was a matter of
personal business that had brought him to
Pvl. FHerisson's office. " I believe," said he,
*' that marriages between British subjects
abroad are generally solemnized in the presence
of the resident consul. Have you ever
been called upon to perform such a ceremony
? "

M. I'Herlsson, who had seated himself behind
the writing-table, and was taking a pinch ot
snuff, smiled — the long, slow smile of obesity.
'hundreds!" he answered. "We have here
quite a population of your compatriots — monsieur
Is, I presume, an Englishman, though he
speaks with a Parisian accent — a population ot
operatives. All that marries itself perpetually,
has children, demands to be domiciled in
France and to escape all taxes and liabilities —
it is incredible, the trouble that one has v/ith

them ! Monsieur is perhaps Interested in two
of these persons ? "

Claud did not much enjoy the process of
state his business ; but he had rehearsed the
scene beforehand, and was determined that he
would not be shamefaced over it.

'rit is my own marriage that I wish to be
performed in your presence, M. THerlsson,"
he said. '' Here Is my card. I have called
upon you to make the necessary arrangements
and to inquire what are the formalities to begone
through in these cases. For reasons,
with which I need not trouble you — family
reasons — I and my future wife desire to be
married quietly in a quiet place ; and we have
fixed upon Port Ste. Marie as being a town
in which our privacy Is not likely to be Intruded
upon. I trust that you will see no objection
to gratifying this — little whim of ours."

M. I'Herisson had adjusted a pair of silver-rammed
spectacles upon his nose, and after
examining Claud's card through them and then
surveying the speaker over them, passed his
hand once or twice across a vast and stubby
chin before he replied. Doubtless he was able
to form a pretty shrewd guess at the nature
of the business which he was being asked to
carry through, and it may have occurred to him

that the result of It might not improbably be
that he should feet himself into trouble.

Provided," said he at length, " that certain
conditions are fulfilled, I have no authority to
make objections. I beg you to observe, M.
Gervisse, that I ask for no information. I do
my duty as consul, upon your demand, and I
cannot be made to incur any responsibility,
beyond certifying that the parties are duly
qualified to contract a matrimonial engagement,
and that the requisitions of the law have been
complied with. If, for example — pardon me
the illustration — you should have taken it into
your head to marry your fennne de manage, no
blame could at any future time attach to me for
having enabled you to do what your family
might not approve of."

That is quite understood," answered Claud ;
*' and I will undertake that you shall incur no
annoyance whatever. Also I assure you that
I am not going to marry the femme de manage,
but a lady in my own rank of life. Now as to
those conditions that you mentioned."

I am empowered," said M. I'Herisson in a
gabbling, monotonous voice, as If determined to
act as far as possible the part of an automaton,
*'to grant a licence for a marriage, and to
solemnize the same, seven days after having

received due notice of one of the contracting"
parties having been resident not less than fifteen
days in the district to which I am accredited as
consul."

Three weeks ! that will be confoundedly
inconvenient," muttered Claud.

M. I'Herisson proceeded, without noticing
the aside — 'which notice must comprise a
solemn declaration that there is no lawful
hindrance or impediment to the marriage, and
that, where one of the parties is under age, the
consent of the person or persons whose consentis
required by the law has been given. Such,
monsieur, is the course of procedure in the case
of marriages with licence. Marriages without
licence, for which the fees are somewhat lower,
can only be solemnized after notice of both the
contracting parties having been resident in the
place for a period of seven days ; and this
notice must be posted in the consulate, in a
conspicuous position, during twenty-one successive
days "

Thank you ; that wouldn't do at all ; we
needn't trouble about that," interrupted Claud.
'' There doesn't seem to be very much difficulty
about the matter. I understand you, then, that
I shall have to take up my abode at Port Este.
Marie for three weeks. There is no way of
getting out of that obligation, I suppose ? "

i\I. rHcrisson shook his head solemnly.

Well ; it is a nuisance ; but it can't be
helped. I am much indebted to you for your
information, monsieur, and I will make the
proper declaration when the time comes. As
to the religious ceremony, there is, I believe, an
English resident clergyman here."

'without doubt: the reverend Higgins —
rue du Temple, No. 3 — an excellent man ! In
the exercise of my functions with regard to
British subjects, I am in the habit of paying
special attention to the recommendations of the
reverend Higgins. It is he who interests himself
in the welfare of his compatriots : I, you
understand — I am but a machine. Go and
see this good Higgins, M. Gervisse : he will
give you paternal counsels. For me — if I may
take the liberty, as an old man, of addressing
a word of caution to a young one — I would
remind you that there is not in this world a
more easy thing to gain, nor a more troublesome
thing to possess, nor a more difficult
thing to get rid of, than a wife."

And with this abominable apophthegm M.
I'Herisson took another pinch of snuff, and
bowed his visitor out.

Claud went down the stairs, laughing. Except
as regarded that tiresome sine giuz non

of a three weeks' sojourn at Port Ste. Marie,
things seemed to be shaping themselves in a
fairly satisfactory manner, and he was not
altogether sorry that the consul should have
divined the nature of the services required of
him, since it was evident that that fat and lazy
personage might be counted upon not to give
information to the young lady's friends, or to
make himself otherwise obnoxious in the matter.
It remained to be seen whether the parson
would prove equally complaisant.

Mr. Higgins was not to be found at his
residence, and had to be pursued into the dingy
suburb inhabited by his flock, where, after a
long and tortuous chase, he was at length run
down, hurrying from house to house, with a
bundle of books under one arm and a arose
packet of tea under the other. He was a small,
sandy-haired man, with a kind, ugly face, whose
rusty pepper-and-salt suit, broad white neckcloth
and straw hat seemed to proclaim him
a member of the moderate evangelical subdivision.
"Just the sort of good, conscientious
creature who might think it his duty to throw
the fat in the fire," thought Claud, taking a few
rapid mental notes of his new acquaintance.
Clearly this is a case for a little righteous
dissimulation."

To hoodwink worthy Mr. HIgglns was no
very difficult task ; and it only cost our young
Machiavelli a contribution of ten pounds
towards the church restorations and a patient
half-hour's audience of the sufferings of the
English poor at Port Ste. Marie to establish
himself firmly in the pastor's good graces.
The impression conveyed to the mind of the
latter was that his interlocutor was a wealthy
and benevolent man, whom eccentricity, or,
more properly speaking, good sense, had impelled
to give his friends the slip, and to celebrate
his wedding Said i'osd in a foreign land,
thus escaping those dreary nuptial festivities
which in England would have been unavoidable.
With subtle candour, Claud made no
secret either of his own name and address or
of those of the young lady to whom he was
engaged ; but it is to be feared that, in mentioning
Southlands and the yacht which Mr.
Higgins had seen entering the harbour that
morning, he omitted to explain that these desirable
possessions were not his own property.
He had made all the needful arrangements for
his marriage, he said, with the consul, before
whom, as he understood, the only legal contract
could be entered into. " But," he added, " we
shall wish to have the usual religious rite afterwards."


I should hope so indeed ! " cried Mn
Higgins, slightly scandalized.

'' That is a matter of course ; and therefore,
my dear sir, we shall probably claim your kind
offices in about a month's time. I will let you
know the exact date on my return. In the
meantime, I hope we shall see a good deal
of one another. Perhaps you and Mrs.
Higgins would pardon a bachelor's rough fare,
and dine with me on board the yacht this
evening ? "

From all this it will be perceived how readily
our fallen nature lends itself to the practice of
double-dealing, and with what ease a naturally
sensitive conscience may be stifled after a first
lapse from the straight path of veracity. Mr.
and Mrs. Higgins were entertained that night
on board the Sz7^en at a highly recherches little
dinner, to which, by an after-thought, M.
I'Herisson was also bidden ; and Claud set
sail for England on the following morning with
the pleasant conviction that he was leaving
none but friends and well-wishers behind him.

He was not asked at Southlands for anymore
information about his cruise than he
chose to volunteer. It was generally understood
In the household that he was suffering
under a heavy disappointment, which, however

salutary it might prove to be for him In the
bonorum demanded on all hands forbearance
for the time being ; and there was a tacit agreement
that he was to be allowed to recover
himself in his own way, and that no one was
to Interfere with his movements or worry him
with questions. Under ordinary circumstances,
Genevieve might have evinced something more
than silent sympathy with her brother ; but at
this especial time Genevieve happened to bea
good deal taken up with matters affecting
her own destiny — which matters both Lady
Croft and Freddy took care that she should
not forget.

It was the opinion of those who knew
Freddy best that their poor friend was very
far gone Indeed. That he should follow Miss
Gervis about like a dog proved nothing ; he
had followed so many ladies about In similar
fashion upon former occasions. But when he
was found, one morning, poring over a volume
of Browning's poems, with ruffled hair and a rueful
and distraught countenance, and could give
no other explanation of this astonishing conduct
than that a fellow really ought to improve his
mind, you know ; and when, without assigning
any reason whatever, he actually absented himself
from the great autumn handicaps, it was

evident that things had come to a truly serious
pass with him. Never before had man or
woman been known to keep Freddy Croft away
from Newmarket when the Cesarewitch and
the Cambridgeshire were being run.

Melancholy spectacle, I hear," remarked
Lord Lynchester, meeting the present chronicler
In St. James's Street, and deigning to recognize
him. " Girl plays the fiddle, and poor old
Freddy hops about after her like a tame bear,
they say. One more good man gone wrong,
eh?"

Making due allowance for a graceful freedom
of metaphor, the picture was only too true a
one. Whatsoever may have been the ties by
means of which the fair violinist held Freddy
In thrall — and whether they were fiddle-strings
or apron-strings or heart-strings signifies little
they were strong enough to deprive him not
only of liberty, but of the wish for it, and to
keep him at Southlands, a willing captive.

Claud found him there upon his return, and
took in the situation at a glance. So much
struck. Indeed, was he with the remarkable
discovery which he had made that he took an
early opportunity of communicating It to Miss
Potts, by whom it was anything but well
received.

My dear Mr. Claud," exclaimed that justly-irritated
duenna, '' do you think I have lost
the use of my eyes, or do you take me for a
deaf and dumb idiot ? You must pardon my
saying that, if you had been in full possession
of your own senses during the summer, you
would have found out before this what has been
patent to everybody else for months past."

Claud stroked his chin reflectively, and said,
'dear me!"

'rit has been a terrible trouble and anxiety
to me. Dear Genevieve is so reserved, and
I cannot ask for her confidence ; and I feel
that a great weight of responsibility rests upon
my shoulders, and I have no one to speak to
or to advise me," continued poor Miss Potts,
almost tearfully. " I hardly know what to
think or what to wish."

"Then I'll tell sou, Miss Potts; wish that it
may end in a match. Do you know, I am
very much pleased at this. It never occurred
to me that Freddy and Gen would be likely
to suit one another ; but If they do, I think we
may fairly congratulate them both. It seems
to me that it would be a capital thing in every
way."

I don't know ; I am not sure," said Miss
Potts doubtfully. " Sir Frederick is of a mercurial

temperament, I fear. And then, If
matters should turn out as we anticipate, what
would the Princess say ? I feel certain that
she would never forgive me."

'' Ah, yes ; you will get a blowing up from
that quarter, I dare say," observed Claud.
'' Varlnka, I suspect, would have liked to marry
Gen to a Frenchman or a Russian, and to
keep her under her own eye in Paris ; but
between you and me, I have a notion that the
governor does not mean to consent to any
arrangement of that kind."

o

*' What does he mean ? — what does he intend ?
that is what I want to know," cried Miss
Potts. " But of course you cannot tell me. No
one can tell what his projects may be ; and
often I am afraid that he would never consent
to making anybody happy. Do you ever say
your prayers, Mr. Claud ? "

''Do I what ? — do I — oh — er — yes, sometimes,
of course," answered Claud, looking a
little abashed.

'then, the next time that you do so, you
might pray Heaven to soften that — that — to
soften your father's heart. I may be doing him
an injustice — if so, I humbly ask pardon, and
hope I may be forgiven — but I can never look
at him without being reminded of Pharaoh, king
of Egypt."

Wh}^ ? Because he is plagued ? I know it
is a mere waste of breath to take up the
governor's defence before you, or Gen, or
Varna. The three of you have agreed to
make a scapegoat of him, and I suppose you
must be left to find out your mistake, and
repent at your leisure. They say a woman
cannot live without having somebody to love ;
but upon my word, I believe somebody to hate
is quite as essential a condition of feminine
happiness. One comfort is that the governor
doesn't care."

'' Neither did Pharaoh care. He could speak
smooth things, when it suited his purpose ; but
he hardened his heart, and he would not let the
people go," said Miss Potts, gathering up her
shawl majestically about her shoulders, and
preparing to quit the field.

*' Varna can't complain that she has not
been allowed to go, anyhow," retorted Claud.
But Miss Potts had already disappeared.

Probably self-accusation had a good deal todo
with Claud's championship of Mr. Gervis.
Not to him, at all events, had that much-abused
man shown himself a hard task-master. Fate,
it was true, had unhappily decreed that the
father and son should be antagonists upon one
important point ; but the former had declared

war openly, honourably, and in no ungenerous
fashion, whereas the latter could not but feel
that he was about to snatch the victory by
underhand means.

When, however, he confided his scruples to
Nina, as he found an opportunity of doing
before very long, she was able In some measure
to allay them.

I really don't see that you have been anything
but perfectly honest with Mr. Jervis''
she declared. '' You gave him fair warning
that you Intended to marry, and It Is not from
him that we are running away. It seems to me
that If anybody has a right to complain of being
taken In, It Is my father, not yours. But oh,
what does It matter ? They will both make a
great fuss at first, I dare say ; but things will
settle down quickly, and In a year's time they
will almost have forgotten that they ever objected
to our marriage."

Claud had not much confidence in the fulfilment
of this prediction so far as one of the
malcontents was concerned ; but time was too
precious to be wasted In debating the Inevitable,
and many important matters had to be talked
over and settled during the stolen meeting
which prudence compelled the lovers to cut as
short as might be. It was agreed that Claud

should return to France the next day, and that,
immediately upon the expiration of the three
weeks, Nina, accompanied by a trustworthy
maid, should join him. There is a small
steamer which plies regularly twice a week
between Beachborough and Port Ste. Marie,
usually arriving at the latter place early in
the morning, and it was by means of this
rather uncomfortable craft that Miss Flemyng
proposed to effect her flight.

*' No ; you are on no account to dream of
coming back for me," she said, in answer to
Claud's demurrer. " I know how to look after
myself and I shall enjoy the excitement of it
beyond everything. And you must not write :
let us have no unnecessary risks. The only
horrid part of it is that I shall literally have no
clothes, except what I can wear, or stuff into a
hand-bag ; but I shall be able to get an outfit
as soon as we reach Paris. Go now. If we
were to be caught together, or our plan were
discovered and put a stop to, I should simply
lie down and die of shame and disgust."

Claud has since declared that for no imaginable
consideration could he be induced to live
over again the three weeks of his compulsory
exile at Port Ste. Marie. For the first fortnight
it blew and rained incessantly ; he was

VOL. II. p

absolutely without means of killing time — for
he had judged It prudent to send the yacht
round to Cherbourg to await further orders —
M. THerlsson was not an entertaining companion
; and he dared not frequent the society
of Mr. HIgglns, who had an Innocent way of
putting the most embarrassing questions, and
who once threw him Into an agony of terror
by talking of treating himself to a two days'
holiday, if the weather should Improve, and
running across to Beachborough for a change.
When Claud heard this alarming proposition,
he said to himself that to Beachborough Mr.
HIgglns should not go, even though It should
be necessary to keep him at Port Ste. Marie
by pushing him Into the harbour at the moment
of embarkation ; but happily an unexpected
pressure of work prevented the pastor from
recurring to the subject, or seeing much of the
expectant bridegroom, who passed his days
chiefly In roaming about the muddy streets, in
asking at the poste resta^ite for letters and
receiving none, and In tormenting himself with
visions of calamities which might be occurring,
or about to occur, on the other side of the
water. What if Nina were to fall 111 ? — or if
her father were to insist upon sending her away
upon a lengthened visit to some relative ? — or

if some accident were to render it impossible
for her to catch the steamer ? Besides these
natural fears, he may have had sundry other half-acknowledged
misgivings ; for solitude, rain,
and suspense are enough to try the stoutest
heart; and, after all, it Is one thing to thrust
your head into a noose in a moment of excitement
and another to spend twenty-one days in
deliberately making preparations for the catastrophe.
But the heavy-footed hours marched
on, forming themselves into days and weeks,
and in the end came a brisk northerly wind,
with frost and sunshine and promise of a bright
wedding mornings.

One more trial, however, was In store for
Claud's already over-tried nerves. Wandering
among the ruins of the old castle one morning,
he became aware of a small party of equestrians
two ladies and three cavaliers — mounted on
those long-tailed, prancing steeds which are the
delight of the Parisian '' aux eauxT Evidently
some loiterers who had outstayed the season atone
of the watering-places which lie within
easy distance of Port Ste. Marie. Seeing them
dismount, and divining their Intention of picnicking
under the shadow of the keep, Claud
turned away, and was leisurely descending the
slope, v/hen one of the ladles caught sight of

him, and following him with quick steps, cut
him lightly over the shoulder with her rldlng-
whip. He wheeled round, and found himself
face to face with his step-mother.

- Varlnka ! "

At your service, monsieur. I saw the yacht
at Cherbourg yesterday ; I went on board, and
learnt that you were here ; and as long rides
are the only amusement left to me in the
detestable place where I am staying, I thought
It would give an object to our excursion to-day
if I were to seek you out In your retreat. Indiscreet,
if you like, mats enfin ! — "

'' Not in the least indiscreet," answered
Claud politely. " You are still at Trouville
then ? "

'' Till Thursday. Upon that day. Heaven
be praised, my lease of my chalet expires, and
I shall make a move upon Paris. So you are
delighted to see me, are you ? You have not
the appearance of being overjoyed. Never
mind ; I will tell no tales. Oh, I know my
world ; I know that when young men bury
themselves In a fishing-village, It is because
they are not alone there," says the little Princess,
with a smile full of meaning.

It was perhaps just as well that her experience
of the v/ays of young men should have misled

her in the present Instance, and Claud did not
defend himself against her insinuations. " I
know my world too," returned he, laughing ;
and I know that you did not come here for
the pleasure of meeting me. In what way can
I delight myself by serving you ? "

"In the simplest way possible. I want to
hear what is going on over there in England
what sic means to do with my poor Genevieve.
I have been most uneasy — most unhappy
about her ; and she writes the shortest
letters, and tells me nothing at all."

'' I thought Miss Potts sent you a volume of
news every week," said Claud.

'' Potts is a monster of deceit and ingratitude
! I have broken with Potts. She is in
the conspiracy against me, like the rest of you.
It is very hard to be able to trust nobody —
not even those whom one loves most ! " cried
Varna, with real tears in her eyes.

"What do you mean ?" asked Claud.

*' As if you did not know ! I have understood
it all from the first. His object is to deprive
me of the only creature who cares for me ; to
marry Genevieve in England, where he knows
that I shall never be able to see her, and to
leave me utterly alone in the world. But I do
not yet hold myself beaten ; and you may tell

him SO from me. I had his promise that he
would restore Genevieve to me free, and as
soon as I am established at home again, I
mean to claim it."

''If he promised you that, he will do it," said
Claud, prudently resolving to arouse no premature
storms by a reference to Freddy Croft.

Varna tapped her white teeth with the
handle of her whip meditatively. '* He is
quite clever enough to find a way of breaking
his word and keeping it at the same time,"
she remarked. '' But now tell me the truth ;
what is this young Croft ? Has he serious
Intentions ? is he dangerous ? does Genevieve
encourage him ? "

Claud, however, was very circumspect, and
would tell nothing. Certainly Freddy was
often at Southlands ; in the country one naturally
sees a good deal of one's neighbours. He
(Claud) really could not say whether Genevieve
liked him better than other young men. Should
have imagined that, if she had had any confidences
to make, she would have reposed them
in the Princess. Knew nothing of Mr. Gervis's
designs, and did not, for his part, believe that
his father had any. And so forth, and so forthcoming
out of his cross-examination, upon
the whole, not discreditably. After a time

Varlnka, iindincf that there was no Information
to be got out of him, let him go. She would
have introduced him to her friends and made
him welcome to a share of the good things
which were being carried up from the hotel ;
but he beQ:o:ed to be excused, not feelings himself
in the humour for social intercourse, and
took his leave.

'why do you not come and see me in
Paris ? " the Princess called after him. " Have
you not had enough of that horrible English
solitude ? "

I mean to go to Paris. I shall see you
there very soon," Claud answered. And he
wondered, as he strolled down towards the
town, Avhat kind of reception she would accord
to Mrs. Claud Gervis. Probably a gracious
one, he thought, for Varna always adored new
friends for a time ; moreover, a marriage which
was distasteful to her husband must, from that
fact alone, be agreeable to her. He had no
wish, however, that she should get any inkling
of what was imminent ; and it was with much
relief that, looking down from his bedroom
window an hour later, he saw her and her party
curvetting and clattering out of the courtyard
of the hotel.

The sun of his wedding morning was hardly

above the horizon before Claud was out upon
the cliff, watching anxiously for the approach
of the little Beachborough steamer. He had
a long time to wait, fidgeting to and fro, cold,
nervous, and filled with restless forebodings ;
for he had risen much too early, and his vigil
would certainly have been prolonged by an
hour or two, if the weather had been in its
normal condition at that season of the year.
But, as luck would have it, the day proved one
of those perfectly still ones which sometimes
intervene between the late autumn gales. A
thin layer of clouds was spread low above a
grey and glassy sea ; mists hung motionless
over the surface of the water ; and about eight
o'clock, long before the steamer was in sight,
Claud's ear caught the far-away beating of her
paddles.

Nina had enjoined him on no account to
meet her on the quay ; for the captain and
crew of the vessel, being Beachborough men,
would have recognized him, and naturally
drawn their own conclusions. He had, therefore,
to return to the hotel, and to pass through
a further period of suspense, which seemed to
him interminable ; but just as he had made up
his mind that some awful calamity must have
occurred, the clanging bell which gave notice

of the arrival of travellers at the Hotel de Paris
roused the echoes, and Miss Flemyng, calm,
smiling, and not veiled, walked in through the
porte-cohere, attended by her maid and
followed by a porter wheeling two trunks of
goodly dimensions upon a barrow She was so
cool, and bore the inquisitive glances of the
landlord and his underlings with such complete
indifference that Claud was ashamed of his own
perturbation.

I have managed to bring a few things with
me, after all, you see," she said, pointing to the
luggage. '' When the time came nearer, I felt
that it would be so horribly inconvenient to
have nothing to wear that I resolved to bear
away some of my belongings or to perish in the
attempt. I told papa I was going to stay with
a friend — literal truth, you know, which is what
you have such a weakness for — drove to the
station, boxes and all, dismissed the carriage,
walked down to the boat, and then sent two
sailors back to claim my property. We had a
delightful passage ; only I am almost dead of
starvation. Will there be time for me to have
some breakfast ? Yes ? Well then, please
order them to get something ready while I am
dressing, and we will tell each other all our
news when I come down. I am too tired and
hungry and dirty to talk now."

MATRIMONY.

Her self-possession had its effect upon Claude
who awoke to the advisability of keeping up
appearances in the presence of so many curious
spectators ; and he contrived presently to eat
a very good breakfast opposite to her, while
informing her in an undertone of the arrangements
which he had made and instructing her
as to her part in the impending formalities.

Never, probably, was a runaway marriage
celebrated in a more matter-of-course manner.
Breakfast over, the bride and bridegroom
walked together to the consulate ; and therein
the presence of M. I'Herisson, Claud Jervis,
bachelor, and Georgia Flemyng, spinster,
having declared that they knew of no impediment
why they should not be joined
together in matrimony, and having called
upon the two attendant clerks to witness that
they took one another respectively as husband
and wife, were united by a tie as binding
as the law could make it. All passed off
smoothly ; but when the little procession
entered the church, and Mr. Higgins perceived
that the lady was accompanied by
neither father, mother, nor guardian, that worthy
divine's countenance fell, and he plainly began
to suspect that all was not quite as It should be.
As, however, he had got his surplice on, and as

the parties were already de jttre man and wife,
it was rather too late in the day to hesitate
about pronouncing .the Church's blessing upon
their union, and he confined himself to pointing
out to Claud, in an agitated aside, that there
was apparently no one present to give the
bride away. M. THerlsson gallantly offered
to repair this omission ; and Mrs. HIgglns, In
the absence of a more duly qualified person,
was good enough to drop a few motherly tears
upon her open prayer-book.

Late that same afternoon, when the newly-married
pair were driving away from the Paris
terminus, the following succinct telegram reached
the person to whom It was addressed.

"■ N. Flemyng, Port Sic, Alaric, to J . Flemyng,
Esq., The Moated Ho2tse, Beachborottgh, England.
— Married to Claud Gervis this morning.
Sorry to have caused inconvenience. Better
put announcement in papers, save appearances.
Will write tomorrow."

CHAPTER X.

A PLEASANT PARTY.

The news of the escapade recorded in the last
chapter created, as may be supposed, no small
stir in Beachborough and its neighbourhood,
and was not slow to spread itself over a much
wider area. Asiatics, it is said, have some
mysterious manner of transmitting intelligence
from city to city with greater rapidity than any
known means of communication can carry it.
I have no personal experience of Indian
bazaars ; but I am continually coming across,
in my own country, phenomena in the way
of conveying information which I am sure
would be no discredit to Delhi, Baroda, or
Peshawur ; and it is a fact, the explanation of
which I leave to the curious, that whereas Mr.
Flemyng can hardly have received the despatch
telling him of his daughter's flight before six
o'clock p.m., I was accosted at eleven o'clock

that same night, In the smoking-room of my
club, by a Lynshire acquaintance, who asked
me whether I had heard that young Gervis had
bolted with that pretty girl who used to be
always about with the Crofts.

Confirmatory details reached me later.
From my grandmother (to whom I applied)
I obtained, it Is true, nothing but the briefest
and driest statement of the facts, for Mrs.
Knowles is not fond of committing her sentiments
to paper ; but others were less guarded
in their utterances, and as there are many
Beachborough people who are kind enough
to look me up whenever they spend a day or
two in London, I was furnished, before the
week was out, with a full and particular account
of how the affair had happened, and also, as
I need hardly say, with several versions of
how it had not. My informants differed considerably,
both as to the circumstances of the
case and as to their verdict upon them, some
taking the part of the old people, some that
of the young, some asserting that Claud had
a considerable fortune In his own right, which
his father was compelled to surrender to him
on his marriage, others that the improvident
couple had not a penny between them, and
would soon be reduced to beggary, while a

few — these were ladles, I am afraid — had
ascertained for a fact that there had been no
marriage, at Port Ste. Marie or elsewhere,
until Mr. Flemyng had threatened to cross
the water himself, and resort to measures of
compulsion. Nearly all, however, were agreed
that it was a discreditable, not to say disgraceful
business from beginning to end.

But perhaps the general view was most
aptly and concisely expressed by Colonel Finch,
whom I met one evening descending the steps
of the military club to which he belongs, and
who caught me by the arm while he jerked
out a few sentences in his peculiar, high-pitched
voice.

*' So our young friend at Southlands has
been making an ass of himself, I hear — making
an ass of himself — what ? Girl's fault, of
course — always is in these cases — yes. Sharp
girl too — eye to the main chance — what ? But
must have taken some romantic notion into
her head — some romantic notion. Stupid
affair, very : what the young fellows call bad
form. When you and I were boys " — pretty
cool, this, considering that Colonel Finch used
to tip me in my school-days — " when you and
I were boys, Knowles, that sort of thing used
to be done. Gretna Green, and a blacksmith

fellow who tied the knot for you, and the irate
parents following you in a post-chaise, and all
that — yes. We used to be in a deuce of a
fright of our fathers, and small blame to us !
But nobody is in a fright of his father nowadays,
and nobody ever thinks of running away
to be married. Only get laughed at if you
do. Great mistake to get laughed at — yes."

I didn't laugh much myself, though I was
certainly inclined to agree with Colonel Finch
in thinking that poor Claud had acted the part
of an ass in this matter. A lonely bachelor of
my age, without home ties or much of a life
of his own to look forward to, is apt to interest
himself in the fortunes of younger men, and
to experience vicariously their loves and ambitions,
their failures and successes. I have
identified myself in this way with a good many
promising youths, first and last, and I am
bound to say that most of them have disappointed
me abominably. Here, for instance,
was one of whom considerable things might
reasonably have been expected — a fellow with
a handsome face, winning manners and good
expectations, not to mention a share of brains
considerably above the average, — saddling
himself, at the outset of his career, with a
flirting wife, quarrelling with his father, and

surrendering the liberty which, in my humble
judgment, all sensible folks ought to preserve
up to the age of thirty at least. When people
in whom I feel an interest behave like that, I
can't help resenting their conduct as something
in the nature of a personal slight ; and what
added to my annoyance in the present instance
was that my annual Christmas visit to Beach-borough
was at hand, and that I had been
looking forward to a renewal of my friendship
with young Gervis, for whose future guidance,
indeed, I had been at the pains of sketching out
sundry schemes which must now be rendered
abortive.

In my grandmother's drawing-room, which
I entered, a few days later, simultaneously with
the afternoon tea which I drink and she
despises, I dwelt with some bitterness upon
the frustration of these well-meant designs.
I had hoped, I said, to induce Claud to read
for the bar ; to get him up to London, where
he would have been able to combine instruction
in the laws and constitution of his country with
a practical insight into the workings of modern
English society. I had looked forward to
seeing him in parliament, pushing his way
towards the front in political life, which is the
first and best of all occupations, if only a man

have the requisite means to enable him to
pursue it. But now he had done for himself.
With a wife and a diminished income, and a
host of potential children, and an offended and
capricious father (who, by the way, might live
for another twenty years) in the background,
what hope was there that he would ever lift
his head above the struggling crowd of indigent
mediocrities ? It was most disheartening to
be baulked in this way time after time — enough
to disgust a man with his fellow-creatures. I
concluded by observing, with more truth than
originality, that women had been at the root
of all mischief and trouble from the days of
Eve downwards.

But my grandmother was, for reasons best
known to herself, in a bad temper, and denied
me the solace of her sympathy.

There are more fools walking about in
breeches than in petticoats, according to my
notion," said she, in answer to my last remark ;
'rand for a downright mischievous fool, commend
me to one who is for ever meddling with
his neighbour's business. When a man has
made a failure of his own life," she added,
rather cruelly, " I can't for the life of me see
why he should fancy that he has a gift for
assisting Providence to shape the lives of other

VOL. II. Q

people. I don't mean to discuss the Gervlses
with you. I've heard them and their affairs
and their ways of going on chattered over
during the last few months till I am. sick and
tired of the subject. There are a dozen people
coming to dinner presently. You can gossip
with them to your heart's content, and nothing
will give them greater pleasure than to furnish
you with all the particulars of this precious
elopement. In the meantime you had better
go and get dressed, or you will make the first
arrivals your enemies for life by not being in
the room to receive them."

Have I ever, I wonder, got through one of
my grandmother's ceremonious dinner-parties
without contriving to offend somebody ? I
dread those solemn banquets : the recollection
of past blunders leads me to approach them
with so much nervousness that some fresh
fiasco on my part is almost a foregone conclusion.
If only the dear old lady would take
the marshalling: of her guests into her own
hands, or if at least she would allow me to
carry a written list of them, properly divided
into couples, all might be well ; but she can
never be brought to consent to either of these
courses, and the consequence is that I am
perpetually violating the order of precedence

in a way which nothing but respect for Mrs.
Knowles could induce the sighted persons to
overlook. I know that I am much to blame In
this matter. I admit that, If the Duchess of
High town, who Is the daughter of a duke, is
entitled to display wrath at being asked to walk
behind the Duchess of Nightgown, whose
father was only a marquis, Mrs. Whipper, as
being the daughter of a baron's younger son's
eldest son, has an equal right to complain of
being sent In to dinner after Mrs. Snapper,
who can but claim a baronet for her grandfather;
but I think it might be taken as an
extenuating circumstance that we have a red
book to guide us in the former case and not in
the latter ; and as my own lot in life brings me
into contact rather with baronets' granddaughters
than with duchesses, I hope I may be
permitted to take this opportunity of assuring
my friends that when I err, my offence should
not be attributed to Ignorance or want of
respect for their several dignities, but simply
to the Inroads of a treacherous memory. I am
sorry to say that, upon the occasion of the feast
which the progress of my narrative now leads
me to refer to, I fell into a more than usually
stupid blunder.

*' Good Gad, sir ! you're all wrong," whispered

Hicks to me in agitated accents, as I
passed him on my way towards the diningroom,
with Mrs. Pender on my arm.

Of course I was all wrong ! I recollected
immediately Mrs. Bagshawe's grandfather in
the peerage of Ireland — or rather, I recollected
that he belonged to her ; for In truth the
deceased nobleman had been very present in
my mind all the time that I had been dressing
for dinner, only I had fathered him upon the
wrong lady, — and now here was Mrs. Bagshawe
taking her place upon my left hand with an
expression of sorrow rather than of anger upon
her face, while the Admiral, less accustomed to
self-repression, was glowering at me furiously
from the other end of the table.

We don t ignore these little mistakes in
Beachborough. We expect a full and speedy
apology for them, and I don't know what would
not happen if it were withheld. I made haste
to excuse myself as best I could to my neighbour.
"So stupid of me ! I can't think how I
can have made such a mistake ! All I can do
Is to throw myself upon your kindness," etc.,
etc.

*' Oh, it is of no consequence," she answers
sweetly. " For my own part, I am perfectly
indifferent as to who may take me Into dinner

SO long as it is not a disagreeable person.
Still, there is a right way and a wrong way of
doing everything — isn't there, Mr. Knowles ? "

Quite so. I hang my abashed head. Presently,
however, I become aware that Mrs.
Bagshawe does not intend to be hard upon me
this evening. From the pensive smile with
which she contemplates me I gather that only
a sense of what is due to herself keeps her from
at once condoning my offence and allowing
bygones to be bygones. Once or twice she
opens her lips, gives a sort of gasp and a
swallow, and closing them again, as if with an
effort, looks down at her plate. From of old
I know the interpretation of these signs. Mrs.
Bagshawe has something of interest to communicate
to me, and she is on tenter-hooks lest
that pushing woman Mrs. Pender should forestall
her. I feel that the least I can do is to
give her a lead over the first fence, so to speak.

Any Beachborough news, Mrs. Bagshawe ? "
I inquire pleasantly.

Well — " she begins, her expressive countenance
becoming forthwith irradiated with smiles.
*' But perhaps I ought not to talk about it.
And very likely it might be no news to you,
who are such a great friend of the family."

'* I assure you I have heard next to nothing,"

I reply, wishing to please her. *' I know,,
of course, that there has been a clandestine
marriage ; but my information does not extend
much further."

Oh, that is a very old story," says Mrs.
Bagshawe quite contemptuously ; " everybody
knows all about ^/la^. But really they are
such very strange people — there always seems
to be something. Have you not heard anything
lately about Miss Gervis ?"

I shake my head.

What, nothing about her and Sir Frederick
Croft ? Oh, Mr. Knowles, I am sure you
must have heard ; only you do not choose to
commit yourself. You are so careful."

I protest against this unfounded accusation.
A certain amount of reserve before strangers
may, I point out, be advisable ; but what need
can there be for weighing every word when
one is in the company of old friends, whose
discretion is notorious ? Thus encouraged,
Mrs. Bagshawe confesses that she hates your
over-cautious people, and without further beating
about the bush, plunges into the midst of
her subject : —

I heard it this afternoon from Miss Penne-father,
who had just seen Lady Croft, and who
says there cannot be the slightest doubt about

the truth of it. Sir Frederick proposed three
days ago, and Mr. Gervis simply wouldn't hear
of the match. No reason o^iven — no conditions
suggested — nothing ! Simply a direct refusal.
And that, although the girl herself had accepted
him 'wide avidity.' The expression is Miss
Pennefather's, not mine, and I must say that
I don't think it a very proper one. She says
Lady Croft is in a dreadful state about it.
Everybody knows his own business best, I
suppose ; but really, after all that has taken
place — don't you think it most extraordinary
conduct, Mr. Knowles ? "

*' Oh, I never heard of such a thing."
Just what I said myself ! " cries Mrs.
Bagshawe, rapping the table emphatically with
her knife ; " my very words ! ' Miss Penne-father,'
I said, ' I never heard of such a thing ! '
You see, if the young man had not been led
on by every possible means, if he had not been
encouraged to almost live in the house, and
to go on in such a way that the whole county
has been talking about him and her, it would
be quite another case. I should be the last
person to deny that Sir Frederick is in many
respects undesirable as a son-in-law ; he is not
at all the sort of husband whom I should
choose for one of my girls, for instance. But

Mr. Gervis must have known perfectly well
what he was about all through the summer;
he has plenty of wits, I'll say that for him ;
and he cannot have had any doubt as to what
the end of it would be. Depend upon it, there
is more in all this than meets the eye. What
is the man's motive ? — that's what puzzles me —
what is his motive ? "

'' Pride,' says Mrs. Pender, in a deep,
lugubrious voice. Mrs. Pender is a person
of few words ; but what she does say is usually
much to the point. " The pride that exalted
itself shall be abased," she continues. " I have
observed this man since he came among us.
He arrived here with a doubtful reputation —
whether justly earned or not I do not say ;
I judge no man — but he was received with
reserve, perhaps with some little coldness, and
his object ever since has been to avenge himself
upon us. Having no children myself, it
does not become me to boast that I should
refuse a son-in-law of Sir Frederick Croft's
position ; but it cannot be denied that, speaking
from a worldly point of view, Sir Frederick
is the most desirable match in Lynshire, and
doubtless Mr. Gervis imagines that in rejecting
him he has shown himself superior to us all.
But let him take heed. Already one chastening

blow has fallen upon him : It may yet be
needful for his soul's welfare that Providence
should humble him even to the dust."

Mrs. Pender is one of the most prominent
and earnest members of the Vicar of Trinity's
flock. Upright, charitable (In the almsgiving
sense of the word), a friend to missionaries,
and a deadly foe to ritualism, Romanism,
scepticism, dancing, and card-playing — all of
which she brackets together in one comprehensive
anathema — she is held in high esteem
by a certain section of the community, but is
no favourite In our little society, which likes
Its whist-parties and other Innocent pastimes.
"Gad, sir!" said the Admiral to me, upon
one occasion, '' If that woman is as cock-sure
of getting to Heaven as she professes to be,
I don't think poor old Pender will mind much
If he finds himself booked for t'other place."
She has but to open her lips to insure a prompt
contradiction from Mrs. Bagshawe.

Pride Indeed ! " cries that lady ; "oh, my
dear Mrs. Pender, that Is a little too absurd !
No doubt we all have our besetting sins, and I
could name one or two people who, for some
reason or other, fancy themselves better than
the rest of the world ; but you will never
convince me that Mr. Gervis is so devoid of

common sense as to suppose that anybody,
except himself and the Crofts, would care
whether he sent Sir Frederick about his business
or not. No, no ; he must have some less
far-fetched reason than that for his actions.
But I don't think you know him personally,,
do you ? Didn't somebody tell me that he had
never returned your visit ? Very rude of him,
I must say ! But perhaps it was an oversight."

"Whoever told you that," answers Mrs.
Pender, with rather unchristian warmth, *told
you a deliberate falsehood. We have exchanged
visits with the Southlands people ; but
I was not anxious that the acquaintance should
go further. I did not desire to be seen frequently
in the house of a man who has no settled
religious convictions. Indeed, I often doubt
whether I am not wrong in continuing to accept
the hospitality of this place even to the limited
extent that I do."

Ah, well ; the remedy is in your own hands,,
you know," observes Mrs. Bagshawe.

In this way the controversy assumed a more
directly personal complexion, and Mr. Gervis's.
domestic affairs were temporarily lost sight of.
But as soon as the ladies had left us, and I had
changed my chair, according to custom, for that
just vacated by my grandmother, the topic was

reverted to with a promptitude which convinced
me that Beachborough was as much interested
as ever in the proceedings of its incomprehensible
neighbour. An enforced silence had, I
suspect, been hitherto observed, owing to the
presence of Mrs. Knowles, whose disapprobation
of idle talk is well known, and who had maintained
a particularly stern and awful demeanour
throughout the evening ; but this restraint upon
conversation being now removed, there was
nothing to prevent Admiral Bagshawe from
speaking out his mind with his usual openness.

The most outrageous piece of swagger and
vulgar ostentation that could be imagined" —
that was the Admirals opinion of it. "Who
the dickens cares whether Gervis is such a
dashed fool as to think his daughter too good
for anybody in Lynshire or not ? Times are
changed, I suppose. I have always understood
that offers of marriage were considered as confidential
communications ; but here we have
this fellow rushing down to the town post-haste,
and telling the whole story to the first old
woman he meets. Dashed ungentlemanly conduct,
I call it — and impertinent too."

A modest interpolation to the effect that
Lady Croft, not Mr. Gervis, appeared to have
been Miss Pennefather's informant did not

avail to lessen the severity of the Admirers
strictures.

'' I don't care a brass farthing who spread the
news ; what I say is, the news ought not to
have been spread at all ; and wouldn't have
been, unless Gervis had intended that it should.
Don't tell me ! "

Mr. Pender quotes the old saying about
washing dirty linen at home in an impressive
voice, as though that somewhat unsavoury
metaphor had just emerged from his own active
brain, and goes on to observe that when people
give themselves airs, one naturally inquires
what ground they have for doing so. Who, he
asks, are these Gervises, after all } What does
anybody know about them, except that they
have plenty of money ? Here some one halfway
down the table — a mere raw youth of two
or three and forty, who ought to know better
than to interrupt his seniors — has the temerity to
mumble something about " a good old family."

'' I believe, sir," says Mr. Pender loftily,
*' that that is a distinction to which most of us
here can lay claim. My own family, I may say,
is both a good and an old one."

At this the Admiral gives a tremendous
barking cough which makes the glasses ring (for
indeed it is a matter of notoriety that Pender

per made his money in trade, which we in
Beachborough still hold to be quite irreconcilable
with gentility), and General Blair, catching
an echo of this familiar war-cry, lifts his hand to
his ear, and asks, '' Eh ? what's that ? — what's
he say ? "

The Admiral squares himself to face his
neighbour, and roars out — " Mr. Pender — says
he belongs — to a good — old — family."

"Oh, ah! yes — yes — capital, capital !" answers
the other veteran, chuckling.

I fear our poor old friend General Blair is
breaking up fast. After this brief contribution
to the harmony of the evening, he sinks down
in his chair, and relapses into a smiling silence.
The conversation is taken up by fresh speakers,
and as it proceeds, I perceive that Mr. Gervis
has not known how to make friends for himself
in the land of his birth. One remarks that, for
such a rich man as he is said to be, he has not
done much in the way of hospitality ; another
complains of his " nasty, sneering way of speaking
to you ; " a third has noticed that he can
never look you in the face ; it is universally
agreed that he holds his head a deuced sight too
high, by George, and that the misfortune that
has fallen upon him in the matter of his son s
marriage has been richly deserved.

Whence all this acrimony ? To any one
unacquainted with Beachborough it may appear
a little inexplicable. I don't know whether
other small towns resemble ours ; but with us
there has ever existed a strong feeling of
solidarity — if I may be allowed to borrow a
foreign word for which I can find no right
equivalent. We cannot endure that a man
should live among us and not be of us.
Snubbing we can bear ; quarrelling we can
bear, and even enjoy ; but what wounds us in
our most sensitive part is to be ignored ; and
it was of this offence that Mr. Gervis had been
guilty. With the exception of that one appearance
of his at the yeomanry ball, he had taken
no part in local festivities ; he had declined
the invitations of the residents, and had sent
them none in return ; he had left cards at their
respective doors, without asking to be admitted ;
he had behaved. In short, as if there were no
flourishing sea-port and celebrated watering-place
at his gates. Therefore it was that Mrs.
Pender relied confidently upon Providence to
humble him to the dust ; therefore it was that
her lord demanded to know who he was ; therefore
Admiral Bagshawe accused him of vulgar
ostentation, and the chorus rejoiced over his
calamities. The Admiral tersely summed up

the case aofalnst him as we rose from the
table.

All dashed fine," says he ; " but that sort
of thing won't do with me. I mean to say,
I don't care to put up with it. All my life long
I've adopted one and the same plan with
fellows who try to come the great man over
me and ride the dashed high horse. I let 'em
alone, sir — I let 'em alone."

It occurred to me that this form of chastisement
would probably be accepted by Mr.
Gervis with a good deal of equanimity ; but
I need hardly say that I kept my thoughts
to myself, and we went up to the drawing-room
to discover my grandmother seated in
solitary state by the fireside, and the other
ladies collected in a compact phalanx, their
old noses almost touching the warmth of
earnest conversation. From the few words
that caught my ear as we made our entry, I
gathered that the subject of Miss Pennefather's
startling news had not yet been exhausted.
I hope the old women enjoyed themselves
during the hour that succeeded : the old men
did not, I know. We cordially detest that
postprandial hour in the drawing-room ; but
etiquette commands us to submit to it. No
one dares to move until the lady highest in

rank has risen from her chair ; and then the
rest of the company promptly jump up, and
troop out of the room in her wake.

When I went upstairs again, after seeing
the last of the guests into their fly, I found that
Mrs. Knowles had already got out the old
family bible, and was waiting, spectacles ort
nose, for evening prayers, which ceremony is
never dispensed with, even on dinner-party
nights, under her roof. I knew, therefore, that
any reference, that night, to Freddy Croft's
alleged disappointment would be considered
inopportune ; and I had to go to bed without
ascertaining whether my grandmother knew
anything as to its truth. Nor did she prove
to be in a more communicative mood the next
morning. I spent that day partly at the club,
partly in paying certain duty-calls, debating
all the time with myself whether I would goto
Southlands or not. I hesitated until the
early darkness fell and it was too late to think
of it any longer, and then returned to South
Crescent ; but at five o'clock I was destined to
receive confirmation of Mrs. Bagshawe's story
from the best of all sources. For at that hour,
who should walk in, looking a trifle older and
feebler, I thought, than when I had seen him
last, but Mr. Gervis himself ?

He was so obllelne as to declare that he was
particularly glad to see me In Beachborough
again. Apart, he said, from the pleasure which
it naturally gave him to renew our acquaintance,
he must plead guilty to a selfish reason
for welcoming me back — the hope, namely,
that I would be kind enough to give him
some assistance in the carrying out of a troublesome
duty which had devolved upon him. I
at once surmised that I was about to be asked
to act in some manner as an intermediary
between Southlands and Croft Manor, and
hastened to assure Mr. Gervis of my readiness
to be of use to him in any way that lay within
the range of my poor abilities. Perhaps I may
have an idea that I am peculiarly fitted by
nature for the office of a peacemaker, and that
my friends may credit me with some power of
distinguishing myself in that modest capacity.
It was with a good deal of surprise, therefore,
that I learnt the nature of the services required
of me.

I am going," said Mr. Gervis, after politely
thanking me in anticipation, " to entertain the
natives. It will be a great trouble — an especial
trouble under existing circumstances ; but I
feel that it ought to be done, and I am sure
that Mrs. Knowles will agree with me that

VOL. II. R

duty must be placed above all other considerations.
It was to consult her, in fact, with
regard to invitations and so on that I came
here ; and now I have the good fortune to fall
upon her grandson, who will be even better
able to help me, and who must expect to suffer
the penalty of bearing a character for good-nature.
If Claud had been here I should have
left the arrangement of all details to him ; but
Claud, as you know, has left me. I trust, Mr.
Knowles, that you won't refuse to come to the
aid of an old man, who finds himself suddenly
deprived of his right hand through no fault of
his own."

Who could resist so pathetic an appeal ? It
is true that it was not uttered in very pathetic
accents ; but weakness in any shape was hardly
to be expected of Mr. Gervis, and knowing, as
I did, what Claud and he had been to one
another, my pity for the forlorn father needed
no artificial stimulus. At the risk of being
thought impertinent, I could not help telling
him how sorry I had been to hear of Claud's
ill-advised marriage.

He shrugged his shoulders expressively. '' I
did what I could to prevent it," said he ; " but
I failed. Matrimony, it would appear, presents
especial dangers to our family. I am sorry for

Claud ; but he has chosen for himself, with his
eyes open, and he must take the consequences.
I wish he could have made it convenient to put
off his nuptials until after this festival, or at
least that he had thought of leaving me some
sort of instructions to work upon. Ought I
to encourage local enterprise, do you think ? — or
would you advise me to write up to London ?
I have heard that there are contractors there
who will take the whole business off your hands,
and provide you with everything — band, lights,
supper, and all the rest of it — at a fixed charge."

*' You don't mean to say," ejaculated my
grandmother, peering at him over her spectacles,
that you are thinking of giving a ball ! "

*'' Subject to your approval, my dear Mrs.
Knowles. I have not sent out my invitations
yet ; but I can see no other way of satisfying
the community at large. To receive all these
good creatures at dinner would probably bring
about my demise long before the list was exhausted
; and besides, there would not be time,
for in a week or ten days from now I intend to
break up my establishment here."

*' I suspected how it would be," said my
grandmother, with a grim chuckle. '' I thought
Beachborough would not do for very long. So
you are off on your travels again ? "

I am off somewhere — where I can hardly
say as yet. I own I have not the fortitude to
face a Hfe of complete solitude at Southlands ;
and I am sending my daughter away to Parison
this day week. I proposed to have the ballon
the night before her departure. With that
final flare-up we shall disappear as abruptly as
we came ; having, I hope, done something
towards enlivening you all during our stay."

'' Hum ! — yes ; we can't complain of you on
that score. And a pretty mess you have made
of things, first and last ! I should like to know
what you mean by it all."

Mr. Gervis laid his head on one side, and
surveyed the old lady with his bland interrogative
smile.

Now it is no use your putting on that face,"
said my grandmother, nodding at him in a
resolute manner, " because you can't intimidate
me, and I intend to have it out with you before
you leave."

With all my heart, dear Mrs. Knowles.
Shall we have it out now ? "

My grandmother looked at me a little
dubiously. I am sorry to say that she has a
poor opinion of my discretion. I got up at
once ; but Mr. Gervis arrested me with a
deprecatory gesture.

** My dear sir, pray do not stir. We are not
going to talk secrets ; and I have some hope
that your presence may induce your grandmother
to spare me as far as her conscience will
allow her. Perhaps I may be permitted to urge,
as an additional plea in favour of clemency, that
I have had to suffer many things at the hands
of various ladies during the last few days."

'' Serve you right ! " cried Mrs. Knowles,
pitilessly.

*' Very likely ; but if you had seen Lady Croft
in — shall we say the tantrums ? — for three hours
together at a stretch, you might possibly admit
that I have done a fair amount of penance.
Miss Potts, too, when brought to bay, has a
marvellous flow of language at command. You
were asking what I meant by it all, which is, I
presume, tantamount to asking what I mean by
declining to sanction an engagement between
my daughter and young Croft."

Mrs. Knowles nodded as before.

Well, I have not the slightest objection
to telling you. You will probably disbelieve
me ; but that is not my fault. If you, and
other people choose to set up a theory that
the race of monsters is not extinct, I can't
help it. I am not a chimera ; I don't rampage
about the world, gobbling up fair youths and

tender maidens, and exulting over their dying
agonies ; I am nothing more extraordinary thana
perplexed nineteenth century father, with
notions of duty — expediency — whatever you
like to call It. You consider me devoid of all
natural affection ; and there you are certainly
right. Nevertheless, I have an Idea that
nature Intended the experience of parents to
serve as a protection to their children ; and
my experience teaches me that people who
rush off helter-skelter to get married for no
other reason than that they happen to have
fallen in love with one another usually have
reason to repent of their bargain In a surprisingly
short time. That has been my chief
reason for acting In the way that has caused
so much disturbance. Another, and a less
Important one. Is that, when the Princess left
England, I gave her a sort of half-promise
that on Genevieve's return to her protection
she should be unhampered by any matrimonial
engagement. There Is yet a third, which I
mention with all diffidence ; namely, that I do
not remember to have ever come across a
couple more ill-suited by tastes and habits to
spend their lives together than these two.
Taking all this into consideration, I refused
to entertain Croft's proposal. You may Imagine

the distressing scenes that ensued, and the
hard words with which I was pelted from all
sides. But the heat of the struggle is over
now, and, with the exception of Lady Croft,
who, I am sorry to say, is still very angry, weare
all tolerably good friends. There is to be
no engagement ; but the young people (of
course) are going to remain faithful to one
another through thick and thin ; and in two
years, when Genevieve will have attained her
majority, they will be free to renew their vows,
if they are still so inclined. Time and absence
will thus have full opportunity of doing their
work. If our young friends rise superior to
them, they will only have sacrificed twenty-four
months of beatitude, which, terrible as it
is, will be no great matter to look back upon.
If, on the other hand, they change their minds,
how thankful they will be to me for having,
in the plenitude of my wisdom, saved them
from a lifetime of repentance ! And now, my
dear Mrs. Knowles, you have heard all about it."

"Ah!" said Mrs. Knowles; 'rand do you
know 'what the upshot of this will be ? "

'' Not in the least. Do you ?"

Why, yes. You will have another elopement
from your house before you are much
older."

'' I think not. Genevieve is a minor, you
must bear in mind. Moreover, the apples of
the Hesperides were not more safe than she
will be under the dragon-eyes of Potts."

'' Well, well ! " sighed my grandmother,
somewhat softened ; '' you may be right, or
you may be wrong ; I don't set myself up to
judge. But one thing is clear : you have
broken up your home, and turned your children
against you. I will go so far as to say that
I am sorry for you, Vincent Gervis."

Why ? You would not be sorry if you
knew how exactly things have fallen out in
accordance with my wishes. I didn't want the
girl to marry in haste ; I didn't want to marry
her out of hand to an Englishman ; still less
did I want the Princess to marry her to some
dubious sort of foreigner. The situation is
precisely what I should have chosen. Once
she is established in Paris, the Princess will
take very good care that she does not see
much of Master Freddy ; she herself, being of
a somewhat contrary disposition, will refuse to
look at any of her step-mothers p^^oif^^-^s ; and
I, like a guardian angel, shall hover round,
watching the progress of affairs, and perhaps
keeping my eye upon some more suitable
candidate, should any such turn up in the nick

of time. For, between ourselves, I have no
great belief in the amiable Frederick's tenacity
of purpose."

'' Do you mean me to understand, then, that
all this is a pre-arranged plot ? " asked my
grandmother, in some surprise.

Heaven forbid ! I never attempt to guide
events ; I only shape my conduct in accordance
with them. I may claim for myself that I
foresaw probabilities ; nothing more. And
now, since it appears that I am not going to
be scolded, may I revert to the business which
brought me here, and beg you to tell me how
I am to get invitations printed, and my house
turned topsy-turvy, and a brilliant ball successfully
carried through — all within the space
of six days ? "

Tom is your man," said my grandmother,
pointing to me. " He is not good for much
in the world ; but I will say for him that when
there Is any occasion for rushing about, and
planning, and arranging, he Is in his element.
He prides himself upon what he calls his 'tact,'
which is another word for setting folks by the
ears and then forcing them into making it up
again. He will do the business for you."

Fortified by these credentials, I threw myself
energetically into the task before me.

CHAPTER XL

BEACHBOROUGH PERPLEXED.

Here is a cutting from the Lynshire County
C/irom'cle, htsinng d^tQ loth December, 187 — ,
which I find among the various documents
which have assisted me in piecing together the
present narrative : —

'* Fashionable Ball at Beachborough. —
On Wednesday last a gathering at once select
and numerous assembled under the hospitable
roof of Vincent Gervis, of Southlands, Esq.,
where nothing had been neglected that liberal
expenditure, refined taste, and the unwearied
exertions of a genial host could do towards insuring
the success of what we may perhaps
term, without exaggeration, the most sumptuous
ball that has taken place in Beachborough or
its vicinity for many years past. Among the
bevy of noble and distinguished guests who
graced the gay scene with their presence we

noticed : Viscount Courtney, G.C.B., and Viscountess
Courtney, the Earl and Countess of
Lynchester, Sir Frederick Croft, Lady and Miss
Croft, Mr. and Lady Maria Pilkington, Mr.
and Mrs. Knowles, of Stone Hall, Mr. J. G.
Pettigrew, M.P., Rear Admiral, Mrs., and the
Misses Bagshawe, Major-general Blair, Cab.,
and Mrs. Blair, Colonel Heaviside and Officers
12 1st Light Infantry, Mr. Flemyng, Mr. T.
Knowles, &c.

** Words would fail to do justice to the excellence
of the arrangements and the careful
attention to inimUicB which will cause this truly
aristocratic fete to be long remembered in the
neighbourhood. Suffice it to say that the
magnificent supper was furnished entirely by
the well-known Messrs. Provender and Son, of
High Street, Beachborough, while the decorations,
which were of an unusually chaste and
elegant character, had been committed to the
competent hands of Messrs. Curtain, the celebrated
firm of local upholsterers. The string
band of the 121st Light Infantry was in attendance,
and discoursed sweet music, to the entire
satisfaction of the dancers, up to an advanced
hour on Thursday morning. Dancing was kept
up with unflagging spirit from first to last ; and
had not the season been mid-winter, the revellers,

on tearing themselves reluctantly away
from the ball-room, would have found their
carriages awaiting them in the broad light of
day.

Southlands, the ancestral seat of the Gervis
family, which, as many of our readers are aware,
received no guests during the lifetime of the
late owner, is, we regret to hear, likely to be
once more shut up for a lengthened period, as
Mr. Gervis proposes to leave home very shortly,
and we understand that no date is fixed for his
return."

No one will ever know what obstacles had to
be surmounted in order to render Mr. Gervis's
ball a success, except those upon whom devolved
the task of sending out invitations without the
help of a visiting list, of drilling recalcitrant
servants, spurring on lazy tradesmen, and getting
the work of three weeks accomplished in six
days. There were social as well as material
difficulties ; for upon the first blush of the thing,
Beachborough was inclined to cavil at the shortness
of the invitation, and was by no means
clear that it could be accepted consistently with
self-respect ; and again, personal interviews had
to be sought with Lord Courtney and other
magnates, whose presence was indispensable,
but who would fain have been excused drives

of fifteen and eighteen miles on a winter's night.
Howbeit, disinterestedness ultimately reaped its
reward in a complete triumph. The great
people consented to come ; the smaller ones on
hearing of this, unhesitatingly followed their
lead ; and if my memory does not deceive me,
Mrs. Pender was the only person Who sent in a
refusal.

Doubtless curiosity and a partial knowledge
of the peculiar circumstances under which this
entertainment had been so hastily decided upon
added much zest to the enjoyment of the company.
It was amusing to observe how the eyes
of each fresh arrival, after taking stock of the
multitude of wax candles, and the profusion of
floral decorations in the ball-room, roved
anxiously hither and thither till they rested upon
the silvery locks of Mr. Flemyng, or the jovial
countenance of Freddy Croft, and to note the
uplifting of eyebrows, and the furtive nudging
of elbows that invariably followed. Lynshire
was mystified. Only a few weeks before, the
county had been thrown into a ferment by the
news that the only son of the present entertainer
had fled from his father's roof in company
with the daughter of a highly-respected neighbour
; yet here were the afflicted parents conversing
amicably, and contemplating the scene

with benevolent smiles. Only a few days before,
it had been currently reported that a love-match
between the daughter of the house and a popular
young baronet had been untimely nipped in the
bud ; yet yonder the two luckless lovers might
be seen waltzing together, apparently in the
best of spirits, no man forbidding them. What,
in the name of goodness, did it all mean ?

No answer to the general inquiry was to be
gleaned from the demeanour of Mr. Gervis,
whose features expressed nothing but the most
placid satisfaction and urbane welcome of his
guests. Mr. Gervis, indeed, was pleased to
exhibit himself in an entirely new aspect, and
may be said to have achieved the principal
success of an evening full of successes. His
habitual languor of speech and gait had been
laid aside for the nonce, and was replaced by a
cheerful, unassuming cordiality and an evident
desire to please, which surprised and charmed
all with whom he was brought in contact. He
spoke to everybody, and had somehow discovered
exactly the right thing to say to each ;
he managed to be everywhere, without appearing
to exert himself; he found partners for
the plain girls and comfortable seats for the
matrons, and to high and low alike he contrived
to convey the impression that he considered

their presence as a favour conferred upon him.
Even those who disliked him most were fain
to admit that they had never seen finer
manners ; and In our parts some of us, who
are a Httle behind the age, flatter ourselves
that we know what fine manners are. Old
Mr. Pettlgrew, watching the Increasing favour
with which the stranger was regarded, drew a
little' uneasy and fidgety at last, and whispered
to a confidential friend that he hoped In Heaven
he was not going to be put to the worry and
expense of a contested election at his time of
life.

But if Mr. Gervis's behaviour seemed to cast
some doubts upon the accuracy of recent
rumours, still more so did that of Genevieve,
whose mien It was Impossible to reconcile with
the despair of a love-lorn maiden. Hitherto
Genevieve had found but few admirers In
Lynshire, where blue eyes, rosy cheeks, and
bouches en cceicr are mostly held to be the
constituent parts of female loveliness ; a few
persons only had conceded her to be picturesque
and interesting-looking. But that night
more than one onlooker was heard to affirm
roundly that she was nothing less than beautiful.
In truth there is no beautified like happiness
; and if it were not happiness that had

brought such a strange soft light into those
brown eyes and that was expressing itself in
every movement of the slim girlish figure —
why, appearances must be very deceptive. As
for Freddy, nobody had ever seen him looking
anything but happy for more than five minutes
together ; so that his radiant face could not
be taken to prove much, except indeed in a
negative sense, as evidencing the improbability
of anything having occurred to disturb his
normal state of contentment with himself and
the world at large. Taking one thing with
another, the inference drawn on all sides was
that there had been some mistake, and that,
so far from Sir Frederick's suit having been
rejected by Mr. Gervis (which, when you came
to think of it, was an unlikely story, after all),
this ball had been given as a means of publicly
announcing the engagement.

Those who reasoned thus had probably not
noticed that one actor who had taken a prominent
part in the little domestic drama under
consideration was nowhere to be seen. On a
sofa in a small and dimly-lighted room, removed
from the sights and sounds of revelry
in which her shaken nerves unfitted her to take
any part, sat Lady Croft, and made her moan.

'' I am the most unlucky woman in the whole

world ; no one ever was tried as I am ! I am
quite accustomed to it — I am sure I don't
expect much — I am prepared for disappointment
In a hundred forms — but that such a
thing as this should happen I cotdd not anticipate.
Who could ? After all the trouble I
have taken, after all the encouragement I have
had, after seeing everything go so smoothly
from beofinninof to end, to be checkmated at
the last moment by that man, who in reality
cares no more for his daughter's happiness than
he does for mine ! If one could believe in
anyone's being so wicked, I should say that
his sole aim in life was to make others miserable.
The only excuse he could give was that
his daughter was very young, and that he had
learnt by experience that people ought to
hesitate a long time before marrying. Of
course one knows that he himself doesn't get
on with his own wife ; but then, as I told him,
that is probably entirely his own fault. ' Not a
doubt of it,' he answered, as coolly as possible ;
'and I should not be surprised if your son
failed to get on with Diis wife — also entirely
through his own fault'"

'' How Impertinent of him ! " said Lady
Courtney, who, for the time being, was the
sorrowing mother's confidant.

VOL. 11. S

'* Impertinent Is not the word ! But that
I could forgive ; only he is much worse than
impertinent sometimes. You have no conception
of how — how horrid that man can make
himself. Fancy his telling me in so many
words that my selfishness shocked him ! Of
all things in the world to accuse me of selfishness
! Not that it matters much what he says
or thinks ; for I shall never speak to him again
after this, if I can avoid it. Freddy declares
that he is willing to wait two years, or any
number of years ; but that is absurd. I must
begin at once to look out for some one else for
him ; but I know I shall nowhere find such
a dear, good girl as Genevieve. The change
she had brought about in my poor boy already
was more than wonderful. For the last few
weeks he has gone to church regularly once
on Sundays, and repeated the responses too ;
for I heard him. And he has taken to reading;
a good deal, and he smokes much less, and

altogether But there is an end of it all

now." And Lady Croft is compelled to have
recourse to her pocket-handkerchief.

Oh, but you must not despair," said Lady
Courtney, who was a good-natured woman,
and did not share her husband's antipathy to
Freddy. 'rafter all, there are some attachments

which survive a separation of two years.
I am sure I have heard of many instances
in which long engagements have ended happily ;
and besides "

'' Ah ! not in our family," Interrupted Lady
Croft through her tears. "No Croft ever yet
was constant. It Is the hereditary taint — oh
dear, w/iy are people born with hereditary
taints ! — and they can't help themselves."

'' I was going to say that, if the worst came
to the worst, Miss Gervis Is not absolutely
unique. I don't know her myself; but I daresay
she is a very charming girl. Still, there
are many thousands of other women in England,
you know."

*' That is just it ! There are thousands of
others ; and some of them are vulgar, and some
are vicious, and some have red hair, and some
are married already. It is a great deal too
much to hope for that such an occasion as this
should come again. No; I know what will
happen. He will run away with somebody
else's wife, or he will marry some dreadful
creature whom I could not speak to, or else
he will play fast and loose with half a dozen
girls, and never marry at all. As for his living-through
two long years without an affair of
some kind, there is not a chance of that. He

may think now that he will ; but I know
better ; and so does that detestable old man."

In this strain Lady Croft went on, refusing
to be comforted, and perhaps rather trying the
patience of her courteous listener.

But the warnings of this mature Cassandra
were poured forth, as has been said, out of
ear-shot of the ball-room ; and as there was no
Miss Pennefather at hand to convey them
thither, the impression gained ground that Mr.
Gervls's hospitality was intended to celebrate
the conclusion of a betrothal.

Admiral Bagshawe, for one, was strongly
of this opinion. The Admiral was in high
good humour, for he liked, as he said, to see
things properly done, and dash him if he had
ever tasted better champagne in his life than
was to be had in the supper room. Now it
is well known that judging of champagne is
mere guess-work until a considerable quantity
of It has been swallowed ; and the Admiral
had conscientiously subjected Mr. Gervls's wine
to "this crucial test. Towards the end of the
evening, therefore, he was ready for anything ;
and as courage is a quality in which he has
never been deficient, his friends were hardly
astonished when he proclaimed his Intention
of beating about the bush no longer, and of

going straight to head-quarters for information.
The eyes of the Httle coterie to which he had
been holding forth were starting out of their
heads and their ears were pricked up, as their
emissary shouldered his way towards the master
of the house, and called out in a loud hearty
voice —

"Well, Gervis, I hear we're to congratulate
you, eh ? "

]mr. Gervis cocked his head on one side,
smiled amiably, and said, '' Indeed ?"

So they tell me. / don't know anything
about it; but I'm an old stager, and I can see
as far through a brick wall as my neighbours."
Here the Admiral's right thumb points backwards
over his shoulder to the corner where
Freddy and Genevieve are seated, side by side,
and his right eye executes a slow and solemn
wink. " People say it's a case," quoth he.

Do they really ? But what will not people
say ! You have been misinformed, my dear
Admiral Bagshawe ; if a ' case ' means an engagement,
there is not a word of truth in what
you have heard."

'the deuce there isn't!" ejaculates the
Admiral, a trifle discomfited. " Beg pardon,
I'm sure. Have I your authority, then, to
contradict these reports ? "

*'By all means do so, if you think it worth
while. Delighted to have had the opportunity
of setting you right. Is there any other matter
connected with myself or my family upon which
I can enlighten you ? "

'eh? No; I don't know that there is,"
answers the Admiral, staring.

'' If you should think of anything else later,
pray apply to me without hesitation. Nothing
is more flattering than these proofs of the ever-watchful
interest which our kind friends and
neighbours take in us."

And with that Mr. Gervis moves away,
leaving the Admiral to return to his consort
and announce that, '' The old woman was right,
by George ! There's no engagement."

I was sure of it," cried Mrs. Bagshawe
triumphantly. '' And I must say that I think
it is rather bad taste on Sir Frederick's part to
show himself here after having been treated in
such a way."

'' I have my own ideas about that," puts in
Major Currie, who is standing beside the lady's
chair. " I am not so sure that it is young
Croft who has been badly treated. Mind you,
this is only conjecture ; but I have seen a good
deal of him, and a precious slippery customer
he is ! It would not surprise me to hear that

he had never proposed at all, and didn't mean
to propose. When I came here this evening,
and saw all the money that was being spent by
a man who says that he's going clean out of
the neighbourhood in a day or two, I couldn't
help being reminded of my old campaigning
days in India. When we found it necessary
to fall back — as the best of soldiers sometimes
have to do, Mrs. Bagshawe — what used our
plan to be ? Why, we brought the artillery
into play, and kicked up the devil's own dust
and smoke, and slipped off under cover of it."

Oh, Major Currie, what a dreadful expression
! Do you really think then "

But perhaps the reader has had enough of
these provincial gaffers and gammers, and may
not care for any further report of their tittletattle.
They were only a set of dull-witted,
vulgar people, dwelling in a small circle and
busying themselves with small matters, in
default of better employment. Perhaps they
ought rather to be pitied than blamed in that
their lives had to be spent in a little country
town, instead of (for instance) in London, where
the intellectual horizon is so much wider, where
petty cliques have no place, and where such
things as prying and backbiting and scandal
are so exceedingly rare. I don't know that

their gossip did any great harm to anybody.
Certainly it was powerless to disturb either
Freddy or Genevieve, who looked, and indeed
were, as happy as though no shadow of a two
years' separation was hanging over them.

The semi-betrothed couple had, in fact,,
recovered with marvellous rapidity from the
first shock of that blow which had reduced
Lady Croft to despair. One of them, upon
whose spirits a vague dread of the future had
preyed more than she was herself aware of,
acknowledged in her heart that two years of
suspense and weariness was not too heavy a
price to pay for a lifetime of contentment ;
while the other was of so sanguine a temperament
that he could not believe in that long
period of probation at all.

I am like a prisoner who has just been
sentenced to fifteen years' penal servitude,"
said he. " I am removed from the dock looking
regularly broken-hearted, don't you know;
but all the time I am thinking to myself that
if I don't get out on a ticket-of-leave before my
sentence has half expired, it's a pity. All I
have got to do is to behave myself, so as to get
a good character from the governor of the gaol
Mr. Gervis, I mean — and to humbug the
chaplain — Miss Potts may represent the chaplain

— and then it will soon be found out that
I am not such a ruffian as I look, after all.
Don't you see ? "

This graceful parallel was drawn in the
seclusion of the conservatory, whither Freddy
and his partner had retired at the end of the
last waltz on the programme. Dancing was
still going on, as echoes of distant music told
them ; but the guests were leaving fast, and
when our lovers had quitted the ball-room,
it had been with the consciousness that the
time for saying last words had come, and that
it might be many months before they would be
alone together again.

o o

'the chaplain is gained already," said
Genevieve, smiling ; '' but she has very little
to say to it, I am afraid ; and as for the
gaoler "

The aposiopesis was expressive. But Freddy
confidently gave it as his opinion that the
gaoler would be all right. ''He won't stick
out for the whole term when he sees that we're
In earnest. He'll make It a year, I expect.
Anyhow, it isn't as if we were going to say
good-bye now, and not meet again till the year
after next, you know. And of course we shall
Avrite to each other constantly."

Genevieve shook her head. "We must not

do that. Don't you remember, he said there
was to be no correspondence ? And you
agreed."

'' Did I ? If I did, it was because I misunderstood
him. I never intended to consent
to do without letters — oh, I could not possibly
live, unless I heard from you sometimes. Of
course I shall write at once ; and you will
answer me, won't you ? "

Genevieve sighed. '' It would not be any
use if you did write to me," she said. " I should
not be allowed to have your letter. You know,
I shall be living with Varna all the time, and
she would be very angry if she found that we
were corresponding. And besides, I should
not like her to see what you wrote."

Do you mean to say that she would open
your letters ? " exclaimed Freddy, aghast.

Oh, yes. In England, I know, that is not
done ; but abroad it is different. Varna
would think she had a perfect right to read
any letters addressed to me, and she would
be horrified at the idea of my hearing from
any young man. She would say it was not
C071V enable ; and I am not sure that she would
not be right."

'well then, I must live in Paris as much as
I can, that's all."

I am afraid that would not do either.
They would never let me see you alone ; and
don't you think it would seem a little like a
breach of faith if you were to follow me ? I
mean, if we were to meet just as usual, it would
be almost the same thing as if we were
engaged."

'' So we are engaged."

No ; — only in our hearts. He said
expressly that there was no engagement.
Freddy "

It was the first time that Genevieve had
overcome her timidity to the extent of addressing
her lover by his Christian name, and never
before had that rather undignified diminutive
sounded so sweetly in his ears.

My own ! " he whispered.

*' Would you mind very much if we did not
meet at all till the two years were over ? "

*' Mind .^ Good Lord ! I should mind it
more than anything that I can imagine.
Wouldn't you ? "

"Yes — in a way. But I could bear it, if
I thought it was best; and I do think so.
We shall be able to hear of each other in many
ways — through Nina, and other people ; and I
thought perhaps your mother would let me
write to her sometimes. Only I am sure it

would be wiser for us not to meet, unless it
were really quite by accident. I think they
would be much more likely to give in if they
saw that being utterly separated made no
difference in us. They would believe then that
we really cared for one another."

I suppose that is what Mr. Gervis doubts ? "^

Genevieve hesitated for a moment. " I
suppose so," she said at length, with that
constrained intonation which the mention of
her fathers name always brought into her
voice. " But I do not know what it is that
he intends or wishes."

Queer old chap," remarked Freddy, reflectively
; ''I can't quite make out what he is
driving at, I confess."

''He does not choose that any one should
make him out. It is his way to obtain what he
wants by roundabout means, even when it
would be easier and safer to act openly. I
am sure he might have prevented Claud's
marriage if he had chosen to speak plainly
months ago ; and he would have given a great
deal to prevent it, I believe, for he is really
fond of Claud. Me he has never liked nor
pretended to like ; so I should have thought
he would have been thankful for the opportunity
of getting me off his hands. He must

have some plan or other, I suppose ; but it does
not much signify what it is, as it is certain to
fail, does it ? "

*' Not a bit. But, Genevieve, if we are to be
all this time without ever seeing one another or
exchanging a word, and if you meet lots of
fellows in Paris — as of course you will do — who
are far and away more worthy of being your
husband than I can ever be, won't you — don't
you think you might "

*' Fall in love with one of them ? No ; there
is not much fear of that," answered Genevieve,
with a little soft laugh. She hardly thought
the suggestion worthy of a serious reply.

But when Freddy, who was really alarmed
at the prophetic picture which his fancy had
conjured up, went on to expatiate upon his own
many deficiencies and upon the superior mental
and physical attractions of those imaginary
suitors, imploring her, almost with tears, not
to forget him when he should be far away, she
grew troubled, and, regardless of what Miss
Potts would have called '' proper maidenly
reserve," caught his hand in both of hers with
a quick movement of pain.

'' Don't speak like that ! " she cried ; " you
don't know how you hurt me. Oh, have you
not understood ? If I thought you had not,

and that you doubted me, I don't know how
I could bear to leave you like this. It is not
possible to tell you how I feel, and naturally
you cannot know. But just think what you
are to me. No one ever loved me but you.
There is no one like you — no one so good and
kind and thoughtful. You are the whole world
to me, and you always will be. You believe
me, don't you ? "

The young fellow was a good deal moved.
What have I done to deserve such love ? " he
was thinking to himself. '' Yes," he said aloud ;
I believe you." Then, after a long pause,
'' And you will not doubt me either } "

Oh no ; I never could."

'^ Because," said Freddy, getting up and
moving about uneasily, '' I wanted to tell you —
it is an awful thing to have to say, but I must
say it — that you would have a right to doubt.
My life has not been like yours. I wish to
Heaven it had been ; but it is too late to think
of that now. I have been in love, or at least
fancied myself in love, with ever so many
people. There was that wretched Miss Lambert,
whom you saw, and there were others
before her. Shall I tell you about them all ? "

No. I don't want to hear. How could
you help what happened before we met ? I

love you ; I trust you ; I am not afraid of your
desertion me now. But even if it were so —
even if you did not love me any longer, and
cared for somebody else, it would make no
difference. To the end of my life my heart will
belong to you, and to no one but you."

Her father, if he had heard her, might have
rejoined, 'how can you possibly tell?"
Freddy neither said nor thought this ; but it
crossed his mind that it would be a happy
thing for him if he could feel as absolutely sure
of himself as she did of them both. For it
is not permitted even to the most thoughtless
of mortals to have been fickle with impunity ;
and to talk of letting the dead past bury its
dead is only a way of speaking, and perhaps
not a very wise way of speaking either.

Howbeit, Freddy felt in his inmost heart
that his love for Genevieve was something
very different from those bygone philanderings,
and that, that being so, there was no real
occasion for him to distrust himself He resumed
his seat, and began telling her how,
since he had known her, life had acquired a
new meaning for him, how he had grown
dissatisfied with his old acceptance of the world
as a big playground, and how, for her sake, he
was trying, and would try, to make something

better out of his life than he had hitherto cared
to attempt.

'' I'm awfully stupid, you know," he had the
modesty to admit. " Book-learning isn't in my
line, and it wouldn't be much good my going in
for that sort of thing ; but I have a certain
amount of money, and there's the property to
look after, and all that. I don't see why I
shouldn't be of some use in my own small way.
Anyhow, I don't mean to let things slide anymore."


Genevieve did not quarrel with this unambitious
programme. It was sweet to her to
think that the man whom she loved was made
better by her love — so sweet that she listened
to him without noticing how time was going
on, and was much surprised when Miss Potts
came in, with a rather grave face, to say that
everybody had gone away, and that the servants
were putting out the lights.

CHAPTER XII.

THE RUE d' AMSTERDAM AND THE BOULEVARD
MALESHERBES.

*' Do you think there were ever before two
people as happy as we are ? "

The speaker was one of the slowly-moving
stream of loiterers which flows up and down
the Boulevard des Italiens every night of the
year, winter and summer alike. In the clear,
frosty atmosphere, in the brilliant light that
shone from the street-lamps and the glittering
shop-windows, he could distinguish every detail
of the figure at his side — the fur-trimmed jacket
which fitted her so perfectly, the tiny, exquisitely
shaped boots, which Paris alone could
have produced, the gloved hand resting upon
his arm, the charming upturned face, which
met his eyes with a merry smile. Perhaps he
read the answer to his question there, for he
went on, without waiting for any articulate
response —

VOL. II. T

It Is a realized ideal — at least it is something
better than that, for I have got all that
I ever dreamt of wishing for, and more besides.
There is no place left for castle building. If
the reign of the fairies were to begin again, and
my own especial fairy-godmother were to
appear from round the corner of the rue 
there all of a sudden, and beg me to
command her services, I protest I should have
to make the lady a polite bow, and send her
about her business. I really don't know what
I could find to ask her for."

A little more money perhaps ? "

*' Ah, well, a little more money might be a
comfortable thing, certainly ; and yet I don't
know that I should thank her for depriving me
of the pleasure of earning it. I am sure I
should not, if it were to make any alteration
in our way of living. I am absolutely contented
; no change could be a change for the
better to me. And to think that there are
wiseacres going about the world proclaiming
that happiness consists only in anticipation and
retrospect ! "

People who say such foolish things can
never have known the meaning of freedom and
a fourth-floor in Paris. Oh, what good times,
we have had ! — what fun it has all been ! "

The fun of it had not yet begun to pall upon
Mrs. Claud Gervis. After three months of
married life, she could enjoy as keenly as she
had done on the first day of her arrival In Paris
the mitigated Bohemians for which the
French capital offers so many facilities. She
had an almost childish delight In the novelty of
her lot ; In the newly-acquired right to go
where she pleased when she pleased ; In the
theatres to which economically disposed persons
might betake themselves on foot, and where
evening toilettes were dispensed with ; In those
little dinners at some restaurant In the Palais
Royal or on the boulevards which relieved one
of the vulgar cares of housekeeping ; In every
incident of the bright winter days. For the
time being, at all events, these things satisfied
her soul. Whether she was prepared to go
quite the length that her husband did, and to
declare that any conceivable change must be
unwelcome to her, may be doubted ; but It Is
certain that her happiness was not, at this time,
any less complete than his.

Nor must it be supposed that her joy In life
rested solely upon such frivolous bases as those
indicated above. There are few women upon
whom marriage does not produce at least a
temporary change and softening of character;

and Nina, somewhat to her own surprise, discovered
that a taste for domesticity was beginning
to take root in her heart. She had fallen
in love with Claud because of his handsome
face, because of his devotedness, because he
was so unlike the general run of young Englishmen
— for half a dozen more or less inconclusive
reasons : she had viewed him from
an imaginary level rather above than beneath
his own, perceiving her advantages over him
in the matters of worldly knowledge and experience.
But now she saw him with other
eyes; and, whether by reason of closer companionship
with him, or of the law of Nature
which ordains that the woman shall reverence
the man, if by any means she can contrive todo
so, Mrs. Claud Gervis's attitude towards her
husband was approaching every day more
nearly to that enjoined by the apostles and
approved by the Church. She began to be
ambitious that he should make a name for himself
as an author ; she watched him with furtive
admiration as he sat scribbling at his writing-table
; and when a famous review accepted an
article from his pen she was so gratified by this
honour that the circumstance of its bringing no
remuneration with it seemed to her hardly
worthy of notice. Sometimes she used to

think that she could ask nothing better than
to live for ever this secluded, independent life,
seeking no longer for admiration or attention
on her own score, and content to shine in the
lustre of Claud s reflected glory.

This, however, was hardly more than one
of those pretty fancies which will come to idle
people dreaming beside a wood fire in the
twilight, but which common sense smiles at
when daylight comes round again. Nina knew
quite well that in due process of time she would
have to resume her place in society, to effect
a reconciliation between her husband and the
head of the family, and to enter upon the
fruition of that comfortable income which would
doubtless be offered to the young couple, and
which would free the pursuit of literature from
any debasing taint of a sordid nature. With
her own father she had already patched up
a peace. Mr. Flemyng, who was too profound
a philosopher to cry over spilt milk, and who
may also have had a suspicion that his neighbour
at Southlands would not prove relentless
for ever, had written a long and discursive
letter, the purport of which was that, though
unable to assist the young people pecuniarily,
and both unable and 7inwilli7ig to pay outstanding
bills (underlined), he was prepared to offer

them the solace of his blessing — or whatever
one of his enlightened school of thought may-have
considered equivalent thereto. Mr.
Gervis had not shown an equal readiness to
adapt himself to circumstances, several dutiful
missives having failed to elicit anything in the
shape of an answer from him ; but this, as
Claud said, did not prove much — the governor
never answered letters — and Nina had little
fear but that she should be able to subjugate
him when the proper time should come. She
was in no great hurry : her chief wish was that
this protracted honeymoon might last as long
as it could be made to do — pleasure first, business
afterwards. At the bottom of her heart
she believed herself to be irresistible ; and
Claud was quite of the same mind.

And it must be admitted that she was not
without warrant in rating her powers of fascination
highly. Her beauty was of that order
which no Gallic heart can withstand. Since
her wedding-day, her career had been one
uninterrupted triumph; and from M. FHerisson
to the railway-guard who had hastened to place
a coupe at the service of monsieur and madame
from the concierge in the rue d' Amsterdam,
where the newly-married pair had taken up
their abode, to the Princess Ouranoff, she had

made a facile conquest of all with whom she
had been brought into proximity.

Varna, always prone to be attracted by
new faces, and especially by pretty ones, had
conceived for Mrs. Claud one of those ardent
attachments which, with her, were perpetually
springing into being, and vanishing again, like
the easily kindled fireworks which make such
a prodigious blaze and sputter for a minute
or so, and are gone, leaving nothing but darkness
and a gaunt skeleton frame behind them.
Her exultation over the act of mutiny which
had upset Mr. Gervis's calculations may not
improbably have prepossessed her in favour of
her new step-daughter; Nina's easy manners
and faultless costume did the rest ; and the
fickle Princess's latest bosom friend was thrown
over without compunction in order that the
new-comer might be taught to know her Paris
and be taken to the shops where she ought to
buy her clothes. It was Varna who pointed
out how far better, more amusing and more
economical it would be to dine at a quiet
restaurant, where one could get an excellent
dinner for five francs a head, than to engage
an extravagant cook, who would in all probability
lie and thieve, and would certainly
impost the air with the noisome fumes of her

gigots-a-r ail. The services of one bonne, said
she, ought to suffice amply for the wants of
two people who would require nothing, except
tea and coffee, to be prepared upon the
premises. If she had had her way, she would
have planted the little household at the top
of a brand-new mansion in the Boulevard
Hassan ; for a good quarter, she averred,
was everything, and it was permissible to save
money in any direction rather than in that of
house rent ; but upon this point Claud was
obdurate. He declared that he could not afford
to pay a high rent and did not care a straw for
being fashionable, and to avoid further discussion,
went out forthwith, and signed an agreement
which put him into possession of a sunny little
set of rooms au quatrihne in the rue amsterdam,
which he and Nina had inspected a few
days before, and had considered eligible.

The Princess visited her protdgds as soon
as they were installed in this modest domicile,
and, despite its situation, was pleased to pronounce
not unfavourably upon it. The rooms
seemed airy and bright, she said, darting hither
and thither, and peeping through every doorway
; the furniture, though old, was not in such
bad taste ; with the addition of a few bibelots^.
the place might be made quite habitable.

The bibelots in question turned out to be of a
somewhat substantial kind, including, indeed,
such articles as sofas, arm-chairs, carpets, and
curtains. Returning home, one evening, after
a long interview with the editor of the review
above-mentioned, Claud found them already in
his small salon, where they had been arranged
with commendable rapidity during his absence.
His wife and the Princess were seated luxuriously,
with their toes on the fender, sipping
that straw-coloured tea which the Russians
affect, and into which they customarily drop a
slice of lemon in lieu of milk. They seemed
much diverted at the air of stupefaction with
which he stopped short on the threshold, and
at the lugubrious voice in which he inquired
how all this was to be paid for.

"" You ridiculous boy ! " cried the Princess ;
Who thinks of paying '^ We ordered these
little necessaries from my own upholsterer, a
perfectly well-bred man, who would think himself
insulted if you talked of payment within the
next two or three years."

Claud looked doubtful. '' I don't want to
have any bills," he said. '' I should like to pay
ready money for everything that I buy."

At this innocent avowal both ladies laughed
With charming heartiness. Ready money

Matrimony.

indeed ! — why, the thing was not only absurd,
but literally impossible. How could a man pay
his tailor ready money, for instance? How
was a woman to pay her dressmaker, when the
dressmaker herself could not tell what the cost
of executing an order would be until it was
carried out ? Did he mean to suggest that his
wife should purchase her gowns at a ready-made
establishment ?

Claud protested that he was not guilty of any
such enormity. He would fain avoid running
into debt ; that was all.

Everybody is in debt," said the Princess
cheerfully. " Look at me : I owe for everything
I possess — for my carriage, my horses, my
bonnets, my gloves — everything ! And I assure
you that I do not feel myself any the worse."

Claud did not believe her. As a general
rule, it was safe to treat Varna's statements
as apocryphal, and those who knew her best
might be excused for saying of her, as
Talleyrand said of Metternich, " qu'elle mental
toujours et ne trompait jamais." But in this
instance, as it happened, she was telling the
simple truth. Lavish, generous in a certain
semi-barbarous fashion, scattering her money
broadcast, without too much regard to the
persons who might chance to pick it up, she

had long passed in Paris for a woman of great
wealth. It was commonly reported that she
had silver mines — in the Ural mountains — in
Siberia — somewhere beyond civilization's ken — ■
whence a steady stream flowed ever westward
to replenish her purse. Such was the impression
which prevailed regarding the Princess
among people of her own class ; inquiries made
in other sections of society might have revealed
the existence of a somewhat different notion.
Her tradesmen, for instance, knew to their cost
that it was very seldom convenient to her to
pay ; and if they continued to serve her, and
to content themselves with occasional small
instalments of the money owing to them, it
was probably because they had ascertained
that she had a rich husband in the background,
to whom, as a last resource, appeal might be
made. Her bankers, again, though they could
have shown that the amounts paid in annually
to the lady's credit were more than sufficient to
justify the scale upon which her establishment
was kept up, could also have testified that her
account was pretty generally overdrawn.
What became of those handsome balances
which, making due allowance for depredations,
carelessness and extravagance, should have remained
to the Princess after the discharge of

what may be called her legitimate expenses ?
A few — a very few only — of her associates
might have answered the question by a conjecture.
It was well known among the members
of a certain set that the Princess was a passionate
gambler ; but not many could have
told what were the stakes for which she and
a limited number of her friends of both sexes
were wont to play in that pretty little card-room
in the Boulevard Malesherbes, where
lights were often kept burning until after sunrise.
Few and far between were the nights
on which this snug apartment was not illuminated.
The Princess would hasten thither, on
her return from the opera or from a ball, either
accompanied or closely followed by sundry
choice spirits who shared her tastes ; and
whether she won or lost at the game, it is
certain that she never wearied of it.

Genevieve, in earlier years, used to feel a
child's curiosity as to what took place in that
Bluebeard's chamber ; Miss Potts used sometimes
to venture upon a respectful remonstrance
against the iniquities of which it was the surmised
scene ; neither of them was ever permitted to
cross its threshold. And it should be set
down to the credit of the feather-brained lite
Princess that, whatever may have been her

own vices, she kept them religiously concealed
from her step-daughter, and held up before the
eyes of the latter a standard of conduct as
unexceptionable as her lights enabled her to
frame. It was with unfeigned joy that she
welcomed Genevieve back to Paris ; with even
greater delight did she reach the conviction that
her charge had returned to her free. For
Genevieve was reserved, and did not care to
reveal the secrets of her heart to Varna,
merely pledging her word that she was not
engaged to the young English baronet about
whom she was asked so many questions.
Thus reassured, Varna prepared to extend
the right hand of fellowship to Miss Potts, by
whom it is needless to say that it was eagerly
grasped. Miss Potts was forgiven, embraced,
and — cross-examined. Then — for unfortunately
the witness was one of the worst hands at
keeping her own counsel that ever lived — the
true state of affairs was elucidated, and a
stormy scene followed. Many recriminations
had to be undergone, and not a few tears shed,
before Miss Potts could be once more pardoned
and the Princess brought to see that no serious
mischief had been done as yet.

Two years — it is a long time ! The essential
thing is that they should be prevented

from holding any sort of communication together
for the present ; and I will charge
myself with that," said the little woman, nodding
her head resolutely. " For the rest, at
her age one forms fancies and forgets them
again without much difficulty. This Englishman
has been the first who has made love to
her — there you have the explanation of it all.
From what you tell me. Potts, there is nothing
about him that can leave a lasting impression
upon her. What we must seek for is a man
whose disposition corresponds in some degree
to her own. There is a weak place, or a
strong place— I don't know which you would
call it — In every one's character, and when once
one has found it, one knows where to aim. It
is evident that we must make a plunge into the
world of amateur musicians."

She began to run over the list of her
acquaintance sotto voce,

D'Arblay — perfectly comme-il-fatU, a little
advanced in years perhaps. De Fancy — a
divine voice, but no fortune. Jaworisky — what
a ridiculous spectacle is a man who plays the
flute ! — It Is enough to kill you with laughing.
A good partly however. Bolsonnet — de
Castella "

'don't you think," broke in Miss Potts

feebly, " that our dear child's happiness should
be the chief object ? "

The Princess stamped her little foot Impatiently.
'' Potts, you are of a stupidity beyond
bearing ! Of what then do you suppose that I
am thinking ? Do I plot and plan, like Mm f
Have I anything to gain by marrying Genevieve,
and sending her away from me ? And
If I wish to see her happily established, and at
the same time to keep her within reach. Is that
any great crime ? Listen — ^I have nothing left
in the world to care for but her. Rather than
make her miserable, I would surrender her to
this Englishman tomorrow ; but If I can discover
a good husband and a happy home for
her In Paris, where I can be near her and see
her sometimes, I mean to do it. And In
saying that, I say no more than any mother
would do."

There Is no reason to doubt the speakers
honesty. Hers was one of those natures which
can fling aside a friend or a lover easily enough,
but which cannot endure to be In their turn
deserted. She would give herself infinite pains
to reconquer the affection of persons for whom
she did not in the least care, If only she suspected
that her charms were beginning to pall
upon them ; and that Genevieve could contemplate

with equanimity the prospect of an
establishment so far away as the other side of
the channel had struck her as a truly shocking
thing. Add to this that it was quite true that
she was alone In the world, that she did in all
sincerity love Genevieve as warmly as she was
capable of loving, and that she was well aware
that of all her so-called dear friends there was
but this one who might be counted upon to
stand by her in adversity and prosperity
alike.

'* It is a refuge against the bad time coming
that I wish to prepare for myself," she admitted
candidly to Genevieve one evening ; and when
asked to what bad time she alluded, answered
oracularly that It was Impossible to read the
future, and that disaster was never very faraway
from any one. " Supposing some great
misfortune were to happen to me — supposing
I were to find myself forsaken on every side,
you would not forbid me your house, would
you ? You would not shut your door In my
face?"

You know I never would, Varlnka. What
makes you say such things ? If ever I have a
house of my own, It shall be your home as long
and as often as you like to make it so ; and
surely you might know me better than to think

that I should turn against you at a time when
you were in trouble."

Ah, bah ! " returned the Princess, with a
short laugh ; " a house implies a husband ; and
husbands are not too fond of providing their
wives' relations with homes. I am not exacting
to such an unreasonable extent : all I ask is to
be allowed to see you from time to time — not
to be left quite alone. Promise me that, whatever
happens, you will never consent to let me
pass entirely out of your life."

The girl promised, wonderingly. She was
unable to see any specific reason for so singular
a demand ; but she knew, or believed she knew,
that her father would gladly seize any opportunity
that might offer to shake off even the
slender tie that still bound him to his wife, and
she presumed that it must be some such
eventuality as this that Varna was contemplating.
As regarded herself, she would fain
have added a hint that the only house over
which she could ever exercise sway as a wife
would be Croft Manor ; that the future offered
her but two alternatives — marriage with the man
whom she loved, or spinsterhood ; and that,
consequently, the calling together of young
men with long hair and violins under their
arms from all quarters of Paris was so much

VOL. IL u

labour lost. But Varna was so fractious
when crossed, and made such long and agitating
scenes if she did not get what she wanted,
that it seemed wisest, upon the whole, to keep
silence and submit to be bored to death.

It was at this time that the occupants of the
entresol beneath the Princess's suite of rooms
in the Boulevard Malesherbes began to suffer
much annoyance from the scraping, twanging
and tooting which took place nearly every
evening directly over their heads. Varna,
in prosecution of her scheme, had decided upon
holding a series of sociable little meetings,
during the winter months, for the ostensible
object of bringing amateur musicians together.
The notion was a disinterested one, since she
herself detested instrumental music, not to say
music of all kinds, oph^a bouffe excepted ; and
it subsequently obtained its just recompense in
the complete success of the assemblies, so far
as numbers were concerned. They descended
upon the Boulevard Malesherbes, those amateurs,
like a flight of woodcock in autumn, when
the north-west wind is blowing — de Fancy,
d'Arblay, Jaworisky with his flute, and a host
of others. Some were old frequenters of the
Princess's salons, some were brought thither
for the first time by friends. Varna smiled

upon them all, swallowing her yawns, and congratulated
herself upon having at least furnished
her step-daughter with a sufficiency of
samples of the required genus to choose between
; but Genevieve found this society nota
little burdensome. After the perfectly natural
and unassuming demeanour of Freddy Croft
and others like him, these artistic gentlemen,
With their waxed moustaches, their lone white
fingers, their airs and graces and affectations,
seemed to her intolerable. The compliments
which they showered upon her whenever she
took up her violin, failed to please her, and
their own performances made her long to stop
her ears. For all the time she wanted to be
alone, to think about the absent one, to wonder
where he was, and what he was doing, and
whether he, too, was thinking of her, all those
miles away. The ordeal was a harder one
than she had expected it to be. The sense of
loneliness was strong upon her, and there was
no one to whom she could speak upon the
subject nearest to her heart ; for Varna was
against her, with Nina she had never been able
to hit it off, and the loyal Potts considered it her
duty both to Mr. Gervis and the Princess to
refrain from any sign or hint that might influence
her ex-pupil's choice.

There remained Claud, who, to be sure, was
warmly on her side, and who had managed to
speak a word or two of encouragement to her ;
but he naturally devoted to his wife all the
time that he could spare from his literary
labours, and these had latterly claimed a large
portion of his days and nights. For it was
now well known in the rue amsterdam, in
the Boulevard Malesherbes, and elsewhere,
that Claud was at work upon a play — upon the
play, in point of fact, which was to enchant the
public, astound the critics, and start its author
upon the high road to fortune and glory. It
would have been too much to expect of a man
thus pressing towards the distant temple of
Fame that he should pause long to condole
with a younger sister upon troubles of a sentimental
nature.

PRIVATE CRITICISM.

Of all forms of composition the dramatic is
that which offers the greatest seductions to a
tyro who would fain reach celebrity by a shortcut,
and whom necessity compels to use his art
as a profession. Poets sing in the wilderness,
and may sing loudly and long before people
will turn round to listen to them ; of novelists
there is a superabundance all the world over,
and of these the French reading public has its
own favourites, and is not over-ready to recognize
the claims of fresh aspirants upon its
notice ; but the theatre, demanding no weary
period of apprenticeship, brings the author
directly face to face with the audience which
he seeks to please, and a successful first effort
at a good Parisian house means not only
present emoluments, but something like an
assured future.

Present emoluments, as Claud was beginning
to find out, were highly to be desired in his
case. It was all very well to be allowed to
contribute occasional sonnets or articles to the
Revue du Monde Littd^^aire ; but tradesmen's
bills, alas ! were not to be discharged after this
fashion ; nor could he flatter himself that a
second volume of poems was likely to prove
any more remunerative than his first had done.
It was, therefore, not unnatural that he should
turn his attention to the drama, and ask himself
whether there were any good reason why
he should fail where others, who certainly had
no title to be considered geniuses of the first
order, had achieved results at once so brilliant
and so lucrative. He had no overweening
vanity ; he did not imagine himself to be an
Auger, a Sardou, or a Dumas yf/i"; but, after
carefully perusing the works of these famous
dramatists, he did venture to conclude that he
might, without too much presumption, endeavour
to follow in their footsteps. He knew
that he had a fair command of language, some
powers of conception, and a certain degree of
insight into character. He knew, also, that
something more than this was required to
make a successful playwright ; but as to this
last essential, experience alone could decide

whether he possessed it or not, and to experience
he was resolved to appeal. Accordingly,
he laid in a fresh stock of foolscap paper, and
set to work.

Nina was greatly pleased when she heard
in what direction her husband's commanding
talents were about to be utilized. Her dream
of self-effacement remained with her still ; but
she was not one of those who can possess
their souls in patience, and she had secretly
chafed under the prospect of a long duration
of obscurity for Claud. Also that craving for
enjoyment and excitement which was part and
parcel of her nature had latterly begun to
reassert itself, as it was inevitably certain todo
in the long run. The theatre, with its
scenic effects both on and off the stage, its
visible triumphs and audible plaudits, appeared
to provide a safety-valve for instincts of whose
strength no one was more conscious than Nina
herself.

And here she found a ready sympathizer
in the volatile little lady of the Boulevard
Malesherbes. Varna, who had a hundred
different ways of occupying her leisure moments,
seldom had time or inclination to open a book,
and had hardly understood Nina's exultation
over the circumstance that Claud had got an

unpaid-for article into the Revue dtt Monde
Littdraire ; but of the stage and the glories
connected with it, of first representations and
talented authors, in accurate evening dress,
bowing their acknowledgments from a private
box, she did happen to know something, having
scores of times paid highly for the privilege
of witnessing such scenes ; and on hearing of
Claud's aspirations, she at once declared her
approval of them and her readiness to do all
that lay in her power towards bringing them
to a favourable issue. She had a notion that
the production of plays was very much a matter
of favour — that it was of the greatest importance
to a beginner to have some acquaintance
with the masters of his craft ; and just as, a
few weeks before, she had ransacked Paris to
find amateur musicians for her step-daughter's
benefit, so now she sent out emissaries to all
points of the compass in search of eminent
literary persons. To some knights of the pena
fighting journalist, a fashionable novel-writer,
a poet who had missed fire — she was
able to introduce Claud without delay. These
were occasional attendants at the little gambling
parties to which allusion has been made, and
being all of them anxious above everything
to pass for fine gentlemen and dilettanti, were

not disposed to dwell much upon the subject
of their callings or to encourage a novice with
hopes of making money at it. They were
very civil ; they conversed with Claud upon
all kinds of topics, save that of literature, for
five minutes or so after their introduction to
him; and then, having ascertained that monsieur
did not play games of chance, slipped away
towards the little room that we know of, and
happened to be looking in the other direction
the next evening that they met the embryo
dramatist. Soon, however, other men of letters
big fish and little fish, began to drop in at
those unceremonious evening assemblies which
could hardly be called parties, since no formal
invitation was ever sent out for them, but
which were often so numerously attended that
the street below was blocked with a long line
of carriages. The Princess never had any
difficulty in filling her rooms. She was not
in the least particular as to whom she admitted,
and it was an oddly-assorted crowd that came
to pay its respects to her twice a week. Scowling
refugees from foreign countries rubbed
elbows there with the representatives of their
several governments ; French generals found
themselves confronted with warriors from the
other side of the Rhine ; high political personages,

with stars and ribbons and strings of
little jewelled orders dangling from rochester,
looked in on their way to some state reception
at the Elysee; Englishmen, Americans, Italians,
specimens of all the divers nationalities which
Paris attracts, were equally welcome to the
indiscriminate hospitality of the little lady who
had contrived to make herself liked by everyone
of them. It was whispered that she was
in the pay of the Russian government, and was
able, through social influences, to furnish information
of a most valuable kind to her
Embassy ; and although there was no truth
in the report, it served to invest her with a
certain importance in the eyes of some of her
guests and in a measure to increase her popularity
among them. She did not put herself to
much pains to entertain them — nor indeed were
such pains called for ; for there was an increasing
ebb and flow of the stream upon her staircase,
few remaining long, and every one going
away when he was so minded — but she had
the knack of pleasing ; she was pretty, lively,
clever even, in the sense of being always ready
with a reply, and with a smart saying upon
occasion ; and, above all, she gave herself no
airs.

Claud, who wanted his evenings for work,

was not a very constant attendant at these
gatherings ; but it happened that, upon one
occasion, when Nina had been dining in the
Boulevard Malesherbes, he came in late to
fetch her away, and was instantly pounced
upon by Varna, who declared that she had
been anxiously awaiting his arrival for more
than an hour.

''If you had not appeared, I should never
have forgiven you," she cried. '' I have someone
here to-night whom you must absolutely
know. Do you see him over there, talking to
the woman in black velvet ? That is Point
the great Eugene himself. Come and be
presented to him at once."

Claud, as he made his bow, stole a rapid
glance at the most successful, if not the greatest
of modern French dramatic authors. Eugene
Poinsot, whose first play took the Parisians by
storm twenty years ago, and whose reputation
has done nothing but increase ever since, was
a short, stout man, with a good-natured, smooth-shaven
face and a shock of black hair, which
stood up straight from his forehead, and was
but slightly sprinkled with grey. He held out
his hand to the young man in a friendly way,
and said he was delighted to make the acquaintance
of the author of '' Par-ci, par-la."

I have read your verses, monsieur — charming
! charming ! May we not look for something
fresh from your pen before long ? When
one possesses your talents one has not the
right to let them rust."

Claud replied, with a laugh, that the reception
accorded by the public to his last
volume had sufficiently convinced him that
poetry was not his vocation.

Ah ! the public — yes, yes ; it is too true.
The public is dull and slow to appreciate
work that appears under a new name. I do
not wonder that you are discouraged. But it
is a pity— upon my honour, it is a pity ! Is
it a fact, as I have been informed, that you
have published an English edition of your
poems, and that you are a composer in two
tongues ? "

'' That was not a difficult matter," Claud
answered modestly. *' I was taught both
English and French as a child ; I have spoken
the one language as much as the other all my
life, and now I hardly know which to call my
own."

*' But it is a phenomenon — a veritable phenomenon
! The man who has command of two
languages to the extent of being able to write
and speak as readily in the one as in the other

is twice over a man. You should have a crreat
future before you, monsieur."

Not until honor afterwards did Claud dish



cover that it was this civil-spoken gentleman's
unvarying rule to laud his confreres to the
skies. Poinsot admitted as much to him when
their acquaintance was one of several years'
standing, by which time circumstances had
enabled Claud to hear the confession without
danger of wounded self-love. '' I am obliged
to say something about his works to a man
who has written ; he would never foro-ive me
if I were to keep silence ; and it is easier and
pleasant to praise than to criticise. Naturally,
one result of may method is that I have been
more or less found out, and that my good word
does not count for much. Another is that I
pass for the most good-natured man in France,
and that those who profess to laugh the most
at my verdicts end by accepting a good part
of them, as applied to their own writings. The
generality of men are nothing but big children,
who prefer sweetmeats, which cannot do them
any good and may make them ill, to the black
draught which their health requires."

It is certain that Claud swallowed the first
instalment of M. Poinsot's sweetmeats with no
small gusto. Modesty and gratification combined

prevented him from returning any very
coherent reply. He murmured something
about lauder a laudatory, and expressed a hope
that if, in his next effort, he should be tempted
into essaying another form of composition, he
might be equally fortunate in earning M.
Poinsot's approval.

Count upon it in advance," cried the great
man, without intentional irony. 'apropos, it
has been whispered to me that you are engaged
upon a comedy. That is so ? Come — so much
the better! It is needless for me to tell you
that plays, like all other things in this world,
stand or fall by their own merits ; but there are
ways in which an old hand at the trade may
help a young one. Command me, if at anytime
you should think I could be of service
to you." He waved Claud's expression of
gratitude airily aside with an outward sweep
of his large white hand. " Thank me when
I shall have done something to deserve your
thanks," quoth he magnanimously.

It was not, in truth, without reason that
Eugene Poinsot was accounted the most good-natured
man in France. Having been blessed
all his life with good fortune and a robust
digestion, he had no cause lor feeling otherwise
than kindly towards his fellow-men. His joyous

nature delighted in the environment of happy-faces
; and if, when some poor devil of his
acquaintance fell upon evil times, he preferred
sending him money to visiting him, it was only
because he could not endure the sight of
misery. His friendliness towards Claud arose,
no doubt, in a measure, out of sheer kindness
of heart : it is also possible that, being a martyr
to feminine fascinations, he may have been
anxious to do the charming Princess Ouranoff
a good turn : lastly, his praise of our hero's
poems had not been altogether insincere. He
had detected in them a felicity of expression
and, every now and again, a touch of original
thought, which had seemed to hold out hopes
of better things for the future ; and indeed it
may as well be stated here that, despite the
coldness of its first reception, the French
edition of Claud's work has, in these latter
days, attained a sale which, according to the
humble notions of some of his friends, is somewhat
out of proportion to its deserts.

Poinsot, then, took our young author In
hand, and proved himself in the sequel to be
no despicable ally. He Introduced him Into a
fashionable club ; he made him acquainted with
a larger circle of literary men than were at the
Princess's beck and call ; finally, he took him,

one day, to the Theatre du CoHsee, and presented
him to M. Leroux, the director, a
melancholy-looking personage upon whom the
announcement that M. Polnsot's friend was a
poet, and would shortly have a piece to submit
to the Parisian public, did not seem to produce
any pleasurable impression.

*' Not a piece in verse, I hope," said M.
Leroux.

Claud hastened to reassure him by stating
that his piece would be In prose, and in the
most modern of prose. It was nothing more
than a drama of every-day life that he had
undertaken, he said.

''Ah!" M. Leroux did not presume to
dictate; but perhaps he might be permitted
to say that there were certain points to be
kept in mind by every one who undertook to
write dramas relating to every-day life, and that
neglect of any one of them was apt to prove
fatal. " Draw as much as possible from the
life, monsieur ; avoid Intricacy of plot ; emphasize
details ; above all, steer clear of fine
phrases. If you will do me the honour to
forward me your piece, when finished, I will
promise you to consider it carefully ; and by
paying attention to the points which I have
taken the liberty of bringing to your notice,

you may succeed in producing something which
will take the fancy of the public. As for me,
I shall esteem myself happy, should it be in
my power to oblige a friend of M. Poinsot's."

Such a success as the manager prognosticated
certainly did not seem to be beyond the
reach of a moderate ambition. " He is no
enthusiast, this good Leroux," remarked Poinsot,
getting up, with a laugh. " One soon ceases
to be so in his trade. No matter ! — he is not
the less eager to secure a good play when he
has the chance."

With that Mentor and Telemachus took
their leave, M. Leroux accompanying them to
the door, and reiterating, as a last word of
warning, '' Above all, monsieur, no fine
phrases ! "

If the taking of infinite pains be the most
certain means of attaining a desired end, the
prospects of Claud's play should have been reassuring.
Mindful of M. Leroux's advice, he
studied carefully from the life, spending hours
in society which was not much to his taste for
the sake of familiarizing himself with the
tendency of thought and turns of speech
common among the people whom he wished to
depict ; he resolutely eliminated, both from his
plot and his dialogue, all that seemed to savour

VOL. IT. X

ever so slightly of extravagance ; he pondered
over each sentence, and did not hesitate to
sacrifice the work of days if, upon re-perusal,
it struck him as unsatisfactory. It was a weary
task ; but he faced it patiently, feeling that its
importance as bearing upon his future could
not be overrated.

In the meantime all this pre-occupation was
little by little bringing the death-blow to the
idyllic life of the rue amsterdam. Claud and
Nina were experiencing the common lot of
mankind —

Die Leidenschaft flight,
Die Liege muss leben ;
Die Blume verbliiht,
Die Fmclit muss tribe — "

They had reached that period of their life's
voyage In which so many make shipwreck ;
that time of trial in which fancy — poor, pretty
fancy, which has little to do with a work-a-day
world like this — has to be purged away, that it
may be seen whether love lies beneath It or no ;
and if one of them was unconscious that he was
passing through any crisis, the other recognized
It plainly enough. From the nature of the
case it must always be the woman who suffers
most from this sort of inevitable awakening,
this dismal discovery that —

"Love — at least this love of one for one —
Is, at the best, not all beneath the sun — "

The husband has other things to think of;
business to attend to ; work — or pleasure,
elevated to the rank of work — which takes him
out into the world, and keeps him engaged.
It is the wife who must sit at home and think
sadly of the golden days of idleness gone, never
to return.

Nqw, if there was one occupation for which
]airs. Claud Gervis was less qualified by nature
than another, it was precisely that of sitting at
home and mourning. When she realized that
playtime was over ; that there were to be no
more snug little dinners on the Boulevard (for
this hand-monmouth kind of life had been found
incompatible with the exigencies of mental
labour, and a cook had been engaged for the
young couple) ; no more pleasant days spent
in dawdling among the trees of Saint-Germain
or along the alleys of Versailles — when, in a
word, she found that her dream had melted
into thin air, after the manner of dreams, she
accepted the changed order of things without
outward repining, and determined to seek such
legitimate amusements as lay within her reach
rather than spend long, solitary hours in
grieving over the inevitable. It was some

o

consolation to her to feel that the disillusion
which she had foreseen from the first, and of
which she had warned Claud in the autumn
woods long ago, was coming through no fault
of hers. She was not so foolish as to remind
him of her prophecy or to point out its
approaching fulfilment. When Claud looked up
from his writing to say what good times they
would have when spring came round again and
his task was done — when he sketched out some
vague plan for spending the summer in the
depths of the forest of Fontainebleau, and
declared that, if this first effort of his should
turn out well, he would give himself a holiday
of at least six weeks, she smiled, and did not
contradict him. But she knew full well that
no forest solitudes would ever see her and her
husband alone together again. And was it nota
fact full of significance that he never raised
the faintest objection to her entering society
under the Princess's wing, to her attending
balls, concerts and receptions evening after
evening, and returning home in the grey light
of dawn ? He seemed quite contented to hear
descriptions of all these brilliant entertainments
the next day, and to feel no sort of regret at
being precluded from taking part in them
himself.

The truth Is that Nina led a bright and
merry existence during those winter months,
and only lamented the loss of the ideal life at
intervals. The Paris of the Parisians pleased
her no less than that out-door Paris which
offers so smiling a welcome to strangers had
done ; and the liking was reciprocal. At the
gatherings to which she was taken almost every
night by the Princess she was even more surrounded
than was that popular lady herself.
Her dress, her manners, everything about her
even to her English accent — were pronounced
charming ; her only defect was that she had a
husband. " Et encore ! " — as the Princess whispered,
behind her fan, to one of her own
admirers.

There was no rivalry between these ladies.
Each had her own circle of slaves ; their
different styles of beauty rendered them excellent
foils to one another ; and Varna, with
her white skin and childish face, had no need
to be jealous of Nina's advantage over her in
point of youth. The two of them entirely
eclipsed Genevieve — who, for that matter, was
quite content to be eclipsed. The society
which Mrs. Gervis found so agreeable failed
to attract her; she drew odious comparisons
between the fatuous, faultlessly got-up young

gentlemen who were its chief ornaments, and
their less polished but more human equivalents
on the other side of the channel ; and her best
evenings were those on which she was allowed
to remain at home with Miss Potts, while the
others drove away to display their pretty faces
and their fresh toilettes at half a dozen different
houses. It was then that the violin was taken
out of its case, and strange fantasias, such as
the Princess's musical friends had never been
privileged to listen to, were performed.

Late one afternoon, in the twilight hour before
dinner-time, the four persons above mentioned
were sitting round a cheerful fire. Varna
and Nina, gloved and bonneted, their furs flung
back from their shoulders, were morally vivisecting
the ladies whom they had found at
home in the course of a round of ceremonious
visits. Genevieve, gazing dreamily at the
glowing logs, took no part in the conversation,
which only reached her ears by snatches. Miss
Potts, bolt upright in her chair, was equally
silent. Miss Potts seldom opened her lips in
the presence of Mrs. Gervis, of whom she
strongly disapproved, not more on account of
her scandalous behaviour in eloping from her
father's house than of her present apparent
negligence of a wife's domestic duties. Presently

the click of a closing door was heard
from the other end of the room, and a man's
figure, dark and shadowy in that half-light, was
seen advancing, hat in hand, across the thick
carpet. The Princess rose ; and then, as the
new-comer drew near enough to be recognized,
she uttered a little shriek. " You ! "

Myself, madame. The Marseilles express
brought me here this morning, and, as you see,
I have lost no time in reporting my arrival to
you."

Genevieve fancied that she had heard the
voice before, but the fire-light did not reach to
the height of the speaker's face ; and a long
grey overcoat and trousers of the same colour,
terminating in a very neat little pair of shiny
leather boots, might have belonged to anybody.

** I have left " he resumed ; but here he

was interrupted by a prolonged fit of coughing,
which forced him to sink down into the nearest
chair, and then the features of M. Hirsch became
plainly visible. " I apologize most
humbly for making such a horrible noise," said
he faintly, as soon as he was able to speak.
*' I can only beg you to believe that I do not
do it for pleasure. For the last week my life
has been one long apology, for I have scarcely
ceased coughing from morning to night."

And you have left the south in that state !
What imprudence ! " ejaculated the Princess.

Dear madame, you are aware that prudence
has never been one of my numerous virtues.
But is not that Miss Gervis whom I see ? "

Genevieve got up, and shook hands with the
man whom she had met last in such evil case.
Fortune had smiled upon M. Hirsch since
then, seemingly ; for he was well dressed, a
large turquoise ornamented his little finger, and
the stick upon which he leant was mounted in
gold.

What ! you are already acquainted ? " exclaimed
Varna. And then. — " Ah, to be sure.
What am I thinking of ? I had forgotten."

There was a short pause. '' Mademoiselle
was very good to me when I was in England,"
said M. Hirsch gravely. " I have not forgotten
her kindness."

Then came another rather uncomfortable
pause ; after which Genevieve, for want of
something better to say, remarked, " You have
come from the south ? "

From Nice, mademoiselle."

'' Which you ought never to have left," put
in the Princess, reproachfully.

Which circumstances have compelled me
to leave. Nice is a delightful residence. One

breathes a balmy air there ; one has a sea
which is always blue, a sun which is always
warm, a cosmopolitan society — all that the
heart of man can desire. Unhappily, the place
has one fatal drawback; it is situated within
a short and easy journey of the principality
of Monaco."

'' Ah ! "

It was from Varna's lips that this pregnant
monosyllable fell.

Hirsch turned towards her with raised
shoulders and hands outspread. '' Alas !
madame, the old story ! I have never had any
luck in my life."

'' You have not broken the bank, then ? "
asked Varna carelessly. But It struck Genevieve
that her voice was a trifle tremulous.

'eon the contrary, madame ; the bank has
broken me. A complete defeat all along the
line ! Cleaned out, my dear lady — empty ! " —
here he made as though he would turn his
pockets inside out — 'literally empty!" Another
violent coughing-hit interrupted him. " Being
unable to live down there without playing," he
went on, "and being unable to play without
money, I have returned to Paris, which is as
good a place to die In as another. I have
returned to die at your feet, madame," he

added, turning to Varlnka with a bow and a
grin. The man's sunken cheeks and wasted
form added such emphasis to this ghastly
pleasantry that Nina, for one, began to find
the situation unbearable. It seemed to herby
no means impossible that he might carry
out his threat, and die there and then. She
jumped up, and withdrew, after bidding everybody
a hasty good-night. Not, however,
before M. Hirsch had expressed a polite desire
to renew his acquaintance with her husband.
*' Of whose growing celebrity as an author,"
said he, " I have heard a great deal. We are
not left altogether without the news of the day
at Nice ; and it will be a great satisfaction tome
if I am able to assist at the production of
Mr. Gervis's first play, and to add my small
tribute to the general applause."

To judge by his looks, he was not likely
to be present at that, or any other earthly
scene in three months' time, which was the
earliest date at which Claud anticipated that
his piece could be put upon the stage. Nina
went home, and reported to her husband that
that ragged man who had appeared at South-lands
in the summer had turned up again,
decently clothed, this time, but penniless and
in the last stage of consumption, and that she

really believed he had only come to Paris to
entreat the Princess to give him decent burial.

Subsequently, however, It appeared that M.
HIrsch was neither so ill nor so destitute ashe
had represented himself to be. He continued
to cough in a most distressing manner,
but he did not seem to draw nearer to death;
while that he had still some means left was
sufficiently proved by his engaging' rooms at
an expensive hotel and setting up a hired
brougham, in which he had himself driven
regularly once, and sometimes twice a day to
the Boulevard Malesherbes. Before he had
been ten days in Paris he had become a recognized
appendage of the Princess's household,
where no one any longer treated him as a
visitor or thought it necessary to entertain him.
He had his own chair by the fireside ; and
there he would often sit, alone and idle, the
whole afternoon through, his wasted hands
lying loosely clasped upon his knee and his
little colourless eyes blinking at the flames.
At such times he had a patient, submissive
look which lent a touch of pathos to his rather
ignoble cast of countenance. Genevieve, who
came in, once or twice, and found him sitting
thus all by himself, felt her heart moved with
pity for the friendless man, and used to say a

kind word or two to him, for which he was
almost ridiculously grateful. She thought him
much changed for the better since the summer.
Certain things there were about him, it was
true, which were not susceptible of alteration
or improvement — such were his sharp, wolf-like
teeth, his shallow eyes, and the abnormally-shaped
skull which Providence had seen fit to
place upon his shoulders — but respectable
clothing did something for him ; and to Genevieve
at least his manner was always gentle
and respectful. Towards others he bore himself
less amiably. It was as though he had
learnt that the world was against him, and
being too worn out to fight any longer, showed
his contempt for the hostility of mankind by
a perpetual veiled sneer, which made itself felt
even in his most ordinary and civil phrases.
Hence he was tolerated, rather than liked, in
the small circle into which he had chosen to
intrude, and Varna, though affecting to treat
him as an old friend, was obviously ill at ease
in his presence, and lost no opportunity of
urging him to return to a climate better suited
to his state of health.

She had a disconnected, mysterious story
ready to satisfy the curiosity of those who
made inquiries about him. She had known

him from her childhood. He belonged to a
noble Russian family — he had had misfortunes.
For the rest, an excellent, Worthy man; but,
(raising her finger to her forehead), a little
touched on the question of politics. '' He took
it into his head to advocate democratic principles
; and with us, you understand, when a
man adopts democratic principles — You would
be astonished if I were to tell you how many
members of our highest families are wandering
about the world now under assumed names.
But it is not well to chatter over much about
such things. For my part, I love my fellow-countrymen
wherever I find them, and I do
not ask whether their opinions are the same
as my own. I should be more than ashamed
of myself if I were to turn the cold shoulder
to one whom I have known all my life because
he is no longer what he once was."

This language was felt to be highly creditable
to the Princess, who, indeed, had ever
professed (whether sincerely or not no one
knew, and it did not greatly signify) a somewhat
ostentatious sympathy with oppressed
patriots and a readiness to throw open her
doors to the victims of despotism.

M. Hirsch, then, was accepted as a necessary
incubus ; and if he was sometimes a little in the

way during the daylight hours, it might be set
against that that he was always ready to take
a hand at baccarat, when evening came, and to
lose his money without a frown. One thing
was clear ; that he had no intention of moving
from Paris.

The days and weeks passed on ; winter gave
place to the cold winds and showers and sunshine
of spring; the chestnut trees in the gardens
of the Tuileries put forth their leaves ; and at
last, one fine morning, when Nina was standing
In her drawing-room, superintending the
arrangement of a small cart-load of plants which
she had purchased In the flower-market by the
Madeleine, Claud marched in, with a triumphant
mien, and, dashing down a pile of
manuscript upon the table, cried, " It is done ! "

It was done. The play upon which so many
anxious hours of labour had been spent, which
had been altered, corrected and revised with
hopes and misgivings known only to its author,
lay there, finished at length and neatly copied
out, and big with the fate of the two innocents
who stood looking at it. Nina felt her breath
coming quickly as she gazed at that insensible
heap of closely-written sheets upon the destiny
of which such weighty issues depended.

Are you satisfied with it ? " she asked
eagerly. '' Do you think it is good ? "

Claud shook his head. '' I haven't the most
distant idea. I have pored over the wretched
thing till I know every word of it by heart ;
and now I can no more judge of it than I could
of a piece that I had never seen. Sometimes
I think it will go down ; sometimes I am convinced
that it is the very dullest stuff that ever
Alas written. Well, we shall be put out of our
pain to some extent before tomorrow morning.
Varna has promised me the use of
her drawing-room this evening to read it to
a score or so of people ; and if they report
favourably upon it, there will be that much
gained."

It was M. Poinsot who had insisted upon
this preliminary ordeal, which Claud, for his
part, would gladly have dispensed with. "It
will give you courage," the elder man had said.
'' Afterwards you will have to read your work
to a less friendly audience, and you will not doit
the worse if you are free from nervousness
and have the echoes of a bravo or two in your
ears." ,

That some guarantee against nervousness
was called for Claud himself was forced to confess
not many hours later. He has since
assured his present biographer that never, in
all his life has he experienced anything like, the

sickening sense of discomfiture and dismay that
fell upon him when he seated himself at the
little table in the Princess's drawing-room, upon
which a pair of candles, a glass of water and
the famous play had been placed in readiness
for him. And yet it was not a very formidable
audience that he was asked to face. Poinsot,
smiling encouragement from his arm-chair in
the front rank beside the Princess ; Genevieve,
Nina, and a sprinkling of other ladies ; a couple
of celebrated authors, whose sympathy might
be supposed to be quickened by their own
memories of the agony attendant upon a first
plunge ; the fire-eating journalist of whom
mention has been made ; a few literary stars of
the fourth or fifth magnitude, and a ruck composed
of the gilded youth which frequented the
house — all these were well-disposed towards
the beginner, and asked for nothing better than
to be given an opportunity of testifying their
good-will. But in truth it was not so much of
them as of the sound of his own voice that
Claud was afraid. However, there was no
possibility of drawing back at that advanced
stage of the proceedings, so he gulped down
half his glass of water, dropped his head on to
his hands, and fixing his eyes upon the MS.,
began : '' Amour et Amitie : drame en cinq

actes," proceeding with the list of the dramatis
persons.

Here is the Argument, as forwarded to me ina
letter which I received from Claud about this
time.

'' Georges and Victor de Sancerre, cousins
and fellow-collegians, celebrate their simultaneous
entry upon life in Paris by vows of an
eternal friendship, which is not disturbed, in
the sequel, by the circumstance that they are
both secretly enamoured of Eugenie Delacroix,
the playmate of their youth, who has just
emerged from her convent, and who is (of
course) everything that could be desired in the
way of beauty and innocence. The choice of
the young lady, and of her parents, falls immediately
upon Georges, who has advantages in
the way of fortune and good looks which are
denied to Victor. The latter, successfully concealing
his chagrin and his unsuspected attachment,
attends the wedding ceremony, says all
the fine things that are expected of friends on
such occasions, and magnanimously resolves todo
violence to his feelings by remaining a constant
spectator of the happiness of the young
couple and acting as a jealous guardian of the
same. For this Victor, you must understand,
is a sober fellow, and knowing his cousin's in-vol.

II. Y

Stability of character, perceives how necessary it
may become that he should have a mentor at
his elbow. Georges is in due course carried
away by the current of Parisian society, begins
to neglect his wife, and finally falls under the
dominion of Blanche, Comtesse de Charles,
who is the wicked woman of the tale, and whose
charms and iniquities you will please to imagine
as limitless. Eugenie, disconsolate and forsaken,
finds her sole solace in the respectful
sympathy of Victor, whose efforts to reclaim
the erring Georges have only resulted in bringing
about a coolness between the two friends.
Accidentally discovering at the same moment
Victor's long-hidden love and her husband's
infidelity, she throws herself into the arms of
the former, implores his pardon for all the pain
that she has caused him, and entreats him, in
the most eloquent language, to take her away
from her misery. Victor, upon this, comes out
very strong indeed. After a prolonged and
desperate struggle with himself — ' No,' says he;
I renounce all that you offer me for three good
reasons. You love your husband ; you do not
love me; and I — I love you both!' Now, in
the midst of this affecting scene, at the very
moment when Victor is imprinting his first kiss
the kiss of renunciation, you know— upon

Eugenie's forehead, who should come striding
in but Georges himself? Madame de Charles
has, all this time, been quieting the troublesome
conscience of her lover by insinuating doubts
as to the fidelity of his wife and his friend ;
and it is through a wily stratagem of hers that
he is enabled to arrive just in the nick of time,
and to obtain this convincing proof of their
treachery. Recriminations, threats — finally, explanations,
and pardon of the repentant and
remorseful Georges. Victor, deprived at one
blow both of the love and of the friendship
which had made his life endurable, announces
his speedy departure for the deadly climate of
Senegal, and is about to retire, when Eugenie
stops him. ' Stay with us,' she cries ; ' what
have you, or we, to fear ? You have shown
that with you friendship and duty are stronger
even than love. Stay — to be the good genius
of my husband, the guardian angel of the home
which you have restored to us. Stay till we
have found you a wife more worthy of you than
I could ever have been.' And Georges chimes
in with, ' Yes, my friend ; I ask of you this
last sacrifice.' Whereupon, down comes the
curtain."

It will be at once surmised, from the above
bare outline, that the author must have based

his hopes rather upon Incident and dialogue
than upon strength of plot. Such was in fact
the case; and in so doing, Claud had chosen
advisedly. He had intended that the chief
figure upon his canvas should be that of
Madame de Charolles, and his object had been
to represent in her a type of that absolute
profligacy which has contrived in our day to
co-exist with refinement and an unexceptionable
bearing — a woman with neither heart nor
conscience, yet one in whom the inherent ugliness
of vice was so softened down as to be
perceptible only in its consequences. The
other characters in the play were rendered
entirely subsidiary to this one, upon which the
author had expended an infinity of pains, determining
to exaggerate nothing by so much asa
hair's breadth, and at the same time to miss
no single point that might serve to throw it out
into clearer relief. The whole composition was
a study, rather than a drama ; and as such, it
had, no doubt, considerable merit. The only
question was whether the study were a sufficiently
original and powerful one to hold its
own with no other support than a single strong
situation and that rigid realism of detail so
dear to the modern play-going public.

Clouds limited audience, which, small as it

was, was heterogeneous enough in its composition
to afford some clue to the probable decision
of a larger assembly, responded enthusiastically
in the affirmative. The applause, to be sure,
did not always come exactly at the moment
when the author expected and coveted it ; but
the important point was that it came, and
that it was evidently spontaneous and genuine.
When the reader had brought his task to an
end, he was immediately surrounded, and gratified
with such a shower of compliments that he
was almost stunned by them, and hardly knew
whether he was standing on his head or his
heels.

'' Magnificent ! "—" Sublime ! "— " It is truth
itself. Ah, that diablesse de Charolles ! I
recognized her from the first words." '' So did
I. The portrait is unmistakable. I used to
see a great deal of her once."

They had all seen her. And yet, Heaven
knows that she was imaginary ; and even very
imaginary. It would have required a far more
conceited man than our modest hero to be
able to listen long to this kind of thing with
complacency. He was glad to think that
his first step had been attended with success ;
he was grateful to his critics for their praise ;
but it was no small relief to him when they

began to show signs of exhaustion. Then he
remembered, with some uneasiness, that M.
Poinsot's voice had not made itself heard in
the chorus. That gentleman, however, took
an early opportunity of explaining his silence.

I wanted to leave the verdict to them," he
said. '' If I had given them a lead, they would
have followed me, like so many geese on a
common. I congratulate you, my friend. I
think your play will do. You are no longer
afraid of facing Leroux, eh ? Did I not tell
you how it would be ? "

And shortly afterwards M. Poinsot, who at
that moment was refreshing himself with a slice
oi galantine and a glass of wine, was observed
to laugh under his breath, as at some diverting
reminiscence.

'' Why do you laugh ? " asked Claud, suspiciously.


'' I was thinking of your Victor. What a
good fellow ! what a loyal consoler of the
afflicted ! Only, if I had been in his place "

You would have spoilt my drama," said
Claud, laughing too. " Don't be afraid ; if ever
I put you into a play, you shall not be exposed
to Victor's temptations."

And truly those who are acquainted with
M. Poinsot are aware that, though he knows

the meaning of friendship as well as most men,
his conception of the sentiment would hardly
be likely to carry him to such extreme lengths
as were attained by Claud's immaculate hero.

END OF VOL. II.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, LONDON AND Eccles.

E. NORRIS,

AUTHOR OF " MADEMOISELLE DE MERSAC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :

SMITH, ELDER & CO., 15, WATERLOO PLACE.

1881.

fall rights reserved.)

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CH.-VPTER . PAGE

I. Public Criticism . . . i

II. The Indiscretion of M. Hirsch . 23

III. Clouds in the Rue amsterdam . 51

W . In the Lincolnshire Wolds . 82

\. Among the Sand-hills . . loi

VI. Excellent Advice . . 123

VII. A Recognition . . . 149

VIII. A Retrospect . . . 171

IX. The Lessons of Experience . . 199

X. Ira Brevis Furor . . 230

XI. The Beginning of the End . . 263

XII. The End . . . . 296

in 2009 with funding from

University illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/matrimony03norr

CHAPTER I.

PUBLIC CRITICISM.

One sunny May morning the posters at the
entrance of the Theatre du CoHsee, and the
fifty — more or less — daily newspapers with
which Paris is blessed, announced the first
representation of an entirely new drama, entitled
'' Amour et Amitie." Many of the newspapers
had for some time previously been
preparing their readers for this intelligence by
letting fall sundry hints as to the plot of the
piece which M. Leroux was understood to
have in preparation, by describing the various
toilettes which Mdlle. Thomery, to whom the
chief role had been assigned, had ordered of
her dressmaker for the occasion, and by imparting
such information as could be gleaned

VOL. HI. B

with reference to the young and gifted Englishman
who was about to enter the ranks of
French authors. It was Varna who, through
the medium of her belHcose journalist, had thus
helped the coming event to cast its shadow
before it. Claud himself had little fancy for
such devices ; but more experienced persons
differed from him, and unquestionably the
curiosity of the public was excited, and the
interests of the play in so far served, by
the premature disclosure of the author's nationality.
The strange phenomenon of a French
play written by an Englishman naturally took
the fancy of the Parisians, who have been
compared before now to the Athenians of St.
Paul's day ; and doubtless the novelty of the
attraction offered acted as a stimulus to the
sale of tickets for 'amour et Amitie," which,
on this last day, found ready purchasers at four
and five times their authorized price. Everybody
who was anybody had secured a place at
the Coliseum for this important evening.

It is a success before the event ! " cried the
optimist Polnsot enthusiastically.

Claud, for his part, was far from being
equally sanguine. The weeks which had
elapsed between the formal acceptance of his
piece and its production had been little else

than a prolonged martyrdom for him. Released
from the labour of composition, which had
hitherto kept his time and thoughts occupied,
he had had leisure to indulge in the alternating
fits of hope and despondency which commonly
beset those who are committed to a doubtful
enterprise, and to experience all the feverish
miseries of suspense.

M. Leroux, whose impassive melancholy was
not to be dissipated by anything short of accomplished
facts, had administered to him something
more than an antidote to the unmeasured
eulogies of the Princess's guests.

When all is said, monsieur," the manager
had observed, " it is neither you, nor I, nor our
friend M. Poinsot there who will deliver judgment
upon you, but the public ; and I, who
have served the public for five-and-twenty
years, have reason to know that it is a
capricious master. I have seen it reject works
of high merit, and acclaim rubbish which I
blushed to put upon my stage. For myself,
I think well of your piece, as I have proved to
you by accepting it ; but I answer for nothing.
Ivy advice to you is not to be over-elated, if
it succeeds, nor too much cast down, if it fails.
In the latter case, you will have the consolation
of thinking that you are not alone in misfortune;

for, after all, it would be upon me that the
expense of a failure would fall."

These words of cold comfort rang continually
in Claud's ears, and effectually robbed other
and more encouraging utterances of their sweetness.
There were days when it was pain and
grief to him to hear his play mentioned — when
he would escape into the streets, and wander
hither and thither for hours with no other
object than to be alone. But his spirits rose
as the limit of uncertainty drew nearer ; some
alterations In the text, demanded at the last
moment by Mdlle. Thomery, an imperious
lady, afforded him employment ; a full-dress
rehearsal, which passed off without any contretemps,
served to cheer him ; and when the
supreme moment came, he was able, with some
creditable show of outward composure, to enter
the box in which his wife, Varna and Genevieve,
attended by Miss Potts, had already
taken their places.

From the friendly shade of the background
he looked out upon a house crowded from roof
to basement — upon the great ladies whose
diamonds glittered all round the curve of the
first tier ; upon the ladies who were be-diamond
without being great ; upon the
critics, suave and impartial ; upon the jeunesse

lorde, vacuous, commanded, gloved, after the
manner of its kind ; upon the delegates of the
million overhead ; and below, in the stalls and
pit, upon a multitude of heads, some sleek,
some bald, some shaggy, all containing a
greater or less modicum of brain, which would
presently be called upon to exercise its functions,
and create a reputation or strangle it in
its birth. And as he surveyed the throng. It
seemed to him that he was looking, not so much
at that many-headed master of whom Leroux
had spoken as at a host of enemies whose
approbation must be wrested from them by
conquest, and in whose presence his own
audacity and weakness became startling apparent.
What was it to all these Indifferent
strangers that he had toiled day after day and
night after night in perfecting the work which
they were to judge of at one hearing .^ What
did they care, though the future of two lives
hung on their nod ? To his excited fancy this
good-natured, chattering public assumed the
guise of a cruel, man-devouring dragon, against
which he — poor pigmy! — must presently sally
forth and do battle, with no other weapon In
his hand than a goosequlll.

He communicated some of these sinister
impressions to Poinsot, who was standing behind

him, sweeping the house with his opera-glasses,
and who answered him with a shade of
derision.

"You are much to be ^iti^dy par ble^c ! It is
a terrible affair that all Paris should come to
see your first play, is it not ? But don't you
understand, oh, wretched and ungrateful young
man ! that you have arrived at the finest
moment of your whole life ? When will you
feel again the delightful tremor that you do
now ? When will the intoxicating emotion
that you will feel directly, when the clapping
begins, come back to you ? Do you suppose
that one does not grow accustomed to the
applause of the crowd as quickly as to all other
things ? "

*' Ah, you speak at your ease : you are a
successful author."

And you are upon the point of becoming
one. That is why I should be glad to change
places with you."

Poinsot resumed his examination of the
audience, and waved his hand to some distant
acquaintance. How long was this ordeal going
to last ? Claude wondered. Would they never
begin ?

Nina, perfectly calm and at her ease, was
pointing out to her neighbour the toilette of
the Austrian ambassadress opposite.

'' Real old point de Venise ; I could swear toit
at any distance."

'what has become of M. Hirsch?" Genevieve
asked.

'' He has gone behind the scenes," answered
the Princess over her shoulder. '' He is snuffing
the battle from afar, like Job's war-horse."

'' My dear madam ! " ejaculated Miss Potts,
scandalized.

*' Well — what ? Job had a war-horse ; you
will find him mentioned in the scriptures. I
could give you chapter and verse, if I chose.
Tell me, M. Poinsot — you who know everybody
who are those people over there ? "

Compatriots of yours. Princess — General
Karakoff and his wife. Did you never meet
him? He is the most inveterate gambler in
Europe."

*'Ah! He has an air of distinction. You
might bring him to see me, some evening, if
you liked."

In the midst of the fragments of conversation
which caught Claud's ear from time to time
and of the buzz of voices which filled all the
house, three loud raps resounded from the
stage, arousing, we may be sure, a corresponding
number of thumps in our hero's breast.
There was a general '' Sh-heh ! " — and the
curtain rose.

There was nothing in the first act of 'amour
et Amitie" which could afford a clue to the
ultimate fate of the play. Ending with the
marriage of Georges de Sancerre, it was little
more than a prelude to the plot, and left the
motif six uncertain. It met with a favourable,
but not very warm reception ; and this was
about as much as could have been reasonably
expected for it. Such applause as there was
came obviously from the claque and was not
taken up in other parts of the theatre ; but the
audience was attentive and, to all appearance,
not dissatisfied. Claud, who had begun by
being as nervous as a conscript on the eve of
his first battle, had recovered himself, now that
he was, so to speak, under fire, and was able
to take note of the impression produced upon
those who sat in his neighbourhood, and to
recognize with pleasure that it was not an
adverse one. He even fancied that he could
detect a qualified approbation in the air of the
redoubtable critics. During the entrance M.
Leroux entered the box, and was presented to
the ladies, who smiled upon him graciously.
So graciously, indeed, that he felt it incumbent
upon him to speak a few deprecatory words.

I have done my part, mesdames ; the rest
is in the hands of fortune and of the public.

All that I can tell you Is that we have spared
neither pains nor expense. And, as you see,
we have managed to draw a crowd."

The manager was a trifle less lugubrious
than usual. Several capable judges, he said,
had praised the author's style and judicious use
of colloquialisms ; he was satisfied with the
effect of the first act, with regard to which he
confessed that he had had certain misgivings ;
he did not contradict M. HIrsch, who declared
boldly that the only dangerous place had been
triumphantly passed, and that the road to
honour and distinction now lay open.

In the second act Mdlle. Thomery made her
appearance as the Comtesse de Charolles, and
was greeted with the sustained acclamations to
which that popular actress is accustomed. She
looked and acted her part to perfection. A
complete change came over the aspect of the
house during the really clever and brilliant
scene which ensued between her and Georges ;
every point was seized, and marked by murmurs
of approval, and whenever an opportunity
occurred, the plaudits were loud and long.

You see," said Poinsot, nodding to Claud.
'' They are waking up ; they are beginning to
appreciate you."

It is the costume," muttered the prosaic

Leroux. And, In fact, Mdlle. Thomery's walk-ingress,
which had been designed for the
express purpose of introducing a new fashion,
was exciting a good deal of admiring scrutiny
among the ranks of the ladles. Still, making
due deductions for this, and for the homage
paid to the actress's talent, there still remained
a fair share of applause to be set down to the
author's credit ; and when the curtain fell once
more amidst prolonged clapping from all parts
of the theatre, Claud felt himself justified in
singing an inward lo trhmtphe !

*' Let me be the first to congratulate you, my
dear confrere,' cried Poinsot, stretching out his
hand.

Other zealous friends came streaming in
through the open door of the box, and for a
few minutes our hero found himself the subject
of a small ovation, and tasted all the joys of
success. Then he went down to express his
thanks to Mdlle. Thomery, whom he found in
high good humour, and who was not chary of
her compliments in return for his. A similar
interchange of civilities with the other members
of the company had next to be gone through.
Everybody was contented ; everybody was full
of confidence ; already the prize seemed to be
within the fortunate author's grasp.

But Act III., alas ! was destined to exemplify
the truth of the old proverb, that there's many
a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip. It became
only too plain that Madame de Charolles was
the sole character that interested the audience.
She continued to be received with marked
sympathy ; but her appearances were less frequent
than in the foregoing act, and the scenes
between the blameless Victor and Eugenie, and
the former's rather lengthy soliloquies fell woefully
flat. And now one of those untoward
accidents occurred which have sealed the fate
of many better pieces than '' Amour et Amitie.'
At the conclusion of a visit paid to the disconsolate
Eugenie, who is as yet unaware of the
full extent of her misfortune, Victor, finding
the situation intolerable, and fearing lest he
should be betrayed into saying too much, is
made to seize his hat and make a precipitate
move towards the door ; while the lady innocently
lays her hand upon his arm to detain
him. The impersonation of Madame de Sancerre
played her part here to such purpose
that she very nearly dragged Victor's light
overcoat off his shoulders, whereupon some
wag piped out in a shrill treble from the
gallery, '' Cours vite, mon petit Joseph I "
which sally had the effect of bringing the

scene to an end in the midst of a universal
hilarity.

After this it was all up with poor Victor.
Every time that he appeared upon the stage
some fresh witticism was hurled at him from
the gallery ; he could not open his lips without
provoking an ill-suppressed titter in all quarters
of the house. The unfortunate actor was fairly
put out of countenance at last, and mumbled
through his part in a sufficiently ridiculous and
shamefaced manner.

In the fourth act matters went even worse.
The audience no longer laughed, but yawned.
A murmur of conversation began to make itself
heard ; some persons moved from their places,
making more noise over it than was necessary ;
a few left the theatre. Not all the skill of
Mdlle. Thomery, not the chef-d'oeuvre in the
form of a ball-dress which she wore, not the
development of the plot, nor the dialogue which
had cost Claud so many laborious hours of
polishing and relishing availed to stave off
the impending catastrophe. No room for illusions
was left : '' Amour et Amitie " had been
weighed in the balance, and found wanting.

And yet the piece was by no means without
its good points. Witness the opinion of M.
Poinsot — a competent judge, if ever there was

one — who maintains to this day that it was
within an ace of making a hit. But the story-was
ill-suited for the stage ; it dragged painfully
in places, and lacked action throughout.
Moreover, Claud had taken too literally M.
Leroux's caution against fine phrases. In his
determination to avoid bombast, and to use
only the language of real life, he had erred in
the opposite direction, and made his personages
talk coolly and concisely upon occasions when,
in real life, less measured utterances would probably
have been heard. It was from real life
that he had studied, but he had omitted to
study real life under abnormal conditions ; and
the result was that he produced a picture in
which one boldly and cleverly drawn figure
was flanked by a number of uncertain outlines.
Out of such materials as he had worked upon
an entertaining story might possibly have been
constructed — hardly a tolerable play.

The one dramatic situation of the fifth act
came too late to dispel the ill-humour of an
angry and disappointed public. It was scarcely
looked at or listened to ; and the actors, who
had loyally done their best, and struggled for
an hour or more past against a foregone condemnation,
played hurriedly now, and with
evident discouragement. Doubtless they, in

common with the author and the audience,
were anxious to get the unlucky business
finished with all despatch.

It Is a pity that plays are not like speeches
or lectures, which, if found unmistakably wearisome,
can be wound up and ended, or ended
without being wound up, to the great comfort
of speaker and hearers alike ; for, had such a
course been practicable, Claud might have been
spared one final humiliation. The conclusion
of the play was certainly the weakest point ina
composition which was not remarkable for
strength in any part. The lack of poetical
justice which left the prize with vice, and turned
poor virtue out Into the cold, was, perhaps,
pardonable, seeing that the whole conception
was designed to mirror life as It is, not as it
ought to be ; but the spectacle of an injured
wife Imploring the man who loves her to remain
at hand as the guardian angel of the husband
by whom she has been deceived, and of the
said husband joining his entreaties to hers,
leans, it must be confessed, rather towards the
ridiculous than the sublime, and there could be
but little doubt as to the aspect In which it
was likely to present itself to the Gallic mind.
When Eugenie exclaimed, " You have proved
that duty Is dearer to you even than love," she

was answered by cries of "Parbleu!" and "Je
cross bien ! " from beyond the footlights ; and
George's grave " Yes, my friend ; I ask of you
this last sacrifice," was greeted with roars of
laughter, above which rose a piercing whistle
or two, and a few ironical shouts of " Bravo ! "

With this mocking tumult ringing in his ears,
Claud saw the curtain fall upon 'amour et
Amitie," and knew that his labour was lost, and
his drama irrevocably doomed. There have
been more complete frescoes ; for the approval
accorded to the opening scenes might be taken
as counting for something ; but there could be
none more irretrievable. Claud needed neither
the averted gaze of Varna, who had enveloped
herself in her wraps, and was quitting
the box precipitately, nor the ominous disappearance
of all his quondam supporters to convince
him of that. To Genevieve's whispered
suggestion that some judicious excisions and
alterations might yet secure a future for the
play, he answered, without loss of composure,
"No; it is like Humpty-dumpty; it has had
a great fall, and not all the king s horses nor
all the king's men can set it up again. The
best thing we can do is not to say another
word about the matter." He had played his
trump-card and lost the trick, and now it only

remained to pay and look pleasant. That part
of his duty he was glad to find that he was able
to perform.

Has it ever happened to the reader to be
compelled to hide some acute mental or
physical suffering through long hours, under
a mask of smiling cheerfulness — sustained,
the while, by that comfortable inward glow
which may be termed, according to taste.
Spartan fortitude or gratified self-love ? If
so, he will know what it was that enabled
Claud to attend the sumptuous supper which
the Princess had ordered in anticipation of
his triumph, and to listen without flinching to
the words of condolence and comfort meted
out to him by his neighbours. They spared
him nothing, those well-meaning, amiable blockheads.
He had to hear a dozen polite criticisms
of his piece ; to be told of a score of
good reasons for Its failure. '' Monsieur, your
play is admirable. It has only this defect,
which I perceived at the outset." " Monsieur
I venture to predict that you will succeed in
dramatic composition yet ; but in future you
must be careful to avoid one palpable error."
'' Monsieur, I foresaw the danger that lay
before you when you read us your excellent
piece," and so on. The Princess, who had displayed

such an unexpected familiarity with the
Book of Job earlier in the evening, must have
been forcibly reminded of Elisha, Bildad, and
Sopha as she listened to them. Well might
Claud have turned upon them, like his long-suffering
prototype, with ''No doubt but ye are
the people, and wisdom shall die with you ; "
but he refrained, and did not even remind
them that they had taken up a very different
tone at the time when their strictures might
have been of some use to him. Later, when
the champagne had circulated freely, they
dropped criticism, and became delightfully encouraging.
What, after all, was one failure at
the outset of a career ? Who had not failed
once or twice in his life ? Was not Racine's
first tragedy a failure ? Did not Corneille
have to struggle for a matter of twelve years
before the Academy would open its doors to
him ? Really it seemed as if almost every
writer of any repute must have begun in this
distressing fashion. The critics grew quite
merry over their historical instances, and drank
Claud's health with as much enthusiasm as if
he had been already crowned with the laurels
which they promised him.

Among this sanguine company Eugene
Poinsot was conspicuous by his absence.

VOL. III. C

During the disturbance of the third act Genevieve
had seen him make an eloquent grimace
at the audience, and slip noiselessly away ;
after which he had not returned. It has
already been said that M. Polnsot abhorred
the sight of affliction In any form. Like the
little man In the old-fashioned weather-glasses,
he was only visible vv^hen the sky was clear,
and popped out of sight on the approach of
a storm ; and since nothing that he could have
said or done could, under the circumstances,
have brought any great solace to his young
friend, he perhaps displayed as much delicacy
as good sense In absenting himself from the
Princess's supper-party. This Claud understood
; but such Is the unreasonableness of
human nature that It caused him a pang when
he looked round In vain for the merry, smooth-shaven
face which had beamed good-will upon
him every day for so many weeks past. We
do not wish our friends to intrude upon us
when we are in trouble ; we are aware that
it is best, both for their sake and for our own,
that they should leave us to ourselves for a
season ; yet it is not altogether pleasant to see
them hurrying across the street upon our
approach, and one is sometimes sensible of an
inclination to call out to them that calamity is,

after all, not contagious. And, Indeed, one of
the chief considerations which prompt the world
at large to shun the afflicted is that speech and
silence are felt to be alike offensive to them.
Of all his sympathizers the one to whom
Claud felt most grateful was M. Hirsch, who
contented himself with gripping the young
man's hand warmly at parting, and saying,
'cheer up. In my hard life, I have passed
through much worse times than ever you are
likely to see, and, as you perceive, I have survived.
Believe me, a thick skin is a great
blessing, and there is but one way of obtaining
it."

These were the last words that Claud heard,
as he followed his wife down the staircase to the
doorway, where the Princess's cottpd was waiting
to take them home. Did Nina share the
sentiments of M. Poinsot, and was It delicacy
that kept her silent, as she lay back in the
corner of that luxurious equipage, which bore
her so swiftly through the streets ? She and
her husband had not exchanged a word or a
look since leaving the theatre. At the supper-table
they had been so placed that they could
not see one another, and during the quarter of
an hour that had been spent in the salon afterwards,
before Varna, who was Independent

of sleep, had led the way to the card-room,
they had each formed the centre of a separate
little group. Now they were alone; yet they
seemed to have nothing to say to one another.
It was an odd kind of causeless estrangement
that had sprung up between them — an estrangement
of which one of them had long been
aware, but of which the other was only beginning
to be vaguely conscious — san estrangement
arising out of no quarrel that could be made
up again, but out of that far more fatal drifting
apart of which the sources lie too deep to be
easily discerned. It may have been an undefined
dread that caused them to sit speechless,
side by side, each waiting for the other to say
the first word.

At length, when the carriage had clattered
across the Place du Havre, and was mounting
the ascent of the rue amsterdam at a somewhat
reduced speed, Claud broke the silence
with a slightly forced laugh.

So it has been a disappointment," said he.

Her reply startled him a little. 'eyes," she
said ; '' it is the beginning."

The beginning of what ? What do you
mean, Nina ? I don't understand."

In truth he did not understand ; nor could
she enlighten him.

Don't let us say anything more about it
to-night," she exclaimed suddenly. '* Talking
does no good ; and — and I am so tired."

Nina, my darling, what is it ?"

Nothing," she answered ; '' only I am so
sorry — and I wanted to tell you ; but I was
afraid."

You little goose ! — afraid of what ? "

I don't know. I shall be all right tomorrow
morning," she said, straightening herself
up and drying her eyes. '' To-night I amin
the dumps — it doesn't often happen to me to
be in the dumps, does it ?■ — and somehow I feel
as if everything must go wrong now."

Claud was a good deal moved. Without
quite knowing why, he had never looked for
much sympathy from his wife ; and now — also
without quite knowing why — he felt a twinge
of self-reproach.

'things shall not go wrong," he cried.
"We must have courage, and make them go
right. As for me, I care for nothing, so long
as you love me."

And so they two climbed the long stairs that
led to their home, a little comforted.

A fine, cold rain was falling, and the dawn
was just breaking, grey and mournful, over the
succession of tall white houses and slate roofs

and chimneys which they could see from their
windows. It was that most silent hour of the
twenty-four which Immediately precedes sunrise.
The streets were deserted, the windows
all shuttered, and no smoke rose from the tall
chimneys. But soon the thousands who now
lay sleeping would begin to stir ; and In a few
hours they would have set forth, each to take
up his proper burden — to perform the dally
task which must be gone through, be the
worker sad or merry, the weather sunny or
grey. Before this couple among the rest, lay
grey days — days of trial and despondency — and
it behoved them to look Into their hearts, If
haply any of the courage of which Claud had
spoken might be found there; for the time
when it was to be required of them was at hand.

THE INDISCRETION OF M. HIRSCH.

That thorough-paced and most unprincipled
rascal Hirsch was becoming so domesticated
under the soft Influences that were brought to
bear upon him in the Boulevard Malesherbes ;
he behaved himself, when there, with so much
modesty and propriety, and showed so little
inclination to wander elsewhere in search of
disreputable diversions, that the Princess openly
declared her fear that their poor friend was not
long for this world. When and where she had
formed her opinion of M. Hirsch's character
she did not say ; but it was evidently no very
exalted one ; nor, for that matter, did the man
himself seek to disguise the fact that his life
had been that of an adventurer in every sense
of the word.

He used sometimes to shock and horrify
Miss Potts by reminiscences of his lawless

doings In Texas, In Mexico, In the republics of
South America, where, according to his own
account, he must have been pursuing an unbroken
career of crime for ten years or more.
The banks he had broken, the pigeons he had
plucked, the bottles of raw spirits which he
had disposed of at one sitting for a small
wager, the creditors whom he had left unpaid —
all these, he gave It to be understood, were
connected with the more venial class of offences
which might be laid to his charge. It has
been asserted that there is one depth of moral
turpitude to which no man has ever yet been
heard to plead guilty, namely, that of cheating
at cards. M. HIrsch must have been the
single exception which proved this general
rule ; for he admitted, without blushing, that
he was the inventor of an Ingenious system, by
means of which he had been able to win much
money at games both of skill and chance.
They robbed me for a whole year, that
canaille!' he would remark explanatorily ; " and
then for nine years I robbed them. I always
do my best to suit myself to my company."

One can imagine Miss Potts's uplifted hands,
her trembling ringlets and quivering cap-strings.
But what distressed her even more than this
was M. HIrsch's cool confession that, upon two

separate occasions, he had found It expedient
to draw his revolver, and shoot a fellow-traveller
dead in cold blood.

This is terrible ! " she would exclaim.

*' It is indeed, my dear lady," Hirsch would
answer, wagging his head mournfully. "It is
most terrible ; and I assure you that it pained
me very greatly at the time. The only thing
that could have pained me more than killing
those gentlemen would have been their killing
me. It is true that they would inevitably have
done so, if I had allowed them time ; but that,
as I perceive you think, is but a poor excuse.
When I reflect upon all the sins that I have
committed in my life, I am astonished at myself
I am indeed. My history is a truly disgraceful
one, and I feel that repentance comes
too late."

Such remarks as these, enunciated in a
feeble voice, between two fits of coughing, put
Genevieve in mind of nothing so much as the
confessions of Reined Fuchs. And indeed
the speaker, reclining in his arm-chair, the
pensive expression of his features belied by a
sly twinkle in the corner of his little blinking
eyes, bore no slight resemblance to that wily
quadruped. Making all allowances for a highly
coloured self-portraiture, designed, no doubt,

chiefly with the object of causing Miss Potts
to shake in her shoes, there could be no
question but that the man was a consummate
rascal ; yet there was something about his
rascality which was not altogether repellent.
Rascality — or, at all events, certain forms of it
would appear to have an occult claim upon
human sympathy. Who, for instance, can read
of the infamous exploits of Reneke Fuchs, to
whom M. Hirsch has just been compared, without
at once ranging himself upon the side of
their hero ? And has not the very word
rogue " come to bear an almost endearing significance
? — while '' roguish " is such a playful,,
innocent sort of adjective that it has all but
fallen into disuse, as applied to adult humanity.
Hirsch, then, when in his more expansive
moods, was far from being a disagreeable companion.
Miss Potts herself owned to a reluctant
interest in this hardened offender, and would
speak of him behind his back with sighing and
groaning and many a reference to the eleventh
hour, and brands plucked from the burning, and
so forth. Genevieve went a step further, and
roundly declared that she liked M. Hirsch very
well as he was. She had taken him under her
especial protection. Ever since that evening
when she had driven him up to Southlands in

her pony-carriage, and when he had been so
inhumanly turned out of doors by her father,
he had been to her in some sort, Hke Touchstone's
Audrey, a poor thing of her own. She
professed to have discovered good points in
his character which were not apparent to the
world at large ; and it is certain that if there
was a soft place in Hirsch's battered old heart,
Miss Gervis had gained possession of it.

When he was alone with her — and that was
no unfrequent occurrence ; for the restless little
Princess was out of doors from morning tonight
— he did not dwell upon his past life, nor
entertain her with a catalogue of crimes committed
on the other side of the Atlantic. He
asked for nothing better than to sit silent, and
listen to her while she practised her violin, and
when she was tired of that, to fall back upon
conversation of a kind entirely different from
the specimen set down above. And now it
must be confessed that there was one topic
upon which he was always ready to talk, and
of which his companion was in no danger of
wearying. Through what channel M. Hirsch
had discovered how matters stood between
Genevieve and Freddy Croft — whether through
Miss Potts, whose inability to keep a secret
was notorious, or through Varna, who was

much vexed at this time by her step-daughter s
discouragement of the advances of M. d'Arblay,
an unexceptionable gentleman with a considerable
fortune and a fine musical ear — signifies
little ; nor did Genevieve make any inquiry as
to the sources of his information when — using,
as he said, the privileges of a man old enough
to be her father — he spoke to her upon the
subject. The truth was that she was too much
rejoiced to hear the sound of Freddy's name
to care very greatly by whom it might happen
to be uttered. M. Hirsch was, perhaps, hardly
the confidant whom she would have chosen in
preference to all others, but he was far better
than no confidant at all ; moreover, in treating
of this delicate matter, he displayed a greater
amount of tact than might have been expected
of him. Upon the question of the abstract
advisability of the match he did not presume
to enter, further than by incidentally expressing
his conviction that neither *' this young Sir
Croft " nor any other man whom he had ever
met was worthy to be the husband of mademoiselle
; he confined himself to gently leading
the conversation on to the subject of England,
to asking Genevieve questions as to the manner
of her life at Southlands, to declaring his personal
admiration of the English as a people,

and his regret that he had never been able to
make himself better acquainted with their
country. In short, he managed, without impertinence,
to give the girl an opportunity of
breaking" the silence which had become well-nigh
intolerable to her, and thus afforded her
many an hour of happiness. It was his way of
showing gratitude for her recognition of an
outcast. And so it came about that something
approaching to a fast friendship sprang up
between these two very dissimilar persons.

Early in the month of June, on one of those
fresh, cloudless mornings which cause the hearts
of those who dwell in cities to hunger and
thirst after a sight of green fields, M. Hirsch
surprised Genevieve by asking her to take a
walk with him. She hesitated a moment; for
Varna, while reserving to herself a liberty of
action which knew no limits, had very rigid
notions as to the rules by which the conduct
of young girls ought to be governed, and it was
doubtful whether she would have considered
even M. Hirsch sufficiently advanced in years
to sanction his appearance in the streets with
her step-daughter, unless under the eye of a
third person.

I will ask Miss Potts whether she would
like to go out," Genevieve said, moving towards
the door.

But HIrsch stopped her with a supplicating
gesture. " Mademoiselle, I implore you ! — She
irritates my nerves, that dear and respectable
Potts ; she has a manner of pronouncing her
Avoids which acts like a magnet upon the worst
side of my nature — not to mention that those
long and bony legs stride over the ground at
a pace which I could never hope to maintain,
with the fragment of lung that remains to me.
Do not refuse me an hour of peace and quiet
in the sunshine. It is the whim of an invalid,
who will not have many more fancies to gratify
on this side of the grave."

Genevieve was not proof against this appeal.
Soon afterwards, she and M. Hirsch had
mounted the Boulevard Malesherbes, had
passed the gilded gates of the Pare Monceaux,
and were strolling along those trim gravel
walks and among those charming, if somewhat
conventional, combinations of foliage and verdure,
rockery and carpet-patterned flower-beds,
which the Republic has inherited from the
Empire. The Pare Monceaux was crowded,
as it commonly is on a fine summer's day.
Children were chasing one another along the
walks ; rosy-cheeked Norman nurses were
seated, knitting and chattering, on the benches
provided by M. Haussmann and his successors;

everywhere were loungers of the true Parisian
hotwgeois type, wandering hither and thither,
Without aim or object, yet not In the least
bored — specimens of that contentedly Idle class
soi petit s rentiej^s to which London possesses no
equivalent. M. HIrsch appeared to enjoy the
whole scene Immensely.

What delicious sunshine ! " he exclaimed.
What a good air ! what a pretty little Arcadia!
The slo^ht of It Is almost enough to make one

o o

feel young and virtuous. If only one did not
know that the streets and houses of this wicked
city were within a stone's throw ! " Then, as if
struck by a sudden Idea — *' If we were to take
a carriage, and drive out to the Bois } " he
hazarded.

But to this new proposition Genevieve demurred
decidedly.

'' What would Varlnka say ? " she asked,
laughing.

Mademoiselle, she will say nothing, for the
sufficient reason that she will know nothing.
Have you forgotten that she is to spend the
whole day with her new friends the Karakoffs
at Merton ? She was driving away as I entered
she and Madame Claud. They are made
for one another, those two. A more delightful
couple for all the purposes of society it would

MATRIMONY.

be difficult to find ; but as for being the husband
of one of them!" M. Hirsch, by way of
ending his sentence, shrugged his shoulders
expressively.

I don't think you would ever have been
in much danger of that fate, M. Hirsch," said
Genevieve, with dignity. For it seemed to her
that her companion was allowing himself a little
too much license of criticism.

He was not in the least offended by this
direct snub. On the contrary, it appeared to
afford him great amusement, and made him laugh
so heartily that he brought on a return of his
cough. He had hailed one of the little victorias
which were creeping along the drive, while he
was speaking, and he was so exhausted after
his paroxysm of coughing that Genevieve could
not, in common humanity, refuse to let him seat
himself in it.

Five minutes later. Miss Gervis was being
driven slowly down the Avenue Rich in a
hired carriage, side by side with the greatest
reprobate in Paris ; and any one of the
Princess Ouranoffs numerous acquaintances
might have witnessed this remarkable spectacle.
None of them, however, did witness it. At
that hour of the day (it was not yet noon) they
were probably only just thinking of getting out

of bed ; and a large proportion of them, being-people
whose movements were governed by
the laws of fashion, had already left Paris.
There was, therefore, no real need for Genevieve
to hold her parasol at such an angle
as to conceal her features from the passers-by ;
although M. Hirsch approved of the precaution,
assuring her that he fully appreciated the
sacrifice which she was making in order to
indulge his selfish whim, and was proportionately
grateful to her. When they reached the Bois,
he directed the coachman to turn away from
that drive beside the lake which is the Parisian
Ladles' Mile, and to follow one of the less-frequented
alleys which lead towards the Pre
Bateman ; and as soon as they were well among
the trees, he called a halt.

'with your permission, mademoiselle," said
he, '' we will get out now, and walk a little way.
Ah ! we are better here than in the Pare Monceaux,
are we not ? We hear no more the perpetual
rattle of the streets ; we have the shade
the green trees — the birds overhead. Could
you not almost fancy yourself in your own home
at Southlands?" (He pronounced the word
Sousselan ; " but it did not sound the less
pleasantly in Genevieve's ears, and the prefix
of 'home" was especially grateful to her.)

VOL. III. D

'' One could walk here all the afternoon, and
not tire," he added.

He tired, however, soon enough, and was
glad to take advantage of a friendly bench to
rest himself upon. Presently he uttered an
exclamation of dismay. '^ Saprisii I what
stupidity ! I have left my purse, with two
thousand francs in it, in the carriage. I must
go and recover it at once. Be so kind as to wait
where you are for a few minutes, mademoiselle ;
I will join you directly."

And M. Hirsch hastened away as fast as his
legs would carry him.

Genevieve had no objection to remaining
where she was. She leant back on the bench,
enjoying the solitude, and the whispering of the
breeze through the branches, and the sunlight
dancing among the young leaves, and all the
delicious sights and sounds of summer ; and if
she did not trace much resemblance between
those recently planted groves and the old oaks
of England, her thoughts were probably not
prevented on that account from straying to the
land that she loved. For the first five minutes
she put M. Hirsch out of her mind altogether;
but when five more elapsed, and he gave no
sign, she became rather uneasy, and at the end
of a quarter of an hour she recollected, with

some alarm, that she had heard a carriage
drlvhig rapidly away immediately after he had
left her. What could have happened ? Had
the coachman discovered the two thousand
francs, and decamped with them, and had M.
HIrsch forgotten all about her, and started in
hot pursuit ? She was taking counsel with
herself as to what she had better do next, when
the crunching of hastily approaching footsteps
made Itself heard upon the gravel, and presently
a form hove in sight which was certainly not
that of INI. HIrsch. Genevieve's heart gave
a great bound and then stood still. Was she
dreaming, or could it possibly be Freddy
Croft who was hurrying up, with both hands
extended, to meet her ?

She was not long kept in doubt. Freddy
Croft Indeed It was, in a very nice new suit
of clothes, with a rose in his buttonhole, and
that jolly little full moon of a face of his beaming
all over with delight.

*' It's me," he said — as though there were
any necessity for making that ungrammatical
announcement.

And here I cannot help breaking oft for a
moment to remark upon the hard fate which
will not permit me to dodge the love-scenes
that are for ever cropping up in the course

of the veracious history upon which I am
engaged. As I observed upon a former
occasion, I am wholly unfitted for this kind
of work, and I should expose myself to the
just scorn and ridicule of my readers, were
I to attempt it. It is true that in connection
with the meeting with which we are now concerned
there are no kissings or embracing
to be recorded — for it is not to be supposed
that Miss Gervis would allow herself to be
embraced by a young man to whom she was
not engaged, and I have the best authority
for stating that Freddy's reverence for this
lady was so great that he would never have
thought of greeting her otherwise than in the
most decorous manner — but of tender words
and fond glances, of reiterated queries and
ardent vows, there was doubtless a sufficient
interchange. And these, if you please, we will
skip.

The colloquy may be taken up at the point
where Genevieve, beginning to recover her
mental balance, requested Freddy to give some
account of himself. "Where do you come
from ? How do you happen to be in Paris ?"
she asked.

Oh, I ran over with another fellow to do
the Grand Prix," replied that ingenuous youth.

*' I mean'' he added, correcting himself, '' I
made that the excuse for coming. You may-guess
whether I hadn't a hope of some better
luck than backing the winner. I thought I
ought to have an excuse of some kind, because
of what you said, you know, about our not
meeting till the two years were up ; but, being
here, I couldn't have gone away without having
one look at you. If the worst had come to the
worst, I meant to have gone boldly and called
upon the Princess, though Claud says the odds
are she would have shown me the door."

'* She would not have done that ; but of
course we should not have been left alone
together. And I don't think I ought to stay
here any longer now. What an extraordinary
piece of good fortune it was that brought us
both to this same spot — of all places in the
world — at the same moment ! After this, I
shall always have a lingering reliance upon
chance."

'* Well — it wasn't altogether chance," Freddy
confessed, with a side-glance of mingled glee
and apprehension.

"Not chance ! what else could it possibly
be ? You cannot have had any idea that I
should be in the Bois this morning ; for I
did not know it myself when I left the house."

I suppose not," said Freddy, much amused.
By George ! what an old dodger ! eh ? "

"What do you mean? Of whom are you
speaking ? " asked Genevieve, a glimmering
of the truth beginning to dawn upon her.

'why, our old friend Rags-and-tatters, to
be sure ! Not that he deserves his name
nowadays. Fur all over him, and a stick with
a great big gold knob at the top — no end of
a swell. Been robbing a bank or something,
I expect. Never mind ! he's a right good
chap ; and if ever he wants a friend, he may
count upon me. You see, I went and looked
up Claud yesterday — jolly little crib he's got.
I say, don't you think Nina has altered for the
worse since her marriage ? "

No," answered Genevieve considering ;
I can't say that I notice any difference in
her. I think she was always — much what she
is now." In fact, no great feeling of amity
subsisted between these two ladies.

*' Hem ! she wasn't over civil to me," Freddy
went on. " Hardly took the trouble to speak
to me. Well, as I was saying, I had a talk with
Claud ; and he was dead against my trying to
see you. Said it wouldn't do, and the Princess
wouldn't like it, and one thing and another.
Altogether, I went away rather down on my

luck, and strolled off to the Boulevard Males-heroes.
I thought there was just a chance of
your looking out of the window, or that perhaps
you might be going out to dinner somewhere,
and that I should see you getting into the
carriage. So I hung about under the trees
there, to the great disgust of your concie7^ge, who
looked at me as if he suspected that I was upto
no good ; and after a bit, out toddled old
Rags. I don't think I should have recognized
him ; but he spotted me directly, and before I
knew where I was, he had got me into his
brougham, and was driving me off to his hotel
to dinner. And a very good dinner he gave
me too. Well ; in the evening, you know, we
got talking about things, and — and the long and
the short of it was that he told me that, if I
would meet him at the restaurant in the Pre
Bateman at twelve o'clock to-day, he would be
able to give me some good news, he hoped.
Which accounts for my being here at this
moment," concluded Freddy complacently.

Genevieve was very properly shocked at the
duplicity of M. Hirsch. She was extremely
angry with him, she declared ; she would never
forgive him for having taken her in as he had
done. But the voice In which this alarming
statement was made seemed to leave room fora

hope that M. Hirsch's offence might ultimately
be condoned.

And now the question Is, how am I to get
home ? Neither you nor M. HIrsch appear to
have thought of that. I suppose the only thing
I can do Is to walk until I meet a fiacre ; and
that will hardly be on this side of the Arc de
Triomphe."

'' Oh, but you are not thinking of going
home yet ! " exclaimed Freddy with a very long
face.

I must. Do you know what time It Is ? "
'' By Jove ! — past two o'clock. I thought I
was getting uncommonly hungry," said Freddy,
innocently. '' But there Isn't the slightest
necessity for your hurrying back. The Princess
Is out at Merton, you know."

'' Did M. HIrsch tell you that too .^"
'' Of course he did. It's only justice to Rags
to say that he's a man who knows what he's
about. Do you know what I wish you would
do?"

Something utterly impossible, most likely."
'' No, It isn't. In fact, I think it would be
very wrong of you to refuse ; for I know you
have taken nothing in the shape of nourishment
this morning, except a cup of coffee and a rolL
and you must be pretty nearly starving by this

time. Now, there is a little restaurant on one
of the islands on the lake — the sort of place
where one would be certain not to meet a soul
one had ever seen before — and they could get
an omelette, or something of that kind, ready
for us there in a few minutes. Don't you think
we might ?''

Certainly not. Genevieve would not hear of
such a thing. However, she allowed herself to
be drawn into a discussion upon the point ; and
the result justified the conclusion of the oft-quoted
proverb of "Chateau qui parle et femme
qui ecoute."

'' Never mind Miss Potts for this once,"
Freddy pleaded. '' Miss Potts is much too
good a fellow to tell tales, even if she finds out
where you have been ; and I don't see why she
should find out. And when shall we have
another day together ? Not for eighteen long
months, perhaps." He ended with an argument
which has always carried a certain degree of
weight with it since the time when the world
began : " No one will ever know."

At length, therefore. Miss Gervis was persuaded
into what cannot be described otherwise
than as a highly incorrect course of procedure ;
and it must, I fear, be added that she has never,
up to this present time of writing, repented properly

of her weakness. For the two hours
which she spent with Freddy on that cockney-find
Httle island were two of the happiest she
had ever known. The restaurant was of that
class at which, on Saturday afternoons, two or
three of the turbulent wedding-parties so dear
to the Parisian proletariat are apt to be encountered
; but as it was the middle of the
week, our friends had the whole place to themselves,
and were served in the open air by a
greasy and obsequious waiter, who, to Freddy s
huge delight, addressed Genevieve as 'madame''
at every other word. The omelette with which
they were regaled was burnt, the cutlets were
tough, and the wine was execrable ; but neither
of them took any heed of these small drawbacks.
They pronounced everything delightful, even
down to the cocks and hens of the establishment,
which gathered round their table, and
fought for the bread-crumbs that Genevieve
scattered amongst them. Then, the bill having
been paid, and the greasy waiter tipped with a
liberality which caused him to stare and grin
from ear to ear, they wandered up into the
pine-woods ; and there, seating himself upon
the dry ground at Genevieve's feet, Freddy
related to her his experiences of the last six
months. He told her how he had missed her

through every hour of the day ; how he had
written continually to Claud, and had received
only an occasional and meagre acknowledgment
of his letters in reply ; how he had been trying
hard to fit himself to be her constant associate ;
how he had interested himself in the welfare of
his tenantry, introduced improvements into the
management of the home farm, and devoted
a stated portion of his time to the study of
standard works.

'' I had to drop poetry, though," he confessed,
with a look of comical penitence. " It was no
go. That sort of thing is altogether above me.
Scott's the only poet I can stand. I gave them
all a fair trial too ; but when I got to Wordsworth's
' Excursion,' I felt it was quite hopeless,
and I threw up the sponge."

Mill's '' Political Economy," to which he had
next had recourse, as being presumably an unimaginative
composition, had likewise proved
too hard a nut for him to crack ; but, on the
other hand, he had found that he was able to
read Macaulay's " Essays " with pleasure and
profit. '' I can do very well with Macaulay,"
he said, in a tone of modest exultation.

How many times afterwards Genevieve lived
through that sunny afternoon again, and felt
the warm breeze on her cheek, and smelt the

resinous fragrance of the pines, and saw those
frank blue eyes and that joyous, boyish face
upturned to hers ! Faces of that kind, which
have no Hues or traces of care upon them,
usually belong to selfish people ; and selfishness
at all events when it practically affects our
own comfort — is a hideous thing; yet merry
faces are pleasant to look upon than sad
ones ; and it is certain that Genevieve would
not have wished her admirer's to be altered
in any particular. She did not say much. It
made her perfectly happy to sit and listen to
Freddy's loquacity, which never stood in need
of more than the slenderest encouragement.
He gave her full information of all that had
taken place in Lynshire since her departure :
he told her how there had been '' no end of
a rumpus " in the Lynchester household (cause
not assigned) ; how Lady Lynchester had
sought the protection of her own family, and
had only been induced at last to return to her
husband through the intervention of Lord
Courtney, who had undertaken, for the credit
of the county, to smooth matters over ; how
Mr. Flemyng had given a lecture, in the town-hall
at Beachborough, upon the Antiquity of
Man, in the course of which he had fallen foul
of the Book of Genesis and Admiral Bagshawe,

insomuch that the latter had loudly denounced
him as an anti-Christian agitator, and had
actually threatened to drag him from the platform
; how General Blair had had a stroke,
but was recovering ; how Miss Pennefather had
been menaced with an action for slander by
some maligned person ; and a great deal more
in the same strain. He was also able to give
her the latest news of Mr. Gervis, with whom
he was surprised to hear that she held no
direct communication. Mr. Gervis, it appeared,
had been twice at Southlands for a
day or two during the winter, and had been
last seen in London, "looking pretty dismal,"
Freddy said. '' I expect he don't find it very
good fun living all by himself. When we're
married, we'll often have him down at Croft,
and get a lot of other antediluvians to meet
him and cheer him up a bit."

When they were married ! It may be
imagined what a wide field for plans and
projects was opened up by the bare mention
of this prospective felicity, and how little
account either of them took of the frying
moments. Not until the sun's rays had acquired
a perceptible declination did Miss
Gervis awake to a full sense of her position.
She consulted her watch, and gave a cry of

dismay. There was just, and only just, time
enough for her to reach home before the dinner
hour. Somewhat sobered, Freddy hailed the
little boat which had brought them to the
island some hours before, and once on the other
side, they hurried along the road towards Paris
as fast as they could walk, till, by good luck,
they encountered an empty fiacre. Genevieve
jumped in, and, after a brief leave-taking, was
driven away, remembering, as most people doat
such times, a hundred things that she had
left unsaid, a hundred questions that she had
left unasked, and too much occupied with
memories and regrets to think with apprehension
of the scene which in all probability
awaited her in the Boulevard Malesherbes.

In the drawing-room she found M. Hirsch,
seated in his accustomed place and reading an
evening paper. He did not look up, as she
drew nearer to him ; nor did Miss Potts, who
entered the room from the opposite door at
this moment, and who wore an aspect of
portentous gravity, ask her any question as
to how she had spent the day. This significant
silence prepared Genevieve to some
extent for what was coming, and she was not
surprised when Varna dashed in, like a little
steam-engine, dragging her long silk train
behind her.

Genevieve — wretched girl ! where have you
been ? Tell me the truth ; I insist upon It ! "

There was no occasion to Insist. The
accused, who did not know how to prevaricate,
told the truth unhesitatingly, and with a coolness
which visibly startled her small audience.

'' I have been in the Bois de Bologna with
Sir Frederick Croft," said she. Neither more
nor less than that.

The Princess cast her eyes up to the ceiling,
clasped her hands, and let them fall, backs
uppermost, before her, with a tragic gesture
worthy of Mdlle. Thomery herself, while she
addressed a succession of intermittent apostrophes
to space.

Why Is It that misfortunes like this happen
to me, and to no one else in the world ? . . .
Who would ever have believed It ! . . . When
Nina told me that that man was here, and
warned me to be careful, did I not laugh ? — did
I not say that I would answer for Genevieve
as I would answer for myself ? . . . Ah ! this
is a lesson to me — a cruel lesson ! . It Is
written, then, that I am never to be able to
trust any one ! "

These plaintive ejaculations eliciting no rejoinder,
the speaker made a sudden descent
from the abstract to the specific, and assailed

Genevieve with a torrent of reproaches. How
could she have the face to stand there, looking
if she was positively proud of what she had
done ? Was she aware that she had disgraced
herself? Yes; disgrace was the word. If
this terrible story became known, it would
never be forgotten — of that she might be sure !
And the deceit of it — that was the worst of all
the deliberate deceit of It !

At this juncture M. Hirsch raised himself a
little in his chair, holding up his hand, as if to
impose silence ; and to Genevieve's no small
surprise, Varna suddenly stopped short.

'' Dear Princess," said M. Hirsch in his most
honeyed accents, '' we can all make allowances
for your natural vivacity ; and it is easy to
understand that, being yourself Incapable of
deceit, it must be especially painful to you to
be deceived. Only, it would perhaps be well,
before saying any more, to convince yourself
of who it is that has deceived you. The sole
culprit, madame, is the unworthy individual
who now sits before you. It was I who hatched
this execrable plot, alone and unaided ; it was
I who gave a rendezvous to Sir Croft in the
Bois, and who inveigled mademoiselle into
driving there with me. It is I who humbly
congratulate myself upon my success, and who

am prepared to received the full brunt of your
wrath. Scold, my dear madame — scold to your
heart's content. Do not spare me ; you know
that I have the hide of a rhinoceros."

If anything could have exceeded the impudence
of this speech, it would have been the
manner of its delivery. M. Hirsch's little eyes
were twinkling with malice ; his chin was thrust
forward ; his lips were drawn back in a jeering
ofrin which covered his cheeks with innumerable
small wrinkles ; his whole air was that of a man
who knows how to provoke a quarrel and is
determined to seek one. Varna, however,
for some reason or other, did not choose to
take up the challenge.

'rit is a waste of breath to scold people like
you," she said, with a short laugh. '' You do
mischief for the sake of being malevolent. If
your object was to annoy me, you have the
satisfaction of knowing that you have succeeded.
It is a matter of course that you should never
have considered what a much worse injury you
might be doing to Genevieve than to me."

Therewith she turned her back upon him,
and suddenly lapsing into tenderness, flew at
Genevieve, embraced her, wept over her, and
declared that, if she had made use of any
unkind words, it was only because she had

VOL. III. E

wished her dearest child to reaHze the terrible
risk to which she had exposed herself.

Never deceive me again ! — anything but
that ! " she cried, with heartrending simplicity.
'' Wound me, disappoint me in any way that
you please ; but at least let there be no concealments
between us. And another time, do
not allow yourself to be persuaded into a rash
action without first consulting one who loves
you more than any stranger can do." And
Genevieve, who was really very much ashamed
of herself, readily gave the desired promise.

Under cover of this affecting reconciliation
M. Hirsch quietly withdrew; and shortly afterwards,
Varna, who was going to dine out,
and had already kept the carriage twenty
minutes at the door, rushed back to her room
to wash away the traces of tears from her eyes
and to powder her flushed cheeks.

Then Miss Potts felt It Incumbent upon her
to take up her parable ; but Miss Potts's
lectures were never of a very formidable description,
and Genevieve may safely be left to
receive from this faithful ally the reproof which
her behaviour unquestionably merited.

CHAPTER III.

CLOUDS IN THE RUE d' AMSTERDAM.

One afternoon during the preceding autumn,
when the Princess had been sittings on the
sands at Trouvllle, her attention had been
arrested by the movements of one of those
little beetles known to children as the devil's
coach-horses, which, after the manner of Its
kind, was painfully scaling cliffs and precipices
of sand, only to lose Its foothold at the summit
and roll back Into the abyss from which It had
started, carrying a small avalanche with It.
After watching these miniature labours of
Sisyphus for some minutes, the Princess had
grown Irritated at the spectacle of so much
wasted energy, and had flicked the ugly little
animal Impatiently away with the tip of her
parasol. " To think that there are such stupid
beasts In creation ! " she had exclaimed. 'ris
It not enough to make all one's muscles ache
only to look at them ? "

LIBRARY

'' So little sympathy with an innocent fellow-labourer,
madame?" M. Hirsch had retorted,
with his malicious grin. *' For my part, I
have met with ladies in the world who much
resembled beetles — who were not less blind,
not less persistent, and whose exertions were
often quite as fatiguing and ridiculous to
watch."

The Princess had stared and laughed, not
perceiving that it was of her that the fable was
narrated ; for assuredly blindness was the last
defect that she would have attributed to herself.
Had she been able, for a moment, to see
herself as M. Hirsch and others saw her, she
would, perhaps, have been somewhat saddened
during that moment ; though it may be doubted
whether the lesson would have had any lasting
influence upon her. It was her habit to form
determinations rapidly, without the smallest
prior consideration, and to stick to them doggedly,
pertinaciously, until she either got what
she wanted, or lost it beyond hope of recovery.
That she thus undertook many a predestined
and inevitable failure was of no importance to
her comfort, since she never knew, nor could
be convinced, that failure was inevitable ; and
her system had its advantages, in that it saved
her from the wear and tear of reflection, and

from the misgivings with which more impressionable
persons are apt to be afflicted.

Thus, having made up her mind that Genevieve
was to marry M. d'Arblay, or, failing
him, some equally suitable individual, her resolution
was not for a moment shaken by Freddy
Croft's flying visit to Paris and the practical
proof afforded thereby that her step-daughter's
affections were not yet free. It was a contretemps
certainly ; but Varna seldom wasted
regrets upon the past, and the only effect produced
upon her by this unlucky episode was to
cause her to hasten her departure for Banners
de Bigotry, where she had previously announced
her intention of spending the summer months,
and whither M. d'Arblay, whose parents inhabited
a chateau In the neighbourhood of that
watering-place, had already betaken himself.

And so there soon came a day on which the
Princess, accompanied by her whole household.
Including M. HIrsch, and followed by a van-load
of baggage, bade farewell to her beloved
Paris for a season, and was borne away towards
the Lyons terminus. Claud and Nina, who
had promised to see the last of the travellers,
were waiting on the steps as the little procession
drove up ; and the leave-taking which
subsequently took place between two of the

ladles in the waiting-room was of a most
moving description. The Princess embraced
her friend and ally repeatedly, squeezed out
a tear or two as a last tribute of affection, and
lamented — doubtless with perfect sincerity —
that she could not take Paris to the Pyrenees
with her.

*' Why do you not come too ? " she cried.
'ewe should be quite a family party, and you
would enliven our solitude in those wilds.
Claud would have as much leisure as he
wanted for writing, and you and I would
make up riding-parties in the mountains. One
does not lead a gay life at Banners, it is true ;
but the inise-e7i- scene is enchanting — quite what
one sees in the picture-books. Guides in short
jackets and scarlet bursts, who ride before you,
cracking their whips, and old women carrying
distaffs, and waterfalls, and glaciers, and flocks
of sheep, and the rest. As soon as I am a
little settled, I shall begin to look out for rooms
for you. Yes ; decidedly you must come."

But there were good and sufficient reasons,
of which the Princess can hardly have been
ignorant, to prevent Nina from visiting the
Pyrenees, and, indeed, from leaving Paris at
all. Clouds were drifting up over the once
smiling skies of the Rue amsterdam — clouds

of difficulty, clouds of debt, which every day
assumed a more and more menacing aspect,
and charged the domestic atmosphere with
electricity. Any one who had watched this
newly married pair during the weeks that had
followed the downfall of Ainoiir et Amitid,
who had observed the anxious politeness that
marked their intercourse, the unwillingness
which they displayed to be left alone together,
and the apprehensive glances which they exchanged
from time to time, would have had
no difficulty in guessing that each of them was
in mortal terror of letting fall the spark which
might bring about an explosion. Things had,
in fact, come to such a pass that Claud trembled
at the sound of the door-bell, and could never
open the envelopes that lay beside his plate
on the breakfast-table without a sickening
sensation of dread. It was not only that
household expenses were heavy and apparently
not to be reduced ; but bills of the kind known
as "small," but which, in his case, only seemed
to deserve the epithet as applied to the value
of the articles charged for, had lately been
pouring in upon him In alarming numbers.
There were bills for gloves, bills for boots
and shoes, bills for perfumery, and one several
pages long from the hair-dresser, who, it

appeared, had been summoned, six evenings
out of the seven during the past winter, to
arrange Nina's golden-brown locks, and who,
as Claud ruefully remembered, had been used
to raise a most unpleasant smell of burning
over his operations. Claud paid them all, not
only without remonstrance, but without even
mentioning them to his wife. It was, indeed,
impossible that she should have defrayed all
these debts out of her own slender allowance,
and he could not bring himself to reproach
her for having incurred them. Besides, what
would have been the use of reproaches ? What
was done could not now be helped, and it was
best that he should bear the worry of it alone.
He cherished a hope that with the end of the
ball-giving season some curtailment of expenditure
would become possible ; and in the meantime,
being unable to maintain a cheerful
demeanour, he was glad that his wife should
spend the greater part of her days with Varna
and enjoy herself while she could. " Let us
eat and drink, for tomorrow we die," he had
said to himself, with a melancholy smile.

But now Varna was gone, and Nina's
occupation with her. Seed-time also was past,
and harvest at hand. No wonder our young
couple drove away from the station with very

serious faces, and did not find much to say
to one another on the way home.

Paris in the end of June is like Oxford
in the Long Vacation : nobody ought to be
there, unless he is in want of a decent excuse
for blowing his brains out, or is so immersed
in study that it doesn't signify to him where
he is."

It was from Nina that ennui and lassitude
drew this sentiment, one sultry morning about
ten days after the Princess's departure. Claud
looked up from his writing, and sighed ; which
only served to increase her long pent-up
irritation.

"Oh, it is all very well for you," she said.
You have something to do."

Undaunted by his misadventure, Claud was
once more busily engaged upon a play. He
had also, at this time, found employment upon
the staff of a small newspaper, for which he
wrote articles at I forget what infinitesimal
rate of payment. It was, in truth, less for
the sake of remuneration than for that of work
that he kept up his connection with it. He
met Nina's eyes with a look of puzzled concern.

I'm afraid you must find this sort of life
almost intolerable," he said; "but perhaps it
won't last long. If I have any luck, I ought

to be making money by this time next year,
and then we shall be able to go away, like
other people. I wish I could think of some
amusement for you now ; but really I don't
know what there is."

'there are Musard's concerts in the evenings,"
suggested Nina. " It isn't wildly exciting
; but at least one sees human beings
there ; and anything is better than sitting at
home, with one's hands before one."

Hem ! You see, the evenings are my
best time for writing."

It will be perceived that Mrs. Gervis's
vision of conjugal felicity had been definitively
abandoned by this time.

''Oh, how I hate writing!" she exclaimed,
with a sudden outburst of revolt. "How I
detest the sound of a pen scratching over the
paper ! I wish there were no pens in the
world, and no paper or ink either ! I'm sure
nobody would lose much. No, I don't mean
that," she added hastily, coming closer to him
and passing her hand lightly over his hair.
Poor, tired old fellow ! it is horrid of me to
grumble, when you are working so hard. But
it is dull."

It certainly was. All Nina's acquaintances
were away ; no one came to see her, nor was

there any one whom she could visit. The
southern aspect of the Httle flat in the Rue
amsterdam, which had prepossessed its
occupants so much in its favour in the wintertime,
rendered it hot and stuffy now ; and to
sit all the day long behind closed shutters,
with nothing to do but to read novels, is, it
must be admitted, a regimen calculated to
depress the spirits of the most cheerful of
people. It is hardly surprising that Nina's
thoughts should have reverted occasionally
with something of regret to the shady lawn
at the Moated House and her hammock under
the cedar-tree, and to the neighbours of whose
society she had once professed herself so weary.
There are, however, worse things in the
world than dulness, as Claud discovered, when
he received, that same evening, an intimation
from his bankers that he had overdrawn to the
extent of four hundred pounds odd, together
with a request that he would restore the balance
at his earliest convenience. And then, since
misfortunes never come singly, he was informed
that a person wished to speak to him — which
person, on being ushered in, announced himself,
with many bows and apologies, as the
representative of the upholsterers from whom
Nina's carpets and sofas had been ordered six

months before, and stated that he was instructed
by his principals to Invite monsieur to regulate
his little account. This was precisely what
Claud had been dreading for some time past.
In the beelnnlnof of the wear he had received
his upholsterer's bill— which, it is needless to
say, surpassed his utmost apprehensions In
amount — and, finding it too painful an object
for contemplation, had thrust it away out of
sight, and, as far as possible, out of mind.
Latterly, however, being tormented continually
by visions of creditors, known and unknown, he
had asked himself more than once what In the
world he should do if these people were to
press for payment. And now the worst had
come ; his fears were realized. There stood
the man, smiling and deferential, the first dun
Claud had had to face in his life, and this novel
experience was so disagreeable to him that he
displayed his agitation in a most injudicious
manner.

Nevertheless, he made a feeble effort at
taking up a high tone. He was very much
surprised, he said, at being annoyed In this
way. As it happened, it would be rather
inconvenient to him to pay so large a sum at
that particular moment. He should have
imagined that the recommendation of the

Princess Ouranoff would have been a sufficient
guarantee of his solvency. Surely it was very
unusual to make these demands within such a
short time as six months after the execution
of the order.

The man interrupted him. " Pardon, monsieur
1 not at all unusual. It is the invariable
custom of the firm to present all accounts for
payment half-yearly." (He might have added
that this custom obtained only with reference
to needy dwellers on fourth storeys.) '' With
old customers, and families who honour us with
extensive orders, we naturally deal differently ;
but at Paris there is such a constant coming
and going, so many strangers spend a few
months here and then go away — often, alas !
without leaving an address behind them — •
monsieur will conceive that it has been necessary
for us to adopt a strict rule."

Poor Claud did not at all understand how
to deal with this importunate person. " And
supposing that I cannot comply with your
rule ? " he asked.

'*■ In that case But I permit myself to

hope that no such emergency will arise."

'' Never mind your hope," said Claud ; " supposing
it does arise ? "

** Man Diei, monsieur, we are not more disposed

to give away our property than other
people. In the last instance we should be
compelled, most reluctantly, to resort to legal
measures."

This was Indeed terrible. 'well," said
Claud, after a pause, during which he had
had time to draw an agonizing mental picture
of himself in the bankruptcy court, '' you had
better tell your master that I will call upon
him shortly. He is putting me to a good deal
of trouble ; but he will get his money."

The man apologized profusely. Monsieur
would comprehend that he was only a subordinate
; his duty was simply to obey orders.
Might he mention a date for monsieur's visit ?

'' We will say a fortnight hence," answered
Claud firmly. " I told you before that I had
not the sum by me at this moment." And he
was much relieved when this postponement
was acceded to without protest.

Having thus contrived to materially damage
his credit, he got rid of his unwelcome visitor.

Half an hour afterwards Nina found him
seated, with his head In his hands, the picture
of mute despair, and had much ado to repress
her laughter when she heard what was the
matter. " My dear boy," she exclaimed, " you
are as simple as a baby ! Do you really

O

believe that people discharge their debts twice
a year ? Why, one might as well pay over the
counter at once. The best thing you can dois
to go down to this man's shop tomorrow
morning, and tell him that, if he has the
impudence to bother you before this time next
year, you will never employ him again."

But Claud shook his head despondently.
'' It is all very well for people who have money
in the bank to be plucky," said he ; " but when
one can't pay, one becomes a coward in spite
of oneself I know I shall have to meet this
bill somehow ; but how is more than I. can

image.

Well," said Nina, after a moment, *' if you
are determined to pay — though I do think it
is demoralizing to tradesmen to treat them ir.
that way, and hardly fair upon other people —
still, if you are determined, there is a means
of doing it, you know, and a very simple
one."

Claud stared, and asked, 'what means, in the
name of goodness ? "

You midst write to Mr. Gervis, and ask
him to help us out. I am sure he would."

'' And I am perfectly sure that he would

not."

"Then I don't see anything for it but the

workhouse. But, after all, why pay ? Why
not remain in debt ? It doesn't hurt."

She was leaning against the wainscot beside
the open window, plucking dead leaves from
the plants that stood there, and watching them
flutter down into the street below. Something
in the utter indifference of her voice and
attitude stung Claud into an unusual warmth
of retort.

'' Doesn't hurt ! " he repeated ; " but it does
hurt — it hurts horribly ! Is it possible that you
don't feel the degradation of having to go to a
shopkeeper, hat in hand, and beg for time ? "

Nina turned her pretty face towards him
with an odd look, shaking her head slightly.
'' I don't feel anything of the kind," she said.
I don't even know what you mean. Something
wanting in me, I suppose. It is just
what I have known from the first — you are
too good for the likes of me, and now you
are beginning to find it out. It is a thousand
pities that I let you marry me."

'from the moment that you think so, of
course it is so," returned Claud, who was too
much hurt to have complete mastery over his
tongue.

Nina did not answer immediately ; she had
resumed her occupation of pulling off the leaves,

and casting them Idly Into the air. 'rit can't
be helped, though," she remarked at length.
And then, after a break, " Claud ! "

nell."

Don't you think It is about time for us to
go back to England, and make It up with our
relations, and partake of fatted calf? Papa
Is quite ready to kill his. In fact, he has killed
it already. I heard from him this morning."

She felt in her pocket, and produced a letter,
for which Claud held out his hand silently.
They had not yet passed out of that early
stage of matrimony in which letters addressed
to either husband or wife are held to be common
property. Nina relinquished this one — not
without a slight movement of hesitation.

It was a long, not unkindly epistle, couched
in Mr. Flemyng's customary pompous language.
The upshot of It was that, so long as he had a
house to call his own, his daughter would be
welcome to use It as her home ; that she was
greatly missed by the whole household, and
that he hoped that, when she came, she would
make a long stay. Lynshire, he was sure,
would be a pleasant place of residence than
Paris, at all events until the autumn. Two
things struck Claud, as he perused this composition
: in the first place, that it was an

VOL. III. F

obvious answer, not a spontaneous invitation ;
in the second place, that there was singularly-little
question of his existence in connection
with the matter. '' I shall be delighted to see
you — and your husband too, if he is inclined to
take a holiday, and if his literary avocations
permit of his doing so," Mr. Flemyng wrote.
He handed the letter back to his wife without
a word, looking at her rather gravely. There
was a faint flush on her cheeks.

'' Yes," she said, answering his unspoken
question, '' I wrote to him. I thought you
wouldn't mind ; and — and it is so hot and so
dull here. And now there is this bother about
money, it is all the more desirable that we
should make ourselves scarce for a time, and
economize. Will you come ? "

I think not," answered Claud, with a somewhat
grim smile. " I have my work to do here,
and I could not well leave it — not to speak of
the objections which some of our tradesmen
might raise to losing sight of me. But I see
no reason why you should not go. It is certainly,
as you say, very desirable that we
should economize, and there is no doubt at all
about its being hot and dull in Paris. You had
better write to your father, and say that you
will join him in a few days."

If he expected Nina to protest that she could
not go to England without him ; if he thought
she would feel that there was a certain cowardice
in effecting her own escape and leaving him
alone to battle with the enemy, he was mistaken.
She jumped at his suggestion with rather cruel
alacrity ; her face broke out into smiles and
dimples.

Oh, how nice of you ! " she exclaimed. " I
was afraid you would make difficulties. What
time is it ? Shall I save the post if I write at
once ? "

She opened her blotting-book, and began to
scribble off a note, talking all the time. "It
will be so much the best plan — we really
couldn't have gone on much longer as we have
been doing lately."

"No; I really don't think we could," said
Claud, drily.

When I am gone, you will be able to live
ever so much more cheaply. And after a time,
when you are not quite so busy, you must runover
too, and take a rest. Don't you long to
see the sea again ? We will go out pawning,
as we used to do, when you come, and we will
play lawn-tennis and have lots of fun. It will
be just like last year. Oh, what an age ago all
that seems now ! "

Her high spirits lasted throughout the evening;
her tongue wagged incessantly. Would
Mr. Gervis be at Southlands ? she wondered.
If so, she would see him, and make a conquest
of him forthwith. He could not be such an
old wretch as to let them starve, when he was
so rich himself, and when Claud had been
working so hard to earn a living. What a
nuisance money was, to be sure ! *' Do you
know, I really thought we were going to have
a serious quarrel this afternoon," she said
once.

Claud tried to laugh. He was deeply
offended, but he was too proud to show that he
was so ; or, if he did show that he was so, she
did not notice it. He watched her and listened
to her with amazement. It seemed to him that
she had been suddenly changed by some malign
enchantment. Was this the same Nina whom
he had wooed in the Beachborough woods, and
who had declared, only a few short months ago,
that no two people could be more happy than
he and she ? He could hardly believe that she
could really be overjoyed at the prospect of
leaving him. But then he did not know how
many weary hours of boredom she had had to
endure.

At eleven o'clock she went off to bed, still

jubilant, leaving Claud to devote another two
hours or so to work, according to his custom.
He sat up, that evening, longer than usual ; but
contemporary literature did not profit by his
vigil. Facts, not fiction, engrossed all his
thoughts — facts, supported by figures, and
extenuated by no grateful illusion of hope.
Striving by every imaginable means, through
those doleful night-watches, to make a pint pot
contain a quart measure, Claud was brought,
as one result of this vain struggle, to acknowledge
that Nina had been right, and that it was
far better that she should leave Paris for a time.
Another, and an even less palatable conviction
forced upon him, was that she had been right in
this also, that he must apply to his father for
help. Beggary or bankruptcy — such were the
two horns of the dilemma between which our
unfortunate hero found himself placed. I suppose
that most people so situated would have
chosen the former alternative. If so, Claud
only cast in his lot with the majority ; but the
doing of it was a bitter pill for him to swallow.
About two o'clock in the morning he
seized a sheet of note-paper, and, in a sort of
angry despair, dashed ofT the following laconic
missive —

*true d' Amsterdam, Paris, 29th Jamie.

Dear Governor,

I have come to immeasurable
grief. I have written a play which has been
all but hissed off the stage ; I have overdrawn
every shilling of my next half-year's allowance,
and, as far as I can make out, I owe at least
as much again. Altogether, it will take about
;soo to set me straight. Will you advance
me the money } It is possible that I may be
able to repay you by instalments ; but I dare
not make any promise, for everything goes
askew with me. I haven't the face to add
anything more. Please let me have a line to
say Yes or No.

*' Your affectionate son,

*' Claud Gervis."

Claud wrote this note at a great pace, as
timorous people, who doubt their own resolution,
take a dose of castor-oil, and without
reading it over, put it into an envelope, addressed
and stamped it. Having done this, he
retired to bed, and, let us hope, to sleep. The
letter was despatched in due course, and, notwithstanding
Claud's expressed conviction that
nothing would come of it, we may be sure that
he knew very well which was the earliest post

that could bring him a reply, and was not a
little disappointed when none came. The disappointment
recurred the next day, and the
next, and every day. Claud fell into that habit
which is said to bring no luck with it, and
which unquestionably entails much discomfort,
of watching for the arrival of the postman.
Twice in every twenty-four hours he suffered
agonies of suspense if that functionary was a
little behind his usual time, of despair if he
passed the door, or, worse still, left a packet
of letters, among which was not the one which
should contain the awaited sentence.

It was indeed as a prisoner at the bar that
Claud regarded himself — arraigned before the
judgment-seat of one who bore the character of
being impervious to appeals for pity. He knew
that Mr. Gervis seldom went back from his decisions
; he remembered, only too distinctly,
that he had been warned that ^700 a year, and
no more, was what he had to expect ; but he
also knew that his father's heart was less hard
than was commonly supposed, and he felt that
the only hope before him lay in the chance of
his having touched it. As for paying the upholsterer
s bill without assistance, it was out of
the question. Things were even worse with
him than he had supposed. What little cash

he had In hand would be required by Nina for
her journey ; he did not know where to seek
for money-lenders, nor how to transact business
with those gentry, when found ; and even were
he to have recourse to the extreme measure of
sending every stick in his possession to the
Mont-de-PieU, the sum realized would fall far
short of that required.

During these sombre days Nina was gaily
making the necessary preparations for her
move. She was not in reality quite so unfeeling
as her conduct seemed to imply ; but to
sympathize with her husband in such troubles
as were then harassing him was beyond the
range of her powers. At the bottom of her
heart she felt an amused contempt, not indeed
for the man, but for the absurd notions which
he had taken up. To her it was no new sensation
to be dunned. To her Claud s fears appeared
purely chimerical and his scruples
Quixotic — the sort of scruples which artists and
poets and such people might be expected to
feel, but which were wholly out of place in
dealings with a hard-headed and selfish world.
Howbeit, she kept her thoughts to herself, endeavouring
only to cheer up the disconsolate
Claud with frequent allusions to the good time
coming, when they would go out yachting in

Beachborough Bay, and ride across the downs
to Lynchester, and divert themselves as of yore.
And in the end she did succeed in so far infecting
him with her own good spirits that his anger
passed away, and he ceased to blame her for
desiring a holiday. Neither of them very well
understood the other ; but perhaps, of the two,
he understood her better, at this time, than she
did him.

A morning came at last on which Claud
found himself walking sadly away from the
Northern station, with Nina's last words,
'' Mind you come soon," still ringing in his
ears. Did she want him to come soon ? She
had cried a little before saying good-bye ; she
had even gone so far as to express some rather
tardy compunction at leaving him. Yet Claud
could not help mentally comparing her departure
to the flight of a bird from its cage. He
went back to his deserted rooms, where the
doors all stood open, where the empty drawers
were dragged out, and the floor was still strewn
with scraps of packing-paper. The bowie, who,
with the instinct of her class, had discovered
that something was amiss, and suspected a
quarrel — for which, in the nature of things,
monsieur must be to blame — stared at him with
inquisitive and not over-friendly eyes. Perhaps

it was to punish him for his supposed misconduct
that she served him with a cold breakfast
and filled his card ati lait with blacks. It was
horribly lonely. The bird was flown, her pleasant
chirping silenced, and who could tell when
he might hear it again ? According to all appearance,
he would ere long have no cage to
put her into.

And now Claud fell into a state of apathy
which was a mere waiting for the inevitable
crash. He laid aside his new play, finding that
his imagination refused to answer to the spur,
and although he did some mechanical work for
the newspaper with which he was connected, he
would have been puzzled to say, an hour afterwards,
what it was that he had written about.
He has, in fact, since assured me that he
recollects next to nothing of this trying part of
his life, and does not care to talk about it.

It was the tenth day after that on which he
had written to his father, and he had given up
all hope of receiving a reply, when a letter
addressed in Mr. Gervis's precise little handwriting
was delivered to him. He tore it open
and his heart died within him when he found
that it contained no cheque. But this was the
letter.

Yacht Siren Plymouth, 7 th July.

"My dear Claud,

*' Your note has been forwarded tome.
I had heard that the Parisians had declined
to crown you with laurels, and was sorry
for it ; though I do not see the slightest reason
to doubt the accuracy of their discrimination.
Where the deuce did you find a manager to
accept your piece ? When I next go to Paris
I shall be glad if you will introduce me to that
person : it is always comforting to meet with a
brother fool. That I am a fool is a fact that
has long been patent to myself, and I observe
signs of its being not altogether a secret to
others ; but in order to remove any lingering
scepticism that may exist upon the point, I
have just ordered ^800 to be paid in to your
bankers.

*' I understand that your wife is on a visit to
that intellectual father of hers. For this and
other reasons, I propose to steer clear of Beach-borough
for the present.

*' I am suffering from an attack of rheumatism
which makes me long to flay some one alive ;
and the sole victim at hand is Evans, upon
whom my bitterest sarcasms produce no effect
whatsoever. It has occurred to me that, under
existing circumstances, you would hardly feel

justified in resenting any amount of refined
cruelty ; and I therefore have it in my mind to
get you on board this ship, and take you for a
cruise. Let me have a note to say whether this
will suit your arrangements, and whether I shall
pick you up at Cherbourg or at Havre.

Yours,

V. G."

When Claud had finished reading the above
communication, he burst out into a laugh which
was not unlike a sob. " Dear old governor ! "
he exclaimed aloud. " after all, there is no one
like him in the world ! " Go to him ? — of course
he would oro to him. He had understood Mr.
Gervis's tacit appeal. '' And he shall bully me
to his heart's content ! " cried Claud. " Only I
know he won't. He'll heap coals of fire on my
head. Where's my cheque-book ? — where's
that ruffian's bill ? Oh, wasn't it worth all the
infernal torture I have been through to find
out what a dear, good fellow that governor of
mine is ! "

To do Claud justice, Mr. Gervis's letter had
made him quite as happy as his ;soo. He
had never been able to forgive himself for the
deception which he had practised upon his
father ; memories of bygone days had risen up

in perpetual accusation against him, and the
breach brought about by his marriage between
him and the whimsical personage who, all his
life long, had been as much a friend and a
brother as a father to him, had caused him many
and many a secret pang. What did he care if
the future were still somewhat obscured by
mists ? What did it matter to him that, when
all outstanding liabilities should have been discharged,
there could only remain to his credit a
matter of a hundred pounds or so upon which
to support life for the last six months of the
year ? He was free ; he had his pen ; now that
he was alone, he could live upon almost nothing.
He walked up and down the room, hardly able
to contain himself for satisfaction. He longed
to tell somebody of his good fortune. If he
had not been too much afraid of the crabbed old
servant who ruled his establishment, he would
have rung for her, and presented her with the
price of a new gown there and then. In the
fulness of his joy, he broke out into song —

Mes amis, la terre est a moi.
J'ai de quoi
Vivre en roi,
Si Eclat me tente.
Les honneurs me sont devotes ;
J'ai cinquante eus,
J'ai cinquante eus,
J'ai cinquante eus de rente ! "

In the midst of this triumphal chant somebody
who had knocked twice without obtaining any
answer thrust a bullet head and a large, good-humoured
countenance through the doorway.
The head was presently followed by a body of
noble proportions.

*' Eh ! eh ! " ejaculated the Intruder, with an
air of comical bewilderment ; '' It seems that adversity
raises our spirits here. Sapristi, what
an original ! "

'' What, Polnsot ! Is that you ? Look here — ■
just read this letter, will you ? No, you can't
read It ; I'll translate It. There's a father for
you ! do you think there are many of that kind ?
Ah, but you don't know how I have treated
him, and what he has saved me from."

*' Tiens, tiens, Hens ! " muttered M. Polnsot.
'' So we possess a benevolent father with an
open purse, do we ? And I who came here,
flattering myself that I was about to act the
good Samaritan ! Don't look alarmed ; I was
not going to take any liberties ; but from
rumours that reached me, I fancied that you
might be salad of rather more remunerative employment
than that of writing for Le Petit
Voyou ; and the long and the short of it is that
I am the bearer of an offer to you from the
editor of a paper which Is able to pay Its contributors
at a reasonable rate."

Here M. Polnsot named a journal of established
reputation, and explained to Claud what
would be the nature of the work required of
him and the amount of profit which he might
expect to derive from his labours.

Claud dropped into a chair, and covered his
face with his hands. '' Everything comes at
once ! " he exclaimed. " Ah, Poinsot, they may
say what they like ; but life has its good
moments ! "

Poinsot looked at the young fellow rather
oddly. Perhaps he felt a little ashamed of his
tardy help. " I should have been to see you
before," he said ; '' but I was for some time
away, at Vichy and elsewhere, and when I came
back, I had no idea at first that — that "

"I know — I know. How could you guess
that I had reduced myself to beggary } The
truth is that I have been careless and extravagant
and have got myself into a very pretty
mess ; but now, thanks to you, I shall be able
to keep my head above water, I hope. I have
not said much ; but I trust you understand how
grateful I am."

'' What for ? For acting as a go-between ?
That is all that I have done ; and my friend
the editor has just as much reason to thank meas
you have. It is not exactly the mines of

Potosi that I have thrown open to you ; but it
may serve your purpose until you see your way
to something better. And how goes on the
new play ? — for of course you have begun a
new one."

'' How could you tell that ? " cried Claud in
genuine astonishment. " I should not have
thought that any one would have credited me
with so much presumption. But it is true
enough that I have got another drama about
half written in my drawer. I wonder — would
it bore you very much ? — as you are here —
would you mind just giving one glance at the
outline, and telling me what you think of it ? "

The good-natured Poinsot did not refuse.
He gave up the rest of the morning to a careful
study of Claud's fresh effort ; and then the
two friends went out together, and, after paying
the upholsterer, whose obsequiousness was
delightful to witness, proceeded to that handsome
newspaper-office with which Claud was
soon to become better acquainted. Here it
was arranged that the new contributor should
enter upon his duties at the end of a fortnight ;
and the day ended with a dinner at the Cafe
Anglais, provided at the expense of M. Poinsot,
who subsequently averred that never, before or
since, had he enjoyed so large an amount of

vicarious happiness as upon this auspicious
occasion.

It may be hoped that Mr. Gervis also enjoyed
his fortnight's cruise among the Channel
Islands ; for it will surely be admitted that he
deserved to do so. When Claud's time was
up, he returned straight to Paris, without taking
Beachborough on his way. Nina sent him
plenty of affectionate little letters, but agreed
with him that he was in duty bound to devote
the whole of his short holiday to his father.
Her own father, she wrote, would not hear of
her leaving England before the beginning of
the winter.

So Claud went back to Paris alone, to take
up his part as one of the resident workers in
the city which he had hitherto scarcely known,
save as strangers know it. In that new and
busy world, where he made many friends, and
added considerably to the store of his experience,
and where each day brought him some
fresh aid towards that study of mankind which
he had chosen to adopt as his profession, we
may for the present take leave of him.

VOL. ir.

CHAPTER IV.

IN THE LINCOLNSHIRE WOLDS.

If Mr. Flemyng had been shown the letter in
which he was represented as protesting against
the notion of his daughter's leaving him, a
slightly disdainful smile would probably have
illumined the features of that superior being.
Nina was, as he had told her, heartily welcome
to make use of her old home whenever it might
suit her to do so ; but to suppose that the
society of any member of his family was, or
could be, indispensable to Mr. Flemyng would
have been to show a lamentable misconception of
a nature becoming daily more and more weaned
from earthly affections by contemplation of the
abstract, and accustomed, in its less lofty moods,
to occupy itself rather with the welfare of the
community than with those narrower family
cares which chiefly interest women. In the
compassionate toleration with which he regarded

women and children at arose Mr.
Flemyng Included his own offspring. He admitted
a certain degree of responsibility for
them ; he paid — not without casual ruffling of
the philosophic calm — for their sustenance, their
clothing, and their education ; but, like his
neighbour Mr. Gervis, he was a disbeliever in
natural affection, and in fact looked upon the
circumstance of his having children at all as
merely one of those retribution which inexorable
Nature inflicts upon the heedlessness of
youth.

It may be assumed, therefore, without fear of
doing Nina an injustice, that her father's alleged
unwillingness to part with her was but a euphemism
for her own reluctance to spend the
hot months of August and September in Paris,
and that she did not mean to imply that she
would remain during the whole of that time
stationary at the Moated House. As a matter
of fact, she was scarcely there at all after the
first few weeks. For a time the freedom, the
space, the comfort of having plenty of servants
at command, the cheerful racket of a large
household, and the shady repose of summer
lawns had sufficiently refreshed her soul. Even
Jacky and Tommy, whose reverence for their
sister was in no way deepened by her new dignity

as a married woman, had had their charms ;
and it had been amusing to receive the visits of
the neighbours, to submit her Parisian dresses
to their envious gaze, to laugh in her sleeve at
their oddities, and to baffle their inquisitive
queries about her husband. But delights of
this kind soon pall upon an energetic disposition
; and before the end of July Mrs. Claud
Gervis had come to the conclusion that it was
high time to let her friends know that she was
in England.

Of these the name was legion ; for Nina
Flemyng had always been one of those girls
whom everybody likes : especially had she been
dear to ladies with country-houses to fill.
Cheerful, pretty, well-dressed, fond of fun and
ready for anything that might be going, yet in
no way what could be called a fast young
woman, her worth had been fully appreciated
by those chatelaines. Some of them, who had
not only big houses but unmarried eldest sons
also to look after, had, it is true, fought a little
shy of her at times ; but now that she was both
married and unencumbered with the society of
her husband, the list of her qualifications as a
desirable guest seemed to be complete ; and ina
brief space of time she had more invitations
than she could accept.

So, while Claud was scribbling away for dear
life on the other side of the Channel, his wife
was flitting from one English county to another,
charming all whom she met and leaving scores
of smitten hearts in her wake. She wrote to
Paris with commendable regularity, sometimes
giving humorous descriptions of the persons
whose salt she was eating, sometimes merely
acknowledging the receipt of letters or papers,
but very generally asking for remittances.
Some people raised their eyebrows when they
heard that she was a bride of less than a year s
standing, and wondered that she should be
already roaming about the world unprotected ;
but the majority troubled neither themselves
nor her with speculations about matters which
did not concern them. There was no scarcity
of wives without their husbands and husbands
without their wives in the various places to
which her wanderings led her.

Now it came to pass that, in the last days
of September, Mrs. Gervis reached a certain
house which stands upon the edge of the Lincolnshire
wolds, and there fell in with an old
friend and neighbour, whom, as it had chanced,
she had not encountered since her return to her
native land. She arrived late in the afternoon,
and was sitting in the drawing-room before

dinner, taking stock of the men whom partridge-shooting
had attracted to those parts, as they
strolled in, one by one, when suddenly a well-known
dapper little figure showed itself amid
a cluster of strange ones. The new-comer
caught sight of her at the same moment, and
straightway advanced towards her, joy depicted
upon his countenance.

'' Fancy meeting you here ! " he exclaimed
The very person of all others whom I wanted
to see ! This zs a bit of luck."

'' How flattering ! " said Nina, holding out
her hand to him. " I am sure I am delighted
to see you ; but had you any very particular
reason for wishing to see me, if one may ask ? "

Oh, I heard you were in England — hoped
we should come across one another — such a
long time since we've met," Freddy answered, a
little confused ; for he had been upon the point
of giving a perfectly honest reply, and had only
been checked by a timely recollection that few
ladies like to be told that they are welcome
chiefly for the sake of any information which
they may be in a position to impart as to the
welfare of another of their sex.

Not such a very long time, is it ? " asked
Nina innocently. 'when was it that you were
in Paris ? Scarcely more than three months

ago, I think. But perhaps you have forgotten
that we met there."

''No fear ! I remember perfectly well that I
called upon you, and, by the same token, that
you wouldn't have anything to say to me."

*' I was brought up to speak when I was
spoken to," answered Nina demurely. "You
didn't come to the Rue amsterdam to see me,
you know, and it wasn't for me to interrupt
your conversation. Let me see : it was the
Grand Prix that brought you over to Paris,
wasn't it ? How pretty that Longchamps
course is ! — and all the woods round it too. I
don't know a pleasant place to spend a quiet
day in than the Bois."

Freddy looked at her, half amused, half
alarmed. Evidently the murder was to some
extent out; but did Nina know the whole truth,
or was she fishing ? He was almost inclined
to rely upon her good nature and their longstanding
friendship, and make a clean breast of
it. For he was dying for news of Genevieve,
and he was sufficiently versed in the ways of
women to be aware that the surest method of
enlisting their sympathy is to flatter their vanity
by intrusting them with a secret. But before
he had time to commit himself, he was led
away to the other end of the room to be introduced

to the lady whom he was to take Into
dinner; and it was not until much later in the
evening that he found another opportunity of
approaching Mrs. Gervis.

She was then seated, a little apart from the
rest of the company, upon one of those low,
deep sofas which modern upholstery has adapted,
with luxurious improvements, from a shape in
use among our forefathers, and which is designed
to accommodate not more than two
persons. Some one who had been talking to
her had just risen, and Freddy hastened to
secure the vacant place before anybody else
could make for it.

*' Heard anything of the Princess lately ? "
he asked, with a fine assumption of carelessness,
as he sank down upon the cushions.

I had a letter from her a few days ago,"
answered Nina. " She is in the Pyrenees, enjoying
herself immensely, she says."

'' All well, I hope ? "

I presume she is quite well. She didn't
mention her health."

And — er — the rest of the party ? Are they
all right?"

"Well, I believe M. Hirsch is not any better.
But there is not much chance of his ever being
any better, I am afraid."

*' I suppose not. Poor beggar ! Hum !"

After this there was a pause, during which
Mrs. Gervis fanned herself placidly, and contemplated
her neighbour with a faintly ironical
smile.

'' Hang it all, Nina ! " burst out Freddy at
last, " we've been friends all our lives, and the
deuce is in it if I mayn't speak plainly to you.
You know what I want well enough. Tell me
all about her. I haven't so much as heard her
name mentioned for months ; and that beggar
Claud is the worst correspondent that ever
stepped."

Nina did not reply at once. She continued
to survey her questioner with the same faint
smile, as though she found him an entertaining,
and at the same time rather singular
study.

What made you fall in love with her,
Freddy ? " she asked presently.

Freddy laughed, " How should I know ?
What made you fall in love with Claud ? "

''Ah!"

With this somewhat ambiguous response
Nina relapsed once more into silence. But
after a minute or two she roused herself, as if
with an effort, and said brusquely —

Well — what am I to tell you about her ? I

don't correspond with her, you know. I believe
she is quite well, if it is any satisfaction to you
to hear that ; and I suppose she is playing the
violin as usual ; and she has got an admirer —
a M. d'Arblay, whom the Princess is moving
heaven and earth to get her to marry. However,
you needn't let the thought of that spoil
your night's rest ; there is no occasion for
jealousy. From what I saw of M. d'Arblay, I
should say he was exactly the husband for her —
a very good fellow, rather slow, but a great
musician and a man who takes a serious view
of life — a male counterpart of herself, in short.
And therefore, of course, she abhors him, and
adores you, who haven't a thought or a taste
in common with her. It's a queer world wee
live in."

'' It's good enough for me," observed Freddy
contentedly. " I'm sure I've had more luck in
it than I deserve."

Oh, if every one had his deserts ! — But
maybe, after all, you are less lucky than you
fancy yourself. Who knows good luck from
bad ? 'The proof of the pudding is in the
eating.' We are all of us like so many children
diving into a bran-tub. We clutch hold of the
biggest thing we can find ; and it is not until
we have retired into a corner to examine our

treasure that we discover whether It is the
grand prize that we have been dreaming about
for weeks, or only half a brick-bat, neatly
wrapped up in silver paper. Life is always
planning these pleasant little surprises for us.
Life, my dear Freddy, taking it all in all, is a
gigantic mistake. The best way of treating it
is to think about It as little as possible, and to
dance and sing while one can. They are
dancing in the next room now. Shall we go
and take a turn ? You and I used to waltz
together often enough once upon a time."

Dancing was much more in Freddys line
than moralizing. He led his partner to the
hastily cleared room where some ten couples
were already revolving, and there soon convinced
himself that she had lost none of the
skill which he had been used to admire In her
in days of yore.

Do I dance decently ? " she asked, pausing,,
a little out of breath, at the end of their second
waltz.

You know you do," answered Freddy,
laughing, " or you wouldn't put such a conceited
question. Your dancing is as good as
It can be."

*' As good as Genevieve's ? "

'T am not going to draw odious comparisons""

replied the judicious Freddy. '' You are both
of you perfection."

Don't be Imbecile. I want to hear the
truth : do I dance better than she does ? "

'* Well, if you insist upon being told," said
Freddy, a little reluctantly, '' I suppose you do.
In fact, I'm sure you do ; but "

*' But she plays the fiddle, nest-ce pas ? It Is
like Splendors exercises — ' Has he a good
heart ?' — ' No; but he has the Irishman's
wooden leg.' I am not daring to put myself
upon a level with her on any point, except one ;
and you need not grudge me that. Let me
have the satisfaction of thinking that I am
superior to Incarnate perfection in one small
particular."

Freddy did not altogether relish this tone as
applied to his future wife. With happy tact,
he led the conversation into another channel
by asking Nina how long her period of grass-widowhood
was going to last. But she interrupted
him impatiently.

'' For the love of Heaven, don't use that
disgustingly vulgar expression, and don't talk
about it at all ! If you knew how many times
that same inquiry has been put to me, in rather
more refined terms, during the last six weeks !
Let it be supposed, for the time being, that I

haven't got a husband, or that he Is somewhere
in the room. Unless you want to get rid of me,
you will avoid the subject."

She recurred to it, however, of her own
accord, a little later, when the dancing was
over, and she and Freddy had returned to their
corner in the drawing-room.

*' So here we are, partners in misfortune,
two forlorn doves without our respective mates,"
she said ; " and we can mingle our tears. So
the world goes round. It seems odd, doesn't
it?'^

She had dropped into a very graceful and
pensive attitude, her cheek resting on her hand
and supported by the most perfectly modelled
arm in the world. There had been a time
when Freddy had admired that hand and arm
prodigiously — when, in point of fact, he had
been within an ace of soliciting the former for
his own. But circumstances had ordained
otherwise. Lady Croft had been over-anxious ;
Nina herself had thought fit to snub him at the
critical moment ; and so he had drawn back,
and that fine project had melted into air, like
many another that had preceded it. Was it
some memory of those half-forgotten days,
Freddy wondered, that caused Nina to discover
oddity in the present situation ? He judged it.

in any case, best to Ignore the allusion, and to
answer only the first of her remarks.

*' I dare say we shall neither of us shed tears,"
he said ; '' though I can tell you I sometimes
feel very much like It. This sort of thing is
precious hard lines on a fellow, mind you.
You're different ; I don't see that you have
much to growl about. You can write to Claud,
and hear from him, every day of your life, and
I suppose you can go to him whenever you feel
inclined ? "

Perhaps he doesn't want me to go to him,"
she returned in a low voice, looking down at
the tips of two tiny black satin shoes, which
were quite new — being, indeed, one of half a
dozen pairs which Claud had just sent her from
Paris at her request. Then she looked up
suddenly, so that her eyes encountered Freddy's,
and added, with a sort of forced gaiety, " You
forget that I am married to an author, and that
with husbands of that persuasion, Art (with a
big A) begins the alphabet, and wife (with a
small w) comes very near the end of it."

Freddy looked at her, and was moved with
compassion. " Poor little soul ! " he thought,
** I was sure there was a screw loose somewhere.
Fancy preferring pens and ink to her ! — what
an Infernal shame ! By George, what a duffer
Claud is ! "

He felt quite a glow of virtuous Indignation
against his absent friend. " Of course he wants
you' he said aloud.

'* You think so ? Well then, perhaps I don't

want " She broke off. " The truth of the

matter Is," she confessed, with a frank laugh,
^' that If I were to go back to Paris now, I
should be a terrible burden upon him. We
married In haste, as you know ; and If we have
not repented of the marriage itself at our
leisure, we have at all events had some reason
to repent of the haste. We are simply eaten
up with poverty ; and the longer I stay away
the more we can economize In bread and butter
don't you see ? " Then, as Freddy only
looked concerned and answered nothing, she
resumed : '' I have come to the conclusion that
Mr. Gervis was quite right, and that there
should be no hurry about matrimony. I am
sure you ought to be much obliged to him
for giving you plenty of time to look before
you leap. In nine cases out of ten, when it
comes to be a question of marriage, the wisest
plan is to think three times, and then not todo
It'*

She could hardly have stated In plainer language
that she looked upon her own marriage
as a matter for regret ; and in truth there were

moments In which she did so regard It. *' As
for you, you are not married yet," she said.

*' I'm going to be, though," returned Freddy
stoutly.

*' You have thought that once or twice before,
haven't you ? "

She raised those beautiful grey eyes of hers
to her neighbour's face with a look which sent
a vague thrill and sensation of uneasiness
through him. How handsome she was ! — how
thoroughbred ! — how perfectly finished at all
points ! And how well that little air of mingled
irony and melancholy became her ! Freddy
was more than ever convinced that Claud was
a duffer.

Now, the perspicuous reader will doubtless
have seen from the outset of this colloquy that
Mrs. Gervis, despite her matronly dignity, had
maintained, or reverted to, her old habits, and
that, for reasons best known to herself, she was
now pleased to exercise her fascinations upon
one who had successfully resisted them informer
times. What those reasons were I do
not pretend to guess. Nina flirted, as a duckling
swims, and it was by no means a necessary
deduction from her doing so that she had any
aim, definite or indefinite, before her. In the
present instance, it is possible that she may have

been to some extent influenced by the desire to
score a point against Genevieve, whose cold
reception of her advances she had never quite
pardoned. Be that as it may, it is certain that
Freddy himself had no suspicion of what she
was driving at. He had never been In love
with Nina Flemyng, and was not likely to
become so now. When that period of courtship,
which had so nearly culminated In an
engagement, had come to an end, he had gone
away for a few months, and on his return had
met her as the old playmate and friend that she
had always been to him ; and It was in that
light, and no other, that he regarded her now.
Moreover, he was a loyal little fellow, and, setting
aside his love for Genevieve, would have
thought It a disgraceful thlno^ to make love too

o o

his friend's wife.

Nevertheless he returned Nina's gaze with
one of those looks which may mean a great
deal or nothing at all. And for my part, I am
free to confess that I do not at all blame him in
this matter. I have no hesitation in saying
that I myself, for all my five and forty years,
should have acted likewise under similar circumstances.
I don't see what else he could
have done. I don't see what else an archbishop
could have done, even had Mrs. Archbishop

VOL. III. H

been watching him from the opposite side of
the room. CEillades of this description are like
a Freemason's grip ; you are bound to return
them ; and to ignore them would be almost as
discourteous as to cut a lady in the street.
Their Innocence or the reverse depends solely
upon the significance lent to them by the persons
concerned ; and the same may be said of
a shake of the hand or a movement of the
head.

This exchange of glances took place, then, In
accordance with rule and precedent, and was
followed by nothing more romantic than a half-suppressed
yawn on the part of the lady.

How sleepy this air makes one ! " she said.
What does one do with oneself here ? You
are out shooting all day long, I suppose ? "

I was to-day," answered Freddy.

'rand all the other men too, of course. If
there is a fatiguing thing, it's having to do the
amiable to a lot of ill-tempered women ; and
almost all women are ill-tempered until after
luncheon. I wonder whether they have got
anything one could ride in the stables ? "

Oh, bless you, yes ! " said the good-natured
Freddy. '' I'll find a mount for you tomorrow,
and we'll go out and have a gallop. I'll let the
shooting slide for once," he added generously.

** Oh, will you ? " she exclaimed, brightening.
*' Now, that would be a really kind act. Do
you remember our gallops on the Lynchester
race-course ever so long ago ? What fun we
used to have ! Does Genevieve ride ? ' No ;
but she plays the fiddle.' There — don't be
cross ; I didn't mean to say anything disagreeable."


But she does ride," cried Freddy, really
indignant.

'' Does she ? So much the better then. I
shan't ask whether she rides better than I do.
I know I can follow you wherever you choose
to go ; and that is enough for all practical
purposes ; Isn't it ? I must not expect to surpass
perfection in more than one accomplishment."


'hang It! Nina," broke out Freddy, In a
tone of great annoyance, " I believe you're
jealous of her."

He did not intend his charge to bear anything
but a general application ; but she chose
to Interpret It otherwise. She was silent for a
moment ; and then — " Perhaps," she answered
gravely. And this time she accompanied the
word with a look which cannot be said to have
been as Innocent as her former one.

Was It a proof of very unwarrantable conceit

in Freddy that he went off to the smoking-room
presently in a reflective mood, and that,
thinking over the above conversation, it should
have occurred to him that this neglected wife
might possibly be repenting of her choice, and
regretting that she had not made better use of
a certain opportunity of establishing herself in a
more congenial home ? The upshot of his self-communing
was that he was very sorry for
Nina, and that he determined to be as kind ashe
could to her during the few days that they
were likely to be together. O sancta simplicity
\ At that very moment, if he had but
known it, Mrs. Gervis and his hostess were
sitting in their dressing-gowns before a blazing
fire, disposing of him in a few perfectly candid
sentences.

''He is a dear little fellow, the former was
saying. '' Dreadfully dull, you know — a little
of him goes a long way — but quite the kindest-hearted
creature that ever breathed. He and
I have been sworn allies ever since the days
when we used to make mud pies together as
children. He is very anxious to take me outriding
tomorrow ; and I said I would go, if you
did not object, and if you could spare me a
horse. Where did you get that lovely old
lace ? "

CHAPTER V.

AMONG THE Sand-hills.

The scenes, episodes, conversations, and so
.forth which make up this chronicle have, it is
hardly necessary to say, come to the knowledge
of the writer, not in their present consecutive
shape, but at divers times and from sundry
sources — a bit here and a bit there, after the
fashion of those puzzle-pictures with which
food children are allowed to amuse themselves
on Sunday afternoons, and whose component
parts require a little trouble and ingenuity to
piece together, while some of them, as time
goes on, are apt to be missing altogether.

In the forming of the picture now before you
many gaps have had to be filled up by the
artist to the best of his poor abilities. He has
found himself compelled to put in figures which
may very likely be a little out of drawing ; he
has shown his lamentable ignorance of perspective

perhaps ; perhaps he has thrown light
upon places which a more skilful craftsman
would have left in shade, and vice versa. I
plead guilty in advance to clumsy workmanship
and to a hundred blunders which have doubtless
been apparent to the reader, begging him
only to believe that upon the accuracy of the
main incidents submitted to him he may implicitly
rely ; while as for details, it is notorious
that a little license of fancy in that direction has
ever been conceded to all historians, great and
small. The invaluable assistance afforded tome
by Miss Potts has of necessity been available
for a portion only of the narrative in hand ;
Claud, who has a good memory and, when in
the vein, considerable descriptive powers, has
been unable to enlighten me as to certain
particulars of which it is important that the
reader should be informed ; and it is obvious
that some dialogues already recorded were
neither heard by me nor reported verbatim by
those who took part in them. Thus, in default
of omniscience, I have ventured to fall back,
every now and then, upon imagination, upon
antecedent probability, and upon my knowledge
of the persons with whom I am concerned. If
the words which I have imputed to them are
not precisely those that they uttered, it is

I

demonstrable that they must have made use of
others to much the same effect ; and although
I scorn to disguise the fact that I have never
penetrated beyond the outer walls of that
Lincolnshire mansion where we left two of our
friends at the end of the last chapter, yet, from
what has reached me from various quarters, I
could, if it were necessary, draw a tolerably
correct ground-plan of the building ; while of
the incidents that occurred there during the
autumn days to which the sequence of events
has now brought us, I have heard enough to
feel sure that imagination may be trusted to fill
up the blanks with a fair approach to exactitude.
Imagination, then — and no great stretch of
it — will enable us to see Mrs. Gervis as she
rides across the bare country with Freddy
Croft, to catch echoes of what passes between
them, and to watch the melancholy, though by
no means uncommon, spectacle of an honest
man being made a fool of by a pretty woman.
Imagination will picture without difficulty the
ease with which Nina, having made up her
mind to flirt with her old admirer, persuaded
that innocent to devote himself exclusively to
her, and the opportunities which country-house
life afforded for the carrying out of her purpose,
and the mingled pity and amusement of

those who looked on at this time-honoured
comedy. During the whole of the first day
F'reddy, being still under the impression that
he was the object of an ill-starred attachment,
bore himself towards his companion with a
gentleness and subdued commiseration which,
if she understood its cause, must have been
infinitely diverting to her ; but when he found
that Nina was in the highest of spirits, and
that she indulged in no more sighs or sentimental
innuendoes, this view of the case faded
out of his mind, and he yielded, half-unconsciously,
to those bewitching female influences
which had kept him more or less in hot water
from his boyhood up. The notion that he was
being guilty of anything like treachery to
Genevieve did not suo-crest itself to him. Genevieve,
in his thoughts, was raised upon a
pinnacle far above the heads of womankind at
large ; love such as he felt for her could have
nothing whatever to say to the sort of pastime
with which he and Mrs. Gervis, and perhaps
three or four other couples at the same time
and in the same house, were amusing themselves
; and it would be in some sort an insult
to her to suppose that his conduct with regard
to these inferior beings could cause her any
uneasiness, or to place her upon the same

footing with ladies who, though charming in
her way, were essentially of the earth, earthy.
Such, at least, might have been the answer he
would have made to conscience, if conscience
had accused him ; but it is more probable that
he neither analyzed his sensations nor took
himself to task for them ; but simply enjoyed
the passing hour and what it brought, as his
easy nature led him to do.

Nina, for her part, enjoyed her stay in
Lincolnshire so much that she readily consented
to prolong it. The life was of a kind
that suited her better than any other. The
party assembled in the house was composed
entirely of young people, with a preponderance
of young men ; unquestioned liberty was accorded
to all ; what with riding, driving, and
walking to meet the sportsmen on their return,
the daylight hours were amply provided for ;
the evenings were given up to dancing and
theatricals, and she had secured, in the person
of the foolish Freddy, what she had always
held to be essential to complete comfort in
such situations, a cavalier set apart for her
especial service.

This couple became so inseparable that if
one of the company happened to ask, '' Has
anybody seen Croft ? " he was sure to be met

With a counter-query of "Where's Mrs. Gervis ?''
and the appearance of one of them without the
other invariably gave rise to a fire of pleasantries
which were not in the least resented by
the objects of them. There surely could have
been no great harm in so open and undisguised
a flirtation ; but the worst of playing with
edged tools is that it needs but the slightest
jog of the elbow to make the player inflict a
nasty wound upon himself or the person
nearest to him ; and if Freddy, upon whom
experience has always been thrown away, overlooked
this danger, it cannot be pretended that
Nina was equally unconscious of it.

The fact was that something more than inborn
craving for admiration was at the bottom of
Mrs. Gervis's reckless behaviour. She had not
been insincere when she had given Freddy to
understand that her husband's evident indifference
made her unhappy. She knew that the
happiness which for so short a time had seemed
to be within her grasp had slipped away from
her for ever ; and though, with that curious
candour and self-knowledge of hers, she had
always foretold that it would do so, she had
hardly anticipated so speedy a justification of
her prediction, nor was she at all inclined to
admit that she alone was to blame for its

fulfilment. She had forgotten her desertion
of Claud in the hour of his tribulation ; she had
forgotten that it was by her will and suggestion,
not his, that she was absent from him still ; but
what she could neither forget nor forgive was
that he had never, by word or hint, expressed
a wish for her return, that he was to all appearance
perfectly content to live without her, and
lastly — worst offence of all — that he could by
no means be brought to exhibit any shadow of
the jealousy which husbands surely ought to
feel when their wives are gallivanting about the
country in the company of other men. Could
this be the same Claud who, only twelvemonths
ago, had pulled a long face when, to
tease him, she had given him a list of her
former philanderings ? She purposely sent him
a glowing description of a certain renowned
lady-killer whom she met in the west of England
; and in his reply he never mentioned this
dangerous individual at all. From Lincolnshire
she wrote to him some account of her
newly formed alliance with Freddy Croft ; and
in due course came a hastily written answer, in
which Claud said that he was overwhelmed with
work and had little time for letter-writing : that
he was glad to hear that she was enjoying herself,
and that she had foregathered with Freddy.

^' You two always got on well together," he
observed, '' and I should think that, between
you, you are keeping the Lincolnshire people
alive."

When Nina read these words, she crumpled
up the paper and threw it away from her with
a sudden gesture of exasperation, *' Have it
your own way then ! " she cried ; and if at that
moment Freddy had proposed an elopement to
her, I am quite inclined to believe that he would
Jive obtained her consent.

Freddy was far indeed from harbouring any
such shocking intentions. Mrs. Gervis had
succeeded in making his visit very pleasant to
him ; but if she imagined that she could induce
him to postpone his departure by a single day,
she entirely mistook her man. On the 28th
our young gentleman was due at Newmarket ;
and from Newmarket there was but one woman
in the world who could keep him. But as the
date of the first October meeting drew near,
he was kind enough to say that he wished it
could be deferred for another week. '' I shall
be awfully sorry to leave this," he declared ;
"we've had such a jolly time of it, and now
there's an end of it all." And he pumped up
a prodigious sigh.

Nina looked at him and lao-hed. " Don't

try to put on a melancholy face," she said.
'' Keep that for next week, when you find you
have backed the wrong horse. There is no
occasion to look dismal because we are about tO'
part. We shall meet again before long, unless
something happens to one of us ; and If we
were to live on like this much longer, the
chances are that we should become utterly sick
of each other. As It Is, we shall be able, I
hope, to say farewell with a proper amount of
regret — which Is something to be thankful for.
To-morrow will be your last day, won t It ?
What do you mean to do ? "

"Whatever you tell me," answered Freddy,,
gallantly.

Nina was standing In the bay window of the
drawing-room, which overlooked a foreground
of undulating slopes, beyond which a vast and
unbroken plain stretched away to meet the sky.
A sort of silvery haze on the horizon gave an
indefinite idea of the point at which those low-lying
lands lost themselves In the German
Ocean.

'' I was thinking," she said, " that I should
rather like to have a last ride — a really long
one. Do you think it would be at all possible
to get as far as the sea ? It looks as if one
might ride and ride, and never find oneself any

nearer to It — as If It was somewhere beyond
the edge of the world."

Oh dear, no ! " answered the matter-of-fact
Freddy. *' About fourteen miles as the crow
flies, I should say ; and one ought to be able to
make pretty straight for It. It looks farther
because the weather's rather thick. I don't see
a bit why we shouldn't go there, and have a
gallop on the sands too. The only thing Is, It
would be better to make an early start, so as tolet
the horses have a rest."

I wonder whether we could set off directly
after breakfast, and take some sandwiches with
us."

'' Of course we could. That would be first-rate."


Only then perhaps some of the others
would want to come with us."

I'll tell them they ain't wanted," said
Freddy cheerfully ; and there Is not the least
doubt but that he would have carried out his
intention.

But Nina said she thought It would be
hardly necessary to be so explicit. " I dare say
you will be able to make them understand,"
she added, with a laugh.

Freddy, It must be assumed, was equal to the
emergency ; for the next morning saw our two

friends setting forth upon their expedition unaccompanied,
their host shouting a few last
directions to them from the steps.

"Stick to the Queen's highway, Croft ; there's
grass on both sides of the road everywhere.
If you try cutting across country, you may get
to some fences that will puzzle you. You'll
find stabling at Oglethorpe, and I believe
there's an inn, where Mrs. Gervis will be able to
get a cup of tea, or something, if she wants it.
By-bye!"

Their way led them down the slope of the
hills, through woods where the leaves were
already beginning to flutter down with every
gust of wind, past fields in which the harvesters
were still at work, and so out at last upon the
great plain. It was through a curious, 
landscape of flats and fens that
they rode — a landscape mapped out into rectilinear
fields and pasture-lands, dotted at rare
intervals with solitary trees, and cut by the long
white line of the high-road, and the black one
of the railway, which converged towards the
horizon, where the sea was no longer visible.
At their backs, half hidden in pearly mists, rose
the swelling wolds, whence they had come ; but
before them, and to their right hand and their
left, the endless level spread itself, broken only

by here and there a farm-house or a grey
church-tower, seen far and wide. When low
black clouds hang over it, and the heavy winter
rains are streaming up from the southward, as
from an inexhaustible reservoir, this country
wears an aspect more woefully dismal than anyone
who has not seen it under such circumstances
can well form an idea of; but under
clear skies it has a charm of its own — the
charm of space, the charm of the desert, or of
the sea, when no land is in sight. Perhaps,
though, it is at its best on such a still, misty
morning as that on which our two equestrians
made its acquaintance. Bright sunshine is a
little out of keeping with its peculiar character ;
but grey weather, with distant shafts of lights,
like Jacob's ladders, breaking through the
clouds, and the hush of the dying summer
brooding over all things, seems to suit its
sobriety, and to lend it a kind of melancholy
peace which, if it be not beauty, is not far
removed from it. As in the land of the lotos-eaters
it is always afternoon, so in these parts,
one fancies, it should be always autumn.

Freddy and Nina, neither of whom was in
the mood for studying scenery, were probably
not conscious of this soothing influence ; but
the landscape pleased them —perhaps because

they were In a good humour — and they agreed
that, In respect of natural attractiveness,
Lincolnshire had been much maligned. Both
of them country-bred, they had a delight In
rural surroundings, of which dwellers In cities
are Ignorant, and found a dozen trifles to remark
upon where the uninitiated would have detected
nothing. While they cantered along the wayside
grass, Freddy scanned the wheat and
barley with a farmer's eye, appraising their
value and comparing them with his own, which
had been carried some weeks before. Urged
by promptings that we know of, he had latterly
been devoting much attention to the duties of
a landed proprietor, and was not a little proud
of his newly acquired lore.

But as they went on their way, there was less
and less to be said in favour of the crops ; and
soon these ceased altogether, and were replaced
by poor, sandy grazing-lands and dykes, among
which some half-starved horses were wandering
and cropping the coarse herbage. And then —
suddenly, as It seemed, though in reality the
barriers had been visible miles away — a long
range of low sand-hills blocked the travellers*
path, and they knew that they had reached the
sea. Here the road turned off abruptly at
right angles ; but Freddy spurred his horse,

VOL. III. I

and breasted the natural earthwork, Nina
following him. It was, as Freddy said, " a
bit of a breather " for their beasts ; for the
ascent, though short, was sharp, and in that
loose, heavy sand the horses floundered up to
their hocks ; but presently they were upon the
summit, and, creeping gingerly clown upon the
other side, found themselves on such an expanse
of firm sea sand as is not to be met with everywhere.
Far away were the white breakers of
the ebbing tide ; gulls were circling and swooping
over the waves ; a fleet of Grimsby fishing-smacks
was in the offing ; a fresh, salt-smelling
wind blew steadily inland. Here were life and
movement enough — a strange contrast to the
still world that lay so near.

*' This is glorious ! " exclaimed Nina, drawing
in her breath. " How I love the sea ! And
oh, what a place for a gallop ! Freddy, I will
race you to that point, and take your two to
one."

But Freddy looked doubtful. ''If I was
riding one of my own horses, I'd lay It you like
a shot," he said ; " but we've come a goodish
distance ; and don't you think — eh ? "

'' That It Isn't quite the thing to distress
one's neighbour's cattle ? Perhaps not. Well,
let us trot soberly off to the stables, wherever

they are. What a bore it is that pleasant
things are always wrong ! I suppose it's the
effect of the sea air ; but I have a desperate inclination
to do something outrageous. Do you
ever feel like that ? "

"Very often," answered Freddy. 'rand
then, as a general thing, I do it."

"Just so; but I can't. We women are not
allowed free play, as you are — more's the pity !
A woman who respects herself must wear
stays."

"If you come to that, a man has got to shave
himself every morning. I don't see why you
should have the grumbling all to yourself."

But Nina went on, without noticing this interpolation.
" I will say for myself that I have
always recognized the bonds that we are born
with, and submitted to them. No one can
have stronger impulses than I have sometimes
to snap my fingers in the face of society ; yet I
defy my worst enemy to mention more than
one instance in my life of my having given
people an excuse to gossip about me. And
even that one, if I had thought about it a little

longer But what is done is done. I

wonder whether Genevieve ever feels a craving
to do something outrageous ? "

o o

I don't know, I'm sure."

*' Of course she never does. She takes far
too lofty a view of life and Its duties to be
guilty of such levity. I don't think she has
ever forgiven me, or will forgive me, for having
been married without a wreath of orange-blossoms.
Her own wedding, I suppose, will
be performed In the presence of a large assemblage,
with solemn rites and full orchestral
accompaniment, won't It ? "

'' Do you know," said Freddy, '' I think, If
you don't mind, I'd rather not discuss her."

Coming from Freddy, whose good humour
was generally proof against any amount of
raillery, this was a tolerably severe snub ; but
Nina did not resent It. She only laughed, and
touched her horse with the whip.

*every well, then," said she, 'she shan't be
discussed. We'll go and discuss some mutton-chops
Instead, If the natives can produce mutton-chops.
I don't know how you feel, but I am
ravenous."

By this time they had reached Oglethorpe,
a diminutive watering-place which has sprung
up among those rolling sand-hills, and enjoys
some annual three months of semi-existence as
against nine of profound torpor. The lodging-houses
were deserted now, and the one-storeys
hotel displayed a row of closed shutters,

behind which presumably the inhabitants
were liberating. Refreshment for man and
beast proved, however, to be attainable ; and
Mrs. Gervis won the heart of the heavy-footed
Lincolnshire rustic who waited upon the
strangers by demanding to see her children,
and presenting them with sixpence apiece to
buy lollypops. For some reason or other, Nina
was in wild spirits. She played hide-and-seek
with the dirty little children ; when they were
gone, she gave a facetious imitation of their
mother's gait and dialect ; she chattered incessantly,
and cracked jokes which, if they were
not very novel, were not the less appreciated ;
insomuch that for the space of more than an
hour, Freddy's jolly laughter hardly ceased to
resound through the empty house. His own
spirits were never at a very low ebb, and
needed but the smallest provocation to become
ungovernable. Give him a congenial companion,
and Freddy was not the man to hesitate
at burning the house down for the fun of
seeing it blaze.

Nevertheless, before the afternoon was over,
memories of his Latin grammar brought back
the old adage of vce tibi jddeiiti to his mind.
For Mrs. Gervis, like others of her sex, was
subject to unaccountable fluctuations of mood ;

and when she and her escort started to walk
down to the shore before setting out on their
homeward journey, she became on a sudden
absent and depressed, and returned no answer
to remarks addressed to her. She may have
been chilled by the prospect out of doors, which
had changed somewhat for the worse. The
light was beginning to fail ; and as the sun
sank in a yellow sky, barred with horizontal
black clouds, the wind backed into the northwest,
and threatened to rise, blowing in gusts,
which rushed out towards the sea, driving
pillars of sand before them. The fishing-smacks
had made the H umber, and vanished ;
the tide was at its lowest; and the dark strip
of sea, with its fringe of white breakers beyond
two miles of wet sand, was out of hearing and
almost out of sight. The whole scene was
inexpressibly mournful. All sign of life had
left it ; and the silence of it was broken only
when the wind, sweeping through the telegraph
wires which connected the village with the
railway-station, carried a low, wailing sound
through the air, like an echo of far-away
soliman harps.

I am tired," said Nina abruptly; "let us sit
down."

She seated herself, as she spoke, upon the

summit of the ridge of sandy dunes, with her
back to the darkening land, which fell away till
it seemed to reach a far lower level than that of
the sea which in old times washed over it ; and
clasping her hands round her knees, gazed
abstractedly towards the horizon. Freddy,
stretched out at her feet, propped his chin on
his hand, and contemplated her — a graceful,
shapely figure, in her well-fitting habit, standing
out against that pale sky.

Well," she said at length, " why don't you
speak ? What are you thinking about ? "

'' I wasn't thinking about anything," was
Freddy's perfectly truthful reply. " I was
looking at you."

'were you ? What did you see, I wonder?
Did it ever happen to you to fancy that you
could see yourself, as if you were looking at
another person ? "

*' I don't know that it ever did," answered
Freddy.

'rit happens to me sometimes ; and when it
does, I am filled with an immense pity for
myself."

This sensation also was apparently beyond
the limits of Freddy's experience ; for he stared,
and made no rejoinder.

I see myself sitting before me," Nina continued,

" and I think, ' Poor girl ! there isn't
much harm in her ; but there never can be
much good ; and how can she help it ? '
Why should we be blamed and punished for
being what we were created ? You know the
fable of the Ant and the Grasshopper. I remember
how, even as a child, I used to be
shocked at the horrible injustice of it. The
poor little grasshopper had chirped and made
the best of things while the summer lasted : it
wasn't her fault that she had been born a grasshopper,
and didn't know how to lay up stores
for the winter, any more than it was to the
credit of the ant that she had been born an ant,
and followed the ways of ants."

'' But we are all born human beings," observed
Freddy, who did not quite perceive the
drift of his companion's remarks.

'' The ant and the grasshopper were both
born insects. Do you suppose there are not
as many kinds of human beings as there are
of insects in the world ? You and I belong to
the grasshopper tribe : we can chirp ; but I
don't know that we can do much else. Oh,
Freddy, don't let us try to be anything but
what we are ! We may deceive ourselves fora
time ; but Nature is stronger than we, and
the awakening has to come. People like Claud

and Genevieve are altogether above our heads ;
they belong to a different species, and we can't
mate with them. You won't let me warn you ;
it makes you angry if I venture so much as to
mention her name ; but I shouldn't mind that,
if I could save you from the future. Can't
you see that what has happened to me must
inevitably happen to you too ? — that sooner or
later she will find you wanting ? — that she will
look down upon you ? — that it will be as impossible
for you to be happy with her as — as it
is for me to be happy with Claud ? "

Her voice broke ; there were tears in her
eyes ; she was nervously plucking tufts of the
coarse bent that covered the sand-hills, and
casting them this way and that upon the wind.
I have not the slightest doubt but that, at the
moment, she meant every word that she said,
and had worked herself up into the belief that
she was entirely disinterested.

Freddy, whose tender-heartiness we are
acquainted with, was much distressed, and knew
not how to comfort her. '' I'm awfully sorry,"
he murmured, taking the hand which she had
allowed to drop by her side.

She did not withdraw It. She turned her
grey eyes, swimming In tears, upon his face,
and — " Don't be sorry for me," she said ;

*' my fate is decided. Think of yourself. Ask
yourself, before it is too late, whether you have
not made a mistake. If you had, it wouldn't
be quite the first, would it ? Sometimes, during
the last week, I have thought that you — that I
that we both made a mistake once."

And then she drew her hand away, and began
to cry softly. And then — I am sorry to be
obliged to record that then Freddy put his arm
round her slim waist, and kissed her.

It cannot be denied that this was worthy of
all blame. It is, I am aware, no excuse for the
offender that the experiences of a short, but
eventful, life had led him to attach little importance
to such salutes, nor that in the present
instance he had been actuated by motives of
compassion rather than by love, nor that repentance
followed close upon the heels of guilt.
But in order to soften in some degree the hard
heart of the reader (who, in a like case, would
of course rather die than thus misconduct himself),
I may perhaps be permitted so far to
anticipate the sequel as to say that Freddys
momentary lapse met with as full and severe a
punishment as the most rigid lover of justice
could have desired.

EXCELLENT ADVICE.

Kisses, unfortunately, are among the gifts
which may be returned, but cannot by any
possibility be retracted ; and as they are in
many cases made to replace language, and are
supposed to express an infinite variety of
sentiments which there is a difficulty about
putting into words, there is clearly some risk
that the intention of them may occasionally be
misconstrued by their recipient. These considerations
should keep all wise and prudent
men from kissing their neighbours' wives — at
least, until they have made sure that their salute
will be accepted in the same spirit as given.
But young men are seldom wise and never
prudent. Freddy Croft, in kissing Mrs. Gervis,
had yielded to a not unnatural impulse roused
by the sight of a pretty woman in tears. In
much the same manner, if he had seen a small

child tumble down in the street and break its
toy, his good nature would probably have
prompted him to pick up the unfortunate, pat
her on the head, and say, 'there, don't cry,
and I'll get you another dolly." Mutatis
mtitandis, that, or very little more than that,
had been the meaning of his kiss ; but Mrs.
Gervis saw fit to put quite another interpretation
upon it. She chose to assume that it
implied acquiescence in her last words — that,
like herself, Freddy regretted her marriage
and his own engagement, and that his eyes had
been opened to recognize his natural affinity.
Not then, however, nor until long afterwards,
did she say this in so many words. Her behaviour
at the time was both dignified and
discreet. Rising to her feet immediately, but
without absurd precipitancy or any show of
virtuous indignation — '' It is time for us to be
going home," she said gravely.

During the Ions: ride back to the wolds she
made no direct allusion to what had passed ;
yet, when Freddy went up to dress for dinner,
he knew full well that he had gone further than
lie had intended, and had been entirely misunderstood.


I'm up a tree, I expect," he muttered to
himself ruefully, as he brushed his hair; and

later in the evening, when he had said goodnight
and good-bye to Nina, and she had
whispered to him, '' Come down to Croft soon ;
I must see you before I go abroad again " — he
reiterated this artless figure of speech : 'i'm
up a tree ! — by George, I'm up a tall tree ! "

He had been up so many trees of this kind
before — had been trees, and, by hook or by
crook, had always contrived to scramble down
again — not without loss of dignity, nor without
bruises and scraped shins ; still alive and free.
In his happy-go-lucky way, he supposed that
he would get out of this predicament also. He
started for Newmarket with the wise resolution
to keep as much as possible out of Mrs.
Gervls's way during the remainder of her sojourn
in England ; but he did not keep this
resolution for two reasons : firstly, because Nina
adjourned her move to Paris until after Christmas,
and secondly, because he lacked the
requisite courage. When he went to the
Moated House, he was received after a fashion
that frightened him out of his wits. Nina
seemed to take it for granted that he was dying
for love of her ; she let fall a few passing words
about her duty, told him that she could not
allow him to visit her often — not more than
three times a week, at the outside ; absolutely

refused to listen to speeches which he had not
lead the most remote intention of uttering ; and,
in short, took up so determinedly defensive a
position that he found himself involuntarily
acting the part she had assigned to him, and
making love, instead of running away. When
he did go away for a time, she wrote to him ;
and on finding that he proposed to spend a
week or two in London in the month of
December, she arranged to pay a coincident
visit of a fortnight to an old aunt of hers, who
lived in Eccleston Square.

It was at this time that I received a note,
asking me to dine with my cousins, those
KiTowleses of Stone Hall who have been incidentally
mentioned once or twice in these
pages. They had come up to town, during the
frost, to do shopping and the theatres, it
appeared, and I was informed that I should
meet my friend Mr. Gervis at dinner. He was
in the drawing-room when I arrived, and
extended his little white hand, with a gracious
assurance of the pleasure it gave him to meet
me again after an interval of a twelvemonth,
and to see me looking so well. I replied that
I was glad to be able to return the compliment;
and he shrugged his shoulders apologetically.

I am very much ashamed of myself," he

said. " I continue, as you see, to inhabit the
earth, to the great inconvenience of many
people, and I cannot say that I am any worse
in health than I was this time last year. At
m}^ age, and with the number of diseases which
the doctors tell me that I am suffering from, I
ought in common decency to have made myself
scarce before this ; but latterly I have consoled
myself with the thought that, as it cannot be for
my personal comfort that I am left in a world
where it appears to be always raining or
freezing, it must be as a humble instrument in
the hands of Providence for somebody's good
that I am spared."

He laid his head on one side, as he propounded
this theory, and looked up at me from
under his eyelids with that sidelong glance of his
which gave him such a strong resemblance to a
dapper old raven. In answer to my inquiries
after his children, he told me that he had just
returned from Paris, where he had left them
both well ; but he did not seem disposed to be
communicative upon this subject.

** I myself," he said, '' proposed to spend the
winter at Southlands ; but the draughts in that
house must be felt to be believed in. After
two days I took to my heels and fled. I have
now given orders to the housekeeper to have

heavy curtains hung over all the doors, and to
keep a fire burning in every room in the house,
night and day, until she hears from me again.
In the mean time I have found quarters in an
hotel in Jermyn Street."

I expressed a hope that he was tolerably
comfortable there.

*' On the contrary, I am Intolerably uncomfortable
; but I am near the Turkish baths,
where I spend a great part of my time, and
where at least I do not shiver. If I knew who
the man was who first introduced Turkish baths
into this unhappy country, and if he is still
living, I should like to put him down for a trifle
in my will."

Our conversation was interrupted by the
entrance of Freddy Croft, who, I thought,
looked rather taken aback when he recognized
my neighbour. I was at that time ignorant of
all that had taken place in Lincolnshire, and
could not make out why Freddy answered Mr.
Gervis's urbane observations at random, and
kept biting his moustache and glancing nervously
in the direction of the door. But I was
to some extent enlightened when I heard Mrs.
Gervis's name announced.

You have done it now, Maria," I whispered
to my cousin ; '' you have put your foot in it
this time."

Good gracious me ! " she returned, " what
Is the matter ? You don't mean to say there Is
a family quarrel ! "

** Why, my dear creature," I said, '' don't you
know that they have never met since the marriage
? Let this be a lesson to you not to ask
Lynshire people to your house another time
without consulting me."

But my cousin — with terror, no doubt, in her
heart, and an engaging smile upon her lips —
was already shaking hands with Nina, who had
sailed in, looking exceedingly handsome, in a
dinner-dress which I roughly valued in my own
mind at fifty guineas, not counting the lace.

I confess that if there is a thing that I enjoy
looking on at, it is an awkward encounter
between two people who know how to behave
themselves. Mr. Gervis and his daughter-in-law
got through theirs in a manner highly creditable
to both of them. I suspect that Nina
must have had a moment of preparation as she
advanced up the room ; for she said, " How do
you do, Mr. Gervis ? " and offered him her
hand without any hesitation or embarrassment.
He bowed over it, perhaps a shade more profoundly
than is customary in these days, and fora
moment I fancied that there was a twinkle in
his eyes, as if the situation rather amused him ;

VOL. III. K

but he half closed them directly, as his habit
was, and the remainder of his features expressed
nothing at all.

I hope you have good news of Claud," said
he, in his low, deliberate accents.

'' Oh yes," she answered. " I heard from
him a few days ago. He mentioned that he
had seen you." And then she turned away to
speak to some one else ; and it seemed to me
that Freddy, who had watched this meeting
with evident apprehension, breathed more
freely.

We had not been long in the dining-room
before I began to gain an inkling of the complications
with which the fortunes of the Gervis
family were threatened. Freddy, who had
taken my cousin in to dinner, had Mrs. Gervis
for his left-hand neighbour, and from my position
midway down the opposite side of the table
I could observe the goings-on of this couple,
which struck me as being eminently suggestive
of mischief. Now, my acquaintance with Mrs.
Nina dates from the days when she was a
demure little lady in short frocks, and used to
stir up envy, hatred, malice, and all uncharitableness
in the hearts of her brothers' schoolfellows
at children's parties, and I flatter myself that I
know her little tricks and miiiaitderies and the

meaning of them as well as anybody. When,
therefore, I saw her practising these familiar
wiles upon the young man at her side, and
marked the shamefaced manner in which he
responded to them — when I noticed the interchange
of whispers and significant looks that
passed between these two, and the furtive and
guilty glances which one of them kept darting
in front of him, to his right hand and over his
shoulder, I was able to form a shrewd guess as
to how matters stood. And ere long I became
aware that I was not the only person whose
attention was directed towards this quarter.
Mr. Gervis occupied the chair facing that upon
which Freddy was uneasily wriggling ; and I
perceived that he was employing the intervals
of leisure afforded to him by his own abstemiousness
and the fine appetite of Maria In a
prolonged study of the culprits. Judging by
the expression of his features, he was deriving
an immensity of quiet amusement from this
occupation. First he inclined his head over his
right shoulder, and took an exhaustive survey
of them from that point of view ; then he shifted
it towards the left, and had a good look at them
from another angle — for all the world as you
may see that wise bird to which Mr. Gervis has
been likened hopping round an object which

has excited his curiosity before making a rapid
peck at it.

After a time Mr. Gervis made his peck. *' I
suppose you know that Claud is about to produce
another play ? " he said, addressing his
daughter-in-law abruptly.

If his object was to make her jump, he certainly
succeeded. She was deep in subdued
conversation when the sound of that peculiar
voice, which was never raised, yet always distinctly
audible, fell upon her ear.

I — no ; I had not heard," she answered in
some confusion.

Mr. Gervis's eyebrows were raised ever so
slightly for a moment. " Oh, indeed ! Probably
he intended to give you a pleasant surprise.
The first representation is to take place in a
few weeks, I believe."

'' I am afraid I shall not see it then," answered
Nina boldly. " Nothing is settled yet
about my return to Paris."

You do not like Paris, perhaps ? " suggested
Mr. Gervis blandly. " I am aware that some
people do not. For myself, I think it is one of
the few places in the world worth living in, and
I should certainly establish myself there, if my
done so did not entail a residence in the Boulevard
Malesherbes. I doubt whether the air of

that quarter is suitable for persons with sensitive
nerves. What do you think, Croft ? You
were in Paris in the spring, I understand."

At this Freddy grew very red. '' I didn't goto
the Princess's house," he replied, staring.

"Ah, no — sto be sure! I was forgetting."
And Mr. Gervis sank back in his chair.

For the next hour and a half he continued
to behave in this way. The luckless couple
opposite were never safe from him for an
instant. In vain they affected to have nothing
particular to say to one another, and talked in
needlessly loud voices about the hunting prospects
; in vain they watched their opportunity,
not venturing to resume their confidential intercourse
until the enemy should be fairly engaged
elsewhere. Without neglecting his social duties,
he managed to keep his eyes— and for aught I
know his ears also — open to their proceedings ;
and no sooner had he lulled them into a false
security by entering upon suave political discussions
with Maria — who is a scandalous Radical,
I regret to say, and primed with recondite
information as to the misgovernment of the
country — than he would swoop down upon them
with some innocent question or equivocal allusion
which must have tried their self-control to
the utmost. They came out of the ordeal

pretty well, Nina especially displaying considerable
powers of fence and repartee ; but no
doubt they hated the man In their hearts with a
perfect hatred. I am sure I should have done
so, had I been in their place.

But it was after the ladies had left us that
poor Freddy's time of trial came. Deprived of
his capable and courageous little ally, he was
no longer able to hold out against Mr. Gervis's
veiled sarcasms, and collapsed under them
ignominiously. Not that anything of a very
alarming nature was said to him ; but I suspect
that he recognized in Mr. Gervis only the
mouthpiece of his own conscience, and that
remorse, coupled with a distressing conviction
that the man whom, of all others In the world,
he would have wished to blind to his shortcomings
was reading him like a book, united to
render that calm, Ironical gaze more than he
could endure. Be that as it may, he very soon
abandoned the strife, and fairly took to flight.
Making a feeble pretence of looking at his
watch and being astonished at the lateness of
the hour, " By George ! " he exclaimed, '' I had
no idea it was past half-past ten. Promised to
meet a man at the club at eleven. I think, if
you'll excuse me, Mr. Knowles, I'll just slip off,,
without going upstairs again."

And so, biddlnof us all a hurried eood-nleht,
he departed. We heard the hall door slam
behind him presently ; and I fancied him hailing
a hansom, and being driven away, tearing
his hair and cursing himself in his despair, like
Ralph the Rover. If he passed a night of
torments, he assuredly got no more than he
deserved, and the sympathy of right-minded
people cannot be claimed for him ; but I, who
knew him perhaps a little better than Mr.
Gervis did, felt more sorry than angry at the
turn Which affairs had taken, and was pretty
sure that Freddy was not the principal person
to blame in this unlucky business. The histories
of scrapes such as that in which he was
involved are so uniform in their character that
it required no great inductive powers to trace
this one to its source ; nor was I at all surprised
when my young gentlemen turned up at my
rooms, early on the following morning, with a
very lugubrious countenance and a request for
counsel and help.

He found me at breakfast ; but declined to
partake of my humble fare, giving me to understand
that he was in far too acute distress of
mind to think of swallowing food.

"I'll tell you what it is, Knowles," he cried,
casting himself down heavily upon my favourite

arm-chair, without the least consideration for its
springs, '' I've a deuce of a good mind to go
and hang myself"

I begged him not to risk the bathos of being
cut down and haled before the nearest magistrate,
and suggested that, as a preliminary
measure, he should make a clean breast of his
troubles.

Such, he said, was his desire ; and he proceeded
accordingly, with much self-upbraiding
and many outcries against the cruelty of fate,
to a full confession of what had occurred in
Lincolnshire and subsequently, disguising
nothing — not even that fatal kiss by the shores
of the North Sea — and vowing (as I thought I
remembered to have heard him do once or
twice before) that, if he got out of this mess,
no woman living, save one, should ever induce
him to ride, drive, walk, or sit alone with her

adam.

When he had made an end of speaking, I
cleared my voice, and addressed him at some
length ; and I felt it my duty not to deal over
leniently with him. By his own admission, I
said, he had been guilty of something more than
folly and imprudence. Not only had he been
false to his engagements and the dictates of his
heart ; not only had he allowed himself to become

involved in an intrigue with a married
woman and the wife of his friend ; but he must
needs select, out of all the ladies in England,
the one whose husband he hoped one day to
greet as his brother-in-law. And all this at
a time when his constancy was supposed to
be undergoing a two years' period of probation !
Comment upon such conduct was superfluous.
Having premised thus much, I went on to
make a good deal of superfluous comment ;
for indeed it is not every day that one has
the chance of rebuking vice and folly, and
haranguing sinners, as it were, from the 
of wisdom and virtue. I will say
that he heard me in a becoming spirit of submission;
and in due time I ceased scolding, and
came to the chapter of practical advice.

I said, ** Let us face facts. You have got
yourself into a most unpleasant fix, and you
must not expect to find a pleasant way out of
it. It is not pleasant, I allow, to say to a lady,
My good madam, you appear to be the victim
of an hallucination. I am no more in love with
you than I am with Queen Anne. So far from
that, I am, as you ought to be perfectly well
aware, very much in love with some one else.
Under the circumstances, don't you think we
had better agree to bury the past in oblivion,

and keep clear of one another, at all events as
regards the immediate future ? ' I say, it is
not pleasant to be forced to make such
speeches."

'' Good Lord ! " groaned Freddy, " how's a
fellow to say that kind of thing ? One can't da
it, you know."

Nevertheless, my friend, you will have todo
it. I don't say that you need use those
exact words ; but you must make the sense of
them clear to her ; and you must do it, too, in
such a way as to render further discussion
impossible."

'' Oh, it's all very fine talking, and settling
things in that off-hand style ; but you don't
consider her feelings."

Her feelings ! Why, you don't suppose the
woman's in love with you, do you ? " I cried
scornfully, and perhaps a little unkindly.

Freddy scratched his head, and glanced up
at me with a queer, deprecating look. " Well,
you see — oh, you may laugh as much as you
please ; I don't mind — I believe she's fond of
me. Anyhow, she says she is."

*' I dare say."

Yes ; and when a woman gives you to-understand
that much, you can't quite — you're
in a sort of way obliged to — oh, hang It ! you

know what I mean. At first I thought she'd
go away In a few weeks, and there would be an
end of it ; but then she put off her move till
Christmas ; and now, by George ! she's put it
off again ; and Vm bound to go and see her,
you know, and — and the long and the short of
it is, Knowles "

*' The long and the short of it," interrupted
the stern moralist to whom these halting confessions
were addressed, *' is that, having been
fool enough to say some silly things which you
never meant, you haven't the pluck to go back
from them now, and prefer risking the best
chance of happiness you have ever had, or are
likely to have, to going through a disagreeable
scene."

'' You can put it in that way, if you like, I
suppose."

It doesn't greatly signify in what way it is
put," I observed. '' See here, Freddy ; if you
are really the poor, weak creature that you represent
yourself to be, if you haven't the strength
of mind to take the only straightforward course
possible, you had better do as you did on a
former occasion, and run away. Go to Egypt
or to India, and stay there until your Nina has
returned to the domestic hearth. Of course
]\Iiss Gervis will hear all about last nicrht's

entertainment. You know better than I do
whether she is Hkely to forgive you ; but it
stands to reason that she won't have anything
more to say to you, unless you break with Nina
directly."

Freddy shook his head despairingly.
*' There's no mistake about that : it's an awful
business. But I don't quite see my way to
making a bolt for it, all the same."

And when he was asked " Why not ? " he
could assign no more satisfactory reason than
that there were some things a fellow couldn't
do, you know. He stuck to this point with a
persistency which surprised and puzzled me. I
could not make out at the time, nor do I know
now, what it was that rendered him so scrupulous.
I do not believe that he was one whit
enamoured of Nina ; but I think it possible
that her witcheries, while missing his heart,
may have reached some other weak point in
his mental system — his vanity, perhaps. He
appeared, too, to have imbibed some curious,
distorted notion that it would be dishonourable
to desert her in the way that I suggested. I
expended a good deal of ineffectual eloquence
upon him. I did not want to appeal to his
love for Genevieve, and flatter him by dwelling
upon the suffering that his treachery would

bring upon her ; but when, finding all other
arguments unavailing, I finally made use of this
one, the only effect it produced was to make
him repeat his threat of hanging himself.

"There's no help for it," he sighed; *' I'm a
gone 'coon, I expect. I thought you, being a
cleverer chap than I am, might be able to show
me some way out of this ; but it seems you
can't. I shall have to let things take their
course, and trust to luck."

His wrong-headedness put me out of all
patience at last. '' Go your own way, then," I
said, " and the devil go with you ! All I can
say is that, since you are such a deplorable
moral coward, Miss Gervis is well rid of you.
Luckily she is young. She will get over this,
and marry some better man before long, I
hope."

He picked up his hat, and went away dejectedly
and quite meekly. I was half inclined
to call him back before he was down the stairs ;
but I resisted the weak impulse. I said to
myself that there were some people who required
to be ridden with a rough hand and a
somewhat cruel bit. When he reflected over
his situation in solitude, my harsh words would
produce their effect, and he would see that this
was no case for a compromise. If I had

pointed out to him a more diplomatic and less
violent method of freeing himself from his
entanglement, would not his facile nature have
]ed him to flounder still more deeply into the
meshes ? I was obliged to tell myself all this
in order to stifle certain painful misgivings that
I had made a blunder. Alas ! is not bullying
always a blunder ? I don't know whether anything
that I could have said would have saved
this misguided young man from the catastrophe
towards which he was hastening ; but I fear me
that I did not make the best use of the opportunity
that came in my way.

Freddy, as I afterwards learnt, went straight
from my rooms to a house in South Kensington
where he had arranged to meet Mrs. Gervis at
luncheon ; and very likely he told her where he
had been. Very likely, also, she found out
from him as much as she cared to know of what
had passed between us.

Shortly afterwards they both returned to their
own county, where their intimacy was not long
in exciting remark. In the course of a few
weeks all Beachborough and its vicinity were
ringing with this new scandal; and Miss Penne-father,
having taken counsel with Mrs. Pender,
had openly announced that, under existing
circumstances,, she should not care to be seen

at the Moated House. What was Nina's object
in thus damaging herself in the eyes of the
world, and bringing misery upon people who
had never injured her? It may, in the beginning,
have been a spice of pique that urged heron
; it may have been, as poor Freddy artlessly
insinuated, jealousy of Genevieve, or, as my
grandmother, with her customary plainness of
speech, averred, 'pure devilry." Who can attempt
to get to the root of the motives of
female action ? One thing is certain ; that
Mrs. Gervis's habitual respect for conventionality
deserted her in the present instance. She
seemed determined to brave public opinion, and
to take a delight in parading Freddy, attached
to her apron-string, under the shocked gaze of
Beachborough. She took to frequenting the
Esplanade at the crowded hour of the afternoon
— a thing she had never done in her life
before — and there she was to be seen daily,
marching up and down, her supposed admirer
walking beside her with downcast and hangdog
mien — a tragi-comic spectacle.

One day she was ill-advised enough to call
upon Mrs. Knowles, by whom she was received
with a grim stare, which I dare say in no way
disconcerted her. There happened to be several
other visitors in the room at the time, and the

old lady did not address Mrs. Gervis until the
latter rose to take her leave. Then Mrs.
Knowles, to use her own expression, '* spoke a
few words to her for her good."

I thought you were to have gone back to
your husband before this," said she, in a voice
sufficiently loud to be heard by all present.

No ; not just yet," answered Nina, sweetly.
''He does not wish me to return until he has
got a house for me." And in fact it was true
that Claud's prospects entitled him to think of
moving to a more fashionable quarter ; and he
had written to that effect.

'' Oh, a house ? And pray, what is the man
living in now ? A tent ? "

*' He is living in the Rue d' Amsterdam, Mrs.
Knowles," said Nina, with increasing suavity.
Would you like me to give you the number of
the house ? "

No, thank you. I can find out his address,
if I should want to write to him, as I may do,
perhaps, one of these days. If I were you
I would go over, and help to choose that new
house. I am told that people of high rank are
rather fond of keeping up separate establishments
nowadays ; but you will find that in the
middle classes, to which you and I belong, it is
still customary for wives to live with their husbands.

I hope that, the next time you come to
see me, you will bring yours with you. Goodbye."


It is easy to imagine the glee with which this
rebuke was listened to by Mrs. Bagshawe and
her kindred tabbies, and the withering glances
that were levelled at the abashed culprit as
she made her way out of the room. Nina
has since been heard to declare that, of all
the insolent and ill-bred people who dwell in
Beachborough, my revered grandmother is far
and away the worst.

And now — Fortune apparently having a
Sfrudsfe against her that afternoon — she was to
receive an expression of open censure from a
more humble section of the population. From
time immemorial it has been the custom of the
Beachborough boatmen and fishermen to congregate
in groups upon the pavement, chewing,
spitting, making use of that forcible vernacular
by means of which they have been taught to
interchange ideas, and otherwise rendering
themselves obnoxious to the passers-by. As
Mrs. Gervis proceeded along South Crescent
in the deepening twilight, she encountered a
knot of these lazy fellows, conspicuous among
whom by his high stature and broad shoulders
was our old acquaintance Tom Burvill. They

VOL. III. L

had had a fine take of fish In the morning, and
Nina, yielding to an impulse with which I, for
one, can readily sympathize, took out her
pocket-handkerchief, and burled her nose In it,
as she hurried past them. Now, Tom had been
In funds lately, and at such times the Spotted
Dog, the Red Cow, and the Jolly Mariners
generally saw a great deal more of him than
was good either for his pocket or his health.
He had, as It chanced, recently emerged from
the latter hostelry, where he had been fortifying
himself against the cold to such purpose that
his heart was light within him, and he had
become as one to whom the world is a smiling
vale of brotherhood and class distinctions as
though they were not. No Inherited residue
of the feudal spirit, therefore, deterred him from
staggering out Into the road In simulated alarm,
when he noticed Nina's gesture, and calling
out —

'Ere, Bill, come off o' that their pavement,
will yer, and let the lady go by. You ain't good
enough fur to breathe the same atmosphere
with that young 'oman. Bless your 'part,
nothing ain't good enough for she ! Must 'twas
her 'one as wouldn't do ; now 'tis her 'husband.
Essay it'll be her name next."

Want of courage has never been one of

Nina's fallings. She turned round immediately,
walked back a few paces, and faced Mr. Burvill.

What is that you say ? " she asked. " Just
be so good as to repeat it, will you."

I won't a-speaking to you, mari ; I were
a-speaking to my mate," answered Tom, a little
abashed.

'' Then, another time, when you and your
mate wish to insult ladies in the street, you had
better choose somebody else to talk about,
unless you want to be given into custody.
And, as I am speaking to you, let me recommend
you to stick to fishing, my man. It is a
more profitable business than loafing in and out
of public-houses, or even than snaring game.
I assure you I have not forgotten you ; nor has
my father. More is known about you than you
think for ; and I warn you that, after this, Mr.
Flemyng will have his eye upon you."

'will he now, mari? Well, as soon's ever
you git 'one, ses' you give my respectful booty
to yer par, and tell him to keep his eyes for
them as wants lookin' after. He ain't the only
man as has eyes ; and if him and me was to
tell all we snowed — why, 'wouldn't do neither
on us much good."

Nina did not deign to continue the altercation.
She walked away, with her head in the

air ; but she could not feel that she had got
altogether the best of it. Truth to tell, it was
nothing but pride that kept her from bursting
into tears. She was one of those people to
whom unpopularity is a grievous affliction ; and
this man's coarse insults, following upon Mrs.
Knowles's lecture, were almost too much for
her. What, after all, had she done to be
treated with such cruelty ? she demanded indignantly
of space. If Claud did not want her
in Paris, what right had any one else to interfere
in the matter ? As for her flirtation with
Freddy, it had been a very innocent sort of
flirtation, if people only knew. One must
amuse oneself in some way or other. Poor
Freddy ! he was a dear little fellow ; but he
was not worth all this fuss. He had been very
dull, too, lately, and she was beginning to get
rather tired of him. '' I think I will send him
away tomorrow," she concluded.

Nevertheless, when the morrow came, she
did not send him away. Upon further consideration,
she had remembered that there was
absolutely no other man in the neighbourhood
whom she could substitute for him ; and as she
had now no intention of leaving Beachborough
before the spring, she decided to retain him at
his post, pending the arrival of a relief.

CHAPTER VIL

A RECOGNITION.

Five people were sitting round the fire in the
Princess Ouranoff's luxurious salon one evening
late in January. The lamps behind them were
all shaded ; for the Princess, like many other
ladies whose beauty has passed its first bloom,
had a weakness for subdued light ; and the
flames, as they rose and fell among the logs,
illumining with sudden gleams the tapestry
curtains, the old pictures in their heavy frames,
the inlaid cabinets, the statuettes and bronzes,
and all the costly extravagances with which the
room was a trifle over-encumbered, illumined
also five contented faces. Two nights before,
Claud's new play had been produced at the
Theatre du Coliseum with a success surpassing
his utmost hopes, and the author had awoke,
the next morning, to find himself famous.
Therefore it was that joy reigned in this little

family party. They had dined together, the
Princess, Genevieve, Miss Potts, and Claud —
M. Poinsot, who was the fifth person present,
having become so unremitting in his visits to
the Boulevard Malesherbes of late that they
counted him as one of themselves — they had
talked of little else than the play throughout
the evening, and they were talking of it still.

'' I feel as if I had written it myself," Varna
was saying. "If you knew the torments I
have been suffering for weeks ! You may
believe me or not, as you please ; but I have
never been able to get a proper night's rest for
thinking of what was coming ; and now that we
have gained the victory, I should like to
illuminate the facade of the house for all Paris
to see'*

'' We may all be allowed to claim our small
share in the triumph," remarked Poinsot ; '' for
I am sure we have felt our share of the anxiety.
How is one to know what will please that great
baby of a public ? "

''If there has been a triumph," said Claud,
it is you whom we ought to thank for it ; for,
if it had not been for you, I should never have
been able to get a hearing at all."

** Nonsense ! What had I to do with it ? I
introduced you to Leroux a year ago, and I

promise you that he cursed me for my officiousness,
with tears in his eyes, afterwards. He
accepted your play, this time, upon his own
responsibility ; and if I had said much in its
favour, I believe he would have rejected it."

A year ago ! " echoed Genevieve, gazing at
the fire; "it hardly seems so much. Is it
really a year ago that we were all sitting here,
just as we are now, talking over the chances of
Amour et Amitief One might fancy we had
ozone back twelve months."

Except that we have to deplore some gaps
in our circle," remarked Miss Potts.

''Ah, yes; poor M. Hirsch! I wish he
could have been here. I know he would have
been as pleased as any of us. I must write tO'
him tomorrow."

'apropos, where is he, that good M.
Hirsch ? " asked Poinsot, true to his rule of
speaking well of everybody. "He was a man

of " Here M. Poinsot hesitated, searching

in vain for some appropriate term of eulogy,
and ended rather feebly with "amusing peculiarities."


The Princess made a grimace. It is possible
that M. Hirsch, in his dealings with her, may
have shown himself more peculiar than amusing.
"He is at Nice," she replied, "where I hope.

for the sake of his health, that he will remain.
It is madness for him to attempt to live in such
a climate as this."

In that case," observed Poinsot, with perfect
gravity, " we can but resign ourselves to doing
without him. But he is not the only absentee.
We all await with impatience the good news of
madame's return," he added, with a polite little
bow at Claud, as though he intended his civility,
bow and all, to be transmitted forthwith to
England.

The representative of the absent lady smiled
pleasantly, without replying. The past six
months had worked no small change in Claud
both inwardly and outwardly. From a handsome
boy he had developed into what he is
now, a singularly striking and fine-looking man.
His Roman characteristics had become more
strongly marked. He had the large limbs, the
stately bearing, the gentle, serious air, that distinguish
that ancient nobility ; but in the soft,
ox-like eyes which were his birthright, there
had sprung up a new light, not inherited but
earned — the light of conscious power. He was
not elated by his recent honours ; but he knew
that he deserved them. He knew that he had
something to say to the world, and that he had
found out how to say it. He had emerged

from his chrysalis ; the task that he had Imposed
upon himself was accomplished ; and he
could take breath and look about him, and
draw up some programme for the future. Now,
It Is so far correct to speak of the period of his
life through which he had just passed as a
chrysalis stage In that, while it had lasted, his
faculties had been so concentrated upon one
aim that they had been virtually dormant as
regarded all others. Voluntarily and deliberately
he had given up his whole heart and soul
to his work, telling himself that, when once the
battle should have been fought, he would take
up the threads of his existence where he had
dropped them, renew the honeymoon of which
the Illusions had been so roughly dispelled, and
begin a new and happier life with Nina. He
had almost forgotten the manner of their parting
; he had quite forgiven the little outbreak
of temper and weariness which had led to it ;
he had seen nothing extraordinary in his wife's
protracted absence, choosing to assume that she
entered into his feelings, and, like himself, was
only waiting for the dawn of a brighter day.
I don't know whether such a state of mind is
compatible with true love ; but Claud unquestionably
believed it to be so. And now, having
awoke from his long sleep, he found himself a

little bewildered and out of his bearings, and
searching about him for those dropped threads,
felt, as might have been expected, some slight
difficulty in laying hold upon them. He had
sent a lengthy despatch to Nina the day before,
describing the favourable reception of his play,
entering more fully than he had hitherto done
upon financial topics, and proposing to her that
she should shortly join him in his quest of some
quarters more to her taste than those of the Rue
amsterdam. Would she come ? he wondered,,
or would she prefer waiting till her new home
was ready for her to establishing herself again
in that little fourth storey with which she might
well connect some painful associations ? He
was thinking of all these things while the mellifluous
Eugene continued to roll out little civil
phrases.

It will not do to let madame attach herself
too firmly to her native soil : she would be
capable, perhaps, of robbing us of our author.
She must be reminded that he belongs to Paris
now, and that he has friends there who will not
consent to lose either him or her without a
struggle," etc., etc.

Cette chere petite ! " murmured the Princess,
who had long since ceased to think about her
bosom friend of the previous winter, if she

had not forgotten her existence altogether.
"What was that you were saying, Claud,
about moving to these parts ? I know of an
adorable little appartement in the Avenue de la
Reine Hortense — a genuine bargain."

Claude smiled : he had no desire to repeat
the disastrous experiment of putting himself
under Varlnka's guidance in his choice of a
domicile. '' My ambition does not soar so
high," he said. '' I thought of Nelly."

Nelly ! What an idea ! As If one lived
at Nelly ! But men never understand these
things. Leave it to me ; and I will fit you
up a little nest that you will be contented
with. I will begin to see about it at once,"
cried Varna, who, when she found it impossible
to cram any more furniture into her own
rooms, delighted In nothing so much as in
acting the part of agent for her neighbours.

She drew out her Ivory tablets, and began
jotting down memoranda, talking all the time
about the bargains one could effect by attending
sales, the exquisite Louis XV. chairs
which she had seen at a curiosity-shop near
the Luxembourg, and which were to be had
literally for nothing — for a mere song — and so
forth.

Claud did not try to check her, knowing

from of old the futility of such attempts, and
she chattered on until, happening to catch sight
of the clock on the mantelpiece, she saw that it
was nearly the hour at which some of her
friends might be expected to put in an appearance,
and hurried away to add a few finishing
touches to her charms.

While she was absent, a few of the men who
possessed a standing right of entry into that
hospitable salon strolled in ; among others,
Varna's latest conquest, General Karakoff, a
short, fierce-looking personage, whose high
cheekbones, small eyes, and retreating forehead
betrayed his Kalmuck origin. He professed a
great admiration for the Princess ; but it was
generally understood to be rather a love of
baccarat than of her company that caused him
to be so regular an attendant at her informal
receptions. He was not popular among his
fellow-gamesters, being a man of high and
peremptory ways, and one who bore losses in
no meek spirit. About a dozen people in all
were chatting round the fire when Varna reappeared
; and at the moment that she did so
another gentleman in evening dress was seen
entering at the further end of the room. No
one recognized him, as he threaded his way
leisurely between the tables and chairs ; but

presently a flash from the burning logs disclosed
the familiar features of M. Hirsch.

You ! " ejaculated the Princess in the same
tone of dismayed surprise with which she had
greeted our friend upon a former occasion.

"Alas! yes, madame. 'On en revient totijotirs
ct ses premieres amours! You see how vain is
the attempt to live away from you. I have
been courting oblivion at Monte Carlo with the
usual discouraging result, and I return to you
for sympathy and consolation. You see before
you a complete wreck — heart, health, and
pocket, all at the lowest possible ebb," concluded
Hirsch, with his old grin and his old
paroxysm of coughing.

The Princess shrugged her shoulders, but
made the best of a bad job. Most of those
present were already acquainted with M.
Hirsch ; she introduced him to General
Karakoff, whom he had not met before. That
warrior bowed in stiff military fashion, and
measured the intruder from head to foot with a
searching look, as if he knew of something to
his disadvantage. The General had no love
for his travelling compatriots, the greater part
of whom, he was wont to assert, were nothing
better than adventurers ; and this one, as weare
aware, was not blessed with a physiognomy

calculated to reassure the suspicious. Hirsch
acknowledged the General's scrutiny with one
of those ineffably impudent stares which he
knew so well how to assume, and then, turning
away, sank into an arm-chair beside Genevieve,
who inquired kindly after his health.

I thank you, mademoiselle," he answered ;
'' my health is much what it generally is ; that
is to say, as bad as it can well be. The doctors
tell me I may die any day ; but they have been
telling me that for the last two years, and I do
not feel that I am any worse than I was in the
summer — a little feebler perhaps. To confess
the truth, I was not quite candid in what I said
just now to our dear and amiable Princess. Sofar
from having lost money at Monaco, I have
been having an unusual run of luck there ; nor
was it for the pleasure of meeting her, nor because
I had any anxiety that she should soothe
my last moments, that I quitted that little
paradise. I hope you will not think me very
presumptuous, mademoiselle, if I say that it
was a longing to see you once more that
brought me back to Paris. When one has only
experienced disinterested kindness from one
person in the course of a lifetime, one cannot
help craving for a repetition of the sensation.
It is your own fault that you are annoyed by

the company of an old vagabond. Tell me ;
have you good news from England ? "

Genevieve did not reply for a moment ; she
was always a little shy of her odd confidant at
first. But seeing that he had noticed her
hesitation and looked hurt by it, she hastened
to answer him. '' You know, I never have any
direct news," she said ; " but Claud hears
sometimes."

And all Is well ? Come ! I begin to seeland.
We are already well into our second
year, are we not ? I must make an effort to
live to the end of it. I have a fancy that, if I
could first see you in possession of all that you
wish for, I could depart more willingly for — for
wherever it is that we depart for. So our
solemn D'Arblay is married, I hear."

*' Yes," answered Genevieve, laughing a
little. " They said it was a mariage de conveyance
; but I believe he is perfectly happy with
his wife. I am so glad. I always liked him."

So did I ; although I believe he honoured
me with a noble dislike and contempt. To be
sure, he was not peculiar In that. Do you
know, mademoiselle, who is the only person,
besides yourself, who has treated me like a
human being since that evening when I first
met you at your father's gates ? "

Of course Genevieve knew ; and of course
she was ready to listen to as many praises of
the absent paragon as M. Hirsch chose to
pour into her ear. And so for a long time this
wily sorcerer kept her enchanted with reiteration
of the simplest spells — himself enchanted by
her innocence, her freshness, and the halo of
love and faith that was about her, as one who
has been for years pent up in narrow streets
feels his heart swell and tears rise into his eyes
at the sight of the woods in spring.

Nevertheless, since acquired tastes are ever
the strongest, and the indulgence of sentiment,
though a sweet relaxation, cannot be trusted
to satisfy indefinitely the wants of natures
accustomed to more exciting stimulants,
M. Hirsch began, at length, to move restlessly
upon his chair, and to cast sidelong glances
towards the violet velvet poitiers behind which
three-fourths of the company had already disappeared
; and Genevieve, perceiving his
hankering, was prompt to set him free.

She got up, saying, '' I have kept you a great
deal too long. Varna will be wondering what
has become of you, and will think you very
rude if you do not join the others."

Whereupon Hirsch, with a deprecatory shrug
at his own weakness, answered, '' Oh, rather

than be thought rude ! " — and withdrew, leaving
Genevieve, her brother, and Miss Potts in sole
occupancy of the room.

I wish you would let us hear your violin,
Gen," said Claud suddenly. " It is months
since I have listened to anything In the shape
of music, except that abominable barrel-organ
which grinds out ' Le pied qui r'mue ' under
my windows three times a week."

But Genevieve demurred, alleging that the
card-players would hear her.

"What — ^throuofh all those doors and curtains
? And if they did ? I don't think they
would be so much to be pitied, do you, Miss
Potts ? "

So Genevieve went away, and returning presently
with her beloved Instrument, played to
them — subdued, flowing melodies, songs without
words — and the souls of those three were
filled with peace.

Did not all things, Indeed, promise hopefully
for them ? And were they not justified in
spinning webs of fancy, and dreaming dreams
of the happy days to come ? Even Miss Potts
may have had her modest castle in the air, her
vision of independence and three rooms of her
own in the neighbourhood of a London square,
and of occasional visits to a certain country-vol.

III. M

house, where children with Genevieve's eyes
would run out to meet her as she drove up
from the station. For castle-building, happily,
is not the prerogative of youth alone, and it
would go hard with us mortals If we could not
sometimes deceive ourselves with vain imaginings.
These dreamers, therefore, sat comfortably
nursing their several illusions until the fire
had burnt itself down to a heap of white ashes
and the hour for beauty-sleep was long past.
Then the ladles went off to bed ; while Claud,
whose avocations had accustomed him of late
to take his rest in the morning watches,
sauntered towards the card-room.

He pushed aside the curtain, and passed into
that hot and brightly lighted little room almost
unobserved. Poinsot looked up, and nodded
to him as he entered ; but no one else seemed
to notice him. The air was heavy and obscured
with the smoke of the Russian cigarettes which
Varna used herself and provided for her
guests. Claud helped himself to one, and,
sinking down upon a divan, watched the
players.

It was not a pleasing spectacle, nor one of a
nature to promote respect for the rulers of
creation. The Princess's friends were for the
most part hardened gamesters, men of the

world, who had honos aofo learnt to receive Fortune
soberly and resign her gifts, without a
frown, if she shook her swift wings. They
would have thought it a disgraceful thing to
curse and swear over their losses, like that barbarian
Karakoff; and no doubt, in the earlier
part of the evening, their bearing was as impassive
as the laws of good breeding could
require, while at no time did they offend byword
of mouth. But as the night grew old,
they were wont to lose, or relax to some extent,
their command of countenance ; and so it was
that Claud saw a circle of faces very different
from those which had surrounded him in the
drawing-room a few hours before. Some were
pale, some flushed, nearly all were somewhat
agitated, and all wore a disfiguring expression
of greed. M. Hirsch, who, judging by the
heap of gold and notes before him, had been
winning largely, was perhaps the least altered
of the company ; but even he had a hungry,
wolfish look. Varlnka was almost hideous.
She also was apparently among the winners ;
but the lust for gain was more strikingly
marked on her features than on those of any of
her neighbours. Her blonde locks were dishevelled,
her eyes staring eagerly at the cards,
the muscles of her cheeks drawn up, disclosing

her teeth ; a multitude of Ones and wrinkles
showed themselves about her forehead and
temples. She looked double her age at that
moment. And yet Heaven knows that love of
money was not one of her failings. Immediately
after rising from the table, she would
have handed over her winnings intact to anyone
who had chosen to beg for them, and would
never have given the matter a second thought ;
but gambling was her ruling passion, and the
demon of play her master. It consumed her,
when she was under its influence, with a feverish
craving to win ; it made her eyes glisten and
her slim fingers hook themselves at the sight of
gold ; it robbed her of all her graces, and metamorphosed
her from a woman still young and
attractive into a very hag.

Claud averted his eyes from her, with something
of a shudder, to look at General Karakofif,
who was only ridiculous. The General, whose
luck, it must be confessed, was as bad as his
temper, had lost a great deal of money, and
took care that everybody should know it. His
imprecations were poured forth in a continuous
low growl, like the rumbling of distant thunder,
rising, every now and then, into a louder explosion,
as he dived into his pockets and dashed
down the stake he had lost. He flung the

money across the table to the winners as if he
would fain have thrown it at their heads ; his
bloodshot eyes glared angrily about him in
search of a quarrel. But these amiable little
ways were too well known in the Boulevard
Malesherbes to excite any attention ; and it
was only M. Hirsch who responded to the
General's outbursts by an exaggerated politeness,
by an assumed timorousness, and by
grateful acknowledgements of the sums handed
over to him, which redoubled, as they were
probably intended to do, the ire of that luckless
warrior.

Don't thank me, sir ! " bawled out Karakoff
at last. " Do you think I wish to present you
with my money, sacre bleu ? You have won — •
so much the better for you, and the worse forme
! There is no need to talk about it."

Varna looked up, with a mechanical soothing
phrase — " A lions, allons, mon cher Ghidi^al,
ne nous archons pas'' — and the game proceeded.

After a time Claud wearied of the bull-baiting
entertainment provided by M. Hirsch, and perceiving
that it was three o'clock in the morning
and that no one showed any disposition to
move, got up, stretched himself, and was preparing
to retire quietly, when he was arrested
by a singular exclamation — a sort of stifled roar

from General Karakoff. He turned round,
and saw the General standing up, leaning across
the table, his face purple, his bristly moustache
twitching, and his right arm outstretched in an
attitude of denunciation towards M. Hirsch.
For an instant Claud had a horrible fear that
that unprincipled person had been detected in
the act of withdrawing a card from his sleeve ;
but it was not anything quite so bad as that,
seemingly, that was the matter.

"I have it! — I have it!" General Karakoff
was spluttering. " The moment I set eyes
upon you, I could have sworn that I had seen
you before ; and now I know you. Look at
me, sir ! Do you recognize me ? "

Varna looked frightened ; but Hirsch, who
was perfectly unmoved, complied with the request
addressed to him, and, after a very long
and deliberate scrutiny of the General, made a
slight negative gesture. '' I never saw M. le
General in my life before," he said urbanely.
M. le General has the happiness to possess a
face which, once seen, would not be easily forgotten."


Ah, you do not remember me ! Think
again — Karakoff, formerly lieutenant in the
40th Cossacks."

Hirsch shook his head.

I will refresh your memory," cried the
other.

He tore off his coat, threw it on to the chair
behind him, and, rolling up his shirt-sleeve, displayed
a hirsute arm, on which the scar of an
old wound was plainly discernible. '' Look at
that ! Ah, rascal ! you gave me something to
remember you by when your cursed bullet shattered
the bone of my left arm. No thanks to
you that I have all my limbs to-day ! "

I have shot so many men, first and last,"
remarked M. Hirsch languidly. " I do not recognize
the arm of M. le General anymore than
his face."

Claud could not help laughing at the man's
cool impudence ; but the Princess had turned
pale, and was clasping and unclasping her hands
nervously.

General Karakoff dragged down his shirt-sleeve,
and put on his coat again. '' Whether
you know me or not, I know you," he said.
Gentlemen, that man is an escaped criminal —
an assassin, who would have taken the life of
the Emperor, if he had not been arrested intime.
His name is Ladislaus, Count Ponetzky
and he is the husband of the lady who sits
beside him."

Here was a pretty disclosure ! The silence

of consternation fell upon the company ; and it
is to be hoped that the General enjoyed the
success of his coup de theatre. He looked
round him for a minute or two with a malevolent
smile of triumph ; then, finding that no
attempt was made to impugn his statement, he
made ready to depart.

'' Madame," said he, bowing low to Varna,,
I have the honour to wish you good evening.
I am willing to believe that, at the time when
you contracted a fresh marriage, you supposed,,
like others, that this miscreant was dead. I
deplore your present unfortunate position ; but
I do not disguise from you that I shall denounce
your husband at the Embassy in a few
hours' time, as it is my duty to do."

And with that, he strutted out of the room.

The astonished gamblers sat agape, none
choosing to be the first to speak. Varna's
little curly head was bowed down upon the
table, her face hidden in her hands. Hirsch,.
with legs outstretched, hands thrust deep into
his trousers pockets, and mouth widened from
ear to ear, was staring straight in front of him
into vacancy, and it seemed that consciousness
of the humour which is an ingredient in all
complete catastrophes was upon him. Thus
they sat, with the scattered cards before them.

each one silent and motionless in his place, like
the guests of Polycrates turned to stone ; and
how long this painful situation was protracted,
and in what manner it came to an end, and what
was said, and whether anything was said at all
these are details of which Claud has never
been able to render an account. All he knows
is that, after a time, Hirsch and he and the unfortunate
lady whom he could no longer call his
stepmother were free from the presence of
strangers, and that he had dropped into a chair
opposite the couple, and was awaiting explanations
in bewilderment.

Varna, with her face still hidden in her
hands, was sobbing out disjointed lamentations.

*' What have I done that such cruel things

o

should happen to me ? . . . Never shall I
dare to show my face in Paris again ! . . . I
will not survive this disgrace ! I will drown
myself in the Seine ! I will open a vein in
my arm ! . . . After all these years, and the
money that I have spent, and the incessant
anxiety and misery of it, that everything should
be discovered at last by such an extraordinary
accident ! It is the most cruel thing that was
ever heard of! . . . And now, too, when it
seemed as if the end might be so near ! " she
added ingenuously.

Hirsch made a queer grimace at these words**
Too true ! " he said. '* It is a shabby trick of
Fortune. I ought certainly to have died last
winter. One must admit that her luck has
been bad. I thought to myself that something
must be going to happen when I saw how we
both went on winning the whole night through."

He looked at the pile of gold that lay before
him, swept it off the table and pocketed it,
remarking, " There is balm in the memory of
having despoiled that hideous animal of a
Tartar." Then, after a pause, ** I suppose you
will wish to have the history of this business."

Claud signified that, if quite convenient, he
should be glad to have some further information
; and M. Hirsch, having lighted a cigarette
with some deliberation, leant back, and* composed
himself into the attitude of one about to
embark upon a lengthy recital

CHAPTER VIII.

A RETROSPECT.

^' The story of my life," began Hirsch — or
Ponetzky, as he must now be called, " Is an
affecting narrative full of profitable lessons,
which those who look below the surface of
things might moralize and weep over by the
hour together. I regret sometimes that it never
occurred to me to write an autobiography, or
at least to keep a rough diary, which might
have been handed over, after my death, to
some one like yourself, who could have given it
to the world, converted Into graceful language
and Interspersed with fitting reflections. You
would have found it Interesting, I think, as a
study of the gradual deterioration of a character
not inherently depraved, under various adverse
influences, of which want of money has been
the first and foremost. Had I been born rich,
I can see no reason v/hy I should not have

blossomed out Into a philanthropist, and assuredly
I should never have gained that disastrous
knowledge of my fellow-men which led
me, many years ago, to discard conscience In
my dealings with them as a cumbrous luxury,,
fatal to all hope of self-advancement, not to say
bare self-support. For, little as you may be
disposed to believe It, It is a fact that I was
once young, and as Innocent as you are to-day.
I am afraid you would hardly listen with patience
to an account of my early years — which Is a
pity, as one would fain say a good word for
oneself, and this Is In all probability the last
chance I shall have In my life of doing so ; but
I spare you, and will pass over all that I did
and all that happened to me up to the time of
my marriage with the Princess Ouranoff, when
I had lost my youth and had preserved only a
few traces of my innocence.

'ewe met in Dresden, to which place I had
moved rather hurriedly a short time before. I
was not precisely a political refugee, since
nothing had been proved against me ; but I
had had the honour of several domiciliary visits
from the police, and I considered it best to step
across the western frontier in order to avoid
taking a longer journey towards the eastward
at the expense of the Government. I had spent

very nearly the last rouble of my patrimony ;
I was, as I always have been, unfit for any of
the occupations by which men earn an honest
livelihood, and I was seriously thinking of
embracing the career of a highway robber, when
the Princess appeared upon the scene, like a
good fairy, and relieved me of all my perplexities.
I married her uniquely for her money ;
not in the least degree out of love, which is a
folly that has never troubled me much since my
student days. I have, perhaps, the appearance
of being a little ungallant in saying this in her
presence ; but we have no secrets from one
another ; and she found out long ago, what she
might have known at the time, that nothing
short of the direst necessity would have persuaded
me into marrying a Russian. No !
that is a thing that I would not have done — not
if I had been as much in love with her as I
understand that your father was. You, who
were born free and behoof to a free nation. It Is
impossible for you to conceive the hatred of a
conquered people for its butchers and hangmen.
It has been the strongest passion of my life ;
I believe it to be the strongest passion of which
the human heart is capable. Even now — old
as I am, and at death's door, and little as it can
matter to me what happens in a world that I

shall be out of so soon — I swear to you that If
I were to receive an order tomorrow to go to
Petersburg and kill one of their rulers, I would
start on the errand with joy. I would have
killed that brute beast of a Karakoff to-night, if
we had met in South America, instead of ina
Paris salon and I would have gloried in it.
Abolition la peine de mort, mais que messieurs
les assassins commencent ! ' Yes ! and did not
the assassins of Poland merit death ? Ah, if
you had seen the infamies that I have seen ! —
fathers torn from their families, children dragged

from their parents Do you know how many

Poles were sent to Siberia in the year 1832
alone ? Eighty thousand — not less. Those
are things which one does not forget."

The man's mean features were transfigured
for the moment ; his voice, ordinarily husky
and low, rang through the room ; he paused,
trembling and gasping for breath. Then an
access of his terrible cough laid hold upon him,
shaking him as a terrier shakes a rat, overpowering
him, so that he sank back in his
chair, his arms dropping and the perspiration
breaking out upon his livid face.

A jug of lemonade stood upon the table.
Claud poured some hastily into a glass, and
handed it to him ; and he drank it off, and so,

with closed eyes, fell Into a state of exhaustion
so like death, that the Princess started up and
peered at him affrighted. Presently, however,
he raised himself, and lighting another cigarette
with a shaking hand, resumed : —

'' At the time I was speaking of I belonged
to a society of which I do not wish to say more
than that its rules were not framed to suit
people who like to live a quiet life and do what
they please with their own. It was no sooner
known that the millions of the Princess Ouranoff
were in my clutches than I promise you that I
had to give an account of them ; and what with
constant demands for money and sudden absences
which I was unable to explain, it was
not long before matrimonial harmony between
my wife and myself was a thing of the past."

Varna sighed heavily, and raised her eyes
to the ceiling. " Ah, if that had been all ! "

Ponetzky glanced at her. " Eh ! she had
other causes for complaint — who denies it .-* If
ever there was an ill-used and unlucky woman
upon the face of the earth, it is this poor dear
Princess ; and it is a fortunate thing that nature
has gifted her with a temperament which
enables her to lay aside her troubles at a
moment's notice. But there is no need to
waste time in talking about that. Let it be

agreed, once for all, that she married an unprincipled
adventurer, and that she has had to
suffer for her folly.

"It was In the autumn of 1858 that I made
my way to Warsaw, where preparations were
in progress for the great Insurrection which was
always hatching and always being adjourned,
and which did not finally break out until five
years later. I had done what was required of
me, and was intending to slip quietly over the
border again, when I allowed the police to get
hold of me In the stupidest manner in the
world. There Is a vile spirit, distilled in the
country, which was a snare to me in those days,
and I dare say that It was because, from considerations
of prudence, I had vowed not to let
a drop of liquor pass my lips until I should be
safe back In Germany that I let temptation todo
the forbidden thing get the better of me.
You will hardly believe that I was persuaded
to sit down and drink with a couple of strangers ;
but so it was. I don't know whether they
drugged me or not : In any case, it appears
that I told them more than enough to settle my
business ; and when I came to myself, I was
securely handcuffed In a dark cell. One arrives
at such positions by many roads ; one leaves
them only by one — that which leads to Siberia.

You have heard of those melancholy processions
of prisoners which are to be seen, from time to
time, passing through the villages of East
Russia, escorted by troops of Cossacks. The
world has always dispensed a great deal of
sympathy (which is a cheap article) upon these
interesting exiles ; some of whom, however, get
through the journey comfortably enough, riding
in sledges, wrapped in furs, by day, and sleeping
in good beds at night. I was among those
who perform it on foot, with an occasional encouragement
to step out in the shape of a cut
of the whip or a prick from a lance. I can tell
you that, before I had been a week on the
march, I had resolved fifty times to make a
dash to escape, with the certainty of being shot
down for my pains ; for my feet were soft, and
every step was an agony to me. Unfortunately
for the Princess and for others, I delayed putting
this design into execution from day to day;
and destiny willed it that the cold should be so
intense, one night, as to prevent me from sleeping
on the floor of the wooden station-house
where some hundred of us were huddled up,
dead beat, after a long day's tramp over the
snow. I was lying there, thinking what a
sweet delight it would be to beat out the brains
of the officer who was stretched across the

VOL. III. N

doorway, snoring like a pig, when I caught
sight of a horse-pistol which was lying on the
ground beside him, close to his hand. On the
wall was one of those lighted wicks floating ina
glass of oil which one sees hanging before
shrines. The feeble ray that streamed, from
this caught the brass mounting of that antiquated
weapon, and gave me all kinds of
strange thoughts. With presence of mind and
a loaded pistol, one may go far. I fell to wondering
whether it was loaded, and imagining
what I would do with it if I could get hold of
it, and picturing myself shooting the sentry
outside and vanishing before the alarm could
be given, till at last the desire to feel the thing
in my hand became an irresistible craving
which I had no choice but to obey. I crawled
stealthily across the floor on my hands and
knees, and presently I had grasped the pistol,
and was kneeling beside the sleeping officer,
listening to his heavy breathing. He was no
other than the amiable Karakoff, it seems ; but
I never, to my knowledge, heard his name
before I came to Paris, and as for his face, the
Creator did not think it worth while to make
more than one mould for those animals ; and
when I told the General to-night that his countenance,
once seen, would not be easily forgotten,

I only meant to imply that its ugliness
would always make it conspicuous in civilized
society.

*' He troubled me greatly — that sleeping
beauty. I calculated that, if I could get outside
the door and shoot the sentry dead, the
chances were about one in a hundred of my
getting clear away ; but to cross the threshold
without moving that clumsy carcase was a sheer
impossibility. In this strait an idea occurred
to me. I bent over my Cossack, and began
shaking him gently by the arm. When he
opened his eyes, he saw me squatting beside
him, with my finger raised to my lips, and the
muzzle of the pistol within an inch of his forehead.


How would you have acted in his place ?
As any intelligent being would have done
under the circumstances, I imagine. You
would have held your tongue, and recognized
that I was master of the situation. But that
Karakoff can never have been a man of the
smallest savoir-vivre. He flung himself upon
me, yelling as though the day of judgment had
come ; and I own that I was so unprepared for
this preposterous behaviour that I sprang back,
and did not pull the trigger. I recovered myself,
however, as the sentry rushed in. I fired,

without aiming, at Karakoff ; I saw him reel ;
I brought down the' butt of the pistol with all
my strength behind the ear of the soldier, who
luckily had not all his wits about him, and I
fled out into night, with the other Cossacks,
whom the scrimmage had aroused, after me,
like a pack of wolves.

Never until that moment had I had any
idea of the agility that was in me. The station-house
stood, as those buildings always do, at
the extremity of the village, and I had the
sense not to make for the open country, where
I must infallibly have been captured, but to
dart down the street ; and, what with the help
of the darkness, what with doubling and
crouching like a hare, I managed to baffle my
pursuers for the time. When I thought it was
safe, I headed back for the station-house, knowing
that I should gain a little time in that way,
and slipped across the road to a kind of farmyard
opposite, where there were outbuildings
and sheds and a mud wall which surrounded
the village. I ran towards this wall, purposely
making as deep footprints as I could in the
hard snow, and as soon as I had reached it, I
took off my boots, and stole into a shed, where
I concealed myself behind a stack of wood.
There I remained, shivering and three parts

frozen, until morning. The Cossacks never
came near me. I heard them galloping down
the street and round the walls outside ; but
they did not enter the yard ; and at length there
was silence.

''If you think that I was rejoicing in my
escape, it is because you have never experienced
the effect of intense cold upon the courage. I
do not mind telling you that, long before dawn,
I had not a grain of spirit left in me. The
convoy, I knew, would not leave the place
before every nook and cranny in it had been
searched ; to creep out into the country would
have been certain death ; and as for my finding
any one charitable enough to take the risk of
concealing me, that was a forlorn hope indeed.
Still, it was the only one that remained to me.
With the first streak of daylight, a woman
came out of the house to get wood ; and to
her I disclosed myself, fully expecting that she
would instantly fly across to the station-house
and give the alarm. But she proved to be one
of the few people I have met on my way through
the world who have possessed both good hearts
and good heads. Never a word did she speak;
but she beckoned me to follow her into the
house, and pulling up a trap-door in the flooring
by an iron ring, pointed downwards.

You may believe that I wanted no second
bidding to hurry down the ladder which led to
the cellar beneath. Presently this truly admirable
woman brought me a loaf and a bottle
half full of spirits, and whispered, * Unhook the
ladder, and drag it away out of sight.' This
I did ; and she immediately shut down the
cellar-flap, and left me in total darkness. The
bread and the good vodki put heart into me.
I must have been some hours in the cellar, I
suppose ; but the time did not seem long ; and
at length I heard the trampling overhead which
I had been expecting. The Cossacks had
struck my trail ; but, finding no footprints on
the further side of the wall, had detected the
trick, which indeed I had only intended to be a
temporary blind. They had now settled in
their wise heads that I must be somewhere in
the house ; and the consternation of my good
woman at the idea that there could be a man
concealed about her premises was a thing to
listen to with delight. And then it was that
her daring and wisdom became manifest; for,
after taking them into every room and opening
every cupboard in her establishment, she
stopped of her own accord above the cellar-flap,
and pulling it up roughly, let in a streak
of grey light. * What if he were down there V

K>

cried she. * How would you have a man jump
into such a hole as that without breaking his
legs ? ' asked a voice which I recognized as
that of the captain in command of the troop.
It is true ! We never use the place ; but it
seems to me that there used to be a ladder
there. Ivan, was there not a ladder here
once ? * ' You know very well,' returned a
grumbling voice, which I took to be that of
her husband, ' that the shortest ladder we
possess is twenty feet long, and that is outside
in the barn.' So the trap-door was shut down
again with a bang ; and my Cossacks marched
out, leaving me rubbing my hands and praising
the cunning of this worthy couple.

However, there is no character but has its
small defects ; and theirs was an excess of caution.
For four days and nights they kept me down
there in the dark, lowering buckets of hot water
to me to keep me from freezing to death, but
refusing to listen to my entreaties to be allowed
to return to the surface. * All in good time,'
they said ; and I am bound to confess that in
harbouring an escaped prisoner under their roof
they were exposing themselves to the chance of
highly disagreeable consequences, and giving
proof of a disinterestedness of which not many
peasants would be capable. All this did not

prevent me from cursing their prudence from
the bottom of my heart; for to sit twirling
your thumbs in a dark cellar, with the thermometer
below zero, for ninety-six hours at a
stretch, is the very devil ; and if you doubt me,
try ten hours of it, and see how it amuses you.
When at last I did ascend from those infernal
shades, it was clear that my good hosts were
less anxious to listen to my assurances of gratitude
than to get rid of me. To take myself
off was the best return I could make to them
for their humanity ; and it is curious how often
in my life I have found this form of thanks the
only one likely to be acceptable.

"When I tell you that the village where these
events occurred was situated some fifty verses
to the eastward of Ekaterineburg — that I left it
with literally nothing in my pocket, except
seventy-five copes, which the farmer handed
to me, after a little hesitation — that it was long
before I ventured to approach any city — that at
last I reached Sebastopol, which must be at
least six hundred verses from Ekaterineburg —
that I worked my way thence down the Volga
and the Don to Taganrog, and that for two
years afterwards I lived from hand to mouth in
Turkey, in the Danubian principalities, and in
Austria ; — when you have realized the meaning

of this, you will understand that I must have
gone through adventures enough to fill a
volume. I am not going to fatigue you with a
recital of them. If a man wants to live, and
can neither earn, beg, nor borrow enough to
keep life in him, what is he to do ? I have
already told you that I was not overburdened
with delicate scruples even in my prosperous
days : in the course of those two years I may
say, without flattering myself, that I became as
accomplished a blackguard as could have been
found in Europe. You will wonder, perhaps,
why I never wrote to my wife. To tell you
the truth, I was cowed. I thought I had killed
that officer, and I had no wish to fall a second
time into the hands of the Russian authorities.
Besides, I had broken finally with the past, as
I thought. Circumstances had so degraded
me, body and mind, that I could trace no connection
between myself and the man who used
to call himself Count Ponetzky, and to put on a
clean shirt every morning; nor did I greatly
care about standing in his shoes. Give me
plenty of brandy to drink, fools to swindle, and
a roof of some sort or kind to cover me, and I
asked for nothing more.

It was destiny or chance, not any will of
mine, that put me in a position to re-assert my

matrimonial rights. The great charm of an
adventurers Hfe Hes in its uncertainty and its
swift leaps from misery to fortune and back
again. In the year iso a run of luck landed
me at Wiesbaden, with a decent coat on my
back and enough money in my pocket to enable
me to amuse myself at trente-et-quaranfe. I
had not been there a week when I had the
pleasure of seeing my wife enter the Curtail on
the arm of a gentleman of distinguished appearance.
They looked so happy together that I
was quite prepared for the information which
was given to me at their hotel, that they were a
newly married couple. I ought, you will say,
to have vanished instantly. Not a doubt of it ;
but after what I have told you, you can hardly
suppose that I should trouble myself much with
the question of what I ought to do. What I
did do was to waylay the Princess on her way
back from the springs, the next morning, and to
reveal my identity. Upon my word, I was
very sorry for her. I heard from her that a
circumstantial account of my decease had
reached Petersburg, where I had been represented
as having been shot dead while making
a desperate effort to escape. It does a man no
good, you understand, to admit that he has let
a prisoner slip through his fingers ; and I daresay

the brave Karakoff got compensation for
his broken arm. She offered me anything —
everything — to go away, and not let myself be
seen again ; and naturally I had no objection
to make to such an arrangement. But, on
descending to details, we were unable at once
to agree as to money matters, and so we had
one or two Interviews — which was imprudent
and unfortunate. For It seems that, in the
course of one of them, Mr. Gervis chanced to
catch sight of us, with our heads close together,
engaged in earnest discourse, and he formed
the conclusion which I suppose that most
husbands would have formed in such a case.
When he questioned the Princess, she allowed
him to think that his suspicions had some
foundation : what could she do ? I really
regretted it extremely. Your father, It appears,
is not one who forgives easily. You know
upon what terms he and the Princess have
lived all these years ; and now you know the
original cause of their breach. What additional
causes may have arisen since, I cannot pretend

to say "

There have been no additional causes,"
broke in the Princess indignantly — 'none, at
least, of the kind that you mean. But you
always believe the worst of everybody ; It Is

your nature to do so. Claud, you see what this
man has been to me — how he has spoilt my
whole life. But he has not told you all. Ever
since that day at Wiesbaden he has been a
continual burden to me — and what a burden !
mon Dieu, what a burden ! If he had invested
all the sums he has had from me, he would be
able to live like a prince now. Often I could
not give what he asked for — literally I had not
enough. I was compelled to apply to your
father : you may guess whether it was very
pleasant to me to do that. That poor Gervis !
I have said hard things of him sometimes, because
he irritated me, and because he is a man
whom one cannot make angry ; but he has
never refused me money, and he has never asked
me questions. He detests me, and no wonder !
but, in spite of all that has passed, I shall
always consider him as my husband. As for
the other, he has told you himself that he is not
the same man whom I married so long ago.
Oh, if you knew the frights he has given me,
the promises he has made and broken, the
times and times when he has only wanted a
hundred thousand francs or so to make his
fortune, after which he was to trouble me no
more. And then the same history over again !
Would you believe that he bought mines — gold

and silver mines — out there in Peru ? A droll
kind of mines ! The gold went into them,
instead of coming out of them, and it was I
who had to supply it. And all this in vain !
Am I not right to say that I will kill myself ? "

Varna fell back into her former despairing
attitude, and Ponetzky,who, during this tirade, had
been nursing his knee, and watching, with a perfectly
unmoved countenance, the smoke from his
cigarette as It drifted upwards, resumed : —

The Princess has summed up the history of
fifteen years with admirable conciseness, and
has left me little more to say. I assure you it
has been with unfeigned regret that I have
caused her so much annoyance at different
times ; but necessity has no law. The silver of
the Ural Mountains has found its way to the
Andes, and has remained there. Who can fight
against Fate*? The uncertainty of mining
speculations has been so brought home to the
English nation of late years that I am sure I
need not dwell upon the subject : my repeated
failures explain themselves. I may, however,
say that I should have kept my promise of not
returning to Europe If, about two years ago, the
Princess had not seen fit to break off all communication
with me and to. refuse me any
further aid."

*' I had sent you a fortune the year before,
and you had promised that you would never
ask me for more as long as you lived ! " cried
Varna.

Quite so. I am explaining my conduct,
not justifying it. Now, it so happened that
I was at the last gasp at that time. I just
managed to pay my passage to Southampton,
and landed in England almost without a sou. It
was then that I made my way to Southlands on
foot. From what I had been told, I fancied
that I should find the Princess there, and when
I learnt that she had left, I was at my wits' end.
In fact, I was reduced to such extremities that
the only plan I could hit upon was to try and
get the price of his liberty out of Mr. Gervis.
I accordingly informed him that I was in possession
of an important secret, and that I would
engage to set him free from his* wife in consideration
of a certain sum "

You did ? You actually dared to do that ? "
exclaimed Varna. '' Is it possible that there
can be people so wicked and so treacherous ! "

Which, however, he declined to pay.

He was very insulting, I remember ; and I was
fool enough to lose my temper with him. Well ;
he has got his freedom now, without paying
for it."

There was a long silence, during which Claud
tried to collect his ideas. His chief feeling was
sone of great compassion for Varna, upon
whom the visitations of Providence seemed to
him to have fallen with most unmerited severity ;
and what possible comfort could be offered
to her in her affliction was a problem beyond
his powers of solution. He had been scarcely
shocked by the shamelessness of M. Hirsch,
which had struck him as too exaggerated to be
genuine ; and indeed it may well be that that
cynical gentleman had chosen to depict himself
in his darkest colours ; though I see no reason
to suppose that he had related the facts of his
history otherwise than correctly.

I am more sorry for all this than I can tell
you," Claud said at length.

'* The fortune of life," remarked Ponetzky
sententiously. ** There is not much use in
being sorry."

Not much, indeed. Claud rose, and took a
turn or two up and down the room, stroking his
chin in perplexity. " The question is," said he,
what is to be done next ? "

There is only one thing to be done," cried
Varna, starting up also ; " I must leave for
St. Petersburg instantly. The Emperor cannot
refuse me an audience. That wretch will

certainly go to the Embassy, as he said ; and
he v/ill tell his own story. What a misfortune
that he should have lost money here ! They
are sure to think that the whole thing is a plot.
I wonder whether they will telegraph. In any
case, his Majesty will see that I have lost no
time "

She stopped in front of a mirror, and uttered
a cry of dismay — " Heavens ! how frightful I
look ! This is the appearance one gets by
sitting up all night and abandoning oneself
to these violent emotions. I wonder whether
Annette is awake — I wonder how long it will
take her to pack up ? "

Already she had forgotten her threat of
suicide. The colour was returning to her
cheeks ; she was bustling about excitedly, eager
to begin her preparations for a move. " I shall
never see Paris again — never ! " she exclaimed
suddenly ; and the tears rushed into her eyes
attain at this terrible thought. But she brushed
them away. " I have not the time to cry.
Yes ; I must start immediately. Claud, there is
an Indicate in the drawing-room. I must
take the first train."

And you ? " asked Claud, turning to ,
who was leaning back in his chair ina
posture of calm repose.

'' I ? Oh, I shall return to Nice In all probability
; but I am in no hurry. General Kara-off
may denounce me at every Embassy on
earth, if he pleases : it is not in their power to
molest me. The Russian Government would
not think of demanding my extradition ; and if
it were demanded, it would certainly be refused.
The case of the Princess is different. She has
estates, which are liable to confiscation, and she
would act prudently in seeing the Emperor, and
in convincing him — as no doubt she will do
without difficulty — that she has had no share in
any treasonable iniquities of which I may have
been guilty, and that she deplores my existence
as sincerely as any one can do. We are not
likely to meet again after this, and I will now
bid you good-bye. If I might do so without too-much
presumption, I would ask you to take my
farewell also to your sister, with the grateful
thanks of an outcast whom her kindness has
sometimes allowed to forget for an hour or two
what he is. I will not ask you to shake hands
with me."

The fact is that Claud did hesitate for a
moment ; and then, feeling ashamed of his
hesitation, shook the poor rascal by the hand
rather more warmly than he would otherwise
have done ; but without speaking. While he

VOL. III. o

was casting about him for something to say
which should not have either too severe or too
priggish a sound, Varna called to him querulously
from the other end of the room —

How long are you going to keep me waiting
for that Indicate? Take a candle and
search for it in the salon, I know it must be
somewhere about."

But there was no need for a candle. A grey
light was making its way through the chinks of
the shutters ; and in the drawing-room Claud
found an early housemaid, dusting and sweeping.
When he returned to the card-room
Ponetzky was gone, and Varna had once
more relapsed into floods of tears.

'' I don't know what I shall do, or what will
become of me ! I cannot bear to go away like
this, and leave Genevieve — and it may be ever
so long before we meet again ! They will let
her come and see me sometimes, will they not ?
She promised me once that she would never
allow anything to prevent her from doing that."
Claud said he was quite sure no objection
would be raised to such meetings. " But I
think," he added, '' I ought perhaps to take her
to Southlands now."

Of course you must. She could not remain
here after I had gone away. How terrible it

all is ! That ill-natured, spiteful little ogre of a
General ! Was it not just like him to make a
scene ? He might at least have waited until
the others had gone. I feel as if I should never
be able to hold up my head again — never ! Do
you think people will laugh at me ? "

'' No ; I don't think so. Why should they
laugh ? "

'* They will — I am certain they will ! And
I hate to be laughed at. Why do not they
have direct lines from Paris to all the principal
places in Europe ? One ought to be able to
make one's journeys without changing carriages.
Those railway people seem to take a fiendish
delight in adding to one's discomforts. Not
that it matters to me : I have done with railways.
I shall go and hide myself among those
horrible forests that belong to me in the government
of Perm, and end my days there, seeing
nothing but savages and wild beasts, like St.
Basil. Is it possible, I wonder, to engage a
could-lit at least as far as Berlin 1 I wish you
would send somebody up to the station to
inquire. Oh, and Genevieve will have to be
told about this ! You must tell her — I could
not ! It would break my heart."

After this characteristic fashion the Princess
rambled on, while she studied her railway

guide ; and Claud sat patiently beside her, feeling
that, since mute sympathy was all that he
could offer, he ought not to bestow that small
consolation upon her grudgingly. At length she
sent the Indicated spinning across the floor
with a despairing ejaculation.

Those trains are incomprehensible ! " she
cried. " Please go and see about sending somebody
to the station. I suppose the men are up
by this time. And when you have done that,
you might bring Genevieve to me. Only be
sure to let her hear everything first ; my nerves
are completely unstrung."

Genevieve and Miss Potts, who kept English
hours, and breakfasted together between nine
and ten o'clock, were not a little astonished to
find Claud waiting for them in the dining-room,
still in full dress, and presenting the unwashed,
unshaven, and disreputable appearance of a man
who has been up all night. He told his story
as briefly as might be, and, having conducted
his sister to the dreary room where poor
Varna, in her lace and jewels, was seated
among the scattered cards, the burnt-out candles,
the empty glasses, and the cigarette-ashes of the
night before, shut the door hastily, and left the
two women together.

On his way out he begged Miss Potts to see

that everything was got ready for an early start
the next morning, and then hurried to the Rue
amsterdam to change his clothes and make
the arrangements which his own sudden ceo



pasture rendered necessary. He sent an ambiguous
telegram to his father, merely stating
that something unfortunate had happened, and
that he was bringing Genevieve home ; after
which, he had to go to the newspaper office, the
theatre, and elsewhere ; so that it was evening
before he reached the Boulevard Malesherbes
again, and found the Princess's carnage, and an
omnibus loaded with trunks, waiting at the
door.

Varna was in the drawing-room, no longer
tearful, but pale and subdued, like a child who
has cried itself out — a poor little disconsolate
figure in her heavy travelling-furs. The tenderhearted
Miss Potts, touched by the sight of her
loneliness, would fain have accompanied her to
Russia, and when Claud entered, was still protesting,
even at the eleventh hour, that she
wanted but five minutes to put on her bonnet,
and would then be prepared to start for Pekin,
if necessary. But the Princess shook her head.

*' I must always be alone now," she said,
rather pathetically; 'rand I had better accustom
myself to it."

Then came a painful scene of leave-taking
The Princess kissed them all in turn, begging;
them not to forget her, to write to her sometimes,
and to forgive her if she had ever been
unkind to them. " Because," said she, " I have
never meant to be so."

Poor little woman ! I think that statement
of hers was truthful, as well as sincerely made.
She clung a long time to Genevieve, but was
far less demonstrative in her grief than Claud
had expected her to be, and went away at last
quite quietly, her face concealed under two
thick veils. From the window they saw her
step into her carriage, and presently she was
driven away, followed by the omnibus containing
her luggage and a small retinue of servants.

And so the old life had come to an end forever
; and Miss Potts, looking round the
deserted room where they had been so happy
together less than four and twenty hours before,
ejaculated solemnly, " It is well for the man
Hirsch that he is not here now ! I could not
answer for myself if I were to find him within
reach of my arm."

CHAPTER IX.

THE LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE.

To condemn our neighbours upon insufficient
grounds, to misunderstand their motives, to
start from false premisses in judging of their
actions, and generally to make a disastrous
failure of our attempts at insight into character
is so every-day an experience that those of us
who have lived forty years and more in the
world have grown accustomed to it, and find
no great difficulty in pardoning ourselves for
blunders of this kind. With our present imperfect
powers and opportunities, we can but
reason by appearance, analogy, induction, and
so forth, and when these methods fail, and
things prove to be not what they seem, the
fault evidently does not lie with us. If, for
Instance, a man takes some pains to present
himself to me in the light of a sneering, cold-blooded
egotist, is it my business to seek out

countervailing evidence, and to reveal that
under an assumed mask of selfishness there
lurks a modest man, whose pleasure it is to do
good by stealth ? One is sorry to have been
too hard upon a fellow-creature, even in thought ;
but hard thoughts, when all is said and done,
break no bones ; and doubtless, by way of compensation,
the generality of people think too
hardly of us.

But to the young and candid mind consciousness
of past injustice brings, as is most proper,
some humiliation and remorse ; and therefore it
was that Genevieve, during the journey from
Paris to Bologna, did not cease to reproach
herself for the hostility which she had maintained,
all her life long, against her father.
Seen in the light cast upon it by recent disclosures,
all that had rendered his conduct
odious to her in the past struck her now as not
only excusable but honourable ; what she had
taken for vices displayed themselves boldly as
virtues ; and in the fulness of her penitence she
constructed a suffering hero out of one who
perhaps merited such a character as little as
that of the unfeeling monster for whom he had
hitherto done duty in her estimation. Was not
that chill impassibility but another name for
patient resignation ? That perpetual irony,

those caustic remarks, what were they but evidences
of the noble pride which disdains to
show its wounds ? The truth was that Genevieve,
while fully participating in the feelings
with which her father must have seen his
wedded bliss shattered, had forgotten, among
other things, to take into account the healing
processes of time, and had no doubt at all but
that, as soon as Mr. Gervis should have learnt
that his wife had not been false to him in the
way that he had Imagined, the hardness of his
character would melt, like snow in spring, and
that he would look forward hopefully to that
not far distant day when Varna might once
more be free, and when she and he and the
children who loved them both might be reunited,
never to be estranged again.

The repentant Princess had spoken much to
her of his generosity, of his forbearance, of the
love she had had for him in days gone by.
Genevieve herself could not, on looking back,
call to mind any unkind actions of his ; and if
there had been a somewhat conspicuous absence
of kind words, she, at all events, was not entitled
to regard that as a grievance. The
memory of her obstinate prejudice astonished
her. She admired Claud, who had known how
to appreciate his father, and comparing her own

conduct unfavourably with his, felt that nothings
that she could do in the future could ever atone
for the aversion and neglect of so many years.
She had said as much to Varna, who had not
contradicted her. They had mingled their
tears in a common contrition ; and probably
neither of them remembered, while thus engaged,
who it was that had first set the girl
against her father, and who had filled her young
imagination with fables of spies and plots and
the dark designs of a mysterious foe.

As regards these bygone accusations, I am
inclined to think that, at the time when they
were made, the Princess believed in them firmly
as firmly as she afterwards believed that the
severance of the slack tie that bound her to
Mr. Gervis was a profound grief to her, and
that the dissimulation which she had found herself
obliged to practise upon him had been the
great burden of her life. It may almost be
said of poor Varna that a long course of
mendacity had so honeycombed her moral
nature that a true feeling of any kind was no
longer possible to her, and that what she took
for love, hate, grief, remorse, and the like were
but phantasmagoria of those sensations, retained
by memory, summoned up by fancy, and brought
into play as occasion might require. How far

her attachment to Genevieve was genuine, how-far
it was a mere reflex of self-love, is one of
those questions which observers of my humble
calibre do well to leave alone ; but it is certain
that her sadness at parting with the latter was
as near an approach to reality as anything
about her could be, and that she had been
honest in saying that she felt it as the chief of
the misfortunes that had overtaken her.

Genevieve, too, was sad ; but her sadness
was mitigated by more considerations than one.
Poor M. Hirsch, it was evident, could not last
long ; and it seemed to her that, when once his
troubles were at an end, those of many other
people would be ended also. Moreover, the
discovery of a father in the place of one who
had only been a father in name was surely a
subject for thankfulness. Nor would it have
been in mortal nature to feel that an affliction
which brought her nearer to Freddy Croft was
altogether devoid of redeeming features. Genevieve
more than forgave her father — she very
nearly went the length of being grateful to him
for the ordeal which he had imposed upon
her, and which was now entering upon its final
term. It was, after all, a proof of affection.
What more natural than that he, who, as he
supposed, had been the victim of an overhasty

marriage, should desire to shield his
daughter from the danger of a similar mischance
? But when he should have been put
in possession of the truth as regarded his own
case, would not his opinion of human constancy
necessarily change for the better ? And would
he not readily cease to oppose a match to which
he had never professed to see any inherent
drawbacks ? As Genevieve sat in the railway
carriage, she had many prophetic visions of a
softened Mr. Gervis embracing his repentant
child and extending the right hand of respect
and friendship to Freddy Croft ; of a happy
family circle, into which even Nina was to be
admitted upon terms of sisterhood, and of future
golden days, when the past, with all its misunderstandings
and heart-burnings, should be a
thing to be looked back upon without pain.

Being in this tender and sanguine mood, it
was something of a shock to her to be received
at Southlands with all the cold formality which
pertained to the old order of things. There is
no express train from Folkestone to Beach-borough,
and it was not till between nine and
ten o'clock that our travellers, tired and worried
with the changes and delays of their journey,
reached the latter place, and got into the
carriage which was waiting for them at the

Station. INIr. Gervis did not come out to the
hall-door to welcome them, on their arrival.
They found him in the dining-room, sipping his
Burgundy and perusing the Pall Mall Gazette,
just as of old, and he rose languidly and shook
hands with each of them, without displaying
the faintest curiosity as to the cause of their
sudden return. Had they dined ? he asked ;
and on hearing that they had not, he rang the
bell, and told the butler that dinner would be
wanted in a quarter of an hour. He then reseated
himself, observed that it was abominably
cold and that they must have had a rough
passage, and informed Genevieve and Miss
Potts that they would find fires in their bedrooms.
The ladies took this hint, and retired ;
and as soon as they were gone, Claud, who,
like most bearers of ill tidings, was impatient to
get his task discharged and done with, opened
fire.

"Governor," he began, ''I have got some
bad news for you."

'then, my good fellow," said Mr. Gervis,
pray keep it to yourself until you have eaten
something. I can wait ; and so, no doubt, can
your news."

'' I think I had better tell you at once," said
Claud.

I think not," answered his father decisively.
'' Your doing so would only bring half an hour
of great discomfort to me and to yourself;
because, when the ladles came down, we should
be obliged either to Ignore something unpleasant
that we all know of, or to talk about It
both of which courses would be objectionable.
Whereas, If you will go away now, and wash
your face (which, let me tell you, requires It),
we can get through our dinner In peace, and
confront calamity later with the antidote of
tobacco."

So saying, Mr. Gervis returned resolutely to
his Pall Mall, He had so completely assumed
his company manner when Genevieve returned,
and talked to her after so agreeably polite a
fashion about music and Paris and other subjects
of general Interest, that she was compelled
to postpone to some more propitious moment
the delivery of those filial speeches which she
had rehearsed by the way. Only, when she
took up her bedroom candlestick, she could not
help departing In one small particular from her
general practice. She gave Mr. Gervis s hand
a slight pressure, and said, 'good night —
father."

It was the very first time In her life that she
had so addressed him, and as he shut the door

"behind her, he turned to Claud with raised eyebrows
and a queer look on his face.

*' May I ask," he inquired, *' whether you
heard that endearing appellation ? "

*' Oh yes," answered Claud, laughing rather
uneasily ; '' I heard. You don't mind, I
suppose."

Mind ! My dear fellow, I am enchanted.
I gather, however, from that, and from the
portentous sighing of Potts, that I am about to
be informed of a bereavement. Come to the
billiard-room. We can smoke there ; and I
suppose we ought not to smoke in the library,
now that we have ladies with us. I have
furnaces kept up in every room in the house ;
and when I am alone, I spend the greater part
of the night in prowling about from one to
another and heaping on more coals. Allow me
to direct your attention to that door-curtain,"
continued Mr. Gervis, who, while he had been
speaking, had been slowly moving towards the
billiard-room. " Feel the weight of it ; observe
how it is shotted at the bottom. I have
defeated some of the most piercing draughts I
ever encountered in that way, and I think I
may say that most of my doors are now airtight.
As for the windows, the victory rests
for the present with them. I have tried strips

of felt, India-rubber tubing and sand-bags, all
without any appreciable result, and if they do
not bring about my death first, I mean to have
those absurd sashes torn out and replaced by
windows on the French system, which look
better and can be made to shut, if necessary."

Nothing could exceed Mr. Gervis s cheerfulness
and amiability. To all appearance, he
had not the faintest apprehension of the impending
thunder-clap. He handed his son a
cigar, remarking that one of the few advantages
of living in England was that one could get
real Savannahs there by paying three or four
times the proper price for them ; he pointed
out a neat little cabinet on castors, containing
refreshment In the shape of soda-water and
various liqueurs ; finally he dragged a chair
close up to the blazing fire, and sank Into it,
crossing his legs, screwing up his eyes, and
surveying Claud with his head very much on
one side and the air of a man who expects to
be entertained by some novel or amusing
exhibition.

But perceiving that Claud shifted from one
foot to the other, and fixed a frowning stare
upon vacancy, not knowing how or where to
begin, he took pity upon him, and removing his
cigar from his lips — 'allow me," said he

pleasantly, ''to offer you a helping hand. I
guessed what must be the intelligence you were
bringing as soon as your telegram reached me.
The Princess has, of course, found her elective
affinity at last, and vanished from the scene.
I have always anticipated "

Stop, governor," interrupted Claud ; " it
isn't that at all. Don't say anything more ;
you might be sorry for it afterwards."

Indeed ? Then I confess that I am at a
loss, and must leave you to tell your tale in
your own way. But pray do not worry yourself
over it. I believe I may safely promise
you that nothing that you can have to say will
cause me much distress. I am an ironclad — or
rather I am an earthwork, into which any number
of projectiles may be fired without making
a breach."

Thus encouraged, Claud related, in an
abridged form, all that he had heard from
Hirsch-Ponetzky. He entered upon his task
with some nervousness and some curiosity. He
had not taken his father's boast quite literally,
and indeed would have been sorry to believe
him so callous ; but in what way this news
would affect him was more than Claud's knowledge
of the man enabled him to surmise ; and
the glances which he stole, from time to time,

VOL. HI. p

at that white, impassive face told him nothing
at all. But, as the recital proceeded, it became
evident that Mr. Gervis was more moved than
he wished to appear. He allowed his cigar to
go out ; something like a sigh escaped him
several times ; once he raised his hand involuntarily,
as if to shade his eyes, but, recollecting
himself, let it drop again immediately.

So that was Ponetzky ! " he said at length.
'' And he would have told me all about it for
twenty thousand pounds, poor devil ! It is
curious that I should not have suspected this —
really very curious ! I might have guessed: — •
once, long ago. Perhaps I ought to have
guessed. It is a fortunate thing that I did not,
you say. Well, that depends entirely upon
what one's definition of fortunate things maybe.
My own impression is that. If I had found
out the truth at once, I should have been
spared a good deal of— annoyance. And if
that man had had the common decency to get
himself shot by one of those yellow-faced South
Americans, a good deal of annoyance would
have been spared to others. But the longer I
live, the more distinctly I see that everything
invariably falls out for the worst in this worst
of all possible worlds. I think, with your permission,
I will bid you good-night now ; we

will talk over this again tomorrow morning.
You will want to be eolnof over to the Moated
House, I suppose ? "

Claud said he had thought of doing so.

*' Ah — well, don't go until you have seen me.
Good night."

And so Mr. Gervis left the room with his
slow, dragging step, looking, Claud thought,
very old and bowed.

But at breakfast, the next morning, he had
apparently recovered himself, and was unusually
talkative. Varna s name was not mentioned ;
but from several passing allusions, Claud, who
came down late, perceived that the new order
of things was no longer to be regarded as a
secret, and that his father and sister had been
already discussing it.

Mr. Gervis, indeed, admitted as much on the
terrace, whither Claud and he repaired half an
hour later. " Genevieve has been saying all
sorts of kind and civil things to me," he remarked.
'' She thinks, it appears, that I have
been a much-injured man, and that she, among
others, has failed to do justice to my many sterling
qualities ; and so she is anxious to make a
handsome reparation. She spoke very prettily.
So did I. It is a pity you could not hear us."
Mr. Gervis paused, laughing a lite, at the

end of the terrace-walk, and looked down the
valley towards Beachborough and the sea,
which were half hidden in the haze of a mild
winter's morning. " There is something rather
pleasant about these reconciliations," he resumed
presently, " even though one knows that
they are built upon sand."

How built upon sand ?" Claud asked.

*' I mean that this is a reaction ; nothing
more. I have always had a — liking for your
sister, and I dare say I have understood her
pretty well, seeing that hers is not an incomprehensible
character ; but it is utterly impossible
that she should either like or understand
me. The last she will certainly not be able todo
for a matter of ten years to come at least ;
by which time I shall have reverted to my
original dust. At present she is pleased to
take me for something that I am not, and probably
never was. She tells me that that unfortunate
Ponetzky is at the point of death ;
and I believe she is really looking forward to
the day when I shall lead the Princess to the
altar a second time, and bring her home to
Southlands for a sort of senile honeymoon."

You won't do that, I suppose ? " said Claud
interrogatively, poking holes in the flower-beds
with the point of his stick.

'' Do you think it likely that I shall ? Do
you think the Princess would enjoy living here,
or that she and I could play Darby and Joan
with success ? I admit that, if she had been
your mother, it might have been our duty to
sacrifice ourselves for the sake of our children ;
but happily no such necessity is laid upon us.
We were virtually separated within a year of
our marriage ; we have been separated ever
since ; now we are legally separated ; and I
think we may exchange mutual congratulations
upon our release."

Mr. Gervis had resumed his walk alone the
terrace while he was speaking. He now took
his son's arm, and led him farther away from
the house.

You are not in a hurry ? " he asked ; and,
without waiting for an answer — " Then let us
take a turn through the grounds. Some time
or other we must have a talk about family
matters, and as the subject is not a very pleasant
one, we may as well get rid of it at once,
and not recur to it. I will not deny that the
news which you brought me last night startled
me, and that for some hours afterwards I almost
felt, like your sister, that there had been an
unhappy mistake, for which nobody was very
much to blame, and that, some day soon, we

might shake hands all round, let bygones be
bygones, and live happily ever afterwards, like
the people in the story-books. I need not say,
however, that common sense re-asserted itself
before the morning. You must know that, a
good many years back, I committed the folly of
falling absurdly in love with the Princess. Sofar,
no doubt, I may count upon your sympathy. ■
It is true that I had not the excuse of youth ;
but then it is proverbial that there is no fool
like an old fool ; and the fact is that I was as
much in love with my wife as — shall we say as
you were with yours ? "

Don't use the past tense in my case, please,"
said Claud, laughing.

I apologize — as much in love as you are.
If, in the course of a year, I discovered that my
angel had certain earthly proclivities, I turned
my eyes away from them, like a sensible man ;
but when she distinctly gave me to understand
that the man with whom I had seen her talking
at Wiesbaden was her lover, what could I do ?
It seems to me that, considering what the circumstances
were, I behaved remarkably welland
made far less fuss than most people would
have done. Those who choose to make false
statements must bear the consequences of them.
The temptation to deceive me was strong, I

allow ; but you will hardly urge that it was my
happiness that she had in view when she
adopted that particular form of deception. I
cannot, therefore, feel that she has left me much
in her debt. To you I can speak more openly
than I could to Genevieve ; and I do not mind
telling you that, even if this irrepressible Pole
had never reappeared, I should certainly have
had reasons before long for going my way, and
letting the Princess go hers. She has accused
me sometimes of setting spies to watch her. I
never did anything of the sort ; but you may
imagine that there have always been plenty of
good-natured people anxious to keep me informed
as to all her — friendships, and the details
of them. In short, if I had wished to get
my marriage dissolved, I have no doubt that I
could have managed it easily enough."

Poor Varna ! " sighed Claud. " It is a
pity."

What is a pity ? The pity is not that our
marriage turned out badly — which it was absolutely
certain to do — but that it ever took place
at all. Matrimony, my dear Claud, is a deplorable
institution. As a cause of human misery,
I should rank it second only to drink ; and I
am by no means clear that it ought not to take
the first place. In the present state of society

it is, I grant you, a necessity ; but I can well
believe that in a more enlightened age it will
be looked back upon with horror, as a senseless
and degrading slavery, invented by semi-civilized
man as a safeguard against immorality,
but not even justifying that inadequate raison
d'etre, and itself profoundly immoral in the
wider and truer acceptation of the term. For
what," continued Mr. Gervis, stopping to face
his astonished companion, '' can be more absurd
than the assumption that the woman with whom
you have happened to fall in love is the one
best suited to order your dinner, to sit opposite
to you, all the days of your life, while you eat
it, to nurse you when you are ill, to bring up
your children in the way they should go, and all
the rest of it ? A year, or, at the most, two
years of married life are sufficient to cure you
effectually of a fancy which might otherwise
have lasted for an indefinite time ; and then
what remains to you ? In all probability a
woman whom you would have died rather than
married, if you had known what she was."

Well, but," observed Claud, " that does not
seem to prove much against matrimony as an
institution ; it only goes to show that one should
be careful whom one marries."

Exactly so. I speak of the institution as it

works to-day — not as It would do, if raised to
an ideal state of perfection. Under the ideal
system, one would, of course, marry the cook,
provided that she were honest, sober, industrious,
and cleanly, it being clearly understood
that neglect of her duties would render her liable
to divorce. But now consider what matrimony
In Its present shape means. It Is simply a leap
in the dark ; and naturally It Is apt to result in
broken shins. The absurd custom Is that, as
soon as a youth has become enamoured of a
maiden, and has received her assurance that his
affection is returned, the pair of them hurry off
to get married, and to destroy the sweetest and
most Innocent dream of which our fallen nature
is capable. When the man wakes up — which
he does with marvellous celerity — he finds himself
tied by the leg for life. And to what ?
Perhaps to a shrew, perhaps to a flirt, perhaps
to a confirmed sucker or an absolute idiot. One
in a hundred, we will say, discovers that he has
espoused the Ideal cook — the excellent creature,
who will discharge her household duties with
cheerfulness, devote herself to her children, and
treat him, in a general way, as If he were the
eldest of them. That man Is happy and
blessed. But the remaining ninety and nine
are disappointed and disgusted. They have

made an irreparable mistake, and It is a poor
consolation for them to know that they have
only themselves to thank for It."

Claud observed that he was acquainted with
a good many married men to whom this
description hardly applied.

"I agree," returned Mr. Gervis, "that the
majority are unable to care very greatly about
anything for long ; but their lives are not the
less spoilt because they have attained to a
certain dull resignation. Let us, however, take
the not very rare case of a man of keen sensibilities,
strong affections, large capacities for
happiness. Disappointment is apt to turn such
a one sour."

Perhaps it might not turn him quite so sour
as he supposed," said Claud, who thought he
began to see the drift of these general remarks.
'* But don't sou think that, if he allowed it to do
so, he would be making his mistake worse than
there was any necessity for ? "

You have anticipated the very observation
I was about to make," answered Mr. Gervis
placidly. " A wise man, when he comes to
review the situation, cannot fail to see that he
has no right to let such a poor thing as a
woman be a permanent affliction to him.
Women are only adjuncts of existence ; the

world belongs to the men ; all of whom have,
or ought to have, interests wholly independent
of women in it. You, for example, would have
your art, in which you have now a good prospect
of excelling. A woman is, after all, no
worse a torment than a full-shown, able-bodied
flea. In some respects, indeed, she is less
troublesome ; for you can get rid of a woman
at any time by the simple expedient of walking
into the next room, and locking the door behind
you ; whereas the only sure way of escaping
from a flea is to tear off all your clothes — which
is not always practicable upon the spur of the
moment."

I think you're rather too hard upon women,
governor," Claud's love of fair play prompted
him to remonstrate. "■ Perhaps, if we heard
their side of the question, they would have a
word or two to say against us."

A word or two ? A million or two of words,
more likely. Doubtless all humanity is reprobate
; but you recollect the result of Solomon's
search — ' One man among a thousand have I
found ; but a woman among all those have I
not found.' My own small investigations point
to a similar conclusion. I confess that I have
a poor opinion of women. If they do not
deceive you in one way, they will in another ;

and even when they can no longer deceive you
at all, they will not give up trying. Their
whole nature Is saturated with deceit ; their
very virtues are made up of It. The qualities
which render a woman charming are nothing
else than adroit humbug, pretence, and dissimulation.
When you hear a man extolling his
wife, you may safely conclude that he Is an ass,
and that she knows it. I tell you a woman's
life Is one long course of duplicity from her
cradle to her grave. Splendid mental she maybe,
upon occasion ; but inendax — always."

The writer feels quite shocked and alarmed
as he sets down these disgraceful calumnies,
and cannot help venturing to remind any ladles
Into whose hands this work may fall that the
sentiments just recorded are Mr. Gervis's, not
his own. The writer yields to no man in
veneration for their sex. So great is it. In fact,
that he has never yet deemed himself worthy of
being allied to any member of It.

Claud was simply amazed by all this unwonted
loquacity. He was made to walk along
all the winding paths of the garden, up to the
top of the hill, down through the wood, and
back again to the house, Mr. Gervis holding
him by the arm, expounding and moralizing ;
and It was not until past one o'clock that our

innocent hero began to suspect that his father
had, for some reason or other, been talking
against time. What helped to confirm this
suspicion was the half-smothered sigh of relief
with which Mr. Gervis consulted his watch, and
discovered that the luncheon-hour was at hand.

You will have to defer your visit to the
Moated House till the afternoon," he observed,
*' By-the-by, shall you be passing through the
town on your way ? "

I can do so, of course, if you have any
commission that you want me to execute there,"
answered Claud ; *' but it is two miles round."

'' So much as that ? But you will avoid the
muddy lanes by taking that line, and I suppose
you are not in any very desperate hurry, are
you ? Would it inconvenience you extremely
to take a note to Mrs. Knowles for me ?"

*' Not at all," answered Claud, wonderingly.

Then I will give it you after luncheon.
And would you be so kind as to deliver it
in person ? I think she may very likely wish
to send me a verbal reply."

Claud promised to carry out these instructions
; and in due process of time he was shown
into Mrs. Knowles's presence, and handed her
the square envelope which bore her name,
written in Mr. Gervis's distinct little hand.

Now, this note is one among the many documents
bearing upon the history of the Gervis
family which have found their way Into my
possession. It Hes before me on my writing-table
at this moment, and I here append a true
copy of it.

My dear Mrs. Knowles,

*' Will you do a charitable act, and say
a few words to prepare this boy for the catastrophe
which appears to be imminent ? I
find that my touch Is not delicate enough for
the task. I am anxious to prevent his finding
his wife and young Croft together ; for, between
ourselves, he has a devil of a temper concealed
somewhere about his inner economy ; and one
would fain avoid rows. By dint of the most
exhausting efforts, physical and mental, I have
kept him at home all the morning, and I have
made an excuse to write to Mr. Flemyng,
mentioning casually that he was here ; so that
there ought to be a fair chance of his finding
Mrs. G. alone when he presents himself. He
will tell you the reason of his return to this
country. He has brought Genevieve with him.
Upon the whole, it looks to me as if we were
upon the eve of a culbnte generale,

'' Yours,
*' V. G."

For a combination of shrewd common sense,
honesty, and kindness, I know of few people
to compare with my grandmother; but with
delicacy of touch I am unable to credit her ;
and that that skilled diplomatist Gervis should
have based his appeal upon her supposed
possession of this gift certainly sounds a little
oddly. As, however, his utterances were seldom
to be construed in a strictly literal sense, it maybe
that it was upon other grounds than those
put forward that he had made choice of Mrs.
Knowles as his co-operator ; and, as a matter
of fact, she acquitted herself of her task better
than most people would have done. She read
the letter and put it into her pocket, without
remark ; and when she had heard the whole
story of the Princess and Ponetzky, and had
delivered a few trenchant comments thereupon,
she bent her head, so as to bring those sharp
old eyes of hers to bear upon Claud over her
spectacles, and attacked him point-blank with —

Does it strike you that your father's system
of going one way and letting his wife go another
is a sensible one ? "

She wasn't his wife, as it turns out," Claud
observed. " Of course, if she had been "

'* If she had been, it would have been his
duty to stick by her through thick and thin,

wouldn't It ? He had married a flighty little
woman, and he must have known that, If she
was left to her own devices, she would get
into mischief. A man takes his wife for better,
for worse, and It Is his business to look after
her. At least, that is my conviction ; I don't
know whether It is yours."

Claud said he believed it was.

Then why don't you act up to It ? " asked
Mrs. Knowles, turning upon him with sudden
sternness.

I understand what you mean," said Claud,
reddening a little ; " but I assure you that mine
is not a parallel case."

'' Begging your pardon, I assure you that it
is. Some women can't do without a man
perpetually dangling at their heels, paying
them small attentions, and so on. It is sheer
meat and drink to them, and you can't deprive
them of it. The Princess Ouranoff seems to
be one of those women ; and your wife is
another. What possessed you to send her
tapering all over England by herself, and then
to leave her in a place like this, where she could
have nothing on earth to occupy her mind ? "

"If you have anything disagreeable to tell
me, will you please say it at once ? " broke in
Claud rather grimly.

*' Well," answered Mrs. Knowles, after a
short pause, '' it is just this. Your wife has
been going on in a way that doesn't quite suit
the notions of the good folks hereabouts,
and your father thinks you had better be
told of it. That was what he wrote to me
about, if you want to know. He appears to
have been afraid that, if the news were not
broken to you gently, you might lose your
temper and create a disturbance ; but I give
you credit for a little more sense, and therefore
I tell you the truth plainly. There is no
occasion to make a fuss over it. Be off to Paris
as quickly as you can, and take your wife with
you. And bear in mind that, if she has behaved
a little imprudently, it is your fault as
much as hers."

'' Perhaps you are right," said Claud, sighing;
perhaps I ought to have foreseen this. If
you knew all the circumstances, you might not
think me so much to blame ; but let that pass.
I am much obliged to you for telling me ; and
I promise you there shall be no disturbance,"
he added, with a faint smile. And then he
took up his hat to go.

*stop a moment," said Mrs. Knowles.
We may as well have the whole murder out
while we are about it. You know, idle young

VOL. ni. Q

men are not quite as common as blackberries
in these parts ; and I suppose that when
Mrs. Gervis fel it to be absolutely necessary
that she should have somebody to walk up and
down the Esplanade with her, she naturally
gave the first choice to an old friend."

Surely you cannot be speaking of Freddy
Croft ! " cried Claud, his face chano^inof.

*' Why not ? Don't you think he is silly
enough for that ? "

Claud made no reply ; but he tightened his
grasp of the walking-stick which he carried
significantly, and there came a look about the
corners of his mouth which Mrs. Knowles,
who was watching him, doubtless interpreted
correctly.

"That's right!" said she. *' Go off and
thrash him — you are twice his size, and you
will be able to manage it easily enough. And
when you have succeeded in taking away your
wife's character, breaking your sister's heart,
and starting a scandal which will be talked
about for the next ten years, come back here
and report progress. I shall be curious to hear
what step you will propose to take next."

What would you have me do ? " exclaimed
Claud. " You appear to think very little of
this : but to me it seems one of the most

abominable pieces of heartless treachery I ever
heard of. It is of Genevieve, not of myself, that
I am thinking. I believe this will almost kill her."

*' I don't suppose it will do that ; but no
doubt she will have a hard time of it, if you
are determined to play the fool," returned Mrs.
Knowles, drily. 'well, its an ill wind that
blows nobody good, and Beachborough will be
eternally grateful to you, that's one thing. How
do you think of proceeding to business ? Will
you go over to Croft, and beard the monster
in his den, or will you lurk about in the side
streets till he shows himself upon the Esplanade,
and then sally forth and administer the drubbing
publicly ? "

Claud turned white ; and Mrs. Knowles,
looking at him, thought to herself, " Oho ! so
the temper is there, sure enough."

But he kept it down.

I don't think it is very friendly to turn
mQ into ridicule when I am in trouble, Mrs.
Knowles," he said quietly.

The old lady got up and laid her hand upon
his shoulder. '' I don't want to turn you into
ridicule, my dear boy ; I only want to prevent
you from making yourself ridiculous, if I can.
I know how you feel ; and I acknowledge that,
if I were in your place, I should long to lay

my Stick across that silly little fellows back.
There ! — will that satisfy you ? But you
mustn't do it. You must think of others ; for
that is a gentleman's first duty, I take it.
There is no more harm done as yet than can
be set right by your removing your wife across
the Channel. If you will only keep cool, and
act like a sensible man, I firmly believe that all
will come right ; but you must try to think
only of your sister for the present. I have no
wish to say unpleasant things about anybody ;
but I suspect that Freddy is not the chief person
to blame for this foolish flirtation. When
once you are safely over in Paris, you can have
it out with your wife ; and if you choose to lock
her up in a dark room for a day or two, and
keep her upon bread and water, I'm sure I
shan't blame you. Still, if you will take an old
woman's advice, you will not be too hard upon
her. When it is a case of two people spending
their lives together, a little unearned forgiveness
is a better thing than a well-deserved beating.
Now go ; and good luck go with you ! "

It is to be regretted that these words of sage
counsel should not have been the last that
Claud heard before entering the Moated House.
Unfortunately, Fate ordained that, just as he
was turning out of South Crescent, he should

meet an Individual whose meddlesome tendencies
have brought him into notice before this in
the course of the present history. Tom Bur-will
was, I dare say, neither more vindictive nor
more given to self-deception than his betters,
and very likely he persuaded himself that he
was only discharging a painful duty when, after
respectfully greeting his old patron, he proceeded
to put him in possession of certain facts
which, as he said, were the talk of the whole
place. So far, there would have been no great
mischief done ; for he had little to tell that
Claud did not already know ; but Tom, alas !
was a man of scant refinement, and the terms
of which he thought fit to make use in speaking
of Mrs. Gervis and her goings on were more
plain than elegant. And then he chose to wind
up with a most unlucky statement.

They wus a-kissin' and a-huggin' under
that their cliff no later n yesterday morning'.
Yes, that they wus ! — I seen 'em," he declared.

Now, it really had not occurred to Claud that
matters could have gone so far as this ; and it
must be acknowledged that, when he heard his
disgrace thus blazoned forth by the mouth of a
common fisherman, he forgot Mrs. Knowles's
warning, forgot Genevieve, forgot everything,
except his own cruel case, and started off up
the hill with deadly rage in his heart.

CHAPTER X.

IRA BREVIS FUROR.

The Italian people, to whom Claud was indebted
for many gifts besides his handsome
face, have a wholesome dread and detestation
of anger. They recognize it as not so much a
sin or a folly as a malady to be shunned. " Mi
face far captive langue," they will say, almost
pathetically, of one who has injured them ; as.
though the rousing of wrath were in itself an
injury more than sufficient. For to them anger
means a great deal more than it does to us. It
is indeed a brevis furor, a whirlwind of passion,
paralyzing the will, obscuring the brain, and
leaving him who has been attacked by it exhausted
and ill, and often oblivious of what he
has done while the fit was upon him. It is a
steadfast belief of theirs that a man in a rage
is not accountable for his actions. Hence that
leniency towards all quarrels in which the knife

is whipped out, and that determination to find
an extenuating plea for every unpremeditated
crime of violence, which so scandalize the
sober British traveller. Claud, as he strode
along miry lanes and across ploughed fields,
making straight for the Moated House, and
swinging his stick as he went, was assuredly
not master of himself; and it was well for the
peace of mind of Mr. Gervis, who knew something
of Italian blood and its properties, that
he could not see his son at that moment.

The young fellow's head was swimming and
all his pulses throbbed. There was a mist
before his eyes, so that he blundered and stumbled
continually, and found his way across
country more by force of instinct than by purpose.
As he neared his destination, sundry
familiar landmarks, seen through that red mist,
smote him with a sharp pain that gave the spur
to his fury. There was the white park gate,
with its troublesome, old-fashioned latch — the
gate through which he used to ride twice a day
in that far-away summer time ; yonder, beyond
the naked branches of the trees, was the stagnant
lake, with the summer-house in which
Nina and he had spent a certain memorable
afternoon ; and now the garden was in sight,
and the spreading cedar-tree where her hammock

used to hang, and the lawn where she
had defeated him so easily at lawn-tennis.
Seeing all these things, he ground his teeth,
cursing the day when he had met her first, and
pressed on.

Whither was he hastening so fast ? and what
did he intend to do ? He has since confessed
to me that he had not the faintest idea. " The
truth is," he says, " that I was in a hell of a
rage — if you will allow me to use a profane,
but expressive, phrase — and knew no more
whom I was about to attack than an infuriated
wasp does. I wanted to get at somebody —
that's all I know."

Such being his state of mind, it was fortunate
that he could not make his way into the house
without first ringing the bell, and that a brief
space of time was thus afforded to him in which
to recover possession of his senses. He had
somehow fancied that he was descending upon
that house like an avenging spirit, and that its
guilty inmates would shrink away affrighted
on his approach ; but the butler who opened
the door for him manifested neither alarm nor
surprise, having doubtless been already informed
of the wanderer's return. He said Mrs. Gervis
was in the 'liberty," he believed, and would
Claud please to walk this way ?

Thus our hero was ushered into the presence
of his wife in the ordinary and conventional
manner, and so far from displaying the noble
anger of the lion, was conscious of entering the
room with something of the appearance of
having his tail between his legs. For Nina, ashe
perceived at once, was not alone ; and he
had enough of discretion left to shrink from
making a scene before a third person. She
was sitting beside the fire, and, oddly enough,
she had on a costume of that same combination
of brown and red as she had worn on the
autumn afternoon which had just been brought
back to Claud's remembrance. It was not the
identical dress, to be sure — for when did Nina
ever keep a dress eighteen months in her possession
? — but Claud noted the coincidence,
and forthwith a couplet started up into his
memory :

*' I saw with half-unconscious eye
She wore the colours I approved."

It was in all probability nothing more than a
coincidence ; but it served to sober him a little.
Mr. Flemyng, silver-haired and imposing, in
his black velvet coat, stepped forward from the
hearth rug, and held out a large white hand.
Then Nina also rose, and advanced ; and what

was Claud to do ? He says he doesn't know
whether he kissed her or not, but supposes he
must have done so.

'' We heard from Mr. Gervis that we might
look for the pleasure of seeing you this afternoons*
began Mr. Flemyng in his pompous
voice; and Claud immediately wondered whether
Nina had purposely arranged that her father
should be in the room when he arrived.
Whether it were due to accident or design, the
presence of this wordy old gentleman prevented
what might have been a very awkward encounter
; and during the endless oration upon
which he embarked Claud felt all the passion
that had been in him ebbing slowly away. He
did not know what the man was talking about ;
he was conscious only of the well-known sound
of those rolling syllables and of the booming
chest-notes that were being hurled at his ears,
and of a growing sense of the absurdity of the
situation. The latter feeling increased to positive
amusement when at length he came to an
understanding of Mr. Flemyng's remarks, and
realized that he was being voluminously pardoned
for having run away with Nina more
than a year before. He could not help glancing
at his wife to see whether her father's unconscious
irony was apparent to her ; but she was

holding up a fire-screen to shield her face from
the blaze, and was scanning the flights of Cupids
depicted upon it with that patient, far-away
look which all who saw much of Mr. Flemyng
soon learnt to assume ; and it was impossible
to tell from her manner how much or how little
she heard of what was being said.

Mr. Flemyng talked on and on. Having
exhausted the subject of runaway marriages, he
now proceeded, out of compliment to his son-in-law,
to discuss that of French plays, and
criticized the modern school of dramatic authors
somewhat disparagingly. France, he was
pleased to say, was the only country in which
the theatre could be considered as still existent ;
but even France had sadly degenerated. She
could boast, it was true, of a certain number of
clever, but slight, writers, who enjoyed a not
undeserved reputation. Their works, however,
were scarcely designed to be other than ephemeral.
Where was the Moliere, where was the
Corneille of the nineteenth century ? (Molar
and Corneal, he called them.) Claud observed
that the nineteenth century had produced some
painters, though there was neither a Raphael
nor a Michael Angelo among them ; and he
added that a modern Corneille would probably
find some difficulty in inducing a manager to

accept his long-winded sublimities, or a public
to listen to them. No sooner had he uttered
this rash criticism than he perceived the trap
into which he had fallen ; for Mr. Flemyng
promptly let loose upon him such a flood of
quotations, assisted by appropriate elocution
and action, that there was no room for doubt
but that he had been leading up to this point,
and that he was fresh from a perusal of the
works — or, more probably, of an essay upon
the works — of that eminent man.

Mr. Flemyng, spouting lines from Made and
Le Cid in the most grotesque of Anglo-French,
would have been a comical spectacle enough,
if Claud had been in the humour to enjoy it ;
but it was not for such a purpose that he was at
the Moated House, and he was besfinninof to
debate seriously with himself whether he had
not better say point-blank that he would be
glad of half an hour s private conversation with
Nina, when his father-in-law suddenly recollected
that he had an appointment to keep in
Beachborough, and, with many apologies for
leaving so abruptly, took himself off.

Claud was now alone with his wife ; but the
denunciatory mood had passed away from him.
He approached her slowly, and stood, with his
elbow resting upon the mantelpiece, looking

down upon her, while she continued to study
her fire-screen. And so, for a few minutes,
they remained, neither of them moving or
speaking, each waiting for the other. At last
Nina looked up.

Well ? " she said.

Well," returned Claud. For indeed the
horrible unpleasantness of the scene which he
foresaw was beginning to make itself apparent
to him, and he was sensible of a cowardly
longing to stave it off

'' What has brought you back to England so
suddenly ? " she asked. " Mr. Gervis said in
his note that you would explain."

'' There has been a trouble about Varlnka,"
Claud answered.

Oh, a trouble about the Princess," said
Nina, with evident relief in her voice. No
doubt she had anticipated that the trouble, if
there were any, would be found to relate to
some one nearer home.

Yes ; everybody will have to know about it
before long, so there is no use In making a
secret of it. Her husband. Count Ponetzky,
who was supposed to have been killed a year
or more before she married my father, has
turned up."

You don't mean to say so ! Poor thing !

how dreadful for her ! But at the same time,
how interesting ! Do sit down, and tell me
all about it."

Claud did not sit down — he had a feeling
that it would be easier to say what must presently
be said standing — but he related, as
succinctly as he could, the circumstances which
had made him decide upon bringing his sister
home. " I should have written to you to say
that I was coming," he added ; ** but there was
not time ; and I did not think it worth while to
telegraph."

Of course not, why should you ? So that
man Hirsch was really Count Ponetzky. What
a sinister-looking creature he was ! I wish I
had noticed him more ; but he was so rude and
disagreeable that one didn't care about talking
to him much. I always thought there was a
mystery connected with him, and I knew he
got money out of the Princess ; but I never
suspected the truth. I fancied he knew something
about her ; that he had been — that she
had seen rather more of him in her earlier
years, you know — something of that kind. I
used often to feel very sorry for her."

*' That I can quite believe," observed Claud
meaningly.

She raised her eyes to his with a look of

calm interrogation ; and, in spite of himself, he
admired her courage. She must have known
that she was found out ; but she never quailed
under his o^aze for an instant, and affected to
notice nothing strange in his manner. Claud
could not help remembering what his father
had said of her sex in the morning — " Even
when they can deceive you no longer, they will
not give up trying."

What about the new play ? " she asked
presently. *' I hear the most glowing accounts
of it, and a few days ago I read a long piece
about it in the Paris correspondence of the
Times. I kept the paper to send to you."

Thank you," said Claud ; '* I have seen the
paper ; and you will soon be able to see the
play, if you wish it ; for we shall be in Paris
within forty-eight hours''

-We?"

Yes ; you and I. We shall start the day
after tomorrow."

My dear Claud, what are you thinking of ?
I could not possibly be ready in time."

*' I am sorry for it ; because, in that case, you
will have to do the impossible."

*' I don't understand you," she said coldly.
'' I can be ready in a week, if that v/ill do ; or,
if you cannot v/ait so long, I can follow you.

As for my starting the day after tomorrow, it
is out of the question. I have to go up to
London to fit on a dress ; and besides, I have
several engagements here."

*' Then you must break your engagements
and have your dress sent after you," returned
Claud curtly. " I am going back to Paris the
day after tomorrow, and I do not choose to
leave you here any longer alone. I don't
know whether you wish me to speak more
plainly."

Really I think you had better," she said.
*' You are taking up a very extraordinary tone."

*' I suppose you understand what I mean,"
rejoined Claud, slowly and unwillingly. " Why
do you force me into mentioning such things ?
Since I have been back, I have heard from
more than one quarter that you have been
making yourself talked about. And I am
determined to put a stop to it."

That was all that came of the famous invective
which he had been going to hurl at the
head of the culprit. Mr. Flemyng's volubility
had for once served a good purpose ; and
Claud, being no longer angry, was more alive
to the humiliation of his position than to his
wrongs.

Nina was not a whit disconcerted. " I must

say they have lost no time," she observed.
Did Miss Pennefather stop you on the Esplanade,
and feel it her duty to etcetera, etcetera ?
Or have you received a shoal of anonymous
letters ? "

Neither the one nor the other," answered
Claud, shortly. " It was Mrs. Knowles who
told me, what appears to be no secret, about
you — and another person."

Oh, we needn't leave the other person's
name blank, as though he were the devil.
Poor little Freddy ! "

Upon my word ! " exclaimed Claud, " I
think you might keep your pity for those who
deserve it more."

'* For you, do you mean ? I'm sure I don't
grudge it you. I should pity anybody who
allowed himself to be disturbed by the gossip of
spiteful old women, like Mrs. Knowles."

This was more than Claud could listen to
with patience. '' I don't listen to spiteful
gossip," he cried. " Mrs. Knowles would have
said nothing, if my father had not begged her
to do so ; and I suppose that his only reason
for not telling me himself was that he wanted
to avoid the appearance of triumphing over me
which he would have had every right to do.
Spiteful gossip ! why, it is the talk of the whole

VOL. HI. R

place ! As I was walking up here, I was
actually stopped by a common fisherman "

Mr. Thomas Burvill, I presume."

It was Tom Burvill, if that makes any
difference."

A notorious drunkard and poacher, who, as
you know very well, has a grudge against us —
for no other reason, that I am aware of, than
that he destroyed some property of ours and
that we didn't prosecute him for it. Well ;
what news had this trustworthy creature to give
you ? "

Nothing but what he could vouch for upon
the evidence of his own senses. He told me
he had seen you and Croft — kissing each
other."

It was Claud, not Nina, who blushed at the
mention of this alleged Indiscretion.

She laughed scornfully. *' And you believe
that ? "

*' I should be very glad to think that it was a
lie," answered Claud, looking down.

"It is a lie. A wilful lie, I should think ;
but if you want to make excuses for your friend,
you can put it that he mistook another couple
for us. You don't believe me, I see."

Claud hesitated. Ought he, after all, to take
a drunken fisherman's word against his wife's ?

And yet in his heart he suspected that the
drunken fisherman was the more to be depended
upon of the two.

*' Why should I believe you ? " he asked at
length coldly. " You have deceived me."

'* Have I ? That remains to be proved.
Perhaps, if you had asked me a direct question,
I should have given you an honest answer.
Claud, I think you used to know me well
enough to know at least one thing — whatever
I may be, I am not a liar."

Do you mean me to understand that you
have done nothing to be ashamed of ? "

Ah, that is asking too much. I might say
Yes, or I might say No — I really can't quite
tell. You should put questions that one can
reply to. If you had asked me whether I had
ever kissed Freddy Croft, for instance, I could
have answered No. If you had asked me
whether he had ever kissed me, I should have
said Yes. He did kiss me once — and only
once."

Oh, you admit once."

I do. And as this occurred last autumn,
and as I have seen him almost every day of his
life since, and he has never attempted to repeat
the offence, I think you will admit that I cannot
have given him much encouragement. Perhaps

you think I ought to have written and told you
about it by the first post."

'' I think, at all events, that your seeing him,
as you say, every day of his life since is rather
strange."

Then there was an interval of silence, during
which Claud several times opened his lips to
speak, and as often checked himself. He began,
at last, constrainedly and haltingly —

I hardly know what to say to you — to speak
plainly, I hardly know how far to believe you.
I think I should be a fool to believe you. And
yet I am not sure that it is not best in some
cases to be a fool — or at least to appear like
one. It is so much the least troublesome plan
to hold one's tongue, and shut one's eyes, and
drift. Still, having begun, we ought perhaps
to go on — to come to some clearer understanding.
I don't know whether I make
myself intelligible."

Perfectly intelligible," answered Nina, composedly.
" You mean that you are an honest
man in a fog ; isn't that it ? "

She looked him full in the face as she spoke,
and her manner had a certain commiserating
condescension. It was the very sublimity of
impudence, if it was assumed ; but I am inclined
to think that it was not, and that she

really felt herself In some sense superior to him
for the moment.

You mean," she went on, '' that we are In a
false position, and that you would like to get
out of It, If that were In any way possible. But,
do you know, I can scarcely see how we are to
get out of It — unless It were by the help of
Sir James Hannen ; and I'm afraid the case is
not one for his Interference."

Claud made a slight movement of Irritation.
You speak as though you were not In the
least to blame."

Do I ? I didn't mean to do so. I daresay
I am to blame. I am heartless, good-for-nothing
— what you please. But I warned you :
you can't say I didn't warn you."

Warned me of what — that you proposed to
disgrace me ? "

Don't let us use ugly words — what Is the
good ? Listen, Claud," she continued, raising
herself from her recumbent attitude, and speaking
with a shade more earnestness. " I will
speak as openly as I can ; I will conceal nothing
from you ; and if at the end we are as much In
the dark as ever. It shall be no fault of mine.
Do you remember, one day before we were
married, my telling you I would never consent
to a long engagement ? "

Claud nodded.

And I told you why. I tried to make you
understand what I was, so that you should not
marry me with your eyes shut ; and always, from
the very first, I had tried to make you understand,
only you would not or could not. And
you don't understand now ; and I don't think
you ever will, because you are so different from
me. You are one of those people who never
intentionally do the things that they ought not
to have done, or leave undone the things they
ought to have done ; and you have a will, ora
conscience, or something that enables you
to resist temptation, and all that. Now, I am
the exact opposite. I suppose I haven't got
a will or a conscience. When I do wrong, I
am perfectly well aware of it, and I go on
doing it all the same. I never make good resolutions
now, because I know beforehand that
I shall infallibly break them. You might as
well try to keep a fly out of a jar of honey as
to keep me from yielding to temptation. All I
can do is to warn people of what I am ; and if
they won't be warned, isn't it their own fault ?
I am what I am ; I didn't create myself."

*' That is an easy way of evading responsibility
for one's actions," Claud could not help
observing.

She shrugged her shoulders. " I told you
you would not understand. When I told you
that if I were left to myself, I should be sure
to flirt with somebody, I was not thinking of
evading responsibility ; I simply meant to put
you on your guard — nothing more."

According to that, I might tell a man that,
if he irritated me, I should very likely murder
him, and then, if I did murder him, it would be
his own fault."

*' Well, I think he would be a great idiot to
irritate you after such a frank caution."

She was silent for a moment or two, as if she
expected him to speak ; but, as he said nothing,
she resumed presently : —

I suppose it has never occurred to you that
I might retaliate upon you, if I chose, or that
there could possibly be anything to be said on
my side of the question."

Claud sighed. " Mrs. Knowles told me that
I ought not to have sent you over to England
alone," he said ; " but I can hardly think that
you would urge that argument against me."

*' Oh no. I came over to England of my
own free will, of course, and remained here of
my own free will. It is not that."

What then ? "

Only that if you had cared for me a little

more, It would have made a difference. You
did care for me once ; but It didn't last long ;
and I warned you of that too. I don't blame
you. I should be the last person In the world
to do that ; for I know you can't help yourself ;
but there Is the fact — you don't love me anymore."


Claud winced ; for her shot had hit its mark.
He would have given the world to be able to
answer that he loved her still, but he could not.
For a moment he realized, as everybody does
now and then, the Impotence of poor humanity,
and saw clearly the relentless law of change
which no mortal can fight against, and felt the
miserable self-contempt of a proud man who
would fain be true and cannot be true. And
then, as was but natural, he tried to convince
himself that If change had come. It was not
by his fault, and that the evil might yet be
remedied. So he harked back to an old
grievance.

'' Why did you go away and leave me ?'' he
asked reproachfully.

Why ? Don't you think It may have been
for that very reason ? "

Honestly, he did not think so. He could
not accuse himself of any diminution In his love
for Nina up to the time when she had left him.

Nevertheless, he felt very near to forgiving his
wife. But he remembered all that she had
done, and how he was not the only one who
would suffer through her selfishness, and he
said to himself, " Not yet."

Then came another long silence, which Claud
was the first to break. He drew a little nearer
to Nina, and stood in the same attitude, resting
his elbow upon the mantelpiece, and looking
down upon her as she sat bending over the fire.

Nina," he said gently, "I believe you are
sorry for having caused all this trouble. I
don't think you would have done it, if you had
thought."

Her reply was hardly what he had expected.

I don't think I am sorry," she said considering.
" What does it matter ? I am
sorry that there should be such a fuss and
bother ; but, beyond that, I can't say that I
care much."

Claud jerked himself away from the mantelpiece,
and thrust his hands into his pockets,
tapping with his foot and frowning in impatient
incredulity.

I can't for the life of me see what is your
object in talking like that," he ejaculated.
Nobody could possibly be as heartless and
selfish as you affect to be."

Nina lifted up a smiling and wondering face.
"It isn't affectation," she said quietly; '' it's perfectly
genuine. What have I done that you
should expect me to repent in sackcloth and
ashes ? I haven't committed any crime that
I know of I have amused myself after my
fashion, and I suppose I always shall to the
end of the chapter. If you will be advised by
me, you will let me alone. I am not in the
least likely to ' disgrace ' you, as you call it, and
I shall not interfere with your amusements. I
haven't asked you how you have been spending
all this time in Paris, have I ? Some wives,"
she added, with a laugh, "would have been ina
great state of mind at the thought that their
husbands were at the theatre every day, talking
to pretty actresses."

Ah, I see it is hopeless," said Claud.

He walked away to the window, and looked
out at the fading landscape, his heart full of
angry despair. " The governor was right," he
thought to himself, with a bitter little laugh ;
matrimony is a deplorable institution."

What are you laughing at ? " asked Nina
from the other end of the room.

I am laughing," he answered, " at the results
of a runaway marriage. It's a capital
joke, isn't it ? I am not sure but that you
have the best of the laugh, though."

He returned slowly, and stood beside her
again. '' We have not a very cheerful prospect
before us ; but we must make the best of
it. I have only one thing more to say : I must
insist upon your going back to Paris with me
the day after tomorrow."

'' That I certainly shall not do," replied Nina
placidly.

'' Very well. Then I shall make you do it."

Claud's voice, as he uttered this threat, was
not very pleasant to hear; but she was in noway
moved by it.

'' Oh, but that's impossible, you know," she
said. " What can you do ? Will you bring a
fly to the door, and drag me into it by the
scruff of my neck ? "

*' I hope you will not make it necessary forme
to use force; but come you shall. You leave
me no resource but to speak to your father."

*' Poor old fellow ! Much good that will do
you ! Do you think he can coerce me, if you
can't ? Really, Claud, you had better give in ;
this dispute is getting horribly vulgar."

He could not but feel that it was; and, moreover,
that it was fast tending towards an anticlimax.
To own himself defeated would be to
abrogate his authority at once and for ever ;
and yet he was well aware that, if pushed to

extremities, he could not and would not carry
out his menace of resorting to violence. Out
of this dilemma one final chance of escape
suggested itself to him. *' Nina," he said, '' I
won't talk to you about your sense of duty or
your self-respect : you have shown me that it
would be a mere waste of breath to do that.
But I will appeal to what I believe you do
possess — good nature. You always used to
claim for yourself that you were good-natured."

My friends are pleased to consider me
so."

Well then, I will ask you to come away
from this place out of good nature, since you
won't allow me to put my request upon any
higher grounds. If you at all realize what you
are doing, you cannot be so selfish as to refuse.
Just consider ! — a week's gratification of your
vanity, or caprice, or whatever you like to call
it, against a lifetime of misery for others. In
spite of all, I don't think so badly of you yet as
to believe that you could hesitate, if you would
only think of it."

'' A lifetime of misery ! Do you imagine that
Freddy Croft is the sort of man to make himself
miserable for a lifetime ? "

*' I am not speaking of Freddy Croft ; I am
speaking of Genevieve."

Oh, she won't hurt ; she'll get over it," returned
Nina, rather brutally.

And when she spoke those words, it seemed
to Claud that he saw the woman for the first
time as she was. All that she had said before
was as nothing, compared with this insolent
cynicism, this utter disregard of the happiness
which she had destroyed ; and he felt that a
gulf had now opened between him and his wife,
across which they would never be able to join
hands again. Nevertheless, he answered her
calmly enough.

You think this will not hurt her ; that is
natural. You judge of her by what you are
yourself. But she is not like you — thank God!"

"To whomsoever the thanks may be due, she
certainly is not like me. She is no more like me
than you are, or than she is like Freddy Croft.
It is a thousand pities that she should be your
sister. If she had not been, you might have
married her, and I might have married Freddy ;
and then everybody would have been suited.
Really, if I am the means of breaking off her
engagement, I shall feel that I have performed
a most benevolent action, and saved her from
what you would call a lifetime of misery. It's
an ungrateful world ; but perhaps she may live
to thank me."

'' She will live to curse you, as I do ! " retorted
Claud fiercely.

Nina got up at once. *' If you are going to
forget yourself in that way I had better leave
you," she said.

He sprang to the door, and put his back
against it. '' You will leave this room when I
let you out, and not a minute sooner."

Nina looked at him ; and then, all of a
sudden, she became frightened. She fell back,
throwing up her arms instinctively, and gasping
out, ^' Claud! Claud! "

He saw in her face the reflection of his own,
and throwing open the door, rushed from the
room and out of the house, flying from he knew
not what.

In the cool air and the twilight his senses
soon returned to him ; but he did not think of
going back to the library. He wandered across
the wet lawn, to the cedar-tree under which he
had spent so many happy hours, and leaning
against the trunk, mused over all that had
come and gone in such a brief space of time.
He could fancy he saw Nina again, as he had
often seen her in those summer days that would
never return, moving, with the lithe grace that
was all her own, from sunlight to shade under
the branches of the old tree there — herself an

embodiment of sunlight. It was the same
Nina whom he had left just now in the library,
staring at him with dilated eyes of terror — the
same deceitfully candid, designedly reckless,
good-naturedly selfish creature with whom he
had fallen in love. But what had happened to
him, or to her, that the very peculiarities which
had so fascinated him a year and a half before
should now move him with nothing but aversion
? To such questions the answer is wanting
; and so Claud confessed to himself, with an
impatient sigh. All that was clear was that
somewhere a fatal mistake had been made.

A cold mist was creeping up the valley with
the darkness, as he walked slowly away, his
head bent, and his hands clasped behind his
back ; the heavy air was still and silent, except
for the small sound of drops of moisture falling
among the evergreens ; the cheerlessness of
the prospect made a fit accompaniment to his
melancholy reflections. " I shall have to make
over my allowance to her, and live in Paris
upon what I can earn," he was thinking. '' I
shall never be able to live with her. Poor old
governor ! he wasn't far wrong. Hang all
women ! — little shall they see of me for the
rest of my days. And the worst of it is that
she has beaten me — beaten me all along the

line ; though Heaven knows I had the strongest
positions. It wasn't a fair fight. What is one
to do with a woman if she drives you to a point
where words won't help you any more ? Ah !

if she had been a man " And he clenched

his fist involuntarily.

Now at that moment, as chance would have
it, a figure suddenly loomed up out of the fog
on the further side of the moat ; and presently
some one crossed the drawbridge with quick,
brisk steps, whistling, appropriately enough,
'* We don't want to fight ; " the ditty with
which, at that time, the ears of the British
public were chiefly afflicted. There was no
mistaking the identity of that joyous pedestrian.
Claud's heart gave a bound ; for had he not
here the answer to his wish ? He remained
motionless until the other had set foot upon the
gravel, and then took two strides forward, and
confronted him. Freddy started violence, and
fell back a step or two, the exclamation that
was upon his lips dying away when he saw
Claud's face. Claud came closer to him, drawing
his left fist slowly back to his shoulder.
Here, at any rate, a good substitute for words
was available.

But the blow was never delivered. No one
has ever accused Freddy Croft of lacking

pluck ; but we know the influence of a guilty
conscience upon the courage, and very likely
the suddenness of this encounter may have
robbed him of his presence of mind At all
events, he made another hasty movement of
retreat, and, missing his footing, fell heavily
backwards into the moat.

Claud burst out laughing. '' You have saved
me the trouble of knocking you down," he
called out ; " but I advise you to keep out of
my way for the next two days, if you value
your personal appearance."

And, without waiting for a reply, he crossed the
bridge, and strode away, feeling a trifle relieved.

Only when he was halfway down the avenue
did he remember the depth of the moat, and
that it was just on the cards that his late
antagonist might be badly hurt. He stopped
and listened : there was not a sound to be
heard. Then, rather unwillingly, he retraced
his steps, thinking, " After all, the fellow may
have broken his neck ; " and, advancing to the
brink of the moat, called out, " Hi ! Croft, are
you down there ? "

A faint moan was the only reply.

Claud scrambled down the bank, and groping
about in the darkness, found Freddy lying just
as he had fallen.

VOL. III. s

What's the matter, Croft ? What have you
done to yourself ? " he asked, in some anxiety.

I've broke my back, I think," answered
Freddy feebly.

Nonsense, man ! get up ! " returned Claud,
not choosing to acknowledge his alarm even to
himself.

I can't," said Freddy, " I haven't any feeling
in my legs. Just run round to the stables,
like a good fellow, and tell them to bring a
hurdle or something. I "

The speaker's voice ended in a long sigh,
and his head fell back.

*' Good God ! he's dead ! " ejaculated Claud.

As the faculties of a drowning man are said
to gain a supernatural grasp, and to embrace in
one comprehensive flash of memory the history
of a whole life, so at that moment Claud realized
in all its force the awful ruin that had fallen
upon him. He saw Genevieve's maiden widowhood
; he saw Lady Croft's despair ; he saw
Croft Manor passing into the hands of the faraway
next of kin ; he saw himself branded forever
as a murderer, if not in the eyes of the
law, at least in those of the world ; and knowing
what a far wider sorrow this man's death
would cause than his own could have done, he
longed, with a longing as intense as it was vain,

that he could only change places with him.
And all this while he was tearing open Freddy's
waistcoat and shirt, and thrusting his hand over
the heart which was still feebly beating.

The events of the next few hours were like
incidents in a horrible nightmare, which Claud
cannot bear to look back upon now ; yet will
never be able to forget. He remembers hurrying
back to the house, and that presently he
was in the moat again, with a little crowd of
servants and stable-helpers ; and they had
brought a shutter and lanterns ; and Nina was
there too, pale and horror-struck, and Mr.
Flemyng, speechless for once. He remembers
helping to carry the poor fellow indoors, and
that, as soon as they had restored him to consciousness,
something was said about getting
him into bed ; but Freddy begged so hard to
be taken home that it was finally thought best
not to agitate him by opposing his wish ; and a
waggonette was got ready, with a mattrass, onto
which he was lifted. One of the men was
going to saddle a horse and ride off for the
doctor ; but Claud, with that feverish craving
to be doing something which besets most
people at such times, intercepted him.

I can run there in less time than it would
take you to get a horse ready and ride," he

said ; and before the man could answer him, he
was off.

Claud was a swift runner, and knowing, as he
did, the exact position of the doctor s house, he
made straight across country for his point ; and,
considering that no groom was ever yet known
to saddle a horse in a hurry, he did perhaps
really accomplish the distance more quickly
than a horseman would have done. He dashed
on through the darkness, swerving at no obstacle,
scrambling over hedges and ditches,
breaking through fences ; and reached his destination
at last, breathless and exhausted, only
to be informed that the doctor had not yet returned
from his rounds. The stolid maidservant
who answered his ring, and who was
probably too familiar with anxious messengers
to be infected by his emotion, could give him
no clue as to her master's whereabouts. He
might be back at any moment, she said ; but
then again, he might not return before dinner-time.
" Mostly in general, he had his dinner
at seven o'clock ; but sometimes it was kep'
warm for him up to half-past eight. 'Tis just
as may be, you see, sir," said the exasperating
woman.

The end of it was that Claud paced up and
down the garden in an agony of impatience for

more than an hour before the lamps of the
doctor's dog-cart were seen approaching.

The doctor was an excellent little man in a
large practice — a trifle rough of manner; but
kind-hearted and absolutely indifferent to his
own comfort in the matter of food and sleep.
As soon as he had been told what had happened,
he turned his tired horse. " Jump up,"
he said to Claud shortly ; and in a few minutes
they were bowling along the high-road towards
Croft at a good round pace.

Not much was said on the way. One of the
pair was too agitated to be capable of thought
or speech upon any but a single subject ; and
the other, who was a man of few words, had
probably perceived that he could get no information
worth having out of his companion.
Claud remembers that, after a time, he was
sitting in the hall at Croft, waiting, like a
prisoner, to receive his sentence ; but how long
he sat there he has no idea. There was a
subdued stir and commotion going on, doors
opening and shutting overhead, servants hurrying
up and down stairs, exchanging strident
whispers, as the habit of their class is, when an
accident has occurred. Apparently, too, the
house was full of visitors — people in evening
dress, who crossed and re-crossed the hall, or

collected in groups, talking together In low
voices and looking oddly at Claud, but never
addressing him.

At length the doctor came down, and made
hastily for the door. Claud started up and followed
him, and as soon as they were outside —

'' Well ? " he asked eagerly.

The doctor had already gathered up his reins,
and had one foot on the step. " I am going to
send off a telegram to London," he said. " It
will be a comfort to them to have the best
advice."

** Can his life be saved ? "

Impossible to say : we must hope for the
best. But he will never walk again."

Claud hardly took in the meaning of this
announcement. His whole mind was filled with
one dread — a selfish one, if you like.

But will he live ? " he persisted.

** We must hope for the best," answered the
doctor again ; and drove away without another
word.

Claud staggered aimlessly out into the night.
He felt that Freddys doom and his own had
been pronounced.

CHAPTER XL

THE BEGINNING OF THE END.

'' Devilish hard luck for a man, I must say, to
meet with his death in that stooped way — devilish
hard ! Why, over and over again, when I
was afloat, I've seen a man fall clear from the
top-gallant rigging, and come down on the deck
slap ! — like a sack of potatoes, and be none
the worse for it a month afterwards. Smashed
a rib or two perhaps — something of that kind.
Upon my life, I sometimes think the men of
the present day ain't made of the same stuff
as we were. The idea of tumbling into a bit
of a ditch like that, and getting your back
broke!"

Not broken. Admiral, not broken. It is a
case of severe injury to the vertebral column, I
believe."

God bless my soul ! sir," cries the Admiral
testily, " what the deuce does it matter whether

it's a broken back or a severe what-d'ye-call-it,
so long as the poor beggar has got to die of
it ? "

** Not very much, certainly. But I am told
that cases of that description do not by any
means invariably or necessarily end fatally."

Don't they indeed ? For all that, young
Croft won't last out the week, I hear. But
perhaps you can give us a better report,
Pender : it seems you know all about it."

'' I only repeat what Dr. Soames told me,"
answers Mr. Pender meekly ; " and I suppose
you will allow that he is entitled to speak with
some authority upon surgical matters."

Don't know, I'm sure," growls the Admiral,
who does not love to be corrected. '' Never
had him in my house, I'm thankful to say. If
he don't treat his patients better than he plays
whist, I'm sorry for 'em, that's all ! "

Well, well ; he knows something about anatomy,
I presume ; and from what he tells me,
there is nothing unusual in this case. He says
you can't account for these things. One often
hears of marvellous escapes, and in the same
way it sometimes happens that a comparatively
slight accident has fatal results. Soames says
any one of us might have just as bad a fall
tomorrow, getting down from the box of a

carriage. So it Is ! — In the midst of life we are
In death. It is a most unfortunate business —
most unfortunate In every way," concludes Mr.
Pender, sighing heavily.

The little semicircle in the club window contracts
Itself ; grey heads approach one another,
and are wagged solemnly ; looks full of profound
meanlnof are interchanged.

I'm sorry for Flemyng ; I will say that.
He's a man whom I don't like ; but I'm sorry
for him," calls out the Admiral magnanimously.

General Blair is understood to second the
motion.

'' Ah, yes, indeed !^" chimes In the lugubrious
voice of Mr. Pender. '* When such affliction
comes Into a man's home, one would be very
unwilling to appear hard upon him ; but I must

confess However, least said, soonest

mended."

Some men would sell their souls to have a
baronet popping In and out of their house at
all hours," the Admiral Is constrained to observe,
after a manful effort to keep silence.

Whereupon Mr. Pender shuts his mouth with
a virtuous and inflexible air, and looks out to
sea. Presently he remarks that the glass is
falling, and that he shouldn't wonder If there
was snow about.

Did anybody see the accident happen ? "
inquires one of the group, who is not so well up
in matters of local interest as some of our
friends.

'' Oh, dear me, yes," answers Mr. Pender, ina
low, sad voice. " That is the worst of it. It
was young Gervis who came in, and told them
what had happened. I am afraid there can be
no doubt that there was a scuffle. I don't
think there has been any attempt made to disguise
that."

Oh, young Gervis ? Didn't I hear some
talk about an affair between his wife and poor
Croft ? " asks the ill-informed one.

'' God bless my soul, man ! why, it has been
the scandal of the county for the last three
months ! " cries the Admiral. *' There's no
hushing up a thing like that."

'' I fear not — I fear not," Mr. Pender agrees.
And he adds, with manifest reluctance, *' There
is nothing I dislike so much as talking about
matters which do not concern me ; but I fancy
that, before very long, you will hear some
things that will surprise you."

What things ? What d'ye mean ? " asks
the Admiral greedily.

But a profound sigh is Mr. Pender's sole
response.

** They'll have an inquest, of course," pipes
out General Blair.

Oh, I hope not. General. I hope that maybe
avoided."

"Eh.? — avoid it.? Cant avoid it. Can't do
without an inquest. Must have an inquest,"
says the General, in a tone of cheery anticipation.


I think you will find that that is a point
left to the discretion of the coroner," answers
Mr. Pender, who, by the way, somewhat resembles
the typical coroner himself in appearance,
and is evidently well acquainted with the
duties of that functionary. " You see," he continues
judicially, " this cannot be considered
exactly a case of sudden death. I should
hardly think — I won't speak too positively —
but I should hardly think that an inquiry would
be called for in the present instance. Of course,
if death had resulted immediately, the case
would have been different."

What ! " roars the Admiral, " do you mean
to tell me that, if I fall downstairs and break
my neck, I am liable to have a dashed coroner
prying into my house, and intruding upon my
wife and family, and pulling my corpse about ? "
The Admiral turns quite purple at the bare
notion of this imaginary profanation. " I should

like to catch him at it ! He'd go out a deuced
deal quicker than he came in, I can tell him ! "
shouts the indignant officer.

'' Well, you know, Admiral, you would hardly
be in a position to offer resistance under such
circumstances," observes Mr. Pender, with a
grim chuckle.

They say that poor girl is terribly cut up,"
the Admiral remarks, after a pause.

** Miss Gervis, do you mean "^ Ah, yes ; and
well she may be ! — well she may be ! " says Mr.
Pender. " I have always thought she was the
best of the family ; but I am afraid those
Gervises are a bad lot."

A deuced unlucky lot, it seems to me,"
observes the Admiral more charitably.

'' That may be ; but it is a question whether
a man has a right to call the natural consequences
of his actions unlucky. The moment
I heard that the young people had been sent
over from France post-haste, I said to Mrs.
Pender, ' You may be sure the whole truth has
come out at last.' No, Admiral, I would rather
not say any more, if you'll excuse me. You will
hear all about it in good time, I have no doubt."

'' A man who makes mysteries," the Admiral
begins in his most emphatic tones. But the
remainder of his speech cannot be recorded ;

for at this juncture, the reporter of the above
remarks, who had arrived in Beachborough the
night before, laid down the newspaper which he
had not been reading, and left the room.

They did not mean to be ill-natured, those
talkative veterans. A catastrophe was in some
sort a godsend to them, as varying the monotony
of their purposeless lives, and it was
hardly to be expected that they should refrain
from discussing and secretly enjoying this one
a little. As the news of a birth or a marriage
stirs the sympathies of all women, so that of a
death would appear to have a special attractiveness
for old men. And indeed the subject is
one in which they may well be excused for
feeling something of a personal interest. Yet
a little while and the Admiral and Mr. Pender
will be pronouncing their funeral oration over
General Blair ; and again a little while, and the
melancholy Pender — we will say — will be left
to deplore the consequence of his poor friend
Bagshawe's imprudent indulgence in port wine.
Nay, there is every reason to suppose that,
sooner or later, the humble writer and the
benevolent reader of these pages will be spoken
of in the past tense at their respective clubs,
and their several virtues and failings, their
debts or their legacies, descanted upon in no

broken-hearted accents. Those Beachborough
cronies would have been very much surprised
if they had been accused of heartlessness. Had
they not openly declared their sorrow at the occurrences
under consideration ? Had they even
committed themselves to a positive assertion
that the various reports flying about were true ?
They did but repeat what they had been told ;
and their opinion of Freddy's hopeless state
was, unhappily, only that of the posse of doctors
and surgeons who had flocked together
from Lynchester, Beachborough, and the whole
country-side to meet round his bed. A great
man was summoned from London, and, after
spending some hours at Croft, returned, taking
with him a cheque proportionate to his greatness
; but he could say little to console the distracted
lady who entreated and almost commanded
him to save her son. He was a shadeless
despondent — or less plain-spoken — than his
provincial brethren ; apprehended no immediate
danger ; and had even known of a few
cases in which the use of the limbs had been
recovered, after a similar accident. He did
not, however, profess to have discovered any
hopeful symptoms in the condition of his present
patient ; and upon the subject of treatment
and remedies he was ominously silent.

Freddy himself had been convinced from the
first that he was beyond help of these. He
bore his sufferings, which were very severe at
times, like a man ; only once or twice expressing
a hope that they would not last long. The
poor fellow did not want to live ; nor in truth
could life be greatly desired for him. Some
cripples there are for whom existence has yet
Its pleasures ; but no one could suppose that
Freddy Croft was likely to prove one of them ;
and indeed all those about him could not but
echo the wish that his time might be short.

All, that is to say, with one notable exception.
On the second day after the catastrophe,
Freddy called his mother, and begged her to
go over to Southlands, and bring back Genevieve
with her.

I have behaved like a scoundrel to her," he
said ; " but I don't think she'll refuse to come
and say good-bye to me."

So Lady Croft went ; and, it is needless to
say, met with no hindrance in the execution of
her task. In the carriage she endeavoured,
through her tears and sobs, to prepare Genevieve
in some measure for the revelation which
she knew that her son would make ; but the
girl, who was quite composed, interrupted
her.

Claud has told me all about it," she said.
We need not speak of it now."

The poor lady began to stammer out some
incoherent pleas in extenuation, blaming "the
woman," blaming Mr. Gervis, blaming everybody
except the unhappy culprit, who would
so soon be beyond the reach of either blame or
pardon.

Dear Lady Croft," said Genevieve gently,
*' do not make excuses for him ; they are not
needed. He was never really engaged to me,
you know ; and even though he had been, it
would have made no difference. I should not
have cared for him at all if I could not forgive
him anything and everything."

It is in the blood, my dear ; they are all the
same, and always have been ; they cannot help
themselves. If you knew how good he has
been all this year, and how he has changed his
habits ! — and all for your sake. But now there
is an end of everything."

''No, there is not," answered the girl firmly.
He will not die ; he will recover, and walk
again as well as ever. I have felt certain of it
from the very beginning."

Lady Croft shook her head, and buried her
face in her handkerchief But Genevieve repeated
her conviction.

"He will get Avell ; I know he will. You
will see. And supposing that I am wrong, we
shall be none the worse off for having hoped
while there was still hope. But I am not
wrong. I am as sure that we shall save him as
that I am sitting here."

And from this opinion nothing availed to
move her, then or afterwards. Her hopefulness
did, in the sequel, prove to be some comfort
and support to Lady Croft, who was only
too willing to grasp at straws ; but to others,
who knew that this inability to believe the
worst is no uncommon phenomenon, it was
very distressing.

What pleased Genevieve was the tacit acknowledgment
on the part of the whole household
at Croft of her right to be there. Lady
Croft had begged her to stay for a week — or
longer; and, perfectly understanding what was
implied in that indefinite limit, she could hardly
have refused, even had she wished to do so.
But at the same time it had been clear to her
that her position in the house would be an
equivocal, and might easily be made a very uncomfortable
one ; and therefore it was a relief
to her mind to be received and treated in all
respects as one of the family. Lady Croft
took her, with as little delay as possible, to the

VOL. iir. T

room where Freddy was lying ; and his sister,
who had been sitting by the bedside, got up at
once, and left the two together.

The meeting could not be otherwise than a
painful one ; and there was much to make it so
besides the conviction which one of them at least
felt that it was very nearly their last meeting
on earth ; but Genevieve had thought of all
that, and had made up her mind as to the
course she should adopt. It must have cost
her an effort to sit down in the chair just
vacated by Miss Croft, and to talk cheerfully of
the day when they had parted in the Bois, as
though all the subsequent sorrows that had
fallen upon them could be ignored ; but she did
it ; and if her treatment of the situation astonished
Freddy a good deal, it undoubtedly
had the desired effect of calming him, and
reducing the state of feverish excitement In
which he had been all day. When he began,
in a weak, trembling voice, to make his confession,
she stopped him with an uplifted hand.

That is all over and done with," she said,
'rand you must never trouble yourself with
thinking of it again. It does not trouble me,
because I know you love me best "

*' I was sure you would ! " he cried eagerly,
his hot hand grasping hers. " I have been an

awful fool, and worse than a fool — nothing is
too bad for me ; but I never for one moment
was untrue to you in my heart. I have been
utterly miserable ever since the beginning of
it ; and I never thought — I never intended — I
hoped, you know, I should be able to break
with it all ; only, I couldn't somehow — and old
Knowles told me — and I was very unhappy
about it ; but "

I know," she answered, smiling at him. '' I
can quite understand. Don't you remember
that evening of the ball at Southlands, and my
telling you that nothing would make any difference
in me, not even your loving some one
else, if that were to come ? So you see, a thing
of this kind, which was not your fault at all, is
not worth our remembering, and we won't
remember it. A great deal too much has been
made of it already."

How generous you are ! " he cried, with
moist eyes. " There is no one like you in the
world."

*' It is not generous to understand the truth,"
she said. '' But if there were occasion for it, I
could be generous — to you."

And I dare say she was thinking of someone
else, to whom it would not be quite so easy
to show generosity, and whose trespasses she

could hardly yet say to herself that she had
forgiven.

'' There is no one like you," he repeated. " I
wonder what could ever have made you care
for such a fellow as I am ! " And then, after a
brief silence, *' I suppose you didn't bring the
violin with you ? "

Yes, I did. Your mother was a little
shocked, I think, when she saw them put it into
the carriage ; but she said nothing, nor did I,
because I knew she would not understand.
But I remembered that you used to like to
hear me play."

'' You think of everything ! " he exclaimed
gratefully. " Poor old mother ! she sits herewith
her Bible on her knee, and a face as long
as your arm, and I can't say a word to comfort
her. There's no use in pulling a long face, is
there ? She thinks it awful of a man on his
death-bed to go on as I do ; but if it ain't wrong
to laugh in the beginning of your life, I can't
see why it should be wrong to laugh at the end
of it. Yesterday I horrified her by getting
Florry to read out a bit of ' Soapy Spunge ' tome.
Do you recollect where old Soapy Spunge
says he'll make 'em cry ' capivvy ! ' ? That
always used to make me roar. ' Capivvy,' don't
you know, instead oi peccavi — ha, ha, ha ! "

It was the ghost of poor Freddy's jolly-laugh
; but Genevieve forced herself to join in
it. She had never heard of the work to which
he alluded, and would not, perhaps, under any
circumstances have relished the quotations
which he continued to give from it to the full
extent that he did ; but she encouraged him,
and laughed with him, reminding him of old
jokes and old days ; so that, in less than an
hour, he felt and spoke more like himself than
he had done for months.

*' It's no use pulling a long face, is it ? " he
said again. But as the words passed his lips a
sudden spasm contracted his own.

'' Are you in pain, dear ? " asked Genevieve,
bending over him.

'' No — not much, at least — that's nothing.
But — but it's so hard to leave you. Gen."

'' You are not going to leave me," she whispered.
" You are going to stay with me for
years and years, I hope."

He shook his head. " It's all up with me ;
the doctors as good as told me so. I don't
complain. I had a jolly life while it lasted, and
we must all die some day. It's only "

'' Yes, I know. And you must remember
me. You must try to live for my sake."

Ah, if trying would do any good ! "

He did not tell her that he felt his strength
decreasing, slowly but surely, with every hour.
True to his life-long maxim of making the best
of things, he was anxious to maintain a cheerful
demeanour as long as he should be able to
manage it. He affected even to be partly convinced
by her sanguine prognostications ; and
possibly also the thought of saying farewell
may have made him distrust his courage a
little.

After some time, Genevieve said, *' Freddy, I
have a favour to ask of you."

Then you know beforehand that it is
granted."

** It is about Claud. He is so dreadfully
unhappy. I don't think he has slept at all, and
he has hardly eaten anything since — since that
evening. He says he can never forgive himself;
but I want you to see him, and say you
forgive him."

'' Forgive him ? Poor, dear old boy ! — what
for ? He hadn't anything to do with this."

'' He thinks he had."

*' Rubbish ! I started back when I saw him,
and I forgot about the moat, and down I went.
That was how it happened. It was no more
his fault than it would have been if my horse
had shied at him and pitched me off. And if it

came to forgiving, you know But we won't

talk about that. Where is he ? Is he here ? "

*' I don't know ; but I think very likely he Is
not far off. He hangs about all day long, asking
for news of you when he can get a chance ; but
he does not like to come into the house."

I never heard of such a thing ! I must
have him up at once. Would you mind ringing
the bell, and sending somebody to look for
him ? "

But Genevieve said she would rather go
herself. She slipped downstairs and out of the
house, unnoticed : and presently, sure enough,
she came upon her brother, wandering dejectedly
about the deserted cricket-ground.

Come in ; he wants you," she said, touching
him upon the shoulder ; and he turned, and
followed her, without replying.

He was in truth inconsolable ; and Genevieve
had made a mistake in supposing that the
assurance of Freddy's pardon could go to the
root of his grief. Of that he had felt tolerably
secure in advance ; for remorse had not so
blinded him but that he could perceive that
no reasonable man would dream of holding him
responsible for what had happened ; but the
fact remained that he would have to bear the
burden and consequences of guilt, and that

through him more than one Hfe must be
rendered desolate.

*' If you mean that a jury would not find me
guilty of manslaughter, I agree with you," he
said afterwards in Freddy's room, where Genevieve
had judiciously abstained from entering
with him; 'but that is cold comfort." And
again : " Put it in what way you will, it all
comes round to this — I did it. Suppose your
gun had gone off out shooting, and killed me ;
would you not have reproached yourself, even
though it had been the purest accident ? And
what I did was not pure accident."

He knew that, for the sake of the poor
fellow who was lying helpless there, he ought
to make some effort to disguise his owen misery ;
but the task was too hard a one for him. He
was exhausted by want of sleep, want of food,
and the persistent torment of a fixed idea ; and
it was only with difficulty that he could open
his lips at all. Nor was he able to delude
himself with a shadow of the hope which buoyed
up his sister. He had noticed immediately the
pinched, grey look that had come over Freddy's
features, and his heart had died within him
at the sight. It was a great relief to him when
Genevieve looked in at the door, and he could
feel free to go away and hide his despair.

But as he got up, Freddy plucked him nervously
by the sleeve. " Look here, old fellow ;
there's one thing I wanted to say to you. I
know I've no right to interfere ; but it's on my
mind. About your wife, I mean. I wanted to
tell you that you needn't worry yourself about
about her and me. It was all nonsense and
make-believe. And I say, Claud, old chap,
don't be too hard upon her. I saw, plain
enough, from the first day, that pique was at
the bottom of it all," continued this sagacious
observer, with one of those innocently knowing
looks which had sometimes made Claud smile
in days of yore. '' She said you were too good
for her, and that you didn't care a bit about her
and that. Gen has forgiven me ; don't you
think you might forgive her ? There ! I won't
say any more. I thought I'd just mention it,
and you won't take it as impertinence, I hope —
coming from a dying man, you know."

Claud said he certainly would not take it in
that way, and, shaking hands with his friend,
bade him good-night.

You'll come again, won't you ? " the latter
called after him.

Yes," he answered ; '' I shall be at hand
whenever you want me." And so departed.

Truth to tell, he had hardly given a thought

to Nina since he had left her : the great care
that weighed upon his mind had swallowed up
all lesser ones. But now, as he walked across
the park towards the inn where he had left his
horse — for he had shrunk from showing himself
to the servants at Croft — he remembered that
she also must surely be in sore trouble, and
what Freddy had said softened him towards her.
He took the explanation he had received for
what it was worth. Nothing could explain
away Nina's conduct, or her own candid admissions
; but what was the good of quarrelling
in a world where half the wrong that is done is
done unwittingly, and where the guilty and the
innocent are confused in a jumble of rewards
and punishments to which no man can hope to
find the clue ? What had made him so furious
lately seemed but a small matter now ; and
pardon was, after all, an easy boon to grant — if
that were likely to be of any use.

While his mind was thus feebly groping
among the outworks of a melancholy wisdom,
his body had been obediently performing its
allotted duty, and had brought him to the monstrous
and costly iron gates which were set up
in the time of the late Sir Montagu Croft. He
passed through these, and turning on the highroad,
found himself suddenly face to face with

Nina — Nina, advancing with a slow and listless
step, her face pale and drawn, and — oh, portent !
her hat unbecomingly pushed back from her
forehead. She had driven over from the
Moated House, and had left her pony-chaise
in the village, as he had left his horse, being
actuated, doubtless, by similar motives. If
Claud had not been predisposed towards leniency,
her bearing must yet have mollified him.
Approaching her, he gave her, without preface,
the latest news of the sufferer's condition ; and
presently they turned, and walked away, side by
side, half reconciled already by their common
sorrow and remorse.

Claud was ready to hold out the olive-branch,
but he was a little puzzled how to begin ; and
it was Nina who spoke first.

'' I suppose," said she, looking down upon
the ground, " there is no good in my saying I
am sorry."

There is good, if you mean it," answered
Claud, quickly.

But to this she made no rejoinder ; and how
was he to tell whether it was shame or pride
that kept her silent ? After all, this pardoning
process was not quite so easy as it had looked
from a distance. To forgive Is one thing ; but
how many men or women are there magnanimous

enough to forgive graciously ? I fear
that Claud was not one of that select few. All
he could find to say, after long cogitation — and
I am bound to confess that he did not say it ina
very pleasant voice — was —

"What is done is done. Let us agree to
pass a sponge over the past."

She looked up timidly. "It is so much the
best way ! "

Without doubt it was the best way ; and yet,
perhaps, she ought hardly to have said so.
However, Claud extended his hand, and she
took it ; and after that fashion peace was signed.
They were both glad to leave the subject.

Now, although matters had thus been
smoothed over between the husband and wife,
they not only continued to inhabit separate
houses — which, under the circumstances, could
hardly have been avoided — but manifested no
special eagerness to see more of one another.
They met, to be sure, every day, at the same
place, outside the gates of Croft Manor ; but
their meetings were not prearranged, and during
those interviews, which seldom lasted long, they
spoke exclusively of Freddy's health. Nina
never went beyond the lodge; but Claud was in
the sick-room for an hour or more daily, and gave
a curious account of what went on there. " He

has had all sorts of people to see him. Old
Colonel Finch came down the other day, and
is staying in the house now. Sometimes there
are three or four men in the room at once,
chatting about racing prospects, just as if he
would be out again next season ; and he seems
to enjoy it, poor fellow ! But what he likes
best of all is to get Gen to play the violin to
him. Yesterday he made her give him the
instrument, and show him how to play a scale ;
and he scraped away, lying on his back there,
and they laughed like a couple of children. No
one would suppose that he was near death ; and
yet I know he thinks he is himself, and I fancy
I can detect a shade of difference in him everyday."


One afternoon, Claud had a piece of intelligence
to communicate, which astonished his
wife not a little. *' Freddy and Gen are going
to be married."

She did not understand him. " I am afraid
that will never be," she said.

'rit is going to be. The marriage is to take
place immediately."

"Where i^ — in his room, do you mean ?"

Yes. He has taken it very strongly into
his head; and I believe Lady Croft wishes it
too. Of course, no one can object. They have

got a Special license ; and the ceremony Is to be
performed the day after tomorrow, unless — it
should be necessary to perform it sooner."

Nina did not speak for a few minutes. 'poor
things ! " she sighed at last ; " it is an odd
fancy."

'' Do you think so ? I can understand that
he should wish her to bear his name after he Is
gone : the wish does not seem to me an unnatural
one. But I confess that I dread the
scene. There are a number of people whom
he wants to be present. The governor is
coming, and Mr. Knowles, who drove over
from Beachborough yesterday to see him. And
he wished me," added Claud, in a somewhat
altered voice, " to ask you if you would come
too."

Nina flushed. *' Oh, I would so much rather
not ! " she exclaimed. " That is, I will be
there, of course, if you think he really wishes
it, or that it would look unkind to stay away ;
but it would be dreadful to have to face them
all."

You can do exactly as you like," Claud
said, not very cordially.

Then I won't go. It would be rather —
bad taste if I did ; don't you think so ? "

Claud made no answer.

*' I am sure it would," she said.

Nevertheless, when the day came, she
changed her mind — having, I should imagine,
balanced brood taste against a combination of
benevolence and feminine curiosity, and found
that the former consideration kicked the beam
and It struck me that her presence pleased
poor Freddy more than It did her husband.

Mr. Gervis was kind enough to offer me a
lift over to Croft In his brougham, and he was
so exceedingly cynical and unfeeling in his
remarks by the way, that I felt sure he had
some genuine emotion to conceal. He began
by observing that he should sincerely regret
poor young Croft as an individual ; but that asa
son-in-law he should feel resigned to the loss
of him.

'* For I need not point out to you," said he,
with a sidelong glance at me, '' that he would
Infallibly have caused us all an Immensity of
annoyance by-and-by. In the nature of things,
he would have developed one form of vice or
another ; and, so far as I am able to understand
my daughter, she Is not the sort of person to
take a calm, philosophical view of vice. I look
upon this," he went on, *ras a truly providential
dispensation — or shall we say a real stroke of
good luck ? — for Genevieve. For several years

she will be able to indulge in the luxury of
grief; and then, when she marries again, and
has to undergo all the abominable plagues
which are inseparable from married life, she
will always be able to fall back upon the happy
memory of having once belonged to a faultless
being. It is not to every one that these mercies
are vouchsafed."

The old gentleman's face,' when he encountered
his daughter-in-law in the hall, was
a study. I fancy that, if ever he had felt a
strong dislike in his life, it was for Mrs. Nina
that he had reserved that sentiment ; but in
the suave courtesy of his greeting, and in the
solicitude with which he trusted that her health
had not suffered from all these agitations, there
was but so faint a spice of irony that I should
have been very sorry to swear to its existence.
In the whole course of my acquaintance with
him, I can only remember once to have heard
him say a downright ill-natured thing of anybody
; and that was of Lady Croft, who came
to the top of the staircase to meet us, sobbing
hysterically.

Who was that woman before she married ? "
he whispered to me, as we followed her along
the corridor. And when I told him — *' An old
family ? " he inquired. I said she had been

an heiress, and that I believed her father had
made his fortune by the invention of some
patent drug.

Ah ! so I should have supposed," he remarked.
"That obstreperous grief sent so,
canaille (Tune lieuer

For my own part, I confess that I was in
some danger of famine under the ban of Mr.
Gervis's displeasure and forfeiting my title to
gentility ; and that not so much from the sight
of the unfortunate mother's distress, as from the
enforced cheerfulness of the rest of the party,
whom we presently joined. Colonel Finch-was
rubbing his hands and talking very fast to
Miss Croft ; Claud was turning over the leaves
of a Prayer-book with trembling fingers, pointing
out the responses in the service for the
solemnization of matrimony to Freddy, and
cautioning him in a nervously jocular manner
against answering at the wrong time ; the bride,
pale as a ghost, but with a determined smile
upon her lips, was standing beside him. The
strain was too great, and I feared lest at any
moment it should end in a general break down.
We were the last to enter the room ; and the
ceremony was immediately proceeded with —
Which I was thankful for.

It was soon over ; for the clergyman merci-vol.

III. U

fully omitted the greater part of that marriage
service which is not, according to my humble
notions, a very beautiful or impressive rite at
the best of times, and which he must have felt
as we all did, to be painfully inappropriate to
the circumstances of the case. Standing by the
bedside in his white surplice, and reading In a
low, murmuring voice, he had more the appearance
of administering the viaticum than of
pronouncing the Church's blessing upon the
union of a young couple ; and I dare say he
was as glad to shut up his book, and get away,
as we were to be relieved of his presence.

After the register had been duly signed there
came a moment of embarrassment. Custom has
provided us with certain useful, meaningless
phrases which rise naturally to our lips when
the common Incidents of life call upon us to
congratulate or condole with our fellow-creatures
; but It is only persons of quick wits
and exceptional presence of mind who can rise
to the level of an extraordinary emergency ;
and I suppose that none of us answered to that
description ; for we stood looking at one
another uncomfortably and not speaking a
word. At length Freddy's weak voice made
itself heard.

'' I should like to say good-bye to you fellows

before you go. The chances are I shan't have
another opportunity."

So each of us in turn bent over him, and
shook him by the hand. I believe I said
something stupid about "while there's life
there's hope," and " see you again soon, old
fellow." I ought, of course, to have held my
peace, and I had no sooner spoken than I
knew it ; but ah, dear me ! how many times
in my life have I had to make the same confession,
and to feel the same humiliating disgust
with myself? The only comfort is that my
utterances cannot be of much importance to
anybody, and that probably those who hear
them forget them long before I do. Directly
after I had said this senseless thing, I looked
round apprehensively for Mr. Gervis ; but he
had already vanished. He confided to me
afterwards that he thought these solemn leave-taking
were in the worst possible taste ; and
whether, as he implied, this had been his reason
for leaving the room, or whether he had felt
some faint distrust of his own powers of self-command,
I am unable to say.

The truth is that Freddy's leave-taking was
anything but solemn. To some natures it is
not given to perceive the sadder and more
serious aspects of life, and I know not what

should make them view its close with other
eyes, unless it be fear — to which our brave
little man had always been a stranger. Lady
Croft, I am afraid, did not think the scene a
very edifying one ; but to my mind there was
nothing shocking in it ; and I can only hope
that when my own turn comes, I may be able
to meet friend Death with as cheerful and composed
a countenance.

Freddy had signed his will at the same time
as the register, and it appeared that he had
made a few small bequests to some of us who
were present.

I've left you the brown cob, Colonel," he
said to old Finch, who was leaning over the
rail at the foot of the bed. '' You know the
one you used to ride to the meets sometimes.
Just what you want for the Park in the mornings.
Give him plenty of exercise, and you'll
be all right on him ; but don't keep him too
long in the stable, or he'll be bucking you over
his head in the middle of Rotten Row one of
these fine days. Doctor, I've left you a horse
too. I don't know whether you remember him
that flea-bitten grey that used to belong to
Lynchester. You'll find him a little awkward
at starting ; but that don't matter in a two-wheeled
trap. Keep on turning him round.

and he'll make up his mind after a bit ; and
once he's off, he'll go as quiet as a sheep."

So he went on with the list, his voice growing
gradually weaker, and the pauses becoming
longer between each sentence. At last he said :
There's only one thing more. I want you all
to listen to this. There's been a lot of talk, I
hear, about how I came to smash myself up ;
and some people say one thing and some
another ; so I may just as well put it right
before I go. It was the sort of thing that
wouldn't happen once in a hundred times, I
suppose ; and yet there wasn't anything very
extraordinary about it. I was standing talking
to Claud there, and it was in the dark, you
know ; and I took a step back, quite forgetting
that I was upon the edge of the moat ; and so I
fell. So now you know all about it ; and that's
the whole truth, and "

No," interrupted Claud suddenly, in a hollow
voice which made us all start ; " it is not
the whole truth. Why should we disguise what
every one suspects ? It was I who killed him."

Hold your tongue, you idiot ! " eagerly
whispered some one whose zeal for the welfare
of mankind has sometimes been miscalled
officiousness. For the fact was I remembered
what those horrible old men had said about an

inquest ; and besides, how could any good purpose
be served by letting strangers into the
secret of bygone family dissensions ?

But my intervention came a little late. Claud
had said all that he intended to say, and now
walked away to the window, and stood there,
resting his forehead against the glass.

"He kill me ! " cried Freddy, with a feeble
laugh ; *' that's a good joke. What ? Claud
Gervis — the best friend I have in the world.
You don't believe that, I should hope. However,
I'll take my oath, if you like, that he never
laid a hand upon me." And then, 'perceiving
that Claud had moved out of sight, he raised his
finger to his forehead. *' Poor old boy ! " he
whispered ; " all this has upset him ; he don't
know what he's talking about. Now, if you
don't mind, I think I should like to be left to
myself for a bit. I'm beginning to feel rather
done, and I expect I'd better try and do a turn
of sleep."

Just as we were leaving the room, I heard
Genevieve call to the doctor, '' Will you come
here, please ? I think he has fainted."

Had he fainted ? Colonel Finch, who took
my arm to walk down the corridor, explaining
that he felt a touch of the gout coming on, was.
not of that opinion.

'rit's all over — all over — what ? Poor young-fellow
! To be taken like that, when such useless
old men as you and I are left to encumber
the earth — encumber the earth. I'd have given
half I possess sooner than this should have
happened. I would indeed — what ? "

The Worthy Colonel had to withdraw his arm
from mine in order to blow his nose loudly ; and
perhaps I was not sorry to have a hand free for
the same purpose. Mr. Gervis would have
driven me back to Beachborough, but I said I
preferred to walk ; and in truth I don't think I
could have borne his society at that especial
moment.

CHAPTER XII.

THE END.

I HAVE always thought that it was much too
bad of Freddy, after harrowing our feelings in
the manner just described, to get perfectly
strong and well again ; and I can never remember
my twelve-mile tramp from Croft to
Beachborough without burning indignation. It
is, however, only fair to him to say that he himself
was very properly and thoroughly ashamed
of his conduct in this matter. One of his first
acts, after it had become evident to him that he
really was not going to die, was to send the
flea-bitten grey over to Dr. Soames's stable ;
the brown cob was, in a like becoming spirit,
despatched by train to Colonel Finch ; while to
Mr. Gervis he made the only amends in his
power, in the shape of a handsome letter of
apology for having married his daughter upon
false pretences. That gentleman did not fail to

point out to him by return of post that such an
expression of regret, if insincere, was discreditable,
and, if genuine, in the last degree uncomplimentary
to the lady ; adding a hope that, if
Genevieve should ever see reason to concur in
it, she would profit by past experience, and engage
her husband in exciting conversation upon
the brink of a precipice, not a mere ditch —
which last was obviously not to be relied upon
as an antidote to the ills of matrimony.

But all this took place long afterwards, when
Genevieve had been Lady Croft for more than
eighteen months ; for it need hardly be said that
Freddy did not recover in a day. For many
weeks his life hung by a thread. He grew
better, and worse, and better again, and the
doctors had a grand time of it with him ; but no
one, except Genevieve, expected that he would
ever leave the house alive — much less that he
would handle a cricket-bat again, as I saw him
doing, only the other day, in a highly effective
manner. It was Genevieve, he declares, who
saved his life. " My poor old mother," says he,
^* would have wept me into my grave in a week,
don't you know ; but Gen stuck to It that I was
to get all right, and after a time I said to myself,
' Hang it all ! It ain't quite the fair thing tolet
her go on whipping and spurring like this

without making a kick for it.' And so I began
to pull myself together."

This view, it may be added, is fully shared
by the Dowager, whose love and admiration for
Genevieve are unbounded : so much so that
experienced persons, after listening to her rhapsodies,
are wont to shake their heads, remarking
that so much enthusiasm is contrary to the
nature of mothers-in-law, and portends a speedy
reaction. It is, however, gratifying to be able
to state that, to the best of my belief, no coolness
has arisen between the two ladies up to the
present time of writing.

Now, whether our friend's restoration to
health was due to his having '' made an effort,"
after the fashion vainly urged upon her by the
relatives of the late Mrs. Dombey, or to his
fine constitution, or to the fact that his spine
was not as badly injured as had at first been
supposed, I shall not pretend to determine ; but
certain it is that before the spring was far
advanced, it was found possible to move him
from one room to another upon a wheeled
couch, and, shortly afterwards, to take him into
the open air for an hour or two every day.
This was a great point gained ; but it by no
means satisfied the aspirations of Genevieve.
He was still supposed to be dying, though

taking a somewhat unreasonable time over it ;
and as the days went on, she formed a decided
opinion that he would never be permitted to be
convalescent until he should have been removed
from his present surroundings. Therefore,
when the summer came, she resolved upon
taking a bold step. She carried him off vz et
annie to the German baths, despite the protestations
of the Dowager and the reluctant
consent of the doctor, and ere long was able to
send home a triumphant report of the invalid's
progress.

They spent the next winter at Vienna, under
the supervision of a famous specialist, whose
name it is not prudent to mention in the hearing
of Dr. Soames, but whose treatment, to all
appearances, achieved a result which his English
confreres had declared to be all but impossible.
Soames will not allow this at all. To
begin with, he denies having ever used the
word " impossible ; " secondly, his diagnosis of
the case abundantly proves to all unprejudiced
persons that in his judgment there was room
for hope from the first ; thirdly and lady, he
is prepared to prove, in the clearest possible
manner, that the German fellow's course of
procedure was utterly irrational. Now, without
going quite the same length as Admiral

Bagshawe, who roundly asserts that doctors are
''a dashed pack of quacks and swindlers, the
whole lot of 'em," I will yet venture — being in
fairly good health at the present time — to
observe that I have found so much diversity of
opinion in the ranks of their admirable profession
that I should hesitate to accept the
decision of any half-dozen of them as absolutely
final ; and I must say that, whatever their private
views may have been, they certainly contrived
to convey to my mind, and to those of
others, the impression that Freddy Croft was a
doomed man. Otherwise I should hardly have
taken the fatiguing and most unpleasant walk
to which I have alluded. However, he is out
of their hands now ; so it does not greatly
signify. The important thing is that, during
the second summer after his accident, he was
walking about the alleys of Franzensbad without
even the aid of a crutch or a stick. Then
it was that he thought fit to send his tardy
apology to Mr. Gervis, who was staying at
Southlands at the time, and who was kind
enough to show me both the letter in question
and the reply which he had written to it.

Mr. Gervis is not much at Southlands nowadays.
He comes down every now and again,
and remains for a week or so ; but he has taken

a small house in London, which he has heated
by means of hot-water pipes to a temperature
like that of a conservatory, and which, I believe,
he considers his home — so far as he can be said
to have a home at all. For the wandering
habits of so many years have not forsaken him
in his old age, and whenever he appears in
Beachborough one may be pretty sure that the
white sails of the Seen will be seen rounding
the pier-heads before long.

Ponetzky died at Nice within a few months
of his resumption of his true name and title ;
and it must be recorded to the credit of the
Princess that she took up her abode with him
during his last illness, and surrounded him withall
the comforts that money could procure.
Through her he bequeathed to Genevieve what
I dare say was the only possession of any value
that he had in the world, a very large and
beautiful turquoise, which she has had set in a
ring, and always wears. Immediately after the
news of his death reached England, Mr. Gervis
started upon a journey of which the end and
object have never transpired ; though a chain
of circumstantial evidence leads me to suspect
strongly that it terminated in the South of
France. The reader will scarcely be surprised
to hear that he has not resumed the matrimonial

collar which for so long a time galled his
withers ; but, knowing what I do — or, to speak
more honestly, knowing as little as I do — of the
man, I should be sorry to affirm that he did not
offer to perform this act of self-sacrifice. If he
indeed did so, Varna probably had the good
sense to decline the generous proposition.

Varna has returned to Paris, and is once
more domiciled in the Boulevard Malesherbes,
having doubtless discovered that General
Karakoff's inconsiderate behaviour has not
robbed her of any of her friends, and that
the world is, after all, inhabited by a race full
of forgiveness and charity, at least towards
those who have plenty of money in their
pockets. As the Princess appears to have an
unlimited supply of this essential blessing, it
may be presumed that her visit to St. Petersburg
ended satisfactorily. She entertains as
liberally as of old ; and I understand that a
stream of light is often to be seen issuing from
the windows of the little room at the end of her
suite during the small hours of the morning.
It would not astonish me to hear of her having
been led to the altar a fourth time ; for she is
rich and pretty, and still charmingly youthful in
appearance, and she is one of those people who
never know when they are well off.

Mr. Gervis does not fail to call in the Boulevard
Malesherbes whenever he is in Paris ; and
Claud tells me that his father and the Princess
are the best of friends, and that incidents of
bygone years are frequently referred to by both
of them, without the smallest embarrassment
on either side.

*' It is astonishing," Mr. Gervis remarked
one day to my grandmother, 'what an entertaining
and agreeable creature a woman can be,
so long as you know that you can get away
from her as soon as you please. Women, my
dear Mrs. Knowles, are like this delightful fire
of yours, comforting to sit beside, pleasant to
look upon ; — but we have all heard of the painful
process by which pcit6 de foie gras is made.
My dear madam, do you not pity the poor
goose who voluntarily lets himself be tied
down in a position from which he cannot
escape, and exposes his liver to the certainty of
destruction ? "

It is not, however, for the sake of chatting
with the fascinating Varna that Mr. Gervis
pays such constant visits to the French capital,
but to see his son, who lives there, and who
would fain induce him to occupy a room which
was set apart for his especial use long ago.
But Mr. Gervis has always declined to take

advantage of this hospitality. He prefers, he
says, the independence of an hotel ; but
perhaps, if the truth were known, he does not
care to live under the same roof with Nina ;
for that lady, despite her confident boast of
former days, has not yet succeeded in making
a conquest of him.

Claud has become one of those whose privilege
It is monstrari digits pr ester gentium. He
has earned a high reputation, not only as a
writer of plays, but also as an essayist, and has
thus gained two separate circles of Parisian
admirers ; for I imagine that those who appreciate
him in the one capacity have little knowledge
of his merits as regards the other. He
is always busy ; he has a large and heterogeneous
acquaintance, and he keeps up an
establishment in the neighbourhood of the
Champs Elysees, the cost of which must figure
for a respectable sum in his father's banking
account. There is, indeed, no longer any
reason for Mr. Gervis to be otherwise than
generous in his dealings with him ; and, as a
matter of fact, the young people live at a rate
far higher than Claud's literary earnings could
possibly warrant. During the summer they
usually spend three or four months at South-lands,
the owner of the house being commonly

absent at that season. Their frequent entertainments,
and their readiness to take a share
in all local burdens, whether of a charitable or
hospitable kind, have secured them a widespread
popularity ; but, for that matter, Mrs.
Gervis is popular everywhere, in France and in
England alike. She is, I should fancy, a perfectly
contented woman. She is at liberty to
employ the most expensive dressmakers, and
avails herself of her prerogative ; she goes a
great deal into the world ; she is universally
admired ; yet she has never given her husband
cause for uneasiness on her account a second
time. The terrible lesson of two years ago has
not been thrown away upon her ; and even
Beachborough now sings her praises. I know
of no one who more adroitly tempers freedom
of intercourse with discretion.

As for Claud, everything leads me to believe
that he is contented too. He has, at all events,
so much to make him so, that he must be very
unreasonable if he is not. I don't suppose that
he is supremely happy ; but we must not look
for a glut of supreme happiness, even in novels.
It is surely enough if, at the end of our history,
we can point to one household as the home of
terrestrial bliss ; and as such I really think that
Croft Manor may, without exaggeration, be

VOL. III. X

described. Freddy and Genevieve are as much
in love with one another as they were on their
melancholy wedding-day ; and, to all appearance,
they are likely to remain so. Their
dissimilarity of nature and tastes has proved
anything but a misfortune to them. It has
opened fresh horizons to them both ; it has led
them to make mutual willing concessions ; and
I am sure that neither of them would wish
the other to be changed in the smallest particular.
They understand one another, in short ;
they have confidence in one another ; and in
such a happy state of affairs is to be found,
I should suppose, the basis of matrimonial harmony.
Their manner of life is far quieter than
that of their neighbours at Southlands ; but it
is by no means dull. Genevieve, as might
have been expected, is rather fond of filling the
house with dishevelled musical dilettanti ; but
Freddy, on his side, stipulates for the introduction
of a less intellectual and artistic element
into the company ; and the two sets of guests
have been made to amalgamate without difficulty,
and, let us hope, with reciprocal benefit.

The cricket-week is still an annual institution.
If the festivities which accompany it are conducted
in a somewhat more decorous manner
than of old, the change is probably due to the

influence of a lady who contrives to make herself
obeyed after a quiet fashion ; and Indeed
Lord Lynchester, who stands rather in awe of
the present Lady Croft, has been heard to
lament that she has not a little more '' go " in
her. Freddy, he says, isn't half the man he
used to be.

'' But what can you expect," he adds, " if
fellows will Q-Q and ore married ? I can't think

o o

what the deuce they do it for. I wish I hadn't,
I know ! "

To which Colonel Finch responds, " Well,
Lynchester, nobody can accuse you of behaving
as if you had — eh ? — what ? "

Miss Potts is often to be seen taking constitutional
in the neighbourhood of Croft Manor.
She was entreated to make that house her
home, but, after some wavering, decided in
favour of those rooms on the north side of
Oxford Street which had formed the subject
of her day-dreams for so long. When she
wants a change, she comes down to Croft,
knowing that she will always be welcome there.
She is happy in the sight of her former pupil's
happiness ; and I may add that her modest
vision has been realized in all its details.

When the Gervises are at Beachborough,
there is, of course, a constant interchange of

visits between Croft Manor and Southlands.
Freddy has a great affection, not unmixed with,
reverence, for Claud, whose advice he seeks
upon all occasions of importance, and whom he
classes in his own mind with Homer, Shakspeare,
the author of '' Soapy Spunge," and other
geniuses of a lofty order. Claud, for his partis,
I think, as fond of his simple, kind-hearted
little brother-in-law as he is of any one in the
world. Their friendship grows stronger as they
grow older, and neither of them is likely to
allow anything to disturb it.

Whether a similar feeling of attachment
unites their wives is another question. I have
observed that the two ladies never meet without
kissing one another ; and I have likewise
observed that, as soon as this salutation has
been accomplished, the countenance of each of
them is wont to be illumined by a happy, peaceful
smile, such as nothing but the sense of a
duty performed and a conscience at ease can
call forth. Freddy often remarks what a good
thing it is that Genevieve and Nina should be
such friends ; " because," says he, with one of
his knowing looks, ** it isn't always that sisters-in-law
hit it off, don't you know."

The last news that reached me from Beach-borough
pointed to a change in the representation

of the borough. It is understood that
Mr. Pettigrew, who is now a very old man,
does not intend to offer himself for re-election ;
and I hear that certain overtures have been
made, and favourably received, and that the
chairman of the Conservative party has latterly
been in constant communication with South-lands.
There is thus fair ground for predicting
that, before this book is in the hands of the
reader, Claud will be in a position to tack the
initials M.P. on to his name. Should this
anticipation be realized, I shall expect to hear
of his coming to the front in political life in
the course of a few years ; for he is clever, unassuming,
and fond of work ; he has a pleasant
address, and a sufficient share of ambition ;
and he is blessed with a wife whose social
adaptability may, at some future date, prove of
service to him.

THE END.

PAINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, LONDON AND Eccles.

<^
