ViDAL

ys^j^,

sm^

W. E. NORRIS

^$^^sft^l

m*rmf^'^''^' r-^^ ^T-r-.r ^ - .^^-^

'L I E) Mary

OF THL
UNIVERSITY
Of ILLINOIS

M4-7aa

THOMAS lErmy lAERM.
Abner HALL.

Ui ^%

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/adrianvidal01norr

^

VOL. I.

BY

W. E. NOEEIS

AUTHOR OF

>'0 New Thing' ' MADEMOISELLE DE MERSAC ' 'MATRIMONY'

ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES

YOL. I.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[All rights reserved

V. 1

CD

CO

CONTENTS

OP

LO THE First VOLUME.

I CHAPTER PAGE

CJ

Q I. A CHANCE ENCOUNTER 1

II. heriot's friends 20

■^ III. AFTER DINNER 37-

IV. MISS IRVINE 45



V. IN THE CLOUDS

\ VI. * SI JE VOUS LE DISAIS . . . . 84

s

^ VII. A LITTLE DISCOURAGEMENT . . .106

VIII. Andrew 135

IX. THE REWARD OF Self-denial . . .165

CONTENTS OF THE FIRST VOLUME

Chapter lAGE

X. A SUMMER AFTERNOON 180

XI. DREAMS 108

XII. HERIOT'S wedding present . . . 218

XIII. LADY ST. Russell 227

XIV. ANGLING 258

XV. MR. AND MRS. ADRIAN VIDAL . . . 289

CHAPTEE I.

A CHANCE ENCOUNTER.

A YOUNG man was sitting before a writing-table
in his bedroom at that overgrown caravanserai,
the Schweizerhof, at Lucerne. By his elbow
lay a burnt-out pipe ; a few books of reference
and various scribbled notes surrounded the
blotting-book over which he was bending ;
while beneath his hand a blank half-sheet of
foolscap was waiting — and had, indeed, been
waiting some little time — to receive the first
strokes of the hovering pen. But the pen
continued to hover dubiously ; the hand that
VOL. I. B

9k

held the pen shook ; the brain which should
have been conveying directions to the hand
was worried and unmanageable, as well it
might be. For of all positions in which an
author can choose to place his writmg- table,
that beside an open window overlooking a
glaring lake is probably the least advantageous ;
and, of all buildings, an hotel is about the most
unsuitable for the work of composition. Again,
of all hotels the Schweizerhof is one of the
busiest ; finally, of all towns in Christendom
Lucerne is quite the most distracting noisy.
Church bells jangle and boom there perpetually
; steamers shriek, carts rattle over the
stones ; porters, for ever loading and unloading
omnibuses, yell at one another ; and the proprietors
of the hotel — fearing, no doubt, that
these cheerful sounds may not suffice to keep
up the spirits of their guests — have not shrunk
from adding to them a full private band, which
scrapes and soothes indefatigably beneath the.

windows. From early morning to midnight,
or near it, the hubbub rages, until one ceases
to wonder that the poor clerk, feverishly totting
up accounts in the bureau should look so like
an escaped lunatic.

The author on the second floor was already
beginning to display points of resemblance to
that overworked official. His face was haggard,
his sighs were piteous to hear, and his
fair hair would have been dishevelled if it had
been long enough. As it was, he had only
succeeded in rubbing all trace of a parting out
of it, and causing it to stand up in abrupt tufts
here and there, so that anyone who had not
known what he was about might have supposed
him to have just tumbled out of bed. For
the rest, he was a good-looking young fellow
enough, his forehead being broad and square,
his nose straight, and the grey eyes beneath his
somewhat arched brows large and expressive.
A slight moustache hardly concealed his mouth,

B 2

which a physiognomist would at once have pronounced
to be the mouth of an artist or aii
imaginative writer. A practised physiognomist
might, even at this early period of Adrian
Vidal's career, have seen reason to place him
in the latter category, for he bore certain outward
signs of the nervous literary temperament,
and already upon his forehead were faintly
traced those horizontal lines which the plough
of Time so soon deepens into furrows. The
lines were rather more perceptible than usual
just now, owing to the causes above alluded to.

Amid, one might as well be in London
you know,' he exclaimed aloud, addressing
himself in a tone of gentle remonstrance to
space. ' In all my born days I never heard
such an infernal din. And this in the month
of May, too ! What can it be like in summer,
when the tourists are loose ? '

Adrian Vidal had never been at Lucerne
before, or he certainly would not have fallen

into the error of supposing that it is a quiet
retreat at any time, unless it be in the dead of
the winter — and even then, most likely, the
church bells do not cease from troubling. In
the month of May travellers alight there from
all quarters. Some, like our misguided author,
come from the north ; not a few invade it from
over the German frontier; but it is the south,
whence the great army of invalids is then
wending its way homewards, that supplies the
little town with the bulk of its fugitive guests.
From Egypt, from Algeria, from Italy, from
the Elvira they pour over the mountains, or
burrow under them, and alighting, with querulous
buzzing and murmuring, for a night, pass
on, to be succeeded on the following day by a
crowd as large and as uproarious. Just now —
for the afternoon was on the wane, and two
trains and a steamer had come in — a strong
contingent of them had arrived at the Schwerin
Yidal could hear them stamping up

and down the corridors, calling to their servants,
scolding the waiters, ringing their bells,
and slamming their doors.

Presently there came a knock at his own
door, one of those irresolute, deprecating taps
which are so much more irritating to the nerves
than a loud bang.

Oh, come in ! ' said the young man resignedly.


However, nobody took advantage of the
permission, so he sighed and began to cudgel
his brains once more. After about a minute
the timid signal was repeated.

Entrez ! Herein ! Favorisca ! Come in ! '
shouted Vidal savagely. ' Stay out then,' he
concluded in a more philosophical tone, and
returned to his work.

Then the door was slowly and creaking
opened about a foot, and through the aperture
appeared the head and shoulders of a mild-looking
old gentleman with long grey hair and

spectacles. ' Oh,' said the intruder in accents
of disappointment, ' then this is not my room
after all. I was afraid it couldn't be.'

It isn't,' answered Yidal, more curtly than
courteously. His manners and his temper were
both fairly good in a general way ; but it was
rather too provoking that anyone should have
entertained a doubt as to the ownership of the
apartment after having been bawled at in four
languages.

I beg your pardon, I'm sure,' said the old
gentleman, retreating at once. Nevertheless,
he did not quite shut the door, and as Vidal,
with an imprecation, was starting up to rectify
this omission, the grey head of his tormentor
was thrust in again. ' I suppose,' began the
latter, hesitatingly, ' you couldn't oblige me by
telling me the number of my room, could
you ? '

Well, really,' returned Vidal, half laughing,
half annoyed, ' I'm afraid not. How could I,

you know ? — considering that I never set eyes
on you before.'

'No, no — to be sure,' agreed the other.
It's very awkward,' he continued, rubbing his
chin in perplexity. ' You see, I can't even
remember which storey it was on. And yet I
did make a point of noticing it, too, before I
went out.'

Hadn't you better apply to the hall porter? '
said the young man.

Dear me, yes — of course ! so I will. A
very good idea ! I am much obliged to you,
sir, for suggesting it,' cried the other, brightening
up amazingly. And without more ado he
trotted off to put it into execution.

What an original old person ! ' muttered
Yidal, as he seated himself at his table again.
Then he laughed a little, and so fell into a
good humour, which was always an easy process
with him. ' Writing be hanged ! ' said he,
shutting up his blotting-book and beginning to

whistle. ' There's no greater mistake than
writing when one is not in tune for it. It's a
waste of time and a waste of vital power ; and,
besides that, it's apt to get one into the fatal
habit of being satisfied with something less
than one's best.'

This last reflection will sufficiently show
that Mr. Yidal had as yet but small experience
of his craft. A man who can't complacently
put up with work which falls below the utmost
limit of his powers must either be a genius ora
tyro, and it is certain that Yidal was not a
genius. His was the happier lot of possessing
talents slightly above the average, keen faculties
of observation, and a mind quick to receive impressions.
It has already been said that he
was physically favoured above his fellows ; so
that it should seem as if nothing had been
lacking to make this young author a thoroughly
contented man, unless it were money — of
which, indeed, he had not quite so much as he

could have desired. Yet even this deficiency
could hardly be counted a drawback to
happiness, since he had enough for present
needs, and looked forward to making his fortune
in the pleasantness of all possible ways —
namely, by his own exertions. When it is
added that the proposed exertions were to be
employed in the composition of novels it will
be more than ever apparent how young Mr.
Vidal was.

He pushed aside his writing-table, and,
resting his elbows upon the window-sill, looked
out upon the blue lake, with its wooded promontories,
and the snowy mountains of Uri
rising cloud-capped in the distance. ' It's all
very lovely,' he murmured ; ' only one can't
enjoy it, unfortunately. Good Heavens ! what
a paradise one might make of this place if one
could but sweep away the hotels and the
steamers and the tourists at a blow ! " Every

prospect pleases, and only man is vile," as the
hjmin says.'

He lowered Ms gaze to the strip of garden
directly beneath him, and the shady promenade
on the quay, where assorted specimens of
humanity were congregated in large numbers,
happily unconscious of their vileness. The
band, with preliminary squeaks and grunts,
was tuning up for a fresh outburst ; about the
low wall which bordered the lake hung a crew
of those loungers — touts, guides, boatmen, and
others — who batten upon the modern wanderer ;
the modern wanderer himself was exhaustively
represented in every variety of garb.

That's uncommonly like Heriot's back,'
mused Yidal, his eye falling upon a rather
shabby shooting-coat among a host of others.
And then, with more animation — ' By Jove !
it is Heriot's back. What an odd chance ! '

He seized his hat, ran quickly downstairs,
and was presently in a position to deal a resounding

slap upon the back which he had
identified, and which was a somewhat round
one.

The owner of the back started and said
mildly, but with a little pardonable irritation,
Don't do that, whoever you are ; I don't like

it;

He was a man of something under middle
age, although his head and his short pointed
beard had nearly as many grey hairs as black.
His face was one of those which are only
qualified as ugly by reason of the poverty of
language, and which would have to be called
beautiful if it were permissible to define beauty
as that which is pleasant to look upon. Heriot's
face, in spite of its snub nose, high cheek-bones,
and greyish-brown complexion, was very
pleasant to look upon. Its habitual expression
was one of mingled humorousness and pathos,
which was attractive and also a little puzzling,
until you looked more closely and saw that the

pathos arose out of evident signs of physical
suffering cheerfully borne. His soft brown
eyes had an unnatural brilliancy at times, which
would of itself have sufficed to exclude him
from any chance of doing business with a life
insurance office. They lightened up now
when he turned round and recognised his
assailant.

'Adrian, of all people!' he exclaimed.
My dear boy, what on earth are you doing at
Lucerne ? '

Cursing myself for having been such a fool
as to come here,' replied the other, with a laugh.
I don't know what made me fancy it a
sequestered nook, in which one might work all
day without fear of interruption ; but that was
the extraordinary notion that I formed. Something
in the sound of the name, I suppose. It
doesn't much matter, after all. I can run up
into the mountains in a day or two, and meanwhile
I have the satisfaction of seeing you a

good month earlier than I expected. And,
by the way, what brings you here ? '

Oh, I am here for the excellent reason
that I can't travel from Marseilles to London
without a break — several breaks, in fact. I
am creeping slowly towards my native land
with the other cripples.'

And how are you, Heriot ? ' asked the
younger man, scrutinising this friend with a
shade of anxiety. 'Not any worse, I should
say, by the look of you.'

Well, no ; I am pretty much where I was.
I am not dead yet, as you see, and that is
about all that I can say for myself.'

'It seems to me that you are looking
better,' said Vidal ; for he shared the general
belief that such speeches are comforting,
whether sincere or not.

Heriot laughed ; he did not seem disposed
to dwell upon the subject. ' What about the

great work ? ' lie asked. ' Has it been given
to an expectant world yet ? '

Not yet ; but it is upon the point of
appearing ; and, to tell you the truth, I have left
England as much to escape from the condolences
of my friends as for anything else.
I feel that it will be a ghastly failure.'

Why should you be so despondent ? '
asked Heriot, smiling.

Because, when I read it over, I couldn't
help seeing what a deadly dull book it was.
It has good points — or at least I think so — but
then they are not the sort of good points that
will be at all likely to strike the general public ;
and I am afraid there isn't nearly enough of
plot. Ah, those confounded plots ! the publishers
ought to provide them for us. Why
are we to be bothered and badgered into
imagining involved combinations of circumstances
? It isn't about that kind of thing that
we want to write, nor in that kind of thing that

we hope to interest our readers. Where is the
plot in 'tristan Shandy," I should like to
know ? For my part, if a novel pleases me, I
care no more about the plot than I do about
the binding ; do you ? '

Well, if you ask me, I must confess that I
do,' answered Heriot, not caring to point out
to his friend that the possession of Sterne's
genius is a necessary condition to the employment
of Sterne's methods.

I don't believe you do, all the same,' said
the young man ; ' but, of course, theoretically
a story ought to be a story, and it is awkward
to have no answer ready to such an obvious
criticism. I feel very much as I used to do at
school after I had sent in a copy of verses
about which I had misgivings, and I seem to
see the stern critic standing over me with
sublime rod. " Now, Yidal, where's your
plot?" — " Oh, please, sir, I haven't got one ;
but I thought if I made the writing very

pretty " mind then the birch twigs whistle

through the air, and I have to assume an
ignoble posture. Let us talk about something
else.'

It is nearly time to talk about dinner,'
remarked Heriot, looking at his watch. ' I
suppose you dine at the table d'hote ? '

Oh, I suppose so.'

Then you might as well tell them to put
us together. By the way, I must introduce
you to some very old friends of mine, the
Irviness, whom I fell in with yesterday. They
are on their way back from Eome. Perhaps,'
added Heriot, with a smile, ' you might find
them — two of them at least — good subjects to
introduce into a work of fiction, though I fancy
that poor old Irvine, if you depicted him truthfully,
would be pronounced too broad a caricature.
He is a great collector of antiquities
of all kinds, especially coins ; and most likely
he could tell you the name of every emperor,
VOL. I. c

king, and consul whose image and superscription
have ever been struck ; but his powers of
memory end absolutely there. I believe that
if you were to stop him suddenly in the street
and ask him what his name was, where he lived,
where he was at that moment, and whither he
was bound, he wouldn't be able, for the life of
him, to answer a single one of your questions.'

'I fancy I have seen the old gentleman
already,' said Vidal. ' Has he long grey hair
and spectacles, and does he look as if he had
forgotten, amongst other things, to shave for
three days ? '

Heriot nodded.

Ah, then that is my friend. He marched
into my room about an hour ago, and seemed
quite hurt when I told him that it was my
room, and that I couldn't assist him towards
discovering his own. Does Mrs. Irvine share
his peculiarities ? '

No ; but she has some of her own. However,

you will soon be able to judge of her for
yourself. I don't want you to laugh at them
too much, though ; because, for all their little
oddities, they are dear good people, and they
have shown me a great deal of kindness at one
time and another. A man like myself, without
kith or kin, learns to value his friends, you
know.'

I know that you stick to your friends,
Heriot,' said the other, laying his hand upon
his companion's shoulder as they re-entered the
hotel together.

c 2

CHAPTEE II.

heriot's friends.

ViDAL spoke with some warmth, and had, indeed,
good reason for so doing. The friendship
which had subsisted for some years between
the two men, and which, in the first instance,
had been rather of the elder's than of the
younger 's seeking, was now equally strong on
both sides. It was Heriot who had discovered
Vidal's literary capabilities, and had put him in
the way of contributing those short articles to
magazines, by means of which he had first
tried his wings ; it was to Heriot that he invariably
turned in the moments of despondency
and self-distrust to which his temperament
made him liable ; and, finally, it was Heriot

who had once got him out of a scrape which,
absurd as it seemed when looked back upon
from the heights of mature experience, might
easily have had a lamentable conclusion.

That a boy of eighteen should fall in love
with his mother's maid is a circumstance not,
perhaps, highly creditable to the boy's taste or
intelligence, yet one which can hardly be called
unprecedented. If, in Adrian's case, the maid
had escaped without a slur upon her character,
this happy result was probably due less to
Susan's rigid virtue than to her vaulting ambition.
For, being a young woman endowed
not only with beauty of person but with exceptional
strength of purpose, she had made up
her mind to nothing less than that her mistress's
son should marry her, and had actually extorted
from him something like a promise to
that effect. And so, when he got the better of
his fancy and sought safety in flight, she left
sirs. Yidal's service at a moment's notice and

followed her faithless swain to London, where
there is every reason to believe that she would
have achieved her end, had not Heriot been
informed of the state of affairs and hastened to
the rescue. By what means he contrived to
shake off the tenacious Susan, Vidal never knew
precisely. His own view was that he was
bound in honour, if not to ruin his whole life,
at least to provide as handsomely as his means
would allow for the girl whom he had deceived.
But Heriot, foreseeing the perils to which payment
of black-mail must inevitably lead, had
refused to hear of any such thing ; and this,
perhaps, was not the least of the services which
he had rendered to his young friend. The
woman had gone away at last, uttering threats
of vengeance which had never been carried
into execution, and the episode had long ceased
to be referred to between the two men ; but
Vidal had not forgotten it, nor was he the less
grateful to his preserver because of the easy

and matter-of-course way in which his preservation
had been effected.

Heriot, old for his years, disenchanted with
life so far as he himself was concerned, and
suffering from a disease which at times gave
him horrible pain, and might at any moment
kill him, had learnt, as many people do under
such circumstances, to find his share of the
excitement of existence in the joys and hopes
and ambitions of others. It was not unnatural
that he should have felt specially drawn towards
a young fellow who, like Adrian Yidal, possessed
exactly the blessings which had been
denied to himself — strength, beauty, enthusiasm,
and just a touch of that harmless vanity which
a worn-out man so readily pardons, and almost
loves, in his juniors. Yidal, on his side, had
an affection for Heriot which was half filial,
half fraternal. He knew that his friend was
intellectually and morally his superior ; but he
knew also that in any perplexity or trouble he

could turn to him with absolute confidence, not
only in his judgment but in his sympathy ; and
he well understood that a friend of that stamp
is not met with twice in a lifetime. Therefore,
as he had an instinctive abhorrence of pain, he
pretty generally contrived to put away from
him the thought that Heriot's days were numbered
; and it was only when, as now, a separation
of some months made the slow change for
the worse perceptible, that he felt that sudden
tightening of the heart-strings with which most
of us have reason to be familiar.

While he was washing his hands and brushing
his hair before dinner, he did not whistle,
as was his wont, and his glass reflected a grave
countenance. ' Egypt hasn't done him a bit of
good, poor old chap ! ' he muttered. ' I suppose
nothing will ever do him good any more.
And yet, so long as he doesn't get worse . . .
How many years is it since those solemn asses
of doctors condemned him to death ? Two, or

more, I think. After all, pluck is the best
doctor, and he has plenty of that.'

Fastening upon this ground for hope, in the
absence of a better one, Yidal soon gained the
comfort from it which he desired, and went
cheerfully downstairs to dinner. He was a
little late. The great table-d'hote room was
already full to overflowing ; the assembled
company of all nations was devouring its food,
and growing over it after the manner of all
carnivora when freed from social restrictions;
waiters in an unpleasant state of warmth were
hurrying to and fro, bearing pyramids of plates ;
and through the open windows were wafted
the strains of the untiring band. Presently
Vidal made out Heriot beckoning to him from
the far end of one of the long tables, at the
head of which sat the old gentleman of defective
memory who had so irritated him an hour
before.

We have kept a place for you,' Heriot

said. ' Let me introduce you to Mrs. Irvine —
and Mr. Irvine, who know you very well byname.'


The old gentleman started out of a placid
dream, and bowed pleasantly to the new-comer,
without, apparently, the smallest recollection of
their previous meeting ; but Mrs. Irvine held
out her hand, and said, with frank heartiness,
'How do you do? So glad to meet you. We
have very often heard of you from Mr. Heriot.'

Mrs. Irvine's appearance suggested the idea
that she had just arrived from the railway
station, and that she had sat beside the window
during her journey. She wore a bonnet and a
long dust-cloak, which last was flung back from
her shoulders, and her grey hair looked as
though she had omitted to brush it after
having been out in a gale of wind. There was
no ostensible reason for her being in a hurry ;
yet she both spoke and ate as if there were no
time to be lost. ' And where have bijou come

from, Mr. Viclal? From London ? I thought
everybody was going to London, not coming
away from it, at this time of year. We have
been spending the winter in Eome, and have
enjoyed ourselves beyond everything — at least, .
my daughter and I have. I am not quite so
sure about Mr. Irvine, who dislikes travelling.
Still he really was interested — I was saying
that you were interested in Eome, John.'

'Eh? Oh, immensely interested,' answered
Mr. Irvine. ' I don't know whether you are

familiar with Eome, Mr. — er I beg your

pardon, but I didn't quite catch your name.'
Vidal was spared the disagreeable duty of
re-introducing himself by Mrs. Irvine, whose
volubility drowned her husband's half-finished
sentence. ' He liked it very much when he
got there, as I always told him he would ; and
he spent a great deal of his time at Castellani's ;
besides which there are all sorts of collections,
you know, in Eome, for those who like collections.

What I myself enjoy most of all is
seeing the people — not, of course, that one
doesn't fully appreciate the scenery and the
pictures and the ruins ; but I must say I am
fond of society, especially of the sort of society
that one gets abroad — such a complete change,
you know. One makes some really delightful
acquaintances, and others which, perhaps, one
wouldn't care to keep \}c^ at home; but that
only renders them the more entertaining for
the time being. I like to see all kinds of
people and things ; don't you, Mr. Yidal ?
But I am sure you must, because you would
naturally be always seeking for material for
those charming books of yours.'

A momentary pause, occasioned by the
speaker's having hastily swallowed a glass of
wine the wrong way, enabled Yidal to observe
that his books would doubtless be charming if
he had published any, but that he hadn't.

Mrs. Irvine was not disconcerted. ' You

write, though,' she persisted. 'I am certain
that Mr. Heriot told me you wrote. And after
all, I often think it must be a great deal more
difficult to compose clever essays and articles
and — and all that sort of thing than novels,
which can't require any very vast amount of
talent, since such numbers of people produce
them. Once I began a novel myself, but I
have never found time to go on with it. Oh,
and, by the-bye, I wonder whether you could
help me to find a situation as governess for a
very charming Italian lady who is at present
just keeping body and soul together by writing
for the newspapers, and who was at one time
on the stage, and is altogether most accomplished
and agreeable. Embroiders quite
exquisitely, too, and makes all her own dresses,
which I think is so creditable to her, poor
thing ! I feel sure that she would be a delightful
addition to any household — not, of course,
to your own ; only you might just mention her

to your friends, and I should be too happy to
answer any inquiries. Mrs. Irvine, Andrew,
near Polruth, Cornwall ; telegrams to Polruth
station. — Mr. Heriot, do you know 'of anyone
who wants a thorough finishing governess ? '

Who has been on the stage, embroiders
beautifully, writes for the newspapers, and
makes her own frocks? No,' answered Heriot
thoughtfully, ' I can't call to mind anyone at
the present moment ; but with such qualifications
there ought to be no difficulty at all
about placing her. What of your last protege,
Mrs. Irvine ? — the lady's-maid who had
been a nun and was compelled to leave her
convent through conviction of the errors of
Romanism.'

Mrs. Irvine made a gesture of despair.
Don't speak of her ! ' She bent across the
table and continued in an impressive whisper,
It was the most unfortunate thing ! Do you
know, I did get her a situation — and an

excellent one — with an old lady ; and though,
naturally, she was a little inexperienced, all
went well for three or four months, when she
began to fail in health, and — well, I can't
finish, but I dare say you can guess what
happened. Anything more shocking I never
heard of ; and the old lady was so very angry
with me, and said I ought to have known.
But, as I told her, how could I know ? And
I am afraid she can never have been a nun at
all.'

Let us hope not,' said Heriot. ' And how
have things been going on at Polruth during
your absence ? '

'Pretty well, on the whole. But there
have been some unfortunate occurrences ; and
only this morning Mr. Irvine had a letter
telling him of a positive disaster. It seems
that the Mevagissey men have been fishing in
Polruth Bay, which of course they have no sort
of business to do. So the Polruth men went

ADRIAN VIDAL

out in the middle of the night and cut all the
nets adrift, and it wasn't until the morning that
they found they had cut away their own nets
by mistake. You may imagine what distress
this has caused in the place ; and what is to be
done I can't think, unless I can induce Lord
St. Austell to subscribe liberally, which, as you
know, will not be an easy matter. However, I
must do my best as soon as I get home.'

In this way Yidal was relieved of the functions
of a listener, which, to be sure, he had
been fulfilling but indifferently from the outset.
For he had not been two minutes in the room
before the best part of his attention had
become concentrated upon a girl of remarkable
beauty who was seated opposite to him, and on
Heriot's right hand. He had not at first
supposed her to be in any way connected with
his new acquaintances, but his neighbour's
casual reference to her daughter and Heriot's
evident intimacy with the young lady had

seemed to point pretty conclusively to the
inference that she must be Miss Irvine, though
how such parents had come to possess such a
child was one of those mysteries with which
Nature delights to baffle the evolutionist.

Miss Irvine personified the type of beauty
claimed by our island as peculiarly its own.
Tall, graceful, with a flawless complexion, and
a small head, well set on her shoulders, she
had the look of breeding which characterises
that type in its highest stage of development.
Her hair had in it, besides a touch of gold,
several shades of brown, the darkest of these
gradations being reproduced in her eyebrows
and eyelashes, which last were long and
curved. Her eyes also were of uncertain
colour, varying from dark blue to light grey,
according as the lights fell or her mood
influenced her. In a physical sense, therefore,
she had been more than generously treated by
Fortune : it remained to be seen what inner

VOL. I D

charms might correspond with or contradict
this outer perfection ; and that was not to be
determined by a cursory survey. So, at least,
Vidal concluded, after studying the girl carefully
for a matter of ten minutes. At the end
of that time he had discovered that she was of
a somewhat dreamy and romantic temperament,
that she was totally free from self-consciousness,
and that she had a sweet temper,
together with rather more pride than was
desirable for her own happiness or for the
happiness of those nearest to her.

This, to be sure, was a good deal to have
found out by merely watching the play of a
person's features during so brief a space ; but
Vidal prided himself upon his ability to read
character, and only wondered that his investigations
should have led him to no more definite
judgment than the above. One other discovery
he had made — namely, that he was beginning
to fall a little in love with the fair subject of

his analysis ; but this did not disturb him so
much as it might be supposed to do by persons
who attach a more serious meaning to the
phrase than he did. In fact, it did not disturb
him at all. His was a susceptible nature, and
he was in the habit of falling a little in love
with most of the pretty faces that came within
his ken. No one was any the worse for these
passing fancies, which he was rather disposed
to cultivate, having an impression that they
exercised a refining and elevating influence
upon him.

During the progress of dinner it happened
that his eyes more than once met those of his
opposite neighbour, and he could not help
perceiving that she regarded him with a
certain degree of interest and curiosity. That
being so, it became a matter of imperative
necessity that he should exchange a few observations
with her -. only he hesitated to break

D 2

the ice without that preliminary formula which
is so essential to the comfort of Englishmen.
I wonder why Heriot didn't introduce me ? ' he
mused. ' I'll get him to do it directly afterwards


CHAPTEE m.

AFTER Dinner.

As it turned out, there was no need for the
ceremony which Vidal had made up his mind
to solicit. When the table-d'hote was at an
end, the greater part of the assemblage, including
those ^\e members of it with whom
we have to do, trooped out to the colonnade
in front of the hotel to listen to the band ; and
so Yidal presently found himself seated beside
Miss Irvine, who at once addressed him.
What she said is hardly worth recording. The
range of subjects upon which it is possible to
open conversation with a total stranger does
not afford much scope for originality, nor was
Miss Irvine ambitious of achieving small effects.

But Vidal was as miicli delighted with her
natural ease of manner as with the soft contralto
tones of her voice. For the present, he was
quite content to exchange commonplaces with
her, to establish the fact that she and he sympathised
upon a variety of unimportant points,
and to leave the question of a possible closer
relation between them to the dim future.
Nevertheless, his interest in his companion had
so far deepened at the expiration of a quarter
of an hour that it was with some considerable
inward anxiety that he asked her whether she
would be likely to remain a few days at
Lucerne.

Mrs. Irvine, who had arrived at an hiatus in
her colloquy with Heriot, answered the question.
Well, now, we must really talk this over,' she
said, bending forward, with her elbows on her
knees. ' We ought to do the place properly,
now that we are here. Let me see — there's
the Lion, and the bridge with the Dance of

Death, and the organ at the Cathedral : a few
hours would exhaust the town, I should say.
But then the Eigi railway — and perhaps
Pilatus — and oughtn't we to go round the lake
in a steamer ? What do you think, Clare ? Is
it worth while to stay a day or two ? '

I don't think I care very much, one way
or the other,' answered Miss Irvine, rather disappointingly,
after a brief consideration of the
matter.

It would be a positive sin to leave the
place without having been round the lake,'
struck in Yidal eagerly. ' You ought to devote
three days, at the very least, to Lucerne.
Could we not make up a party and see what
there is to be seen ? For my part, I should
never forgive myself if I went away without
having studied the Eigi railway. Now, don't
you agree with me, Heriot .^ '

I am afraid,' said Heriot, ' that I am rather
inclined to agree with Miss Irvine ; I don't care

much, one way or the other. Still, I am quite
ready to do what everybody else wishes.'

Neither his words nor his tone were quite
as amiable as usual, and Vidal wondered why.
If Heriot had not been Heriot, it would almost
have looked as though the green-eyed monster
were at work. But, for more reasons than
one, that surmise was inadmissible, and presently
it seemed to strike the last speaker that
he had been wanting in cordiality, for he added
briskly, ' Of course I should enjoy having a day
or two with you, Adrian ; and though I have
seen the Lake of Lucerne before, other people
haven't. I suppose there is no need for you
to hurry home, is there, Mrs. L:vine ? '

Well, no doubt they would be able to get
on without me for a few days longer,' replied
that lady, making the admission a trifle unwillingly.
'There are heaps of things that I
must see about as soon as I get back ; but after
all, two days is only forty-eight hours— or

indeed one may say only about sixteen, making
deductions for sleeping and eating. Suppose
we put it to the vote. Mr. Yidal is in favour
of our remaining ; Clare and Mr. Heriot are
indifferent ; so that unless I vote with the ayes
we shall get no decision. Very well, then we
will consider the motion carried.'

It did not appear to have occurred to anybody
to inquire the opinion of Mr. Irvine, who
had drifted away aimlessly into the darkness
some time before, and had not reappeared. Ina
few minutes the ladies withdrew, and no
sooner were they out of earshot than Yidal
broke forth into impetuous praises of Miss
Irvine's beauty.

My dear Heriot, why didn't you mention
her when you were talking about them before
dinner ? She is far and away the most exquisite
creature I ever beheld ! '

Yes, she is a beautiful girl,' said Heriot,
rather drily.

And as good as she is beautiful, I am
sure.'

Oh, well, that would be saying a great
deal, wouldn't it ? To the best of my belief,
she is neither better nor worse than the
generality of young ladies who have not been
very long out of the schoolroom. No ; that
is not quite true : she is better than the
generality in some respects ; for there is a
freshness and innocency about her which '

Well ? ' asked Vidal ; for Heriot had come
to a full stop.

Which, in the nature of things, can't last
much longer — m ore's the pity. If I were you,
Adrian, I wouldn't flirt with her. She doesn't
understand the game yet, and why should you
be the one to teach it to her ? '

Now Yidal had a theory, founded upon
experience, that the game of flirtation is one in
which no woman, however young, stands in
need of an instructor. He did not, however,
even inwardly, seek to apply it in the present

instance, but contented himself with an energetic
disclaimer of the intention attributed to
him.

Surely,' he exclaimed, ' I may be permitted
to admire respectfully what no man with eyes
in his head could help admiring ! And really
I don't know why you should take it for
granted that Miss Irvine would condescend to
flirt with me if I wished her to do so. But I
don't wish anything of the kind.'

Heriot smiled. He was quite conscious of
the absurdity of his appeal, but he had not
found himself able to resist making it. ' How
long are you going to be in Switzerland .? ' he
asked, with an abrupt change of subject.

Well, I thought about a month ; but I
may stay longer if I find solitude conducive to
work. You see, Heriot, I don't quite know
yet whether it is in me to write a good novel,
and I want to make sure and to give myself
every chance. I didn't do my utmost with
that last book ; I doubt whether I should do

my utmost with this one if I were in London,
Table to constant interruptions. It is true that
the brain is apt to grow sluggish when one has
no company to keep one alive ; but whether
that disadvantage isn't partly compensated forby

'

I beg your pardon,' broke in a deprecating
voice, 'but can you tell me whether this is
the principal inn of the place ? I have lost my
way, and cannot at this moment recall the
name of my hotel. The Soldiers — or
Shoulders — or '

Try Schweizerhof,' suggested Heriot.
Your instinct has led you to the right place,
Mr. Irvine ; and I shall be delighted to show
you the way up to your room.'

Perhaps he was not altogether sorry to
escape the end of a dissertation to which not
even the most devoted of friends could be
expected to listen without some degree of
boredom.

CHAPTEE lY.

MISS IRVINE.

When Yidal woke on the following morning
the sunshine was streaming into his room.
Lucerne had been up and about for hours.
The church bells were ringing ; the steamers
were blowing their hoarse whistles ; from the
quay without came guttural shouts, and from
the corridors within the tramp of departing
travellers and the banging of heavy trunks.
But Yidal no longer anathematised this unending
turmoil. On the contrary, so completely
was this young man's judgment at the mercy
of a mood that he actually found something
cheerful and exhilarating in the signs of surrounding
life and movement that were thus

borne to him ; and so far from stigmatising his
fellow-tourists as ' vile,' would, upon the
slightest provocation, have been quite willing
to shake hands with them all round.

He got up and threw open his window.
The deep blue lake was like a mirror in some
places, and flecked with passing breezes in
others ; nearer to the shore every wavelet was
a flashing diamond; the sky overhead was
unclouded ;^ but up the sides of the distant
mountains light mists were curling and vanishing.
Evidently there was going to be glorious
weather, and Yidal, being in such good
humour, determined that, as a reward for
having worked so hard of late, he should have
two whole days of idleness and enjoyment — or,
upon Mrs. Irvine's calculation, sixteen hours,
making deductions for food and sleep. Perhaps,
even, it would not be necessary to subtract
so long a time ; since meals are not generally
eaten in solitude, and many people like

to sit up late when the nights are fine and the
moon at the fill.

All this only shows with what alarming
rapidity a susceptible man will jump to conclusions
; for assuredly it was neither by himself,
nor with Heriot, nor even with Mrs. Irvine,
that our young friend looked forward to contemplating
the moon. He dressed after a
leisurely, dawdling fashion, pausing every now
and again to lean out of the window and look
down upon the clipped horse-chestnut alley
beneath, and upon the passers-by. And so it
befell that, during one of these pauses, he
became aware of a lady seated upon the low
wall beside the lake. This lady wore a dress
of white serge, and was sitting sideways, in
such a manner as to display one of the neatest
boots that ever gladdened the eyes of an appreciative
spectator. Unfortunately, she carried
a large sunshade, which concealed the upper
part of her person ; but, although Yidal had

never seen the dress before in his life, and
could not have sworn to the boot, he felt no
doubt at all as to the identity of the wearer.
He remained watching her patiently until a
change of posture caused her to raise her sunshade
for a moment, and revealed the head of
Miss Irvine, surmounted by one of those straw
sailor hats which are becoming even to plain
women, and, when worn by pretty ones, are
simply irresistible.

After that glimpse there was clearly only
one thing to be done. Vidal performed the
remainder of his toilet with the utmost despatch,
and was upon the point of running downstairs
and crossing the road, when he was arrested by a
most unpleasing spectacle. Taking a last glance
out of the window, he perceived that Miss
Irvine had altered her position. She now had
her back turned towards him, and was leaning
over the wall ; while beside her, in a similar
attitude, was a tall individual, whose get-up.

as far as could be discerned, was that of a
modern young Englishman of fashion.

So much for childlike innocence and
ignorance of the wicked ways of men ! ' was
Yidal's hasty and unjust comment upon what
he saw. ' I might have known that young-ladies
don't get up at eight o'clock in the
morning for nothing.'

So he threw himself down in his arm-chair,
and decided that he wouldn't take a hoHday
after all. What! make one of a party to
circumnavigate that weary lake and talk to a
tedious old woman, while the daughter was
amusing herself with her long-legged admirer ?
Hardly ! No ; he would go for a long walk
into the country all by himself, and cease to
trouble his head about people whom he was
most unlikely ever to meet again. But it was
not in Yidal's nature to sit and sulk in a corner
long, and after a time he began to see that he
was behaving very foolishly. Was it to be

VOL. I. E

supposed that Miss Irvine could have reached
her present age (she looked about twenty)
without having had a single admirer? And
because she allowed her admirers to speak to
her, did it follow that she reciprocated their
admiration or made appointments with them ?
Again, why should not the gentleman with the
long legs be her brother or her cousin?
Finally, what the deuce did it matter to him —
Vidal — who or what the fellow might be ?

Having reached the conclusion that it didn't
matter in the least, he went downstairs and
sauntered across the road to the horse-chestnut
alley, beneath which Miss Irvine and the unknown
were still standing. Of course it would
never do to interrupt their conversation ; but
Vidal thought he would just walk slowly past,
and she could see him or not, as she pleased.

He duly executed this manoeuvre, with the
result that Miss Irvine not only saw him, but
was evidently pleased into the bargain. She

smiled, nodded, and when the young man made
as though he would have passed on, stopped
him with a gesture.

Are you taking an early constitutional ? '
she asked. It struck Vidal that she was rather
anxious for the company of a third person.

Her interlocutor, it appeared, did not share
this anxiety. ' Well, good-bye. Miss Irvine,'
he said. 'I hope we may meet in England
before long ; and if not — well, perhaps you
will let me hear from you.'

He was a broad-shouldered, fresh-complexion
man of five or six and thirty, with a
loud, but not disagreeable voice. Miss Irvine
shook hands with him, but made no audible
reply, and he strode over to the hotel without
bestowing a glance upon the new-comer, who,
on the other hand, had carefully taken stock of
him.

Is it not a perfect morning ? ' IVIiss Irvine
began. 'Have you breakfasted yet? and are

E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

you going to do anything particular to-day ?
My mother has gone off to inspect the bridges ;
but she told me that if I saw you or Mr. Heriot,
I was to let you know that we think of starting
at twelve o'clock to make the tour of the lake.
She hoped you might be inclined to come with
us.'

There was a certain hurry and nervousness
in the girl's manner which Yidal did not fail to
notice ; but he had been too much pleased at
hearing of the stranger's imminent departure
for England to care whether he was or was nota
suitor for Miss Irvine's hand.

I should enjoy it of all things,' he answered
heartily ; ' and I am sure Heriot will like to
come.' He added, with a disingenuousness of
which he ought to have been ashamed, ' The
face of your friend who was here just now
seems to be familiar to me — and yet I am not
sure. His name isn't — isn't Parker, is it ? '

•No,' answered Miss Irvine calmly; 'his

name isn't Parker.' She had raised her eyes,
with just the faintest shade of surprise in them,
to those of her questioner. She did not exhibit
any of the embarrassment which he had half
expected, and he felt that it was he who was
looking rather foolish.

Oh ! ' he murmured confusedly : ' T — T
thought perhaps it was.'

He is a Mr. Wilbraham, whom we met
last winter,' Miss Irvine said. ' Do you know
him ? '

No ; I must have been mistaken. One
person is so like another.'

So papa always says ; and perhaps, now
that you mention it, Mr. Wilbraham's is rather
a common type of face. Would you care to
walk as far as the bridge with me ? I think
I had better go and find my mother.'

Vidal made use of no conventional figure of
speech when he replied that he should be delighted.
Nothing, indeed, could have been

more delightful to him than Miss Irvine's
society ; and the matter-of-course way in which
she offered it convinced him that his first impression
of her had been correct, and that her
beauty was equalled only by her simplicity.

I am so glad that we are going to stay a
day or two here she said, after they had
proceeded a few yards on their way. ' I suppose
we should have been starting now, if we
had made up our minds to go straight home.
How horrid it would have been ! '

You said last night that you didn't care
whether you stayed or not,' remarked Vidal.

She laughed. ' Well, I couldn't tell that
it was going to be such a fine day. Besides, all
sorts of things may happen to prevent one from
enjoying an excursion. Tiresome people may
turn up, for instance ; and there is no possibility
of escape from them on board a steamer.'

This was most satisfactory. ' Tiresome
people ' obviously meant Mr. Wilbraham ; and

since it seemed to be implied that lie had turned
up unexpectedly, there was no occasion to
harbour any further feeling of malice against
the poor man. Vidal's spirits, which had
hitherto been a trifle depressed, now fully recovered
their tone ; and if his companion did
not find him clever and amusing, she must have
been singularly insensible to qualities which
had made this fortunate fellow a general
favourite, from his boyhood up.

So these two passed on through sunlight
and shade till they reached the old covered
bridge, where Mrs. Irvine, with ' Murray ' in
her hands and her chin in the air, was laboriously
examining the quaint triangular paintings
overhead, and endeavouring to decipher the
crabbed German characters of the legend which
each scene bore, inscribed beneath it.

Oh, here you are at last, Clare ! ' she
exclaimed. ' And you have brought Mr. Vidal
with you, which is such a comfort, because I

am sure he understands German better than I
do. — Now, Mr. Yidal, will you explain this tome
? It is most interesting, and Murray gives
one no sort of help. " Scenes relating to the
history of the town," he says, or something of
that kind. Just enough to excite one's curiosity
without gratifying it, you know.'

Well, Mrs. Irvine,' answered Vidal, with
great presence of mind, ' the fact is that some
of the subjects are not quite — that is, it is better
not to inquire into them too closely.'

Good gracious me, you don't say so ! ' exclaimed
the good lady. ' I should never have
supposed that from the look of them. — Clare,
we had better seek out your father and keep
him until the boat starts, or he will be sure to
wander off somewhere and lose himself. Never
mind the pictures : they have no artistic merit
not a bit worth looking at.'

With that she bustled away, carrying off
her daughter, who, indeed, had not been looking

at the pictures, but at the rushing blue-green
waters of the Eeuss beneath ; and so Vidal got
home to breakfast.

The prospect of spending six or seven consecutive
hours on board a lake steamer in company
which demands a more or less incessant
flow of conversation is one from which the
generality of mankind may vrell shrink appalled.
Silence is the prerogative of intimacy; to
acquaintances of recent date you are bound to
go on talking ; and unless you are blessed with
an exceptionally fertile brain, the result is but
too certain. Economise your stock of subjects
as you may, it must needs run dry at last ; you
search in vain for fresh ones ; then a numbing
sense of lassitude steals over you, and finally
comes the inevitable moment when Nature
asserts herself, and you yawn undisguisedly in
the face of your neighbour, whose jaws fly open
in ready sympathy. But there are certain
persons who are strangers to such dismal experiences,

and Adrian Yidal was one of them.
Solitude often bored him ; society scarcely ever.
He took a real interest, not only in humanity at
large, but in almost every individual whom he
encountered ; whence, no doubt, arose his great
popularity. Like About ben Ahem, he might
have cried, ' Write me as one who loves his
fellow-men ; ' and the just system of reciprocity
which prevails in all human affairs caused him
to be beloved by them in return.

Therefore, neither he nor the lady to whom
he devoted himself through the greater part of
that spring day found the time long or wished
for a change of partners. Miss Irvine, it is
true, was not very difficult to get on with ; for
she was predisposed in favour of the young
author, to whom, shortly after the boat had
left the quay, she began to speak of those
literary ambitions which he might reasonably
be supposed to cherish. She had not her
mother's unflattering vagueness of impression

as to Yidal's past achievements ; she was well
aware that he had as yet produced no book,
charming or otherwise ; but Heriot had shown
her some of his articles, and these she had read
with the reverence and admiration for printed
matter which belongs to youth.

Do you know,' she said, ' you are the first
author I have ever met ? I think if I were a
man, I would rather be an author than anything
else.'

But it is not necessary to be a man in
order to be an author,' remarked Vidal ; ' and
I am afraid if the truth were known, most men
are only authors — at least, novelists — because
they can't be anything else.'

I don't think you can mean that,' said
Miss Irvine — and in fact it is probable that he
did not. ' You surely would not place Dickens
or Thackeray below a successful doctor or
lawyer ? '

No ; but perhaps the rank and file of our

calling are rather below the rank and file of
others. At all events, that is the common
opinion. We are a discredited class, because
the immense appetite for fiction causes
hundreds of novels to pay their way which
have no business to pay their way. Novel-writing
is like every other art : it looks so easy
and it is so difficult ! Only in other arts the
failure is more apparent and more decisive ;
so that those who have mistaken their vocation
find it out sooner.'

'1 suppose the great thing is to be very
much in earnest over it,' said the girl thoughtfully.


Exactly ; that is the one indispensable
condition. Art won't accept a divided allegiance.
You must give yourself up to her wholly
and entirely, or she will never allow you a
chance of conquering her.'

'Do you think art the only thing worth
living for, then ? '

Mr. Vidal was not prepared to go quite sofar
as that. He explained that he had been
speaking only of a temporary self-surrender,
and that he was well aware that life contained
possibilities of happiness such as art could
never bestow. But it would be hardly fair
upon him to record any more of the sentiments
to which he gave utterance upon this occasion.
When a man is falling more and more deeply in
love every minute, he must needs say things
which would sound supremely ridiculous to an
eavesdropper ; and if Vidal was a little high-flown
in his talk, it must be admitted that he
met nth a good deal of encouragement. Miss
Irvine evidently did not find him ridiculous.
She ignored his occasional lapses into sentimentality,
but seemed willing to admit him to
terms of confidential intimacy. She questioned
him upon the subject of his family, and told him
about her own home in Cornwall, and her six
brothers, and the difficulty that there had been in

providing that stalwart half-dozen with education
and a start in life. ' For we are not particularly
well off,' she added simply.

Meanwhile, Mrs. Irvine harangued the
patient Heriot ; and Mr. Irvine dozed in the
shade; and the steamer pursued its zigzag
course, crossing and recrossing the lake, passing
beneath wooded cliffs, and stopping at villages
where cattle were taken on board or disembarked,
and where the huge hotels and
pensions were as yet untenanted ; until at last
Fluelen was reached, and Vidal and Miss Irvine
exclaimed, ' Already ! ' in one breath.

Fluelen does not offer many attractions to
the casual visitor ; but Vidal long preserved,
and perhaps still preserves, a grateful memory
of the place. For the hour which had to be
spent there before the steamer started on its
return voyage proved one of the pleasantness
that had fallen to his lot in a life composed
largely of pleasant hours. Mr. Irvine expressed

his intention of drinking a cup of tea quietly at
the inn ; and his wife, after consulting Murray,
found that she could keep him company without
neglecting her duty. ' If you want to walk
about, Clare,' she said, ' I dare say Mr. Heriot
or Mr. Vidal will be kind enough to look after
you.'

To this appeal Heriot did not see fit to
make any response ; and thus the conversation
which had begun on board the steamer was
continued with even less danger of interruption.
By this time Vidal's subjugation was an accomplished
fact, and he knew it and gloried in it.
In Miss Irvine he saw, not merely a girl of
singular beauty and charm of manner, but far
more than that — nothing less, indeed, than the
Ideal Woman. He recognised in her the embodiment
of all the virtues which are supposed
to be especially feminine — purity of mind,
charity, sympathy with the afflicted, devotion
to her family. It must be confessed that she

obtained this recognition upon tolerably easy
terms, and that Vidal was satisfied to draw
inferences where people of more mature years
might have demanded tangible proofs ; but
perhaps in this he did not differ greatly from
other lovers ; nor was it very wonderful that
such simple things as a few kind words spoken
to a cripple, and some coppers bestowed upon
a beggar at the church door, should have served
him as a foot upon which to mould a Hercules.
Moreover, as it happened, he was not very far
wrong in his inductions, and if he could have
made inquiries down in Cornwall he would
have heard from many mouths a description of
Clare Irvine enthusiastic enough to have fulfilled
even his high expectations. That there
might be nothing wanting in her, she had a
touch of melancholy in her manner at times,
and a dreamy look in her eyes, which seemed
to suggest unsatisfied yearnings. It would not
have been consonant with Vidal's conception of

her that she should have been altogether happy,
although he had not yet quite reached the
length of picturing himself as the one thing
lacking to give her life completeness.

After they had wandered through the
streets of the little town into the country beyond,
and when the bell of the steamer had
warned them that it was time to retrace their
steps, she asked Yidal to gather a handful of
wild crocuses for her ; whereupon he begged for
one of the flowers for himself. ' I should like
to have some memento of to-day,' he said.

The girl glanced at him for a moment with
a grave and rather startled look, and then
laughed, as if not wishing to make too much of
a trifle. ' Yes, it has been a very pleasant day,'
she answered, but did not give him the flower.

He was rather sorry that he had committed
the indiscretion of asking for it when he perceived
the effect produced by his request ; for
after that she became perceptibly less communal.

I. F

native, and contrived so to arrange matters
that he had to listen to M's. Irvine's descriptions
of Woman society the whole way back to
Lucerne. Disappointing as this was, Vidal
submitted to his fate with resignation and good
humour ; and perhaps it was just as well for
him that he did so. Talking him over later in
the evening, with Heriot, Mrs. Irvine pronounced
him to be one of the most delightful
and intelligent young men she had ever met
adding that she had a very great mind tc
prolong their sojourn at Lucerne by another
day, as he had entreated her to do.

Heriot looked a little doubtful, and said,
'Well, if you think it would be wise' — but
as Mrs. Irvine did not understand him, and ashe
hardly liked to be more explicit, the extra
day was granted, and an excursion to the Lake
of Zug added several more hours of sunshine
and bliss to the credit side of Yidal's account
with time.

But on the third day, unhappily, the sunshine
vanished. The mountains were shrouded
in woolly clouds ; across the grey lake showers
came sweeping at intervals, and only one of
the party had the hardihood to assert that it
would be worth while to go up the Eigi in
such weather,

You see,' Yidal said, '• it isn't for the sake
of the mountain, which is a cockneyfied sort of
place at the best of times ; and the view — well,
of course there are people who admire a panoramic
view, but I really don't think we need
regret the loss of that very much. What I am
sure that you would regret most deeply, Mi's.
Irvine, would be to have missed seeing the
railway. Gradients of one in four — just think
of that ! '

Can't we sit still and revel in the thought
of a gradient of one in foi* without getting
wet through ? ' suggested Heriot.

'My dear fellow, it's one of those things

p2

that must be seen to be realised. Besides, the
railway carriages are covered.'

Mrs. Irvine showed signs of wavering.
The worst of it is that one is sure to meet
such heaps of friends who have done it, and
who will pretend that it was the most exciting
experience of their lives,' she murmured.

Exactly so,' said Vidal ; ' and after all,
the only alternative is to stay indoors all day.
For my part, I shouldn't be at all surprised if
it were to clear up in the afternoon.'

His representations were strengthened by
a timely break in the clouds, and also — somewhat
unexpectedly — by Mr. Irvine, whose soul
was thirsting after an illuminated missal which
he had unearthed in a curiosity shop, and who
wished to be removed from temptation. The
consequence was that, although the weather
became worse instead of improving, the
strongest will carried the day, and five travellers
in mackintoshes and waterproofs disembarked

at Weggis that afternoon. All that
Heriot had been able to obtain, by way of
compromise, was that, since there could be
nothing whatever to be gained by ascending
to the top of the mountain, they should content
themselves with going as far as Kaltbad and
returning by the next train. Thus, he said,
they might hope to accomplish their purpose
with a minimum of misery.

As for Yidal, he saw no question of misery
in the matter. It is true that he did not derive
any particular satisfaction from standing under
the dripping awning of the steamer, nor even
from the curious sensation of being dragged ina
railway carriage up an incline steeper than
the steepest of high roads ; but what he thought
was that, when once they had reached their
destination. Miss Irvine might perhaps be disposed
to take a short walk, upon the chance of
catching a glimpse of view through the clouds,
and he insisted a great deal upon the probability

that at a certain height the rain would
be replaced by mist.

Both of these expectations were justified
by the event. At Kaltbad, where there is a
gigantic hotel, empty in the month of May, but
crowded later in the season, nothing worse was
encountered than a nipping cold air and a
dense white fog ; and when the three elders
had grouped themselves round the stove, expressing
their unalterable determination not to
move thence until the train should come to
take them down, it required but a very little
exercise of diplomacy to carry out the remainder
of the programme.

CHAPTEE Y.

IN THE CLOUDS.

All sorts of extravagant ideas passed through
Vidal's head as he walked along the mountain
side with the girl whom he loved, and whom he
had known for barely three days. Every now
and again the mist wreaths parted, showing them
some sombre peak towering high overhead, ora
gleam of grey water from beneath ; then
they were wrapped once more in a sort of
white darkness, through which they could
hardly distinguish one another's forms. They
seemed so completely alone, so separated from
the world and all its conventionalities, that
Vidal, upon whom external conditions always
possessed a strong influence, felt as if there

would be nothing very strange in speaking his
heart out and saying, ' I love you.'

But, underlying the impetuosity of his
nature, there was ever a vein of common sense,
which had preserved him from the commission
of many absurdities before then, and he
had more reasons than one for knowing that
the utterance of those three words must be
preceded by a considerable period of reflection.
Therefore he did no more than repeat them
many times inwardly, and only said aloud,
So you are really going away tomorrow ! '

Yes,' answered the girl, with something
like a sigh. ' I am sorry. It is as if we had
come to the end of the holidays, though weare
going home.'

It is something to have a home to go to
when holiday-time is over,' remarked Vidal.

'And have you no homes Oh no, I remember
you told me that you had rooms in
London. That can hardly be like a home,

I suppose. You said you had a mother
though.'

Yes ; I am blessed with a mother, and also
with a sister. But we are three. I am glad to
say that we are always very good friends when
we meet ; but it is doubtful whether we should
continue to be so if we lived under one roof.
So we don't live under one roof; and, in default
of a home, I have to make the best of Duke
Street, St. James's.'

Well,' said the girl after a short pause.
I suppose most people must be contented with
second bests in this world, and ought to be
thankful enough if they get as much.'

I don't agree with you in the least ! ' cried
Vidal, with some warmth. ' I think there is
nothing so fatal to happiness as making up your
mind to be contented with something less than
what you want.'

But if you can't get what you want ? — or
if you don't quite know what you want ? '

If YOU don't know, you are in a bad way,
I admit ; but surely it ought not to be very
difficult to find out ; and then it depends almost
entirely upon yourself, I believe, whether you
get it or not. There are very few things,
except good health, of which a man can say
that it is impossible that he should ever gain
them.'

Ah, a man — perhaps. But a woman is ina
very different position. It is not always possible
for her to control her destiny ; and even if
it were, she might shrink from consulting only
her own interests.'

Are you speaking of yourself? ' asked
Yidal abruptly.

Miss Irvine laughed. ' Oh,' she said, ' my
destiny is a very uncertain affair as yet, and at
any rate I have this advantage over you, that I
am quite satisfied with my home. I wonder
whether you will ever see it ? Polruth is rather
out of the world ; but numbers of people —

quite ten families, I should think — come down
every summer now for the sea-bathing ; and it
is admitted that ours is the finest coast in England
in point of scenery.'

I have been for a long time meditating a
tour in Cornwall,' said Vidal, with pardonable
mendacity. ' Perhaps I might be able to illustrate
my theory of being able to do what I
want to do by turning up in your neighbourhood
some time in August.'

Oh, I wish you would ! ' cried Miss Irvine,
displaying more frank cordiality than was quite
agreeable to her would-be lover. ' If you came
in August, Mr. Heriot would be with us, most
Hkely ; so that we should be able to offer you
that additional attraction. Do try to manage
it. I wish we could give you a room ; but I
am afraid all the boys will be at home then.
However, we could easily find tolerable quarters
for you in the village.'

She went on talking about Polruth and

about Cornish manners and customs with a good
deal of animation, hardly allowing Yidal to get
in a word edgeways. Evidently she was desirous
of avoiding the more serious subject which they
had begun to discuss; and this excited her
companion's curiosity, and made him determine
to re-introduce it at the earliest opportunity.
However, she spared him that trouble by
recurring to it herself, after a time. They had
reached a point near the Eigi Staff, and, the
veil of mist having lifted for a moment, were
looking down upon a motionless sea of cloud,
out of which dim mountain-tops rose like islands
here and there.

'According to you,' Miss Irvine began
abruptly, ' one has only to wish for a thing
with sufficient energy, and one is pretty sure to
get it. That may be so ; but surely, without
being at all heroically unselfish, one must be
guided a little by what others wish. One's own

happiness ought not to be the sole aim and
object of one's life.'

I don't say that it should ; although, as a
matter of fact, happiness, present or future, is
exactly what everybody does pursue. Of course,
happiness admits of many definitions. Some
people, I firmly believe, get it by simply satisfying
their appetites ; others find it in doing
their duty, or in sacrificing themselves for the
benefit of their neighbours.'

I can't think that any one would sacrifice
himself merely because he expected to be the
happier for doing so. But perhaps a sacrifice
might cease to be a sacrifice if it gave a great
deal of pleasure to those whom one cared most
about in the world.'

That would depend upon what it involved,
I should say. But the fact is that we are at
cross purposes. Miss L^vine. I was speaking
generally, whereas you are thinking of some
particular instance.'

Sto ; — at least, I was thinking of something
but it doesn't signify, answered the girl,
rather incoherently. ' Ought we not to be
going back ? '

Yidal looked at his watch, and found that
they certainly ought. They had but ten
minutes in which to retrace their steps ; and
very soon the imprudence of indulging in day-dreams
and propounding vague theories while
walking through a fog was brought home to
him. He did not like to tell Miss Irvine that he
had utterly lost his bearings, but when he had
spent a quarter of an hour in hurrying her
hither and thither the admission was superfluous.


Mr. Yidal,' she said calmly, ' have you the
slightest idea of where we are ? '

If you insist upon the truth,' answered
Yidal, half laughing, ' I must confess that I
have not.'

Then hadn't you better shout until someone
comes?'

It really seemed the only thing to be
done. There was something rather humiliating
in shrieking for assistance, and also in being
lost upon a mountain which is traversed by two
lines of railway, and sprinkled all over with
hotels ; but the awkwardness of the predicament
that they were in was more apparent to
Vidal than to Miss Irvine ; besides which, he
had just a faint hope of being able to stop the
tram if he could make their whereabouts
known.

This hope died away after he had shouted
himself hoarse without eliciting any response,
and he was beginning to feel as uncomfortable
as he had ever felt in his life, when he was
startled by a stentorian bellow, proceeding
from some point only a few yards away, and
immediately afterwards a figure loomed up
through the mist, which proved to be that of a
native, who had been sent up from the hotel to
search for the wanderers. The train had les'

some time since, he explained ; and as, unfortunately,
it was the last one, the ' Herrschaft '
had gone down in it. But he could take them
down by some short cuts, and there was a boat
from Weggis at seven o'clock, which they
could easily catch, if the lady did not mind the
walk.

It was only too plain that, whether the lady
minded it or not, the walk would have to be
undertaken, and Yidal's contrition was so deep
and unfeigned that a far less amiable person
than Miss Irvine must needs have pardoned
him.

It was not your fault,' she said ; ' and I
am quite accustomed to rough walking and wet
weather. So long as we catch the boat, there
will be no harm done.'

Whether she realised the situation in all its
bearings, Vidal hardly knew ; but, for his own
part, he was a good deal vexed, feeling that he
had not only let slip the opportunity of saying

many things to her which he would have liked
to say, but that he had probably put in serious
jeopardy the position that he had won in Mrs.
Irvine's good graces.

Their guide was hastening downhill at a
jog-trot which made conversation all but impossible
; and Miss Irvine declined the young
man's repeated offers of assistance, declaring
that she was perfectly well able to take care of
herself, and begging only that no time might
be lost ; but he took advantage, at last, of a
short stretch of level ground to turn round and
say, ' I hope your mother will not be very angry
with me.'

To which she replied, ' Oh dear, no ! Why
should she be ? She will not even be angry
with me. My mother is very good-natured.'

Yidal could but trust that the old lady

might prove worthy of the character attributed

to her ; but he felt very ill at ease and ashamed

of himself; and whee, at length, they reached

VOL. I. G

Weggis, weary, muddy, and wet, it was a great
relief to him to find only Heriot waiting for
them on the landing-stage.

Mr. and Mrs. Irvine, it appeared, had been
persuaded to go on to Lucerne by the last boat,
and Heriot was too glad to see the truants back
safe and sound to scold either of them ; but
Vidal, knowing the man, saw that he was more
annoyed than he wished to show, and as soon
as they were on board the steamer he took
occasion to apologise.

I'm awfully sorry to have kept you standing
about there in the rain, old man ; but I
didn't do it on purpose, you know.'

Oh, the waiting was nothing,' Heriot said.

I didn't give Miss Irvine that long walk
on purpose either, as far as that goes.'

His friend was silent for a minute or two,
and then remarked, ' Well, they are going
away tomorrow.'

So that I shan't be able to do it again, do
you mean ? ' asked Vidal, laughing.

I mean that I am very glad they are going
away,' answered Heriot ; and Vidal did not see
fit to press him for an explanation.

g2

CHAPTEE VI.

'SI JE VOUS LE DISAIS.'

Mrs. Irvine was perhaps less particular or less
suspicious than the generality of mothers. At
all events, she did not seem to think that Vidal's
heedlessness called for any blame ; but, on the
contrary, began to beg his pardon for having
run away and left him in the lurch. ' Mr.
Irvine did want to set out in search of you,'
she said ; ' but, you know, if I had let him do
that I should have had to go and look for him,
and then somebody else would have had to look
for me, and there would have been no end toit.
So I persuaded him to come straight back ;
and afterwards I was particularly glad that I
had done so, because we met the SkefSngtons

at the table-d'hote — do you happen to know
General Skeffington ? — ^siich a nice man ! — and
he was very encouraging about poor Charley.
Charley is my second boy, who has failed for
the army, poor fellow ! General Skeffington
says he isn't in the least surprised. I mean,
he thinks that all these examinations are great
nonsense, and that an officer ought not to be a
bookworm. Fortunately, there is still the
militia, so that we need not despair.'

Mrs. Irvine had innumerable acquaintances,
whom she utilised, or thought that she utilised,
to assist her in heating the equally innumerable
quantity of irons which she always had in the
fire. The smooth things prophesied to her by
General Skeffington and the prospects of the
unlearned Charley occupied all her conversation
until she badeVidal good-night: and the young
man felt that he had been let off cheaply.

The next morning, at eight o'clock, he was
at the station to say good-bye to his new friends.

Heriot, intending to break the journey at Bale,
had decided to leave by a later train. It was
not without a certain sinking of the heart that
our hero followed Miss Irvine, whose travelling
bag and cloak he was carrying, across the platform.
The three days' romance was at an end,
he thought sadly. Yesterday he had not been
far from declaring his love ; to-day it seemed
impossible that he could ever have dreamt of
doing so insane a thing. For what was he, or
could he be, to her but a stranger in whose
company a few hours had been spent, more or
less agreeably — at best, one whom she might
have learnt to like if chance had thrown them
together for a longer time ?

They had to part now, like the mere acquaintances
that they were. And then he
thought how beautiful she was, and how, as a
matter of course, others besides himself must
be captivated by her beauty ; and something
seemed to tell him that she was reserved for a

higher destiny than he could offer. So opposite
are the influences exercised by a mountain top
and a railway station ! As he helped her to
arrange her paraphernalia, and mechanically
uttered the commonplaces suitable to the occasion,
Alfred de Musset's hues kept ringing in
his head — Si je vous le disais, pourtant, que je
VOUS aime ! Did she understand at all ? he
wondered. And, supposing that she could be
made to understand, would she be siu-prised, or
angry, or only amused ? At any rate, it was
certain that no hint could be conveyed in the
midst of all that hurry and bustle. He was
obliged to get out of the carriage to make room
for Mr. and Mrs. Irvine ; and to them, too,
some last words had to be spoken. The old
gentleman roused himself to say that his clubs
were the Athenaeum and the Oxford and Cambridge,
and that he hoped Mr. — er — er — Elder
would look him up when he was in London ;
and then Mrs. Irvine broke in with —

Oil, but Mr. Yidal is going to pay Cornwall
a visit. — Mr. Heriot, do you know that he
talks of being in our parts in August ? '

Oh ! ' said Heriot, rather drily.

Yes ; and I was thinking about what
rooms there were in Polruth ; and I feel sure
that old Mrs. Treweeke would be just the person.
A most respectable old creature, and
would do her very best to make you comfortable
— lost both her sons in a mining accident,
poor thing ! so that one would be glad to do
her a good turn ; only perhaps you ought to
lock the wine up, you know — just as a precaution,
that's all. But I will make a point of
writing to you about it. Have you got one of
your cards ? Duke Street, St. James's — thank
you so much ! And you'll bear in mind that
Italian governess, won't you ? Signora Lisette,
or Stiletto, or something like that — however,
all particulars can be had on application to me.

Good-bye — so glad to have met you!— Goodbye,
Mr. Heriot.'

And now there was only time to repeat the
same melancholy word to Miss Irvine, and to
catch her last smile and nod before the train
began to move. Vidal stood looking after it
with mournful eyes, and murmuring to himself,
Side VOUS le disais, pourtant, que je vous aime,
qui sait, brune aux yeux bleus, ce que vous en
diriez f '

He was roused by Heriot's voice, which
sounded a little harshly, saying, ' Come and sit
down somewhere in the shade, Adrian ; I want
to talk to you.'

You say that as if you intended to give mea
tremendous rowing,' remarked Vidal, as he
took his friend's arm. ' Have I been misbehaving
myself? '

Ah, that is just what I don't know,'
answered Heriot ; * and that is what I want
you to tell me.'

But as Yidal only laughed, without replying,
the other said no more until they had
passed out of the station and had found an unoccupied
bench near the lake, when he resumed
abruptly, ' Well, how far has it gone ? '

I don't know what you mean.'

Oh, pardon me, my dear fellow, I think
you do know. You and I understand one
another pretty well at this time of day, and I
am not going to make any apologies for my
impertinence.'

Certainly not. But all the same, I done
know what you mean. In one sense — so far
as I am concerned, that is — it has gone very
far indeed ; about as far as it could go. I
don't mind telling you that ; and, in fact, I
should have told you, whether you had asked
me or not. In another sense, it hasn't gone
on at all ; it hasn't begun.'

Heriot stroked his beard and sighed. ' I

hope you won't go down to Cornwall,' he said
presently.

Why not ? Can you give me any good
reason why I shouldn't ? I don't understand
you. Look here, Heriot — you won't mind my
asking, will you ? Have you any — any feeling
for her yourself ? '

I have such a feeling for her as a middle-aged
man, who is dying of angina pectoris, may
have for a beautiful girl upon the threshold of
life,' answered Heriot quietly ; ' and you must
remember that it was I who took the responsibility
of introducing you to her. As for giving
you good reasons for letting a flirtation of three
days drop now '

It has not been a flirtation,' interrupted
the younger man eagerly. ' Believe me or
not as you like, she is the only woman whom
I have ever loved, and whether I have known
her three days or three years is nothing to the
purpose

Well, well. But I can give you the
good reasons, nevertheless. To begin with —
and, for the matter of that, I suppose we might
end with it too ; for it's painfully conclusive —
you are not well enough off to marry.'

I have six hundred a year.'

That is what I say. You have six hundred
a year, and stinginess has never been one of
your defects. You know very well that it is
all you can do to live upon your income as a
bachelor. To bring up a family upon it would
be so wildly impossible that I can't believe you
have seriously contemplated such a thing.'

It struck Yidal that this was taking time by
the forelock with a vengeance. ' I confess that
I haven't given much thought to the family,
he answered, with a slight laugh ; ' but as for
my income, I hope it won't remain stationary
I have added to it a little already from time to
time, and I mean to add to it in a more systematic
way now, if I can.'

By writing ? '

'Why not? Men have made money by
writing before now.'

How many men ? — and how much money?
You know, I am not altogether ignorant of
literary matters ; I have written a little myself
at odd times.'

But not novels.'

Not novels, certainly ; still I know something
of the experiences of novelists. It isn't
altogether a question of merit ; so I may say,
without casting any reflection upon you, that
the chances are very much against your ever
making a living at that trade.'

Yet you recommended it.'

As being preferable to none ; I know I
did. I was sure that you could write what I
should consider a good novel ; but I can't
answer for the opinion of the public, which
pays. All I wish to point out is that the prospect

is an uncertain one; and you yourself
will admit that much.'

'I admit that all beginners must be uncertain
of success. But, Heriot, doesn't it occur
to you that you are taking a great deal too
much for granted? You talk as if winning
Miss Irvine's love would be the easiest thing in
the world — as if I had only to throw the handkerchief.
It seems to me that you are as far
from understanding her as you are from realising
that poverty is only a relative evil.'

I venture to look upon poverty as a positive
evil,' said Heriot. ' As for Clare Irvine — well,
since we are alone, I will speak plainly and
without regard for your blushes. You are
very good-looking, my dear Adrian, and you
are also clever and amiable ; so that a young
woman who should fall in love with you could
hardly be accused of bad taste. I don't think
it is taking too much for granted to assume
that this particular young woman is liable to

be attracted by what attracts others, and that
is why I say that you are bound to consider
consequences. The thing isn't done yet ; just
stop and think a Httle before you do it. And
there's something more that I should like to
say to you. I heard yesterday from Mrs.
Irvine that Clare has it open to her to make an
excellent marriage. It seems that in the course
of their wanderings they fell in with a man
named Wilbraham, whom I know a little, and
who is a thoroughly good fellow in every way.
He has the advantage of being rich and well
connected, and I suppose no parents can be
indifferent to such things. He proposed to
Clare when they were at Eome, and although
she began by refusing him, she afterwards
seemed disposed to change her mind ; and the
long and the short of it is that he hasn't yet
received his final answer.'

'Oh, is that it?' said Yidal. 'Now I
understand.'

He was thinking of what the girl had said
to him the day before, and he shuddered at
the idea that she was in danger of throwing
away her life, to please a mother whom, in his
haste, he set down as greedy and scheming.

Heriot, who could not follow his thoughts,
went on :

You understand the nature of the case
now. She is just upon the point of accepting
a man who will make the kindest and best of
husbands, when, lo and behold ! down drops a
good-looking pauper from the clouds and sets
to work to unsettle her mind. Don't you
think the good-looking pauper would do well
to betake himself to Jericho ? '

I dare say I might think so if I were her
father,' answered Vidal ; ' but I am not her
father — nor are you. Would you like to see
her marry a man whom she doesn't love,
because he is rich and may help her brothers

on in the world ? For I take it that that is
the English of the matter.'

No,' answered Heriot, ' I shouldn't like
that, and I doubt very much whether she
would do it either. What I should like her todo
would be to love the man. She certainly
can't be very far off loving him, or she wouldn't
hesitate.'

I don't see that at all ; but if it is as yoa
say, she will have ceased to hesitate before I
can meet her again. So that I am powerless
to do her any harm — or good. If only I had
known yesterday as much as I know now ! '

What would you have done ? '

I should have told her that I loved her.
She would have refused me, without any
doubt ; but it is just possible that my speaking
might, as you say, have " unsettled her mind ; "
and that would have been something.'

Heriot clasped his hands behind his head,
stared up at the sky, and whistled a tune.

VOL. I. H

Why do you do that ? ' asked Vidal
irritably.

To keep myself from being so rude as to
say what I think of you.'

Vidal laughed. ' Now, Heriot, that's humbug.
The sort of generosity which you ask of
me would be no generosity at all. It is quite
comprehensible that you shouldn't wish me to
marry Miss Irvine '

I don't see how you can marry her.'

Well, let us put things at the worst, and
say that I can't. Then, according to you, I
ought to stand aside and allow some other man
to make her happy. I don't know whether I
should be capable of such magnanimity if the
case were to arise — I hope I should. But the
case has not arisen ; because I happen to know
that this man Wilbraham cannot make her
happy.'

How do you know anything about it ? '

'From a few words that she let fall

yesterday. I didn't understand her at the
time, but I do now ; and I tell you that if she
gives way, it will be simply and solely because
that infernal old mother of hers has persuaded
her that it is her duty to sacrifice herself for
her family.'

The yoimg man started to his feet as he
spoke, strode away for a few yards, then came
back and threw himself violently down upon
the bench again. ' I wish to Heaven you
hadn't told me of this, now that it is too late ! '
he exclaimed.

Heriot smiled. The truth was, that he had
seen his friend in love before, and was not
greatly moved by this display of agitation.
'You are quite mistaken,' he said quietly.
Poor Mrs. Irvine doesn't deserve abuse. Like
other mothers, she would be very much
pleased if her daughter made a brilliant
match ; but she is not worldly or grasping, and
Clare is as free to choose for herself as any girl

h2

can be. Hitherto she has not been embarrassed
by a large field of choice. She has
lived all her life down in the country, and this
season at Eome has given her her first sight
of the outer v^orld. I wish she could have
fancied Wilbraham ; but, from what you say, I
fear there is very little chance for him. It is a
pity.'

Do you really think that ? ' asked Vidal
eagerly. ' Do you think she will refuse
him ? '

I don't think she would have spoken to
you upon the subject if she had meant to
accept him. But, setting him aside, I do wish,
Adrian, both for your sake and for hers, that
you would try to get over this fancy. You
and she are not suited to one another ; but I
won't dwell on that point, because, of course,
you wouldn't believe me. You will acknowledge,
though, that, from a common-sense
point of view, it would be a great deal better

if you were not to meet again. You have no
business to make love to her unless you see
some prospect of being able to marry her ; and
you can't ask her to starve with you upon six
hundred a year. Dive into the mountains and
write novels, and forget that there is such a
person as Clare Irvine.'

I fully intend to dive into the mountains
and work like a nigger,' answered Vidal, who
had recovered his good humour ; ' but as for
forgetting her, that is what I shall never do to
the last day of my life.'

Heriot, who had more faith in his friend's
powers of oblivion than he thought it prudent
to express, made no reply, and the subject was
allowed to drop.

On the following day Vidal carried his
hopes and anxieties up to Engelberg, there to
labour and meditate until the wished-for time
of his return to England should come. The
repose and silence of that high-lying region,

then just awakening out of its long winter's
sleep, did him but little good ; and, although
he conscientiously worked a certain number of
hours every day, there always remained a
certain balance of time upon his hands, during
which the want of companionship weighed
heavily upon him. If anything could have
intensified his love for Clare Irvine, it would
have been the knowledge that he had a rival.
During his rambles over rocky heights and
slopes, where thousands of wild flowers were
springing up between the patches of half-melted
snow, he thought of her and of her
only ; he pictured her to himself yielding to
the solicitations of inconsiderate parents and of
a too unselfish nature ; he was consumed with
a feverish longing to hurry home after her, and
hear the worst.

Nevertheless, he stuck to his resolution,
and remained where he was, taking no small
credit to himself for his strength of purpose in

SO doing. For, indeed, he believed himself to
be somewhat remarkable for strength of purpose.
He had been quite sincere, and had
imagined that he was speaking from experience,
when he laid down the proposition that a
man has only himself to blame if he does not
obtain the object of his desires. He had
pretty generally got what he had wanted, and
had not looked as closely as he might have
done into the causes which had led to that
happy result. As a fact, moral strength did
not happen to be his most striking quality.
Sanguine, easily elated, and easily depressed,
he stood in constant need of sympathy, and
was not one who could bear many failures or
hold out for an indefinite time against difficulties.
Yet (as Heriot had long ago found
out) he was capable of distinguishing himself
far above his fellows. Granted a first success,
he might make himself heard of in the world.
The few steps which he had already taken on

the road towards fame had been tolerably long
steps for a beginner. His essays, contributed
to various reviews and magazines, and dealing
chiefly with such aspects of modern life as lie
upon the surface, had attracted a good deal of
notice. They had been bright, clever, excellently
worded, and had conveyed the idea that
their writer possessed a wider and more
profound acquaintance with his subjects than
was actually the case. Now he had written a
novel, to which he had given the name of
'Satiety,' and in which he had satirised what
he, oddly enough, fancied to be the prevailing
characteristic of his generation. Of this work
he secretly — perhaps unconsciously — expected
great things. He had spoken, and even
thought, disparagingly of it ; but he hardly
anticipated a disparaging verdict from the press
or the public. And if it should prove — as
why should it not? — to be the passport to
that Tom Tiddler's ground in which successful

novelists are popularly supposed to disport
themselves, might not marriage be among the
good things which it would bring within the
reach of its talented author ?

As he walked among those lonely heights
his love grew stronger and deeper. Hitherto
he had lacked an object in life ; now he had
found one. In Clare he recognised at once his
inspiration and his reward. Upon more mature
reflection he had admitted to himself the
justice of much that Heriot had urged ; but he
resolved that, whether he might find it his
duty to avoid Miss Irvine for a time or not, he
would approach her as soon as he had the
right to do so, and that for that end he would
labour and live. The only deplorable part of
the business was that it should be complicated
with a Wilbraham.

CHAPTEE Iii.

A LITTLE DISCOURAGEMENT.

One fine hot morning in the beginning of July
Mr. Heriot left his house and walked slowly-down
Brook Street, carrying his stick under his
arm and stooping slightly, as his habit was.
The fashionable world was hardly out of bed
yet, for the clocks had only just struck ten ; but
many of Heriot's acquaintances were already up
and abroad, and he had not proceeded far on
his way before he was accosted by some of these.
A curate, hurrying along with shuffling ecclesiastical
gait, caught sight of him and crossed
the road, exclaiming, ' You're the very man I
wanted to meet ! ' After which there was a brief
colloquy, and Heriot's finger and thumb went

into his waistcoat pocket, and a transfer of coin
took place. In Bond Street, further on, some
of the tradespeople, who were standing in their
doorways, wished him good morning, and
hoped he was keeping pretty well this beautiful
weather. For London is not quite the unneighbourly
city that it is often represented as
being, and those who spend a little money and
take a little interest in the parishes wherein
they dwell soon discover that the metropolis is
rather a collection of small towns than one
immense one. Heriot had plenty of money,
which he distributed freely and unostentatiously
among those who had none ; so that his
kindly, ugly face was tolerably well known in
the streets which lay between his house and his
club.

Morning', sir. Ain't seen you this three
weeks,' said the crossing-sweeper in Piccadilly.
Bin purely again, sir ? '

But Heriot, as he produced the expected

sixpence, said ' No,' he had only been down in
the country ; and so passed on to Duke Street,
where he was informed that Mr. Yidal was at
home and at breakfast.

Vidal greeted his friend with even more
warmth than usual. ' My dear old chap, how
delighted I am to see you ! What the deuce
do you mean by going out of town the very
day that I return F Sit down, and they'll
bring you some hot coffee in a minute.'

Thanks, I have breakfasted,' answered
Heriot ; ' but I'll smoke a cigarette with you
if you'll allow me. Well, and what is your
news ? '

Vidal made a gesture of profound discouragement.
' My news ! Why, you must know
already what my news is likely to be. I suppose
you have seen the papers ? '

I have been staying in a house where they
don't take in many papers,' answered Heriot,
conscious of an unflattering ignorance upon a

subject which ought to have engrossed him
more deeply ; ' but I saw some very favourable
notices of your book before I left London

Oh, some of them were civil enough ;
some of them always are, I take it. But
the people whose praise is worth having
won't hear of me at any price. They've found
me out, my dear fellow, they've discovered the
nakedness of the land, as I knew they would.
Just look at that ! '

And he tossed a copy of the Monday
Review across the table to Heriot, who began
to read aloud the article to which his attention
was directed.

It is not as often as we could wish that
we are able to congratulate the writers of
novels upon having selected a thoroughly
appropriate title for their works, and we are
the more ready to accord this praise to the
author of " Satiety," since it is very nearly the
only word of praise that we have it in our power

to bestow upon him. If ever three volumes
were calculated to produce upon the mind of
the reader that sensation of which the heading
of each page appears to be intended as a dismal

warming

this point Heriot thought he wouldn't
read aloud any more, and finished the article
in silence ; while Yidal, who had thrown himself
into an arm-chair, smoked and stared up
at the ceiling.

After a longish pause the younger man
said, ' There are lots of others there at your
elbow. You had better look through them,
and then tell me honestly whether you still
think I have a chance of doing any good at
this trade.'

Heriot obeyed, and, after perusing a dozen
or so of critiques, long and short, exclaimed,
Why, my dear boy, nearly all of them are
complimentary, and some are positively fulsome.
Here's the Society Newsmen says '

I don't care two straws what the Society
Newsmen says,' interrupted Yidal ; ' and it
doesn't give me the smallest satisfaction to be
praised for qualities which I don't possess.'

The Discriminator then — since you won't
be contented with anything less than a high-class
journal — the Discriminator pats you on
the back in the most friendly way, and thinks
that " this is in many respects the most remarkable
novel of the year. . . . The characters
are not only drawn with rare skill — that of
Lady Tatter ville, the selfish and cynical old
woman of the world, would have done no discredit
to Thackeray — but behave themselves
under all circumstances as such characters would
behave themselves in real life. Mr. Vidal knows
what he is writing about, and gives us a sketch
of modern society, m certain of its developments,
which we must admit to be substantially
accurate ; although we may doubt whether he
is just fieri in his conclusion that the men and

women of our day are less capable of being
roused to enthusiasm than their predecessors.
We wonder, for instance, what he would say to
the crowds of fashionable ladies who thronged
to hear Messrs. Moody and Sankey not many
years ago, or to the considerable number of men
who brave ridicule at the present time by wearing
a scrap of blue ribbon in their button-holes.
We should like Mr. Yidal to think out these
and similar manifestations before he writes his
next novel. . . . The story upon which he
hangs his brilliant digressions is, it is true, of
the slenderest kind, and seems to us to be wanting
in movement throughout ; but " '

Ah, there it is, you see,' interpolated
Yidal.

Well, but he goes on to say that, if the
story lacks this, it has abundance of that and
t'other, and winds up by prophesying that you
will leave your mark upon the literature of the
era. Isn't that good enough for you ? '

^ I must say,' remarked Vidal, after smoking
for some minutes in silence, 'that T like the
Discriminator. I think it's honest, you know.
One may not always agree with its views ; but
one feels that it is written by men who are
doing their best to be fair, and who don't scamp
their work. When they review a novel they
read it, and read it carefully too — which is
more than can be said for some of their contemporaries.'


It is, no doubt, an excellent paper,' agreed
Heriot, without the shadow of a smile. ' The
Monday Review has also its merits ; but it is
too superficial, and it labours under the disadvantage
of being somewhat celebrated for its
smart writing. Imagine the position of an
unlucky paper which has to keep up that reputation
when opportunities for smartness are so
often wanting. I think you ought to be more
sorry for the poor Monday Reviewer than angry
with him. What could be more pathetic than
VOL. I. I

this ? "If Satiety ' were as preposterous in plot,
as silly in dialogue, or as ungrammatical in style
as many of the novels which our duty compels
us to peruse, we could feel relatively grateful to
Mr. Vidal, since it is just possible that our
labours might then have been lightened by an
occasional laugh. But it is none of these things.
It is only dull ; only vapid ; only wanting in
every single quality that goes to make a readable
novel." Can't you see the wretched man
rubbing his head in despair ? " Hang it all ! I
must be smart ; I must maintain the character
of the paper ; I must amuse the public ; and
here's this pestilent fellow won't give one half a
chance ! No words used out of their proper
sense — no confused metaphors — no pea-green
sunsets — no nothing ! " And then he very
naturally turns upon you in his exasperation,
and declares that "it is not too much to say
that in the course of a very long experience of
novels we have come across none so uninterruptedly

tedious as ' Satiety'" " A very long experience,
too," poor fellow ! Don't you see that
if he has been doing nothing but review novels
all his life, he can't be capable of any very
ambitious literary work ? And why should
you allow yourself to be cast down because a
man of such low intellectual calibre fails to
appreciate you ? '

I am quite well aware that you are laughing
at me, Heriot,' said Yidal ; ' but there is
some truth in what you say, for all that. The
unfortunate part of it is that critics influence
the public — at least, I suppose they do. I
wish you would tell me what you yourself
thought of the book.'

Heriot hesitated for a moment. ' I read it
with a great deal of pleasure,' he said at
length ; ' but I can't honestly say that it struck
me as being a good novel. You know as well
as I do what its defects are ; and I should say
that you could very easily avoid them next

1 2

time. If I were you, I wouldn't be above
learning by experience ; and I think I should
be very well satisfied with such success as the
book has had.'

It has had no success,' answered Vidal
gloomily. ' It doesn't sell.'

Hem ! That is a good deal worse than
adverse criticism.'

Well, yes, I am afraid it is. I hoped to
make a living by my pen ; but now — I don't
know. Do you think I have it in me, Heriot?'

Heriot looked distressed. ' I think you
have it in you to write a much better novel
than " Satiety," ' he answered. ' More than that
I can't venture to say. I can only repeat what
I told you at Lucerne.'

Ah, yes ! ' sighed the young man. ' Sometimes
I wish I had never gone to Lucerne ; and

yet Come, Heriot, put me out of my pain,

and let us get it over. You know what I have
been dying to ask you all this time.'

I hoped you had got over that,' Heriot
said.

Well, I haven't got over it. I shall never
get over it,' returned the other impatiently.
For Heaven's sake, speak out, man. She has
accepted him, I suppose ? '

No ; she has refused him, I am sorry to
say. But, my dear Adrian, what difference
does that make ? '

Vidal's reply was to start out of the armchair
in which he had been reclining, and to
fling Heriot's hat up to the ceiling — his own
not being available.

Difference ! ' he exclaimed. ' The difference
between life and death, that's all! So
long as I have something to live for, and ever
so small a particle of hope to cling to, I can
work and do my best. I don't think I could
have begun all over again and changed my
style of writing, only to get a little praise from

the Monday Review. So she refused him, eh ?
Did she give any reason ? '

'Eeally I don't know,' answered Heriot,
with a vexed laugh. ' I presume she did, but
I don't think it likely that she named your
existence as the reason. All that I have heard
about it was in a letter from Mrs. L^vine, who is
already resigned to the loss of Wilbraham, and
feels confident that somebody equally eligible
will turn up. You are not equally eligible,
and I do hope and trust that you will have the
decency to refrain from turning up.'

The young man was silent for a minute or
two, and then said with sudden vehemence,
Heriot, I want to see her ! '

I dare say you do ; but it is your duty to
put a curb upon your desires. At least, don't
go down to Polruth this summer. In another
twelvemonth you will probably know something
more definite as to your future income.'

And in the meantime ? '

In the meantime there is of course the
chance of her marrying somebody else. It
seems to me that you will have to risk that.'

Well — I'll try,' said Yidal, with something
of an eJSbrt. ' I won't make any promise,
because I might not be able to keep it ; but I
admit that I should have no right to propose
to her now ; and so, no doubt, the most
prudent course is to avoid her. You are
horridly unsympathetic, do you know, Heriot.'

• No ; only I have a difficulty in believing
that a man can lose his heart irrecoverably in
these days. However, you shall have all my
sympathy so long as you continue to exercise a
little self-denial.'

It isn't a little ; it's a very great deal.
You must write to me, when you are down
there, and tell me all about her — everything
mind, whether you think I shall like it or not.'

Yidal's buoyant spirits began to rise as
soon as he was alone. A great weight had

been lifted off his mind by the news of Mr.
Wilbraham's final rejection, and the failure of
his book no longer seemed to him an irretrievable
calamity. Remembering how many
famous authors have had to force their way
through preliminary neglect and ridicule, he
felt a little ashamed of his faint-heartiness.
After all, as Heriot had said, it would be easy
possible, at all events — to correct in a second
work the mistakes which had proved fatal to
the first. The essential thing was to find out
what the public really liked ; a point upon
which he had hitherto hardly bestowed enough
attention, perhaps.

That same evening he happened to be at a
large dinner party in company with a journalist
of repute and a popular novelist. To them he
determined to address himself for the required
information, and after the ladies had left the
dining-room he sat down beside the journalist,
and put the question to him point-blank.

What do you think that the novel-reading
public really likes ? '

The journalist, who was a big, burly man,
with blunt manners, replied, ' That's rather a
puzzler. Incident — humour — pathos — development
of character — I can't say exactly.
What's one man's meat is another man's
poison, you know. But I can tell you what
nobody likes, and that's being preached at.
Take my advice, Mr. Vidal, and leave sermons
to the parsons, whose business it is to produce
them. What you want to do is to amuse
people, and you'll never do that by tying a
string of essays together and calling it a novel.'

I dare say you are quite right,' said Vidal
meekly ; ' but I didn't so much want to be told
what to avoid as what to seek.'

Well, if you ask me, I should recommend
you to write a sensation novel. In fashion or
out of fashion, they always pay and always go
down with the public. Give it 'em hot and

strong, Mr. Viclal — battle, murder, and sudden
death — and see if they don't swallow it as I
swallow this glass of claret. Devilish good
claret it is, too ! '

Apparently this was not a person of refined
taste. Yidal now betook himself to the author,
who at once began to talk to him about
^ Satiety,' and was exceedingly polite and encouraging,
as men who have reached the top of
the hill commonly are to those who are still
struggling up the ascent. On being inquired
of as to what the novel-reading public really
liked, he answered confidentially, ' Well, between
you and me, the novel-reading public
means the women. If we don't succeed in
pleasing them, we are nowhere.'

And what do they like ? ' Vidal pursued.

'Ask them,' replied the other, with a laugh,
and turned away to speak to someone else.

Vidal thought he might do worse than act
upon this hint. In the drawing-room he

approached his hostess, a lively little old lady
who had once been a beauty, and begged her
to tell him who was her favourite novelist.
Without any hesitation she named the one
who was present, thereby surprising her questioner
a little.

I admire his writing immensely,' said the
latter. ' His descriptions of scenery are inimitable,
and he is never tedious ; but '

Ml,' interrupted the old lady, ' that isn't
what I mean. His books charm me because
there is so much love-makings in them. There
is nothing so delightful to read about as love-making
— of course I mean the English variety,
not the French. Love is the one subject that
interests us all. Some of us like to read about
it because we know nothing of it at first hand ;
others because it brings back to us the happiest
days of our lives. If any woman is bored by
love scenes, so much the worse for her ! '

But there is some love-making in all
novels,' objected Yidal.

I prefer the novels in which there is very
little else,' said the old lady.

The next person to whom the inquirer applied
was a young married woman. Her reply to
his first question was identical with that of her
senior ; but she was rather more concise and
explicit in her reasons. ' He understands us,'
she said, 'he knows how we feel. Most of you
don't.'

After this, Vidal met with various responses,
none of which helped him very much towards
a conclusion. One lady, rather maliciously,
gave her verdict in favour of Mr. So-and-so,
because his novels are always in such nice
big print ; ' another declared for a writer of her
own sex, ' because she is so delightfully improper
; ' not one of them had the presence of
mind to answer boldly ' You.' But perhaps

that was partly because not one of them had
been able to read his book.

When Vidal went away, he betook himself
to the smoking-room of his club, and sitting
down in a corner, tried to sift something serviceable
out of the mass of advice and information
which he had received during the day.
The effort was not attended with much more
success than such efforts generally meet with ;
for though teachableness is an excellent quality,
it can do but little for its possessor in the absence
of adequate teachers, and no one had
taken the trouble to point out to Vidal exactly
in what way he was to set about improving his
style. The whole, when summed up, . seemed
to mean that, if he wanted his books to sell, he
must give them a little more of human interest ;
which, to be sure, he might have discovered
without consulting such a number of persons.
However, he had unconsciously made one
valuable acquisition, in the shape of a considerable

increase of humility ; so that his investigations
had not been quite so fruitless ashe
supposed.

That month of July remained long memorable
to Vidal as having brought him the first
persistent attack of low spirits with which he
had been afflicted in his life. He employed the
customary remedies in vain. Of balls, dinners,
and other entertainments he had as many as he
could desire ; for if he had not succeeded in
earning popularity as a writer, he had long
since achieved it as an individual ; but the
relaxations of society only left him dull, dissatisfied,
and weary of life. These alarming
symptoms he nati-ally set down to grief at his
separation from Clare Irvine ; but what he was
in reality suffering from was a loss of self-confidence.
He was no longer able to write
with ease ; he was hampered by a constant
dread of boring his readers, and he would have
given up writing altogether for a time, had he

not felt that time was of so much importance.
Once he went down to Brighton for a few days
on a dutiful visit to his mother, who Heed
there, and returned more depressed than ever.

Mrs. Vidal, a well-preserved widow, whose
tastes were more expensive than her means
were large, had a standing grievance against
her two children in that they had been left
independent of her, and had thus deprived her
of an income to which she considered herself to
be entitled. Her son had never lived with her
since he had attained his majority, and her
daughter was in the habit of seeking solace for
an adventurous spirit in distant travel ; so that
she would perhaps have had some right to
esteem herself neglected by them, had she not,
as a fact, found her own society and that of
her friends in Brighton a great deal more congenial
than theirs. Adrian, who was of an
affectionate nature, had been repelled in his
earliest boyhood by her icy coldness, and now

always treated her with the distant courtesy
which she preferred.

'People tell me that you have written a
clever novel,' she said on the afternoon of his
arrival. ' I seldom read novels, but I have
made a point of ordering yours from the library.
Have you made much money by it ? '

Not very much,' Adrian confessed.

No ; I should not think that you would
ever earn much money at anything,' his mother
observed dispassionately. ' And yet you must
be in need of money, I suppose. If I were in
your place, I should think seriously of making
a good marriage. No doubt you meet many
rich people in London — City people, perhaps,
with daughters. It is a pity not to take advantage
of opportunities when they present themselves.'


I don't think I should care about going in
for that sort of thins,' said Adrian, in a tone

which implied that he did not wish to discuss
the question further.

What sort of thing ? Marriage in general ? '

No ; only marriage as a financial speculation.
Father than come to that, I would '

Marry somebody's lady's-maid?' suggested
Mrs. Yidal, who had never forgotten the unfortunate
episode in her son's past life which has
already been alluded to. ' Well, there is no
accounting for tastes, and you are not likely to
be influenced by mine. I only hope you may
find your literary earnings sufficient to support
you and your wife, when you decide upon
taking one — as of course you will do, one of
these days.'

It may have been accident or it may have
been the dawning of a suspicion that caused
Mrs. Yidal to recur more than once during
Adrian's visit to the topic of his possible marriage.
' You will never be much better off
than you are now,' she said ; * for the Httle

VOL. I. K

that I have will be divided between you and
Georgina, and even that little may not come to
you for a considerable number of years. By
far your best plan would be to marry money
while you still have good looks and a certain
vague reputation for talent. Heiresses, I suppose,
expect some equivalent for their fortunes,
and perhaps it would hardly be wise to count
upon either of your special advantages increasing
with age.'

Such speeches as this did not tend to raise
poor Vidal's drooping spirits. His mother's
bland malignity would have affected him less at
any other time ; but just now it came upon
him like the proverbial last straw. Neither she
nor anyone else seemed to have the smallest
belief in his future ; and the worst of it was
that that future could never, in the nature of
things, be anything but uncertain. Even supposing
that his next novel should have the
good fortune to please the world, would that

bring him any nearer to the settled income
which fathers-inlaw usually make a sine qua
non ?

He went back to London and allowed
despair to get the upper hand of him. By degrees
he began to admit that Clare Irvine was
not for him ; for patient waiting was not among
his capacities. Yet, the more he became convinced
that his dream must be abandoned, the
more he longed to break his half-promise to
Heriot and run down to Polruth for a day or
two. He dashed with this temptation until it
assumed a definite shape. It would be so easy
and so innocent to make Cornwall the scene of
his summer holiday! He would scrupulously
avoid hungering on the north coast ; but from
Falmouth or Penzance he might sip over to
Polruth, put up at the village inn, and let nobody
know that he was there. Only to see her
would be enough. And if he did call once,
utter a few commonplaces, and bid her a silent

K 2

farewell, who could possibly be the worse for
it ? Heriot's objections were grounded upon a
supposition which only the most outrageous
vanity could accept, and Heriot himself could
hardly have the cruelty to forbid one brief
afternoon call.

And while he was thus educating his conscience,
a letter reached him which silenced
that troublesome inner voice in a most effectual
and satisfactory manner. The moment that
Vidal caught sight of the envelope on his
breakfast-table, and noted its hurriedly scrawled
address, he guessed who his correspondent must
be ; and when he tore it open and saw that it
was dated ' Cardrew, Polruth,' he invoked a
fervent blessing upon the head of Mrs. Irvine.

That impulsive lady wrote very much as
she spoke.

Dear Mr. Yidal, — I told you I would let
you know about Mrs. Treweeke's lodgings, and
you see I have not forgotten, although I have

been very busy ever since our return, so many
things requiring attention, and the boys being
all at home, which always keeps one in a state
of bustle, besides other matters which have
worried me a good deal ; but of course one
must expect worries in this world.

About Mrs. Treweeke. I was only waiting
until we got Mr. Heriot down here — and •
now he has been with us three days, and is
looking so much better that it is quite a pleasure
— so I went at once to see her, and she says
she is sure she can make you comfortable. Two
sitting-rooms and bedroom, two guineas a week
more than she ought to ask, I think; still
one must not be hard upon them, poor souls,
with such a short season, and all the trouble
that there has been about the fishing this year ;
and I am sorry I said that to you about the
wine, because I am certain she is as honest as
the day, and her feelings might be hurt, so
perhaps after all you had better not.

J^ow do, pray, think of it. We should all

be SO very glad to see you again, and Mr.
Irvine wishes me particularly to say how sorry
he is that we have no spare room just now.
Most lovely scenery, and plenty of fishing and
lawn tennis ; and of course, if you stay long
enough, there will be the shooting. Please
excuse haste, and with our kindest regards,
Believe me, very sincerely yours,

'Elizabeth Irvine.

I forgot to say about that Italian governess
don't on any account recommend her. She
has turned out to be a most disreputable person,
and the ten pounds that I lent her I never
expect to see again. Such a mercy that nobody
had engaged her before I discovered the
truth ! '

There was no holding out against that.
Vidal did not even attempt to do so, but despatched
a grateful reply to Mrs. Irvine, and
hurried off to buy a Bradshaw forthwith.

CHAPTEE VIII.

Career.

Chance, which plays a considerable part in the
lives of most people, is responsible for aU the
works and ways of a few. Chance took Mr.
Irvine to Cornwall on his wedding trip, some
five-and-twenty years before the opening of the
present narrative ; chance led him to Polruth ;
the chance of his wife's having caught a cold
in her head kept him for two days in that
unfrequented fishing-hamlet ; and chance caused
him to walk up to the old grey house called
Cardrew, which stands just beneath the brow
of the hills above the village. Cardrew had
been many years for sale, and its appearance at
that time was hardly calculated to attract

purchasers, its garden being an overgrown
wilderness, its windows for the most part
broken, and every fence and gate about it
rotting away from neglect and age. But Mr.
Irvine, who possessed a comfortable fortune
and no home, happened to have his pockets
stuffed full of house-agents' lists, and was
anticipating, with the misery of an undecided
man, a long period of house-hunting. Here
was a house to be sold — a solid, well-built,
roomy house, with a sufficiency of land about
it, a healthy position, and an admirable prospect.
What a deal of worry might be saved
by securing it and making it habitable ! He
consulted his wife, and had the happiness to
find that her views coincided with his own.
There was certainly no reason why they should
establish themselves in Cornwall, with which
county they had no family connection ; but, on
the other hand, there was no particular reason
why they should not. So the old place was

bought for a mere song, and, the necessary repairs
having been completed, Mr. and j\i[rs.
Irvine took possession.

There they settled down and multiplied, as
the years went on, with satisfaction to themselves
and to those who dwelt around them.
The neighbours, high and low — there were nota
great many of either class — soon became
attracted to this simple couple, and freely
forgave them for not having been born and
bred in the duchy. Mrs. Irvine, active, restless,
and profoundly interested in local affairs,
while keeping open her many hues of communication
with the outer world, was in more
ways than one a godsend to the parish. Her
blunders, it is true, were many and frequent,
but they were very seldom harmful ; and though
some people might occasionally find her a bore,
no one had ever been heard to accuse her of
selfishness or ill-nature. As for her husband,
he was liked, as most of us learn to like the

inanimate objects upon which our eyes rest
every day. His long hair, his devious gait,
and somewhat vacant smile became familiar to
Polruth, and would, if they had disappeared,
have been missed almost as much as the yew
tree in the churchyard or Daniel Chenoweth's
old grey mare. In due time his appointment
as a magistrate added a touch of dignity to his
harmless, desultory existence ; but he was
seldom seen two miles away from home, except
when the news of an impending sale took him
up to London, whence he would return laden
with spoils in the shape of antiquities or additions
to what was fast becoming one of the finest
numismatic collections in the west of England.
When six boys and a girl had to be fed,
clothed, and educated, the acquisition of these
ancient coins entailed a rather larger outlay of
modern ones than was quite convenient ; but
living at Polruth is very cheap, and although
the Irviness were sometimes obliged to consider

expense, they could not be said to have ever
really felt the pinch of poverty. The boys
grew up into young men with that amazing
rapidity which is common to the human race,
but which is perhaps more noticeable in
quiet neighbour-hoods than in cities. The girl,
as we have seen, developed into a singularly
beautiful young woman, and was not so
conscious of the fact as she might have been
if anyone or anything, except her looking-glass,
had informed her of it.

But she did not consult her glass more often
than was necessary for the purposes of the
toilet, and in the immediate vicinity of Polruth
there dwelt no young man of her own rank.
Her occupations, after she had been released
from the authority of her governess, were so
few that she would have found time hang
heavily on her hands had she not been^bred to
the enjoyment of still life. Her amusements
were for the most part such as her brothers

could join in ; and her knowledge of the world
was gleaned solely from what they told her, and
from books, of which she was an eager and
untrammelled devourer.

Thus it came to pass that Anglo-woman
society was astounded, one winter, by the
appearance in its midst of that rare phenomenon,
a totally un-selfconscious beauty.
That she did not receive at least a dozen offers
during the three months which she spent with
her parents on the banks of the Tiber, was
probably due to the circumstance that she was
at once monopolised by Mr. Wilbraham ; to
which cause may also be assigned her willingness
to leave scenes which, to her inexperienced
eyes, far surpassed all that had ever
been said or written about them. For she did
not wish to marry this man. Nature was
beginning to awaken in her ; in a vague,
dreamy way lie realised the possibilities of life
and love, and felt within herself a capacity for

happiness siicli as she knew of only by hearsay.
Carriages, diamonds, and the other adjuncts of
wealth tempted her very Httle, nor did it occur
to her to desire the love of a man who could
give her these pleasant things. Yet Mr. Wil-abraham,
viewed in the abstract, was very
desirable. He had large estates, he had
powerful connections, and he was more than
usually pleasing in person and manners. Such
a highly favoured individual is not to be
rejected without reasons, and reasons were
precisely what Clare could not give for rejecting
him. When Mrs. Irvine, with some
natural impatience, asked her what she would
have, she could only reply that she didn't
know ; and when her suitor roundly declared
that he would not take ' No ' for an answer, she
thought of all that he could do for the boys,
and hesitated. Like many other young persons,
she was subject to fits of melancholy
which nothing in her circumstances warranted.

It seemed to her that hers was a purposeless
life, and that if she could promote the happiness
of others by marrying a man whom she
really did not dislike, it would perhaps be
foolish, as well as selfish, to draw back because
of some undefined prospect which she feared to
lose. Wilbraham's arrival at Lucerne found
her still wavering ; but no sooner had she
reached home than she wrote him a refusal so
decisive that he made no further attempt to
move her. From this it might seem as though
the prospect above referred to had ceased to be
undefined ; but such was by no means Clare's
belief. She was a good deal ashamed of
herself, and felt that her eldest brother. Jack,
was not far wrong when he called her an
awful cuvier ' for throwing such a chance
away.

Just think of the sport we might have
had ! ' he exclaimed regretfully. ' Do you
know that he has a deer forest and a three-hundred

ton yacht, and that they made bigger
bags at his place in Norfolk last winter than on
any other estate in England ? It strikes me
that you are too ambitious, Clare. The last
member of the Eoyal Family is disposed of
now, you know ; and the supply of unmarried
dukes is lamentably deficient.'

The girl was really more hurt by this
good-humoured chaff than she cared to show.
Xo one treated her with unkindness ; but it was
clear enough that everyone thought her rather
silly, and she was conscious that she had been
to blame in taking so long a time to make up
her mind. Heriot's arrival was a comfort to
her. He and she had always been friends ;
she knew instinctively that he understood her,
and this knowledge was not the less soothing
because she had some difficulty in understanding
herself. Sometimes she was inclined to ask
him whether he thought she had done wrong ;
but now that the thing was over, and the

decision irrevocable, there seemed to be little
use in talking about it ; so lie kept her
misgivings to herself, and carried them out to a
certain grassy headland overlooking Polruth
Bay, where she was wont to dream away some
part of the long summer days.

One afternoon in the beginning of August
she was sitting there upon the short, sweet-smelling
herbage, her hands clasped round her
knees, and her eyes fixed upon the golden
mists which obscured the horizon. Some three
or four hundred feet beneath her the Atlantic
rollers awoke the echoes of the caves ; on her
rio'ht hand Polruth, a jumble of slate roofs, and
steep, narrow streets, overtopped its diminutive
harbour, and to the right of that again a great
semi-circle of white sand swept away to the
promontory which formed the northern horn of
the bay. Clare did not heed this familiar
prospect, nor hear the shouts that arose from
the returning fishing-boats. For a long time

she had remained without changing her attitude,
and from the intensity of her gaze it
might almost have seemed as though, like
Sister Anne, she expected to see somebody
coming to her out of that mysterious haze
which bounded the world.

Somebody was indeed coming, though
from a less improbable direction. A young
man, who had just arrived from London, and
had taken up his quarters at Mrs. Treweeke's
lodgings, had strolled out to get a breath of
fresh air before dinner, and when this young
man recognised Miss Irvine, his heart leaped
up within him. What was he to do ? He had
come to Polruth with the firm intention of
keeping his secret, of speaking to her only
when other persons were present, and of
avoiding all risk of self-betrayal. Prudence,
therefore, counselled a swift and silent retreat,
and he actually did turn round and take as
many as six steps in the direction of the village

VOL. I. L

before he stopped to see whether prudence
might not be open to argument. What
happens under such circumstances we all
know. Prudence is always vanquished before
the argument begins, and in another minute
Clare heard a voice behind her saying, 'Miss
Irvine, how do you do ? '

The voice had an odd tremor in it ; it said
a great deal more than the above meaningless
phrase — a great deal more than it had any
business to say. And when Clare scrambled
to her feet and turned round, she met a pair of
liquid grey eyes which spoke so plainly that
she somewhat hurriedly dropped her own
under their gaze. But it was without any
other sign of trouble than this that she held
out her hand, saying frankly, ' How do you
do, Mr. Vidal ? So you have really come to
Polruth, after all. I am so glad.'

You are very kind to say so,' murmured
Vidal. He was not accustomed to feel embarrassed

in the presence of man or woman,
and had perhaps never before in his life been
at a loss for words ; but now commonplaces
seemed to stick in his throat, and he could
only stand and look at her as she faced him
there, ^vith the sinking sun making a blaze of
sea and sky behind her, and turning her hair
into a nimbus. The moment had come, then !
He had hardly known how intensely he had
longed for it ; he had not expected that it
would move him so deeply; he was really
afraid to open his hips, lest the thoughts that
were in him should escape through them
against his will. Oh miserable pettiness of an
artificial state of society, which held him tongue-tied
because, forsooth, his income was numbered
in three figures instead of four ! How
was it possible for mortal man, with all his
inner being in such a condition of ferment, to
begin talking about the weather and the un-punctuality
of the trains ?



Perhaps it was not possible. At all events,
Vidal continued speechless, and it was Miss
Irvine who expressed a hope that the heat had
not made his journey very disagreeable. ' We
have been having a most beautiful summer,'
she said, ' and everybody prophesies that it is
going to last. I hope it will ; because, if so,
you will see Polruth at its best, and perhaps,
as my brothers are at home, you won't find it
so overpoweringly dull. You know that Mr.
Heriot is here ? '

Vidal said ' Yes,' and did not add that, all
things considered, he would have been just as
well pleased if Mr. Heriot had not been there.
They were walking back towards the village
by this time, and he was wondering whether
he would ever be alone with her again. Probably
not. He could foresee what was coming.
With a host of noisy young men swarming
round him, and with Heriot for ever on the
watch, it was not likely that such moments

as these would recur. Well, perhaps it was
best so.

Do you remember our walk on the Eigi : '
he asked abruptly.

Oh yes ; how wet and disagreeable it
was ! You went on to some place in the
mountains afterwards, didn't you ? Have you
been long back in England ? '

Wet and disagreeable ! — was that the only
memory that she had preserved of an afternoon
which he had so often lived through again in
his thoughts ? Vidal's heart sank ; he answered
her questions mechanically, and scarcely listened
to her while she enumerated the various diversions
by which the monotony of life at Polruth
might be relieved. What were lawn tennis,
and fishing for bass, and picnics to him ? Yet,
as they walked on, he could not but observe
that her manner had lost its accustomed calm,
that she was talking more and talking faster
than she had ever done at Lucerne, and that

all the time she looked straight in front of her,
instead of turning sometimes towards her companion,
as it would have been more natural todo.
Now Vidal, though in love, had not sofar
parted with his powers of induction as not
to know what this meant. His secret was
evidently a secret no longer. Whether the
discovery of it had been agreeable or disagreeable
to Miss Irvine he could not tell ; but he
saw that she had made the discovery, and that
it was agitating her. He did not offer to accompany
her beyond the door of his lodgings,
and secretly hoped that she might understand
and appreciate this act of self-denial. Whether
she did so or not, she was unmistakably relieved
to be set free.

Papa or one of the boys will come down
and see you after breakfast tomorrow,' she
said ; ' and you must not expect to be allowed
much time for work while you are here.'

She paused and opened her lips, as if she

were going to add something, but seemed to
change lier mind, and only said ' Good-night,'
as she turned away.

Vidal watched her out of sight, then slowly
combed the stairs to his sitting-room. He
threw himself down upon the broad window-seat,
and, with his folded arms resting upon
the sill, looked out across the bay. He was
two-thirds remorseful and one-third glad that
he had broken down so deplorably at the very
outset. That he should have done so did not
say much for his self-control ; but her knowledge
of the truth would make his future part in
some ways less difficult to play ; ' and after
all,' thought he, ' it is not exactly my fault if
she has found out to-day what she must have
found out sooner or later ; I said nothing that
I ought not to have said ; 1 didn't stay with
her a moment longer than mere civility required.
Unless I had gone away without speaking to
her at all, I hardly see bow I could have behaved

with more discretion. And in any case
I must have seen her tomorrow, when she
would infallibly have detected me. Don't
women always know when a man loves them ? *

He got what solace he could out of such
sophistries as these, and then, dismissing the
question of responsibility from his mind, fell to
thinking of how lovely she was, and recalling
all her words and movements, while the daylight
faded out of the west, and the sea changed
from blue to grey, and the stars came out, oneby
one.

Early the next morning Mr. Irvine made
his appearance, charged by his wife with many
messages, the exact wording of which he was
compelled to own that he had forgotten on the
way. ' But I know,' he concluded, ' that I
have strict orders to take you back to Cardrew
with me, and I can say on my own account
that we shall all be very much disappointed if
you do not treat us like friends, and lunch and

dine with us whenever you are disposed. It
doesn't look very friendly to have left you to
house yourself in lodgings ; but I think Mrs.
Irvine explained to you that we are full to the
roof just now. We are such a large family,'
continued the old gentleman, with something
of a sigh, ' that I often have difficulty in recollecting
our exact numbers and names. However,
Mrs. Irvine will be able to tell you that —
and the more the merrier, you know,' he concluded
cheerfully.

Yidal was not quite sure about the universal
application of the proverb ; but he said what
was polite, and signified his willingness to be
entertained. He was just then under the full
influence of that beatific vision which comes
once (let us hope at least once) to aU mortals,
and which, while it lasts, has power to convert
the tamest landscape into a paradise, if only
this be connected in some way with one especial
person : but even though Cardrew had not

been glorified by the presence of Clare Irvine,
and tliougb. the lanes which led up to the house
from Poh'uth had never received her footprints,
Vidal must still have acknowledged that he had
seldom seen anything more beautiful in its own
way than the view which unfolded itself around
him as he was conducted towards his destination.
Beauty of scenery, like all other kinds
of beauty, is more or less a matter of taste.
Shrubs and lowly tamarisks please not all,' as
the Latin grammar taught us long ago. In the
last century the Alps were more shuddered at
than admired ; and there are people who find
the north coast of Cornwall too wild and forbidding.
But these, perhaps, have not had the
advantage of studying it in fair weather. When
the south wind blows softly, and the slowly
heaving ocean is calm ; when the flocks of seabirds
that congregate upon the rocks and the
dark cliffs can sun themselves in peace ; when
the gorse and the heather have spread a mantle

of purple and gold over the moors ; and when
the moisture that is always in the air lends a
blue softness to all distant outlines, a man need
not be so fortunate as to be in love in order to
feel the peculiar charm of the region. Trees,
it must be owned, are not numerous, and such
as there are have been blown out of all symmetry
by the furious winter gales ; but in
sheltered places vegetation is rich, and every
whitewashed cottage has its fuchsia trees and
its giant scarlet geraniums.

Cardrew, which stands on the hill-side,
facing a point or two south of west, was built
at a time when architects thought less of shelter
from prevailing winds than of solidity of construction
; but something has been done in the
way of high stone walls and belts of hardy
shrubs to protect the garden ; so that Yidal
was able conscientiously to compliment his host
upon the brilliant flower-beds through which
he made his way towards the lawn, where

four youths in white flannels were playing
tennis.

Mrs. Irvine hurried forward to welcome
the stranger and to relieve her husband, who
promptly disappeared. ' How glad I am to see
you ! I told Clare she ought to have brought
you back to dinner last night, but she said she
was sure you wouldn't have come without
dressing — quite unnecessary ! Please understand,
once for all, that we are not going to
send you formal invitations. You are to come
here whenever you like, and dress exactly as
you please. What is the use of living in an
out-of-the-way place if one can't dispense with
formality ? Now I must introduce my boys to
you. This is Jack, my eldest son, who is still
at college. Charley I think 1 told you about :
he is to be a soldier, I hope. Bob is in the
navy ; and the one who is trying to get behind
the rhododendrons is Dick, who hasn't left
school yet. Dick is shy — the only member of

our family who was ever known to suffer in
that way. — Come out, Dick, and shake hands
with Mr. Vidal. — There are two others, Tommy
and Billy, somewhere '

In the yard, helping Jonas to cart muck,'
interpolated the timid Dick, in a deep bass
voice.

You don't mean to say so ! Then I trust
they mil stay where they are ; for I know that
nothing will induce them to wash their hands
before luncheon. — Now, boys, go on with your
game ; I am sure Mr. Vidal will excuse you.'

Mr. Vidal would most willingly have excused
the absence of every man, woman, and
child in the house, except one ; but he did not
belong to that disagreeable class of lovers who
show the depth of their affection for a single
individual by assuming a savage demeanour
towards all others, and he soon made friends
with the rising generation of twines, whom he
found to be very pleasant young fellows.

They came and sat down beside him presently,
Mrs. Irvine having retired into the
house, and put themselves and their resources
at his disposition as cordially as their parents
had done. Did he care about potting rabbits ?
and had he brought his gun with him ? If
not, he could use Jack's whenever he liked,
because Jack put on such a lot of side now that
he wouldn't condescend to that humble form of
sport. If sea-fishing was at all in his line, he
could have abundance of that any days Or, ashe
had not been in Cornwall before, perhaps
he would like to visit some of the ions of the
neighbourhood.

I'll tell you what,' cried Bob excitedly ;
I'll drive you over to Tintagel one day in the
dog-cart. You ought to see Tintagel, you
know, and I can take you by some short cuts
that save miles.'

I should rather think he Avould ! ' said
Jack. ' He'd take you over a stone wall or

fS9

two, most likely, because the horse would be
siu-e to run away with him, and he'd never find
it out till he tried to pull up. Don't you let
Bob entice you into getting into a wheeled
vehicle beside him. He tries it on with every
stranger who comes here, because he knows
very well that none of us are going to risk our
lives for his amusement. Only the other day,
in a moment of weakness, T allowed him to
take the reins, and he wouldn't give them up
again at. any price. I don't think I ever was
in such a funk in all my life. First we cannoned
against a farmer's gig and smashed his shaft ;
then we ran over a pig '

We did no such thing,' interrupted Bob
angrily. ' We only just grazed the pig, and
we should have cleared the other craft right
enough if she had answered her helm properly.
You fellows think nobody, except yourselves,
can do the simplest thing.'

No, no, Bob,' said his elder brother ; ' we

have implicit confidence in you when you are
upon your proper element ; but on dry land
we prefer to take care of our own necks ; and
if Mr. Yidal will be advised by me, he won't
let you try experiments upon his. Anyhow, I
can promise you one thing : you won't drive
my mare any more.'

I don't see much fun in driving about the
country this hot weather,' remarked Charley.
Much better stop at home and play lawn
tennis.'

The guest seemed disposed to concur in
this view. ' Does your sister ever play ? ' he
asked carelessly ; to which Jack replied ' Oh
yes, sometimes — when there's another girl here.
But women rather spoil the game, don't you
think so ? '

After a time, Heriot strolled across the
grass, with a straw hat on the back of his head
and a newspaper under his arm ; and Yidal felt
himself colouring guiltily as his friend approached.

But Heriot's face did not express
disapprobation. All he said, on joining the
group, was, 'Well, Adrian, so you've found
your way to Cornwall ; ' after which he remarked
that it must be getting near luncheon -
time.

By-and-by the young men went indoors to
change their flannels, so that Yidal had an
opportunity of saying penitently, ' I couldn't
help it, old man — I really couldn't ! '

Heriot made no reply ; but after a moment
he astonished his companion a good deal by
exclaiming abruptly, 'I wish I were in your
shoes ! '

Wish you were in my shoes ! ' echoed
Yidal. ' Why, in the name of all that's unreasonable,
should you wish that P If ever
there was a miserable man upon the face of
the earth '

Quite so ; but then misery such as yours
is Avorth more than all the contentment that
YOL. I. M

ever I have got out of life, or shall get. Goon
! — enjoy yourself — make the most of your
time. And when the day of tribulation arrives,
come to me and we will mingle oiu" tears. I'm
not going to trouble you with any more sage
precepts : events must take their course now.
You had it open to you to choose whether you
would come here or stay away, and you have
chosen. Far be it from me to suggest unavailing
regrets ! '

Vidal glanced at the speaker with a mixture
of vexation and amusement. *! can't quite
make out whether you blame me or not, Heriot,'
he said.

'Neither can I,' answered Heriot. 'Suppose
wee go in.'

Clare only made her appearance when the
rest of the party were entering the dining-room.
She took a place on the opposite side of the
table to Yidal, and although she spoke to him
several times, and was as friendly as everybody

else, lie could not help noticing that lie avoided
meeting his eyes. ' She knows that I love her,'
thought the young man, with an inward exultation
which he did not attempt to repress ; ' and
that is all that I ever dared to hope for. She
doesn't care for me — I can see that — and I'm
glad she doesn't. Am I glad? Well, no —
hardly. And yet I believe old Heriot is right,
and pain such as this is better than years of
bovine contentment. I wouldn't have it otherwise
if I could. Perhaps I could if I would ;
for love begets love, they say. But I won't !
I'll keep out of her way ; I won't even speak
to her if I can help it ; and if I find myself
giving way ever so little, I'll be off the next
morning.'

"While these and other thoughts were passing
through his mind he was conversing cheerily
with his entertainers, supported, like the Spartan
youth with the fox gnawing him under
his garment, by conscious heroism. Probably

M 2

other persons in the same room had an equal
title to self approval, from Mr. Irvine, who had
Jack's bills to pay, down to Tommy and Billy,
who were seldom free from the dread that one
of their many delinquencies was on the point of
discovery ; for in the tragic comedy of life every
man and woman has a part to play, and those
who act best are deservedly the most liked.
But the generality of us wear a mask simply
because we must, and cannot, therefore, claim
all the credit that belonged to this voluntary
victim.

CHAPTER IX.

THE REWARD OF SELF-denial.

During the month of August, with which the
present history has to do, two phenomena
occurred in the neighbourhood of Poh^uth. In
the first place, no rain fell, except in the shape
of an occasional shower, for three consecutive
weeks. This, astonishing as it was, was merely
a local and meteorological phenomenon : the
second, though less remarked, was certainly
more remarkable ; beg, indeed, nothing less
than a phenomenon in the working of human
nature. For it is a positive fact that, throughout
the whole of the above-mentioned time,
Vidal saw Miss Irvine every day, and never, byword,
deed, or sign, attempted to make love to

her. He sought the society of her brothers,
who swore by him when they discovered that
he knew how to use the graceful limbs with
which Nature had provided him, and was a
better swimmer and la dennis player than
any of them. Mr. Irvine found iu him a patient
admirer of ancient coins and mediaeval art ;
while Mrs. Irvine, who had liked him from the
first, took him up with the ardour which she
had ever at the disposal of a fresh protege and
introduced him to all her neighbours, with
whispered assurances that he was a young man
of extraordinary talent — the coming novelist of
the day. But to Clare he was just civil, and no
more. If he saw her — as he often did — walking
past his lodgings towards her favourite
headland, he watched her from the window
until she was out of sight, and then went resolutely
back to his writing. At Cardrew he
avoided every possibility of being left alone
with her, and more than once declined to join

a riding party because he foresaw the dangers
to which that form of exercise might so easily
give rise.

All this self repression was not accomplished
without pain, insomnia, and loss of appetite. If
it was absurd — if it was illogical — if it was calculated
to produce exactly the opposite effect
to that intended, it was nevertheless a victory
in its way, and a victory of a kind which is not
very often won. For that much Yidal may be
allowed to have credit ; and in truth he was
disposed to take a good deal of credit to himself
at this time. He was quite astonished when
Heriot said to him one day, ' Merely as a
matter of curiosity, I should like very much to
know whether you are playing a deep and
skilful game, or whether you really have the
simplicity to imagine yourself a martyr.'

He stared for a moment, and then answered
quietly, ^ That is a hard speech to make about
any man, Heriot. I understand what you

mean ; but I don't know that I have ever given
you the right to suspect me of being such a
miserable humbug.'

Heriot flushed slightly. He was conscious
that his irritation had led him into saying more
than he ought to have done, and he apologised.
But I can't help thinking it a pity that you
should have taken up this particular line of
conduct,' he added. ' It would have been so
simple to go away.'

I would have gone away if it had been
necessary,' Vidal said ; ' but it is not necessary.
I saw plainly enough, the first day, that she
didn't care a rush for me. Yes, I know — I
remember what you said at Lucerne. It is just
possible that she might have come to care forme
in the long run, if I had tried to make her.
Well, I haven't tried.'

Oh, but, my dear fellow, the passive way
of trying is so much worse than the active ! '
returned Heriot, half laughing.

The young man turned away nth a gesture
of impatience. ' I wish to Heaven you would
let me alone ! ' he exclaimed. ' You said you
wouldn't lecture me any more. The long and
the short of it is that I cant go away yet. You
think she may be piqued into loving me because
I draw back from her ; but you don't understand.
I believe she is perfectly well aware of
how things are With me. She doesn't care.
You can see for yourself that her spirits haven't
suffered.'

Now, it was precisely because he thought
that her spirits had suffered that Heriot had
allowed himself to be provoked into breaking
his self-imposed silence ; but, not choosing to
say this, he shrugged his shoulders and walked
away.

This colloquy had taken place in the garden
at Cardrew ; and after his friend had left him,
Vidal sat down upon a bench and thought.
Hitherto he had tried to steer a course midway

between duty and inclination, and, oddly
enough, had succeeded after a fashion ; but
now he began to see that success of that kind
could not be permanent. He was young ; he
was suffering from the torments of unrequited
love ; he felt the imperious craving for happiness
natural to one of his years, and his sanguine
nature was for ever whispering to him that happiness
was not unattainable. He had a struggle
which lasted for five minutes, and left him somewhat
pale. Then — ' I'll go,' he said softly, and
rising up, walked towards the house.

His intention was to burn his ships by
giving out forthwith that he was obliged to
leave Polruth on the morrow ; but when he
entered the hall, he found everybody too busy
to listen to him. For it had been arranged
that a long-deferred visit to Tintagel should
take place that day and just now luncheon-baskets
were being packed, and details discussed
amidst the clamour which accompanied all

movements of the Irvine family. Vidal listlessly-looked
on their preparations from the background.
Clare, looking cool and fresh in a
pale-blue print dress, was moving about among
her brothers, lending a helping hand here and
there, and did not seem to have noticed his
arrival. An unreasonable anger took possession
of the young man as he watched her. Was
she so pitiless, then ? Didn't she see how he
suffered ? Knowing that he loved her, was it
nothing to her whether he declared his love or
not ? There was a good deal of the spoilt child
in his composition, and he thought, ' Well,
perhaps when I am gone she will be sorry — at
least for a time.'

Presently the carriages came round to the
door, and a dispute arose as to the distribution
of the party, from which also Yidal held aloof.
Let them settle it among themselves, and put
him where they pleased ! Upon the whole, he
would rather prefer not to be in the same

carriage as Miss Irvine. Nevertheless, he was
not very sorry when Mr. and Mrs. Irvine,
Heriot, and Charley got into the landau and
where driven away, followed by a small waggonette
containing the younger boys nd the
luncheon. The only remaining vehicle belonging
to the establishment was, as he knew. Jack's
dog-cart, which it was evident that Clare, Bob,
and himself were to share with its owner.

I hope you don't mind the back seat,
Vidal,' said the latter. ' Of course, you are
very welcome to drive, though, if you'd rather.'

Thanks,' answered Vidal, laughing, ' but I
have made it a rule through life never to drive
another man's horses in his presence, and the
back seat will do me very well.' He was
foolish enough to feel a thrill of pleasure at the
prospect of passing his last few hours of comparative
happiness in such close proximity to
the object of his hopeless passion.

The dog-cart was some time in making its

appearance, and Jack began at length to grow
fidgety. ' Bob said he would put the mare in,'
he remarked ; ' but I don't believe he has the
slightest idea of how to set about it ; and there's
nobody to help him. Perhaps I had better go
and see what he is doing.'

However, at this moment Bob, beaming
with satisfaction and flourishing his whip, pulled
up at the door with a dash. 'Stow, you needn't
look at the gear in that suspicious way,' he
said, ' because it's all right. Do you suppose I
never harnessed a horse before in my life ? '

Well, you've done better than I expected,'
Jack confessed, after making a few alterations
and helping his sister into her place. ' Now
then. Bob, give me the reins and jump down.'

Jump down, indeed! ' returned Bob loftily.
*Not exactly! No, my dear boy, you jump
up. You are going to have the honour and
pleasure of being piloted by me to-day.'

Nonsense, Bob ! don't play the fool,' said

Jack, with some impatience. 'We've got a
long drive before us, and I don't want to waste
time. Come ! — hand over the reins.'

Beati presidents,' replied the other placidly,
without moving. 'You won't turn me
out without a fight for it, I can tell you.'

A fight would undoubtedly have ensued
then and there if Clare had not intervened.
'Let him drive for once. Jack,' she pleaded.
He won't be with us much longer, you know,
and he will promise to be very careful — won't
you, Bob ? '

I am always careful,' Bob affirmed ; ' but
to-day I shall surpass myself. And look here,
Jack : if I damage the beast I'll buy you
another as soon as ever I can save up enough
money. There ! I can't say no fairer than
that.'

And how about our funeral expenses ? '
inquired Jack. But as he was a very good-natured
young man, he made no further objections,

and scrambled up beside Yidal, to
whom he remarked, with a sigh, ' If I had only
foreseen this, I should have insisted upon your
driving. But it is just wildly possible that we
may pull through without a smash.'

This was very consolatory. Vidal, remembering
that a life far more precious than his
own was being placed in jeopardy, inwardly
commended the adventurous Bob to the devil ;
but it was hardly his part to enter a demurrer,
so he smiled, and held his peace.

They were driven at a quiet pace down the
park ; though, on turning out of the gates, the
trap gave a lurch which caused Jack to draw
in this breath sharply. ' For the love of Heaven,
man,' he exclaimed, ' don't take yom corners
like that ! Try to recollect that we're on two
wheels, not four.'

You're onh^ fit to be trundled about upon
one,' retorted the other. 'A wheelbarrow is

the conveyance for you. Never saw such a
nervous chap as you are in my life.'

And with that he gave the mare a cut with
the whip, which made her throw herself into
her collar and accomplish the next quarter of a
mile at a speed that called forth some subdued
remonstrance from Clare. Then, more by good
luck than good guidance, they passed a couple
of carts without a collision, and turned off the
high road into a narrow lane.

'Now,' said Bob exultantly, ' 111 show you
the short cuts.'

Jack groaned. ' It's no use protesting,' he
said to Yidal. ' Sit tight, and let us pray that
we may be upset in a soft place.'

Or that we may not be upset at all,' suggested
Vidal.

Oh, that's past praying for. And. by
George ! here's a flock of sheep. Now he'll
run us up that bank — I know he will ! '

The prophecy was hardly uttered before it

was fulfilled. The dog-cart swayed, balanced
itself for a moment on the off wheel, and then
turned over with a crash, sending its occupants
flying into the opposite ditch. Fortunately,
the fall was so gradual that nothing about
them suffered, except their clothes and their
dignity. Vidal, after standing on his head for a
minute, struggled into an attitude more convenient
for making observations, and found that
his companions were already erect. Clare was
replacing her hat, which had fallen off; the
two young men were standing over the ruins of
the cart ; and up a distant hill the mare, who
had kicked herself free, could be seen galloping ,
with the broken shafts dano^lino^ at her sides.

This,' remarked Jack sadly, ' comes of
letting a sailor drive.'

Bob tilted his hat over his eyes, scratched
his head, and looked crestfallen. * I'm awfully
sorry,' he said ; ' but it was the sort of thing
that might have happened to anybody. I don't

VOL. I. N

suppose I should have done it if you hadn't
flurried me so ; but I saw we were going to
foul the bank, and I believe I made a mistake
and took a haul at the port rein instead of the
starboard. I'll pay for the damage,' he added
ruefully.

Wait till you know what it is,' returned
Jack. ' I shouldn't wonder if the mare were to
kill herself.'

Happily, however, this apprehension proved
to be unfounded ; for Bob had not yet started
in pursuit when a labourer appeared leading
the runaway animal. He had caught her, ashe
affirmed, at the risk of his life, and demanded
adequate remuneration.

And now,' said Jack, when this businesslike
person had been dismissed, ' the question
is, what are we to do ? '

I know what / am going to do,' answered
Clare, laughing ; ' I am going to make the best
of md way home.'

But we must manage to let the others
know what has become of us somehow, or they'll
think we've broken our necks. Bob, the least
you can do is to follow them and tell them of
your success. I suppose you can hire a trap
of some kind in Polruth — and somebody to
drive it for you. — What will 3'ou do, Vital
It's a pity you should miss seeing TintageL'

But Yidal answered, with perfect truth, that
he didn't care very much about Tintagel, and
Bob scouted the idea of returning to Polruth
and searching about for a conveyance. 'I'll
foot it,' he said. ' I can cut across country,
and I shall catch them up before they have
done half the distance.'

And without more ado he set off at a
slinging trot, being perhaps not unwilling to
testify in some measure to his penitence.

N 'Z

CHAPTEE X.

A SUMMER AFTERNOON.

Thus it came to pass that circumstances for
which he was in no wise responsible placed a
conscientious man in a quandary. Jack, who
had to see about getting the wreck of his dogcart
transported to Cardrew, evidently took it
for created that Yidal would walk home with
his sister ; and, indeed, no other arrangement
seemed possible. Yet Yidal could not but
perceive that such a proceeding would be
fraught with the gravest peril. What he
feared just now was not so much that the betrayal
of his passion in words might call forth
some response, as that the faint hopes which he
still cherished might be crushed out of him by

a point-blank refusal. Indeed, he felt convinced
that this calamity must inevitably befall
him if he spoke ; and yet he knew himself well
enough to be aware that to spend the remainder
of the day with Clare and to hold this peace
would be a task so difficult as to be well-nigh
impossible. Recognising, therefore, the dangers
that threatened him, he wisely determined to
see her as far as the lodge, and there bid her
farewell. The necessity of packing up for an
early start the next day would give him a
sufficient excuse for returning to his lodgings.

But Yidal, like the rest of the world, was
a better hand at forming resolutions than at
carrying them into effect ; and when Clare and
he had reached the entrance to Cardrew, he
had not yet so much as announced his impending
departure. Up to this point the walk
had not been exactly an enjoyable one. There
had been an uncomfortable feeling of restraint
on both sides which had made the way seem

long ; yet, although the young people had kept

up conversation with some difficulty, and had

said nothing that was not absolutely flat and

commonplace, they had been exchanging

thoughts through some more subtle medium

than that of speech, and Vidal was no longer

able to take a dispassionate view of the situation.

He understood that Clare had been asking him

the whole time what was the matter with him ;

and he had answered, ' The matter is that I

adore you, and that I must not say so.' Now,

while he held the gate open for her to pass

through, she said, after a momentary hesitation,

Will you not come up to the house ? Jack

will be back soon, and we can give you a

luncheon of some sort.' And Vidal, feeling

that all strength of purpose had gone out of

him, let the gate swing back, murmuring,

rather foolishly, ' Oh, thanks — if I shan't be in

the way.'

Every now and then — not often, of course ;

still, every now and then — it happens to most
of us to make up our minds that we will do
the things that we ought not to do ; and on
those rare and delightful occasions such of us
as are vise at once kick conscience overboard.
For if one cannot do wrong without suffering
from pangs of remorse the whole time, it is
surely better to stick to the dull path of duty,
and preserve at least one's self-respect, A
certain merry cardinal, now no more, once
found himself at a great dinner in Eome during
Lent. There was fish for him, and there were
vegetables, and of these he partook freely,
getting what comfort he could out of them
and maintaining a cheerful countenance. But
when a haunch of venison made its appearance
his brow became clouded with care ; for his
soul, like the soul of Isaac, loved venison, and
he could not bring himself either to let the
dish pass or to indulge his appetite. If he had
only neglected the fish he might have stretched

a point and allowed himself a little meat for
his stomach's sake ; but to eat both fish and
flesh at one and the same meal was what no
ecclesiastic could do without falling into sin.
For some moments the conflict which was
raging within him was visible by outward signs
to his neighbours; then, breaking into a jolly
laugh, '- Basta ! ' he exclaimed, ' mi confessed V
So he swallowed the venison and enjoyed it,
and, let us hope, duly performed penance the
next day. Yidal had this in common with his
Eminence, that he neither deceived himself nor
repented at the wrong moment. As soon ashe
had yielded to temptation his heart grew
lighter, and he thought, ' Well, since this is to
be my last day with her, it shall be as happy
a one as I can make it.' He let himself go ;
he began to talk, without first thinking of
every word that he said ; and Clare's spirits
also seemed to rise in sympathy with his ;
so that, before long, the cloud which had

arisen between them of late was all but dispelled.


In due course they discovered that they
were hungry ; and then they had luncheon
together in the dining-room, which seemed
strangely silent and empty with only two
people seated at the long table. One of them,
at all events, desired no addition to their
number, and longed only for time to standstill.


Do you know, I am very glad you let Bob
drive,' he could not help saying ; and Clare did
not ask him why he was glad, but only laughed,
and blushed ever so slightly.

They had finished their meal before Jack
came in, apologising quite needlessly for having
been so long, and explaining that he had had
a great deal of trouble in finding somebody to
bring the cart home. When he had stayed a
vigorous appetite, he proposed a cigar and a
game of billiards to his guest, who replied that

he didn't want to smoke, and that it would bea
sin to stay indoors on such a fine afternoon.

We might have a knock-up at lawn tennis,
then,' suggested the innocent Jack.

All right, if you like,' answered Vidal ;
but don't you think it's too hot to run
about?'

'But we can't lie on our backs in the
garden till dinner-time,' remonstrated the other.

Oh, I don't know,' said Vidal ; ' I think I
could. — What shall you do, Miss Irvine ? '

Clare replied that she meant to sit out in
the shade somewhere ; and then, to Vidal's
great relief. Jack said, ' Well, if you don't mind,
I think I'll just stroll down to Polruth and see
if I can't find out something about the otter-hounds.
I heard they were to meet near this
next week, and I should like to show you an
otter-hunt, Vidal, if you've never seen one.'

In this way Vidal's destiny led him into
pleasant places. Sitting on a bench in the

shade, with the object of his adoration beside
him, with the shimberous murmur of insects in
his ears, and with all the sunny landscape
stretched out before him till it dropped abruptly
to meet the blue Atlantic far beneath, he
surrendered himself to the bliss of the passing
moments, and began to realise what is so
seldom realised by mortals, the delight of living
in the present. Only to watch Clare, to
listen to her, to meet her eyes every now and
again, was enough, and he almost forgot that a
morrow was coming which would find him
journeying towards London and duty. At any
rate, if some suppressed consciousness of this
sad fact was in his mind, he would not suffer
any hint of it to pass his lips, thinking, very
sensibly, that it would be time enough to say
what must be said when the others returned
from Tintagel.

But, considering the condition of mind that
he was in, this and all other matters that he might

desire to conceal were evidently at the mercy of
hazard. His colloquy with Clare was not continuous,
but was broken by irregular intervals of
silence more dangerous than speech. During one
of these Vidal glanced at his neighbour, whose
hands were lying idly m her lap, and who was, to
all appearance, plunged m profound meditation.
She remained so long without stirring that at last
he could not refrain from asking softly, ' What
are you thinking about, Miss Irvine ? '

She started, smiled, and made the reply
which is usually made to that absurd question,
Oh, about nothing particular.'

If she had answered quite truthfully, she
would have had to say, ' About you ; ' but not
being disposed to submit to further cross-examination,
she uttered the meaningless phrase above
recorded ; and, by way of changing the subject,
followed it up with a question on her own
score : ' Are you writing another book ? '

Oh yes,' answered Vidal ; ' that is my

trade, you know.' He had wondered more than
once why, during the whole time that he had
been in Cornwall, Clare had never said a word
to him about his literary pursuits ; but, to be
sure, he had given her little opportunity for
doing so.

There was another short pause before she
resumed : ' Is it to be like the last?'

I hope not,' answered Yidal, with a laugh.
The last didn't give universal satisfaction, as I
dare say you are aware.'

Didn't it ? ' said Clare ; and then, rather
hesitatingly, ' Do you mind my saying that I
didn't like it very much ? '

I don't mind in the least,' replied Vidal,
who, however, minded a good deal. ' No one
knows better than I do that it was a dull
book.'

'Oh, it was not that ; it was extremely
clever, I thought — only of course I am no
judge. But — but is it quite true? Do you

think people are really as bad as you make them
out ? '

' I should say they were — quite,' answered
Vidal. 'The fact is, that I didn't know I
had painted humanity at all particularly
black.'

'You painted London society very black,
at all events. And there were no nice people
in the book — at least no nice women.'

I thought some of them were rather nice
in their way,' said Vidal.

In truth, he had tried to make them so ;
but as he had drawn most of his characters
from real life, and had not, perhaps, penetrated
much beneath the surface of their real lives,
their defects had been rendered more prominent
than their virtues.

'You seem to have no belief in women,' pursued
Clare. ' You seem to think that they are
all deceitful and vain and greedy, and that the
things which they covet most in the world are

plenty of money and plenty of admirers. I
don't think that is the truth.'

'Oh, but indeed,' cried the young man
eagerly, ' you are doing me a great injustice — or
else I must have expressed myself very badly — if
you think that is what I meant. I was writing
about a particular class, and I never thought of
passing such a sweeping censure, even upon
that class. I took what I believed to be types
of it, that was all.'

• And is your heroine a t^-pe of it ? '
Which do you call the heroine ? '
I supposed she was the heroine ; at all
events, there is more about her in the book than
about anybody else. I mean the wretch who is
in love with the hero, and who refuses to leave
her husband, whom she hates, because she
can't bear to lose her money and her position.'
Yiclal felt a little uncomfortable. He
remembered certain passages in his book which
he would just as soon that Miss Irvine should

not have read, and he understood that what
appeared to him to be a temperate enough
picture of modern society might easily strike
her as an abominable libel. ' I am afraid such
people do exist,' he said at length.

Perhaps they do. There is Lady St.
Austell, for instance — and I have heard of
others. But surely they can't be so numerous
as to be typical.' She paused for a moment,
and then gave utterance to the phrase which
has made domestic criticism so appalling to
many a writer. ' You say fashionable women
are like that,' she remarked ; ' but— how do
you know they are ? '

Now, Vidal's past career, if not absolutely
immaculate, would have borne looking into
quite as well as that of the generality of young
men who have lived in the world ; but he was
not prepared to tell Miss Irvine the exact
means by which he had arrived at his knowledge
of a certain variety of feminine character.

So he answered, ' Oh, well, a good deal of it
is hearsay, of course. One must be guided in
some degree by hearsay.'

The effect of this admission was eminently
satisfactory. ' I should not have thought that
hearsay was a very safe guide,' Clare rejoined ;
but it was plain that the writer's chief offence
in her eyes had now been removed. ' By-and-by,'
she added, ' you will think me very
presumptuous for saying all this ; but I have
wanted for such a long time to ask you
whether you really meant what I fancied you
did ; and I am so glad that you don't.'

One writes of what one sees and hears,'
Vidal said. ' Perhaps I have had rather too
much of the atmosphere of London. If I had
been near you — I mean, if I had been living at
Polruth when I wrote that book, it would have
been a very different production.'

And the next one will have been partly
written at Polruth, will it not r I hope, from
VOL. I.

your saying that, that you find the atmosphere
of Cornwall aspiring, and that you won't be ina
hurry to leave it.'

I must leave it,' returned the young man
abruptly. ' 1 am going away tomorrow.'

What made him come out with this blunt
statement, and add no single word of explanation
to it, he hardly knew ; but it may be that
he was not wholly innocent of a dramatic
intention. He was looking down when he
spoke ; but presently he stole a glance out of
the corner of his eye, and saw that Clare
appeared not only startled but displeased.

We shall all be very sorry to lose you,'
she said, rather coldly ; ' but it is natural that
you should be bored here.'

Bored ! ' exclaimed Vidal. ' But you can't
think that. I have never been so happy in my
life as during these last three weeks — yes ; in
spite of everything, I have never been so
happy ; and perhaps I shall never be so happy

again. I would give ten of the years that I
may still have before me to stay another month
at Polruth— if I dared.'

If you dared ? ' repeated Clare, with raised
eyebrows.

Yes — if I dared. Don't you understand?
I know you understand. I have been here too
long as it is. Heriot said I ought never to
have come ; and perhaps he was right. I
didn't mean to tell you this ; but you'll forgive
it, I hope, now that I am going away so
soon.'

Why must you go ? ' asked Clare in a low
voice.

He broke into a short laugh. ' Why ?
Because I have only six hundred a year in the
world, and because if I had six thousand you
wouldn't care for me.'

Clare made no answer ; but she looked at
him, and her eyes spoke a language which
could not be misinterpreted.



Lector dilectissime^ you have been young,
possibly you are young still. It may be that
you are yet conjugating the verb aware in the
present tense, indicative mood, active and
passive voices, whereas some of us have long
since got on to the past tenses, and even to the
conjunctive moods of these. But to whichever
category you may belong, you must be aware
that there are circumstances under which
prudence ceases to be either possible or desirable,
and you will therefore readily understand
how it came to pass that Jack Irvine, sauntering
homewards from the village, became aware
of two figures seated in the garden above him,
and was presently astounded to see them draw
closer together and lose distinctness of outline
in a close embrace. Jack was a young man
who possessed some clearness of mental, as
well as of physical vision, and his comments
upon what he had witnessed were brief and to
the purpose.

By George ! ' he exclaimed aloud, after a
protracted whistle ; ' there'll be a row in the
house this journey, and no mistake ! I don't
believe the fellow has got enough to keep
himself; and who the deuce was to suspect
what he was after all this time ? Why, he has
hardly spoken a dozen words to her since he
has been down here ! Pretty bad form, I must
say, keeping thugs dark like that.'

Then, as he did not wish to play the spy
any longer, he turned away and marched off in
the opposite direction, with his hands in his
pockets, meditating mournMly.

CHAPTEE XI.

Dreams.

Possibly Jack Irvine, whose notion of a desirable
brother-in-law was that such a person
should be the owner, at the very least, of a
country house and good shooting, may have
been over-ready to assume that the requirements
of his parents must necessarily be the
same as his own, and that they would at once
refuse to listen to any suitor in Vidal's circumstances.
Be that as it may, the ' row ' which
he had foretold never came off. Poor Mrs.
Irvine could not pretend to be very much
pleased when Clare followed her into her bedroom
that night and there made confession of
what had occurred during the afternoon ; but

she neither reproached her daughter nor forbade
the engagement. She had always been
too kind-hearted to cherish schemes which
were not compatible with the happiness of
others, and although a son-in-law who, like
Mr. Wilbraham, possessed money and lands, as
well as influence in high quarters, would naturally
have been more to her taste, it was not in
her to reject Vidal merely on account of his
poverty. So she only sighed, and said, ' I
think he might have spoken to your father first.
It would have shown better feeling if he had.'

But he did not mean to speak to anybody,'
Clare urged. 'He meant to go away tomorrow
morning without saying a word ; and
I suppose he would have gone and there never
would have been any explanation at all, but
for that fortunate accident. I shall always feel
grateful to Bob for upsetting us out of the dogcart.'


He must never be allowed to do such a

thing again ! ' cried Mrs. Irvine quickly — as
though a repetition of the catastrophe might
be expected to bring about a second improvident
marriage. ' How Jack ever trusted him
with the reins I cannot understand ! But it is
all very surprising to me. Oh, I don't mean to
say a word against Mr. Yidal. I liked him
from the first ; and he is certainly very handsome
and clever ; only somehow he is not at
all the sort of man whom I should have expected
you to choose. And it is a pity that he
should be so badly off ; isn't it ? '

Yes, I suppose so,' assented Clare ; ' but
that is no fault of his ; and, you know, we shall
not be married for ever so long — not until he
is making more money.' Then she put her
arms round her mother's neck and kissed her.
I am sorry, mamma,' she whispered. ' I
know it is a disappointment, and you are very
good about it. I did try to accept Mr. Wilbra-
ham, and I thought perhaps I should be able

to do it, until — until that time at Lucerne.
Then I knew that it was not possible.'

At Lucerne ! ' ejaculated Mrs. Irvine. ' Do
you mean to say that it began so long ago as
that ? Well, in a sort of way, that is a relief ;
for I don't feel now as if I had been so much
to blame in persuading him to come down
here. Now, my dear child, you need not pulley
cap off, because I really am quite fond of
Mr. Vidal, and from what you tell me, I have
no doubt that he tried to do what was right —
only these things will happen, in spite of all
precautions. I will talk to your father about
it, and we shall see what he says. I can't
promise that he will give his consent, you
know.'

But Clare knew very well that Mr. Irvine's
consent was precisely what her mother could
safely answer for at all times, and she had no
fears as to the result of a formal appeal to the
head of the family. It seemed almost unfair

to take advantage of such simplicity ; and,
indeed, this was very much the feeling that
Vidal had when he was summoned to the old
gentleman's study the next morning, and was
received as affectionately as if he had been a
millionaire.

I am sure that you will make Clare
happy,' Mr. Irvine was kind enough to say ;
and my wife tells me that you are sincerely
attached to one another. That is the essential
thing — no doubt that is the essential thing.'

I think it is,' Vidal said. ' But,' he added,
with a smile, ' I am afraid most fathers would
consider it only one of the essentials ; and I
wanted to say, Mr. Irvine, I hope you understand
— that I intended to keep silence until I
had a rather larger income to offer. It wouldn't
be true to say that I regret having spoken ; but
I do feel that I ought to be scolded. You are
all much too kind and generous.'

Oh, you mean about the money ? ' Mr.

L^vine said, rather vaguely. ' Yes ; i\Irs. Insane
was telling me. Six hundred a year — it isn't
much, certainly. I suppose one couldn't live
upon six hundred a year, could one .^ '

The question was so evidently asked in
perfect good faith that Vidal laughed outright.
I believe people do hive upon even less than
that,' he replied ; ' but a very small income
entails sacrifices which perhaps you would
hardly like your daughter to put up with. I
hope to be better off before long, and even now
I make from about a hundred to a hundred
and fifty more than the fixed sum that I have
named ; still it would unquestionably be more
prudent for us to wait awhile before thinking
of marriage.'

Then he laughed again ; for he could not
help being a little tickled by the whimsically
of his preaching prudence to his prospective
father-in-law.

Mr. Irvine remained grave, and rubbed his

head with an air of perplexity. ' The question
of money,' he observed confidentially, ' is
always a troublesome one. I used to think
that I was pretty well off; but nowadays what
with education and allowances, and one thing
and another, there are so many payments that
I am apt to forget how I stand — at least, until
I get my pass-book from the bank. But
certainly we ought to help — oh yes ; we shall
be able to help, to some extent ; and although

it may not be as much as we could wish '

He broke off, and then asked, almost apologetically,
' Upon how little, now, do you think
it could be done ? '

Vidal hesitated ; and indeed the question
was not a very easy one to answer.

'Well,' resumed Mr. Irvine, 'I suppose a
thousand a year would be the least. As you
say, people do, no doubt, marry upon less ;
but we should not like to think of Clare being
in difficulties. Let me see : six and four make

ten — four hundred, i'm ! ' He pinched his
lower Hp between his finger and thumb, and
looked up with an appealing expression of
helplessness. 'Well, I'm sure I don't know,'
he said. ' Possibly some means might be
devised But perhaps,' suddenly brightening
up — ' perhaps you had better consult Mrs.
Irvine.'

All this was by no means what Vidal had
anticipated, and it affected him with a mixture
of gratitude and compunction. Who would
ever have supposed that there were such disinterested
people in the world ? He felt almost
inclined to say, ' But, my dear, good sir, you
don't know the rules of the game. It is only
when your daughter marries a rich man that
you are required to make handsome settlements.
If she takes a fancy to a pauper, your
course is to point out that you can't afibrd to
allow her anything ; and then the match is
broken off. You will be behaving very magnanimously

by merely giving a conditional
assent to our engagement.'

He did not make this speech at the time ;
but he did afterwards say something of the
kind to Mrs. Irvine, who laughed at him. Did
he flatter himself, she asked, that it was for
love of him that they wished to make their
daughter comfortable? And if they could
spare a few hundreds a year (it would not be
four hundred, she was afraid, but it might be
three ; and surely the harvest of Mr. Vidal's
pen would suffice to make up the deficiency)
if they could spare this money, how could
it be better spent than in averting the ordeal of
a long engagement ?

I abhor long engagements ! ' the good
lady went on. 'For the man it is all very
well, because being engaged doesn't interfere
with any of his amusements ; but the poor girl
is in a wretched position. Young men fight
shy of her, and the other girls generally laugh

at her in their sleeves, and declare that it will
never come to anything. And most frequently
it does not come to anything, as I could prove
to you by many instances in ray own experience.
But now, what I was thinking was
this. In London, a thousand a year doesn't
go far. You would be just able to keep your
heads above water, no doubt, and you would
have enough to eat and drink ; but you couldn't
attempt to go into society — and that makes life
so dull for young people. But supposing that
you were to take a house down here in Cornwall
— and I know of several within reach that
might do — there is the house that old ]airs.
Tregenna used to live in, near St. Ives, for
instance, and plenty of others — well, then, you
see, you could live quite cheaply, and you
would be able to keep a conveyance of some
kind, and you could go about and see your
friends. And the quiet of the country, too —
such a boon to a Literary man ! Then, as to

the furnishing, that could be managed at a
very small cost. We should take our time
about it ; we should attend sales ; and Mr.
Irvine would be of the greatest use to you in
picking up unexpected bargains ; for he knows
every curiosity dealer in the West of England,
not to mention that he has endless oak chests
and chairs and things stowed away in an outhouse,
because we haven't a corner to put
them in. I really do believe that, with a little
time and trouble, we could furnish your house
almost for nothing.'

It will be seen that Mrs. Irvine's first feeling
of chagrin had quite disappeared, and that she
was looking forward to her daughter's marriage
with that delight which an opportunity of
arranging other people's affairs for them always
afforded her. ' What do you think ? ' she concluded
anxiously.

I think you are the kindest people I ever
met or heard of,' answered the young man.

Of course there is no necessity for our living
in London, and I am sure you are right about
the money going further here than there. My
only doubt is whether I should be at all justified
in accepting so much from you.'

But it is Clare who accepts it, not you ;
and when you are rich, as I am sure you will
be after you have written another book or two,
she need not take it any longer. Didn't I hear
of somebody who had been paid five thousand
pounds for a novel ? And a novel could not
take much more than a year to write, I suppose ;
so there is five thousand a year at once.'

Perhaps it was hardly worth while to dispute
the trustworthiness of this off-hand calculation ;
and indeed Mrs. Irvine (who had never read a
syllable of Vidal's writings) had by this time
quite convinced herself that the mantle of
Dickens or Thackeray or George Eliot — it did
not much matter which — had fallen upon the
shoulders of her future son-in-law.

VOL. I. p

So it came to be an understood thing that
Yidal and Clare, instead of waiting for an indefinite
period, were to be married in the
autumn, and this arrangement was fortunate
enough to meet with an approval which was
practically unanimous. Jack, while regretting
that his sister should not have done better for
herself and her family, admitted that, if she
must needs wed a poor man, she couldn't have
chosen a better fellow ; adding, as the result of
his observation, that when you had made up
your mind to marry any particular person, you
had best look sharp about it.

But Jack, to be sure, had not been consulted
about the matter. Heriot, who had,
was less accommodating. ' Long engagements
may be open to all the objections that you
urge,' was his reply to Mrs. Irvine's representations
; ' but I cannot see that there is any need
for hurry in the present instance. Just now
they are ready to consent to anything ; and no

doubt this part of the world strikes them as
being a sort of garden of Eden ; but it is probable
that one of them will think differently
before very long; and then it might come to
pass that you would regret having been so precipitate.
Delightful as Cornwall is, it is not
exactly the place of residence for a man who
proposes to make his living by studies of
modern life and character. Besides, they are
both young, and they have known each other
only a very short time. I really don't think
that waiting a year or so would do either of
them much harm.'

It seems to me that you want the engagement
to be broken off,' cried Mrs. Irvine
irritably; for what she had applied for was
approval, not advice.

Adrian Yidal is about the most intimate
friend I have in the world,' answered Heriot,
and I hope you know how I feel towards all

p 2

of you. I have no more sincere wish than that
both Clare and he should be happy.'

This somewhat ambiguous response satisfied
Mrs. Irvine, who returned, in a tone calculated
to silence further opposition, ' Then let them
be happy in their own way.'

For the time being, at all events, their
happiness was complete. Their movements
and their meetings were free from restriction of
any kind, and, except in the shape of some
derisive raillery on the part of the boys, they
incurred no penalty for withdrawing themselves
from the daily amusements of those about
them. Whether, in the course of their protracted
rambles, they learnt to know one
another better, may be doubted, since they
were both under the glamour of love; but
their mutual admiration increased — which was
perhaps a more desirable thing. As for Yidal,
he could hardly believe in his good fortune,
and told Clare as much one day.

It seems too good to be true,' he said.
To think of it ! Only a few days ago I was
keeping myself alive upon a vestige — a mere
vestige — of hope ; just a little peradventure
which I wouldn't allow common sense to rob
me of, though it tried hard. And now ! — it is
like a dream.'

She gave his arm a slight pressure, by way
of proving that she was a substantial reality ;
and presently, looking up into his face, she said,
'Adrian, if I ask you a question, will you
answer me ? '

Of course I will.'

But truly, I mean — as you would answer
if anybody else asked you.'

Certainly — if I can.'

She paused for a moment, drawing some wildflowers
which she had gathered through his
button-hole, and then pulling them out again
and throwing them away.

Well ? ' said Yidal, smiling down upon her.

Well, then — do you think that love lasts
for ever ? '

He answered 'Yes.' Perhaps no one,
situated as he was, would or could have made
any other reply ; but it must be said for him
that he believed himself to be speaking the
truth. Love of the kind about which she was
inquiring is a passion which may, in extreme
cases, survive marriage by as much as a couple
of years, but which far more frequently begins
to fade after a few months of conjugal felicity ;
and of this abstract circumstance Vidal was just
as well aware as the rest of the world. But
then he knew that to every rule there are a few
exceptions ; and how could he doubt that their
love for each other was of an exceptional kind?
Had any two people ever loved so devotedly
since the world began ? It did not seem likely.
So he said ' Yes ' with a quiet mind, and
emphasised his assertion in the customary
manner.

But she drew a little away from him. ' You
said just now that it was like a dream ; and I
am afraid it is a dream — it must be ! Life
can't really be so beautiful. And don't you
think — don't you think that some day you may
wake up ? ' She went on. without giving him
time to reply, ' It is so with other people : one
can't help seeing it. Men have a sort of affection
for their wives — something like friendship,
if they happen to get on well together. But I
don't want that — I wouldn't have it — 1 would
almost as soon that you hated me ! Oh,
Adrian, if you ever cared for anyone else as
you care for me now, I think I should die ! '

There was such a strange look upon her
face, and she spoke with so much vehemence,
that the young man was startled. ' Why,
Clare,' he said, ' what has put such notions into
your head ? Care for anyone else as I care for
you ! Don't you know that that is utterly impossible
? '

All sorts of impossible things happen she
answered, more quietly, and with a certain
shamefacedness, ^ and all sorts of horrid
thoughts come into one's mind. But one ought
not to speak them out. Please forget that I
said that, Adrian

But he did not forget it. He remembered
the speech afterwards when he was alone, and
the look that had come over the girl's face as
she uttered it, and he said to himself — not
without reason, it may be — that he was unworthy
of such love. Those few words were in
some sort a revelation to him ; for he was
quick at interpreting signs of character, and he
perceived what he had hitherto only half suspected,
that Clare's was one of those deep and
strong natures which surrender themselves
wholly when they surrender at all, and which
will be satisfied with nothing short of complete
surrender in return. Well, if it were so, there
was no need for disquietude.

Love is not love
TSTiicli alters when it alteration finds,

Or bends vrith the remoter to remoTe ;

nor would Clare ever have reason to complain
that she did not hold the first place in his
thoughts. She was not one of those unreasonable
women who will quarrel even with that
measure of allegiance which an artist owes to
his art.

CHAPTEE XII.
heriot's wedding present.

The happy summer-time stole on with scarcely
a cloud, material or metaphorical, to dim its
brightness. Every now and again a heavy
shower would sweep in from the westward,
converting the steep streets of Polruth into
running watercourses for half an hour or so ;
but this year the elements seemed to have
entered into a conspiracy to make two lovers
happy ; and day after day the sky and the sea
were blue, and the rocks and islets of the coast
slept in a golden haze, while Clare and Adrian
wandered about together, repeating the old
phrases which never suffer by repetition, while
the boys, giving up this couple as hopeless,

reverted to their ordinary pastimes, and while
Mrs. Irvine scoured the county in search of
eligible residences.

If there was a gloomy face in the household,
it was that which rose above Heriot's bowed
shoulders. He had congratulated his friend,
and had said all that was pretty and appropriate
to Miss Irvine ; but he had not managed
to conceal from either of them the misgivings
which he felt with regard to this marriage, and
it was but natural that they should resent his
unspoken disapproval. Therefore the news of
his approaching departure was not greeted with
that general chorus of protest which he was
accustomed to hear annually from his hospitable
friends at Cardrew. Mrs. Irvine, however,
was loud in her reproaches.

You have never given us less than a
month before,' she exclaimed, ' and it is too
bad of you to run away like this, just when I
am in need of somebody to consult with. I

know you think me a silly old woman for
wanting to keep Clare near us ; but that is no
reason why you should deprive me of the
benefit of your advice now that the thing is
decided upon ; and I am sure no one who has
not had to look about for houses can have any
idea of how difficult it is to find what you
want. As for those two, I can't move them to
take the slightest interest in the matter. They
say that anything with four walls and a roof
will do, and that they are quite content to
leave it to me — which is so absurd ; because it
is they, not I, who will have to live m the
house. Well, I must do the best I can. I
suppose we shall see no more of you now until
next summer.'

Oh, you haven't quite seen the last of me
yet,' answered Heriot, with a laugh. ' I have
been asked to stay with the St. Austells, and I
dare say we can contrive one or two meetings

before I leave Cornwall. So that the blow
will be softened.'

He did not add that the spare room at
Cardrew might very possibly be coveted by
one who had a better right than he to occupy
it ; although this was one of the reasons which
had led him to hasten his leave-taking.

Adrian made no comment upon the subject,
one way or the other ; but that evening, when
he had bidden the family good-night and was
setting off for his lodgings, Heriot surprised
him a little by saying, ' I think I'll just walk
down with you, Adrian, and smoke a pipe
before I go to bed.'

All right,' answered the young man.
Come along, and I'll give you a ,
or whatever it is that your doctor allows
you to drink.' But he was not very much
delighted ; for he thought, ' Now I'm in for
another lecture ; ' and it seemed to him that it

was rather too late in the day to deliver or
listen to lectures.

However, Heriot did not seem to have very
much to say, after all. He walked almost in
silence from the house to the village, and afterwards,
at Yidal's lodgings, sat smoking for half
an hour with a preoccupied air, and replying in
monosyllables to the remarks addressed to him.
It was only when he had risen to go that he
came to the point.

You are to be married some time in
the autumn, I suppose,' he said, somewhat
brusquely.

'I believe so. Nothing is absolutely settled
yet.'

Yes ; — well, I wanted to say that I'm
afraid I shan't be able to come to the wedding.'

Why, my dear fellow,' exclaimed Adrian,
I was counting upon you to do best man.'

Ah, I had the vanity to imagine that
perhaps you might honour me so far ; and that

is why I thought I had better beg you at once
to ask somebody else. I am sure you won't
accuse me of unfriendliness ; but, you see, my
health is so uncertain — and in the autumn I
generally have to move south — and — and
altogether, I am afraid I shall have to content
myself with being with you in the spirit when
the day comes.'

He spoke with some hesitation and embarrassment
; and Vidal, perceiving that these
excuses were not genuine, was the least bit in
the world offended. But he answered crowds
enough, ' Just as you think best,
old chap. We shall all miss you, of course ;
but if you're in Egypt, you can't be in Cornwall,
that's certain.'

Neo ; just so — that's it, you see,' said
Heriot ; ' and if I am not quite as far off as
Egypt, I may very likely be on my way there ;
so that it would be best not to reckon upon
me. And, Adrian,' he added, producing an

envelope from his pocket, and still speaking in
the same flurried, uncertain manner, 'I thought
I would take this opportunity of giving you
my wedding present. I have ventured to put
it in the coarse and practical form of a cheque ;
because one wishes one's friends to buy what
they will like, and how am I to know what
would please a young lady ? '

Adrian took the envelope, and mumbled
his thanks after the usual fashion. But it
appeared that Heriot had still something to
add, ^ It's — it's for a rather larger amount
than one generally gives as a wedding present,'
he said ; ' but I hope you won't mind that, and
that you'll take it as it is meant. You know,
I have more money than I can spend, and it
occurred to me that furnishing and setting up

house and all that Besides which, I have

my doubts about this Cornish establishment. I
think it will have to be London, most likely.

after all ; and then, perhaps, a few extra tables
and chairs, you know, might come in useful.'

I couldn't accept more than a certain
amount, Heriot,' said Vidal, somewhat alarmed
by this incoherent explanation.

Well, it isn't more than a certain amount,'
returned Heriot sharply. ' Don't be silly ; I'm
not offering you a fortune. Xow good-night ;
and may you never need a friend to help you
out of trouble to the end of your days. But if
you ever should, you know where to apply.'

So the two men shook hands, and Heriot
made for the door. But on the threshold he
halted again absolutely. 'Look here, Adrian,'
he said ; ' I don't want to preach, but the old
Adam is strong in me, and I must say one
word. You are going to marry a girl who has
had no experience of life whatsoever. She
knows nothing, Literally nothing about it, and
when she goes to London she will hear and see
many things which she won't like. Well, you

YOL. I. Q

are prepared for that, no doubt ; still it may
make you impatient at the time. Don't be
impatient with her, and don't let her lose faith
in you. Because, although she can easily be
made happy, she can also be easily made unhappy,
and I don't think she can very easily
forgive.'

Vidal nodded and smiled. The advice
might be a little superfluous, but doubtless it
was well meant. After Heriot had gone, he
opened the envelope and found that it contained
a cheque for 1,000/.

CHAPTER Ni.

LADY ST. Russell.

By far the greatest man in the neighbourhood
of Polruth was Sydney George, third Earl of
St. Austell and eighth Viscount Blaise ; but his
local greatness was due rather to the fact that
he owned nearly the whole of the surrounding
district than to any personal qualities that he
might possess ; for of these not much was
known to Cornish folk. He spent but a very
short time out of each year at Blaise Castle,
having estates in other parts of England which
he preferred ; and diu-king that short time his
tall, bony figure, his hook nose, and purple
whiskers were seldom exhibited to an admiring
tenantry. In London, on the other hand, as

well as at Newmarket, Melton, Cowes, and
other resorts of fashionable society, he was, if
not great, at all events famous. All his lifelong
he had gone in lavishly for every form of
amusement which costs money ; and although
he had been, upon the whole, successful on the
turf, the racing stud which he still kept up in
his old age must have swallowed a very much
larger annual amount than it returned. He
had, however, always been wealthy, and was
moreover declared by those who had reason to
know to be an exceedingly sharp man of business.
It is probable that the sums which he
lost at play during the early years of the
century were not so enormous as was currently
reported.

But, indeed, many reports were current respecting
this old nobleman which, if looked
into, might have been found to be untrue or
exaggerated. Fame, when once she takes to
blowing the trumpet of any individual with

regard to some special quality, is apt to blow
so loudly that false notes must needs come out
every now and then ; and just as all witty sayings
used to be attributed to Sydney Smith,
and most solemn platitudes to poor Benjamin
Franklin, so Lord St. Austell, having established
a reputation for phenomenal wickedness, had
fathered upon him many crimes of which he
was, perhaps, innocent. The balance might
have satisfied him ; for in truth there was
hardly a vice in the exercise of which he had
not shown himself an adept ; but if any unfounded
accusations were brought against him,
it was not he who would think of refuting or
complaining of them. He was well aware that
he passed for being the greatest sinner in
England, and though he never boasted of his
bygone iniquities, he took an intense silent
delight in the name that he had earned for
himself. A sceptic as to religion, and a cynic
as to morality, he had devoted the whole of his

long life to the one object of gratifying ibis
persona] desires, and had never stepped aside
to serve a friend or to avenge himself upon a
foe — neither of these ends being, in his opinion,
calculated to repay the trouble of achievement.
Why such a man should have been popular it
would be rather hard to say ; for he possessed
no single virtue, except that of physical courage
; but that he did enjoy popularity of a
certain kind is undeniable. He had been three
times married. His first two wives, it was said,
had succumbed to his fascinations, as a great
many other people's wives had done, had
married him out of pure affection, and had
died broken-hearted on discovering that other
people's wives interested him considerably more
than his own.

The third and last Lady St. Austell had not
accepted the coronet offered to her from any
such motives, and was in no danger of incurring
so melancholy a fate. It might have seemed

like a piece of poetical justice that this old
reprobate should have found himself at the end
of his career linked to a partner many years
younger than himself, whose flirtations were
common talk ; but Lord St. Austell, as it happened,
was quite cognizant of his wife's peculiarities,
and didn't care a bit. She amused
him ; which was more than either of her predecessors
had been able to do. He took a
malicious kind of pleasure in watching her, in
seeing how far she would venture to go, and in
condohug with her when she failed — as she
occasionally did — to capture the particular
admirer whom she coveted. Sometimes he
succeeded in making her angry by leading her
to the glass and pointing out that she was
growing stout and losing her complexion —
which was great fun. Sometimes, too, he
frightened her ; and that was better fun still.
He knew very well that she would never overstep
the thin boundary-line which separates

mere indiscretion from downright folly. Perhaps
he would not have minded very much if
she had ; but he liked to let her feel, from time
to time, that he had the whip hand of her, and
would crack the whip for the satisfaction oi
seeing her scared.

After all, he knew very little about her ;
for they were seldom together. He thought
her a silly sort of woman, and so, no doubt,
she was ; but he had not troubled himself to
examine closely into her character, nor had he
any suspicion that she was in reality a philosopher
of his own school. Heriot, who had
been all his life acquainted with this thoroughly
egotistical, yet unamiable lady, found her an
even more amusing study than her husband
did. If he had no very profound esteem for
her, he could not help liking her ; and she, on
her side, honoured him with something as
nearly approaching friendship as her nature
could compass. Heriot was not a man with

whom it was possible to flirt ; so she had long
fallen into the habit of treating him as one
outside the pale of the emotions and excitements
for which she lived, and was wont to
confide to him, with delightful candour all
the details of these. Her emotions were
genuine ; she had learnt the trick of stimulating
them. Fortunately, they were also shallow,
and did not ' delve the parallels on beauty's
brow,' which she dreaded more than anything
else in the world. i\.s the sense of humour
was developed in her to a greater extent than
is common among women, Heriot and she
sometimes had an unexpected laugh together,
which refreshed them both.

Almost the first thing that she said to him,
after he arrived at Blaise Castle from Cardrew,
was, ' You find me in the depth of despair. I
don't know when in my life before I have felt
so miserably low-spirited.'

Dear me ! ' said Heriot. ' Has anything

happened to Charley, or Jimmy, or whatever
his name was ? '

'Johnny. Johnny Spencer. You know
what a charming young fellow he was. Always
so cheery and pleasant and '

And so devoted to you. But why do you
speak of him in the past tense? Is he
dead?'

Lady St. Austell sighed. ' No ; but I am
sorry to say that I have had to marry him to
an heiress. It has left me very much depressed,
though the match was an excellent one as far
as that goes, and you can easily understand
how it became necessary. He was beginning
to be so disagreeable that I felt things couldn't
go on much longer as they had been doing.'

The emphasised pronoun referred to Lord
St. Austell, whom her ladyship was often
pleased to represent as a jealous tyrant.

You will have to get another,' said Heriot.

Ah, no ! I shall never be as fond of

anyone again as I was of him. Why do you
laugh? I suppose you think yourself much
wiser than I am because you have never chosen
to advance a step beyond friendship with any
woman. Well, you are wrong. You miss the
greatest blessing of existence.'

Very likely. But as Nature has treated
me rather unkindly in the matter of features,
and as my health won't allow me to be a
marrying man, perhaps I may be consulting
my peace better by letting love alone.'

What on earth has marriage to say to the
question ? Or features either, for that matter ?
You might spend some very happy hours, if
you chose ; but you don't choose, because you
are afraid of losing your peace. Well, I grant
you that your peace would have to go for a
time ; but supposing it did ? Is peace such
a treasure ? If peace were all one wanted,
one might as well be an old cow at once. I
don't recommend you to fall in love with a

girl, for girls naturally think about establishing
themselves, and you are well off; but surely
among your acquaintances you might find some
married woman whom you could care for.'

Wouldn't that be rather immoral ? ' asked
Heriot.

Certainly not. You are not going to call
me immoral, I hope ? Xow, you know how
perfectly innocent all my little affairs of that
kind have been. Disinterested too — as I have
proved by my behaviour in Johnny Spencer's
case. I have never tried to keep myself from
indulging in a Platonic love for anyone towards
whom I have felt dra^vn, and I never will. Do
you think that does them or me any harm?
Harm ! — why, it does us the greatest possible
good. It brings out all the noblest qualities
of our characters ; it enables us to forget the
dreary boredom of everyday life ; and, for my
own part, even if the individual doesn't happen
to care for me, I am always glad to have the

power of feeling such a pure and delightful
emotion.'

In other words, it is the emotion that you
love, and not the individual.'

Well, I love the individual for giving me
the emotion. Believe me, there is nothing else
in life that is worth the trouble. I have tried
most things, so I can speak with some authority.
Do you know, I remind myself very
much of a character in a novel that I was
reading the other day, called " Society," or
some such name. Have you seen it ? '

If you mean " Satiety," answered Heriot,
it is by a friend of mine, a man named Vidal
who is in Cornwall at this moment.'

You don't say so ! ' cried Lady St. Austell,
with quickened interest. ' Is he young ? Is
he good-looking? Is he the sort of person
whom one could ask to one's house ? '

He is young, he is good-looking, and he
is the sort of person who would be calculated

to reflect credit upon this hostess,' replied
Heriot gravely. ' Also he is engaged to be
married. His future wife is the only daughter
of my friends the Irviness.'

I should like to meet him all the same,'
said Lady St. Austell pensively. 'So he is
going to marry that pretty Miss Irvine, is he ?
He might amuse me Do you think he would
amuse me ? '

I dare say he would,' answered Heriot ;
only, as he is engaged '

Yes, yes, I know ; don't be absurd. We
will have the Irviness to dinner one day next
week. I don't much like the old lady, because
she always bothers one so for subscriptions, but
Ave really ought to show them some civility.
Now I come to think of it, I believe we haven't
asked them to dinner for two years.'

The result of this conversation was that Mi's.
Irvine received a friendly note the next morning,
in which Lady St. Austell congratulated

her upon her daughter's approaching marriage,
and begged her, as well as Mr. and Miss Irvine,
to 'join a few friends at dinner ' on the following
Thursday. ' And we shall be so glad,'
continued the writer, ' if you can persuade Mr.
Vidal to come with you. Please tell him that
he needs no introduction to me, for I already
know him through his very clever book, which
I have read with the greatest interest.'

Now this is most fortunate ! ' exclaimed
Mrs. Irvine, after reading the above sentences
aloud and laying down the note upon the
breakfast table. ' I was just wondering how I
could manage to get hold of Lord St. Austell,
and put in a word for those poor fishermen.
I am a little bit afraid of him, I confess ; but it
would never do to let such an opportunity slip.
Of course we must accept. You will come,
won't you ? ' she added, turning to Yidal, who
was now staying in the house.

Oh, certainly,' he answered. He had not

been insensible to Lady St. Austell's flattering
reference to himself, and was rather surprised
when Clare confided to him afterwards that she
had hoped he would decline.

Why ? Would you prefer to be without
my company ? ' he asked, smiling.

You need not ask that question,' she replied
; ' but don't you think it was rather
impertinent of her to invite you in that way ?
It sounded as if — as if '

'As if what? *

Well, as if she only wanted you to come
because you had written a book that amused
her.'

Vidal laughed. 'But, do you know,' he
said, ' I don't find that an insulting reason. Of
course, you and I are aware that my acquaintance
is an inestimable boon in itself ; but we
can't expect Lady St. Austell to have discovered
that, since she has never been fortunate enough
to see me. If reading my book has given hera

desire to see me, why shouldn't she say
so?'

I am sure you won't like her,' said Clare.
She is a horrid old thing, who makes herself
up with powder and paint, and has very disagreeable,
artificial sort of manners. Even Mr.
Heriot, who never will say a word against any
of his friends, admits that she is bad style.'

However, Yidal was unable to admit the
justice of this criticism when he found himself
face to face with the subject of it. The lady
who received him at Blaise Castle was certainly
not old, nor — so far as could be seen in the dim
light — was she painted ; and if her manner was
artificial, it was far from beinor disagreeable.
She had a vivacious little face, with bright eyes,
a retrousse nose, and very red hips. It was not
exactly pretty, but it was decidedly attractive.
Her figure had probably been prettier some
years back : it was now somewhat too full for
beauty.

VOL. I. R.

These details lie noted as he followed the
Irviness into a spacious room, full of people.
Lady St. Austell did not detain him, having
other guests to welcome, and being more alive
than her husband was to the advisability of
keeping upon good terms with the squirearchy.
The ' few friends ' of whom she had spoken in
her note of invitation in reality comprised every
decent person who dwelt within a twelve-mile
radius of the Castle, and it was easy to foresee
that the impending dinner would be as long and
dull as such overgrown entertainments always
are. Yidal, who at this particular period of
his life had eyes for only one person, was not
interested in the assemblage, and found the
conversation of the lady whom he subsequently
took into the dining-room extremely tedious.
The same causes which prevented him from
doing justice to the company interfered with his
appreciation of the dinner, which was nevertheless
an excellent one ; for Lord St. Austell

was not the man to put up with indifferent
cooking.

I'll tell you what to eat,' Vidal heard him
saying confidentially to the stout dowager who
sat on his right hand. ' Put yourself into my
hands, and you needn't be afraid of taking
anything that will disagree with you. I suppose
you are like me, and suffer from a fit of
gout every now and then, don't you? You
look as if you did.'

Lord St. Austell had a peculiarly rude
way of saying rude things when he was in a
bad humour, and country dinner parties always
put him in a bad humour. His neighbours
were very much afraid of him, and indeed he
looked a sufficiently terrible old man, sitting
there, at the end of that long vista of fruit and
flowers and priceless china, like a living
memento mori in the midst of so much luxury.
His pallid visage, his unnaturally black whiskers,
the eye-glass which gleamed when the fight fell

k2

upon it, and the long teeth which gleamed
always, preached as pithy a sermon and diffused
as effective a chill around him as any
mummy at an Egyptian feast could have done.
When he spoke (he had a high-pitched, ringing
voice), everybody stopped talking and quaked ;
because it was impossible to tell what dreadful
thing he might not be going to say ; and if
there vas an episode in your past life which
you desired to bury in oblivion, you might be
pretty sure that Lord St. Austell had heard
about it, and would not neglect a chance of
referring to it.

At the other extremity of the table things
were more cheerful. Of Lady St. Austell no
one had need to be frightened ; and although
she may have been quite as much bored as her
husband, she did not avenge her wrongs, as he
usually did, upon the first person who came to
hand, Found about her, therefore, there was
a brisk cackle of voices and laughter which

spread to a certain distance. Clare, sitting
about midway between the gaiety and the
gloom, had for neighbour a young man who
informed her that he was staying in the house
and hardly knew a soul at the table. He
appeared anxious to correct his ignorance — ■
having, perhaps, some difficulty in finding
topics likely to interest a country-bred maiden
and she enlightened him as to the names and
residences of his fellow-guests, which pretty well
exhausted all that there was to be said about
them. But when he inquired who the fair-haired
man opposite was, she answered, colouring
slightly, and not without a certain intonation
of pride, ' That is Mr. Yidal.'

You speak as if he were the show man of
the district,' remarked her questioner.

He does not live here,' replied Clare. ' He
is the Mr. Vidal, you know.' Indeed, she supposed
that every person of ordinary education
must have heard of this celebrated author.

Oh yes,' said her neighbour vaguely,
very stupid of me ; but somehow that doesn't
seem to convey much idea to my mind. Who
is The Vidal when he's at home ? '

'He is the Mr. Vidal who writes. But
perhaps you don't read books,' said Clare, with
a touch of disdain.

Well, not very much. I read the papers ;
and. as I am an idle man, that is almost all I
can find time for. What is Mr. Vidal's Hne ?
Science, history, travels, or poetry ? Poetry, I
should think, by the look of him.'

He writes novels,' answered Clare. ' That is,
he has written one ; but he has been a contributor
to the best magazines for some time, I believe.'

Oh, novels ? Then I may make acquaintance
with his productions some day. I
like a good novel — only it must be a good
one. Why te Melville's, for instance : Whyte-melville
knew what he was writing about.
Some of these authors — upon my word, 1

can't think where they find the cheek to
publish their rubbish! Why, only the other
day, as I was coming down here, I bought a
novel to read in the train, and in the very first
chapter I came to something about pheasant-shooting
in September. Well, I thought
perhaps that was only a slip of the pen. I said
to myself, " Don't let's be too hard on the
poor chap," and I read on. But, if you'll
believe me, I hadn't got through a dozen pages
before I came to a yachting scene where the
hero is represented as beating up a narrow
channel against the wind, and singing out to
his skipper to gybe ! Well, now, you know, I
do call that just a little bit too bad. I don't
pretend to criticise grammar or style ; but it
does seem to me that a man ought to have
some elementary knowledge of his subjects
before he sits down to write a book.'

I don't think Mr. Vidal makes such mistakes,'
said Clare.

Doesn't he ? You seem to take great
interest in him. Well, I dare say he's a clever
fellow, and he's good-looking enough, anyhow.
I suppose that is why our revered hostess has
been making eyes at him ever since we sat
down.'

The poor man meant no harm. He could
not tell that his fair neighbour was engaged to
Mr. Vidal, and he was a good deal taken aback
when she turned upon him with sudden fierceness,
exclaiming, ' Making eyes at him ! I can't
believe that even she would be so — so disgusting
as that ! If you are a friend of hers, you ought
not to say such things about her.'

Clare's own eyes were flashing, and her
cheeks had become pink. Her interlocutor,
who began to have an inkling of the state of
affairs, could not help answering maliciously,
As I am a friend of hers I know her little
ways, and I can assure you that she is a most
dangerous person. When she makes eyes at a

man, it is generally all up with him. But you
need not feel alarmed about Mr. Vidal. He
doesn't know what an impression he has produced
; he hasn't even glanced at her. Perhaps
he has found some one more agreeable to
look at.'

Clare perceived that she had made herself
ridiculous, and was proportionately ashamed ;
but, although she immediately changed the
subject, she did not succeed in banishing it
from her mind. During the rest of the dinner
she was preoccupied and uneasy, and afterwards
in the drawing-room, when she saw
Lady St. Austell bearing down upon Adrian,
she felt that painful constriction of the heart
which only a swift pang of jealousy can produce.


The law of oiu* being, which throws us
poor mortals upon the world with certain
hereditary tendencies, infirmities, defects, and
so on, and leaves us to make the best we can of

the imbroglio, had not spared Clare Irvine anymore
than it has spared the humble writer and
the respected reader of these words. Like the
rest of us, she was imperfect, and it must be
confessed that the sweetness of her disposition
was somewhat marred by what, after all, is not
so much a vice as a misfortune. Jealousy is no
more to be fought against than the toothache
the utmost that can be accomplished in the
case of either malady is to conceal it ; but
what adds bitterness to the former is that those
who suffer from it are as often as not aware
that their sufferings are wholly irrational.
Nothing, for example, could have been more
absurd upon the face of it than that Clare
should object to see a man who adored her
conversing for a matter of ten minutes with a
stout lady whose charms were on the wane,
and whom he might very probably not encounter
a second time in the course of his life.
Yet she did object ; and, indeed, it was perhaps

just as well that she could not overhear the
dialogue which was taking place at the end of
that long and dimly-lighted room.

'Mr. Vida; Lady St. Austell began, 'I
have a crow to pluck with you. I want to
know what you mean by putting me into a
book.'

I don't think I need defend myself against
that accusation, Lady St. Austell,' answered
Vidal ; though he knew what she meant, and
was secretly pleased that the fidelity of his
sketch should have been recognised. ' How
could I have written about you when I have
never had the happiness of meeting you until
this evening ? '

You must have heard of me, then — from
Mr. Heriot, perhaps. Oh, I assure you I know
myself when I see my face in the glass ; I have
no illusions. The lady in your novel is a portrait
of me, and a very unflattering portrait too.
Well, I will forgive you if you will make

haste and write another book as amusing.
But now, tell me, why do you attack women of
the world with such acrimony ? What have
we done to you that you should be so severe
upon us ? '

I dare say your shoulders are broad enough
to bear my attacks,' answered Vidal, smiling,
and then bethought himself that he might have
hit upon a happier phrase ; for, in truth. Lady
St. Austell's shoulders had lost the gracefulness
of proportion that they had once possessed.

But she went on, without heeding him,
You quarrel with our ways of killing time ;
but you don't seem to consider that time must
be killed somehow, and that we haven't so
many means of doing that as you have. T
suppose you are like all men : you believe that
the world was created for you, and that we
were only put into it as an afterthought.'

The Book of Genesis lends some support
to that theory,' observed Vidal. ' At the same

time, I should be an ardent upholder of women's
rights if I could only find out exactly what
they were. What I do venture to contend for
is that both men and women might find something
better to do with time than to kill it.'

All, yes ; that has been put into rhyme,
hasn't it ? Teach the orphan boy to read, and
teach the orphan girl to sew,' &c. &c. Praiseworthy,
but not exciting; and excitement is
what we require. You take care to have
plenty of it for yourselves, I notice ; only you
can't admit that your wives and daughters may
have the same cravings that you have. What
a fortunate thing it is that most of you have a
blind faith in your own wives and daughters,
and that, unless they are very stupid indeed,
they can always manage to amuse themselves
without letting you into their secrets I How is
it that you don't understand that human nature
is human nature all the world over ? '

All women are not alike,' remarked Vidal.

They are more alike than you think for,
perhaps. Just now, I know, there is one
woman whom you consider immeasiu-ably
superior to the rest of us, and I don't wonder
at that. She is very pretty, and probably very
charming too, when you know her. Tell me
about her ; I like listening to lovers' rhapsodies.'


It may be taken for granted that Lady St.
Austell did not really enjoy a form of conversation
which has never yet been found enjoyable
by man or woman ; but she spoke with a
certain appearance of sincerity, and drew rather
nearer to her companion, smiling up into his
face and throwing back her head, with a slight
inclination to one side, in a way that she had.
Her closed fan just touched his coat-sleeve ;
the diamonds in her hair and about her neck
dazzled the eyes of the young man, who, if the
truth must be told, was a little bit flattered at
having been singled out for so conspicuous a

share of his hostess's attentions. He did not
rhapsodise, as he had been requested to do, but
he tried to be agreeable and to say some clever
things ; and possibly he succeeded. At any
rate, the colloquy lasted for some time ; and
Clare, watching it all, felt her soul disquieted
within her.

Out of the four people whom the Irviness'
carriage bore away into the night, shortly afterwards,
one was silent and depressed, one was
sleepy, and two were highly elated.

I have got ten pounds out of him,' Mrs.
Irvine was saying triumphantly. 'It isn't
handsome, considering what his income is ; but
with his name to head my hist I shall do tolerably
well, I hope, and really he was not nearly
as uncivil as I expected him to be. Lady St,
Austell was most friendly. She said such nice
things about you both, and she is coming over
to luncheon some day soon. You and she have
arranged it all, have sou not, Adrian ? '

She told me she was anxious to explore
Polruth/ answered Vidal. ' It seems that she
has seen very little of her husband's property
in these parts, and she wanted to know whether
I would show her all the objects of interest ;
but I said I thought Clare was more capable of
undertaking that task than T.'

If Lady St. Austell discovers any objects
of interest in Polruth, it is certain that I shall
not be one of them,' observed Clare ; but
Adrian did not notice the dryness of her intonation.


'The chief object of interest to Lady St.
Austell, in Polruth or elsewhere, will always
be Lady St. Austell,' he rejoined, laughing;
but I confess that she is an object of interest
to me too. I found her very entertaining, and
there is an absence of humbug about her which
rises almost to the level of a virtue.'

I have always thought that there was a
great deal that was nice in her,' said good-natured

Mrs. Irvine ; ' and although she has
not been particularly neighbourly until now, I
shall be very glad if she likes to begin.'

But in this expression of kindly feeling Mrs.
Irvine was not seconded by her daughter.

VOL. I.

CHAPTEE Xii.

ANGLING.

If Clare was foolish enough to have been
jealous of Lady St. Austell, on account of what
she considered the flirtation that had taken
place between that frivolous lady and Adrian,
she was at least not so unjust as to impute any
blame to the latter. Following the custom of
her sex, she blamed the woman, and felt no
anger against her lover for having caused her
to pass some unhappy hours. But indeed she
blamed nobody very long ; nor was it possible
that she should entertain any serious misgivings
as to Adrian's constancy. He, for his part,
was far too deeply in love to waste many
thoughts upon Lady St. Austell. He made no

reference to lier on the following day, and,
before twenty-four hours were over, she and
her projected visit to Polruth had passed entirely
out of his mind.

It so chanced, however, that Lady St.
Austell had not forgotten Mr. Yidal. She had
taken a fancy to the young author, partly
because she had made up her mind beforehand
to like him, partly because he was handsome,
and partly also because he was neither in love
with her nor likely to become so. She had
filled her house with a set of people who bored
her, and she complained bitterly to Heriot that
she didn't know how to get through the day.

Very seldom before have I felt so dejected,'
she said. ' I have an idea that it might do me
some good to drive over to Cardrew and see
your friend Mr. Yidal. You shall come with
me, and keep the Irvine family engaged in conversation
while I take him out for a walk.
Would you mind ? '

s2

Not in the least,' answered Heriot : • but
it seems just possible that Miss Irvine might
mind, and I am not sure that Yidal himself
would enjoy the walk as much as he ought todo.
Hadn't you better wait until he is married ?
You will find him much more diverting company
then.'

But I want to be diverted now,' objected
Lady St. Austell. ' His wedding won't take
place before next Wednesday, I presume, and
on that day, I am thankful to say, we go to
Scotland. If you really think the girl would
be so absurd as to dislike my taking perchance
out for a walk, I won't do it. Or she can
accompany us if she chooses. My own belief
is that they will all be rather annoyed if I donec
pay them a visit ; because I promised that I
would, and you know how huffy people who
live in remote places always are when one
breaks an engagement.'

I would undertake to make your peace
with them,' said Heriot drily.

'Well, the fact is that I have just sent a
note to Mrs. Irvine, asking her if she will have
me to luncheon tomorrow. I told her I
should bring you with me ; so I am afraid we
can't get out of it now.'

Heriot smiled. He had noticed Clare
Irvine's face on the night of the dinner party,
and had been sorry for what he had seen there.
It was easy enough to forecast the future of
such a woman ; easy enough to guess what inevitable
troubles must be in store for her ; and
impossible — at least to this old and faithful
friend— not to deplore them in advance. But
Lady St. Austell was scarcely a person to be
dreaded. Yidal was not in her world, and her
memory of the absent was not very retentive.
Moreover, she was certain to have picked up
some unattached admirer before she could
meet him again.

It was, therefore, with tolerable equanimity,
though without much hope of spending a
pleasant day, that Heriot heard, on the morrow,
of the receipt of a favourable reply from Mrs.
Irvine, and seated himself beside his hostess in
the mail phaeton which was to convey them
to Cardrew. Lady St. Austell, who drove as
fast as she talked — which is saying a good deal
accomplished the distance in excellent time,
and took the whole burden of the conversation
upon herself. When the slate roofs and the
pale blue smoke-wreaths of Polruth came insight,
she declared that she already felt better.

It is the atmosphere of Blaise that weighs
me down so,' said she. ' Everybody is dull
there — even you, if you will excuse my saying
so. I observe that you are much more cheerful
when you are with the Irviness than you are
with us. They shall cheer you up this afternoon
; and if only Mr. Yidal can manage to do

as miicli for me, I shall be eternally grateful to
him.'

But perhaps Mr. Yiclal was not anxious to
possess that claim upon Lady St. Austell's
gratitude ; for hardly had Mrs. Irvine finished
welcoming her guests when she made an announcement
regarding him which amused one
of them a good deal more than it did the other.

'Two of our party have deserted us,' the
unsuspecting lady said. ' Clare and Adrian —
Mr. Yidal, you know. Well, of course that is
very natural, and one is glad that they should
enjoy themselves together — especially as the
boys tease them so whenever they are within
reach. To-day they have taken their lunch
with them, and I believe they are going to fish
the trout-stream up fi^om the sea ; though
whether they will catch anything is another
matter. But I dare say they won't mind, and
Adrian said he was sure they wouldn't be
missed.'

Heriot chuckled in his beard ; but if he
expected Lady St. Austell to exhibit any signs
of mortification, he was disappointed. Lady
St. Austell had her countenance well under
command, and was also a woman of considerable
readiness.

'Mr. Vidal is too modest,' she answered.
I shall miss both him and your daughter very
much ; but I don't mean to go away without
seeing them. I have never caught a trout in
my life, and I adore new sensations. Mr.
Irvine,' she added, bringing an engaging smile
to bear upon Jack, ' will you be good-natured
enough to take charge of an ignorant woman
this afternoon, and show her how to throw a
fly ? Then we might all walk up the stream
together. '

With the greatest of pleasure, Lady St.
Austell,' answered Jack ; ' only you can't throw
a fly into that stream, because it is so overgrown.
However, if you will condescend to a

grub, I'll do my best to show you some sport.
It's rather rough walking, though ; I don't
know whether you mind that.'

Lady St. Austell declared, quite truthfully,
that she minded nothing that gave her amusement
; and added, with a shade less of truth,
that she felt sure of having that, since Mr.
Irvine had so kindly consented to be troubled
with her.

This speech put Jack, who was not much
accustomed to be sought after by fascinating
countesses, upon excellent terms with himself,
and caused him inwardly to resolve that Lady
St. Auster should have the use of his own rod,
instead of Bob's, which, in view of probable
contingencies, he had originally destined for
her. During luncheon he talked a good deal,
and flattered himself that he displayed all the
graceful ease of a man of the world, while the
lady for whose sake this brilliancy of dialogue

was being displayed listened with every appearance
of interest.

Whatever may have been the impression
that Jack produced upon her, it is certain that
she produced a most favourable one, not only
upon him, but upon all the other members of
his family. No one could have been more
agreeable ; and she found an opportunity of
saying something pleasant to everybody —
having, indeed, long ago discovered that it is
scarcely more difficult, and a great deal wiser,
to make friends than enemies.

No sooner was she out of the dining-room
than she expressed her intention of proceeding
to the stream forthwith. ' No, my dear Mrs.
Irvine, you must not think of coming with mein
this heat. I couldn't hear of such a thing —
it would make me quite miserable ! No ; you
shall sit here quietly and talk to Mr. Heriot,
who, I know, has heaps of things to say to you ;
and Mr. Jack — may I call you Mr. Jack .? It

saves confusion, doesn't it ?— Mr. Jack will look
after me.'

So presently this resolute lady, who was
appropriately equipped for fishing in a pair of
the thinnest French boots and a charming costume
of pale pink cambric, trimmed with yards
of lace, was seen tripping across the slopes of
the park with her chosen protector by her side ;
and Heriot, watching them from the window,
burst into an abrupt laugh, which he declined
to explain when called upon to do so.

In the meantime Adrian and Clare were
having a perfectly happy time of it together.
They were not catching many fish, it is true ;
but then it had not been for the sake of catching
fish that they had absented themselves
When Lady St. Austell's note had arrived,
Clare had, indeed, exclaimed, 'Oh, what a
bore ! Xow we shall not be able to try the
trout-stream ; ' but she had been rather surprised
by the promptitude with which Yidal

had returned, ' Wliy not ? It would be a capital
excuse for getting out of her way, and we
aren't bound to receive your mother's guests.'
She had not supposed that he would have been
anxious to get out of Lady St. Austell's way ;
but in truth he would, at that time, have been
anxious to get out of the way of anybody who
had threatened to deprive him for a few hours
of the only society for which he cared. So
these two went off together in the best of spirits,
and, starting from the sea, progressed slowly
upwards, conscientiously fishing every pool,
and only allowing themselves a respite of perhaps
an hour and a half in which to consume
the sandwiches that they had carried out with
them.

The stream — which dropped in a succession
of tiny cascades and miniature rapids from the
heights of Cardrew to the shore — was of tolerably
respectable volume when swelled by the
winter rains, but after so dry a summer as this

had been, was reduced to the dimensions of a
mere rivulet. To an enthusiastic angler, therefore,
it would have seemed to leave much to
be desired ; but, on the other hand, a pair of
lovers might very well be content to clamber
up its mossy banks, to rest awhile under the
thick shade of the trees which bordered it, or
to seat themselves upon one of the overhanging
boulders beneath which the little trout congregated.
Adrian and Clare hooked three of
these, and threw them back again to grow
larger ; but as the afternoon went on, they got
no more bites, and agreed at last that it was
absurd to expect any fish to look at a grub in
such bright weather.

This point being decided, they felt entitled
to take their rods to pieces and enjoy themselves
after a less laborious fashion. Sitting under
the overruling boughs, through which stray
shafts of sunlight flickered, sometimes interchanging
remarks which it would be cruel to

transfer to the hard black and white of a printed
page, and sometimes Hastening in contented
silence to the babble of the brook and to all
those subdued stirrings and rustling which make
the charm of the woods in summer-time, they
were wholly obvious of the existence of Lady
St. Austell, who was nevertheless drawing nearer
to them every moment, and brushing her way
through the undergrowth with a recklessness
that might have brought a sardonic smile to the
lips of her dressmaker.

Her ladyship very soon had enough of Jack,
and paid no heed to his entreaties that she
would remain among the higher pools, and spare
herself so much needless exertion. ' If we goon
much farther we shall come upon those two
idiots,' he said discontentedly, ' and then it will
be all up with mischance They are sure to
have gone splashing about and scaring the fish,
and besides, there's no use in trying places that
have been tried all day.'

But Lady St. Austell, though good-humoured,
was inexorable. ' Sometimes the least likeliest
place is more likelier than the most likeliest,'
said she, quoting from an old number of Punch.
We will go on till we find the two idiots, as
you politely call them, and then we can begin
to retrace our steps.'

And find them she did. She found them,
indeed, so suddenly that they started a couple
of yards apart with great haste, and looked exceedingly
red and foolish. The little lady in the
pink dress, who stood smiling down upon them,
with her rod in her hand, was not at all put
out of countenance.

See how indiscreet I am ! ' she cried.
Your brother has been imploring me not to
thrust my company upon you ; but I delight
in doing the things that I ought not to do, and
I really think you both deserve some punishment
for running away from me after promising
to show me all the beauties of Polruth. Mr.

Vidal, I am glad to see that you look ashamed
of yourself. Never mind ! I know you are a
privileged person just now. I only wanted to
demonstrate to you that you can't escape me
by concealing yourself in a thicket, and having
done that I will take myself off.'

But, of course. Lady St. Austell could not
be allowed to depart in this way. The delinquents
made such apologies as seemed
necessary, and one of them was more eager to
clear himself of the charge of having run away
than perhaps he need have been. It is always
disagreeable to be caught with your arm round
a lady's waist. However beautiful and refined
that lady may happen to be, and however
legitimate • may be the attitude, there is an
apparent vulgarity about it which is both distressing
and humiliating. Yidal thought he
had better try to efface the recollection of what
she had seen from the intruder's mind ; and it
was with this pardonable object that he set to

work to divert Lady St. Austell, and presently
offered to show her a spot whence she might
drop her line with some prospect of success.
It was not at all his intention to walk away
with her, and leave Clare and Jack behind ;
yet that was the result of his unfortunate proposition,
which was at once accepted.

'I told Mrs. Irvine that I was going to
catch trout,' Lady St. Austell remarked, ' and I
suppose it is my duty to catch one if I can. I
haven't the most distant idea of how to set
about it ; but I will try to be a docile pupil.'

It took Yidal some five minutes to conduct
his pupil to her post and to bait her hook, and
during these five minutes the two remaining
members of the party thought fit to disappear.
When Yidal noticed their absence, he began to
wish that he had been a little less precipitate in
offering his services ; but he could not very
well shout after them, and any regrets that may
have been visible upon his face were at once

VOL. I. T

banished thence by a remark of his companion's,
who had been watching him with much amusement.


I hope I haven't got you into a scrape,'
she said. ' I really didn't mean to take you
away from Miss Irvine. Will she be very
angry with you ? '

Of course not,' replied Yidal, who did not
much like the question. ' Why should she
be?'

Oh, there is no reason why she should be ;
but girls are apt to be exacting. Perhaps you
think other people are rather exacting too,
without so good an excuse. That is only too
true, I am afraid ; still, I don't see how I could
have sat and talked to Mrs. Irvine all the afternoon.
Please overlook the offence for this once,
and it shall not be repeated.'

Vidal said what nobody could have helped
saying in answer to such a speech, and said it
in all sincerity. For choice, he would rather

not have been interrupted ; but since the
interruption had taken place, he did not mind it
much. It was a flattering thought that Lady
St. Austell should have torn an exquisite gown
to shreds for the please of seeing him ; and
one may find a woman very pleasant company
without having the faintest disposition to flirt
with her. Xor did she say a word to him that
might not have been spoken in the presence of
a dozen witnesses. Every now and again she
threw him a languishing look ; but that was
only her way — she would have done the same
thing, from mere force of habit, if she had been
talking to her own grandfather — and all the
time she kept dropping her line into the water
with a splash that ought to have been enough
to terrify any fish.

It has, however, been observed before now
by many a patient angler, as well as by toilers
in other fields, that people who know nothing
at all of what they are about often meet with a

T 2

success beyond their deserts ; and so it proved
in Lady St. Austell's case. All of a sudden,
some reckless denizen of the pool took it into
his head to swallow the bait held out to him,
and the consequence was what might have been
anticipated.

Good gracious ! ' she exclaimed, ' I have
caught a whale ! What am I to do ? '

The top joint of her rod was something less
than a semi-circle ; the fish had dashed beneath
a boulder, and a catastrophe appeared imminent.
' Give him line I — give him line ! '
shouted Yidal excitedly ; ' you've got a big
one.'

But, alas ! she had not got him at all.
Disregarding her instructions, she jerked her
rod upwards, and immediately one-half of her
hne was entangled in the branches overhead,
while the remainder was secured as a permanent
possession by the trout.

It is impossible for anyone to see a fellow-creature

behave in that way without some
passing feeing of indignation. ' Why didn't
you listen to me ? ' exclaimed Yidal reproachfully.
' Surely you couldn't have thought
you were going to land a fish by main
force?'

I thought he was going to pull me into
the water,' answered Lady St. Austell, who was
not at all disconcerted by her failure ; ' and I
didn't wish to be put to such discomfort by a
wretched little trout. How absurd it is of
people to make fishing-tackle of such flimsy
material ! With a good stout pole and some
strong twine I could have drao^^ed him out
easily. I'm sorry about the line. I suppose
that poor youth will be very much annoyed
and say it was all my fault, won't he ? '

Oh, that's nothing,' answered Vidal ; ' I
can put on another line for you in a minute or
two. The sad thing is that you should have
let a splendid opportunity slip.'

Lady St. Austell laughed, not feeling the
situation to be a sad one. She sat down,
clasping her hands round her knees, and
watched the young ran while he produced
line and gut from his pocket and began tying
them with deft fingers. How handsome and
well-built he was ! And how admirably his
loose shooting-coat, knickerbockers, and deer-stalking
cap became him! Lady St. Austell
worshipped youth — she would have given all
her jewels to be ten or fifteen years younger
herself— and as she contemplated Clare Irvine's
affianced husband, it occurred to her that it
would be very pleasant to be Clare Irvine.
To be young again ; to be in love — really in
love again ; to be loved in return, and to
believe that such things can endure ! Oh
sweet dreams of bygone days ! Oh happy
ignorance and innocence ! Oh buttercups and
daisies ! Lady St. Austell was so affected by
the pathos of her thoughts that she sighed

aloud, and Vidal, glancing up, asked lier if she
was tired.

I am, rather,' she replied ; ' I don't think
I'll fish any more. Come and sit down here,
and we will talk for a few minutes instead.
Do you know that you ought to be a perfectly
happy man ? '

I believe I am,' said Vidal, with a slight
laugh.

'I suppose so. I wish, for your sake, that
you could go on being as happy all your life ;
only that sort of happiness can't last, unfortunately.
I never can remember poetry ; but I
dare say you know the whole of that dismal
little ditty about the impossibility of keeping
love from dying in the knot there's no untying.'


I know the poem, but I am not bound
to believe in the sentiment,' answered Vidal,
smiling.

Ah, you must believe in it. You couldn't

write as you do unless you had found out that
much. Still, I grant you that some married
couples are happy after a fashion. They must
not see too much of one another ; that is the
chief thing. What is this nonsense Mr. Heriot
tells me about your taking a house down in the
wilds of Cornwall? Be advised by me, and don't
attempt impossibilities. London is the only
place for you to live in, and you know that as
well as I do.'

It isn't exactly a matter of choice. We
have to consider ways and means '

Rubbish ! ' interrupted Lady St. Austell.
You can live as cheaply in London as anywhere,
if you don't insist upon settling in a
fashionable quarter. Take a pretty little house
in Crompton or Bayswater, and when we come
up in the spring, you must bring your wife to
see me, and I will introduce her to some nice
people, and try to make things cheery for
her.'

You are very kind,' said Yidal.

I really ara — to people whom I like,'
returned Lady St. Austell naively ; ' I have
been often told so. What distresses me is that
I am not always allowed to see as much of my
friends as I could wish.'

This statement led her to speak of her own
conjugal relations, which she did with the
utmost frankness and good humour, to her
hearer's great amusement. Yidal was told all
about Johnny Spencer, and also about many of
Johnny's predecessors ; his informant did not
attempt to disguise either her own fickleness or
that of her admirers, and interspersed her
narrative with such quaint reflections that he
shook from head to foot with suppressed
laughter, until she noticed his merriment and
begged him not to suppress it any longer. ' It
is so much better to laugh than to cry, and so
much better to do either than to be bored,' she
said.

Whatever Lady St. Austell might be, she
was certainly not a bore. Yiclal was so much
tickled by her observations that he did not
notice how late it was getting ; and it was she
who concluded the interview by exclaiming
suddenly that she had not a minute to lose.
I have enjoyed my day very much,' she was
so kind as to say ; ' and I am convinced that
you and I should become great friends if we
saw more of each other. Now, mind, you are
to be sure to call upon me when we come to
London ; otherwise I may have forgotten about
you by that time. You won't think me rude
for saying so ; but one meets such a number of
people, and I have no memory. So do look
me up — you needn't bring your wife the first
time, if she chooses to stand upon ceremony —
and you will be most welcome.'

She repeated this amicable invitation by-and-by
in the drawing-room, where Clare was
sitting with the rest of the family. ' I have

been telling Mr. Yidal that I hope to see you
both in London next spring ; and if you will
treat me like an old friend and neighbour, and
call upon me without waiting for a formal first
visit, I shall think it so kind of you.'

Thank you very much,' answered Clare,
rather coldly ; ' but we are not at all likely to
be in London next spring.'

Oh yes, you are,' returned Lady St.
Austell ; ' you are not at all likely to be anywhere
else. You can't hive in the country all
the year round. Mr. Yidal owes it to his
readers to study society, and we owe it to
oiu-selves to make society pleasant for him.'

She nodded amiably, and went round the
room, making her adieux : she was in too great
a hurry to notice Clare's grave face and chilling
manner. But after she and Heriot had driven
away, somebody else was made unpleasantly
aware of Miss Irvine's displeasure.

Thanks, but I don't think I much care to

hear about it,' Clare said, when Yidal, in the
innocence of his heart, proposed to relate to
her all that had passed between him and their
departed guest. She was standing just outside
one of the open French windows, and she
looked away as she spoke.

She really was great fun,' Yidal went on,
a little doubtfully, being aware that Clare did
not like Lady St. Austell, but suspecting no
special reason for such dislike.

Yes ? I believe a good many people think
so,' remarked Clare, moving away ; and there
was that in her tone which made it absolutely
necessary to follow her and ask whether
anything was the matter.

Nothing whatever,' she replied, with her
head in the air.

Yidal of course knew what that meant, and
it vexed him more than it might have done an
older man. That the woman whom you love
should resent your disappearing into a wood

for the best part of an hour with another
woman is neither a very unnatural nor a very
offensive thing ; but to Yidal it seemed evidence
of a distrust so absurd as to be positively
alarming. If this was done in the green tree,
what would be done in the dry ?

Clare,' he said gravely, after an interval of
silence, during which they had been pacing
side by side along the gravel walk, ' you surely
can't mean to quarrel with me because I was
obliged to leave you for that little time ? '

You were not obliged ; you offered to go,'
she returned. ' But I certainly do not mean
to quarrel. Nobody has ever called me
quarrelsome.'

You are angry, at any rate ; and I must
say I think that is rather unjust. I didn't
intend to go off with Lady St. Austell ; I
hadn't the slightest wish to do anything of the
sort — quite the contrary. But don't you see
that we can't be always together, and that if

we are to doubt one another whenever we are
apart, there won't be much happiness for either
of us?'

Poor Clare hardly knew what answer to
make. She felt that, from the common-sense
point of view, she was utterly in the wrong ;
she could not hope to make Yidal understand
the danger of which her woman's instinct
warned her ; and yet she thought he might
have been a little less peremptory. ' I was
not angry with you Adrian,* she said at length,
quite humbly.

But, my dearest girl, why should you be
angry with anybody? You haven't a high
opinion of Lady St. Austell — well, perhaps she
doesn't deserve to be highly respected, although,
so far as 1 can see, there is very little harm in
her. But in any case, you may be sure that
when she wishes to indulge in a flirtation, it isn't
a person of my humble position in society that
she selects. All that she did was to patronise

me, and pay me a few compliments about my
writing, and ask me to take you to call upon
her in London. She meant to be good-natured
indeed, she was good-natured. She would
be very much astonished if she knew that you
and I had nearly fallen out because of her.'

Clare bit her lips and looked down, without
replying ; and presently Vidal resumed, ' Added
to which, she is a fat old creature, with whom
I hope I should never have had the bad taste
to flirt under any circumstances.'

Possibly that assertion may have been more
convincing than the most sensible of arguments.
Clare stood still, hesitated a moment, and then,
suddenly throwing her arms round Adrian's
neck, burst into tears. ' I am sorry,' she sobbed
out, with her head on this shoulder. ' I ought
not to have been so silly. It is my horrid
jealous temper — and — and — I love you so ! I
can't help thinking that she does want to flirt
with you ; but what does it matter .^ We

won't talk about her any more. You will
forgive me, won't you, Adrian ? '

So this lovers' quarrel ended as all lovers'
quarrels ought to end ; and if Vidal had been
asked, the next day, whether it had left any
disagreeable impression upon his mind, he
would have answered, quite conscientiously,
that it had not. Nevertheless, the conditions
under which we work out our lives do not
admit of obliteration. Every incident, however
trivial, must needs have its consequences ;
it is easy to forgive, and easy also, in a certain
sense, to forget ; but perhaps it is hardly possible,
with the best will in the world, to forget
that one has forgiven.

CHAPTER XV.

MR, AND MRS. Adrian VIDAL.

If at any future time it should seem possible
to run railway trains between London and
Paris without danger to the integrity of the
British Empire, many deserving persons will,
no doubt, feel that one more scourge has been
taken away from existence ; but all improvements
are apt to bear hard upon individual
cases, and it is certain that the removal of the
Channel steamers would deal a heavy blow at
the prosperity of Folkestone. Why, in this
fastidious age, so much enjoyment should be
derived from the contemplation of several hundreds
of fellow-creatures in a most unbecoming
state of physical degradation, there is no need
VOL. I. u

to inquire — human nature being &o full of contradictious
; but as to the fact of the enjoyment,
there can hardly be two opinions ; and this is
naturally intensified by a strong wind from the
S.S.W., meeting the tide, and an unusually
large boat-load of victims.

These conditions being satisfactorily fulfilled
one afternoon in the late autumn, the
visitors to Folkestone had descended from their
heights in formidable numbers, and had ranged
themselves on either side of that via dolores
which is but too familiar to most of us.
Between the lines of spectators the draggled
and forlorn passengers hastened onwards, some
with a ghastly pretence of jauntiness ; others
darting furious glances to right and left ; others,
again, too crushed by the memory of their
calamities to care who saw them or what they
looked like ; and as the melancholy procession
filed past, those who watched it exchanged
comments of a derisive nature, and were as

happy as so many inhuman Spaniards at a
bull-fight. But in any spectacle there are sure
to be some component parts which will disappoint
expectation ; and upon this occasion,
as usual, a few persons insulted the public by
walking ashore as if nothing was the matter.
Conspicuous among these were a lady and a
gentleman, of whom no worse thing could be

said than that they were obviously bride and



bridegroom. This, to be sure, is a humiliating

classification to carry about with one, and
involves those who cannot conceal their title
to it in a certain amount of obloquy ; still, if
one must be detected as a bridegroom, it is
something not to be a sea-sick bridegroom ;
and doubtless many a bride would be thankful
to land upon her native shores with cheeks as
rosy as those displayed by Mrs. Adrian Vidal.

The roses deepened slightly in colour as
fragments of certain half-audible comments
reached their owner's ears, and she quickened

Tj 2

lier pace, whispering to her husband, ' Let us
get array from these odious people. Are they
London shopkeepers out for a holiday, do you
think F '

But Yidal, who did not mind being stared
at, surveyed the surveyors with a smile, and
answered. ' No, my dear : judging from their
general aspect, I should say that they belonged,
almost without exception, to the upper middle
classes ; and they don't mean to be rude. If
you were the Princess of Wales, whom they
adore, they would treat you with even less
respect. It is the penalty of greatness to
attract attention ; and when one happens to
possess the most beautiful face in the three
kingdoms '

But at this point Mrs. Yidal caught the
speaker's arm and hurried him into the shelter
of the Pavilion Hotel, without allowing him to
finish his sentence. It was she who, upon the
principle of draining the cup of pleasure to its

dregs, had decided that tliev should proceed
no farther than Folkestone that nis^ht. The
morrow would restore them to the cares and
pleasures of ordinary life ; but this last evening
of their honeymoon should be spent, as the
others had been spent — amid surroundings
which suo'orested no thought of anA'thino- save

~0 C Iso

the present.

Those who are in a position to speak authoritatively
are fond of affirming that the honeymoon
is seldom the happiest period of a manes
or woman's life ; but possibly Vidal and Clare
may have been exceptional persons, for it is
certain that their happiness, since the ceremony
which had taken place in Polruth Church a
month before, lead known neither cloud nor
check. They had visited, somewhat hastily,
the cities and watering-places of South-western
France ; they had dined at tables-dliote,
hemmed in by phalanxes of their compatriots,
without addressing a word to any of them.

and had not weaned of one another's society,
nor of ringing the changes upon an oft-told
tale. Now, as the last hours of the last day
of irresponsibility drew nigh, Clare would have
it that they should resemble those of the previous
days, and, despite the lateness of the
season and the blusterous weather, insisted
upon her husband's taking her out for a walk
after dinner, while he smoked his evening
cigar.

When we are settled in our own home,'
she said, a little ruefully, ' you will have your
study, where you will smoke, and where I
shall not be admitted. Well, sometimes,
perhaps — for ten minutes or so, but not more.
You know you can't work when anyone is in
the room ; you have often told me so. You
have no work to do to-night, though, and no
study to work in ; so I may keep you all to
myself with a quiet conscience.'

It chanced, however, that sirs. Vidal was

to be denied that privilege, after all. The
down express had just come in, and as our
young friends crossed the hall of the hotel
they encountered a stream of newly arrived
travellers, amongst whom was a shrunken
figure in a fur-heed coat, familiar to both of
them.

Mr. Heriot ! ' exclaimed Clare ; ' how glad
1 am to see you ! ' — while Vidal called out,
Heriot himself, as I'm a living sinner ! Why,
man, I thought you were to start for the south
six weeks ago ! '

'I had to put it off: I have been in the
doctor's clutches again,' answered Heriot, after
he had shaken the hands extended to him ;
but I shall cross tomorrow, if all's well. I
never thought of meeting you here — I didn't
know you meant to return so soon.'

His manner was somewhat confused, and it
was evident that this unexpected meeting gave
him more surprise than pleasure. After a few

more words had bear exchanged he said, ' I
mustn't keep you standing here. Perhaps I
may have an opportunity of saying good-bye to
you in the morning. I'll go and see what sort
of a room they have got for me now.'

You will do no such thing,' returned
Vidal. ' You will come into our sitting-room,
where you will find a fire, and where they will
bring you your dinner. And after that, Clare
will allow you to smoke a cigar with me.'

Thanks very much,' replied Heriot, ' but
I dined before I left London.' He added, in a
lower tone, ' My dear boy, do you think I
have no manners ? You are very kind, but you
can't possibly want me ; and one isn't supposed
to recognise people when they are on their
wedding trip, is one ? '

I don't know what the supposition maybe,'
said Vidal, ' but I know that you are not
going to be allowed the chance of cutting our
acquaintance. What an unfriendly old beggar

you are ! Not want you, indeed ! Why, Clare
and 1 shall spend our evenings together for the
rest of our lives ; whereas '

Whereas you may never spend another
evening with me,' interrupted Heriot, with a
slight laugh. ' Well, there's something in
that.'

He suffered himself to be led into the
sitting-room and installed in an arm-chair
beside the fire, though he could not be persuaded
to smoke in Mrs. Yidal's presence.
The warm atmosphere ; the cheerful aspect of
the little room, which, although it was as
scantily furnished as sitting-rooms in English
hotels always are, had at least so much of
snugness as a crimson carpet and window-curtains
can bestow ; the loquacity of the
young people, who seemed to be, and indeed
were, unaffectedly glad to see him — all these
things ended by thawing the unwonted chill
which had at first been noticeable in his

demeanour. He did not say much, but sat
resting his chin upon his folded hands and
looking out over them with those soft, bright
eyes of his, while Adrian favoured him with a
narrative of their travels, which Clare interrupted
at every other word. The adventures
that had befallen them had not, apparently,
been of a very startling kind, nor were the
little jokes and pleasantries with which they
attacked one another from time to time
calculated to amuse everybody ; but Heriot,
whose enjoyment of life was for the most part
vicarious, and who was more attached to this
couple than to any other two people in the
world, was made happy by their innocent
happiness, as they knew that he would be, and
asked for nothing better than to listen to their
talk. He took advantage of a momentary lull
to remark, 'And now, I suppose, you are
bound for London ? '

Well, yes,' answered Yidal, with a slight

hesitation. ' The Cornish scheme broke down,
somehow or other. Mrs. Irvine couldn't find
any house that seemed in the least suitable for
us ; and, after all. London has its advantages,
you know. Ckire rather thought she would
prefer it too ; so I went up to have a look,
and I was lucky enough to find a very decent
little house in Alexandra Gardens. You don't
know where that is, of course, and I can't
explain ; but you go on to the far end of
Cromwell Eoad, and then wander about until
somebody tells you. It's a respectable neighbourhood,
if not exactly aristocratic ; and I
really think that in many ways it will be better
for us both to be within hail of the world.'

He seemed a little anxious to make excuses
for himself; but Heriot ignored this tendency.
'I never believed much in the Cornish scheme,'
he observed ; ' and I had a letter not long ago
from Mrs. Irvine, in which she told me of the

change in your plans. She mentioned that
Mrs. Vidal '

'What have I done that you should address
rae as Mrs. Yidal P ' demanded that lady.

'Well, Clare, then — she mentioned that
Clare was in favour of it.'

Of course I was in favour of it,' said Clare ;
one doesn't marry in order to end one's days
in the place of one's birth. I held my tongue
until mamma had wearied herself out with
seeking for houses, because it would have been
useless to speak sooner ; but all the time I was
concealing a deep design beneath a mask of
indifference.'

She was not, however, a particularly good
hand at concealment, and she did not contrive
to mislead Heriot, who quite understood the
true state of the case. With her husband she
lead been more successful. Vidal had never
suspected that she was making any sacrifice in
yielding to certain unexpressed and only half-formed

wishes of his ; he thought it very
natural that she should desire to see more of
the world, and was glad that she had that
desire ; although, if she had urged it, he would
have consented to take up his residence in
Cornwall without pulling wry faces. As a
matter of fact, Clare dreaded the proximity of
the fashionable world, but was ashamed of her
fears. It may have been in some degree
because she was ashamed of them that she had
expressed herself so strongly as to the attractions
of the metropolis ; but she had been
actuated chevy by a generous wish to give
Adrian what he wanted, without putting him
to the inconvenience of asking for it.

Mrs. Irvine had proved unexpectedly tractable
; but, indeed, that excellent lady was
seldom anything else, if taken in the right way
and at the right time. Tired of surveying
country houses to which some insuperable
objection was always discovered, and beginning

to lament over the many other important duties
that she had suffered to fall into arrear, she
had received Clare's suggestion that further
search should be abandoned with faint protests
which gradually melted into acquiescence ; and
when Adrian assured her that he should not
think of furnishing his house without making
appeal to her valuable advice and experience,
she became quite reconciled to the new arrangement.


We shall set to work to buy tables and
chairs as soon as we get to London,' Clare went
on. ' Mamma is coming up to help us, and
poor Adrian will have a bad time of it, I am
afraid ; but we hope to be settled down before
Christmas.'

I must look out for rugs and embroidery
at Damascus,' remarked Heriot. ' Did I tell
you that I was going to Syria this winter ? If
I come across anything really good, I will

despatch it to yon, and perhaps you will deign
to accept it as a reminder of an absent friend.'

'Oh no ; you must keep your pretty things
for your own house,' said Clare ; and Yidal
chimed in, ' I think we have accepted about
enough as it is. Our tables and chairs, not to
mention our carpets and curtains and other
necessaries, will be your wedding present, you
know, Heriot.'

He had had some qualms of conscience
about that thousand-pound cheque, and felt an
embarrassment in speaking of it which was
more than shared by its donor, who took no
notice of the allusion, but said hastily, in
answer to Clare, ' My house is as full as it can
hold already. I gave up attempting to beautify
it years ago. Besides, I have nobody to share
the delight of contemplating fresh acquisitions
with me ; and you cannot imagine, until you
have tried it, how uninteresting it is to buy
presents for one's self. In the East one simply

can't help making purchases ; it is one of the
occupations of the day : and if you won't
oblige me by taking some of my surplus stock
off my hands, the only result will be that it
will be pounced upon by somebody else, and
used for decorating a drawing-room which I
shall probably never enter.'

Not long after this he wished his entertainers
good-night ; and as soon as the door
had closed behind him Clare exclaimed, ' Poor
Mr. Heriot ! I am so very sorry for him ! '

Wliy ? Do you think he looks worse ? '
Adrian asked.

Xo, I don't know that he does ; but his
is such a sad, lonely life. Adrian,' she added,
drawing a little nearer to her husband, ' I think
I am sorry for everybody who is not married.'

One may be sorry for poor old Heriot
without allowing one's compassion to take quite
so wide a sweep as that,' remarked Vidal. ' If
he felt the want of a wife I have no doubt he

could find plenty of people ready and willing
to marry him ; for he is very well off.'

'Oil, a wife who would marry him for the
sake of his money — very likely he could. Well,
it only shows that money has not much to do
with happiness, after all. Poor as we are. I
don't want to change places with anybody ; do
you ? '

Yidal made the reply that was expected of
him. He was absolutely contented, and said
so a dozen times a day. The present was
perfect happiness ; the future seemed full of the
brightest promise ; if one of the newly-married
pair felt some sinking of the heart when
London drew its sooty veil over their heads.
Adrian was not that one. He was pleased
^vith everything — pleased to be back among the
familiar streets ; pleased with the lodgings
which Mrs. Irvine had engaged as a temporary
abode for him ; pleased also, it may be (though
he did not say so), at her announcement that

VOL. I. X

she herself was domiciled at an hotel in the
neighbourhood.

I might have had rooms in the same
house,' she whispered confidentially, ' but I
wouldn't take them. Arrangements of that
kind are always dangerous, and especially so at
a time like this. Only the other day I heard
of such a sad case — two young people agreeing
to an amicable separation because they had
fallen out about the craving-room paper ; and
it seems that they might have made friends
again if it had not been for the mother-in-law,
who most injudiciously took her daughter's part.'

I don't think there is much danger of such
a catastrophe in our case,' said Vidal, laughing ;
but Mrs. Irvine rejoined gravely that one could
never tell, and that it was best to be on the
safe side.

I hope,' said she, ' that if you notice any
inclination on my part to thrust my views
about furniture upon you, you will check it at
once.'

Vidal promised that he would do so, but
did not keep his promise. His views with regard
to upholstery were of the modern order,
and were so absolutely certain to differ from
those of his mother-in-law, that he judged it
wisest to efface himself from the outset and
intrust all details to Clare, whose taste was
good, if not educated up to the most recent
artistic standard. This self-abnegation did not
go wholly unrewarded ; for the furnishing of
the house in Alexandra Gardens was eventually
accomplished at a cost infinitely smaller than
its master had ventured to anticipate. Moreover,
Mr. Irvine, who had been brought up to
London in consideration of his special knowledge,
proved worthy of the confidence reposed
in him, and picked up some bargains in
Wardoiu- Street and elsewhere which were
greatly admired in after days by persons qualified
to give an opinion about such matters.

In the meantime, Clare was growing accuse

2

toned to the smoky atmosphere of a large city,
and was spending her time after a fashion which
very few women have ever yet failed to find
agreeable. The greater part of each day was
passed at the upholsterer's ; and in the evenings
her husband generally took her to the theatre,
which was delightful. She would gladly have
prolonged this pleasant interim, during which
she had few visitors and no household cares,
had she not been moved with pity for poor
Adrian, whose literary labours had to be carried
on in a dark little dining-room on the ground-floor,
where he was exposed to perpetual interruption,
and who bore this discomfort with a
cheerfulness which she could not sufficiently
admire.

At length, the hist of necessary purchases
being exhausted, and there being nothing
further to be done but to await the good pleasure
of dilatory tradesmen, Mr. and Mrs. Irvine
returned home ; and then a duty which had

been too long delayed had to be performed.
Mrs. Vidal the elder had not received the news
of her son's approaching marriage in a congratulatory
spirit, nor had she thought fit to be
present at his wedding. Her health, she had
averred, precluded her from undertaking so
long a journey, and, although she had been
guilty of no overt incivility to the Irvine family,
it was pretty clearly understood by them that
she was not eager to make their acquaintance.
To adrian she had written a formal little note,
advising him of the despatch of four salt-cellars
to his address, as a wedding gift, and regretting
that her straitened circumstances made it impossible
for her to be as liberal as she would
have desired to be upon these occasions.
Poverty, she added, was generally considered a
disagreeable thing. Apparently he did not
think so. She hoped he would never see reason
to change his opinion.

Since the receipt of this sympathetic missive,

Adrian had only heard from his mother once,
when she had requested him to bring his bride
to Brighton on a three days' visit as soon as he
could spare time to do so. She would not think
of asking him to remain longer than that in her
dull house, she said, being well aware how few
attractions she was able to offer.

There was nothing for it but to comply
with so modest and reasonable a request : but
Yidal put off doing so as long as he could, and
took the train for Brighton at last with more
trepidation than he would have cared to own to.
He knew that sirs. Yidal would be prejudiced
against her daughter-in-law; he knew that
when she was prejudiced against a person she
was often spiteful to that person, and sometimes
extremely rude ; and he shrewdly suspected
that Clare would not stand much rudeness.
He himself, having a horror of disputes and
recriminations, had always managed to get on
tolerably well with his mother by the simple

My mother is rather odd in some ways ; it
isn't everybody who takes to her — but, after all,
she is my mother, you know. Sometimes she says
things that people don't like ; but if you don't
notice them she generally stops ; and anything
is better than having a row, don't you think so?
For three days one can put up with a good deal.
And she doesn't really mean to be disagreeable.

From these and other similar phrases, Clare
gathered that Mrs. Vidal did mean to be disagreeable
and would be disagreeable ; but the
prospect did not dismay her. For Adrian's

sake she would have submitted to many worse
things than the scolding of a shrewish old
woman, such as she imagined Mrs. Vidal to be,
and she determined to accept any and every
insult that might be offered to her without
retaliating.

When she saw the tall dark woman who
had preserved a certain youthfulness of figure,
and whose voice had something of the ring of
Adrian's, though her features and colouring were
so unlike his, she was agreeably disappointed.
Mrs. Vidal, if not very affectionate, was far
from being insulting. Adrian had told the
truth, while supposing that he was doing quite
the contrary, when he had said that she did not
mean to be disagreeable. After her peculiar
fashion she was fond of her son, and looked
forward to his visits more than she would have
acknowledged, or than anyone who knew her
would have imagined. She did her best to
make this visit pleasant to her ouesis, whom

she treated more like strangers than near relatives
; she put her brougham at their disposal,
excusing herself from leaving the house on the
plea of ill-health, though there was nothing in
the world the matter with her ; and during
their stay she gave two dinner parties, to which
she invited the elite of her acquaintance. At
these festivities Clare attracted much notice and
admiration, and was so fortunate as to earn
the good opinion of her mother-in-law.

I think your marriage was an imprudent
one,' the latter took occasion to remark to
Adrian ; ' but, setting prudence aside, you are
to be congratulated. Your wife is decidedly
distinguished.'

Thanks, mother : I was sure you would
think so,' said Adrian, who had not been at all
sure of any such thing, and was greatly pleased
by this unexpected compliment. ' And she is
as beautiful as she is distinguished ; you will
allow that ? '

She is pretty. certainly ; but her good
looks chiefly concern you. It is more important
that she should be a lady. And she is a
lady.'

Well, yes ; I think she may claim to be a
lady,' answered Adrian, laughing a little. ' If
she had not been a lady I should hardly have
married her.'

No ? ' said Mrs. Vidal, with a slight elevation
of her eyebrows. ' I did not know that you
considered that essential.'

It was not in the poor woman's nature to be
gracious. The world had gone iU with her —
or she fancied that it had gone ill — and possibly
she may not have desired that the world should
go too well with her neighbours. She was not
conscious of wishing them any harm ; she was
not conscious of caring much about them, one
way or the other ; but a sort of misguided
instinct, which she was unable to resist, led her
to hit upon the speeches that were most likely to

cause them annoyance. Thus she profited by an
opportunity which offered, the same day, to say
to Clare, ' I hope you are a good manager.
Adrian will not be of much assistance to you
in money matters, I am afraid.'

I dare say we shall contrive to get on,'
Clare replied.

That is exactly what he would say. He
always thinks that he will get on somehow ;
but unfortunately the fact remains that there
are only twenty shillings in a pound. You
must have noticed how sanguine and impulsive
Adrian is. He gives himself what he wants at
the moment, and doesn't trouble about consequences.
Look at your engagement and
marriage, for example — an affair of six months!
As I was telling him this morning, he has been
fortunate, in my opinion ; but it does seem to
have been rather sudden.'

I suppose it does,' said Clare, determined
not to be ann over.

Yes ; and of course it is no disparagement
to you to say that lie ran a considerable risk
by being in such a hurry. But that is just his
way. Ever since he left school he has been in
love with somebody or other.'

He has never married before, though,'
remarked Clare, smiling, and endeavouring not
to show how distasteful this assertion as to her
husband's past Hfe was to her.

No ; very true — and perhaps marriage
may steady him. I am sure I hope it will.'

I don't think he has ever been unsteady,'
Clare said.

Oh, not in the way of being what people
call " wild." Still, one can't help remembering
that you are not his first flame ; and that

makes one fancy that, perhaps However, I

have no doubt he will make a very good husband,
as husbands go, if he is properly
managed. I would not be too strict with
him, if I were you. What men of his stamp

like is to have all pecuniary bothers taken wolf
their hands, to be allowed plenty of liberty,
and to have a good dinner provided for them
every day. I don't say that this is justifiable,
or quite fair upon their wives ; but we must
take the world as we find it, and it is the more
to be wished that one of you should be able to
face facts, because it is certain that the other
never ^vill.'

Such a system of philosophy was hardly
likely to find favour in the eyes of any bride.
Clare told herself that her mother-in-law's
words were prompted solely by ill nature, and
merited nothing but contempt ; yet she often
recalled them afterwards — as, indeed, we all
recall the speeches that hurt us most — and
even at the time she was uncomfortably conscious
that their cynicism had an admixture of
truth in it. It is unquestionably true that most-men
like their dinner to be well cooked, and
it is perhaps pardonable in some men — in

geniuses especially — to shirk the worries
attendant upon domestic expenditure. That
much Clare was willing to concede ; but what
was meant by plenty of liberty ? She knew
very well that there was a certain kind of
liberty which lie could never be capable of
allowing to her husband. She did not, however,
give utterance to her thoughts, but
merely said with a slight intonation of displeasure,
' I am sorry you think so badly of Adrian.'
Mrs. Vidal stared. ' I don't think badly of
him,' she answered.; 'he is not bad — only a
little flighty. I see him as he is, that is all.
Perhaps I can judge of my children more dispassionately
than most mothers, because I have
no personal influence over them. Their father
chose to make them independent of me in his
will, and they have always been allowed to
follow their own devices — or, rather, have
insisted upon following them. My daughter
Georgina, as I dare say you know, is by way

She is in the South Sea Islands now, is
she not ? ' asked Clare, glad to change the
subject.

She was when I last heard from her. I
believe she means to write a book on her return,
if she ever returns ; but it would not surprise mein
the least to hear that she had married a native
chief. She has had several chances, which she
has thought proper to despise, of marrying well
in this country ; but, judging by her appearance
when she came back from her last journey
into the interior of Zanzibar, nobody is likely
to ask her again. A more deplorable object I
never beheld. Mere skin and bone ! — and such
a complexion that I really thought at first she
must have been staining her face with walnut-juice
in order to pass herself off as a Hottentot.
Speaking from a rational point of view,
Georgina ought to have married and Adrian

ought to have remained single ; but just the
reverse has happened, you see.'

Upon the whole, Clare was not sorry to
turn her back upon Brighton, and could not
quite agree with Adrian when he declared that
their visit had been a triumphant success.
Then wee must beware of repeating it, lest we
should go away less triumphant next time,' she
said.

At this he laughed, and answered that it
would probably be some months before they
received another invitation. ' My mother has
done her duty, and so have we. As for pleasure,
we don't arrange meetings with that object in
our family.'

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

I':?INTED BV

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

3 0112 052948566

-o^^

«rpppii«^

Adrian

ViDAL

W. E. NORRIS

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS

r

Anger HALL.

tv f)R

VOL. n.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/adrianvidal02norr

BY

W. E Norris

AUTHOR OF
yO NEW THING' 'Mademoiselle DK >rERSAC ' ' Matrimony

IN THREE VOLUMES
YOL. II.

LONDON

SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[All rights reserved']

V. 2.

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CaAPTEP. Take

XVI. THE ' Anglo-saxon ' 1

XVII. AN AWKWARD ENCOUNTER .• . . . 40

XVIII. SUSAN'S Revenge "6

XIX. Georgia 116

XX. ESTRANGEMENT 153

XXI. A CRUEL CALUMNY IBO

XXII. PLAIN LANGUAGE 195

XXIII. Oddly JOKE 206

CONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUME

CcIAPTKP. Page

XXIV. THE CLOUDS AFTER THE Vain . . 233

XXV. DE Went UPON Marriage . . . . 259

XXVI. Presumptive Evidence . . . .274

XXVII. Proof POSITIVE 285

CHAPTEE Xii.

THE A^TiLO-SAXOX.'

The thirty or forty eligible residences which
have received the name of Alexandra Gardens
are to be found in an outlying quarter of the
district now known as South Kensington, vice
Crompton superseded. They stand upon a
spot where there were actual gardens — 
— not so very long ago ; but all
trace of these has disappeared, and the word,
as applied to this special row of buildings, has
no more justification than that of custom and
precedent. Viewed as dwellings, they pro-vol.

II. B

bablj lack something in soundness of structure ;
but to set against this, you have — as Adrian's
landlord was at some pains to point out to him
the great advantage of originality of design,
each house possessing its own distinctive character
; so that, however odd might be the
shape of your drawing-room, you could count
with tolerable certainty upon that of your
neighbour's drawing-room being odder still.
No. 12 was fairly commodious, and the disposition
of the rooms was certainly clever.
There was an appearance of space about the
hall ; the staircase was broad and not too
steep ; the drawing-room and library had
recesses in unexpected places, and the whole
house was well adapted for those arrangement
in stained glass and lincrusta, and wall-paper
resembling stamped leather, whereby the modern
Londoner strives to render existence beautiful.
The rent demanded was a trifle high, to
be sure, considering the remoteness of the situation

; but upon this point Vidal quoted a dictum
of the late Baron von Bunsen to the effect
that a man should always house himself more
expensively and live more simply than his
means warrant ; adding, as a result of his own
observations, that people won't come to see
you if you live at letting Hill, whereas they
will cheerfully drive double the distance for the
same purpose if only your address ends with
the letters S.W.

That it was desirable to have many visitors
he took for granted ; and Clare, who, for her
part, would have been perfectly satisfied to see
nobody but her husband from week's end to
week's end, fell in with his views, and welcomed
the visitors when they presented themselves,
as they very soon did, in large numbers.
She was proud of her husband's popularity ; it
was pleasant to her to receive the ladies who
had known him in his bachelor days ; to listen
to the flattering things that they said about

B 2

him ; and to show them her pretty house. If
there were difficulties in the way of effecting
that retrenchment in housekeeping which was
to balance the excess of rent, she kept them to
herself. From the outset she resolved that
Adrian should not be troubled with such petty
cares ; and she fought single-handed the battle
that most young wives have to fight. Happily,
she was not altogether a novice. Her mother's
frequent absences and occupations had caused
a large share of the management of the Cardrew
household to fall upon her shoulders, and she
knew pretty well what was required for the
smaller establishment over which she now
reigned. What she did not know, and had to
learn by painful experience, was the discrepancy
that exists between Cornish and London
prices. She had troubles with the milkman
and troubles with the cook, and perhaps a few
tears may have fallen upon the weekly bills,
which somehow always exceeded the sum

agreed upon by her and her husband as sufficient.
She paid her way — not, however, without
the sacrifice of some of her pin-money — -
and maintained a lightsome demeanour ; yet,
little as she would have acknowledged it, even
to herself, the bloom of her youth was rubbed
off by this daily struggle, and married life
began to reveal itself to her as something different
from the life of her dreams.

It is a curious fact that men do not, asa
rule, shrink from subjecting their wives to
the trials which are inseparable from poverty ;
although very few of us would care to see our
daughters exposed to what, after all, is a sort
of degradation. Adrian handed over his
weekly cheque and asked no questions. To do
him justice, if Clare bad requested more, he
would have given her more without grumbling,
though he could not very well have afforded it ;
but since she did not ask, he let well alone.
Moreover, he, too, had his daily share of work

to get through. That it happened to be a
pleasant kind of work than hers was not his
fault.

Early in the year his second novel saw the
light, and for a few weeks after the appearance
of the book there was a pause of anxious expectation
in Alexandra Gardens. The author,
after vacillating some time between hope and
fear, was inclined towards despondency : on
the other hand, the author's wife, who had seen
the proof sheets, was so confident as to the
favourable reception which the public would
accord to ' Two Lovers ' that it was difficult to
help being infected by her enthusiasm.

It is by far the most interesting novel I
ever read,' she declared, with pardonable exaggeration
; ' there isn't a page in it that I
should wish altered. And it is you all through,
Adrian. I didn't recognise you in " Satiety ; "
it seemed to me that you were not writing
what you thought so much as what worldly

people profess to think. But in " Two Lovers "
you are yourself. I don't know whether the
critics will praise it or not ; but I do know that
everyone who cares for a charming story will
read it and delight in it.'

They won't discover that it's charming
unless the critics tell them so,' answered Vidal.
I don't know why anyone should think it
charming. There's nothing in it that I can see.'

As a matter of fact, there was rather more
in it than he supposed. It was not a work of
the highest genius ; but it was an excellent
story, very well told, and it had just that
happy combination of romance with realism
which is so sure to please and so hard to
accomplish. Vidal had conceived his novel
under conditions especially favourable to this
kind of composition. The greater part of it
had been written at a time when he was profoundly
and, as he believed, hopelessly in love ;
his pen had faithfully recorded his own feelings

; the situations and incidents that he
described were many of them such as he himself
had had experience of ; half unconsciously,
he had made the chief character a copy of
Clare Irvine — not the real Clare, but an
idealised version of her which she herself
would never have recognised. This imaginary
personage was destined to become one of the
most popular heroines of modern fiction, and
in many an English household her name is still
remembered and coupled with the creations of
authors to whose celebrity Adrian Vidal has
never attained. The book had been completed
with more ease and rapidity than his previous
one ; and this, among other things, caused him
to think slightingly of it. It is proverbial that
an artist is no judge of his own works. He can
hardly avoid estimating their value by the
amount of pains that he has taken to produce
them, whereas the purchaser has quite another
standard.

From the purchaser's point of view, ' Two
Lovers ' was almost as satisfactory as Clare had
pronounced it to be ; and Vidal was not kept
long in suspense before this encouraging
verdict was made known to him. One afternoon
he came in, holding in his hand a copy
of his old enemy, the ' Monday Ee\aew,' which
he tossed down upon the work-table beside
which his wife was seated. From the subdued
radiance of his countenance, Clare perceived,
before she looked at the paper, that all was
well ; but she was scarcely prepared for the
unstinted praise which presently met her eye.

The reviewer began by saying that he had
opened ' Two Lovers ' with grave apprehensions.
The lovers to whom recent writers of
fiction had introduced him had not been
pleasant people to meet, and he had felt no
desire to become acquainted with two more of
them. But this distrustful attitude had soon
been abandoned.

After we had reached the end of the first
chapter, our critical faculties fell into abeyance
; we surrendered ourselves unreservedly
to the charm of this most delightful novel, and
read it from beginning to end without marking
a single passage for praise or blame. We
hardly like to think how many years it is since
we have been able to say as much of any novel
that has fallen ito our hands. ." Two
Lovers " is a book to be enjoyed, not to be
criticised. It is throughout so healthy in tone,
so spontaneous, and so true to nature, that a
man feels himself growing young again as he
reads, and has not the heart to cavil at details,
or to point out to the author in what respects
his story is capable of improvement. . . . Weare
heartily glad to see that Mr. Vidal can
produce something better than the stale and
dreary moralising which he inflicted upon us in
Satiety." He may rest assured that the less
he gives us of that kind of writing in future,

and the more of such novels as " Two Lovers,"
the better it will be aUke for his readers and
his reputation.'

Now this was certainly very handsome ;
and though Vidal might affect to make light of
it, and say that it was always a mere toss-up
whether you got kicks or halfpence from that
quarter, he could not altogether conceal his
satisfaction nor refrain from remarking by-and-by,
' After all, the old " Monday " is about the
best paper that deigns to criticise us poor
novel-writers with anything like fulness. The
men who write for it express themselves like
gentlemen and men of the world ; there's no
denying that. I don't think they are always
quite fair, you know ; but '

Well, they have been fair this time, at all
events,' interrupted Clare decisively ; and
Adrian did not feel called upon to contradict her.

The ' Monday Review ' happened to be the
first to notice ' Two Lovers ; ' but other

journals speedily followed suit, and were no
whit less flattering in their observations. One
and all, big guns and little guns, pronounced
unequivocally in favour of the book ; there
was not a single discordant note in the whole
chorus of approval. What was perhaps of
more importance was that the good opinion of
the press was fully confirmed by the public.
Within a few weeks of its appearance the first
edition of ' Two Lovers ' was exhausted ; and a
second and a third went off with equal rapidity,
and Vidal's publishers, smiling graciously upon
him, assured him that the sale of the work
showed no signs of diminishing. In these days
of circulating libraries such triumphs are not
common, and a comparatively unknown writer
who is thus distinguished may be pretty sure of
having the whole publishing world at his feet.
The number of letters that Yidal received at
this time from publishers and editors of magazines
was so great that he began to find the

mere answering of them a serious tax upon his
leisure ; and if he could have accepted all the
engagements offered to him. his fortune would
have been made.

Xor was it only in this practical fashion
that his success was acknowledged. The circle
of his friends and acquaintances, always a large
one became so wide, nov that he was a
celebrity, as to be almost unmanageable
Parliament had met, London was filling fast,
and it appeared as if everybody who did not
already know the talented author of ' Two
Lovers ' was dying to be introduced to him.
The roadway of Alexandra Gardens, which was,
in general, unaccustomed to traffic, and required
but little attention from the parochial
authorities, was cut up by the wheels of the
carriages which stopped at the door of No. 1 2 :
Clare's card-tray was filled to overflowing, and
invitations to dinner arrived at every hour of
the day.

The young man's leach was not turned by
all this adulation, which indeed he was sensible
enough to know that he had done very little to
deserve. He was astonished and rather amused
at it ; personally, he did not much care about
stories that were frankly stories and nothing
more ; he still thought the work which had
]brought him into such prominence vastly
inferior to its predecessor ; he was inclined,
Eke Voltaire, to exclaim, ' Les honneurs et les
Mens peuvent enjoin sur moi pour une comedie
de la foire ! ' Nevertheless, he thoroughly
enjoyed being made much of. He accepted
the invitations which bore his wife's name as
well as his own, and declined those in which
her existence was ignored. He basked in the
sunshine of social renown, giving himself no
airs, but receiving the compliments paid him
with an innocent gratification which finished
the conquest of his admirers' hearts. There
are men with whom notoriety does not agree,

just as there are plants which suffer by being
taken out of the shade. Others, again, require
light and warmth to bring out what is best in
them, and to this latter category Adrian Vidal
belonged.

I can't pretend to be above caring whether
people are kind to me or not,' he said once to
Clare, whose thirst for applause was soon
slaked, and who was getting tired of dining
out every night. ' I like to be liked : it's a
harmless weakness.'

'Yes,' she agreed, rather dubiously; 'it is
pleasant to be liked for one's own sake ; bui to
be liked only because one has done something
out of the common — I don't know whether that
is such a good thing. And how can one tell
that it will last .^ '

Oh, it won't last,' answered Adrian, shrugging
his shoulders. ' xlll the more reason for
making the most of it while it does.' And then
he laughingly told his-v^'fe that she was a

misanthrope, and went upstairs to dress for
dinner.

It occasionally happened now that Clare
sat down to a solitary meal. As has been
said before, Vidal made it a rule to decline all
invitations in which she was not included ; but
some invitations reached him in which it was
impossible that she should be included, and
which prudence forbade him to refuse. On
this evening, for instance, he had been asked to
dine at the Acropolis Club to meet a certain
Mr. Pilkington, whose position as a man of
letters was of the first rank, and who was considered
by his disciples to be a sort of English
Sainte-veuve. Whether Mr. Wellington had
ever made good his title to be so considered was
of course a question which admitted of two
answers ; but his style of writing was certainly
graceful and impartial, and he had a high
opinion of his own abilities, which always
counts for something. He had at one time

been editor of a review famous for its dogmatic
utterances on science, philosophy, and religion,
but had resigned the post on finding that it involved
him in controversies which were not to
his taste. He was well known in society, and
passed for being an ambitious man ; though he
seldom said or did anything to justify that
supposition. Being possessed of a moderate
fortune, he was not dependent upon his pen
for a livelihood, and only wrote when he felt so
disposed. Latterly he had written little ; but
whenever an article signed by him appeared, it
was read with interest and respect. A fair scholar
and an excellent critic, he prided himself upon
his gift of discrimination, and would sometimes
take a young author by the hand, to the delight
of that young author, and prophesy great
things of him. However, he did not now do
this so frequently as in former years, some of
his proteges having in the most unscrupulous
manner falsified his predictions.

VOL. II. c

Ove

When Yidal was asked to meet this gentleman,
whom as yet he knew only by repute, he
felt that a high compliment was being paid
to him. His host — one Egerton, a well-to-do
middle-aged bachelor, who liked to play
Maecenas upon a small scale, and made a point
of knowing all authors, was just the sort of man
to whom Mr. Pilkington would have been
likely to apply had he been desirous of meeting
a fresh writer of promise, and Vidal was disposed
to think that some such desire must have
been intimated. Moreover, a rumour had
reached him that Pilkington was about to start
a new magazine or review, and he had some
faint hope that he was going to be asked to
contribute to this. As far as promises to provide
fiction were concerned, he already had
his hands full ; but he would willingly have
resigned one of these more lucrative engagements
for the honour of being named among
the select band over which the great Pilkington
might be expected to preside.

Egerton, stout, grey haired, good-humoured,
and somewhat fussy in manner, met him as he
entered the hall of the Acropolis, and held him
by the hand while he murmured confidentially,
So glad you were able to come ! Pilkington
hasn't turned up yet ; but he'll be here directly,
I suppose. Very anxious to make you: acquaintance
— asked me a heap of questions
about you. You'll find him an uncommonly
pleasant fellow, when you know him— a little
stiff, some people think. Quiet, you know —
not much gush about him ; but when he says a
thing, you may be sure that he means it.'

This exordium sounded promising. It was
evident that Mr. Pilkington had been saying,
or was going to say, something to the advantage
of the person addressed. Vidal made an appropriate
response, and his entertainer, turning
to a tally cadaverous-looking man who was
perusing the play-bills on the wall, went on :
I don't know whether you know Percy

c 2

Kean. Kean, let me introduce you to Mr.
Vidal — " Two Lovers," you know — celebrated
author.'

The last words would perhaps have been
more fittingly applied to the elder than to the
younger of the two men thus presented to one
another. Percy Kean had tried his hand at
various branches of literature, and, during a
career of something like twenty years, had
been moderately successful in everything that he
had attempted. His comedies generally drew
full houses ; his humorous verses, if they
did not quite entitle him to call himself a poet,
were widely read ; he was connected with
several weekly journals, and was reputed to bethe
writer of some political skits which had at
different times amused those who understood
them. He took a large bony hand out of his
pocket and extended it to Adrian, saying,
Glad to see you. I wish the other man would
come ! '

But the Other man did not come for half an
hour, and when he did come, made no apology
for being late. Yidal was a little disappointed
in his appearance, which was rather that of an
elderly man of fashion than of an eminent
scholar. His hair, which was turning grey at
the temples, was parted in the middle and
carefully brushed ; he wore a short, trim beard,
and had an eye-glass tightly screwed into his
right eye. He spoke in a low, deliberate voice,
pronouncing his vowels very broadly, and was
a shade too conscious of being the most distinguished
person present. It may be that
Yidal was also somewhat disappointed by the
reception accorded to him. He had been prepared
for a cordial shake of the hand, and
possibly a graceful reference to his book ; but
all that he got from the great man was a bow,
accompanied by an indistinct murmur ; and
then Egerton said briskly, ' Well, suppose we
%o in to dinner.'

When the four men were seated in the
spacious strangers' room, and were doing justice
to the cooking, for which the Acropolis enjoys
a well-deserved celebrity, Mr. Pilkington began
to talk, and talked pleasantly enough upon a
variety of subjects, of which literature was not
one. Indeed, he seemed disinclined to enter
upon this particular topic, and ignored several
attempts on the part of his good-humoured
host to introduce it. He had the placid air of
being assured that what he said would be
listened to which characterises superior beings.
He spoke with a polished fluency that reminded
Vidal very much of his writings ; he could
count upon at least one appreciative hearer in
Egerton, and paid little heed to the occasional
caustic comments with which Kean broke in
upon his periods. When these interruptions
occurred Pilkington paused for a moment,
smiled courteously, and then resumed his discourse,
without making any direct reply.

Evidently, he did not think much of Kean, and
somehow or other, it seemed rather as if Kean
did not think much of him. It was not until
dinner was nearly over that a question of
Egerton's caused him to say a few words about
the craft to which three out of this party of
four belonged ; and then Vidal obtained the
little compliment that he had ceased to expect.

By the way, Pilkington, how did you

like 's book ? ' Egerton asked, referring to

a novel which had recently appeared and
wych had created some sensation, less by
reason of intrinsic merits than of the sweeping
indictment which it contained against the
morality of the age.

Pilkington leant back in his chair and
balanced his dessert-knife upon his fore-finger.
I should say,' he replied, in his quiet, deliberate
way, ' that had better stick to

the kind of writing by which he made his
name, and let novels alone. He has a certain

smartness — a certain facility : he treats the
problems of life with that sort of light-heartiness
which is always welcomed by people who
like to have their thinking done for them ; but
he seems to be entirely wanting in creative
power. His novel is not a true picture of the
men and women of the day, and what is worse
is that it is unpleasing. Nowadays we don't
like coarse attacks and knock-down blows.
The kind of hard hitting that amused our
fathers, offends us ; and it would be almost as
disagreeable to us to read such another onslaught
as Macaulay made upon Robert Montgomery
as to see a man throw a glass of wine
in his neighbour's face. The present generation
is sometimes accused of being too thin-skinned
to appreciate satire. I should venture to doubt
the justice of that accusation ; but I am sure
that it's now more than ever a necessary
condition of satire that it should have some
humour in it, and also some kindliness. To be

effective, it must be such satire as Thackeray's
or as yours,' he added, with a little bow to
the young man who was sitting opposite to
him.

Adrian felt himself reddening with pleasure.
The speaker might not, and probably did not,
intend that too literal an inference should be
drawn from his remark ; but that incidental
coupling of Yidal's name with Thackeray's was
certainly a very pretty way of acknowledging
such merits as the former might possess.
Egerton stretched out his left leg and stealthily
kicked his young friend under the table, as
who should say, ' There ! I hope you're satisfied
with that ! ' Kean threw back his head,
widened his mouth from ear to ear, and contemplated
the ceiling.

Thinking over this pantomime afterwards,
Adrian was led to conclude that Mr. Kean
either did not believe in Pilkington's sincerity
or differed from him in opinion. Upon the

whole, he did not particularly like Mr. Kean.
Towards Pilkington, on the other hand, he
child not help feeling drawn ; and after an
adjournment had been made to the smoking-room,
he was glad to find himself alone fora
few minutes with that gentleman, Egerton
having (not without intention, probably) taken
away his other guest to examine some ventilators
which had lately been put up.

Pilkino'ton said at once what Adrian had
half hoped that he might be going to say. ' I
don't know whether any one has told you, Mr.
Vidal, that I have been asked to undertake the
editorship of a new magazine.'

I heard something about it,' answered
Vidal.

I say a magazine,' the other went on. ' for
want of a better name : but in reality our new
venture will be more or less sid generis. It
will have something of the magazine in it ; but
it will also have something the review and

something of the newspaper. What I wish todo
is to provide people with a sort of — er —
survey of each month as it comes to an end.
Not, of course, a mere resume of events ; but a
series of articles, written by first-class men, on
what is taking place in literature, science, art.
and society. I had at first thought of excluding
politics ; but I begin to see that this is scarcely
practicable. There will, therefore, be a political
article, which I shall undertake myself —
not because I feel any special aptitude that
way, but because, oddly enough, I cannot lay
my hand upon a single other man who is wholly
free from party bias. In this, as in all other
departments, I am anxious that the paper
should take an attitude of absolute independence.
Each writer will express his own views
and sign his own name at the foot of them. I
think I can say that in every instance the name
signed sill at least be a guarantee of competence.
The articles will be shorter, lighter,

and far more numerous than those of the
ordinary half-crown magazine. Perhaps 1 may
add that they will also be more readable : at
all events, it will be our aim to make them so.
In addition to these articles, I have consented
somewhat unwillingly, I must confess — to
publish a serial story ; and I am in hopes that
some day you may be induced to let us have a
novel from your pen. At present I am too
deeply pledged to make further arrangements
in that direction ; but I should be glad if you
saw your way to join us as a permanent
member of our staff. In that case I should
ask you to furnish us with a monthly article on
current light literature, English, French, and
American.'

There was a short pause, during which
Pilkington sipped his coffee and blew a cloud
of smoke from the cigarette which he held
between his fingers. Then Adrian said — what
was indeed the truth — that he felt exceedingly

flattered by the offer made to him, and asked
nothing better than to accept it. ' But,' he
added, with a slight kiugh, ' I am afraid my
name can't be considered as one of those which
are a guarantee of competence.'

Pilkington waved his hand and smiled
pleasantly. ' You must allow me to hold a
different opinion,' he replied. ' It is true that
you have done nothing yet in the way of
criticism — or at least, if you have, I have no
knowledge of the fact ; but I have the vanity
to think that I can judge of a man's capabilities
without asking him for direct evidence of them.
From what I have seen of your writings, I am
satisfied that you will suit us, if our terms suit
you.'

He then named the terms in question, which
struck Adrian as extremely liberal, and the
bargain was concluded just as the two other
men returned. Pilkington did not think it
necessary to change the subject.

I have been persuading Mr. Vidal to give
us his co-operation in our new magazine,' he
remarked.

Dear me ! ' cried Egerton. ' Vidal, I congratulate
you ; it's a grand opening. Not that
you need an opening ; still it isn't every one
who would have such a chance given him, you
know.'

You may congratulate me too, if you Hke,'
said Pilkington, with ready tact ; whereupon
his friend responded heartily, ' Of coin-se — of
course ! congratulate you both most sincerely.'

Oh, ah ! — the new magazine,' murmured
Kean, dropping his long, gaunt person ito an
arm-chair. ' I'm in it too, ain't I, Wilmington?'


As an occasional contributor,' replied that
gentleman serenely.

Oh yes : I know I'm only a casual. By
the way, have you hit upon a name for the
thing yet ? '

Well, no,' answered the future editor ; ' I
can't say that I have come to a final decision.
I should have liked to find something that
would convey an idea of the light character of
the publication — because, although we shall
have to treat of serious subjects, we don't want
to be heavy — but, unfortunately, all the best
titles have been appropriated. " Figaro," for
instance, would have suited us very well — or
the " Owl." '

Why not the " Ostrich ". .^ ' suggested Kean.
The omnivorous ostrich — he's the bird for
you. Politics, fiction, science, slander — buns,
broken glass, tenpenny nails — nothing comes
amiss to him. Call it the " Ostrich," Pilkmgton.'

I'm afraid that wouldn't do,' said Wilmington.
' The ostrich is chiefly known to the
public for habits which we should be sorry to
impute to ourselves as clear-sighted observers.'

Well, then,' said the other, ' let's ring fora
dictionary, and search it through till we get

an idea. Tve tried that plan before now with
the happiest results.' And he suited the action
to the word.

It seemed possible that Mr. Kean had taken
just half a glass too much champagne. His
tone evinced a disrespectful tendency to make
fun of the new magazine, if not of its promoter.
But Pilkington remained unruffled. It woukl
have taken a very different man from Kean to
disturb his courtesy, this kindly toleration of
human folly, his modest but firm belief in
himself.

I don't know that names are of any great
importance,' he continued ; ' the generality
of newspapers and magazines have names
which are comparatively meaningless. Still,
in choosing a new one, it would be desirable,
if it were possible, to give some sort of clue to
one's intention.'

'Just so,' agreed Egerton. 'Now you, I
take it, want to be understood as intelligent

and disinterested spectators of what is going on
around you. In short, a band of cultured men
and men of the world, associated together for
the purpose of — of — well, for journalistic pm
poses ; but tied down to no special line, and
ready to judge every question upon its merits.'

Yes ; but, importunately, you cant very
well put all that into one word,' said Pilkington.
'All things considered, I am afraid we shall
have to content ourselves with a pis-aller.
The " Empire " has been suggested to me, and
also " Great Britain ; ' but I am inclined to
something more inclusive — the " Anglo-saxon,"
for example. But really it does not much
signify.'

'The "Anglo-saxon" would take in America
and the colonies,' observed Egerton thoughtful.


\'\"lio might otherwise consider themselves
sighted,' broke in Kean, looking up from the
dictionary which he had been studying. • I've

VOL. II. D

ADRIAN VIDAL

got lots of good names here, though. The A's
don't come out very well ; the " Amalgam "
and the " Anomaly " are all I can do for you
in the way of A's ; but we improve as we
go on. I'll just read you out my list : The
Balance " (capital name that for an impartial
]paper. Weigh everybody and find everybody
wanting, you know), the " Butterfly," the
Buttonhole," the " Bore," the '

Oh, I say, Kean, come now ! ' remonstrated
Egerton.

Pilkington preserved his lenient smile as he
rose and bade his host good night. ' I think
we shall have to stick to the " Anglo-saxon," '
he said; 'unless Mr. Vidal can help us to
something better.'

He took the young man familiarly by the
arm and led him towards the door. ' There's
one thing more I had intended to mention.
Our paper will not be the property of any
publishing firm. We considered it best not to

hamper ourselves in that way. The bulk of
the capital is provided by private individuals
who are not themselves literary men ; but all
our permanent contributors have some small
pecuniary interest in the undertaking. In
many ways I think it is well that this should
be so, and if you like to place a trifle — say a
couple of thousand pounds — in our hands, I
hope you will have no cause to regret having
done so.'

Vidal felt rather uncomfortable. Two
thousand pounds was not exactly his notion
of a trifle ; and, as a married man, he doubted
whether he had any business to go in for
sporting investments.

Of course,' continued Pilkington, who was
now getting into his great-coat, 'I c^fti't say
what rate of interest you would receive. It
might be fifty per cent, or it might be five.'

Or it might be nothing,' Vidal ventured to
suggest.

Or it might be nothing. Every new
enterprise is speculative, and cannot be otherwise.
I need not say that you are under no
sort of obligation to run what you may consider
a risk ; and of course it does not signify at all
to us, in a pecuniary sense, whether you accept
our offer or not. My own feeling in the matter
is simply this : that having a money interest,
however small, in a paper helps a man more
than anything else to identify himself with it,
and to put his best work into it.'

He has his salary,' remarked Yidal.

Oh yes ; he has his salary, no doubt.
Well, you can think it over, Mr. Yidal, and let
me know what your wishes are in the course of
a few days. Good night.'

These last words were spoken upon the
door-step of the club, from which Pilkington
was driven away in his brougham. Adrian
perceived that he would have to risk those
two thousand pounds, and he was rather sorry

that he had not at once yielded with a good
grace, instead of seeming to hint at doubts
by which his future chief had evidently been
ever so slightly offended. It would not do to
offend Pilkington, he thought ; but at the same
time he would have preferred to keep his
money in his pocket. Careless and hopeful
though he was, he had enough of commonsense
to be aware that the new magazine micrht
be excellently written and excellently conducted,
and yet fail to establish a footing.
Turning pensively back into the hall he encountered
Kean, who was coming out, and
who proposed to walk as far as Piccadilly
with him.

So you are to do the monthly reviews of
fiction for the "Anglo-saxons"' he remarked
when they were out in the street. ' You never
tried anything of the kind before, I suppose?
Ah, I thought not. It's an original idea, that
of Pilkington's, to put all his square men into

the round holes, and I shouldn't wonder if it
were to take. A sonnet by an eminent scientific
writer, a serial story by a bishop, and soon,
ought to tickle the fancy of the jaded
public, eh ? Pilkington isn't quite the Solomon
that he gets credit for being ; but he's no fool
either.'

Do you think the " Anglo-saxon " is likely
to pay ? ' asked Yidal, who was more interested
for the moment in this question than in Mr.
Pilkington's reputation.

'I don't know why it shouldn't. It's a
novelty — neither fish, flesh, nor good red
herring ; and the first few numbers are sure to
be read. We shall know more about it by
this time next year ; but at present I should
say it had a fair chance of success. Personally,
I don't much care whether it sinks or swims.'

The difference between us,' thought Yidal,
is that I do.' But he did not say this, and ashe

drove homewards he took some comfort
from the thought that, since all the contributors
were in the same boat, they would, as their
editor had astutely observed, certainly do their
best to keep it afloat.

CHAPTEE XVII.

AN AWKWARD ENCOUNTER.

To be the author of a novel which for a few
months is in everybody's hands is after all no
great matter. Verj^ many persons have accomplished
that much and have continued in a
state of social obscurity from which it has
occurred to nobody to drag them. But Adrian
Vidal, having certain special circumstances in
his favour, neither desired nor was suffered to
remain obscure. When the east winds of
spring were blowing clouds of smoke from the
city and of dust along Piccadilly ; when the
black trees in the London squares were beginning
to show touches of green here and there ;
nd when people who had daughters to present

were coming up for the first Drawing-rooms of
the season, this fortunate young writer found
himself so much in request that he could hardly
have been made more of if he had been a successful
general or a popular actor. He assured
Clare, laughingly, that he never before had any
conception of the number of people that there
were in London, or of the quantity of entertainments
that they gave. He did not weary
of dinners and compliments, and it must be
owned that he could swallow a large share of
both without risk of indigestion. The stereotyped
phrases ; the smiling countenances which
were so curiously like one another ; the letters
from unknown correspondents, which probably
every novelist receives, and which begin with
Dear Sir, — Although personally a stranger to
you, I cannot resist,' &c. ; all these things were
a delight to him. He estimated them neither
above nor below their proper value, but took
them for just what they were worth — evidences

that he had given pleasure to a certain number
of his fellow creatures ; that he had amused,
and had not bored them. And that, when all
has been said upon the subject that can be said,
remains the chief aim of fiction. Yidal was
satisfied with his attainment of it. He felt that
he owed a debt of gratitude to a world which
had brought him so much happiness, and which
he so sincerely loved. To have partly discharged
that debt by the exercise of the
humble talents with which the gods had gifted
him was surely something. And being in this
mood of universal benevolence, it was only in
the nature of things that he should find his

o

good will reflected back upon him ; so that
for the time being he wended his way along a
flowery path, thinking no evil and fearing
none.

But, alas ! what is one man's meat is
another man's poison, and the bricks and
mortar which are so dear to some of us are

mere prison walls to others. In the full swing
of excitements that to her were no longer
exciting, in the heated, scented atmosphere of
ball-rooms, and amid the ceaseless chatter of
tongues and clatter of knives and forks, Clare
was pining for the Cornish moors, and for a
breath of the pure salt air that sweeps over
them from the Atlantic. Trite modes of
speech did not come to her easily ; she had not
acquired the art of conversation as it is understood
by those who have few interests in
common : glad as she was that her husband
should be appreciated, the perpetual eulogy of
his work ended by palling upon her. Thus,
although Mrs. Yidal's beauty was undeniable.
it was pretty generally agreed that there was
not much in her. That, under these circumstances,
she should have been a good deal left
to herself was not surprising, and gave her
little concern. What did cause her something
like an incipient heartache was the fear, which

she could not always stifle, that Adrian was
slowly but surely drifting away from her. To
all outward appearance he was as fond of her
as he had ever been ; she had nothing to complain
of in the way of words or looks. But had
not that subtle inward change already set in ?
that change which none can welcome and
none resist — the change from the love of the
lover to the love of the husband. She was
afraid of it ; she did not know how to arrest
it ; she grudged the long hours spent away
from home, and the solitude a deux which he
seemed to reset so little.

One evening she was at a crowded party,
looking pale and languid, and longing for
Adrian to give her his customary signal to
retreat, when, among the strange faces that
surrounded her, there suddenly appeared loue
which brought a faint tinge of colour into her
own. She had not seen Mr. Wilbraham since
he had parted from her on the quay at

Lucerne ; her final rejection of his offer had
been conveyed by post, and had excited only a
brief reply, in which the writer had expressed
himself with something of the formality of one
who suspects that he has been supplanted.
With that he had passed out of her thoughts
and, as she supposed, out of her life for ever.
But now here he was standing before her, and
for a moment she hesitated whether to greet
him or not. It was only for a moment. Reflecting
that this might probably be but the
first of many such encounters, and that it
would be very stupid to create an awkwardness
at the outset, she advanced a step or two,
holding out her hand and saying, ' How do
you do, Mr. Wilbraham ? I am so glad to meet
you again.'

Wilbraham started, and looked at her
fixedly. He was a tall, well-built man, with a
healthy red-brown complexion, and did not
bear the appearance of being consumed by a

hopeless passion. ' I don't know that I am
glad,' he answered gravely.

However, he took her hand, and then, as
she retreated towards the sofa from which she
had just risen, he followed her and seated himself
in the vacant place by her side. There
was an uncomfortable pause of a few seconds ;
after which Wilbraham said, ' I didn't mean
to be rude, Mrs. Yidal ; but if I was, perhaps
you will forgive me. Some people can suffer
in silence : T can't. So after this I shan't often
speak to you, and you will understand why.'

Clare began to wish that she had contented
herself with bowing to her former admirer. ' I
was very sorry,' she murmured, not knowing
well what to say.

Oh, you couldn't help it. It was my
misfortune, but nobody's fault. We won't
talk about that. They are making a hon of
your husband, I hear.'

Almost too much of a lion,' answered

Clare, with a laugh and a sigh. ' I don't care
for such constant racketing about ; although of
course I am glad to think that his book has
succeeded beyond our utmost hopes. Have
you read it ? '

Yes — I read it,' replied Wilbraham, with
a certain hesitation. His manner said so
clearly, 'And I didn't like it,' that Clare
rather indignantly asked, ' Why didn't you
like it?'

I did — in a way. I thought it a capital
story, and very well written — only I wish he
hadn't put you into it.'

Put me into it ? I don't understand you,'
said Clare.

Wilbraham stared. ' Do you mean to tell
me that you don't recognise yourself in the
heroine ? Why, it is you to the life ! '

I am sure you are mistaken,' answered
Clare. ' The heroine is a thousand times too
good for me, and I don't think it would ever

have struck Adrian to take me as his model.
But if he had, I shouki have been very much
flattered. It would have been a great compliment.'


'Ah, well; perhaps so,' said Wilbraham.
I am prejudiced, I suppose ; but to me there
is something unpleasant in the idea of setting
up a picture of your wife for the public to
gape at. That is the worst of authors and
artists. They lead a sort of double life, and inmost
cases, I think, the public half of it engrosses
them more than the private. Everything
that they see and hear, and everything
that happens to them, is so much material to
be worked up for future sale. I doubt whether
their wives are often happy women.'

Clare was ready to pardon a good deal
in Mr. Wilbraham, to whom she was conscious
that she had not behaved over and above well ;
but this speech seemed to her to border upon
impertinence, and it was with an air of cold

surprise that she answered, ' I assure you I am
perfectly happy.'

It was on the tip of her companion's tongue
to retort, ' You don't look so ; ' but he forbore.
All that he said, after a short interval of silence,
was, ' You see, Mrs. Vidal, it doesn't do forme
to talk to you. I can't keep my lips from
evil-speaking. If I were magnanimous, I should
congratulate you and say something pretty
about your husband ; but I suppose I am not
magnanimous. Honestly, I don't like your
husband ; though I don't know him. And I
don't want to know him.'

It was at this opportune juncture that Yidal
approached the sofa upon which his wife was
seated. He had recognised, not without some
inward amusement, the broad shoulders which
he had first seen from the window of his bedroom
at Lucerne, anil which had caused hin
to pass a bad five minutes there. He was glad
to see that no ill-feeling existed between Clare

VOL. II. E

and her rejected suitor ; and so far was he
from suspecting that gentleman's uncompromising
hostility to himself, that he had strolled up
for the express purpose of obtaining an introduction
to him.

After what Wilbraham had said, Clare was
not very willing to perform this ceremony ;
but when the two men were standing side by
side she could hardly help making them known
to one another, and she did so accordingly.
Adrian bowed and half held out his hand, but
withdrew it on perceiving that the other made
no corresponding motion. He did not, however,
imagine that Wilbraham intended to be
unfriendly.

We have met before,' he said pleasantly,
though only for a moment. You were at
Lucerne last year, you know, and so was I ;
but I think you didn't stay more than one
night.'

I heard afterwards that you had been

there,' answered Mr. Wilbraliam stiffly ; ' I
didn't see you at the time. — I think I must be
moving on now, Mrs. Vida ; it's getting late.
Good-night.' He shook hands with Clare,
favoured her husband with a nod and a grunt,
and made his way towards the door.

Your friend may have many sterling qualities,
but his manners are not prepossessing,' remarked
Adrian, with a laugh, when he and his
wife were at home again.

Clare was lying back in a low arm-chair,
her cheek supported by her hand. She glanced
up, half apprehensively, at her husband, who
was refreshing himself with a cooling drink
after the fatigues of the evening. ' He was
rather grumpy,' she said ; ' but you know,
dear, you couldn't expect him to take very
kindly to you just at first, could you ? '

Yidal threw up his eyes and his hands.
Oh the vanity of these women ! Do you
suppose, madam, that that hale and hearty

E 2

IIBR/\RY

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois

Philistine is pining away because you wouldn't
marry him ? Do you think, pray, that after
this long interval of time he is still in love
with you ? '

I know he is,' replied Clare quietly,
because he told me so.'

He did, did he? Upon my Avoid, you area
nice young woman ! May I ask whether
this is the sort of discourse that you are in
the habit of listening to when you retire so
modestly into the background at evening
parties ? One more illusion gone ! I shall
never believe in the pristine innocence of
Cornwall again.'

Oh, Adrian ! ' exclaimed Clare, in a low
voice.

Her face was shaded by her hand. He
stooped down, laughing, to look at it, and
saw, to his amazement, that her lips were
quivering, and that two big tears were ready
to fall from her eyelashes, ' Why, my dear

child,' he cried, 'what is the matter? You
can't think that I meant anything more than
the most harmless of small jokes ! As if I
wouldn't trust you with a thousand Wil bra-hams
! Good heavens ! Clare, what absurd
notion have you got into your head ? '

He was sorry that he should unwittingly
have distressed her ; but he was also just a
little bit provoked. To the male mind nothing
is more incomprehensible than those sudden,
causeless bursts of emotion in which women
find relief for feelings of which we have no
experience. A man doesn't, as a rule, shed
tears unless he has something to cry about.

Clare made no reply, but when her husband
bent over her and kissed her on the forehead,
she placed her hands upon his shoulders and
forced him gently down on to a footstool
beside her. Then she threw her arms round
his neck and began to weep hysterically. ' It's
very silly, I know,' she sobbed out, ' but I

can't help it — I am so tired I Adrian, I want
to ask you something — it was something Mr.
Wilbraham said — and I am sure he didn't
think it would hurt me — but he was talking
about your book, and he said — he said the
heroine was like m^

Adrian could not li3lp laughing a little.
I am afraid I must plead guilty to having
occasionally thought the same thing myself,' he
answered. ' My heroine was intended to be as
near perfection as possible, and I suppose that
is why I have sometimes compared her to you
in my mind. Was that an offence ? '

Oh no ; only he said — and I remember
having heard that before — that authors live as
much in their books as in real life ; and
perhaps — perhaps in the long run they get to
care about the books most. The people in the
books don't worry them ; they don't make
fools of themselves, and cry about nothing ;
when they are bores they can be put away on

the shelf — Clare broke off, straightened herself
a little in her chair, and looked into her
husband's face. ' I don't want to lose you ! '
she exclaimed piteously.

Well, certainly this was rather ridiculous.
If your wife is to begin being jealous of fictitious
personages, where is she likely to stop ?
Eeally, Clare,' remonstrated Adrian, ' you are
not reasonable. What do you wish me to do ?
To give up writing novels altogether ? '

No, no ! ' she answered, drying her eyes ;
of course not. I know I am not reasonable,
and I can't say what I wish. Don't mind me.'

Come ! ' said Adrian ; ' there is something
more than this upon your mind, only you won't
speak it out, because you are a little goose.'
He put his arm round her and drew her head
down upon his shoulder. * Tell me all about
it,' he whispered.

But Clare could not tell him all about it
just at once. It was only by degrees and

with some incoherence that she confessed her
various troubles — her wish that they could be
more together, her dread of the allurements
of society, and so forth. • Sometimes horrid
thoughts come into my mind,' she murmured,
and I can't drive them away. You know so
much more of the world than I do ; and — and
what your mother said at Brighton '

What did my mother say ? ' interrupted
Adrian, with a shade of sternness in his voice.

Nothing that I ought to have given a
second thought to. It was only about your
having had some flirtations before you where
married. I suppose all men have flirtations.
But she said that, as it happened so often, it
was sure to happen again.'

The young man rose to his feet, and took a
turn or two up and down the room. He was
thinking how thankful he ouorht to be to
Heaven for having given him so amiable and
considerate a mother. It also occurred to him

that a little more trust on the part of his wife
would not have been amiss. ' Clare,' he said
gently, at length, ' don't you think it will be
time enough to distress yourself and me when
I have given you some cause to do so ? '

The justice of this plea was not to be
denied. Clare admitted herself in the wrong,
and begged forgiveness. 'Please, Adrian, don't
think any more about what I said,' she entreated.
' I will never do it assail if I can
help it. I shouldn't have done it now if I had
been myself, but I am not well.'

In truth, she was not well ; and there were
reasons for this with which Adrian was acquainted
— reasons which were doubtless sufficient
to account for a little fancifulness, and
also to render over-fatigue an undesirable thing
for the patient. After that evening Mrs. Vidal
went no more into society, the doctor having
advised fresh air and early hours. Adrian
offered to refuse all invitations for the future ;

but perhaps he was not very sorry that his
wife would not hear of his making such a
sacrifice.

It wouldn't be a sacrifice,' he said ; ' but I
am not sure that I should be quite wise to let
myself be forgotten. These people are my
public, you see, and I want to stand well with
them. Great novelists — men who appeal to
the passions and emotions that are common to
all humanity — can afford to snap their fingers
at the fashionable world. They are always
sure of a hearing. But it isn't so with me ; or
at any rate, if it has been so in the case of one
novel, it is not likely to be so again. I can't
hope to be found permanently interesting
outside a certain circle ; and within the limits
of that circle I shall be ten times more read if
I go about and show myself than I should be if
I were never seen.'

Fortified by this reasoning, in which it must
be admitted that there was a germ of truth, Mr.

Vidal continued to be a welcome seest at the
houses of the rich and great, and his wife did
not vex him with any repetition of the painful
and uncalled-for scene which has just been
described. In the afternoons he generally took
her out for a walk or a drive ; in the mornings
he worked hard ; and often, when lie came in
late at night, he would sit up for an hour or
two, correcting and revising what he had
written. He had composed his article for the
first number of the ' Anglo-saxon,' which was
just about to appear, and had been blandly congratulated
upon it by the editor of that journal.
The hurry and stress of his life, which to many
men would have been simply unendurable,
suited him exactly. He throve under it both
in health and spirits ; he would not have
changed places with the most wealthy of his
entertainers ; in short, he was at this time so
perfectly prosperous and happy that, if he had
been of a superstitious turn, he might have

feared that some misfortune was in store for
him.

By way of proof that the lot of no mortal is
wholly exempt from care, a rather disagreeable
thing happened to him, late one afternoon as he
was leaving his club. Some one who had seen
him enter that establishment a quarter of an
hour before, and had loitered patiently up and
down Pall Mall until he came out again,
followed him as he hurried towards the St.
James's Park station of the underground railway,
by which he was in tie habit of returning
homewards, and caught him up just after he had
passed Marlborough House. She was a handsome
stoutish woman, with large black eyes
and a fresh complexion. Her appearance was
hardly that of a lady, although at a first glance
she might almost have passed as one, for she
was well and quietly dressed, and only certain
deficiencies about the extremities would have
betrayed her to one of her own sex. Her voice.

too, when she addressed the object of her
pursuit, was the voice of an educated person,
harsh though it sounded at that particular
moment.

I've a word or two to say to you,' was her
greeting, uttered somewhat imperiously, and
she accompanied it by a smart tap upon Adrian's
arm which caused him to start and wheel round
at once.

Susan ! ' he exclaimed ; and his tone expressed
more astonishment than delight.

Susan it is,' replied the woman with the
black eyes. ' Susan Bowman, at your service,
]vit. Adrian Tidal.'

Still Susan Bowman ? ' he asked, endeavouring
to speak pleasantly.

Still Susan Bowman, and likely to remain
so — thanks to you.'

Vidal stroked his moustache and looked
furtively up and down the Mall. He perceived
that this interview was going to be a stormy

one, and he had no wish to be accosted by any
of his acquaintances while it lasted. ' I am
rather in a hurry,' he remarked ; ' still, if you
really have anything particular to say to me,
Susan '

Susan nodded her head emphatically to
signify that she had.

Well, then, we may as well go into the
Park and sit down. We can't talk very comfortably
here.'

As you please,' returned the other. ^ I'm
not ashamed to be seen by anybody ; but I
dare say you are. You've reason enough to
feel ashamed of yourself, any way.'

Vidal did not defend himself against this
accusation. He led the way silently into St.
James's Park, sought out as sequestered a bench
as could be found there, and when his companion
was seated beside him, took up a conciliatory
tone. ' Now, Susan, I hope there is
no reason why you and I should not talk together

for a few minutes without quarrelling. I
am sorry you think that I ought to be ashamed
of myself '

Don't you think so ? ' interrupted the
woman quietly.

Yes,' answered Adrian, after a moment of
consideration. ' One ought always to be ashamed
of having been a fool, and I certainly made a
great fool of myself about you. But I suppose
that is not what you mean.'

Not exactly. What I mean is that, if you
had any shame in you, you would be ashamed
of having ruined a poor girl who trusted you
too well.'

That is nonsense,' returned Adrian, rather
sharply, ' and you know it. What is the use of
saying such things P '

Did you swear to me, over and over
again, that you loved me ? ' demanded the

woman

Yes, I'm afraid I did,' answered Adrian,

with a retrospective shudder which he would
have done more wisely to repress.

Did you promise to marry me ? '

Oh yes.'

And did you go back from your word and
desert me ? '

I admit it all, Susan ; I have never denied
it. But that is not what is generally meant by
ruining a girl'

•''Isn't it, indeed?' retorted Susan, with a
short laugh. 'In my rank of life we think
ourselves pretty well ruined when our character
is taken away ; and your mother turned me
out of doors without a character. That was
nothing to you, of course. You got rid of me,
and it wasn't worth while to inquire whether I
starved, or what became of me. A lady's-maid
who is silly enough to believe in the honour of
a gentleman deserves all that she gets. Isn't
that so ? '

Adrian's conscience smote him. He knew

that this woman had been nothing but a
schemer, and that he, when a raw lad, had
only been saved from becoming her dupe by
Heriot's intervention. To say that he had deceived
and deserted her was so misleading a
statement of the truth as to be virtually false ;
but it was quite true that he had never troubled
himself to ask or think about what her fate was
likely to be after she had been removed from
his path ; and this, now that he came to reflect
upon it, did not seem to have been altogether
creditable conduct.

^ Well, you know, Susan,' he said, ' I acted
as I was advised to act. It was thought better
that I should break off all communication with
you. I never supposed that my mother had
refused to give you a character.'

I dare say she'd have told you, if you'd
asked her,' observed Susan curtly. '^As for
acting as you were advised, I wouldn't boast of

VOL, II, F

that if I were you. Why didn't you take
advice before you made love to me ? '

Now, it was undoubtedly Susan who had
initiated the love-making ; but Adrian did not
care to urge this or other pleas that might have
been brought forward in his defence. 'Let it
be agreed that I behaved ill about the whole
business,' he said, a little impatiently. ' I presume
you haven't sought me out after all these
years to reproach me with what is done and
can't be undone. It would be more to the
purpose to tell me whether I can be of any
assistance to you in the present.'

Oh, I'm not in want of five shillings, thank
you,' answered Susan, with a harsh laugh.
I've supported myself up to now without your
help, and I shouldn't wonder if I managed to
go on. " All these years," indeed ! — do you
know what I've been doing all these years ?
Why, I've been educating myself to be fit to
be your wife. Yes, I didn't give up hope ;

because, you see, I didn't know that your word
counted for nothing. Ashen we parted, you
were too young to fight against your mother
and your friends — Mr. Heriot showed me that
plainly enough. I don't bear any malice
against him ; he treated me fairly and helped
me with money out of his own pocket ; and it
wasn't to be expected that he should wish you
to marry a lady's-maid. But I thought to myself
that things would be different some day.
I've always been a little above the class that I
was born into, and I knew that by the time
you were able to think about marrying, I could
make myself into as good a lady as any of

them. And so-what are you laughing

at ? ' she asked, interrupting herself, and fixing
a pair of angry black eyes upon Adrian's face.

I was not laughing,' he said.

You he ! ' shouted the woman, with a
sudden outbreak of ferocity. ' I saw you
laugh.'

p2

For a moment she looked very much as if
she might be about to produce a knife or a
revolver ; but this mood left her as abruptly
as it had come, and she went on in her former
ironical tone : ' Well, it was a curious notion
for such a low-born creature to delude herself
with ; but I have been taken for a lady before
now, all the same. I was in a situation as
nursery governess not so long ago.'

How on earth did you contrive that ? '
asked Adrian.

Never you mind ; that doesn't concern
you. I didn't keep the situation long ; but I
gave it up of my own free will, and I'm a
lady's-maid again now, because I prefer it.
I've had my ups and downs, and more than
once I've been nearer the workhouse than I
liked ; but I kept a good heart through it all
till I heard of your marriage.' She paused a
moment, and then added in a lower voice, ' I
heard it too late or I'd have stopped it.'

It is absurd to talk like that,' said Adrian.
You must know perfectly well that you
couldn't have stopped it.'

Couldn't I ? I should have tried, anyhow.
You sit there, with your nose in the air, looking
at me as if I were a beggar ; but you can't have
forgotten what we were to each other once.
Do you remember holding me in your arms
and kissing me and calling me your darling?
Do you remember swearing that you would
stick to me through thick and thin ? Do you
remember that ? '

Well, he did remember it ; and a most unpleasant
recollection it was. He stole a glance
at the handsome face beside him, which had
once been more youthful, but which must
always have been coarse, and the sense of
shame and self-disgust which made him tingle
all over was not of the kind that Susan desired
to arouse in him. How Adrian, who was
fastidious and refined in his tastes, had ever

fallen in love with this dreadful person is one
of those mysteries of human nature into which
there is no occasion to pry too closely ; but he
had been in love with her, and he could not
help being angry with her for reminding him
of the fact in so very plain-spoken a way.

I don't want to talk about that time,' he
said. ' I was young and foolish then, and I did
a great many things that I had better have left
undone. Fortunately for both you and me, I was
prevented from carrying my folly to the pitch
of insanity. You can hardly imagine that we
should have been happy as husband and wife ? '

But, you see, that is just what I do imagine,'
returned Susan. ' I know I wasn't fit for you
in those days ; but I've read and studied to
make myself fit for you, and I'm no fool. You
would have been as happy with me as with the
woman you've married. By all accounts, she
hasn't got much to show for herself beyond a
pretty face.'

Now look here, Susan,' said Adrian, ' I
have listened to you patiently so far, but I
don't care to have your opinion about my wife.
Leave her alone, please, and tell me what you
want of me.'

Want of you ? ' repeated Susan, looking
away, and seeming to speak more to herself
than to her questioner. ' Ah, I can't say. I
don't know exactly what I wanted of you when
I followed you just now. But,' she added,
turning upon him with a rather unpleasant
smile, ' there's such a thing as revenge, Mr.
Yidal; and I shouldn't mind paying you out
for what you've made me suffer. Perhaps
your wife isn't aware that you were once engaged
to be married to one Susan Bowman.
Ah, she isn't ! — I thought not. Well, supposing
I were to walk up to Alexandra Gardens, where
you live, some fine morning, and tell her the
whole of that pretty story ? How should you
like that ? '

I shouldn't like it at all,' answered Adrian
candidly. ' It would cause both her and nie
annoyance, and would do you no good in the
world that I can see.'

I want to cause you annoyance,' returned
Susan placidly ; ' and that's why I shall be at
your house in Alexandra Gardens before I'm
much older.'

Now, there was a very' simple and obvious
way of taking aU the sting out of this menace ;
but, unfortunately, Yidal could not bring himself
to adopt it. Knowing how easily Clare's
jealousy was aroused, and remembering what
her state of health was, he felt that it would
never do to tell her now what, possibly, he
ought to have told her before. It would, of
course, be highly illogical on her part to hold
herself personally aggrieved by any faults or
follies that he might have committed years
before he had ever seen her ; but the art of
just reasoning is not a feminine attribute, and

Clare had lately shown herself somewhat remarkably
devoid of it. Moreover, at the
bottom of his heart there lurked a strong disinclination
to confess that he had once been
eager to link himself for life to a domestic
servant. Taking everything into consideration,
therefore, it seemed to him the best plan to
offer Susan all the money he had about him to
leave him in peace.

He did this with as much delicacy as the
case admitted of, and, rather to his surprise,
Susan accepted his bribe at once. ' You must
be very much afraid of your wife,' was her
sole comment upon the transfer of eight pounds
ten shillings from Adrian's pocket to her own.

I am afraid of giving her pain,' answered
Adrian briefly. ' And now I must wish you
good-night,' he added, getting up. ' It is a
pity you didn't tell me at the outset that you
needed money ; for I Avould very gladly have
given you what I could afford, without being

threatened. I am not a rich man ; but I have
always thought that something ought to have
been done for you, and I hope that if you are
ever in want again, you will let me know.
You had better address your letter to my club.
Good-night, Susan, and good-bye. I trust it
won't be very long before you meet some good
fellow in your own — that is, some one much
better suited to be your husband than I could
ever have been.'

He hastened towards the railway station,
feeling greatly relieved and somewhat tickled
by this commonplace termination to an interview
which had at one time seemed likely to
enter upon a tragic phase. He might have
been less easy in his mind had he known that
Susan, when left alone, stood for full five
minutes on the little bridge in St. James's Park,
debating whether she should drop his money
into the water or not. That she finally decided

to keep it proved nothing, except a proper
dislike on her part of wanton waste.

So you think eight pound ten and a few
civil insults payment enough for the likes of
me, do you ? ' she muttered as she resumed
her walk. ' Very well ! But I'll be even with
you yet, my gentleman. Thank you for
showing me how to set about it.'

CHAPTEE XVIII.
Susan's revenge.

While Miss Susan Bowman was hatching
schemes of vengeance, and brushing her mistress's
hair with unnecessary violence ; while
the select portion of the public which calls
itself society was criticising the first number of
the ' Anglo-saxon ' ; and while one of the contributors
to that journal was complacently
telling himself twenty times a day that the
world was a pleasant place to live in, Mrs.
Adrian Vidal was chiefly occupied in stitching
at certain diminutive garments, which were
hastily thrust under the sofa cushions when a
visitor was announced.

We are often told that approaching maternity

brings with it a peculiarly ennobling and
purifying influence — that a woman is never
nearer Heaven than when this prospect opens
before her, and a good deal more to the like
effect. All this may be — and we will hope
that it is — perfectly true. We may concede
that a woman who doesn't like babies is an
unnatural and rather shocking sort of woman ,
and yet we may be allowed to doubt whether
many women, when they marry, bestow much
thought upon the ordinary consequence of
marriage. Clare, at any rate, had not done so.
This sitting at home, while her husband went out
into the world, this anxious conning of household
bills, this solitary and often apprehensive
waiting for the unknown — well, perhaps it was
the natural and fitting life for her to lead ; but
it was not the life she had dreamt of on sunny
summer days at Polruth. There were times
when she was desperately lonely, and not a
little homesick. It is not permitted to any one

however young, or however much in love, to
break all at once and altogether with the past ;
and there were many things that Clare missed,
without knowing how much she missed them.
She wanted her kind old fussy mother ; she
wanted the boys ; she wanted space and liberty,
and the fresh, healthy ring of young voices and
laughter about her. And so it came to pass
that from time to time a tear would splash
down upon her sewing, and she had to take
herself severely to task for a discontent which she
acknowledged to be unjustifiable. The failure
of previous dreams to fulfil themselves did not
prevent her from continuing to dream as she
sewed ; and lest she should fall too low in the
estimation of mothers, it may be added that in
these fanciful pictures of the future the coming
tyrant played a very important part. Hope
springs eternal in the human breast ; when one
thing fails, another must needs take its place, or
we could not go on living at all. It may be that

Clare had some unacknowledged consciousness
that ' baby fingers, waxen touches,' must be
accepted as a substitute for certain ideals which
can never be realised in this world.

And, after all, she was not lonely as most
people count loneliness. In these days Adrian
frequently asked a friend or two to dine with
him quietly ; and it was with affectionate
warmth that he congratulated his wife upon the
excellent little dinners which she contrived to set
before them. It pleased Clare that he should be
pleased ; and it also pleased her to make the
acquaintance of the colleagues whom he invited
to his house, and who were entertaining enough
in their way. Some of them had wives, who
called upon her, and every now and then a
lady of fashion who had taken up Mr. Vidal
would remember that Mr. Vidal was a married
man, and would good-naturedly push a voyage
of discovery as far as Alexandra Gardens.

Amongst these was one with whose condescension

Clare could very well have dispensed ;
but she was determined to conquer a distrustfulness
which had caused her to act foolishly
upon a previous occasion, and when Lady St.
Austell, all smiles and geniality, was ushered
into her little drawing-room, she did her best
to respond to the kindness of her visitor's
greeting. Lady St. Austell, who, for her part,
thought Clare singularly uninteresting, disguised
her sentiments as effectively and with as little
exertion as usual.

I have found you out, you see — or rather,
I have found you in, which is so much nicer.
What a pretty house you have got ! I met
your husband the other night, and he told me
your address. Why were you not with him ?

You are not going out just now ? oh — h ! '

Her ladyship took in the situation, and looked
sympathetic and just a shade contemptuous.
She had never herself been debarred from the
pleasures of society by any such cause, and she

felt a sincere pity for less fortunate people. ' I
was hoping that you would dine with us quite
quietly some evening,' she went on ; ' but of

course, if you think you had better not

Perhaps you will spare us Mr. Vidal, though ;
we should be so glad to see him.'

Clare murmured that she was sure her
Island would be most happy, and secretly
hoped that her husband might be prevented
by a previous engagement from accepting the
threatened invitation.

The invitation, however, when it came,
proved to be for an evening on which Adrian
was not engaged, and he drove off to Grosvenor
Square with anticipations of amusement which
were amply fulfilled. Only seven people besides
himself sat down round the oval table,
and probably nobody's enjoyment was interfered
with by the circumstance that the master of
the house, who had gone to Newmarket, was
not one of them. Lady St. Austell's guests

VOL. II. G

were all young, and, judging by their conversation,
were of a cheerful temperament. She
herself was in high spirits, been — as she took
an early opportunity of announcing — overjoyed
to be back in London and among her friends
once more.

After all, there is no [place like it,' she
said. ' One grumbles at London sometimes,
and one is glad enough to get away when the
end of July comes ; but one never really enjoys
life, except by fits and starts, anywhere else.
J\Ir. Yidal agrees with me ; — don't you, Mr.
Vidal ? When I saw him last, he was talking
of settling down in the deepest depths of the
country ; but he has changed his mind, as I
told him he would, and now I hope he won't
think of going into exile again.'

London couldn't get on without mr. Vidal,'
remarked one of Adrian's neighbor's politely.
What would become of the " Anglo-saxon " if it
lost its best man ? '

They had all seen the ' Anglo-saxon,' and
had a great many questions to ask about it,
although they evidently were not people whose
tastes inclined them towards much reading.
If their amiable intention was to give pleasure
to the young writer, they were doubtless rewarded
by perceiving their success. Lady St.
Austell herself addressed the greater part of
her remarks to him, treating him with easy
familiarity, like an old friend. When dinner
was over, she took him away into a corner,
and said, ' Now tell me what you have been
doing since that day when I went out fishing
with you and lost my line. Oh, but I know,
though ; you have been getting married, and
honeymooning, and all that. How glad you
must be that it is over I '

I don't know that I am,' answered Adrian.
Were you glad when your honeymoon was
over ? '

Glad was not the word ! I jumped for

G 2

joy ; and so did Lord St. Austell. At least, he
would have jumped if he hadn't had the gout
so badly. I don't mean to say that it might
not have been different if one had been in
other company, though,' she added pensively.

In Johnny Spencer's, for instance ? '
suggested Adrian, who had found out that he
could say what he liked to this lady.

She looked up interrogatively. ' Johnny
Spencer ? Did I tell you anything about him ? '

Yes ; down at Polruth — don't you remember?
You told me a great deal about
him. Everything, in fact.'

Oh, did I? Well, I am sorry to say that
poor Johnny has become very stupid and dull.
He turned up at Melton in the winter with his
hideous wife, and I was quite shocked at the
change in him. Marriage is the ruin of one's
friends : they might as well die at once, for
any comfort that one gets out of their company
afterwards.'

A nd have you filled up his place ? ' asked
Adrian, risking a second impertinence.

Lady St. Austell sighed. ' Not yet,' she
answered, quite seriously. ' I still consider
myself as being in a sort of ways in mourning
for him ; though perhaps he doesn't deserve it.'
She added, after a moment, ' Were you thinking
of applying for the vacancy ? '

Adrian was really not quite sure whether
she was laughing at him or not ; but he said,
Oh, I am one of those who are as good as
dead, you know. Besides, I doubt whether I
should give satisfaction.'

I am almost afraid you wouldn't,' Lady
St. Austell agreed. ' Li one sense you know
too much, and in another, perhaps, you don't
know quite enough. However, there is no
reason in the world why we should not befriends.'


None — if you honour me so far as to wish
for my friendship.'

Oh, the honour is all the other way. I
have often wished so much to be upon terms
of intimacy with an author ; but, somehow,
authors are generally rather impossible sort of
people, and I have never got beyond distant
civilities with any one of them. You are
different. You belong to one's own class ; or,
at any rate, you behave as if you did.'

'Thank you very much,' said Adrian, who
began to see that Lady St. Austell was quite as
capable of uttering impertinences as of listening
to them.

She laughed. ' Well, you understand what
I mean. A man who knows nobody and goes
nowhere may be a brilliant genius ; but it isn't
very easy to talk to him. Now, with you, I
shall always be able to fall back upon gossip
when I am tired of discussing novels. And
that reminds me to say how much I enjoyed
your last book. Your heroine was charming.
Of course she was Mrs. Vidal ? '

So people tell me,' remarked Adrian. ' I
wasn't aware of it until I was told.'

See what it is to be in love ! But you
must try to fall in love with somebody else
before you write another book, or you won't
be able to give us the variety that we need.
And variety is the thing to struggle after, both
in novels and in real life. Don't you think so?'

When he reached home, Adrian did not
give a verbatim report of this and other speeches
which Lady St. Austell made to him in the-course
of the evening. He thought that they
might be open to misconstruction ; and Clare,
who usually put him through a friendly cross-examination
on his return at night, had not
many questions to ask this time.

To Clare it was a matter of surprise as well
as regret that her husband should like a woman
whom she found so objectionable ; and that he
did like Lady St. Austell was plainly to be seen
from the reserve with which he spoke of her.

k^he attributed this phenomenon in part to the
workings of the artistic nature which, she presumed,
must necessarily be attracted by a good
subject, whether that subject be in itself a
pleasing one or the reverse.

Not long after this a visitor remarked to
her, casually, ' I saw Mr. Vidal in the Park
yesterday afternoon. He was driving in a
victoria with a lady who, I was told, was Lady
St. Austell, the wife of that dreadfully wicked
old man. Is she a friend of yours ? '

'Not exactly a friend,' Clare answered.
We know her because my parents live n«=^ar
Lord St. Austell's place in Cornwall.'

She managed to preserve an appearance of
composure, and to give such information as she
could to her visitor, who was very anxious to
know whether Lord St. Austell was really as
scandalous a person and as cruel a husband ashe
was said to be ; but inwardly she felt as if
an icy hand had been laid upon her heart.

Was Adrian beginning to have concealments
from her, then ? Why had he not told her
that he had been driving with Lady St.
Austell ?

When he came in she put the question to
him tranquilly, but so abruptly that he coloured
and looked guilty. If he had replied, ' Because
you were so silly as to be jealous of her once,'
no harm would have been done ; but he judged
it more prudent to say carelessly, 'Oh, I don't
know ; I didn't think it would interest you.'
Whereupon Clare left the room without making
any rejoinder.

For the rest of the day she looked pale and
miserable, and scarcely spoke ; while Adrian,
who naturally felt himself aggrieved, did not
choose to pave the way for a reconciliation.
To sulk was not, however, in his nature. Late
that evening, while he was sitting in his study,
trying to work and finding work impossible, he
said to himself that, at any rate, the beginning

of an estrangement should not come from him.
Clare was utterly unreasonable ; but, when all
was said, her unreasonableness arose from love.
To understand is to forgive, and he understood
his wife better than she understood him. He
threw down his pen, stole upstairs to her bedroom,
where he found her disconsolately adding
up accounts, and said he had come to make
friends.

You little goose ! why do sou create
troubles for yourself out of nothing at all ? I
went to leave a card in Grosvenor Square, and
at the door I met Lady St. Austell, who said
she was just starting for the Park and would
give me a lift as far as Kensington Gardens if I
was on my way home. So I said, " All right,"
and off we went. That was the beginning and
end of the whole business. Now, don't you
tliinh you are rather a goose ? '

He fully expected that Clare would make
the desired admission, and that the customary

redintegratio amoris would ensue. He was,
therefore, a good deal taken aback when she
said, ' Adrian, will you do me a great favour ?
I will never ask such a thing of you again —
only this once. Will you, for my sake, give
up Lady St. Austell altogether ? '

Xo,' answered Adrian, quite good-humoured,
but firmly ; ' I will do nothing of
the sort. Lady St. Austell has been kind to me,
and to you too. I shall neither be so rude as
to quarrel with her, nor so foolish as to quarrel
with you on her account. If you could see her
with my eyes, you would be the first to laugh
at yourself for having been afraid of her ; but
I am not going to say another word about the
woman — what is the uses Xow go to bed,
like a good girl, and let me get back to my
work, or I shall be late with my copy again,
and the editor of the "Cosmopolitan Magazine "
will tear me limb from limb.'

This off-hand way of dismissing the matter

was so far successful that Clare smiled and
allowed herself to be embraced. Nevertheless,
after her husband had gone, she resolved that
she would keep her word and never ask a
favour of him again. It is difficult to be
patient with those who meet trouble half-way,
and it is easy to see the absurdity of instinctive
antipathies. Yet a woman's instinct does not
often lead her astray, and we, who are wise
and guided solely by principles of commonsense
in all our dealings, may perhaps afford to
spare a little sympathy for foolish people like
Clare Vidal, remembering that the trials which
they bring upon themselves are not the less
real because of their folly.

Not many days after Clare had been so
deservedly worsted in her effort to set instinct
above reason, a trial came upon her which to
one of her mental tendencies was especially
hard to bear. Had Adrian been at home when
the second post came in, he would probably

have seen from her face that something was the
matter ; his inquiries would have elicited the
truth, and a sufficiently clumsy attempt to sow
discord between husband and wife would have
been defeated. But, as ill-luck would have it,
he had left the house, and it was in solitude
that Clare opened and read the following precious
missive :

Do you know how" your husband amuses
himself when your back is turned ? Ask him
how" many times he has been in Grosvenor
Square this week, and if he answers you truly
he must have changed from what lie used to
be. You are not the first woman whom he has
deceived, and you weill not be the last. One
who knows him well advises you to keep him
at home if you can.'

Clare treated this anonymous letter as it is
to be feared that very many of us treat such
stabs in the dark. First, lie examined it closely,
and found that neither handwriting nor postmark

afforded any clue to the identity of the
writer. Then she indignantly tore it into fragments
and threw it away from her, determining
to think no more about it. And then she sat
down and thought about it. Clare knew, as
everybody knows, that anonymous letters can
only be prompted by malice, and that the fact
of their being anonymous is strong presumptive
evidence that the matter which they contain is
false. So far, so good ; but she could not help
going a little farther and arguing that malice
must have some cause or other for its existence.
You are not the first woman whom he has
deceived.' His own mother had said something
very like this about him, and in that
charge lay the poison of the letter. It had
come, no doubt, from some woman who had
been deceived, or considered herself to have
been deceived, by Adrian in days gone by, and
who was thus taking the first opportunity that
offered to avenge herself upon him. Who was

this woman ? The insinuation that Adrian was
visiting Lady St. Austell more frequently than
he confessed might or might not be founded
upon fact. In any case Clare felt that she was
bound to assume it to be untrue. The least that
she could do (so she rather foolishly thought)
Alas to say nothing to her husband about this
backbiting communication, and to behave as
though it had never reached her. She despised
herself for giving it a second thought ; but
self-contempt does not always lead to change of
conduct ; and so, while she condemned her
suspicions, she brooded over them until she
fretted herself into a fever.

Miss Susan Bowman possessed a fine supply
of hatred and malice, and in the vengeance
which she had sworn to wreak upon Vidal she
was quite ready and willing to include Vidal's
wife ; yet — since, with all her little defects, she
was a woman — it is probable that she would
not have despatched the document quoted

above, had she been able to foresee all the consequences
of that action. Adrian came home
to find his small household in a state of the
greatest confusion and alarm, and the doctor,
who had been summoned hastily, pulled a
rather long face when he came out of Mrs.
Vidal's room.

I think you had better go downstairs for
the present,' he said to Adrian. ' I will join
you as soon as I am able to leave my patient ;
but that may not be for some (hours. Perhaps
you would like to telegraph for Mrs. Line.'

Is it so bad as that ? ' gasped Vidal, turning
white.

The doctor assumed that look of annoyed
surprise which doctors generally do assume
when such questions are addressed to them,
and said, ' I understood that Mrs. Vidal wished
her mother to be with her, that was all. Of
course, this is happening a great deal sooner
than it ought to have done, Which gives us

some additional cause for anxiety ; but 1 did
not intend to imply anything more.'

Thereupon he withdrew hastily ; and Adrian,
having despatched his telegram, betook himself
to his study, where he sat, waiting and trembling,
for an interminable hour. At last he
heard a heavy footfall on the stairs, and presently
the doctor entered, with a grave and
sympathetic mien.

I am sorry,' he began, ' that I am not the
bearer of good news.'

Adrian started up and caught the man by
the elbows. ' Well ? — what?' he asked fiercely.

I regret to say that the child was born
dead. Under the circumstances that was only
what might have been anticipated ; still '

Honor the child ! ' burst out Adrian.
What about my wife ? Will she live ? '

The doctor disengaged himself, looking
slightly shocked. 'Oh, I hope so — I quite
hope so,' he replied. ' [ have no reason to

VOL. II. II

think otherwise. But it is a great pity that
matters should have fallen out like this. Can
you account for it in any way? Has Mrs.
Vidal had any shock? — any mental disturbance? '

None whatever, that I am aware of,'
answered Adrian.

The doctor said no more, but appeared to
be incredulous. Adrian saw that he thought
there had been a quarrel between the young
couple ; but he did not care what the doctor
thought, nor did it occur to him to make any
inquiry as to the presumed shock which had
deprived him of the joys of paternity. All that
he thought of then and for the next three days
was his wife's chance of recovery ; and dien
she was pronounced to be out of danger, he
could hardly contain himself for joy.

Clare, who was too weak to speak much,
lay and watched his happy face with a smile of
contentment upon her own. ' He must love me
to be so glad,' she thought ; and so long as he

loved her, she asked for nothing more. She
could have wished that he had been able to
enter a little more into her feeling of disappointment
about the baby ; but it was hardly to be
expected that a man should understand that.
In reality, Adrian did, to some extent, understand
what her feelings must be, but thought it
better not to touch upon that subject. Personally,
he shared the views of Mrs. Irvine, who
concealed her own disappointment beneath a
mask of cheerful volubility, and who confided to
him that, much as she would have liked to be a
grandmother, she could not but feel that this
first member of the third generation had been
rightly served for entering the world with such
undue precipitancy.

So inconsiderate of him ! ' she said. ' I
dare say, if he had lived, he would have brought
an immensity of trouble upon us all with his
impetuous ways of going on. Even as it is, he
has given me a dreadful fright, besides upsetting

H 2

all my arrangements. I had promised myself
a month in London towards the end of the
season, and I thought that by the time Clare
was strong again you would be ready for your
summer holiday, and I could take you both
back to Cardrew with me ; but now I must
return as soon as possible on account of a hundred
things that have to be attended to at
home ; and as for nursing poor Clare and doing
all that I want to do in London, it isn't to bethought
of. So I have written to Mr. Irvine
to come up. No, I won't have him in this
house ; he would only be in your way. He
will stay in a little hotel in Albemarle Street,
where they know him and will look after him ;
and then he must go about and do my commissions
for me. A nice mess he will make of
them, I am afraid, but we must hope for the
best.'

In obedience to this summons, Mr. Levite
duly arrived in Albemarle Street, whence it was

agreed that he was to journey out to Alexandra
Gardens every morning to be informed of his
daughter's progress towards recovery, and to
receive his wife's orders for the day. As, however,
he persisted in walking the whole distance,
and as on three consecutive occasions he lost his
way, and only appeared in tow of a friendly
policeman at three o'clock in the afternoon, by
which time he was far too exhausted to be sent
anywhere, it was considered that time would be
saved by sending him his daily instructions
through the post for the future. In spite of
the element of risk involved in such an arrangement
(for the old gentleman never remembered
to post a letter himself ; and when two or three
days elapsed without news of him it was impossible
not to fear that he might have been
decoyed into a back slum and murdered), Lies.
Irvine adhered to it loyally, and only left her
daughter's bedside when Clare insisted upon her
giving herself a little fresh air.

Adrian, too, remained at home during the
greater part of the twenty-four hours, neither
dining out nor paying visits, and making the
office of the 'Anglo-saxon' the sole object of his
afternoon walk. However, when Clare was ina
fair way towards convalescence, he bethought
him that it would be only civil to call upon
Lady St. Austell, who had sent repeatedly to
inquire during Mrs. Vidal's illness, and from
whom he had received various sympathetic
little notes, to which he had replied, without
thinking it necessary to mention them to the
invalid. Turning into Grosvenor Square, one
afternoon, to discharge this act of duty, he was
surprised to see his father-in-law standing on
the steps of the house for which he himself was
bound. Mr. Irvine was apparently lost in
thought, but recognised the new-comer with a
gesture of delight.

Dear me ! is that you, Adrian ? Now
perhaps you ^vill be able to help me out. I

have, unfortunately, quite forgotten, for the
moment '

Where you are and what, you came here
for,' suggested Adrian, laughing. ' Well, I
think I can tell you. You came here to call on
Lady St. Austell, and you are now at her door.'

Yes, yes ; I know that — I am quite aware
of that ; and I can also recall the specific
errand upon which I was sent by Mrs. Irvine.
She has lately supplied Lady St. Austell \vith a
maid — a most respectable person, who has seen
better days, but is now in reduced circumstances
and I was to inquire how she was getting on.
But my difficulty is this. If Lady St. Austell
was not at home, I was to be sure to ask for the
young woman herself, and unluckily her name
has altogether escaped me. It couldn't be
Arrowroot, could it ? '

I shouldn't think so,' said Adrian.

No ; and yet that can't be far from it,
because all the way down Bond Street I was

trying to fix it in my mind by repeating to
myself " A was an Archer, who shot at a frog. '
Now, the name was not Archer.'

I don't see how that would help you
towards Arrowroot, except that both words
begin with an A,' remarked Adrian. ' Would
the frog be of any assistance, do you think ? '

Mr. Irvine shook his head despondently. ' I
doubt it. I can call to mind no English surname
that is connected in any way with the
idea of a frog, unless it be Tadpole, and 1 should
be sorry to assert positively that such a name
as Tadpole exists. Added to which. Tadpole is
certainly not the name of the young person.'

That being so, suppose we ring and ask
for the new maid.'

To be sure ! ' cried Mr. Irvine gleefully.
We will do so without loss of time. What a
fortunate thing that you should have arrived at
this moment ! You are always so fertile in expedients.'


Adrian accordingly rang the bell, and
during the interval that elapsed before the door
was opened he had leisure to reflect that, from
his point of view, it was perhaps not such a very
fortunate thing that he had encountered his
father-in-law at that particular time and place.
He had not said, before leaving home, that he
intended calling upon Lady St. Austell, and
would have been just as well pleased that the
circumstance should not be reported. His
musings were interrupted by a sudden exclamation
from ]VLr. Ire.

Bowman ! ' called out the old gentleman
triumphantly. ' Susan Bowman, of course ! I
knees' it had something to do with archery.
Now do you see the beauty of this system of
memoria technical ? It not only enables you to
recall the particular word that you wish to
retain, but it exercises the deductive and inductive
faculties '

But the remainder of Mr. Levite's speech

died away upon his lips when he discovered that
his hearer had vanished, as if by enchantment.

Adrian was, indeed, at this moment posting
along Upper Brook Street, uttering muffled
execrations at every step. Susan Bowman in
Lady St. Austell's service ! Here was a pretty
piece of business ! ' No more visits to Grosvenor
Square for me ! ' thought he to himself. ' That
dear old mother-in-law of mine is the best of
women, but she is not happy in her choice of
objects for benevolence. I suppose the next
thing will be that she will hear the whole of
Susan's sad story, with additions and embellishments.
Heaven grant that the woman may not
have found out Clare's maiden name ! It is
this sort of disastrous things that makes one
doubt whether Providence can really take any
active part in the government of human affairs.'

The wicked flee when no man pursued.
Perhaps so ; but there have been circumstances
under which the righteous have been known to

adopt the same inglorious system of strategy.
It cannot be said that Adrian had behaved
wickedly towards Susan Bowman ; yet so terrified
was he at the prospect of a second encounter
with her that he was half way across Hyde
Park before he realised that he had done a
rather stupid thing in decamping without assigning
any cause for his retreat. It would have
been so simple to have been taken ill, or to
have remembered an appointment ! However,
there was no use in thinking about that now,
and he could but trust that ]mr. Irvine's treacherous
memory might fail to retain the circumstances
of their meeting and parting. What
was more important Alas that a woman who
ardently desired to do him an ill turn was residing
in the house which, of all houses inLcmdon,
seemed the most likely to furnish her with
means to effect her purpose ; and as he thought
of the complications that might arise out of this
most unlucky accident, Adrian almost made up

his mind that he would not only steer clear of
Lady St. Austell for the future, but would
frankly tell his wife the whole history of that
boyish adventure which had so nearly prevented
her from ever becoming his wife at all.

That he did not, in the sequel, carry out
this sensible determination was due to a succession
of those second thoughts which are not
always the best. He had a good many reasons
for holding his tongue. No man likes to confess
(except in general terms) that he has been
an egregious ass ; very few men care to run
the risk of a scene which may be avoided ;
and if it only cost an occasional ten-pound note
to keep Susan quiet, occasional ten-pound notes
might very well be forthcoming in these palmy
days of literary success. Moreover, when he
had regained full possession of his senses, Adrian
reflected that the chance of a visitor to a large
establishment being seen by the lady's-maid was
not to be reckoned, upon the average, at a

much higher rate than one in fifty ; and that, ashe
had escaped recognition hitherto, it was
most probable that he would continue to do so.
To all this it may be added that he did not
want to break with Lady St. Austell.

Had he been a little better acquainted with
the habits both of Lady St. Austell and Susan,
he might have spared himself the trouble of
debating whether or not it behoved him to be
cautious about calling in Grosvenor Square.
The former of these women was at all times
possessed by so irresistible a craving to talk
about herself that it would have been impossible
for any one to brush her hair every evening
without hearing all that she knew as to the
person who had the privilege of exciting her
interest for the time being : the latter had an
insatiable thirst for information, having" long
since discovered ways in which miscellaneous
information may be turned to account. Susan,
therefore, was perfectly aware not only that

Adrian was the son-in-law of the lady who had
provided her with her situation, but also that
Mrs. Yidal was rather prone to be jealous of
her husband, and that Lady St. Austell was
by no means disinclined to give her good cause
for being so.

This was most satisfactory, and Susan began
to see her way to paying off old scores in that
time-honoured fashion which ought always to
fail, yet so seldom does fail. That Mrs. Yidal
might very possibly show the anonymous letter
which she had received to her husband was a
contingency in no wise to be dreaded. The
writer did not care in the least whether she
was identified by Adrian or not; for, since
her interview with him, she had felt assured
that he lacked the requisite courage to speak
the truth about his past. He would, therefore
(so she calculated), meet this charge
with a blank denial — which denial would
be only half believed in. He would not cease

to visit Lady St. Austell ; but henceforth he
would do so more or less ou the sly, and sooner
or later he was quite sure, if not to compromise
himself, at least to place himself in a compromising
situation. Thus there was good ground for
hope that ere long he might be made acquainted
with the sweet uses of adversity. In the meantime
it was not desirable that he should be put
upon his guard by knowledge of his enemy's
whereabouts, and that knowledge Susan accordingly
determined to withhold from him. Should
he by any chance acquire it, she would still
have the whip-hand of him ; for she had preserved
certain affectionate letters of his, written
in bygone days, and she was not without hope
that, as time went on, she might do still better,
and possess herself of similar missives addressed
to Lady St. Austell. It will be perceived that
Miss Bowman was neither over-strict as to her
own moral code nor disposed to form too lofty
a notion of that of her neighbours.

She is,' said Mrs. Irvine, speaking of her
to Adrian at this time, ' one of the most interesting
and unfortunate creatures I have ever
met. I would have tried to place her as a
governess ; but she said she really would prefer
being a maid, and one can't wonder that she
should, poor thing ! Nowadays sn much is expected
of governesses, that she coidd not hope
to be entrusted with the care of any but quite
small children ; and, as she very truly said, it is
better to be a lady's-maid than a nurse. I don't
think there are any people in the world whom
I pity so much as those who are thrown upon
their own resources after havens been brought
up as ladies and yet insufficiently educated.'

I suppose you satisfied yourself that she
had been brought up as a lady,' said Adrian,
to whom all this was very unpleasant hearing.

Well, she said so,' answered Mrs. Irvine,
as if that were quite conclusive ; and added,
after a moment, ' Sometimes I feel almost

inclined to give up belonging to charitable
organisations altogether: they seem to make
people so hard and suspicious. This poor
woman came to the office of our Society for
the Aid of Decayed Gentlewomen, and they
would have nothing to say to her because she
couldn't produce any relations to answer for
lier. Now, how is one to produce people who
are dead and buried ? One can't dig them up
out of their graves ; and she did offer to show
us their tombstones, which Lady Cleverly
said was so impertinent of her, though I really
could not see myself why it was impertinent.
She told me her whole story, which was really
a very sad and touching one. The lady with
whom she lived first, after her parents died,
turned her out of doors and refused to help her
to another place because she had been unfortunate
enough to attract the attention of this
lady's son — a dissolute and unprincipled young
man. Then, I think, she said she had been a

VOL. II. I

dressmaker, and — well, I don't remember all
her adventures ; but lie managed at last to
get a situation as nursery governess, and only
left it because she could not endure the vulgarity
of the people.'

Adrian groaned. ' And upon the strength
of that unsupported testimony you recommended
her to Lady St. Austell ? '

It wasn't unsupported. I had a character
of her from the people with whom she had
been last. Not a very good character, I must
admit ; but it was easy to see that the woman
who wrote it was prejudiced against her. ^t
any rate. Lady St. Austell is quite satisfied.'

Adrian did not care to pursue the subject.
It was a relief to him to find that he had not
yet been betrayed, and it was also something of
a relief to him when Mrs. Irvine left for Cornwall.
' If there is to be a disturbance,' thought
he, ' the fewer there are of us to take part in it
the better.'

But before very long all dread of a disturbance
left him. Susan made no sign, and
Clare, though a little depressed — as was but
natural, after all that she had gone through —
was almost herself again, and seemed to have
forgotten the unreasoning repugnance that she
had felt for Lady St. Austell. In reality, Clare
had forgotten nothing ; but Adrian's care of
her during her illness had made her so heartily
ashamed of having doubted him that she was
eager to show her penitence by urging him to
go out into the world again — which thing, to
tell the truth, he was ready to do without any
great pressure. She herself did not yet feel
equal to the fatigue of being entertained again ,
so she remained at home, counting the days
till August, in the beginning of which month
Adrian was to take her down to Cardrew, and
sometimes wishing that she had a friend with
her to keep her company and aid the flight of
timer

2

CHAPTER XIX.

Georgia.

Clare's modest aspiration for a little company
was gratified in an unexpected manner
by the sudden appearance upon the scene of
Adrian's sister. It was Miss Yidal's habit to
arrive from remote quarters of the globe during
the progress of the London season ; for she
combined a taste for savage life with a genuine
appreciation of humanity in its higher phases
of development ; and, indeed, at the bottom of
her heart she agreed with Lady St. Austell that
there was no place in the world like the capital
of her native land. She was shown into Clare's
drawing-room one afternoon when Adrian was
out, and introduced herself, remarking as

tranquilly as if lie had just come up from the
country, instead of from the South Seas, ' I
shall only be in town for a few weeks, so I
thought I wouldn't lose time in calling upon you.'

Clare looked at this tall, fair-haired, and
rather handsome woman, who had a pair of
frank, good-humoured eyes, and took a fancy
to her at once. In face she was not unlike her
brother, whose senior she was by a year or
two ; but her manner was her own, and, in
spite of a certain abruptness, it was not an
unpleasant manner.

I have heard all about you from my
mother,' she said ; ' so I feel that you are not
quite a stranger. My mother's report was very
complimentary, which is more than can be said
for most of her reports. By the-by, did she
tell you anything about me ? I hope not.'

Clare took a second look at Miss Yidal, who
was seated opposite to her, with her hands upon
her knees and her elbows squared out. The

attitude was perhaps a slightly masculine one,
and the speaker had the appearance of being
accustomed to use her limbs more freely than
women generally do ; but there was nothing
unconventional about her attire Her dress
was well cut, and fitted her neat figure perfectly ;
her boots and gloves were all that they ought
to have been, and she had a parasol with a long
handle, just like everybody else. Remembering
quite well the picture drawn by Mrs. Vidal of
her daughter, Clare smiled and only replied,
She told me you were in the South Sea
Islands.'

Nothing more than that ? Are you sure
she didn't tell you that I had become a convert
to cannibalism ? The year before last, when I
came back from Africa, I was asked by half a
dozen people whether it was true that I had
shot a native chief and taken command of his
tribe ; and when I inquired where they got
their information from, they all with one consent



replied, " From your mother." I call that
rather hard. However, as she often tells me,
one can't conceal one's self in the wilds for
months together and then expect that no
strange assertions will be made about one's proceedings.
She herself can't make out why I
go to such places, or what I do when 1 am
there ; but she has a general impression that I
am up to no good. This time I am going to
stop the mouth of calumny by publishing a
book full of interesting information, which I am
afraid you will have to read.'

Clare said, politely, that she was sure she
would enjoy reading it.

I don't feel quite so confident about that :
other people's travels always strike me as so
extraordinarily wearisome. But there are tiresome
duties connected with every position, and
domestic criticism appears to be one of yours.
It is rather bad luck for you to have to encourage
an illiterate sister-in-law as well as a

literary husband. Does Adrian make you read
all his novels in manuscript ? '

He doesn't make me ; he allows me to
read them,' answered Clare.

Miss Vidal laughed. ' I apologise. It's a
privilege, of course. I don't know what you
will think of me when I confess that I haven't
seen either of his books yet. My only excuse
is that it takes some time for recent works to
reach Otaheite.'

Do you really like going to such far-away
countries all by yourself? ' asked Clare.

Yes, I think I do. Upon the whole, I like
it much better than I expected that I should, f
don't know that I have any very great natural
love of adventure ; but when it is a choice
between Brighton and barbarism, one can't
hesitate. One gets a little tired of wandering
about the earth's surface ; but, things being as
they are, I suppose I shall continue to do so
till the end of the chapter.'

I hope not,' said Clare, to whom this
seemed a dismal prospect. ' You may have a
home of your own some day.'

I may marry, you mean ? Well, I may ;
but it isn't very likely. Whenever I have contemplated
anything of the kind I have found
myself confronted by a dilemma from which
there is no escape. I shouldn't like a husband
who made me obey him, and I should rather
despise a husband who obeyed me. Therefore
I remain unfettered.'

And where are you staying now ? '

Oh, in lodgings. It isn't quite the thing,
I know. One is allowed to dispense with a
chaperon in the Southern Hemisphere, but not
in London. Still, I must see my friends
occasionally ; and, as my mother declares
that she can't afford three weeks in town,
I have to defy public opinion and come up
alone.'

But why did you not come to us .^ ' aske J

Clare. ' Was it because we live in such an
out-of-the-way quarter ? '

Miss Yidal looked half pleased and half
amused. ' You are very kind,' she said, ' and
I don't call South Kensington at all out of the
way. But, barbarian though I am, I don't
make a practice of inviting myself to stay vsdth
people who have never asked me.'

Not even with your brother .^ ' exclaimed
Clare. ' Why, if one of the boys came up to
London 1 should expect him here as a matter
of course ; and if I were unmarried and had a
married brother I should think I was paying
him a very poor compliment by taking lodgings
when he had a spare room to give me. You
don't know what a kindness you would do me
if you would make this house your headquarters
as long as it suits you. Adrian is
obliged to be a great deal away, and lately I
have often wished for somebody to talk to
while he is out. Of course, though, if you do

consent to move here, I shall not expect you to
sit with me all day long. You will come and
go exactly as you please, and nobody will ask
you to do anything that you don't feel inclined
to do. Please think it over.'

Miss Vidal, as in duty bound, resisted for a
time ; but her resistance was not very strenuous ;
and while she was allowing her scruples to be
removed, one by one, Adrian came in and
settled the matter by adding his entreaties to
Clare's. He was fond of his sister, and, being
for his own part honestly glad to see her again,
he rejoiced to find that his wife was amiably
disposed towards her.

You may as well yield gracefully, George,'
he said. '• You can't pretend that you prefer
poky lodgings to this palatial residence, or your
own society to ours. We have just been entertaining
Clare's mother, and it's only fair that
my side of the family should have a turn
now.'

So Miss Vidal became a temporary inmate
of the little house in Alexandra Gardens, and
did a good deal towards rendering it more
cheerful for one of its occupants. It is not
always that sisters-in-law hit it off together ;
but these two speedily became friends — perhaps
because each found in the other the qualities
which were wanting in herself. The elder of
them was one of those happy persons who,
being blessed with a perfectly healthy organisation,
do not know what it is to be weary or
bored, and who consequently very seldom bore
their neighbours. There was a brisk good
humour about her and a determination to make
the best of everything which were as good as a
tonic to her younger companion, who had
gradually fallen into a condition of languor for
which her late illness was hardly sufficient to
account. Miss Yidal had little personal knowledge
of sentimental troubles ; but she had
sharp eyes, and it is probable that she formed a

pretty shrewd guess at the nature of a complaint
which did not admit of verbal consolation.

There is not much to be said to those who
persist in mourning for the dead, and there is
still less to be said to the foolish people who
won't understand that courtship and marriage
are two distinct things. A little oblivion is the
remedy which most commonly suggests itself to
bystanders ; and it may be that Clare, who did
not know what was the matter with her, and
had no suspicion that she was being put through
a course of treatment, may have been unconsciously
benefited in this way by being dragged
about to concert-rooms, exhibitions, and other
places of amusement. ' You must remember
that I am a country cousin,' the indefatigable
Georgina would say ; ' and I want to be shown
the sights.'

She had, apparently, a large number of
friends, who met her, either by accident or
appointment, at picture-galleries and elsewhere.

and who walked about with her while her
sister-in law rested. In one of these Clare was
especially interested — not so much on account
of his physical or mental attributes, neither of
which were of a striking order, as by reason of
the obvious and profound admiration which he
entertained for Bliss Vidal. Georgina introduced
him to her casually, one day, as ' My
friend Mr. De Wynt. Mr. De V/yut is a clerk
in the Treasury, and has no peculiarities of any
sort or kind.'

This description of himself did not seem to
be resented by the subject of it, who was a
dapper little man of something over thirty, with
fair hair, very smoothly brushed, and a carefully
trimmed beard.

Some of us can't afford to be peculiar,' he
remarked placidly. 'Miss Vidal, of course,
can ; but if I were to set up for being original,
I should lose all my friends at once. I mean
to say, they simply wouldn't stand it, you know.
Ask anv one of my acquaintances whether he

knows me, and I can tell you exactly what his
answer will be. He A^ill smile and say, " De
Wynt? Oh yes; I know him. He isn't a
bad little chap." But supposing that I attempted
to strike out a line of my own, what
would be the result ? Why, that I should be
known as " that thundering little idiot De
Wynt." And I would rather not be spoken of
in that way.'

He plays the piano,' observed Georgina,
as if thinking it only fair that her friend should
be credited with any little claim to distinction
that he might possess.

Well, yes ; I play the piano ; but I trust
that there is nothing very peculiar in that. My
playing is bad, certainly, still not so bad as to
be phenomenal.'

His playing is really rather good,' Miss Vidal
said. ' You can come and see us some afternoon,
Mr. De Wynt, if you like, and bring your music
with you under your arm. Do you mind
carrying a roll of music through the streets ? '

I don't like it,' answered De Wynt ; ' it
makes one look so like a singing-master, don't
you know. But I'll come in a hansom, if
Mrs. Vidal will allow me to call upon her.'

He redeemed his promise within a few
days, and was received with much cordiality by
Clare, who had made up her mind that this
sensible little gentleman would make the best
husband in the world for her sister-in-law.
His behaviour on this and on subsequent occasions
left no room for doubt as to the fact of his
attachment to Miss Yidal, whom he adored
silently and placidly, and who treated him with
a good-humoured imperiousness to which he
did not appear to object. He was very glad
to do her errands, to look after her when she
wanted an escort, and to make himself generally
useful ; and if he did not demean himself
in all respects like a lover, it was Clare's opinion
that he was only restrained from doing so by
fear of the lady whom he loved.

She said as much, one day, to Georgina,
who either was, or affected to be, greatly
amused by this assertion, and exclaimed. ' Poor
Mr. De Wynt ! he little suspects that he has
been decoyed into the house of a matchmaker.
I hope you won't be so unkind as to
deprive me of his services by saying anything
of this sort to him. If you do, he will take to
his heels at once ; for he has considerable
expectations, I believe, and is altogether rather
an eligible little person in his way. It wouldn't
suit him at all to be mated with a strong-minded
female of eccentric habits.'

You know perfectly well that he is devoted
to you,' returned Clare, ' and I believe you like
him too. Some day, when you are tired of
roaming about the world, you will be sorry for
having snubbed a man who asks for nothing
better than to make you happy.'

But Miss Vidal shook her head. 'I told
you before,' said she, ' that I shouldn't like

VOL. II. K

either to be a slave or a slave-owner. I never
snub Mr. De Wynt, whom I think a most
amiable and estimable being ; but I have
received no offer from him, and if I had I
shouldn't have accepted it — as people say when
they haven't been asked to a party. And,
talking of that, have you made up your mind
to accept Lady St. Austell's invitation ? '

This change of subject had the effect., which
it was probably designed to have, of diverting
Clare's thoughts into another channel. The
invitation alluded to had reached her that
morning, and had brought about a discussion
across the breakfast-table between her and her
husband, which, though brief, had not been
altogether pleasant.

Lord St. Austell possessed, on the banks
of the Thames, near Eichmond, a small house
with large grounds attached to it, where his
wife was in the habit of holding an annual
garden party. It was by no means everybody

who received a card for these functions, at
which Loyalty was always largely represented,
and upon which the giver spared neither
trouble nor money. Lady St. Austell was
exclusive once a year upon much the same
principle as causes proprietors of private roads
to close their gates for a few hours at stated
intervals. She thought it incumbent upon her
to make an occasional public assertion of the
position in society that she was entitled to
claim ; after having done which she would
return to the easy-going habits that were more
congenial to her nature. Now, Adrian had
not felt at all sure that he would be included
among the distinguished guests bidden to Richmond,
and in proportion to his pleasure at
being thus honoured was his annoyance when
his wife expressed a decided wish to send a
refusal. Understanding, as of course he did,
what was Clare's reason for disliking to partake

K 2

of any hospitality in tlmt quarter, he could not
repress a gesture of impatience as he said :

There is no need to send any answer at
all. Perhaps, when the time comes, you may
want to go. I shall be sorry if you don't,
because Lady St. Austell has gone out of her
way to be civil to us more than once, and if
she notices our absence she will most likely
think that it isn't worth her while to trouble
herself about us any more.'

Such an eventuality would not have grieved
Clare ; but she felt that she had no right to
bring it about. She had been too proud to
question Adrian as to his visits to Grosvenor
Square, but she had not been too proud to
put together certain scraps of circumstantial
evidence which convinced her that they had
been resumed ; nor, unfortunately, had she
sufficient self-command to abstain from such
futile indications as this of her distrust of the
woman whom she regarded as his would-be

beguile. After having needlessly vexed him
by entering her protest, she began to feel
qualms of conscience and prepared to yield.
Some pressure was brought to bear upon herby
Miss Yidal, who knew of no just cause
or impediment why advantage should not betaken
of Lady St. Austell's politeness ; and
this provided her with a sort of excuse for
surrender.

I have decided to go to that garden party,
after all ; Georgina would like to see it,' she
said afterwards to Adrian, who accepted the
explanation without comment, his one wish
being to avoid all mention of a subject which
seemed likely to lead to unpleasantness.

If Clare's self sacrifice won her no thanks
from her husband, it met with grateful recognition
from De Wynt, who had hardly anticipated
that the ladies in whose company he had
latterly spent all his spare time would be
present at the Eichmond gathering, nor indeed

(if the truth must be told) that they would be
asked to be present He knew that Clare was
not fond of society, and he also knew that
Lady St. Austell made it a rule to ask no one
who was not in society to this especial entertainment.
He himself had received an invitation
as a matter of course, because he always
did receive invitations to everything that was
going, and there were very few notices of
parties recorded in the papers that chronicle
such events in which the list of guests did not
terminate with ' Mr. De Wynt, &c.' To what
he owed so much honour it would be difficult
to say exactly. Possibly, as he was himself
wont to aver, to his unobtrusiveness.

It's awfully good of you to go to this
thing, Mrs. Yidal,' he said. ' You won't enjoy
yourself, but you will give enjoyment to other
people, and that is your notion of happiness,
I know.'

In truth, Mr. De Wynt had formed an

exalted idea of Clare's character, which he did
not disguise.

Georgina will enjoy it, I hope,' she answered,
with a smile.

I was thinking of myself, I confess ; but
perhaps she may enjoy it too. I am not sure
whether she cares much about meeting Royalties
and Duchesses.'

I • fancy that perhaps she is a little above
caring to meet people who have nothing beyond
a title to recommend them,' observed Clare,
who wanted to represent her sister-in-law in as
flattering colours as possible.

Well, you know, T think that's rather a
pity,' said the little man. ' It's all very well
to be unconventional ; but it seems to me that
if one doesn't allow that rank carries a certain
distinction with it, one might as well be a
Republican at once ; and we're not Republicans
in England yet. don't you know. Of course,
there are plenty of yeomen and an;- number

of country gentlemen who could show longer
pedigrees than some of the people who lead
society nowadays — and then there's the aristocracy
of talent, and all that. But it's a mistake
to turn up one's nose at these people, who
think themselves our superiors, and to pretend
that one doesn't want to be asked to their
houses. At least, I think it is ; but then I
suppose I am rather a snob in some ways,' he
added reflectively.

Clare had no difficulty in reading between
the lines of this harangue. ]\ii\ De Wynt was
above all things a prudent man ; and, in spite
of his admiration for Miss Yidal, he was
probably quite alive to the disadvantages of
having an eccentric wife. It was not, however,
very likely that Georgina's eccentricity would
take the democratic form which he deprecated ;
nor, so far as Clare could judge, was he likely
to be deterred from offering her his hand and
heart by anything except a sense of his own

unworthiness. She had scarcely any doubt but
that this couple would come to an understanding
sooner or later, little though they seemed disposed
to hmTy themselves over it. It amused
her to watch them together ; and she had
ample leisure for watching them and others at
Lady St. Austell's garden party, for nobody
took much notice of her there.

Her husband found her a seat on the sloping
lawn, whence, as he said, she could 'survey
the show ' ; and she sat and surveyed the show
accordingly, being very well satisfied to take
that passive part in the proceedings. The
scene was certainly the most effective that she
had witnessed in her brief experience of London
society. Under the shade of cedars and copper
beeches, and among flower-beds blazing with
scarlet and blue and a hundred other tints,
were congregated some of the prettiest and
best-dressed women in England. The river, like
a broad band of silver, made a background for

all this colour, and the sunny, hazy atmosphere
softened down what was too crude in it. Lady
St. Austell was standing at the entrance of a
marquee, surrounded by exalted personages,
while in the shadow behind her hovered her
lord, an indistinct figure, all teeth and eye-glass.
Georgina and De Wynt were pacing up and
down one of the paths, the latter taking off his
hat at every other step and evidently rejoicing
in the recognitions accorded to him. Adrian,
who was flitting about from group to group,
appeared to be in the full enjoyment of the
same innocent pleasure.

Upon all this Clare looked down with an
odd sensation of being out of it, of being set
aside, of having neither part nor lot in the
existence which her husband found so charming.
Every now and then, someone whose face she
vaguely remembered to have seen in the faraway
time before her illness bowled and passed
on ; one or two people stopped to shake hands

with her : but, as she could think of nothing
to say to them, they did not linger long beside
her. No doubt it was her own fault if she was
isolated ; but that did not prevent her isolation
from becoming a little depressing in the long
run, and the unexpected appearance of an old
friend among all those strangers brought a
flush of pleasure into her cheeks, and caused
her to start up impulsively from her chair to
meet him.

You back in England, Mr. Heriot ! ' she
exclaimed ; ' and you have never been to see
us ! '

I only returned the day before yesterday,'
answered Heriot, into whose sallow face a
slight accession of colour had also found its
way, ' and I should have called upon you
to-day if Lady St. Austell hadn't told me that
I should meet you here.'

You went to see Lady St. Austell first,
then .^ ' cried Clare petulantly. ' What is

there in Lady St. Austell that fascinates you
all so much ? Are you, too, among her
adorers ? '

The moment that she had uttered this somewhat
injudicious speech she would have been
glad to recall it ; but Heriot was discreet
enough to let it pass. He began to talk about
other things — about his own travels during the
winter, about Adrian's successes, and about
Cornwall, which last theme was always a welcome
one to Clare. Her eyes brightened as
she said : ' We are going home — to Cardrew,
I mean — early in August, and if you want to
be charitable, you will come and stay a longtime,
and keep Adrian from being bored. This
year we shall have plenty of room, because
Bob is away on the East Indian station, poor
fellow, and Jack is going to Norway to fish.
We shall miss them both a good deal ; still we
shall be a tolerably large party without them,

and it will be like old times again, I hope.
You will be sure to come, won't you ? '

Well, perhaps I will, if I'm asked,'
answered Heriot. ' And how do you like the
gay world now ? When I saw you last, you
told me that you were dying to make acquaintance
with it. Do you remember ? '

Yes ; — it seems a long time ago,' sighed
Clare. ' So much has happened since then.'

Heriot made a sort of sympathetic murmur.
He took it for granted that she was alluding to
the loss of her baby, and was not sure whether
outspoken condolence with regard to such a
subject would be considered in very good taste.
But in truth it was not of that only that Clare
was thinking.

Do you know,' she went on, ' I don't like
the gay world at all. I am not fitted for it,
and — and it isn't exactly what I thought it
would be. Lately I have not been able to go

out much myself; but Adrian does. Sometimes
I almost wish '

She did not finish her sentence ; but the
blank was easy enough to fill up. Heriot quite
understood it all. What he had foreseen had
evidently come to pass, and he was sorry for it ;
yet he did not think it advisable to encourage
vain repining. ' I am glad you can persuade
Adrian to go about without you,' he said cheerfully.
' Married men are far too apt to get
into a lazy way of falling asleep after dinner,
and refusing to stir from their arm-chairs, when
they ought to be gathering fresh ideas by
mixing with their fellow-creatures. I grant
you that historians and philosophers may shut
themselves up without injuring the quality of
their work very much ; but a novelist can't see
too many people.'

'I dare say you are right,' replied Clare
rather coldly. Mr. Heriot might have spared
her that hint that she had no business to monopolise

her husband, she thought. She had not
meant to complain, and felt that she had been
unreservedly snubbed. After this she fell back
into silence and apathy, thereby causing her
old friend to anathematise himself inwardly for
having been such an ass as to interfere with
what did not concern him.

Now that you have successfully put your
foot into it,' thought lie to himself, ' the sooner
you go away the better.' And before very
long an opportunity for withdrawing was
afforded him by the approach of Lord St. Russell,
who passed him with a nod and took a
chair on Mrs. Vidal's left hand.

Lord St. Austell, set free by the departure
of his Eoyal guests, had for the last quarter of
an hour been prowling about the grounds, like
a superannuated knight-errant in search of
adventures, and had been pleased by the discovery
of an extremely pretty face, which he
indistinctly remembered to have seen somewhere

before. Pretty faces were to him what
the magnet is to iron, and having found, upon
inquiry, that this one belonged to ' Mrs. Vidal
wife of the man who writes the books, you
know,' he advanced towards Clare with a grin
of satisfaction not unlike that with which an
aged wolf may be supposed to contemplate a
lamb. De Wynt, who noticed his proceedings,
said to Georgina, 'Look at old St. Austell
making up to your sister-in-law. He must
have thought of something very disagreeable to
tell her, or he wouldn't be looking so pleased.'

But Lord St. Austell, as he seated himself,
said nothing more disagreeable than ' Mrs.
Vidal, I want to know who your dressmaker
is.'

I don't think you would be much the
wiser if I were to tell you,' answered Clare
laughing. 'She is not a fashionable dressmaker.'


She has managed to turn you out better

than anyone else here, at all events,' returned
Lord St. Austell ; not because he thought so,
but because experience had led him to believe
that no woman living doubts the sincerity of
this particular form of flattery. ' To be sure,'
he added, ' she had an admirable subject to
exercise her skill upon, and that counts for
something. If I were a dressmaker, I should
charge all the ugly women double prices.'

'I am afraid they wouldn't employ you
long upon those terms,' remarked Clare.

I shouldn't want them. I hate ugly
women. I should devote myself to — well, to
the ones who are like you ; and I should never
send in my bill unless I was sure that their
husbands would discharge all claims without
making a fuss. I hope you make yours pay up
handsomely, by the way.'

'I don't think I care much about dress,'
answered Clare, who felt that the old gentleman
was becoming a little impertinent, but did not

VOL. II. L

quite know how to set him down, ' and my
husband has not a superabundance of spare
money. Why are you so anxious that lie
should spend it upon my clothes ? '

I should say that was the least he could
do,' returned Lord St. Austell, screwing his
glass into his eye and leering up into his neighbour's
face. ' When husbands treat themselves
to little diversions they nest expect to pay for
them in some shape or form ; and yom^s ought
to pay twice as much as another man, because
he has such shocking bad taste. I yield to no
man in my admiration for Lady St. Austell ;
but, at the same time — oh, no ! I really can't
compliment Mr. Vidal on his taste. If I had
the good fortune to stand in his shoes, I think
I should be very well contented to do my
worshipping at home.'

1 don't know what you mean,' said Clare
in a somewhat tremulous voice.

By way of reply. Lord St. Austell pointed

wntli his stick to the marquee, where her ladyship
could be seen, reclining in an arm-chair
and talking with much apparent animation
to someone whose body was concealed by the
side of the tent, but whose legs and feet
were visible. ' Your husband's legs,' Lord St.
Austell observed explanatorily. ' My dear Mrs.
Vidal, we are both of us very badly used. Suppose
we try to console each other ? '

It was then that Clare distinguished herself
in an unusual manner. ' Thank you,' said she,
getting up ; ' but I should like you to believe
that my taste is not quite so bad as my
husband's.'

She turned away without deigning to watch
the effect of this tremendous retort, and, joining
Georgina, suggested that it was time to go
away. ' Perhaps you will kindly look for
Adrian, Mr. De Wynt,' she said, not caring to
show that she knew where her husband was.

It was with a heavy heart that Clare seated

L 2

herself in the carriage which was to take her
back to London. Things were going badly
with her, she thought, and there was little
ground for hope that they would ever go
better. That Adrian no longer loved her in
the old way was plain enough ; otherwise he
would hardly have made himself so conspicuous
with Lady St. Austell as to attract the
notice even of Lady St. Austell's husband.
Very likely he saw no great harm in flirtation ;
Clare's small experience of the ways of modern
society led her to believe that he was only
acting as most other people acted. ' Yet,' she
thought, with some bitterness, ' he might have
spared me to-day. He knew that I only went
to Eichmond to please him ; he knew that the
whole thing was hateful to me ; and, at least,
he need not have devoted himself to that odious
woman before my very eyes.'

Of one thing, however, she was quite
determined : she would not interfere with him

again. She had made her protest, and had
made it vainly ; it would be useless as well as
undignified to repeat it. Nor would she vex
him any more by seeming annoyed at his
behaviour. Neither by word nor look would
she betray the pain that he was inflicting upon
her. What would be the good ?

She chewed the cud of these reflections and
formed the above heroic resolution, sitting,
grave and silent, in the carriage, while Adrian
and Georgina chatted about the party which
they had just left ; and so successful was she in
carrying out her intention that both her companions
saw clearly that she was displeased,
while one of them understood perfectly well
the cause of her displeasure.

Adrian sighed impatiently once or twice. He
was ready to make allowances for Clare (for what
is the use of adopting the study of character asa
profession if one does not learn from it to be
lenient to the failings of others), but it seemed

to him that if he yielded to every fancy of
hers, his life would very soon cease to be worth
having. What could be more absurd than that
she should be angry with him because he had
talked for a quarter of an hour to his hostess
at a garden party? While they had been
taking leave of Lady St. Austell, he had
noticed Clare's freezing demeanour and Lord
St. Austell's sardonic grin, and had felt that he
was being made ridiculous. He fully expected
to be called to account for his conduct as soon
as he reached home, and to be called to
account for sins which one has not committed
is only less disagreeable than being called to
account for those which one has. When his
anticipations in this respect were falsified, he
was thankful, and asked no questions, as
perhaps Clare secretly hoped that he might do.
He said to himself that he detested scenes, and
wouldn't provoke one. Possibly, it might have
been better to have a scene and a reconciliation

than to allow his wife to hold him at arm's
length ; but he doubted whether any reconciliation
could be effected at this time without
concessions Which he was not prepared to
offer ; so, although her coldness made him
unhappy, he did not attempt to break it down,
but only thrcAV himself with redoubled energy
into the work and play with which every hour
of his day was easily filled.

Estrangements usually begin when quarrels
end, since quarrels are such unpleasant things
that few care to pick them with those whom
they do not love ; but Yidal and his wife
became estranged now less from indifference
than from a certain lack of moral courage on
both sides. If one of them was more to blame
than the other, it was probably Clare, who
ought to have trusted her husband until she
had clear proof that he was undeserving of
trust. She was also by far the more miserable
of the two, having little to do but to brood

over her troubles, whereas Adrian was busy
from morning to night. The latter had been
in the habit, ever since he had reached years of
discretion, of seeking sympathy and counsel
from Heriot, and he would not have departed
from this custom in his present strait, had he
not been deterred by a presentiment that
Heriot would declare him to be in the wrong.
Now, there is no sort of comfort to be got out
of the advice of those who won't take your
side ; and Yidal knew this so well that he gave
Brook Street a wide berth, thereby making it
quite plain to his friend that something was
wrong.

ESTltAXGE:ME2sT.

Heriot's circumstances and domestic arrangements
so far differed from those of most
bachelors that he enjoyed the privilege of ask
inch ladies to dinner, and availed himself of it
pretty freely during the season. When he invited
our friends in Alexandria Gardens to
honour him so far one evening, they had no
excuse for sending him a refusal, although one
of them would have been glad to escape the
lecture which he feared was in store for him.
Clare and Miss Yidal, who had not yet seen the
interior of Heriot's abode, felt the curiosity
natural to their sex to inspect a house which
owned no mistress — a house, too, which was

reported to contain artistic treasures of every
description.

Their host's drawing-room proved to be
very much what they had anticipated : that is
to say that it was filled with beautiful and
valuable objects, and that the absence of feminine
superintendence was very perceptible in
it. A man may hope to fit up a library or a
smoking-room with fair success ; but to make a
drawing-room look inhabited is a little beyond
us. Heriot had not attempted this feat. With
the exception o a few Oriental rugs, he had
added nothing to the furniture which he had
inherited, and which belonged to the period of
gilding and mirrors. The pictures, the bronzes,
the enamels, and the china which he had collected
in the course of his travels had been sent
home to Brook Street and unpacked by his
housekeeper, who had arranged them without
interference on the part of their owner. The
result would have grieved the soul of an aesthetic

dilettante ; but Heriot lead something to say
in justification of it.

You see,' he explained to the two ladies,
who were busily examining his pretty things,
'I feel that everybody who enters this room
will do me the justice to perceive that I am not
responsible for it ; whereas, if I tried to lessen
its ugliness, I should probably fall into blunders
which you couldn't forgive. Lady St. Austell
was here the other day, and she said, '• Your
drawing-room is like yourself — frankly hideous,
you know, at the first glance, but full of unexpected
beauties, if you take the trouble to look
for them." I think that was a very pretty compliment.
One doesn't make one's face ; but
one may flatter one's self that the unexpected
beauties are of one's own creation



Clare thought to herself that Lady St.
Austell's own face merited precisely the opposite
description ; the beauty of it being apparent
to careless observers, while its unexpected ugliness

became visible upon a closer scrutiny.
But she prudently refrained from saying this
aloud, and Georgina laughed and remarked :
I shall break into your house some time when
you are away, Mr. Heriot, and lay hands upon
various trifles which you will never miss.'

Do,' answered Heriot ; ' or lay hands upon
them now, which will be still better. Lady St.
Austell did. She never comes here without
carrying away some memento of her visits.
She says it will save me the trouble of mentioning
her in my welland

it was a woman who could make such
speeches as that, Clare thought, whom men
found fascinating ! Then De Wynt came in,
rubbing his hands, and the small party was
complete.

I am sorry that we are a lady short,'
Heriot said. 'Lady St. Austell, who had promised
to join us, sent about an hour ago to say
that she couldn't get off another engagement.'

It IS probable that the absence of this fifth
guest was not deeply deplored by the other
four. Adrian inwardly returned thanks to
Heaven for his deliverance from danger, and
remarked aloud : ' We shall be ever so much
jollier without outsiders.'

Yet, somehow, the evening was not a very
jolly one. De Wynt may have enjoyed it, and
so, perhaps, did Georgina ; but the remaining
three certainly did not. Heriot could not help
noticing that something was amiss between
Adrian and Clare, nor could they help being
aware that he noticed this ; so that their jot
and several efforts to behave as though all were
well failed lamentably. The presence of De
Wynt was a comfort to Adrian, since nothing
of a private nature could be said before him
during the twenty minutes that the three men
spent in the dining-room after dinner ; but he
was not to escape the interview with his friend
which he dreaded. For when the hour of

release came, and when lie had put the ladies
into their carriage, muttering something about
going down to the club to smoke a cigar,
Heriot interposed with, ' Stay and smoke your
cigar with me, Adrian ; I haven't seen anything
of you yet.' To which he could only reply,
All right, old man,' with such show of alacrity
as was at his command.

I hope it is not too late to offer my congratulations,'
Heriot said after he had led the
way into the comfortable Library, of which he
made a good deal more use than of his drawing-room.
' You have become a famous man since
you were last in this house.'

Hardly that,' answered Yidal laughing.

Oh, you are famous — don't affect modesty
with an old friend. And I am told that
you write the review of fiction in that queer
new venture of Pilkington's — if it is his venture.
Probably it is somebody else's venture,
though?'

Oh, of course. I don't know who the
principal proprietors are — Egerton, I believe,
for one — but we are all of us interested in it to
a small extent. What do you think of its
chances ? '

As a speculation, do you mean? 1 am no
judge of such matters ; but I shoidd think it ought
to pay, if Pilkington can be induced to stick to it.
I read the literary article in the last number
and thought I recognised you: touch. You
were quite right to join the staff of the ' Anglo-saxon.'
It is a brilliant one just now, and,
even if it doesn't hold together long, you will
be all the better for having been connected
with it.'

Do you think it won't hold together ? '
asked Yidal, a little anxiously.

I know nothing about it, except that
brilliant staffs have a way of splitting up after
a certain time. Perhaps this one will be the
exception that proves the rule. At any rate,

you are not dependent upon Pilkington and his
experiments. Your business is the writing of
novels, and I am very glad to think that you
are making a much better business of it than
seemed likely this time last year.'

Yidal laughed. 'Oh, yes; the money is
tumbling in. It tumbles out again, though, at
a deuce of a pace. I can assure you, Heriot,
that it costs a great deal more than a bachelor
might suppose to maintain an establishment ina
humble way on the extreme outskirts of
civilised London. I feel that I ought to belaying
by for a rainy day ; but I haven't been
able to manage it so far.'

Let us hope that there will be no rainy
days for a long time to come,' said Heriot
cheerfully. ' After such a start as you have
made, your earnings ought to increase henceforth
rather than diminish ; and if there is such
a thing as luck, I should say that you may
safely count yourself a lucky man. Up to the

present, at all events, you have got everything
that you have wished for. You ought to be
about the happiest fellow in London.'

Well, perhaps,' answered Vidal, who somehow
rather resented this imputation. ' The things
that one has wished for don't always turn out
to be all that one's fancy painted them,
though.'

'Do you mean to say that greatness is
beginning to pall upon you already ? This is
the result of too many dinners, and too much
flattery. Never mind, Adrian ; whenever you
find your palate cloyed by an over-dose of
compliments, come to me and I will administer
correctives. I can pick plenty of holes in
Two Lovers," let me tell you.'

Such is the perversity of human nature that
Adrian no sooner noticed a disposition on his
friend's part to shirk the delicate subject that
we know of, than he himself began to wish to introduce
it. It was not natural to him to keep his
VOL. II. M

distresses to himself ; moreover, he had some
hope that Heriot had abstained from condemning
him out of sheer inability to do so. So he
said, ' I don't mean that. I can swallow a fair
quantity of compliments without feeling sick,
and I don't get any more than I can manage.
But sometimes I doubt whether it was wise to
take up our abode in London. I think, perhaps,
we should have been happier down in
Cornwall, after all. That is, I think my wife
would have been happier.'

People who have been born and bred in
the country naturally long for fresh air after
they have been several months in a large town,'
remarked Heriot.

Yes ; but that isn't all. The fact of the
matter is that Clare hates society and I like
it. Well, of course, if one were having on
a Cornish moor, one would adapt one's self to
circumstances, and there would be an end of
it ; but I can't live like a hermit in London. I

don't think it ought to be expected of me that
I should;

Heriot said nothing at all, which was rather
provoking, and it was in a somewhat more
aggrieved tone that Adrian went on : 'I know
you understand how things are. It isn't pleasant
to be received with black looks after one
has talked for ten minutes to a woman who is
not even young or pretty ; it isn't pleasant to be
suspected and distrusted. I make every allowance
for difference of temperament and all that ;
still, it isn't pleasant. And it seems to me that
I should be quite wrong to give in for the sake
of a quiet life. You, at all events, will believe
that I would gladly give up many of my own
pleasures to please Clare. I haven't changed towards
her, though in some ways she has changed
a little towards me. But the truth is that she
wants what it is impossible that she should have
at any rate, so long as we Hve in London.

M 2

She really is not reasonable. Of course I
wouldn't say this to anyone but you.'

'Do you know,' observed Heriot quietly,
I think you would do more wisely not to say
it even to me.'

Very well,' answered Adrian, a good deal
affronted ; ' I won't do it again, then. I
thought perhaps you might be able to help me
out a little, and you used to be willing enough
to do that when you were asked ; but no
doubt you are quite right to snub me. It is
bad form to talk about one's ife.'

'It won't do, Adrian,' returned Heriot,
laughing good-humouredly. ' I decline to be
inveigled into the absurd position of a mediator
between two people who must understand each
other better than I can understand either of them.
Your quarrel — if it can be called a quarrel —
seems to me perfectly ridiculous. I suppose the
quarrels of lovers always do seem so to outsiders,
and it would be easy enough to give you

excellent advice, if one did not know that it
would be superfluous. You and Clare can make
friends again whenever you choose to do so,
and I imagine that you will choose before you are
much older. Anyhow, I wish you both to remain
friends with me, and therefore I shall not
say anything to either of you that I don't want
repeated to the other.'

This cavalier way of dismissing the subject
did not impose upon Adrian, who was too
familiar with Heriot's face and voice to be
deceived as to the anxiety which it was intended
to conceal. But he did not insist upon
plainer speaking, and only remarked, after
keeping silence for a short time, 'I'm glad
you don't blame me, at any rate.'

Oh, but I never said that,' returned Heriot.
If you want to know what I think of you, I
haven't the slightest objection to telling you
that I consider you an ass. You ought to
know better than to require a woman to be

reasonable, and you certainly must know, that
whatever other women may be or do, your
wife doesn't carry unreasonableness to the pitch
of wishing you to renounce all society

This being exactly what Adrian believed
that Clare did wish, the question of whether he
was more or less of an ass than Heriot gave
him credit for being seemed to remain open ;
but he did not care to bring the point forward ;
nor did he thuik it worth while to mention, ashe
had intended doing for a moment, the alarm
that he had been caused by Susan Bowman's
reappearance. He went away soon afterwards,
admitting to himself that Heriot had probably
been right in refusing to meddle between
husband and wife, yet feeling a little sore that
he had been denied the sympathy which his
friend had never before failed to extend to him.

Sympathy was, in fact, to Adrian Vidal
very much what an ancient coin was to his
father-in-law. He could make shift to do without

it at a pinch ; but lie could not deny himself
the solace of it, if it was to be had anywhere
within reach ; and when the customary
sources failed him, he was fain to seek what he
required in Grosvenor Square. With Lady St.
Austell's habits, opinions, and general conception
of life he had no more sympathy than she
had with his ; but there were certain minor
points as to which they were in complete
agreement ; and, besides, it was pleasant to be
smiled upon and made much of.

So you are going down to Polruth again,'
she said to him one afternoon. She was sipping
a cup of tea and was equipped for the
Park ; for the hour was approaching when she,
like most other ladies, felt it incumbent upon
her to take part in that daily parade which
they would find so intolerable if it were made
compulsory. Beyond the open window behind
her were banks of flowers ; the lowered sun-binds
made the light subdued ; and in the

coolness and fragrance of the room, in the
ceaseless roll of the carriages outside, even in
the aspect of the well-dressed, well-preserved
woman who sat opposite him, the jewels on
her plump white hands flashing as she raised
her tea-cup, Adrian found something that at
the same time soothed and excited his senses.
In truth, the atmosphere of London was as
delightful to him as the atmosphere of the
country is to some other people.

So you are going down to Polruth again,'
she repeated — ' dear old sleepy Polruth ! How
will you like that ? '

'I liked it very well last year,' Adrian
answered.

Ah, last year was — last year. I can
understand that you enjoyed yourself very
much then ; but one ought never to go back
to places where one has enjoyed one's self;
and to go back with the partner of one's former
joys — after having actually married her too ! '

Lady St. Austell shook her head gravely. ' I
should think it would be dreadfully depressing,'
she remarked presently.

Adrian had reasons for thinking that it
very possibly might be ; but he did not feel
inclined to state them, or to claim Lady St.
Austell's sympathy with regard to this particular
matter. ' Shall you be in Cornwall in the
course of the summer ? ' he asked ; and, feeling
that her presence in the vicinity of Polruth
would be far from an unqualified boon, he
was rather glad to hear her reply ; ' Not this
year, I believe. We are to go to Scotland
rather earlier than usual, and after that we
shall have to be in Hertfordshire until the
hunting begins. That is the worst of having so
many houses. One is obliged to hive in them
more or less, and the consequence is that
one really lives nowhere, and can never lay
one's hand upon anything that one wants.'

I don't think I should object to eighty

thousand a year, all the same,' remarked Vidal.
Or is it a hundred thousand ? '

I don't know what it is,' answered Lady
St. Austell. ' Of course one would a Teat
deal rather be rich than poor ; but the provoking
thing about money is that it seems as if
it ought to give you everything, and yet, after
a certain point, it only gives you the same
things as your neighbours have, but on a rather
larger scale. I can quite enter into the feelings
of Matthew Arnold's sick king in Bokhara, who
had wealth and fame, and all the rest of it,
but could not even save a beggar from being
stoned to death. What is the use of being
such a magnificent person if one can't do what
one wants or have what one wants ? '

What is the special thing that you want ? '
Vidal inquired.

Lady St. Austell sighed plaintively. ' Ah,
so many things ! — and all of them especial
things, too ! But it's no use thinking about

them. One thing I want, which ought not to
be impossible. I want you to come and stay
with us in Scotland. Are you fond of shooting .^
If you are, you will be able to amuse yourself
all day ; and then perhaps you will take pity
upon me, and amuse me a little in the evening.'

Thanks ; it's very kind of you,' began
Vidal hesitatingly.

Xow, I know what you are going to say,'
interrupted Lady St. Austell ; ' your wife won't
let you leave her. Well, she can come too, if
she likes. I am sure I shall be delighted to see
her. So will Lord St. Austell,' she added, with
a little titter, of which the significance escaped
her hearer.

You are extremely kind,' said Adrian
again.

And you are more than extremely foolish,'
retorted Lady St. Austell, who was not fond of
being thwarted ' Why do you allow yourself
to be so cruelly henpecked ? '

It isn't exactly that Adrian said.

Oh, but I assure you it is exactly that, and
you won't find it a bit the less inconvenient for
being called by another name. Eeally, I have
no patience with women like Mrs. Vidal! I
don't say it to annoy you, you know ; but it is
a fact that I have taken some trouble to be
polite to her, and have had nothing but rudeness
in return. As far as I am concerned, she
is perfectly welcome to be rude ; only I do most
sincerely pity you. Without vanity, I may say
for myself that I am rather more good-natured
than most people ; and if she goes on like
this she will very soon deprive you of all
your friends. I should like to have her
here for five minutes to tell her what I think
of her.'

Adrian opened his mouth ; but whether he
was going to undertake his wife's defence or
to apologise for her ingratitude will never be
known, for he had not yet got out a word when

the door was thrown open and ' ]airs. and Miss
Yidal ' were announced.

It was certainly a piece of rather bad luck
that Clare should have selected this afternoon
of all others for paying the call which she owed
after Lady St. Austell's garden party, and it
was also bad luck that Georgina, who wanted to
see the inside of the house, should have persuaded
her to come in, instead of leaving cards
at the door. The moment of her entrance was
an awkward one for everybody. Even Lady
St. Austell was a little thrown off her balance
by this speedy fulfilment of the wish that she
had just uttered, and felt no inclination to take
advantage of the opportunity thus afforded her
for speaking home truths ; while Adrian, who
had jumped up from his chair, stood smiling
foolishly, and looking a great deal more conscious
of having been caught than so seasoned
a man of the world had any business to do.

Clare, as a general thing, had far less self-command

than either of the other two ; but she
now remained perfectly composed, surprising
her husband, and compelling the respect of a
lady who respected but few things. She stayed
for about ten minutes, making conversation,
somewhat stiffly, but without apparent effort, and
exchanging cold civilities with Lady St. Austell,
who had of course shaken off her momentary
embarrassment, but who probably judged the
occasion inopportune for renewing that invitation
to Scotland which Adrian had already declined
on his wife's behalf To him Clare did
not address a word until she rose to go, when
she turned to him and asked, ' Are you coming
with us ? ' That question admitted of but one
reply ; so Adrian presently found himself
descending the staircase behind his wife and
sister, looking — and knowing that he looked—
extremely like a schoolboy who has been
pounced upon by his master when out of
bounds, and is being led back for punishment.

He was not iu an observant frame of mind ;
otherwise he might possibly have noticed a red
baize door, giving access to the back stairs,
which was cautiously opened an inch or two ashe
passed. Behind that door might have been
seen the exultant countenance of Miss Susan
Bowman, who was rubbing her hands softly,
and who laughed aloud when the three visitors
had disappeared. This was indeed a treat !
Susan required nobody to tell her that the
meeting between Mr. Yidal and his wife had
been unpremeditated on both sides, and, having
noticed the expression of their respective countenances
as they passed her post of observation,
she had little difficulty in picturing to herself
the sort of interview which would be likely to
take place between them on their return home.

'Oh, my dear friend and benefactor,' she
murmured, ' what an evening you are goincr to
have ! I shouldn't wonder if you had been
telling a few little innocent lies of late about

the number of times you have been to see her
ladyship, and I shouldn't wonder if you had to
confess the lot of them. Tears? — bless you,
yes ! you'll get plenty of them : and you're not
partial to tears, you know. You'll have to
make some promises, too, and then you'll break
them, and then you'll be found out again ; and
so it will go on till you wish you were dead.
That wife of yoiu-s has got a nice, soft, pretty
face of her own ; but there was a look upon it
just now which makes me suspect that she can
scratch as well as purr — and she'll let you find
it out to-night, unless I'm very much mistaken.'


But Susan was mistaken, as it happened,
and although Mrs. Yidal did indeed find it
necessary to request a private interview with
her husband that evening, Lady St. Austell's
name was not mentioned in the course of it,
and it was she, not he, who found it a painful
one.

When Clare followed Adrian into his study,
after the rest of the household had retired to
bed, and began : ' Adrian, I have something to
speak to you about,' he groaned in spirit, fearing
the worst ; and nothing could have exceeded
his reef when it turned out that all she had to
say was that she was at the end of her resources,
and that the household expenditure could no
longer by any possibility be kept within the
limits assigned to it some months before. He
did not in the least realise what it cost her to
make this avowal ; he was far from imagining
that, in order to avoid making it sooner, she
had deprived herself of every personal luxury
that could be dispensed with, and that to her
somewhat disordered fancy it appeared as
though by admitting her failure to accomplish
her duty as a housewife, she were in some sort
condoning the offences which he, on his side,
had committed against her.

Thy didn't you tell me this before ? ' he
VOL. ir. N

asked, unlocking the drawer of his writing-table
and taking out all the loose cash that he
had by him. ' Of course, an extra person being
in the house must make a difference, and one
can't dine one's friends for nothing. We'll have
a supplementary vote now and increase the
estimates for the future. What shall we put it
at ? Half as much again ? All right ; and if
that isn't enough, you must let me know. I
can always make up a deficit by a little extra
work.'

This was certainly a liberal way of doing
things, for Adrian's coffers were by no means
overflowing, and he thought that his wife
woukl at least reward him with a few words of
thanks. But she did nothing of the kind. She
only gathered up the money, remarking, ' I am
sorry to have been such a bad manager,' and
moved towards the door.

Adrian let her go. It seemed to him that
she made an almost imperceptible halt upon the

threshold, as if she thought he might be going
to call her back, and, indeed, he was more than
half inclined to do so. But he resisted the
weakness. What would be the good, he thought,
of entering upon explanations which would certainly
not be held satisfactory, and listening to
reproaches of which he could not admit the
justice ? Time and change of scene would do
their work, he hoped ; and it was better to
trust to such old-established remedies than to
the doubtful one of a scene, followed by a
possible treaty of peace.

3r2

CHAPTEE XXI.

A CRUEL CALUMNY.

Heriot was a poor sleeper at the best of times;
and when anything occurred to disturb or
perplex him after ten o'clock in the evening,
his chances of rest before daybreak were small
indeed. The brief conversation which he had
held with Adrian upon the subject of the latter 's
domestic troubles had worried him a good deal
more than he had chosen to show ; and when
he had read a book in bed until his head
ached, without inducing the faintest sensation
of drowsiness, he blew out his candle, and
resigned himself to the fact that he was going
to have a night of it. This being by no means
his first experience of the kind, he did not

count up to ten thousand, or try to see an
endless flock of sheep leaping over a stile, or
adopt any other of the futile remedies by
means of which some people, similarly circumstanced,
are wont to goad themselves to the
verge of insanity, but lay patiently on the flat
of his back, like a sensible man, and reflected.

And this, among other things, was what he
said to himself : ' It's rather a hard case when
a man can do nothing for his two best friends,
except hold his tongue. Here are these silly
people drifting apart, thinking evil of one
another, and doing all they know to build up a
wall between themselves which may gradually
reach such a height that they will never
see each other again — and all about nothing !
Half a dozen words would set the whole stupid
misunderstanding straight ; only it isn't by me
that they can be spoken. I was right to shut
Adrian up ; he has a strong case, and it
wouldn't do to argue it with him. As for Clare,

she has next to no case at all ; so that argument
with her would be even more hopeless.
The best thing that could happen to them
would be to have a downright quarrel ; but
I'm afraid it won't come to that, and if I interfere
they will both quarrel with me, as sure as
this is a world of fools. Evidently, there's
nothing for it but to stand on the brink and
watch them sinking or swimming, as the case
may be.'

But such a philosophical course of action
was hardly within the compass of one whose
heart was softer than his head, and Heriot felt
that there was a hope — a rather forlorn one, it
was true, still a hope — that he might to some
extent benefit, by means of speech, those whom
he desired to serve. No one knew better than
he did that the real source of their trouble lay
in total dissimilarity of character, and that if it
had not appeared in this direction, it would assuredly
have done so, sooner or later, in that ;

but just as there are certain latent maladies
which can only be arrested when they manifest
themselves in a specific form, so it seemed
possible that something might be done for this
estranged couple by removing what was at all
events the ostensible cause of their disagreement.
Of course, it was not certain that such
a removal could be effected ; but Lady St.
Austell, like many other selfish people, was
extremely good-natured, and if it were represented
to her that she was bringing a vast
amount of unhappiness upon others, with very
little prospect of counterbalancing advantage to
herself, she would be quite as likely as not to
give Adrian this songes and appoint some more
suitable young man to take his place.

So Heriot thought he would make the
attempt. An attack of illness, which was the
penalty that he invariably paid for fidgeting
himself overmuch about any matter, prevented
him from giving effect to his resolution for

some days ; but, as soon as he was able to go
out again, he betook himself to Grosvenor
Square, and arrived there, as it chanced, just
after Adrian and Clare had escaped from the
comfortless visit of ceremony described in the
last chapter. Lady St. Austell's carriage was
at the door ; but, after Heriot had been kept
waiting a few minutes, he was told that she
would receive him, and she interrupted his
apologies by declaring that she would much
rather talk to him than go out for a drive.

I am only thankful that you didn't come
in five minutes ago,' she said. ' If you had, I
should certainly have burst out laughing, and
then I don't know what would have happened.
I do wish people wouldn't have such foolish
wives ! '

Whose husband have you been qualifying to
match his wife in that respect r ' asked Heriot.

Oh, nobody's. If that poor Mrs. Vidal

only knew what a perfectly harmless, and
indeed improving thing platonic affection is, I
am sure she would be a far happier woman.'

ISTot a doubt of it ; but we must have
patience with the dimness of humanity and forgive
those who are not yet educated up to our
standard. So it is Mrs. Vidal who has been
behaving foolishly ? '

I can't quite say that. No ; she behaved
wonderfully well, considering. She was very
freezing ; but she was not rude. I imagine,
though, that she doesn't allow her husband even
to pay calls without her, for I never saw anyone
look so utterly dumb foundered as he did
when she was announced. Oddly enough, we
had just been talking about her, and as I was
telling him in a friendly way how idiotic it was
of him to let himself be ridden over roughshod
by her, in she walked, accompanied by that
grenadier of a woman who, I am told, scampers

about the Cannibal Islands without any clothes
on during the greater part of the year.'

Eeally, I think there must have been a
trifling exaggeration about that report,' said
Heriot.

Perhaps so ; it doesn't much signify. She
was quite clothed to-day, and I presume she
was in her right mind ; though why she should
have planted herself before me, with her hands
on her knees, and stared at me as if I were
some new kind of savage, I don't know.'

Open-mouthed admiration,' said Heriot.
It couldn't have been anything else, you
know.'

Well, whatever it was, it was rather embarrassing.
And I think these good people
might understand that I am not so desperately
eager to cultivate them, after all. Mr. Vidal
is all very well, and I am always delighted to
see him ; but I don't know whether I was
quite right in trying to take up his wife. I

only did it out of pure benevolence, and I
certainly never expected her to put on airs with
me. It is just a little bit impertinent. Don't
you think so yourself? '

Oh, I shouldn't submit to it for a single
moment,' answered Heriot ; ' I can't think why
you do. These Vitals evidently don't know
their proper place, and ought to be put back
into it without delay. The next time he comes,
you had better give him to understand as much,
and then he won't come any more.'

Lady St. Austell snifFed meditatively at
her gold-mounted bottle of smelling-salts.

H-m-m ! But you see, I should miss him,
poor fellow ! He really is very nice.'

You don't say so ! Has he actually succeeded
in touching your heart, in spite of the
inferiority of rank to which you are so alive ? '

Oh, that was you ; / never said anything
about their inferiority. No ; I don't know
that he has exactly touched my heart, as you

call it, yet ; but I fancy that if we saw more of
each other we might perhaps arrive at — san
understanding. But it is never any use to talk
about things of this kind with you, because
you have no more feeling than a stock or a
stone.'

You will allow that I am capable of
friendship, however,' Heriot began.

But he was prevented from explaining what
bearing this alleged capacity of his had upon
the matter under discussion by the entrance of
no less a person than Lord St. Austell himself.
That Lord St. Austell should enter his wife's
drawing-room before dinner was quite an event.
He very seldom acted in that way without
some special reason, and the moment that Lady
St. Austell, who stood considerably in awe of
him, saw the grin upon his features, she felt
sure that he had come to torment her — as
indeed he had.

'I trust I am not indiscreet,' said he,

peering into the semi-darkness which had
now fallen upon the room. ' Oh, it's only Mr.
Heriot ; I thought, perhaps, it might be somebody
else. Mr. Heriot don't count, does he ?
He is something like me, out of the running.
Ah, well ! we shall all three be laid on the
shelf soon — very soon.'

You don't generally behave as if you considered
yourself shelved,' retorted Lady St.
Austell, out of whom innuendoes of this description
never failed to get a rise. 'It is a pity
you didn't come in a little earlier. You would
have seen that pretty Mrs. Yidal whom you
admire so much.'

Then I'm very sorry I didn't come in a
little earlier,' responded his lordship. ' I admire
Mrs. Yidal immensely — almost as much as you
admire her husband. But then I am so careful ; I
keep my admiration within bounds ; I wouldn't
compromise a lady for the world. whereas you,
I am afraid, really did rather compromise a

lady — yourself, I mean — at Eichmond the other
day. Did I tell you what the Grand Duchess
of Saxe-Tugendheim said about you? She
asked me whether what she had heard was
true, and that you were very emancipate. I
wonder what she could have meant ! Perhaps
Mr. Heriot, who has been so much abroad, can
enlighten us. I answered her Serene Highness
that I really didn't know, but that I thought, if
you had ever been afflicted in that way, you
must have outgrown it. At what age does a
woman generally cease to be emancipate, Mr.
Heriot?'

Heriot, who did not like Lord St. Austell,
took no notice of the question ; but Lady St.
Austell, as her husband was very well aware,
had a great dread of being looked upon
coldly by high personages, and showed signs
of uneasiness. ' Some wretch must have been
saying horrid things about me ! ' she exclaimed.
1 can't think what you mean by my having

compromised myself that day. I was particularly
careful to do nothing of the kind

It seemed to me that you were,' agreed
her tormentor. 'Didn't you break down a
little towards the end of the day, though ? It
struck me that you became rather conspicuously
invisible, and that your friend the author
followed suit — all except his boots ; I saw his
boots.'

But that was after the Grand Duchess had
left.'

'So it was ; and of course that made a
difference. Still, the wretches who tell tales
remained. You can't escape the eyes of these
malevolent gossips, even when you are out of
sight ; and the mischief of it is that they laugh
at you. One doesn't mind being accused of
wickedness, and one can stand being called
emancipate — especially if one doesn't know what
it means. But to be sniggered at by Tom,
Dick, and Harry is not pleasant. I really

almost think I should throw the author over, if
I were you.'

That ironical tone always alarmed Lady
St. Austell. ' Do you wish me to drop Mr.
Vidal ? ' she asked quite humbly.

I ? Oh, dear no ! Pray don't mind me.
Nothing delights me more than to see you
amused and making the most of your time ;
and, as I was saying just now, we can none of
us hope to remain young much longer. All I
would venture to suggest to you. in your own
interest, is that you should not take up with newspaper
men. They're not to be trusted. Nowhere,'
continued Lord St. Austell, producing with
evident relish the new number of the ' Anglo-saxon
' — ' here is a paper for which I believe
your friend Mr. Vidal is partly responsible, and
just see what he has the impudence to say
about you.'

Lady St. Austell took the paper and read
the following paragraph, which formed one of a
series of items headed ' Social Scraps ' :

The evergreen wife of a well-known and
highly-respected sporting peer was made the
subject of some rather severe strictures by one
of the Eoyal guests whom she had the honour
of entertaining not long since. " On devant
savoir vieillir^'' and other audible remarks to
the like effect, cannot have been very agreeable
hearing for a lady who is popularly credited
with having solved the problem of making the
clock stand still

It isn't meant for me,' gasped poor Lady
St. Austell ; ' it's meant for Lady Glastonbury.'

But her lord shook his head and grinned
more than ever. He had come in for the
express purpose of showing his wife this cruel
paragraph, and the effect of it upon her was all
that he had hoped it would be. * I fear,' said
he, ' that there can't be any doubt as to who is
meant. Lady Glastonbury, you know, is a
widow, and the reference to myself is unmistakable.
"A well-known sporting peer" — I

VOL. II. o

am certainly that; and I believe I may add
that I am also highly respected. You, apparently,
are not. You're only " evergreen," and
some uncertainty seems to be felt as to the appropriateness
of even that epithet „ Too bad,
upon my word, the way newspapers are conducted
nowadays ! I should have thought Mr.
Pilkington would have been above publishing
such scurrility ; but nothing is sacred to a
newspaper man. You have warmed a Vidal
in your bosom (figuratively speaking), and he
has rewarded you after the usual fashion of
those reptiles. Well, I must be going now.
Don't let this distress you. II n'y a que la verite
qui blesse, you know, and of course these insinuations
are palpably false.'

And with that parting shot Lord St. Austell
decamped gleefully.

CHAPTEE XXn.

Plain LANGUAGE.

Heriot with difficulty resisted a desperate inclination
to burst out laughing. He did not
feel very merry ; but the spectacle of a woman
cast down into the depths of dejection because
somebody had asserted that somebody else had
asserted the unquestionable fact that she was
no longer young had in it that mixture of the
pathetic and the ludicrous which is more apt
to excite laughter than the broadest farce.
Probably nothing on earth could have moved
Lady St. Austell more profoundly than the
publication of that horrid little anecdote. If
he were to appeal to the better part of her
nature — and it had a better part, though so



entangled with the worse one as to be hardly-separable
from it — if he were to tell her that,
by toying with an idle fancy, she might quite
possibly bring misery upon others in comparison
with which her own present vexation was the
merest childishness, she simply wouldn't understand
him. She would see neither the comic
nor the tragic side of the business. In her
defective mental vision the great things of life
were small, and the small great. It would
have seemed to her as impossible that a woman
should break her heart over the unfaithfulness
of a husband or lover as it would to Clare
Vidal that a woman should feel all light to
have gone out of the world because people
had discovered that her charms were on the
wane. Lovers are replaced, and husbands are
forgotten. Lady St. Austell might have said ;
but who can give us back our lost youth ?

Heriot thought of all this while he listened
to Lady St. Austell's eager and agonised questions.

Did he believe that Mr. Yidal had
really had anything to do with the insertion
of that monstrous paragraph in the 'Anglo-saxon
' ? Did he believe that the Grand
Duchess had really made the speech reported
by Lord St. Austell ? Could it have been the
Grand Duchess who had said ' Faut savoir
vieille ' ? or could it — dreadful thought ! — have
been an even more distinguished personage ?

Heriot answered her and pacified her to
the best of his ability. He was quite sure that
Adrian had had nothing to do with the paragraph
complained of, nor indeed with any
words printed in the ' Anglo-saxon ' save such as
surmounted his own signature. ' As to what
he Princes and Princesses may have said, you
ought to be a better judge of that than I.
They are reputed to be very good-natured,
however, and I doubt whether they would
make " audible remarks " about any one who
was entertaining them. If you want to know

what I think, I suspect that the Grand Duchess's
speech was an invention of Lord St. Austell's.
Whether he is also responsible for the newspaper
story, I can't say.'

He could not be such a malignant wretch ! '
cried the injured lady. But, upon further
reflection, she admitted that he was malignant
enough for anything, and seemed to derive a
good deal of comfort from that conviction.
That such horrors should have appeared in
print was very sad, very painful ; but it was
something to be able to believe that Eoyal and
Serene Highnesses had been as much calumniated
in the matter as herself. ' I think,' said
she musingly, 'that I will write a note to
Mr. Pilkington, and tell him that he will beheld
personally responsible for this reckless
insolence. He knows that I can make things
very uncomfortable for him if he offends me.'

And it may be stated here that Lady St.
Austell actually did this, and that in the next

number of the ' Anglo-saxon ' appeared the following
disclaimer : — ' We regret to find that
a foolish (and, as we are assured, absolutely
baseless) report of certain remarks said to have
been made by a Eoyal personage at the house
of a lady of distinction has caused serious
annoyance in more quarters than one. It
must be distinctly understood that the items
printed under the heading of" Social Scraps" are
what they purport to be, merely gossip ; that
is, current rumours, which may or may not be
true. Personally, we dislike and deprecate the
publication of such trivialities, which the public
taste, or want of taste, appears, nevertheless,
to demand. — Ed. " Anglo-saxon." '

But the above extraordinary editorial utterance
did not, of course, see the light until
nearly four weeks after the day with which weare
at present concerned, and Lady St. Austell
was, for the moment, less anxious to be avenged
upon the ' Anglo-saxon ' than to convince herself

and her hearer that her husband, and he alone,
was to blame for this anguish.

This,' she said, ' is quite of a piece with
what his conduct has always been. No sooner
do I become attached to any one than he makes
himself so disagreeable that I am obliged to
break with that person. It was very much in
this way that he began to go on about poor
Johnny Spencer ; and I do think it is rather
needlessly cruel of him, considering that I
never dream of making a fuss about his flirtations,
which, as you know, are a thousand times
worse than mine.'

It's abominable,' answered Heriot ; ' but
it can't be helped. So, then, you wil have to
drop Yidal after all, you think ? '

I would drop anybody or anything rather
than be so persecuted ; but perhaps I shall not
be driven to it. I hope I may not ; for I feel
sure that the poor young man finds some consolation
in my society, and, as I was saying

before this sickening interruption took place,
he really is very nice.'

I think you had much better drop him
said Heriot.

But why ? You are a friend of his, and
you always say that you are a friend of mine
too ; why should you grudge us any few stray
hours of happiness that we can manage to
secure in this disappointing world ? '

Well,' answered Heriot, ' I will tell you
why. Firstly, because these stray hours would
give no happiness worth speaking of to you,
and probably none whatever to him. Secondly,
because they would certainly cause unhappiness
to Mrs. Yidal, who is also a friend of mine, and
who has some slight claim to be considered.
I don't say that it isn't very foolish of her to
be jealous of you : in my opinion it is. But
the fact remains that she is inclined to be so ;
and therefore I want you to make a little
sacrifice for once, and spare her annoyance.'

Lie ought not to be encouraged to be so
selfish,' returned Lady St. Austell pouting.

Heriot was too displeased to be amused.
Selfish ! ' he exclaimed ; ' and pray, what are
you ? Did it ever occur to you, I wonder, that
there is anything shameful or contemptible in
the kind of life that you lead ? To such a
woman as Mrs. Vidal, you may be sure that it
would seem almost inconceivably so. To get
through the time somehow, to flirt as long as
flirting remains possible, to use a coronet on
your note-paper, to be gaped at by inferior
mortals and to tremble at the frown of a
German Grand Duchess — what noble ambitions
! — what an ideal existence ! I don't know
whether you believe in Christianity; most
likely you think nothing about the matter ; but
I suspect that, if you were driven into a corner,
you would hardly have the courage to call
yourself an infidel. Your cynicism is only
skin-deep, like your loves, or platonic affections,

or whatever you may be pleased to call them.
You have never looked things deliberately in the
face, as Lord St. Austell has, and said to yourself
that you will eat and drink, for tomorrow
you die. If you were told that you would
literally have to die tomorrow, you would be
frightened out of your wits — you know you
would. You would send off post-haste for the
parson, and see whether something couldn't be
done with bell, book, and candle. Well, now
let me advise you, as a friend, to do a good
action or two while you can, so as to have
something in hand when that day comes. And
while I am being so candid, allow me to ask
you one more question. Have you any lurking
idea that you can get Adrian Vidal to fall in
love with you ? If you have, disabuse your
mind of it. He is in love with his wife ; and
if he were not, he would be no more likely to
become enamoured of you than I am. Try to
believe that, for it is the truth ; and then.

perhaps, you may find it a little more easy to
set Mrs. Vidal an example of unselfishness.'

This diatribe, which was not at all in
Heriot's usual style, so astonished Lady St.
Austell that at first she suspected him of having
suddenly gone out of his mind. Then she
thought she would quarrel with him ; but her
indomitable good nature got the better of this
impulse, and she ended by laughing a little
nervously.

After that,' said she, ' I think I had better
retire to my bedroom and reflect upon my sins.
I am sorry to be obliged to send you away ;
but it is getting rather late, and I am dining
out to-night.'

Heriot had no objection to being sent away.
He did not want to weaken the effect of his
outburst by further speech ; and, as he withdrew,
he flattered himself that he had at least
made some impression upon her ladyship.
Had he spoken with less heat, he might have

chosen his words more carefully, and thus
avoided producing an impression which was
hardly calculated to further the end that he
had in view. A few hours later, only two
assertions out of his harangue remained in Lady
St. Austell's memory — namely, that in Mrs.
Vidal's eyes she was shameful and contemptible,
and that it was out of her power to make Mr.
Vidal fall in love with her. That being so, it
was scarcely surprising that the dislike which
she already felt for Mrs. Vidal should have
been intensified, or that she should have determined
to show that Mr. Vidal could be made
to fall in love with her quite as easily as other
people had been.

CHAPTEE XXIII.

Oddly JOKE.

It is a long lane that has no turning. The
first of August came at last, as all days come
some slowly, some quickly, some bringing
good things and some evil — according to the
beneficent law of compensation which makes
the world go round. Thus, what caused joy to
Clare Yidal was matter for regret to others, and
a sorrowful man was Mr. De Wynt when the
day approached on which the house in Alexandra
Gardens was to be closed to him for some
months to come. He dined with his friends
on the last evening, and played a succession of
such mournful little dirges after dinner that
Clare's heart was moved with pity, and she

crossed over to the piano to try and comfort
him.

So it's all over, Mrs. Vidal,' he said.

Oh no, it isn't,' answered Clare ; ' we are
only going away for a short holiday, all of us.
I suppose you are going too.'

Yes ; I shall have to go and stay with an
uncle of mine, who says he means to leave me
all his property, and who takes his equivalent
out of me beforehand by making me trudge
over acres of arable land with him every day.
I don't call that much of a holiday, you know.
And I shall be back in London again long
before you are.'

We shall be back in the beginning of the
winter,' said Clare. ' And perhaps,' she added,
we may induce Georgina to come and stay
with us again then.'

'Yes, if she hasn't started for Greenland's
icy mountains or Africa's coral strand by that
time,' observed De Wynt ruefully.

'You must prevent her from doing that,'
said Clare.

Oh, I can't, you know. What little influence
I have with Miss Vidal is due simply to
my careful self-effacement. If I were to assert
myself, she would knock me down and jump
upon me at once, so to speak.'

If you allow yourself to be jumped upon,
jumped upon you will be,' observed Clare.
You ought not to allow it. Shall I let you
into a secret ? If you want to increase your
influence with Georgina, you had better treat
her with a little less deference. Don't you
know that men are born to command and
women to obey ? '

The little man put his head on one side and
considered this. ' Well,' he said at length, ' I
shouldn't wonder if you were right. But,
seriously, Miss Yidal is so much my superior
that I can't quite imagine myself ordering her
about.'

Mr. De Wynt,' said Georgina, coming up
at this moment, 'you are to be at the Great
Western terminus at nine o'clock tomorrow
morning, please, to say good-bye to Mr. and
Mrs. Yidal ; and after that, you can drive with
me to the Brighton station and take my ticket
for me.'

This, at all events, was an order to which
no objection could be made, and it struck
Clare as a hopeful sign that Georgina, who was
so very well able to take care of herself, should
think it necessary to secure an escort from
Paddington to Victoria.

But in truth her thoughts were, at this
time, not quite so much at the service of her
neighbours as usual, and it must be owned that
as soon as she found herself seated in the railway
carriage, opposite Adrian, and speeding
westward as fast as an express train could carry
her, she straightway forgot those whom she
was leaving. Indeed, she asked for nothing

VOL. II. P

better than to forget. To forget London, and
the butcher, and the baker, and the terrible
cook — yes ; and to forget other troubles than
these, if only that were feasible. Her heart
grew lighter with every league that was placed
between her and the hated metropolis. The
panacea which had suggested itself to Adrian
suggested itself also to her, and it seemed to
her that when once they were at Cardrew
again, all would be well. Almost before she
had realised that they were really off at last,
they had left Swindon behind them and were
tearing away again towards Bath and Bristol.
Then, as the day wore on, came Exeter ; then,
after some slackening of speed, Plymouth,
where speed ceased altogether, and the familiar
jog-trot of the dear old Cornwall railway
began.

Meanwhile, Adrian, who had been reading
the papers a little and sleeping a good deal, had
been furtively watching his wife's face in the

intervals of slumber, and had in some measure
read her thoughts. He, too, longed to forgive
and forget ; he, too, was not sorry to have
bidden farewell to London for a season, and
cherished hopes of happier days to come. So
that here were two people eager to kiss and
be friends, and the only question was which of
them should speak the first word.

That neither of them did speak it was
owing to the melancholy circumstance that
neither of them felt disposed towards unconditional
surrender. Each firmly believed the
other to be in the wrong ; and, though ready
to forgive, could not conscientiously ask to be
forgiven. And as there was no open quarrel
between them, there could be no sudden peacemaking
; nor, as it turned out, any gradual one
either.

The first few days at Cardrew were entirely
delightful ones for Clare. The clamorous
welcome of the boys, her mother's excited

ADRIAN VIDAL

garrulity, Mr. Irvine's placid contentment, and
all the old home sights and sounds from which
she had been separated for so long, were
sufficient to satisfy her soul for that length of
time. But then she began to feel the difference
that a year had made in her life. There were
no more long walks with Adrian now — neither
he nor she would have dreamt of proposing
such a thing ; instead of devising stratagems to
escape the company of her brothers, she found
herself striving to accomplish just the contrary
result ; there was a difficulty in getting through
the hours which was quite new to her, and
gradually her spirits sank to almost as low a
level as they had reached in London. Indeed, a
sense of disappointment, of something being
wanting, extended to the whole party — even to
Mrs. Irvine, who said she was afraid she must
be growing old.

Not that I haven't plenty of activity left in
me yet ; but I don't enjoy hurrying about as I

used, and I suppose we must look upon that asa
symptom, \yhat will happen to Polruth
when I die is more than I can imagine ! One
is bound to believe that the world will manage
to get on somehow after one's death, just as it
did before one was born ; but I can't help
thinking that for a time everything will be at
sixes and sevens. There are those wicked
Entire lads, for instance, who will persist in
going about robbing hen-roosts. They would
have been in a reformatory long ago if it
hadn't been for me ; and though you may say
that that would have been a good thing for the
community, it wouldn't have been at all a good
thing for their poor mother. And that is only
one case out of many. Without vanity, I do
think I shall be missed.'

Such sad forebodings were not of a nature
to dispel the gloom which had fallen upon the
household, and the arrival of Heriot did not
greatly improve matters. Mrs. Irvine confided

to him that she felt uneasy about her daughter,
and asked him whether he did not think her
looking ill and miserable ; but he only replied
that, though Clare did indeed seem to be a
little out of sorts, it was best to take no notice
of these vague maladies, for which rest and
fresh air were the best cures. To him there
was nothing vague in the nature of Clare's
malady ; but it was certainly one which notice
was more likely to increase than to diminish,
and he accordingly endeavoured to remain
unconscious of it ; in which effort, as a matter
of course, he failed as signally as Clare and
Adrian did in their attempts to behave as
though they were upon friendly terms.

In many ways doth the full heart reveal

The presence of the love it would conceal ;

But in far more th' estranged heart lets know

The absence of the love which yet it fain would show.

Mrs. Irvine, who was not a particularly
keen observer, and had, besides, a happy

faculty of ignoring what lie did not wish to
see, perceived nothing more than that her
daughter was not in the best of health ; but
Heriot, as the young people knew, was less
easily hoodwinked : hence the intercourse of
these three, which had formerly been so
pleasant, became a trifle strained and painful.
However, they kept up appearances, avoided
perilous allusions to bygone days, went on
excursions together, which all of them found
rather long, and made frequent use of the boat,
now commanded by Charley, in the absence of
the more experienced Bob.

That strange perversity which leads us all
to pride ourselves upon our proficiency in what
we are most ignorant of caused Charley to
fancy that he knew something about sailing,
even as it had once deluded his brother into
taking charge of a dog-cart freighted with
valuable Ives ; and his eagerness to push a
cruise somewhat beyond the well-known limits

of Polriith Bay was not to be withstood by-persons
who were beginning to persuade themselves
that they really didn't much care
whether they were drowned or not. So one
day Charley got out the Ordnance map and
pointed out upon it a diminutive creek, which,
he said, could be easily reached in two hours
with a fair wind, and which is known by the
amazing name of Poddly Joke. Searchers after
the picturesque in North Cornwall will be aware
that the term Joke — or Choke, as some prefer to
write it — is not of uncommon occurrence in
those parts, as applied to an inlet of the sea
(the derivation of Poddly awaits an interpreter) ;
and admirers of Mr. Brett's pictures will be
familiar with the colouring which renders such
places remarkable. Poddly Joke, seen at low
water on a fine day, has an attraction for the
artistic eye — beyond that bestowed upon it by
white sands, dark blue sea, and a background
of green hills — in the curious bloom which

overspreads its rocks, and which, on closer
inspection, is discovered to be caused by an
incrustation of myriads of mussels ; and as this
phenomenon (at least so far as Charley Irvine
and the present humble chronicler are aware)
is peculiar to the Cornish coast, it seemed only
right that a stranger like Mr. Yidal should be
made acquainted with it.

Adrian offered no objection to Charley's
proposal ; but perhaps neither he nor his wife
would have consented so readily, could they
have foreseen that at the last moment Heriot
would be prevented by a slight attack of illness
from accompanying them. Between four
people conversation can always be kept up ;
but when there are only three in a boat, and
when the attention of one of them is concentrated
wholly upon navigation, the remaining
two may under certain circumstances find the
task of entertaining one another a little difficult.
Yet there are conditions which seem to make

silence natural ; and as Clare and Adrian were
wafted out of Polrutli harbour by a light northeasterly
breeze, they felt that there was nothing
oppressive in the drowsy taciturnity which fell
upon them. The weather, Charley averred,
was precisely what it ought to be. The glass,
it was true, had gone back a little during the
night, and away to the south-westward the
haze had a somewhat dark appearance, as
though clouds might be massing up behind it ;
but the change, if there was going to be one,
would certainly not come for another two tides ;
and the wind, supposing that it held, would serve
them almost as well for returning as for going.
In the meantime it was fortunate that all
three occupants of the boat happened to be
good sailors, for there was a long swell running,
which increased after they had rounded Polruth
Head, and which ended by giving Adrian
matter for reflection. ' How are you going toland
us, Charley ? ' he asked after a time.

'Oh, we shall run the boat up on the beach
somewhere answered Charley airily.

But, my good fellow, you can't beach a
boat just when and where you please; and with
this swell, you might easily run her into a surf
that would convert her into watchword in
precious quick time. Which way does the
place with the sweet-sounding name face ? '

How on earth should I know ? I've only
been there once in my life, and it didn't occur
to me to take its bearings at the time. West
by south, or something near that, I should
say.'

And the sea is at present running from the
south-west, as perhaps you haven't noticed. I
don't pretend to your nautical knowledge, but
that looks to me very much as if the wind
meant backing before long.'

Oh, well, if we can't land, we can't,'
answered Charley. ' I dare say you'll be able
to get a very good idea of the place without

going on shore ; and as for the wind backing,
that'll be all the better for us. We shall only
have to run home before it.'

Yes — if we don't get too much of it. Do
you know, Charley, I think we might as well
give this up for to-day. The sea is rising every
minute, and there's a look about the sky that I
don't altogether like.'

'Why, what do you think is going to
happen ? ' asked the other contemptuously.

I think it's going to blow, that's all,'

And if it does ? Little do you know the
sea-going qualities of the " Midget " ! I'd
undertake to sail her from Polruth to St. Ives
in half a gale of wind.*

I have no doubt you would undertake a
great many insane things with a light heart ;
but it don't follow that I wish my funeral to be
undertaken just yet. I vote for getting about
without loss of time.'

Bosh ! ' growled Charley, who had that

fine belief in himself which distinguished the
Irvine brotherhood, and who did not much
care about being dictated to by Londoners.
What do you vote for, Clare ? '

Clare had not paid much heed to the
discussion. She was sitting with her back
towards the disputants, her elbow resting on
the gunwale and her cheek on her hand. She
started and turned round on being addressed.
Oh, I don't care,' she answered. ' Do as you
think best. Perhaps we had better go on, now
that we have come so far.'

Clare doesn't know anything about it,'
cried Adrian impatiently.

Come to that, I'm not sure that you
know a great deal about it yourself,' retorted
Charley.

For a moment Adrian was half inclined to
quarrel with the boy, whose tone was disagreeably
aggressive ; but he reflected that, after all,
the boat was not his, and he disliked rows. So

with something of a laugh he said, ' Take your
own way, then ; only don't blame me if three
corpses are laid out on the shining sands tomorrow
morning.'

I'll promise not to say a word if I'm one of
'em,' answered Charley, his good humour returning
with the submission of his opponent.
It's all right, my dear chap. I ought to know
something about this coast, seeing that I was
born and bred here, and I've never drowned
anybody yet.'

Never had the chance, perhaps,' muttered
Adrian ; but he said no more, not liking to
appear over-timorous, and at this moment the
sun, which had become gradually obscured by
a thin veil of mist, suddenly burst forth, as if
to show that there was no ground for his apprehensions.


For a considerable time nobody spoke.
Charley was whistling softly, and every now
and then relinquishing the tiller to raise his

hands as tliougli he were holding a gun and
taking an imaginary shot at a gull overhead ;
Clare, who had brought a book with her,
had opened it and was pretending to read ;
while Adrian, with his hands in his pockets and
his head thrown back, was trying to hit upon
something terse and original to say about M.
Zola and his school in the next number of the
Anglo-saxon.' He was not very successful, for
the slow motion, the silence, and the salt-laden
atmosphere were less adapted to stimulate the
brain than to induce that pleasant vacuity of
mind which commonly precedes slumber, and
his thoughts wandered idly away in all directions
until he ceased attempting to control
them. But off Town Head the breeze fell
light, and then died away altogether, the sail
flapping and cracking as the little boat rolled
heavily in the ever-increasing swell.

This is very disagreeable,' remarked Clare,
rousing herself and shutting up her book. ' Are

we likely to be becalmed much longer, do you
think?'

'I don't think we are,' answered her husband,
with an upward glance.

The sun had vanished again by this time ;
the sky had changed from silvery grey to a dull
leaden hue, and overhead detached streamers
of scud were sailing up from the south-west.
Even as Adrian spoke a sudden puff of wind
caught them and swept past, making a dark
shadow upon the water, and bringing with it a
few drops of rain.

Just catch hold of those brails, Adrian, will
you ? ' said Charley, ' and haul on them when I
tell you. — Clare, you might as well take the
sheet, if you don't mind. No, not like that ! —
don't let it slip through your fingers ! '

But, indeed, it was no such easy matter fora
lady to retain command over the sheet, which
was tugging against her like a live thing ; for
now the wind had overtaken them in good

earnest, and the ' Midget 'was tearing through the
water at a speed which soon made it necessary
to shorten sail. The sea was covered with
white caps, and what with the spray and the
stinging fain, our three mariners, who had
omitted to provide themselves with macintoshes,
were wet through in five minutes. Adrian
glanced at Clare, who looked a little startled,
but did not seem to be frightened, and then at
Charley, whose face expressed considerable
uneasiness. The latter nudged him presently,
and, pointing to a stretch of sand dimly visible
through the rain and mist, called out, ' Poddly
Joke ! Do you see '

I see Poddly, if that's its name,' growled
Adrian ; ' but hang me if I can see the joke !
What the devil are you going to do, man .^ ' he
asked, seeing that Charley had relieved Clare
of the sheet, and was now steering straight for
the shore.

Beach her,' replied the other laconically.

VOL. II. Q

You can't, you lunatic ! '

Must,' answered Charley in a low voice ;
it's our only chance. We couldn't live in such
a sea as there'll be in another hour. As it is, I
think we shall just manage it, because the surf
can't be really very bad yet ; but we shall get
a ducking, of course. Don't make a row, there's
a good chap ; I don't want to frighten Clare.
You must look after her. You know what todo,
and I've seen you swim.'

Adrian was a good swimmer, certainly,
but it seemed doubtful, whether that accomplishment
would stand him in much stead now.
He moved forward a little and looked towards
the shore, which they were rapidly approaching,
and where he could make out the figures of
three men, who were waving their arms and
apparently shouting directions. Neither their
voices nor their gesticulations, however, were
intelligible ; and if they had been, it would
probably have been too late to profit by them.

When Adrian heard the thunder of the breakers
and saw the long stretch of white foam ahead,
his heart stood still. But there was no use in
talking about it. He hooked his arm firmly
into Clare's and led her to the extremity of the
bows.

Listen, Clare,' he said ; ' the moment you
feel the boat touch you must jump — don't fall
if you can help it — and run for your life. I
shall keep tight hold of you. Do you understand?'


She nodded ; and Adrian noted with a slight
glow of pride that she neither trembled nor
wasted her breath in needless words. If they
were to be drowned, it would be no fault of
hers, at all events.

They were in the broken water now ; the
bewildering whiteness of the surf was all around
them ; the boat was lifted high, and Adrian
stiffened his muscles for a spring. But by bad
steering they missed the crest of the wave

Q 2

which should have carried them on ; it raced
past them ; the boat seemed to halt and
stagger ; and Adrian, knowing what must
come, shouted, 'Now, Clare!' and jumped
over.

At the same instant he Alas knocked clean
off his legs, and with a roar of waters in his
ears and a confused sense of being swept into
eternity, darkness closed in upon him.

When he came to himself he was sitting
upon the sand, surrounded by a little group, one
member of which caught him by the arm as he
tried to stand, and staggered dizzily. ' You'd
a bit mazed yet, sir,' said this stalwart individual.
' Tenir the mast as knocked you silly ;
but 'tis only a bit of a bruise, and the young
lady, she ve got no hurt.'

It's all right, Adrian,' chimed in Charley,
whose dripping figure now came to the front.
*That last wave snapped the mast, and I
suppose it must have caught you on the back

of the head as it fell. Clare and I were rolled
up, none the worse, except that we had all the
breath knocked out of us.'

What has become of the boat ? ' asked
Adrian, still a little uncertain as to where he
was and what had happened.

Oh, the boat has gone to glory ; and I'm
bound to say that I rather think we should
have followed her if it hadn't been for our
good friends here.'

Seemeth as us was sent down providential,'
remarked the first speaker. ' If you'd ha' done
as we felled 'ee, sir, and bore away under the
land yonder, we might ha' saved the boat ; but
'tis sinful to complain when no lives is lost.'

This was quite the view taken by the late
occupants of the ' Midget,' who were soon able
to walk to a neighbouring farmhouse, where a
change of clothing was found for them. Clare
was a good deal bruised and shaken ; but she
did not think it worth while to mention this in

answer to Adrian's inquiries, and assured him
that a wetting was no new experience to her.
He attributed her gravity and her brief replies
to the natural effect of the shock which she
had received, not knowing what a terrible
moment she had passed through when she had
seen her husband stretched, apparently lifeless,
upon the shore.

She and he were left alone together before
long, for Charley had set off to Newbury to
procure a conveyance ; and as they sat in the
little parlour of the farmhouse, before the fire
which had been kindled for them, it seemed
as if now or never must be the time for them to
compose their differences. Yet neither of them
spoke for five minutes or so, and when Adrian
at last opened his lips it was only to observe, —

That was a near thing, Clare.'

Oh, yes ! ' she answered, catching her
breath. And then, with a sort of sob, 'I
thought you were dead ! '

'Did you? And I let you go, after all.
What should I have done if you had been
drowned, and I had been washed up alive !
Ill tell you what, Clare: I'm going to give
those three fellows ten pounds apiece. The
price of a magazine article — hem ! Well,
perhaps we ought to double it ; but I am a
poor man. What do you think ? Are we
worth more than fifteen pounds each ? '

I don't knows answered Clare, looking at
the fire ; ' I don't think I'm worth much.'
She rose and crossed to her husband's chair,
saying timidly, ' Adrian, were you much hurt?'
She passed her hand over the back of his head,
where indeed there was a very respectable
bump. ' Oh, you poor boy ! ' she exclaimed,
it must pain you dreadfully ! May I bathe
it?'

Adrian burst out laughing, with tears in his
eyes, and caught her by both hands. ' May
you ? No, you may not ; because it doesn't

want bathing. Oh, Clare, don't you think weare
a couple of fools ? '

Clare dropped upon her knees beside him,
and buried her face on his shoulder. ' I have
been so miserable ! ' she murmured brokenly.
I want to make friends again. Will you ? '

It is to be supposed that Adrian's answer must
have been of a satisfactory nature ; for when
Charley returned, full of apologies for having
been absent such an unconscionable time, he
was assured, in ^ the face of patent facts, by
those whom he had kept waiting, that he had
not been away an hour.

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE CLOUDS AFTER THE RAIN.

Of all ways of ending a quarrel, the best,
probably, is to slake hands and say no more
about it. The great majority of quarrels arise
from faults on both sides ; so that any re-discussion
of their original cause is but too apt to
bring about a renewal of the hostilities which
it is intended to close. Nevertheless, there are
exceptions to this general rule, and it was
certainly a little unfortunate that Clare and
Adrian, in their eagerness to become reconciled,
should have carefully shunned all reference to the
lady whose vagaries had so nearly created a lasting
breach between them. A few direct questions
and honest answers would have set Clare's

mind at rest ; but neither question nor answer
passed, and so what might have been a solid
peace remained little more than a truce, to
which some trifle might at any moment put a
term.

And in a very short time the requisite trifle
was forthcoming. Entering the breakfast-room
rather late one morning, Adrian saw, among the
letters beside his plate, one addressed in Lady
St. Austell's bold, flowing hand, and had an
intuitive conviction that Clare had seen it too.
Now, in the early days of their married life the
young couple had thoughtlessly agreed to make
their' letters common property, and although
the custom had lately fallen into abeyance, it
had never been formally abrogated. Thus,
after breakfast, Clare asked in a matter-of-course
way to be shown Adrian's batch of
correspondence, which it was out of the question
that she should see in its entirety ; for one
of the letters ran as follows :

Dear Mr. Yidal, — I have been thinking a
great deal about you during the last few days,
and I have always noticed that when I take
these fits of thinking about my friends, they are
in need of help. Of course you will not admit
that you are bored to death at Polruth,but I feel
convinced that you are bored ; so I write to say
that we have room for you here whenever you
can summon up courage to defy your jailers
and escape over the border. You might even
bring the head-jailer with you if you liked ;
only then you would have to telegraph to me,
so that I might send her an invitation in due
form. But I really think you had better give
yourself a holiday, and come alone. We have
a very cheery house-party, and I dare say you
have heard that the birds are unusually wild
this year. Or is it the reverse that they ought
to be ? I know nothing about sporting matters ;
but I do know that Lord St. Austell has been

in a good humour for three days running, which
shows that all must be well.

I wonder whether you caught it that afternoon
when Mrs. Yidal came in so unexpectedly
and found you in Grosvenor Square ? / did.
First I was attacked by Lord St. Austell, who
accused me of having made myself " conspicuous
" with a certain person who shall be
nameless, and showed me a disgraceful paragraph
in the " Anglo-saxon," about which I shall
have a word or two to say to you when we
meet. Then Mr. Heriot took up his parable,
and preached me such a sermon as I never
listened to in my life before. Between ourselves,
I suspect him of being a little sweet on the
head-jailer ; for he waxed quite eloquent about
her, and was in a terrible state of fuss because
he thought I wanted to rob her of her captive.
I don't want to rob anybody ; but I do think
that, considering how good your conduct is, you
might occasionally be let out on a ticket-leave.

I have several things to talk to you
about ; so please make up your mind to join
us, and believe me, yours always,

'Julia St. Austell.'

Evidently, such a missive as this could not
be delivered into the hands of the person
pleasantly described as the head-jailer. Adrian
might mutter, ' Confound the woman ! ' and
declare to himself that he had never given her
any excuse for being so impertinent ; but he
well knew that to ask Clare to believe that
statement in the presence of documentary
evidence to the contrary, would be asking fora
good deal more than he was likely to get.
When, therefore, she made the request abovementioned,
he simply handed her over a few
lines from Pilkington upon matters of business,
a couple of bills, a very lengthy communication
from an obsequious wine merchant, and an
offer on the part of a German lottery-agent to

secure him, in return for one sovereign, a good
chance of winning ' the large sum of 30,000/.
sterling.'

And the other ? ' said Clare quietly.

Oh, the other was from Lady St. Austell,
asking me — at least, asking us — to go and stay
with them in Scotland. Of course we shan't

go.

Clare raised her eyebrows. ' Why did she

write to you instead of to me, I wonder ? '

Well, she wanted to know if there was a

chance of your accepting the invitation.'

Then followed the inevitable question, 'May

I see what she says ? ' and the evasive answer,

which was perhaps equally inevitable. In a

very short space of time this hapless couple

were as much at cross-purposes as if they had

never been half drowned at Poddly Joke at

all. Adrian felt that Fate was treating him

with unmerited harshness. He was forced to

acknowledge that Clare was not wholly unreasonable

this time ; and yet he could neither do
what she wanted him to do, nor give any
plausible reason for refusing. ' Surely,' he exclaimed,
after a somewhat painful interchange
of words, which there is no need to record,
we are not going to be so silly as to quarrel
again about this woman ! '

I don't mean to quarrel any more, Adrian,'
answered Clare sadly ; ' quarrelling will never
make things any better. But it is no fault of
mine if you have to choose between me and
Lady St. Austell.'

What do you mean ? ' he asked anxiously.
Oh, nothing that need alarm you,' she
replied, with a touch of bitterness. ' I shall
not speak to any one else about the matter, and
there will be no scandal. Only, if you claim
liberty, I claim it too, and we must lead
separate lives after this, though we may remain
under the same roof. Perhaps, after all, that
is what you will think the most sensible plan.'

Clare,' said Adrian, ' I give you my
honour as a gentleman that I care no more
for Lady St. Austell than for — for old Mrs.
Treweeke. Surely you must believe me.'

Yes,' she answered calmly, ' I believe
you, since you tell me that it is so. But that
is not enough. I don't understand your distinctions
; I don't know where you consider
that flirtation ends and love begins ; and I think
I have a right to say that you must belong tome
altogether or not at all. If you care enough
for me to accept that bargain, and if you care
for Lady St. Austell as little as you say, you
will show me her letter.'

The demand was, no doubt, justifiable,
although it might have been less peremptorily
put. Adrian met it by producing Lady St.
Austell's letter, which he tore into fragments
and scattered to the four winds of Heaven. ' I
am not prepared to demonstrate my innocence
by unquestionable proofs at every step,' he

remarked. 'You tell me in one breath that
you believe what I say, and that I must do so-and-so
before you will be convinced that I am
speaking the truth.'

Clare flushed a little when she saw the
scraps of passer fluttering away in the breeze ;
but she answered tranquilly enough, ' That
was not what I said ; but it doesn't much
signify. You will be able to write and receive
what letters you please in future, for I shall
never ask to see them again.' And, so saying,
she left him.

There was one letter which it was incumbent
upon Adrian to write that day, and he
was at first inclined to make it a very rude one.
When, however, he remembered that his correspondent
would infallibly detect the cause
of his ill-humour, and be amused by it, he
changed his mind, and despatched a short note
thanking Lady St. Austell for her kind invitation,
which he regretted that he was not able

VOL. II. B

to accept, and merely remarking casually, ' I
must have given you some false impression as to
my being bored at Polruth. If I am a prisoner
here, I am a very willing one.' He added a
few commonplaces, by way of showing that he
was too indifferent to Lady St. Austell's insinuations
to be offended by them, and flattered
himself that he had conveyed a snub as
delicately and effectually as the case permitted.
Snubbing a woman who has involved you
in domestic broils is not, however, of much
more practical use than killing a wasp after it
has stung you, and Adrian knew that his wife
would not have been contented with the
delicacy of this snub, even if she had been
informed of it. Her position was a perfectly
intelligible one. He had only to promise that
he would drop Lady St. Austell's acquaintance,
and all past transgressions should be blotted
out. But this was what he did not choose todo.
He thought that he understood the nature

of women, and that concessions seldom move
them towards generosity. Supposing that he
made the renunciation demanded of him now,
other renunciations would assuredly be demanded
of him before long, and the end of it
would be that his wife would become what
Lady St. Austell had called her, his jailer — a
very kind jailer, no doubt, still a jailer. He
judged it best, therefore, to submit to present
discomfort, and trusted vaguely that in process
of time Clare would ' come round.'

Of course she did nothing of the kind ;
of course, every day that Adrian remained
estranged from her, and was apparently resigned
to the estrangement, lessened the probability of
her doing so ; of course, also, the said estrangement
was more easily consented to than concealed.
It ended by becoming apparent even
to Mrs. Irvine ; and she, good soul, was far
from sharing Heriot's conviction of the futility

bof

interference. She attacked both the young
people in turn with inquiries as to what was the
matter, would not take ' Nothing ' for an answer,
and gave them and herself a world of
bother before it dawned upon her that she had
much better hold her tongue.

All this rendered residence at Cardrew far
from pleasant to Adrian, who, nevertheless, did
not suffer as much as Clare. He partly forgot
the contrariness of things when he was at work,
and justified Mr. Wilbraham's appreciation of
the artistic temperament by putting a good deal
of his sorrowful experience into picturesque
language for the subsequent delectation of the
public. And then, in the month of September,
he obtained what he could not but regard as a
happy release. Under other circumstances he
would have unhesitatingly declined an invitation
to go to some friends in Warwickshire fora
few days' shooting, but now he jumped at it ;
and he made himself so agreeable to his entertainers,

that when the few days were up he
was entreated to remain a little longer ; after
which he was asked to go on to another house,
and thence to a third ; so that the few days
lengthened themselves out into six weeks, and
it seemed hardly worth while to return to
Cornwall at all.

Clare joked him in London early in
November. He had some faint hope that by
this time she might have ' come round,' but was
speedily undeceived. She had looked the situation
in the face, had determined ujoon her line of
action, and had no thought of swerving from it.
Since it was her destiny to be such a wife as
Adrian had described in print — such a wife as,
by all accounts, many women were condemned
to be in these evil days — she would accept what
she could not avoid without the scandal of an
open separation. Henceforth she would do as
others did, and ignore her husband's flirtations
if it pleased him to indulge in any. What she

would not submit to was the insult of a pretended
love.

She was not insulted in that way. Habit
heals most hurts, and Adrian was becoming
accustomed to the changed order of his life.
So long as there were no rows, domesticity was
at least endiu-able — especially when you didn't
have too much of it. Plenty of his friends of
both sexes had returned to London, and were
very glad to see him again. Many a pleasant
afternoon and evening did he spend among
them, and many a little dinner did he organise,
to be followed by an adjournment to one of
the theatres. Clare entertained them when he
chose to invite them to his house, but seldom
accompanied him when he went to theirs.
She found plays tedious, she said, and he took
her at her word. She had been of a different
opinion once ; but then that was a whole year

He was walking down Bond Street one

afternoon when he was stopped by a footman,
who muttered something ; and looking in the
direction from which the man had come, he
was aware of a certain smart victoria which
he had not expected to see in London at that
season of the year. The lady who was seated
in it, wrapped in sables, the value of which
would have kept a whole street-full of her
husband's tenantry from cold and hunger
through the winter months, held out a little
gloved hand to him, saying, ' Where are you
going this dismal afternoon ? Come home
with me, and I will give you a cup of tea.'

And so presently Adrian was in the
carriage, and progressing rapidly towards
Grosvenor Square.

Lady St. Austell confined her observations
to harmless generalities on the way ; but when
she and her guest were seated before the fire,
with the tea-table between them, she leant
forward and said gently, 'Why were you so

angry with me for asking you to come to us in
Scotland? An invitation isn't generally considered
an affront.'

Adrian sighed. He was not going to let
her know what good cause for anger she had
given him ; but after a moment he answered,
You put your invitation in a way that would
have affronted a good many people.'

Lady St. Austell laughed a little. ' You
didn't like my taking it for granted that you
must be bored at Polruth. Well, I apologise.
You were not bored — you couldn't be bored.
And have you remained on at Polruth ever
since I heard from you ? '

'Not quite ever since,' answered Adrian.
I went away towards the end of the time to
get a little shooting, and then I stayed about
with different friends for a few weeks.'

By yourself ? '

'My wife was not with me. Of course,

she wanted to see as much of her own family
as she could.'

Very natural and creditable on her part.
What sort of houses have you been staying in? —
and whom did you meet ? Any pretty people ? '

Pretty ? Well, yes, I suppose some of
them were rather pretty. I really didn't
notice particularly.'

Oh, nonsense ! Don't tell me that Mrs.
Vidal hasn't catechised you about them. I am
sure she knows exactly how many of them
were pretty, and exactly how pretty the pretty
ones were.'

Indeed she doesn't. She has never asked
me a single question about them.'

Eeally ! Well, I am more inquisitive.
Tell me who they all were, if you please.'

Adrian smiled and composed with her request,
running over a string of names, which
she interrupted by an impatient gesture.

That will do : I never heard of any of
them m my life. Now I am going to ask you
a question which will make you cross. No :
on second thoughts, I won't ask the question,
because you have unintentionally answered it
already. I will make an assertion instead.
You and Mrs. Yidal have been having a slight
difference of opinion. Will you think me very
horrid if I say that I am not sorry for it ? I
knew that it must come some day, and I am
rejoiced that you have had the courage to
stand up for yourself. Since you were going
to pay visits, you might have come to me ;
but never mind that. The great thing is
that you have declared your independence.
I have no doubt that Mrs. Vidal has many
charming qualities, and I have always been
the first to admit that she has a charming face ;
but '

If it's quite the same thing to you,' broke
in Adrian, ' I'd rather not discuss her. Won't

you tell me how you have been spending the
autumn, and what brings you to London ? '

That won't take long. After we left
Scotland, we were in Hertfordshire for a time,
and then we went to Newmarket for the
Cambridgeshire. I suppose you know that
Lord St. Austell's horse won.'

Yes, I saw it in the papers,' answered
Adrian. ' I hope he made a pot of money.'

I can't say ; but I should think he did,
for he was amiability itself for some days after
the race. Now he has departed for Paris with
some other young fellows of his own standing,
and I believe he talks of going on to Monaco.
I only hope he will, because then I shall not
be wanted to entertain people before Christmas ;
and I do so hate the country at this time of
year ! If I can manage it, I shall stay where
I am until he comes back to England. And
perhaps,' she added, with a smile, ' you will
sometimes look in upon me in my loneliness.'

He said he would. Lady St. Austell had
a way of talking to him which put him upon
good terms with himself, and he had no longer
any reason for wishing to avoid her.

Why won't you treat me like a friend .? '
she asked softly, holding his hand while she
bade him good-bye. ' You might do worse
than tell me your troubles. I have had a great
deal of experience, and, above all, I am a
woman. I think I could give you some good
advice, if you would let me.'

The upshot of this interview was that it was
succeeded by several others, in the course of
which Adrian was persuaded to open his heart
in some degree to this friendly sympathiser.
He only half trusted her ; but a confidant of
any kind was a boon to him, and Lady St.
Austell showed a great power of participation
in his feelings. As for advice, it must be confessed
that she had not much of that to offer.
On the other hand, she had plenty of compass

on at his service. Of the institution of marriage
she spoke with pathetic eloquence. A
careless observer might have thought that Lady
St. Austell's bonds weighed lightly upon her ;
but such, it appeared, was not the case. Ah,
no ! She, like others, knew what it was to
marry in haste and repent at leisure. That
was why she was able to feel so deeply for
those who had made a similar mistake. To be
linked to an uncongenial fellow-captive, without
hope of escape, was bad enough; but how
much worse did it become when — as so often
happened — you met too late the one person
who could have made you happy, and whom
you, perhaps, might have made happy, had the
Fates been propitious ! There were tears — real
tears — in Lady St. Austell's eyes while she discoursed
thus.

Adrian was not much to blame if he understood
himself to be the person alluded to in
these plaintive murmuring, because that was

precisely what he was meant to understand ;
but he is as open to as much blame as the
reader may please to adjudge to him for finding
the discovery rather agreeable than otherwise.
He was not in the least in love with Lady St.
Austell ; but a little sentimentality was what
he had never yet been able to help enjoying,
and this woman was past mistress of the art
of flirtation. The truth — if Adrian had only
known it — was that she had taken his measure.
In the beginning of their acquaintance she had
been a little bit afraid of him. Her knowledge
of mankind had, up to that time, been
derived from observation of a class to which he
did not belong — a class composed of younger
sons, Guardsmen, budding politicians, and the
like — and she had not been sure whether the
author of ' Satiety ' might not be rather too
clear-sighted a person to be imposed upon by
the cajoleries that pleased those simple folk ;
but having now discovered that he was quite as

great a fool as the rest of them, she felt her feet
upon firm ground, and brought all her accustomed
arts to bear upon him. She had quite
discarded the flippant manner which characterised
her at ordinary times ; she had soft
modulations in her voice which were calculated
to reach the toughest heart ; and she always
took care to sit with her back to the liorht.

It may be hoped that the result of so much
painstaking endeavour proved satisfactory to
Lady St. Austell ; but whether it did or not,
there was one humble member of her household
to whom Mr. Yidal's frequent appearances
in Grosvenor Square were a source of pure
dehgiit. One evening, as Adrian was descending
the staircase, the baize door alluded to in a
former chapter was suddenly flung open, and
the figure of Susan Bowman, erect and silent,
like an avenging apparition, barred his passage.
He was not altogether taken by surprise, for he
had often thought that some such episode

would occur sooner or later ; and he was able
to say quite calmly and good-humouredly :

Well, Susan, how are you ? I am glad
to find that you have dropped into such a good
situation.'

This was rather a disappointment to Susan,
who had been at some little pains to contrive her
cows de theatre and who had expected that her
faithless lover would have turned pale and
stagger back in dismay. So she returned, with
considerable acrimony, ' Oh, you knew I was
here, did you? Some people have plenty of
cheek ! I suppose it never came into your
head that, living in this house and seeing
what goes on in it, I might have something
interesting to say to your wife about you and
her ladyship.'

Adrian immediately put his finger and
thumb into his waistcoat pocket ; and if he had
known how very near he was, for a moment, to
having his face slapped, he would probably

have thought twice before committing himself
to that suggestive action.

But Susan remembered that various domestics
were kicking in the hall below, and
put a curb upon the promptings of nature.
I want to speak to you,' she said rapidly and
in a low voice. ' Meet me tomorrow afternoon
by the Bound Pound in Kensington Gardens at
four o'clock sharp. Do you understand .^ '

Eeally, Susan '

Eeally, Mr. Yidal, you'll do as I tell you,
or you'll repent it. No ; I'm not to be bought
off this time. Keep your money in your pocket,
and don't be late tomorrow afternoon, unless
you want to drive me to do what you will be
sorry for.'

It seemed to Adrian that he had better
yield. Susan was rather alarming with her
vague menaces ; it was wiser to keep friends
with her than quarrel with her ; and at four

VOL. II. s

o'clock on a winter's afternoon it is so dark
that one may meet anybody in Kensington
Gardens without appreciable risk. So he
said, ' Very well, then,' and went his way
pensively.

CHAPTEE Xxi,

DE Went Upon MARRIAGE.

One of the first visitors whom Clare received
after her return home was Mr. De Wynt ; and
it was with sincere regret that she informed
him that Miss Yidal would not be in London
that autumn. ' I asked her to come to us, and
at first she seemed quite inclined to accept ;
but now it appears that she has changed her
mind, and I am afraid we shan't see her again
before the spring.'

De Wynt shook his head ruefully. ' I've
heard from her too,' he remarked. ' Of
course you've seen her book, " The Islands
of the Blest." Awfully clever ; don't you
think so ? '

s 2

Well, I don't know,' said Clare, who was
not pleased with her sister-in-law. ' Travels
don't interest me much, as a rule. Next year,
I suppose, we shall have a companion volume,
with a representation on the cover of Georgina
driving a team of reindeer, and an aurora
borealis in the background. Did she tell you
that she proposes to spend this winter in driving
through the north of Norway and Sweden ? '

Yes ; she mentioned it. I knew she would
be off somewhere. I told you so, if you remember.'


How ridiculous it is of her ! ' exclaimed
Clare impatiently.

Oh, I shouldn't call it ridiculous. I think
it's very plucky of her, you know. From a
selfish point of view, I should be very glad if
she would give up globe-trotting ; but then it
wouldn't do to tell her so. It's no business of
mine, you see.'

No business of yours, Mr. De Wynt ? '

The little man laughed. ' Well, ]sirs. Vidal,
I think you know what my hopes — if I may
venture to call them hopes — are. I haven't
made much secret of them, anyhow. You
t'jnk me faint-hearted ; but you make a mistake.
I'm nothing of the kind, and I would
ask her to be my wife tomorrow if I didn't
know that it would be worse than useless. I've
often thought over what you said about my
asserting myself : but I am convinced that the
time hasn't come for me to do that with any
chance of success.'

It seems to me that you have just as good
a chance now as you will have next year ;
and Georgina herself once told me that she
could never respect a man who didn't make
her obey him,' said Clare, diplomatically suppressing
a portion of the statement referred
to.

Ah, that's because she takes an altogether
wrong view of marriage. According to my

notion, there ought not to be any question of
commanding or obeying on either side.'

'The marriage service observed Clare,
makes a woman promise to love, honour, and
obey her husband.'

Yes ; but she can't love him if he beats
her, and she can't honour him if he gets drunk
every night ; and as a good many husbands do
both, the marriage service has no business to
make people promise what they may find it
impossible to perform. As to Miss Vidal, my
idea is that she ought to be allowed plenty of
rope. In process of time she is sure to get
tired of a wandering life ; and then, don't you
see, she may very likely say to herself, " I have
had about enough of this ; and there's De Wynt
ready and waiting. He isn't much to look at,
and he isn't overburdened with brains, but he's
a good-natured little beggar, and he has been
constant for a fairish number of years." At
least, that's what I hope for.'

You seem to have thought it all out in a
very dispassionate and unromantic way,' Clare
remarked.

Well, yes ; I'm afraid I am rather unromantic
; but then I flatter myself that I have
a good deal of what you might call " staying
power " in me, and that always tells in the long
run. It's a family gift. My old uncle has it
in a remarkable degree.'

Has your uncle grown old while waiting
for somebody to marry him ? ' asked Clare.

Oh no ; it takes another form with him —
the form of living. He is nearer eighty than
seventy now, but he can do a day's shooting as
well as anybody, and he told me last month,
when I was down at his place, that I needn't
hope to succeed him for another twenty years.
I think that was a little bit of swagger, though,
put on to annoy me. Not that I want to hurry
him ; only, of course, I shall be a good deal
better off when he goes aloft ; and a man with

a decent property does feel rather more confidence
in making an offer of marriage than a
Government clerk. But I mustn't bore you anymore,
Mrs. Yidal ; it's very good of you to have
listened to me so long.'

Clare, however, assured him that he did not
bore her at all, and that she was greatly interested
in his prospects. ' I haven't many things
to interest me nowadays — I mean, in London '
she added, with a sigh.

So Mr. De Wynt, whose admiration for
Mrs. Vidal was second only to the admiration
which he felt for her sister-in-law, grew to be
as steady a frequenter of the house in Alexandra
Gardens as he had been earlier in the year.
He soon discovered that things were not going
quite smoothly there, and, by dint of making
use of his eyes and ears, arrived at a tolerably
clear understanding of the facts ; after which it
became his chief object to divert Mrs. Vidal's
thoughts from her grievances. He was himself

a very simple, honest, and clean-living little
fellow ; but he had seen too much of the world
to be greatly scandalised or indignant at Yidal's
supposed infidelity. He only thought, as Lord
St. Austell had done, that the man had shocking
bad taste, and so dismissed him from his
mind. But that Mrs. Vidal should be made
unhappy gave him greater concern, and he immediately
set his brains to work to devise consolations
for her. His strategy was of a very
transparent kind ; but she lent herself to it,
accepting, not ungratefully, his well-meant
efforts to cheer her up.

There are some rather good pictures at the
French Artists this year, they say,' he remarked
one afternoon ; ' I wish you would take me to
see them, Mrs. Vidal. — And, Yidal, you'll come
too, won't you ? '

Adrian answered that he would with pleasure
; but when the next morning came he
told Clare that he was afraid he could hardly

manage it. ' You see, I have a lot of things
to do, and I can't well sacrifice a whole afternoon.
But I am sure De Wynt will be delighted
to look after you, and I'll join you at
the gallery if I can.'

Clare said ' Very well.' She never inquired
now how Adrian spent his time ; but he was
accustomed to speak of himself as being very
busy, and latterly he had taken to lunching at
his club, so that she did not often see him
between the hours of breakfast and dinner.
She supposed that he was a good deal at the
office of the ' Anglo-saxon,' and had hardly expected
that he would be able, as he said, to
sacrifice a whole afternoon ' to her.

Nor was she much surprised when he failed
to keep his appointment at the picture-gallery.
She and De Wynt walked conscientiously
round, with their catalogues in their hands,
examining the works of art, in which, perhaps,
neither of them felt any absorbing interest, and

after having accomplished this duty, sat down
and waited until it became evident that waiting
any longer would be useless. Then Clare said
that she would be glad of a little exercise, and
that if Mr. De Wynt wouldn't mind walking as
far as Park Lane with her, she would take a
hansom for the rest of the way. It was no
great favour to ask ; for she knew that De
Wynt never wearied of company in which he
could freely ventilate his dreams of future bliss ;
and, indeed, he embarked upon the familiar
theme as soon as they were out in the street.

'I wish we had ]bliss Vidal with us,' he
began. ' She is a first-rate judge of a picture,
and she would have told us what to admire, and
why to admire it. You can always depend
upon her, don't you know. If she begins to
talk about a subject, you may be sure she understands
it ; and if she doesn't know anything
about it, she'll say so like a shot. I think I
never met any one so perfectly honest as she is.'

Clare made the perfunctory murmur of
approbation which she knew was expected of
her. She had heard this eulogium pronounced
a dozen or so of times already, and one can't
always work one's self up to enthusiasm over
the virtues of one's friends.

And genuine honesty isn't such a common
thing, you know,' De Wynt went on. ' Look
at me, for instance. I don't think I am more
of an impostor than my neighbours, but I
shouldn't like to admit that I was utterly
ignorant about art ; though if I know a Messenger
from a Bouguereau, it's about as much as
I do. A humble individual like myself can't
afford such luxuries as absolute candour. In
fact, I don't see how one could get on in society
at all without being rather a humbug in someways.'


That is just what I think,' agreed Clare,
with more animation ; ' and that is why I don't
like society.'

Yes ; but if one does like society — as I
confess that I do — and if one wants to be
liked by society in return, it isn't possible to be
quite so outspoken as Miss Vidal. I admire
her honesty immensely ; but naturally it must
get her into trouble every now and then.'

You will have to cure her of it,' remarked
Clare, with a smile.

Oh no,' answered De Wynt, quite
seriously ; ' I should never attempt that. If I
ever have the good luck to be her husband,
I know very well that she will cause me some
moments of intense anguish by telling my
friends plainly what she thinks of them, and
so on ; but that is not the sort of thing that
I should ask her to give up. One mustn't
try to alter people's natures. My notion of
marriage, as I was saying to you the other day,
is that there ought to be a good deal of give
and take about it. It isn't fair that one of two
people should be always dictating to the other ;

and I am persuaded that the real reason why
so many couples who should be the best of
friends don't get on is that they won't agree to
differ upon certain points.'

'You allow that each side has a right to
make conditions, though.'

Certainly ; only they should be as few as
possible, and they should be made beforehand.
And, do you know, ]airs. Vidal, I think that,
even if the conditions were not always observed
very strictly, it would be just as well to take
no notice. If people really care for each other,
they can afford to overlook occasional breaches
of contract, don't you think so .^ Anyhow, it's
better to do that than to be at loggerheads.
Now I know a man — as good a fellow as ever
stepped, and his wife is charming in every way ;
only, unfortunately, they don't quite hit it off,
so that they are anything but happy together.
And I believe it is all because he did something,
that offended her long ago. Perhaps he was

rather too attentive to another woman, or it
may have gone beyond a little attention — I
don't know. At all events, he would be only
too thankful to make friends again ; and so,
I fancy, would she. But lie chooses to stand
upon her dignity ; and so there it is.'

Clare had no difficulty in guessing to whom
these observations were intended to apply ; but
she was not offended ; indeed, it was hardly
possible to be offended with so ingenuous a
moralist. ' I have no doubt,' said she, ' that
nine men out of ten would agree with you as
to what the injured person's conduct ought to
be in that particular case ; but supposing that
it had been the lady who had received a little
attention — or something that had gone beyond
a little attention — from another man ? '

'Ah, that's completing the question unnecessarily.
All I meant to say was that it is
wisest to shut your eyes to the defects of those
whom you love and who love you, and when

you can't do that any longer — well, to forgive
them.'

And how many times is one to forgive ? '
Seventy times seven, Mrs. Yidal,' answered
the little man stoutly. But the moderation
of his nature compelled him to add, under his
breath, ' Though I must say that's rather a
large order. Twelves in four hundred and
ninety — hem ! once a month for upwards of
forty years. No ; I should hope one wouldn't
be required to forgive upon such a very
extensive scale as that.'

But Clare did not notice this muttered recantation.
Her companion's reply had taken
her somewhat aback, and had caused her to
ask herself whether, after all, she was justified
in insisting upon what she still considered to
be her right. And did it matter very much
whether she was justified or not ? Secretly,
she had hoped all along that Adrian would
give in, just as he had hoped that she would

do so ; and it had not been without dismay-that
she had observed how perfectly well able
he was to enjoy life without giving in. Almost
she felt inclined to withdraw what she had
said at Cardrew, to be reconciled with her
husband, and to throw herself upon his generosity,
which surely would not fail her.

Thus, revolving many thoughts in her mind,
she walked on ; while De Wynt, who had resumed
his discourse, held forth to inattentive
ears.

VOL. !I.

CHAPTER XXVI.

PRESUMPTIVE EVIDENCE.

It is obvious that the most direct route from
the Gallery of French Artists to the cab-stand
near Apsley House is via Pall Mall, Waterloo
Place, and Piccadilly ; but when people are
deep in an interesting conversation they are
apt to follow their noses, and it must be presumed
that De Wynt's nose, moving in sympathy
with his mind, had led him to approach
the desired end by a circuitous path. From
the starting-point of Georgina's idiosyncrasies
he had to make his way round through general
reflections upon the philosophy of marriage
to the particular instance of the lady who stood
upon her dignity, and thence to the bearing of

this sad case upon that of j\ir. and Mrs. Vidal ;
and so, being absorbed in the working out of
his mental proposition, he crossed Regent Circus,
headed up the Quadrant, involved himself \n
intricacies in the neighbourhood of Vigo Street,
and did not pick himself up, so so speak, until
he was on the other side of Bond Street, by
which time he had propounded the startling
theory of the four hundred and ninety pardons
above mentioned, and was able to think of
shaping a straight course for home.

Thus it was that Clare awoke from the
dreams engendered by her relenting mood to
find herself at the corner of Grosvenor Square,
and within sight of a mansion which she had
little reason to love. She glanced at it, as she
might have glanced at the slough of a serpent,
little imagining that it Alas no longer untenanted
; and as she looked, the doors were
flung back, and somebody, running down the

T 2

steps, walked swiftly away westwards, his umbrella
under his arm, and his head bent, as
though in thought. It was Adrian, who had
just escaped from Miss Susan Bowman, and
who assuredly would not have been congratulating
himself upon that had he known what a
singularly inopportune moment he had chosen
for making his exit. But, happily for his peace
of mind, he did not look over his shoulder ashe
hurried away; and the shades of evening
soon hid him from the gaze of two astonished
pedestrians who were following him at a respectful
distance. Both of them had recognised
him, but neither thought it advisable to mention
the fact. De Wynt, feeling that the good
effect of his homily must be neutralised by this
unexpected apparition, stopped short in the
middle of a sentence ; and Clare, after walking
some little distance without speaking, said,
somewhat constrainedly, ' I must not take you
any further, Mr. De Wynt. If you will stop a

hansom for me, I think I will say good-bye
now.'

The well-balanced mind is, of course, no
more affected by knowledge which is conveyed
to it through the medium of sight than by such
as reaches it through hearing ; but a well-balanced
mind is not a very common possession,
and many people who can read a minute
account of some hideous railway accident without
the smallest discomfort, turn sick if they
happen to see a single individual break his leg.
Clare, for her part, found that it was one thing
to accept her husband's weakness for flirtation
as an abstract fact, and quite another to catch
him in flagrante delicto ; and as the hansom
bore her homewards her thoughts about him
were very bitter. Forgive ? — well, yes ; she
could forgive perhaps ; but she certainly could
not tell him so ; she could not consent to share
his affections with Lady St. Austell. There
was no doubt in her mind now — or at all

events only a remnant of doubt, which she
refused to recognise — that his relations with
that wicked woman had, as De Wynt would
have phrased it, ' gone beyond a little attention.'
What was Lady St. Austell doing in
London in November? and why had Adrian
concealed the fact that she was there ? Why
had he lied, saying that he would go to the
picture-gallery that afternoon, when he never
could have intended to do anything of the
kind? If this were not strong presumptive
evidence of guilt, what could be ? Poor Clare
felt a wild longing to escape from the choking
atmosphere of deceit by which she was surrounded,
to leave the man who had betrayed
her, and to hide herself somewhere where he
should never be able to find her again. She
thought it would be almost impossible to maintain
the demeanour of cold politeness which
she had kept up so long, now that she knew
what it was that caused Adrian to leave home

early in the morning and remain away until
night. If her baby had lived it would have
been different. Then she would have borne
everything for the child's sake : but for whose
sake was she to submit to neglect and insult
now ?

But this despairing phase of feeling passed
away. In spite of all her indignation, she
knew that Adrian had as yet given her no
ostensible excuse for refusing to live with him
any longer ; and something — it may have been
the aforementioned remnant of doubt — enabled
her to enter the drawings-room before dinner
with a face only a little graver and paler than
usual.

Adrian was already dressed, and was standing
before the fire, reading the evening paper.
He wore the cheerful aspect of one who does
not know that he has been found out. ' I was
sorry I couldn't pick you up at the gallery this
afternoon,' he said, ' but I knew De Wynt

would look after join. It was all right, I suppose
? '

Perfectly right,' answered Clare, marvelling
at his duplicity ; ' I never expected you to
come

Well, I fully intended to do so ; but,
somehow, the time slipped away, and then it
was too late I hope you enjoyed it.'

Clare took up the newspaper which he had
laid down, and made no reply ; but this did not
arouse Adrian's suspicions. Of late it had become
a habit of hers to leave a good many of
his remarks unanswered. Presently he volunteered
the information that he had seen
Pilkington in the course of the afternoon, and
that Pilkington was in a great stCAV about the
'Anglo-saxon,' which was not fulfilling his expectations.


He says I'm the only man on his staff who
isn't perpetually getting him into hot water, and
that if the public won't understand the theory

of individual responsibility for signed articles he
shall throw the thing up.'

Clare only looked up from her paper for an
instant to say, ' Eeally ? '

It was rather irritating. Lady St. Austell,
to whom he had given the same intelligence an
hour or two before, had seen at once how important
it was, in the interest of contemporary
literature, that ]vir. Pilkington should be restrained
from carrying out his threat. But contemporary
literature seemed to have lost its
charms for Clare. Adrian doubted whether
she was even reading the serial story by him
which was then appearing in the ' Cosmopolitan
Magazine,' and she never asked any questions
about the novel which he had on hand.

Not much conversation passed between
them during' dinner. Bv an unlucky mischance,
the cook had upset the salt-cellar into the soup,
and a calamity of that kind is what no man,
however good-tempered, can allow to pass

without comment. Adrian did not behave
at all badly about it ; but he sent a sarcastic
message to the kitchen, and Clare showed by
her absolute silence that she took the rebuke as
addressed to herself. That, again, was rather
irritating. As soon as the melancholy repast
was over, Adrian said he had work to do, and
retired to his study ; while Clare, left alone in
the drawing-room, stitched mechanically at her
embroidery until it was time to go to bed.

Going to bed did not mean going to sleep.
She tossed and turned half the night through,
wondering how long this kind of life would
last — how long she would be able to endure it ;
and when at length she fell into a feverish doze,
she dreamt that she saw Adrian kneeling at
Lady St. Austell's feet, that Lord St. Austell,
surveying the couple through his eye-glass, was
laughing ecstatically, and that De Wynt was
saying to her, ' Very sorry for you, Mrs. Vidal ;

but you've brought it upon yourself, you know.
You ought to have taken my advice, and forgiven
him before it was too late.'

The consequence was that she had a splitting
headache in the morning, and felt justified
in sending a message downstairs to say that she
didn't want any breakfast, but would take a
cup of tea and some dry toast in her bedroom.
Upon the tray which was presently brought to
her lay a letter ; and no sooner had she seen
the handwriting than she recognised it as that of
the anonymous correspondent to whom she was
abbacy indebted for some of the most miserable
hours that she had ever spent. She tore open
the envelope with trembling fingers ; and this
was what her unknown informant had to say to
her :

You have been warned once that your
husband is deceiving you ; but perhaps you
think his word is more to be trusted than a

stranger's. Well, seeing is believing. If you
want to know a little more about him, go to
the Found Pond in Kensington Gardens torn
sorrow afternoon, and walk among the trees
on the north side till you have seen enough to
satisfy you.'

CHAPTER XXVII.

Proof POSITIVE.

OxLT those who have been long under the
influence of a fixed idea can realise how difficult
it is to bid farewell to hope. Susan Bowman
ought, of course, to have perceived that
her one chance of inducing Adrian to marry
her was to strike while the iron was hot, and
get the ceremony concluded before his brief
passion burnt itself out. She had not done
this because, for one thing, she had not felt
perfectly sure of his pecuniary independence ;
and for another, because Heriot had succeeded
in convincing her that Mr. Vidal would never
be dragged to the altar so long as he had coattails
to be clung to and a friend to cling to

them. She had, however, the heroic quality
of not knowing when she was beaten. What
she had related of herself in St. James's Park
was true, ridiculous as it may appear to the
reader, and ridiculous as it did appear to the
man she had hoped to win. The obstacles in
the way of her marriage were, as had been
pointed out to her, inferiority of birth and
education. She set herself to work to render
these less conspicuous by cultivating refinement,
and reading such books as she could afibrd
to buy. She employed means which perhaps
would not have borne close scrutiny to obtain
a nursery governess's place ; she had vague
intentions of rising from that position to a
somewhat higher one, of presenting herself to
Adrian in the light of an equal, and calling
upon him to redeem his promises.

The announcement of his marriage in the
papers fell upon her, therefore, like a thunderbolt
out of a clear sky ; she felt that all her

labour had been in vain, that she had been
basely deceived, and that revenge became her
well. Her imagination not being a very fertile
one, the only vengeance that at first suggested
itself to her was of the dagger and bowl order ;
and this, in view of the existing state of the*
criminal law, seemed likely to prove as uncomfortable
for avenger as for victim. Besides,
she did not care about slaying Adrian. What
she wanted to do was to make him suffer ; and
we have seen how circumstances put it into her
power to play the part of Nemesis. Her
employer's garrulity kept her pretty well informed
as to Mr. Yidal's domestic affairs. She
knew that his wife was jealous ; she also knew
that some cause for jealousy existed ; though
precisely how much she had not been able to
determine by a careful study of the letters
which Lady St. Austell was too apt to leave
lying in accessible places. These, it is true,
were interesting and amusing reading : they

gave a clue to the tone of modern society, and
showed to what imprudent lengths young
gentlemen of the Johnny Spencer type will
commit themselves upon paper ; but unluckily
there was not one amongst them that bore Mr,
Vidal's signature ; and so Susan, who was
growing tired of watching the progress of
events, resolved to jog Time's elbow and create
a few little events on her own score.

It was with a countenance expressive of
joyous anticipation that she set forth to keep
her trust in Kensington Gardens ; and a cheering
reflection it was to her that in the course
of a few hours' time, if all went well, Adrian
would be in the midst of a domestic tempest
such as he had not yet been called upon to
encounter, that he would assuredly involve
himself in a network of falsehood, and that the
end of it would most likely be a temporary
separation and a more or less public scandal.

Adrian was approaching the same spot at a

more leisurely pace and with considerably less
exultation. He was not much afraid of anything
that Susan might say or do, and he had
put twenty pounds in his pocket, in case ten
should not be enough ; but these open-air
meetings were not to his taste, nor did he like
the prospect of the reproaches which he took it
for granted would be hurled at his head before
the inevitable demand for cash came. ' I'm
not going to do this kind of thing again,' he
muttered ; ' and so I shall tell her. After
all, what does it signify ? Let her come to
Alexandra Gardens and kick up a row, if she
chooses. I would have given a good deal to
prevent her from doing that a year ago ; but
now I suppose it would make very little difference.'


He sighed heavily, thinking that the world
was rapidly becoming a dismal place of abode,
and so reached his rendezvous in a frame of
mind half petulant, half dejected. Looking

VOL. II. u

warily about him in search of the person whom
he had come to meet, he was much astonished
to recognise in a solitary figure, separated from
him by the breadth of the pond, not Susan, but
Lady St. Austell; and his astonishment was
increased when her ladyship, after making
him a slight but unmistakable sign to follow
her, walked slowly away in the direction of the
trees. He caught her up presently, and, taking
ofi' his hat, said, ' Lady St. Austell, what has
brought you to this damp place ? '

The lady addressed lifted her veil and disclosed
the features of Miss Bowman.

It isn't Lady St. Austell,' she answered
meekly ; ' ii's only me.'

Oh, it's you ? ' said Adrian, with some
irritation. ' And why have you dressed yourself
up in your mistress's clothes, if I may
ask?*

Call me a thief,' returned Susan, in a low,
sad voice ; ' I shouldn't be in the least surprised

at your calling me anything. These are
my own clothes, though. Her ladyship was
kind enough to give them to me a few days
ago, and I put them on because — because I
thought perhaps you would like to see me
looking nice. But of course you don't care
about that now ; Ism only a troublesome
woman whom you'd be glad to be rid of. You
won't have long to wait, may be. I often think
it would be easy enough to walk down to the
river some night and have an end of it all."
And here Susan heaved a sigh so profound that
Lady St. Austell's dress, which, indeed, was
somewhat too tight for the comfort of either its
late or its present wearer, gave forth a warning
crack.

If there is one thing that I hate more than
being rude to a woman,' said Adrian, quite
unmoved by these pathetic words, 'it is beating
about the bush on a cold, raw afternoon,
instead of coming to the point. Therefore,

r 2

Susan, you must try to forgive me if I say that
we shall get on a great deal better without
humbug. Tell me what you want of me, and
you shall have it, so long as it is anything in
reason.'

Susan turned away her head, as if to conceal
her emotion. ' Do you think it is kind or
just to talk to me like that ? ' she asked, with a
little tremor in her voice. ' Have I ever done
you an injury? Some people might say that it
was you who had injured me.'

I am sorry if I spoke unkindly, Susan,'
answered Adrian, with a twinge of compunction
; ' but you must remember that you
addressed me in a very different tone yesterday,
and that I am only here because you
threatened me.'

Yes ; only because I threatened you.
You wouldn't have come if I had asked you
to do it as a favour to me. Well, well ! — times
are changed. Once you would have been

glad enough to meet me anywhere ; and now
you say, " Tell me what you want and let me
go." Suppose I wanted nothing, except to see
you and talk to you again, and to walk a little
way with you, as we used to walk when we
were younger and happier than we are now ? '

I'm afraid I can't suppose that,' replied
Adrian, who found this reproachful tenderness
even more disagreeable than the rating which
he had dreaded.

Can't you ? And yet that is all I ask of
you, Adrian. Come, let us walk up and down
under the trees for half an hour, and I will try
to forget how miserable you have made me.
You can spare me half an hour, perhaps. It isn't
a great deal of time to give to a girl whom
you once wished to spend your life with.'

She passed her arm through his, and led
him across the damp grass and the fallen
yellow leaves. The night was closing in fast,
and a chilly fog was rising, through which the

figures of the passers-by, hurrying along the
broad gravel path, loomed dun and ghost-like.

It looks dreary enough ; one wouldn't
think it had ever been spring-time here. But
the trees are happier than I am : they don't
remember what they have lost,' remarked the
melancholy Susan, unconsciously plagiarising
from a poet of whom she had never heard.

Adrian was thoroughly uncomfortable. He
didn't like being held by the arm, he didn't
like being called by his Christian name, and he
had a shrewd suspicion that he had not been
brought there for purely sentimental purposes.
Yet he hardly saw his way to escape. ' I
think,' said he at length, ' that, considering all
things, we might very well consent to let bygones
be bygones. The last time that I
walked with you, you gave me to understand
that all you wished for was to be revenged
upon me.'

Susan shook her head sadly. ' There's no

need for that now. I have been revenged
without doing anything to revenge myself. I
know you are no more happy than I am. You
regret your marriage now that it is too late.'

You are drawing upon your imagination,'
said Adrian coldly ; and he made an effort
to free his arm, which, however, Susan only
gripped more tightly.

No, indeed,' she replied. ' I know a great
many things — more than you suspect, perhaps.
I know, for instance, that you don't really care
for her ladyship, and that you only pretend to
flirt with her because you want to forget how
unhappy you are at home.'

'I don't wish to hurt your feelings,' returned
Adrian, 'but you must excuse my
telling you that speeches of that kind are very
offensive to me.'

The truth often is offensive,* remarked
Susan sententiously. ' Ah, Adrian ! ' she added,
with more warmth, clasping her hands round

his arm as she spoke, and looking up into his
face, ' the real truth is that you have never
loved either of these women as you loVed me
once.'

This was more than the unfortunate man
could stand. ' Eeally, Susan,' he said, shaking
her off somewhat roughly, ' you had better
understand the real truth yourself, once for all.
It is true that when I was a boy I did for a
short time fancy that I was in love with you ;
but the fancy didn't last long, and when once
it was gone, no power on earth could ever have
brought it back again. If you knew how the
recollection of that time humiliates and disgusts
me, you would not be so eager to remind
me of it.'

Susan had a gusty temper, which got the
upper hand of her sometimes when she herself
least expected it. It came whirling forth now,
and caused her to exclaim impetuously, ' You
brute ! — you miserable coward ! I'll make you

smart for those words before I've done with

YOU !

Adrian raised his eyebrows, and smiled
ever so slightly. It appeared to him that the
moment at which pecuniary compensation
might be tendered with propriety was not far
distant. ' And in what particular way, Susan,'
he asked, with the utmost suavity, ' do you
propose to make me smart ? '

It had been no part of Susan's plan to
quarrel with the sinner whom she desired to
reward according to his iniquities. 'You make
me say things that I don't want to say,' she
complained. ' Of course you know that I could
give you trouble if I liked. I could write a
few lines to your mother-in-law, Mrs. Irvine, or
I could have five minutes' conversation with
yoiu- wife, or I could drop a hint to his lordship,
who isn't a pleasant man when he's
angered, they say. But why shoidd I hurt
you ? Hurting you wouldn't make you love

me again, and neither hurting you nor leaving
you alone will get a kind word out of you, it
seems.'

'I don't want to seem unkind, Susan,'
answered Adrian ; ' but I must make you
understand, if I can, that it is a mistake for us
to exchange kind words — or any words. I
don't see what more I can say than that I am
heartily sorry for having wronged you in the
past — if I did ^^Tong you.'

'7/* you did!'

'Well, let us say that I did. But what
reparation can I make now? I know it
looks a little insulting to produce one's
purse ; still money is a useful thing, you
know ; and I am sure I shall be only too
glad '

His somewhat baiting speech was interrupted
in a singular manner. Without the slightest
warning, Susan abruptly flung her arms round his
neck and held up her face close to his. ' Kiss

me, Adrian,' she whispered. ' Kiss me once ! —
for the sake of old days ! '

What would the respected reader have done
in this trying situation P The humble writer is
bound to confess that he would have done what
Adrian did, and complied with the request
which of all conceivable requests is the least
easy to refuse. Adrian, then, bestowed a
modest salute upon Susan's forehead; having
done which, he endeavoured gently to disengage
himself, but without success. Susan, regardless
of the passers-by, clung to him with fond, inarticulate
murmurs, and he was beginning to
think that he would have done better to hold
her at arm's length, when he was released with
a suddenness which threw him off his balance,
and caused him to stagger backwards in an undignified
manner ; while Susan, turning away
from him, resumed the slow march which her
access of tenderness had arrested.

It has just been said that she was regardless

of the passers-by, and so the alarmed Adrian
imagined that she was ; but in reality that was
exactly what she was not. For five or ten
minutes she had been keeping an anxious eye
on the forms that flitted to and fro through the
mist a few yards away, and when among these
she discerned that of a tall, slight young lady
whose gait seemed less purpose-like than her
neighbours', she deemed it advisable to precipitate
a crisis to which she had been leading up
from the outset. There was thus a slight want
of artistic finish in the way that Susan carried
out her task, and this she regretted ; but when
it is remembered that she had to reach a given
point in her dialogue at a moment which could
not be accurately determined beforehand, it
will be allowed that she acquitted herself with
a fair measure of credit. She had manoeuvred
so as to place Adrian with his back to the
path ; looking over his shoulder, she saw the
lady for whose benefit she was acting start,

clasp her hands together nervously, stand still
for a moment, and then hurry away into the
gathering gloom ; after which, with a comfortable
conviction that Mrs. Yidal had seen
enough, she released Adrian in the manner
described.

For it has to be confessed that the spectator
of the scene was no other than Mrs. Yidal.
Many people — most people, perhaps — will be
disposed to think that it is a little beneath the
dignity of a gentleman or a lady to act upon
information conveyed anonymously ; if so,
Clare's own opinion coincided with that of the
majority. She made no excuses for herself,
and none shall be made for her. She went to
the Round Pond, as she had been told to do ;
she walked slowly along the path, looking
among the trees for the couple whom she
expected to discover, and she saw — as she fully
believed — Adrian fondly embracing Lady St.
Austell. The improbability of Lady St. Austell's

preferring to be embraced in the comparative
publicity of Kensington Gardens, when she had
a comfortable and private boudoir of her own
in which to indulge in such pleasures, did not
strike her ; nor would it have made very much
difference if it had. For there could be no
question as to the fact that Adrian was the
embracer whom his wife had seen ; and whether
the embraced person were A or B was perhaps
not a matter of primary importance. Clare, as
she hastened homewards, felt that the limits of
her endurance had been reached.

Meanwhile the culprit, little imagining into
what a pitfall he had stepped by yielding to
an amiable wish to make things pleasant, was.
rather surprised at the coolness which came
over Susan's manner after her late demonstration.


'Well,' she remarked, in a curt, businesslike
tone, ' I won't keep you away from home

any longer. Your wife may be wondering what
has become of you, you know. We may as
well say good-bye now.'

Good-bye, Susan,' said Adrian, not unkindly.
' I can see that you think me rather
hard-hearted ; but there's no help for that, I'm
afraid. You won't ask me to meet you again
in this way, will you ? '

Probably not,' answered Susan drily.

There really is no use in it, you see. And
now I hope you'll accept a small present — 1
thought it possible that you might want a little
help ; ' and he deprecatingly produced four five-pound
notes.

Sir,' said Susan, ' your generosity to me I
shall never forget. Hand over the money.'

He complied wonderingly. The woman's
changes of tone were so frequent and abrupt
that he began to think her intellect must be a
trifle deranged ; and she perceived his suspicions

with much amusement. Her natural histrionic
talent being but slight, she had had considerable
difficulty in playing her part, and the sense
that she was now free to indulge in any conduct
that might seem good to her filled her with
exultation.

Twenty pounds ! ' said she, examining the
notes. ' Were you really so much afraid of
me as that? Now, a common person like me
ought to consider herself rich with twenty
pounds in her pocket, oughtn't she ? '

I don't know,' answered Adrian, still somewhat
puzzled.

Oh yes ; it's wealth, I assure you. I have
seen the day when twenty pence would have
been welcome. With all this money, I can
afford to treat myself to a luxury ; and a luxury
I will have. What do you think I'm going todo
with your kind present ? '

I don't know,' said Adrian again.

'Why, I'm going to give the whole of it

away in charity ; I am indeed. I'm going to
give it to a deserving person. More than that,
I'm going to add to it the snm of eight pound
ten out of my own purse.'

She took her purse from her pocket as she
spoke, and counted out the amount mentioned,
which, together with the notes, she placed in
Adrian's hands. ' There ! ' said she, ' you're
the deserving person ; and oh, what a deserving
person you are, to be sure ! Don't thank me,
I beg ! It's a privilege to do anything for such
a kind friend as you have been to me.'

What on earth do you mean ? ' asked
Adrian.

Only that I like to pay my debts ; and I
have been owing you eight pound ten since the
beginning of the year. I don't know whether
we re quite quits yet ; but we re as near it as
we shall get, I expect. Good-bye to you ; and
before we part, let me tel you a secret. I'd

VOL. II. X

rather die of hunger in a ditch than spend a
sixpence of your money ! '

Susan's face as she uttered these last words
was not agreeable to look upon. She turned
on her heel without waiting for a rejoinder ;
and in truth Adrian had none ready.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

PRINTED BY

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street Square

LONDON

Fcp. Svo. Limp Cloth.

By the Sisters Bronze.
2s. 6d. each.

JANE EYRE. By Charlotte Bronze.

SHIRLEY. By Charlotte Bronze.

VILLETTE. By Charlotte Bronze.

THE TENANT OF Windfall HALL. By Anne Bronze.

WUTHERING HEIGHTS. By Emily Bronte. AGNES GREY. By Anne Bronte.

With Preface and Senior of the Sisters, by Charlotte Bronte.
THE PROFESSOR. By Charlotte Bronte. To which are added the Poems of

Charlotte, Emily, and Anne Bronte.

By Mrs. GASKELL.

2s, 6d. each.

WIVES AND DAUGHTERS. i MARY BARTON, and other Tales

NORTH AND SOUTH. RUTH, and other Tales.

SYLVIA'S LOVERS. LIZZIE LEIGH, and other Tales.

C RAN FORD, and other Tales. I LIFE OF CHARLOTTE Bronze.

By LEIGH HUNT.

2s. 6d. each.

IMAGINATION AND FANCY : or, Selections from the English Poets.

THE TOWN : Its Memorable Characters and Events. Illustrated.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF LEIGH HUNT.

MEN, WOMEN, AND BOOKS ; a Selection of Sketches, Essays, and Critical

Memoirs.
WIT AND HUMOUR: Selected from the English Poets.
A JAR OF HONEY FROM MOUNT HYBLA : or. Sweets from Sicily in Particular,

and Pastoral Poetry' in General.
TABLE TALK. To which are added IMAGINARY CONVERSATIONS OF

POPE AND SWIFT.

Uniform with the above 2s. 6d. each.

THE SMALL HOUSE AT Arlington. By Anthony Trollope.

THE Clavering. By Anthony Trollope.

Frame PARSONAGE. By Anthony Trollope.

ROMOLA. By George Eliot.

BELOW THE SURFACE. By Sir A. H. Elton, Bart-transformation.

By Nathaniel Hawthorne.

DEERBROOK. By Harriet Martineau.

HOUSEHOLD EDUCATION. By Harriet Martineau.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF LUTFULLAH.

LECTURES ON THE ENGLISH Humorist OF THE EIGHTEENTH

CENTURY. By W. M. Thackeray.
THE FOUR GEORGES. With Illustrations by the Author. By W. M. Thackeray.
PAUL THE POPE AND PAUL THE FRIAR. By T. A. Trollope.
THE Rose-garden. By the Author of 'Unawares.'
CHRONICLES OF DUSTYPORE. A Tale of Modem Anglo-Indian Society. By

the Author of ' Wheat and Tares.'
IN THE SILVER AGE. By Holme Lee.
CAPITA. By Mrs. Oliphant.
WITHIN THE PRECINCTS. By Mrs. Oliphant.

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

Pictorial Covers price Two Shillings each.

By \A^ILK1E COLLINS.

KO NAME. AFTER DARK. ARMADALE

*»* The above may also be kad in Limp Cloth, price 2S. 6d. each

By the Author of
john HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.'
ROMANTIC TALES. | DOMESTIC STORIES.

By HOLME LEE.

AGAINST WIND AND TIDE BASIL GODFREY'S CAPRICE.

w1™InD WOOF. COUNTRY STORIES.

Annie Harleigh's FORTUNES. KATHERINE'S TRIAL.

THE WORTLEBANK DIARY, I MR. Win YARD'S WARD.

THE BEAUTIFUL MISS BARRINGTON.

By Captain GRONOW.

RECOLLECTIONS AND ANECDOTES OF THE CAMP, THE COURT, AND

THE CLUBS.
ANECDOTES OF CELEBRITIES OF LONDON AND PARIS. To which are

added LAST RECOLLECTIONS OF THE CAMP, THE COURT, AND

THE CLUBS.

Uniform-with the above.

GRASP YOUR NETTLE. By E. Lynn Linton.

AGNES OF SORRENTO. By Mrs. H. B. Stowe.

TALES OF THE COLONIES; or, Adventures of an Emigrant. By C. Rowcroft.

Latina. By the Author of ' Dr. Antonio ' and ' Lorenzo Benoni.*

THE MOORS AND THE FENS. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

HESTER KIRTON. By Katharine S. Macquoid.

BY THE SEA. By Katharine S. Macquoid.

THE HOTEL DU PETIT ST. JEAN.

VERA. By the Author of ' The Hotel du Petit St. Jean.'

IN THAT STATE OF LIFE. By Hamilton Aide'.

MORALS AND MYSTERIES. By Hamilton Aide'.

MR. AND MRS. FAULCONBRIDGE. By Hamilton Aide.

SIX MONTHS HENCE. By the Author of ' Behind the Veil,' &c.

THE STORY OF THE PLEBISCITE. By MM. Erckmann-Chatrian.

THE CONSCRIPT and WATERLOO. By MM. Erckmann-Chatrian. In One
volume.

GABRIEL DENVER. By Oliver Maddox Brown.

TAKE CARE WHOM YOU TRUST. By Compton Reade.

PEARL AND EMERALD. By R. E. Francisco.

Seule. By the Author of 'The Hotel du Petit St. Jean.'

PENRUDDOCKE. By Hamilton Aide'.

A GARDEN OF WOMEN. By Sarah Tatler.

BRIGADIER FREDERIC. By MM. Erckmann-Chatrian.
*MOLLY Sawn. By the Author of ' Phyllis,' &c.

MATRIMONY. By W. E. Norris.
phyllis. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn,' &c.

MADEMOISELLE DE MERSAC. By W. E. Norris.
*MRS. GEOFFREY. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn.'

BEN Miller's WOOING. By Holme Lee.
*AIRY FAIRY LILIAN. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn.'

FOR PERCIVAL. By Margaret Veley.
«ROSSMOYNE. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn.'

MEHALAH. By the Author of ' John Herring.'
*DORIS. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn.'

JOHN HERRING. By the Author of ' Mehalah."

These Volumes can also be had in Limp Cloth, fcp. 8vo. 25. 6d. each.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

3 0112 052948574

dTir^^'^r^^^

Adrian

VlDA

i^^#5*l

mm

i»l«l

W. E. NORRIS

wmmmmm

LI B R.AR.Y

OF THL

UNIVERSITY

or Ill N015

THOMAS mim' Farmer.
Anger HALL.

I^t^

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/adrianvidal03norr

BY

W. E. XOEEIS

AUTHOR OF

XO XKW IHlNc;' ' MADEMulSKI.LE DK MEIISAC 'MATUIMUxy

Etc.

IN Three VOLUMES
VOL. 111.

London
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO Peace



[.4// rights reserved]

CONTENTS

THE THIRD A' L U M E.

Hatter! Park

XXVIII. Indiscretion . 1

XXIX. AN UNWELCOME GUEST . . . . 29

XXX. AN UNLUCKY DAY . . . . .37

XXXI. THE STING OF THE FCOLnON . . . 54

XXXII. f-CME FRIENDLY HINTS

XXXIII. CONSOLATION

XXXIV. THE Promotion OF 3\IR. Hawkins . . 107

XXXV. Clare's Visitors 125

XXXVI. ' AN END OF HIM ' . . . . 140

rllAPTER PACK

XXXVII. UNCONDITIONAL SURRENDER . . . 1 60

XXXVIII. THE WRATH OF MR. WILBRAHAM . .17-3

XXXIX. CHILL PENURY 187

XL. ADRIAN'S LAST ATTEMPT . . . 2<;6

XLI. THE RESULT OF AN ACCIDENT. . . 221

XLII. ' THE LAND WHERE ALL THINGS ARE

FORGOTTEN ' 237

XLIII. WESTMINSTER ABBEY . . . . 253

XLIV. A LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT . . 267

XLV. NEW LEAVES . . . 283

CHAPTEE XXVIII.

INDISCRETION.

Despite the efforts of the Nihihsts, Fenians,
and other well-meaning individuals, who have
rendered the latter part of the nineteenth century
so exciting a period to Hve in, the science
of blowing people up is still far from having
attained exactitude. In laying mines, or throwing
glass balls filled with explosives, so many
possibilities have to be taken into account, that
it almost seems as if this method of improving
society would in the end prove too disheartening
to be persevered with. The Eoyal train

VOL. III. B

passes in safety over the perilous spot, and it is
only the Eoyal baggage, following half an hour
later, that is converted into smithereens ; the
tyrant whom it is desired to ' remove ' passes
along the street deathless, while some unoffending
citizen makes a premature ascent to the
skies. And so Miss Susan Bowman, who had
conceived a really ingenious plan for wrecking
Mr. Vidal's happiness, and had worked it outwith
an attention to details which ought to have
insured success, arrived at no more satisfactory
result than the destruction of such remnants of
happiness as were left to Mr. Yidal's wife.

Clare never for a moment thought of making
such a scene as Susan's sanguine fancy had
anticipated. She knew that angry words would
not mend matters ; and even if she could have
brought herself to confess that she had played
the spy upon her husband, she would have
shrunk from speaking of what she felt to be
in some sort degrading to herself as well as to

him. Her feeling was not so much one of indignation
as of dull despair. She wanted to
get away from Adrian : not to quarrel with
him or to upbraid him, but simply to get away
from him for a time. It vexed her not a little
to discover that, in spite of all that he had done,
she loved him still. Why should she go on
caring for a man who no longer cared for her?
She could not tell why — she had always believed
that she would hate him if he proved
false to her ; but now that the blow had fallen,
she found that she did not hate him. Those
whose hearts are broken can hardly suffer much
from wounded pride. Clare's pride asserted
itself no farther than to make her resolve that
her husband should never suspect the existence
of the weakness which she could not overcome.
If I could only get away ! ' she repeated to
herself over and over again. She dwelt upon
this thought until what had at first been no
more than a vague wish became a definite and

B 2

imperative craving ; and when Adrian, who had
been dining out, came home that night, he
found her, rather to his surprise, waiting for
him in the drawing-room.

Adrian,' she said at once, ' I want to go
home for Christmas.'

To go home ? ' he echoed, in some consternation.
' Well, really, I don't quite see how
we could manage that.'

Not you ; of course you could not leave
London. But there is no reason why I should
not go alone. They would be glad to have meat
home ; and I have not been feeling well
lately.'

Are you really not feeling well, Clare ? '

I never feel quite well here,' she answered
evasively ; ' I dare say I shall feel better in
Cornwall. Have you any objection to my
going?'

Adrian hesitated. 'Won't they think it
rather odd ? ' he suggested.

I don't think so. There is nothing extraordinary
in my requiring a change of air and
in your being too busy to go out of town. You
need not be afraid about that,' she added, with
a rather bitter smile ; ' I am no more anxious
than you are that they should know what terms
we are on.'

An interval of silence was broken by a deep
sigh from Adrian. ' Do you like being upon
these terms, Clare ? ' he asked.

I think they are the only terms possible
for us,' she replied coldly. ' May I write to
my mother, then ? '

'Oh, by all means, if you wish it,' answered
Adrian, whose temper, as we know, had already
been tried that day, and who was beginning to
think that it would have been no bad thing if
Adam had been allowed to keep all his ribs.
I shall not spend a very cheerful Christmas ;
but that, of course, is of no consequence. How
long do you propose to make your visit ? '

I thought of a month ; but I could come
back sooner if I was wanted for anything here.'
She added, after a moment, ' I think the servants
understand their work pretty well now ;
but I will speak to the cook before I go, and
make arrangements, so that you shall not be
troubled about ordering dinner.'

Oh, if you are going to be as much as a
month away, I shall put the servants on board
wages and take my meals at the club,' answered
Adrian.

Clare felt a twinge of compunction. If it
had been in her power to inflict some sharp
mental suffering upon her husband, she would
not, perhaps, have stayed her hand ; but the
idea of driving him out of doors to seek his
dinner was repugnant to her. ' I am afraid
that will be very inconvenient,' she murmured ;
it is such a long way to go.'

No ; I shall not find it so. I can always
dress there in the evenings, and I rather Hke a

walk before breakfast. Besides, I am not particularly
fond of eating in absolute solitude.'

Adrian felt himself decidedly aggrieved ;
and this is always a consolatory sensation. He
did not press his wife for reasons for her
desertion of him, nor did she volunteer any.
It was arranged that she should start for
Cardrew in the second week of December, and
the prospect of a speedy release enabled her to
bear herself with tolerable composure during
the interim.

The day fixed upon for her departure was
drawing nigh, when she was made the recipient
of an honour as unexpected as it was flattering.
Lord St. Austell, who was at one time a great
frequenter of ladies' drawing-rooms, has of late
years ceased to seek relaxation in that particular
field, and is now more often to be seen
behind the plate-glass window of his club
towards five o'clock in the afternoon than
beside the tea-tables of his fair friends. Nevertheless,

it was at that hour on a dim December
day that his brougham stopped at the door of a
certain modest mansion in Alexandra Gardens,
and immediately afterwards he was shown into
the presence of our astonished heroine, his eyeglass
in his eye, a smart little bouquet in his
button-hole, and his teeth agreeably conspicuous.


And how is ]airs. Vidal ^ ' inquired his
lordship pleasantly, holding out a lavender-kicked
hand. It is hard for even the most
juvenile of old gentlemen to keep quite abreast
of the customs of the day, and Lord St. Austell
has never been able to divorce himself from his
lavender kid gloves.

I have come,' he continued, * to beg for a
cup of tea.' And thereupon he seated himself
beside Clare's work-table, and contemplated
her across it with that dreadful grinning smile
of his, in Which his eyes did not participate.

Upon the face of it, there is no reason at

all why an elderly acquaintance should not
drop in towards the close of the afternoon and
ask for a cup of tea ; but Clare would hardly
have been more taken aback if the Czar of all
the Russia had suddenly presented himself
with the same modest request. She displayed
a good deal of confusion, thereby delighting
her visitor, who thought modesty a very becoming
thing in a yoimg woman.

I did not know you were in London,' she
remarked, saying the first thing that came into
her head.

I only arrived from Paris yesterday ; but
Lady St. Auster has been here for some weeks.
Of course, she has called upon you. Xo ? I
am quite ashamed — I blush for her. But she
is so young and thoughtless that she often
forgets her duties, I am sorry to say. She has
not forgotten Mr. Vidal, though ; for I left him
in Grosvenor Square half an hour ago. But
perhaps I ought not to have mentioned that ;

perhaps he doesn't always tell you what house
he is bound for when he goes out. I don't
mind confessing that I didn't tell Lady St.
Austell I was coming here.'

Do you take cream and sugar ? ' asked
Clare, not much relishing this style of conversation.


Anything that you are kind enough to
give me, my dear Mrs. Vidal ; senna would
taste sweet, coming from your hand. I was
saying that I had seen Mr. Yidal at my house.
I left a positive mob there — my son amongst
the rest. I don't know whether you ever met
my son.'

Clare said she had not had that pleasure.

Ah, well, you haven't missed much. Blaise
is a very good fellow, but he is too good for
poor sinners like me. He is many years older
than I am, and he depresses me so with his
solemn ways that I generally slip out of the
house as soon as he enters it. He means to

stay with us for another week, I am told.
Perhaps you will allow me to take refuge
with you sometimes during this period of
affliction.'

I should be most happy,' answered Clare,
using that conventional phrase as insincerely as
it has ever been uttered, ' but I am going down
to Cornwall the day after tomorrow.'

Lord St. Austell fell back in his chair with
an exaggerated show of consternation. ' Going
down to Cornwall ! Oh, Mrs. Yidal, how can
you have the cruelty to deal such knock-down
blows with a smiling face .^ Why go down to
the gales and rains of Cornwall? Why not
stay in London and console the humblest of
your slaves ? Do stay ! ' He bent insinuatingly
over the table, and stretched out his hand
to grasp that of his hostess, which, however,
he missed, owing to its abrupt withdrawal.

Clare shrank back affrighted from those
grinning jaws, those wicked old gleaming eyes.

It must be admitted that Lord St. Austell's
method of making love was somewhat wolfish ;
but he had met with so many a tender lambkin
willing to jump down his throat, that he had
not unnaturally learnt to make advances more
bold than wary. Nevertheless, he knew
better than to follow up one false step by
another : so, pushing back his chair, he fell to
discoursing about Paris and the last new play
at the Comedie Franchise in a pleasant, fatherly
sort of way, until she became reassured, and
began to think that perhaps he was not such a
bad old man after all. Having created this
favourable impression, he proceeded forthwith
to obliterate it.

I suppose,' said he, ' that when you are in
Paris you spend a good deal of your time in
flattening your nose against the jewellers'
windows. All ladies do. So do I, sometimes.
I saw this,' he continued, opening a small
velvet case, which he took from his breast-pocket,

' in the Eue de la Paix, and it rather
took my fancy.'

Clare examined the diamond pendant handed
over to her for inspection. ' It is lovely,' she
said.

So glad it pleases you, because I was
thinking of you when I bought it. Will you
accept it, dear Mrs. Yidal .^ '

Oh no, thank you ! ' exclaimed Clare,
dropping the case and drawing back. ' I never
accept presents of jewellery.'

Don't you think,' asked Lord St. Austell
sweetly — ' excuse my saying so ; but don't you
think that is a little bit prudish of you ? '

'Prudishness has nothing to do with it,'
replied Clare, the colour mounting into her
cheeks ; ' I don't care to receive presents from
strangers, that is all.'

'But I,' observed Lord St. Austell imperturbably,
' am not a stranger. Added to
which, I really think that, taking everything

into consideration, I may claim certain privileges.'


Bo you mean on account of your advanced
age ? ' asked Clare, who understood his insinuation,
and was made so angry by it that all her
timidity left her. ' No doubt that is quite
sufficient to absolve me of any prudishness if
I refuse to take a valuable present from you ;
still, I would rather not have it, thank you.'

Lord St. Austell thought that a little display
of temper made pretty Mrs. Vidal look prettier
than ever. It was without any acerbity that
he replied, ' I was not alluding to my age ;
only to the fact that I am my wife's husband,
while you are your husband's wife. It seems
to me that, as we are both so accommodating,
we are entitled to treat ourselves to little equivalents
every now and then. At the same
time I should be very sorry to force my poor
trinket upon you against your will. Let us talk
about something else.'

But Clare did not want to talk about anything
else. Her only wish was to get rid of
this odious old satyr as soon as possible, and
she made that wish so plain that he was presently
compelled to take his leave. He squeezed
her hand affectionately at parting, and said,
As you are going away, Mrs. Vidal, I shall
go too. There will be nothing to stay in
London for now ; but we shall meet again
before the spring, I trust, and in the meantime
I shall be always thinking about you.'

To this speech Clare listened in chilling
silence ; but when her venerable persecutor
had left her, she sat down and began to cry
softly. This, then, was the sort of life that she
was destined to lead henceforth ; and it was to
insults such as these that women of the world
were expected to submit without taking offence ;
and it was in the society of such people as the
St. Austells that Adrian delighted !

Had she been able to read the thoughts

that were passing through Adrian's mind at the
same moment, she would have discovered that
he did not always find Lady St. Austell's society
delightful. On entering her drawing-room that
afternoon he had found a large assemblage of
visitors already seated there, and before them
all she had smiled upon him, languished at
him, and whispered to him, in a way that
caused them to exchange significant glances,
and made him very uncomfortable. He did
not want to be thus distinguished ; he did not
want people to say — as he knew they would

say that he was the latest of this capricious

lady's admirers ; and he did his best to check
her advances. In this attempt he failed completely.
Lady St. Austell had three good
reasons for conducting herself as she was doing.
Firstly, flirtation was as the breath of her
nostrils to her ; secondly, she wished to get
rid of her visitors, who bored her ; thirdly and
lastly, it gave her much pleasure to shock her

Step-son, Lord Blaise, whom she could not
endure, and who was now standing upon the
hearth-rug, looking down upon her with astonishment
and disgust. So she continued to
whisper soft nothings to Adrian, and the
visitors departed one by one, and Lord Blaise
looked more and more displeased every minute.
There was a saying to the effect that the
Earls of St. Austell were alternately rips and
prigs, and that a black-haired earl was invariably
succeeded by a red-headed one.
Perhaps each heir-apparent, on surveying himself
in the glass, may have felt that it was
hopeless to struggle against his manifest destiny,
and so may have helped to perpetuate
the tradition. The father of the present holder
of the title had been an eminently respectable
old person who had lived well within his income,
and had collected butterflies ; his sou,
who was now something more than middle-aged,
and whose carroty locks were streaked

c

with grey, had once been described by the
leader of his party as the most conscientious
and the dullest man in England. When Lord
Blaise rose in the House of Commons there was
a general stampede. No one had ever been
found who could listen to him for five minutes
without falling into profound slumber, and the
newspapers never thought of reporting him at
length. This did not prevent him from plodding
on with his carefully prepared speeches
from the exordium to the bitter end ; nor had
it kept him out of office. He had been Under
Secretary for various departments, and had distinguished
himself by the patience with which he
submitted to be questioned, and by the extraordinary
prolixity of his replies. His party
was at present in opposition ; and this was a
source of grief to him, for he loved the labour
of going into details, and it was not always
easy to obtain a hearing when, after much research,
he had discovered some inaccuracy in

the statements of his successor. In private life
he had not a great many friends, although he
was just, benevolent, and perfectly straightforward
in all his words and ways. It is permissible
to a man to be straightforward, if
only he will be so in a pleasant manner ; but
poor Lord Blaise's manner was not pleasant,
and this made his straightforwardness unwelcome
to most people.

His step-mother, who had had to listen to
more than one remonstrance from his lips, and
had found it equally impossible to conciliate
and to break with him, derived some satisfaction
from outraging his notions of propriety ;
and if she could have induced Adrian to respond
a little more warmly now to the encouragement
vouchsafed to him, she would not have felt
that her afternoon had been wholly barren of
amusement. When the last of her guests had
gone away, she seated herself on an ottoman
beside the young author, and said :

c 3

Now we can talk in peace. You need
not mind Lord Blaise ; he is mounting guard
over us in the interests of morality, and cart-ropes
would not drag him out of the room.'

Lord Blaise cleared his voice, thrust his
hands into his pockets, and leant back against
the mantelpiece. It always took him some little
time to think of a reply, and Lady St. Austell
went on, without waiting for him, ' He may
safely be treated as a nonentity. The only language
that he speaks is the language of Hansard
and blue-books, and he won't understand more
than a word here and there of what we say.'

We have no secrets to talk about, that I
am aware of,' remarked Adrian.

How cautious you are ! It really is rather
hard that one can never count upon ten undisturbed
minutes in one's own house. The end
of it will be that I shall have to go to yours.
Will you admit me, if I knock at your door ? '

Of course we should be delighted. Lady

St. Austell,' answered Adrian ; ' but unluckily
my wife is going down to the country the day
after tomorrow.'

You don't say so ! Then the day after tomorrow
you may expect to see me. She will
leave in the morning, I suppose ? '

'Julia,' broke in Lord Blaise, in a harsh
voice, ' when do you leave town ? '

Eeally I don't know ; I haven't made up
my mind yet. If it didn't sound inhospitable,
I would ask when you mean to go.'

Your movements,' replied Lord Blaise,
need not be in any way affected by mine. I
require nothing more than a bedroom, and I
can easily remain on here after you move, if
necessary. As a matter of fact, I believe that
I shall finish the business that I have to attend
to in about three days' time.'

'In that case you may count upon being
cheered by my company throughout your stay.
But to return to what I was saying,' she added,

addressing Adrian, ' I really should enjoy
above all things paying you a visit. May I ? '

Oh, certainly,' said Adrian, with a somewhat
ungracious air.

Very well ; that is settled. The day after
tomorrow, then, about three o'clock in the
afternoon. I shall come early, so as to have a
good long time, and I shall explore the recesses
of your study, and sit in the historical
chair in which you meditate upon your
writings. Perhaps I may write a few words,
as a memento of my visit, with the historical
pen. What fun it will be ! '

Lord Blaise frowned heavily at Vidal ; but
as the latter did not speak, he felt bound to
utter a protest. ' Are you aware, Julia,' he
asked, 'that in acting as you propose you
will risk nothing less than the loss of your
character ? '

Exactly so,' agreed Lady St. Austell ;
that is the amusing part of it. I have long

wished to do something innocent and at the
same time truly shocking ; and this is an
opportunity which may not recur. There will
be very little risk about my visit to Mr. Vidal's
house ; because only three people will know of
it, and they will all hold their tongues upon
the subject, I think. I shall not tell for
obvious reasons ; Mr. Yidal will not tell because
he is a gentleman. About you I am
not quite so sure ; but after all it is only fair
to you to say that you are not an absolute
idiot.'

In view of the very serious nature of the
case,' said Lord Blaise, not at all mollified by
this passing tribute to his intellectual powers,
• I must claim the right of exercising my own
judgment as to the line of action which it maybe
advisable for me to adopt.' And with that
he marched out of the room.

Lady St. Austell bm-st into a fit of laughter.
Now, would you,' she asked — ' would you

have believed it possible that Lord St. Austell
could have such a son as that ? '

'I certainly think you were paying him
rather too high a compliment when you said
that he was not an idiot,' replied Adrian, who
was a good deal put out. ' I should have
thought any one with a grain of intelligence
would have understood that you were not
serious in proposing to go to my house.'

What !— not serious ? Indeed, I never was
more serious in my life. If anything in this
world is certain, it is certain that I shall be in
Alexandra Gardens the day after tomorrow as
the clock strikes three.'

'Eeally, I think you had better not.'

How disagreeable you are ! ' cried Lady
St. Austell petulantly. ' You never do anything
that I want you to do ! Why should you
grudge me a little harmless amusement ? It
can't hurt you whatever happens.'

Adrian was not quite so sure of that ;

but he only said, ' It was of you that I was
thinking.'

Then pray don't disturb yourself on my
account any longer. If I choose to be imprudent
for once in a way, that is my affair.
One thing I can promise you : if you won't
allow me into your house, you shall not be
allowed into mine again.'

A more alarming form of menace might
have been discovered ; but such as it was, it
served its purpose. Adrian yielded, and presently
took his leave, inwardly resolving to give
Lady St. Austell no second pretext for compromising
herself and him.

Late that night, as Lord St. Austell was
sitting in the smoking-room of his club, he
was surprised to see his son approaching him
with the aspect of one who has a purpose in
hand.

Hullo, Blaise ! ' said he, ' what are you
doing abroad at this hour? I thought your

nurse always put you to bed and tucked you
up at ten sharp during the recess.'

I want to say a word or two to you about
Julia,' began Lord Blaise, disregarding this
facetious greeting. ' She will get herself into
serious trouble if she goes on as she is doing.
I suppose you and she understand each other,
and you apparently see no objection to a good
deal that I should think highly undesirable in
my wife ; but you can hardly wish her to bethe
heroine of an open scandal, and '

Blaise,' interrupted Lord St. Austell, fixing
a steady stare upon his heir-apparent, ' did you
ever hear how it was that an ancestor of ours
came very near having his head cut off in the
reign of James IL ? '

He was suspected of being implicated in
Monmouth's rebellion. The evidence was of
the flimsiest description, and I believe that
nothing whatever was proved against him,
beyond a few imprudent speeches.'

'Just SO. He made some imprudent
speeches, and meddled with what didn't concern
him. I wouldn't follow his example if I
were you.'

Nobody can cut my head off,' remarked
Lord Blaise.

No ; but somebody can cut you out of the
whole of the Hertfordshire estates, and of a
very considerable amount of personal property.
Believe me, you had better stick to poetics, and
leave social affairs to meaner intellects.'

I am sorry if my remarks offend you,'
said Lord Blaise ; ' but your displeasure will
not prevent me from telling you that I heard
Julia make an appointment this afternoon to
visit a certain Mr. Vidal at his house the day
after tomorrow, having previously ascertained
that his wife would be absent from home on
that day.'

Lord St. Austell chuckled, and seemed
much amused. ' The deuce she did ! ' cried he.

This is great sport. My dear Blaise, you did
well to impart this distressing news to me, and
I will not disinherit you so long as you continue
to be honest and virtuous. May I ask
whether you heard any hour fixed for the
appointment that you speak of? '

Yes ; she mentioned three o'clock.'
Thank you very much. Now I won't keep
you out of bed any longer. I am sure that
the family honour is safe in your keeping, and
that you won't let anybody else into the secret
which you have so properly confided to me.
Good night.'

CHAPTEE XXIX.

AN UNWELCOME GUEST.

When Adrian lead taken Clare's ticket for
Polrutli, had put her into the train, and had
recommended her to the care of the guard, he
walked away sadly enough The day was
damp, raw, and dismal, and he shuddered as
Fie thought of the empty house whither he was
returning — that empty house in which he was
presently to have the honour of receiving Lady
St. Austell. He shuddered a little at the
thought of Lady St. Austell too, and then
could not repress a smile at the irony of the
situation. If Clare only knew who was going
to spend the afternoon in her drawing-room !
Happily, the Flying Dutchman would be

hurrying her through Devonshire by that time,
and it was in the last degree unlikely that she
would ever hear of an escapade Which it was
to Lady St. Austell's interest to keep secret. But
he ceased to smile when he remembered that
equal reliance could hardly be placed upon the
discretion of the servants. Doubtless the
servants knew very well that there was a split
between their master and mistress ; doubtless
also they were eager to arrive at its origin, and
would draw their own conclusions from so
significant a circumstance as the arrival of a
lady at the house within a few hours of Mrs.
Vidal's leaving it. After Adrian had reached
home,hebegan to hope that this aspect of the case
might have presented itself to Lady St. Austell
as well as to himself, and that calmer reflection
would induce her to abandon her rash purpose.
But this hope was doomed to disappointment.
Punctually at three o'clock her carriage
dashed up to the door, and directly afterwards

she swept into the drawing-room with an air
of triumph.

You see I have kept my word,' she said.

I feel very proud,' answered Adrian. ' I
will ring and order some tea.'

'Oh, not yet, thank you,' laughed Lady
St. Austell ; 'I have only just finished luncheon.
Now confess the truth : you never believed
that I should come, did you ? '

The proof that I did is that I am here,'
Adrian replied. ' I don't think I have ever
been at home at this hour before.'

Well, at any rate you hoped I shouldn't
come, and at this moment you are wishing withall
your heart that I hadn't. Strictly between
ourselves, I may tell you that I had quite made
up my mind this morning not to come ; but
when Blaise walked in to luncheon with a face
as long as Cromwell Eoad, and asked me what
I was going to do in the afternoon, I couldn't
resist the temptation of replying, " I thought I

told you that I was going to see Mr. Yidal."
And so here I am. If you could manage to
look a little less awkward and uncomfortable,
it would set me more at my ease.'

Adrian endeavoured to obey this injunction.
It was some relief to him to find that Lady
St. Austell was not in one of her sentimental
moods. * What shall I do to amuse you ? ' he
asked cheerfully.

I don't think I need call upon you to
exert yourself yet ; just at present the sensation
of being here is sufficiently amusing in itself.
So your wife has gone home, has she ? '

Yes. I don't know whether you care for
Japanese china ; but I have some Satsuma in
the next room which my father-in-law got forme,
and which is rather good, I believe.
Would you like to see it .^ '

Presently. I was going to ask you about
your wife. Why has she gone off like this ? '

She wants to see her people.'

That is reassuring. I was afraid I might
be the innocent cause of her fiic{ht.'

• She does not even know that you are
in London,' said Adrian, with a touch of impatience.


I wouldn't be so sure of that if I were
sou. She knows more than 3'ou think for,
perhaps : people's wives generally do. And
I can tell you something about her that you
don't know. She has made a conquest.'

Indeed ? '

Yes ; indeed. And who, of all people in
the world, should her admirer be but mv
husband ! Isn't it funny ? It is as if we four
had sat down to a rubber of whist ; only weare
all rather bad players, because we can't
find out what our partners have in their hands.
I don't know when I have been more tickled
than when I heard of Lord St. AustelFs last
infatuation. The second coachman told his
valet, who told my maid, who told me, that he

VOL. III. D

paid Mrs. Vidal a visit of over an hour the
other day.'

A more unwelcome piece of intelligence
could hardly have been conveyed to Adrian,
who now began to understand why Clare had
avoided speaking to him or looking at him
during the last two days. ' This is very
flattering,' he remarked grimly.

*Well, not so very, because Lord St.
Austell is anything but particular, and I doubt
whether he ever was what I should call really
in love in his life. It is great fun, though.'

It does not appear so to me,' said Adrian ;
but possibly my appreciation of the ludicrous
may be defective.'

Lady St. Austell stared at him and laughed.
How glum you look ! ' she exclaimed. ' Are
you going to assume the part of a jealous
husband ? That would be perfect ! It would
then only remain for Lord St. Austell to honour
me in the same way — he does so sometimes —

and the whole business would become so delightfully
involved that we should none of us
know exactly what was the matter. What I
should like would be to see Lord St. Austell
and Mrs. Yidal walk into the room now.'

Heaven forbid ! ' ejaculated Adrian.

Heaven is not likely to work miracles for
our benefit ; but supposing that it were possible
for those two to appear suddenly, what a
thrilling scene we should have! You must
admit that it would be thrilling.'

I dare say it would,' answered Adrian ;
but I don't think I like being thrilled. Won't
you come and look at my china, and leave the
absent to look after themselves ? '

Inwardly he was wondering how much
longer Lady St. Austell meant to stay'. He had
found it pleasant enough to visit her in
Grosvenor Square, and to be sympathised with
and petted by her ; but it was quite another
thing to have her sitting in his own drawing



room, suggesting horrible catastrophes, and
affecting that recklessness of tone which is so
extremely repulsive in a woman of whom you
do not happen to be enamoured. He heartily
wished that he had had the strength of mind
to tell her plainly that he must decline to
receive her during his wife's absence.

As, however, the mischief was done now,
and could not be undone, he wisely resolved
to make the best of things, and not to offend a
lady who, good-natured though she was, did
not readily pardon those who remained insensible
to her charms.

CHAPTEE XXX.

AX Unlucky DAY.

Clare, meanwhile, had been making acquaintance
with the vicissitudes of travel. When
the train reached Swindon, it became evident
that something had gone wrong. There was
more than the usual bustle going on upon the
platform ; the railway officials were clustered
together in a group, and the passengers were
excitedly telling one another — as passengers
always do when an unexpected delay occurs —
that there had been a frightful accident and
appalling loss of life. Clare could get no coherent
information out of her fellow-travellers ;
but presently the guard into whose charge
Adrian had committed her came up, and asked,

Was you the lady as booked for St. Colombo
Eoad, i'm ? '

Clare said, ' Yes ; has there been an accident?'


Not to say an accident, i'm ; but there's
been a bit of a landslip somewheres down the
line, and I doubt they won't get it clear afore
night. You see, if you was going no further
than Plymouth, i'm, we might be able to get
you there later ; but as 'tis, I don't see no
chance for you.'

What am I to do, then ? ' asked Clare in
dismay.

Well, i'm, if you art me, I should say
5^ou was best go back to London. There's the
up express going out in five minutes, as '11 get
you to Paddington at 2.45, and the company '11
pass you down tomorrow with the same ticket.'

There did not seem to be much choice
'^**^" about the matter. Clare despatched a telegram

"^ H ' ■ ' ', to her father, and was presently speeding

towards the metropolis again in the company
of several angry individuals, who, like herself,
had been compelled to abandon their journey,
and who perhaps had less reason for railing at
the" luck than she had. It is always a disagreeable
thing to have to return after saying
good-bye ; but in Clare's case this necessity was
more than usually painful. The only grain of
comfort that she could take to herself, as she
was driven away from the Paddington station,
was the thought that she certainly would not
find Adrian at home on her return. He would,
of course, dine at his club, and the chances
were that she would not see him until the following
morning; so that there would be no
need for a long interview between them before
they parted again. That she herself would
have to do without dinner was not a prospect
that distressed her; for she had no appetite,
and, indeed, cared little about dinner at the
best of times.

She was becoming more cheerful, when an
incident occurred which convinced her that
this was indeed an unlucky day. Near the
Albert Hall her hansom was brought to a
standstill, and suddenly, to her horror, a too
familiar voice exclaimed, ' Mrs. Yidal ! — is it
possible ? Have you relented at the last moment,
and decided not to bereave us yet
awhile ? '

Lord St. Austell's nose and teeth and eyeglass
appeared before Clare's unwilling eyes,
like a nightmare, out of the murky atmosphere.
I was on my way to your house,' he continued.
Going to call on your husband, you know ; I
quite forgot to leave a card for him the other

day. Allow me ' And with an agility

very creditable in one of his years. Lord St.
Austell hopped into the hansom and seated
himself beside his victim. 'Now we will proceed
together,' said he. * I call this a most
auspicious meeting.'

It certainly seemed to give him a great deal
of pleasure. His habitual grin expressed real
delight this time, and presently he fell back
and went off into a fit of silent laughter which
rather alarmed his companion, who could not
understand why he should be so merry.

In truth, the days which are unlucky for
some must needs be lucky for others, and impartial
Fate, while dealing roughly with a few
of our friends upon this occasion, had smiled
upon Lord St. Austell. His lordship had indeed
set out from home with well-grounded
anticipations of enjoyment ; but this was far
more than he had hoped for. His original
plan of walking to Alexandra Gardens, asking
for Mr. Yidal, and surprising his wife in a
situation which even she would admit to be
equivocal, sank into insignificance by comparison
with the dramatic episode which he now
had it in his power to create ; and so enchanted
was he at the prospect of the coming joke that

he lead much ado to restrain himself from
ruining it by taking Mrs. Yidal into his confidence.
He listened inattentively to her account
of the mishap which had caused her return,
and only began to be amused when she
assured him earnestly that he would not find
her husband at home.

Good-bye, Lord St. Austell,' she said, as
she stepped nimbly out on to the pavement ; ' I
won't ask you to come in.'

How cruel you are to me, Mrs. Yidal ! '
exclaimed the old gentleman reproachfully.
But perhaps I shall be allowed into the house,
though you won't invite me. I came here to
call on your husband, you know.'

It really is not worth while to get out and
ask for him,' said Clare. ' He is quite certain
to be at his club.'

Lord St. Austell, however, had already
rung the bell ; and great was the astonishment
of the parlour maid on witnessing the return of

her mistress, thus escorted. Had this young
woman been possessed of presence of mind or
consideration for the feelings of others, she
would no doubt have mentioned that Adrian
was not alone ; but presumably she lacked
these gifts, and even ordinary good manners
into the bargain ; for all that she did was to
open her eyes very wide and ejaculate, ' Lord
bless me, mum ! Mr. Yidal will be surprised ! '
After which she tripped upstairs to open the
drawing-room door.

A careful comparison of the time required
to drive from Paddington to Alexandra Gardens
with that occupied by the conversation between
Adrian and his visitor, recorded in the last
chapter, will show that the new-comers readied
the foot of the staircase very shortly after Lady
St. Austell had so rashly expressed a wish for
their appearance. Neither she nor Adrian
had heard the door-bell ring ; but they were
startled simultaneously by the sound of footsteps

on the stairs, and exchanged glances of
dismay.

Good gracious ! ' exclaimed Lady St. Russell,
' there's somebody coming ! What shall I
do?'

There was no time for anything. The
words were barely out of her mouth when the
door was flung open, admitting Lord St. Austell
and Mrs. Yidal ; and the tableau which ensued
was doubtless appreciated to the full by the
only one of the four persons concerned therein
who was in a condition of mind to take note of
its various features.

Adrian started up. His heart died within
him, and a chilly conviction crept over him
that he was in a worse scrape now than he had
ever been in before. Lady St. Austell began
to laugh; but when she met her husband's
steady, malignant gaze, she ceased suddenly
and caught her breath. What would he do to
her ? She had always been frightened of him,

and lie knew that he was not the man to show
mercy for the sake of mercy. Clare stopped
short on the threshold, feeling dazed and sick,
as if she had received a physical blow. The
walls seemed to be turning round her, a mist
rose before her eyes, and she would very likely
have fainted had she not felt the touch of Lord
St. Austell's arm, which was extended to catch
her. From that contact she shrank away,
making a strong effort to command herself, and
stood, grasping the back of a chair with one
hand, and looking with a sort of fascination at
Adrian's face, which was as white as her own.
It was Lord St. Austell's high-pitched, sarcastic
voice that broke the silence.

Why don't you have a screen in your
drawing-room, Mr. Vidal? I thought everybody
had Japanese screens nowadays. It is a
pity you forgot that useful article when you
were furnishing, because, if you had only had
it, we might have done the scene from " The

School for Scandal" to perfection. Lady St.
Austell would have been Lady Teazle ; you
would have been Joseph Surface ; I should
have been Sir Peter; and Mrs. Vidal — well,
there the cast breaks down a little ; but perhaps
I might have managed Charles Surface's
laugh myself. To tell the truth, I am not sure
that I am particularly well fitted to play Sir
Peter's part ; but I so far resemble him that -I
shall be glad to hear anything that you may
have to say for yourself, Mr. Vidal.'

Is this a preconceived plot ? ' broke out
Adrian hoarsely. In truth, he hardly knew
what he was saying.

My dear sir, you must permit me to remark
that that is neither a very polite nor a
very intelligent question. Ladies do not, as a
rule, preconcert plots of which the last act
takes place in the Divorce Court. May I inquire
again whether you have anything to say
for yourself ? '

Nothing to you,' returned Adrian, finding
a foolish Comfort in defying somebody.

Lord St. Austell raised his eyebrows.
There was a time,' he observed — ' I am sorry
to say that I am old enough to have more than
one personal reminiscence connected with it —
when, after such an answer as that, further
words would have been superfluous. Indeed, I
suppose that, whatever your answer had been,
neither you nor I could have avoided a hostile
encounter fifty years ago ; and I may add that
it is no bad thing for you that the century is
so far advanced, for I should undoubtedly have
killed you, if we had fought fifty years ago.
Nowadays, as you are aware, a different mode
of procedure is customary. We simply take
Sir James Hannen and the public into our
confidence, and all is amicably arranged,
without loss of life.'

Sydney ! ' gasped Lady St. Austell, clasping
her hands in a paroxysm of alarm, 'you

don't mean what you say — you cant mean it !
You know I never did anything wrong in my
life ! '

Lord St. Austell focussed Iiis eye-glass on
his wife, and surveyed her with interest. ' I
am not prepared,' he answered, ' to make quite
so startling an assertion as that ; but I will go
so far as to say that never have I beheld a more
innocent-looking person. Innocence is written
upon every line of your countenance, my love
or at least it would be written there, if your
countenance possessed any lines. You are
agitated ; but not more so than the circumstances
warrant. You are indignant ; but that
is only what an innocent person ought to be ;
and I observe with pleasure that the colour has
not forsaken your face.'

Poor Lady St. Austell was ghastly. The
fixed spots of pink upon her cheek-bones,
which were hardly distinguishable at ordinary
times from the nati-al bloom of youth, contrasted

strangely with the greenish-yellow tinge
of the skin around them. There was a pause,
during which Clare quietly left the room ; and
then Adrian bethought himself that he had
taken a somewhat unwise course in refusing to
give the explanation asked of him.

Perhaps,' said he, ' I had better tell the
plain truth about this unfortunate business.
Lady St. Austell called here this afternoon out
of sheer — what shall I says — bravado. She
wanted, I believe, to shock Lord Blaise, who
had annoyed her by some things that he said.
It is rather hard hues upon me, seeing that I
did my best to dissuade her from coming, and
that I shall have to suffer for my folly in giving
way ; but I see no reason why she should not
get oifscot-fi'ee.'

There is no reason,' cried the unhappy lady,

who was thinking only of her own predicament,

and did not notice the somewhat ungracious

manner in which she was exculpated. ' It all

VOL. III. E

happened just as Mr. Yidal says. I never
meant the slightest harm, and I know it is only
that spiteful, dishonourable, red-headed wretch
who has caused all this trouble ! ' And here,
being overcome by the poignancy of her
remorse, she burst into a flood of tears.

Lord St. Austell laughed — not ill-naturedly.
Be comforted,' said he ; 'I am not going to
petition for a divorce. I have fifty good reasons
for refraining from doing so, amongst which,
perhaps, the most excellent is that I shouldn't
get one. There is no evidence to convict you
of anything worse than of being a singularly
foolish woman ; and it is hardly necessary to
put the law in motion in order to arrive at a
conviction of that. Excuse my plain language.'

With such a load of apprehension lifted
from her mind, Lady St. Austell would have
forgiven anything. She promptly dried her
eyes, which began to sparkle again ; and her
husband went on.

May I advise you both not to attempt this
sort of thing again ? People who can't command
their nerves ought not to court risk. I myself
have often been far more awkwardly situated
than you were just now, and I have always
extricated myself without difficulty ; but then
Im not nervous. — Well, Mi Yidal, the play is
over now, and it only remains for us to bid you
good-bye and go home. Please present my
compliments to Mrs. Vidal, who I am sorry to
see has left us, and tell her that I trust she will
show as forgiving a split as I have done.'

When Adrian was left alone, he sat down,
and for the space of five minutes made use of
every strong expression that he could think of,
without thereby succeeding in jutting much
additional heart into himself. What he was to
say to Clare he had no idea ; but it was certain
that he must say something to her, and presently
he followed her to her bedroom, screwing

E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

up his courage as best he could to face the
inevitable.

He found the door locked, and she only
opened it a couple of inches to give him a brief
account of the misadventure which had caused
her return ; after which she begged that she
might be left undisturbed until the next
morning.

Won't you let me tell you how all this has
come to pass ? ' pleaded Adrian humbly.

But she answered, ' To-morrow morning,
if you wish — not now.'

And in the morning he found her as impracticable
as he had feared that she would be.
He confessed the whole truth, admitting that
he had done wrong in suppressing the fact that
Lady St. Austell had been for some Aveeks in
London, but declaring that his motives had not
been bad motives, and asseverating with a
fervour which ought to have been convincing
that he had never entertained any feeling for

that lady that was not of a mildly friendly
character. But after what Clare had witnessed
in Kensington Gardens such protestations
could only disgust her. She listened to him
impassively for a time, and then interrupted
him with, —

I would rather hear no more about it,
please. I don't wish to refer to the subject
again ; nor, I should think, do you.'

CHAPTEE XXXI.

THE STING OF THE SCORPION.

One morning in January, Adrian, after breakfasting
at his club, thought it would be a good
thing to stroll down to the office of the ' Anglo-saxon.'
It was some considerable time since
he had seen the editor of that hybrid publication,
and amongst the letters which lav beside
his plate was one from Pilkington, in which he
was asked to ' look in some day between eleven
and twelve o'clock.' Another of his letters was
from Clare, who had now been several weeks
absent, and whose return had not yet been
spoken of. It cannot be said that Adrian
wished for her return. He had succeeded in
making himself thoroughly angry with her, and

in exonerating himself from all blame. At the
bottom of his heart there may still have lurked
some belief that things would come right in the
long run ; but he said to himself repeatedly
that he had no such hope, and that if she was
determined to make life a burden for them
both, it was certainly better that they should
remain apart. As Clare, starting from other
premisses, had arrived at a similar conclusion,
there seemed little likelihood that the husband
and wife would meet again until they found
it advisable to quiet the suspicions of their
relatives. A tacit agreement that the latter
consideration was of some importance caused
them to white to each other twice a week ; and
the difficulty of composing the letter thus exchanged
may perhaps be regarded as part of the
penance which they both undoubtedly deserved.
Some people, as we know, have to do
penance for being worse than their neighbours,
others for being better, and some only for

being a little too prominently before their
neighbours' eyes. It was in the last capacity
that Adrian had begun rather to regret his
connection with the ' Anoflo-Saxon.' Wilmington's
crotchet of making his contributors sign
their articles had not worked well. A man
may submit to adverse criticism if his critic be
personally unknown to him, or even if the
identity of the critic be only shrewdly guessed
at ; but when Tom, Dick, or Harry openly
proclaims himself as a Minos sitting in judgment
upon his fellows, the matter assumes quite
another complexion. In such a case poor
Minos can hardly hope to give satisfaction.
His capacity, unprotected by the editorial ' we '
in which so much virtue lies, is pretty sure to
be called in question ; it will be asked what
business he has to thrust his personal predilections
and prejudices down people's throats, and
his praise will be little less resented than his
blame.

'Am I, who have been before the public
for twenty years, to be patronised by a
whipper-snapper who only learnt to write his
own language the other day ? ' calls out Jones,
the eminent novelist. ' Who the deuce cares
whether he thinks me " upon the whole the
most skilful portrayed of modern English life
that we have among us " or not ? " Upon the
whole " is good. Of course we understand who
runs me close and might be said to surpass me,
if modesty didn't close his lips.'

Thus Adrian had made enemies for himself;
and to make enemies was what he could not
endure. Moreover, he had been distressed
latterly by comments upon the management
of the 'Anglo-saxon' which had reached his
ears. The editorial disclaimer which had been
wrung from Pilkington by Lady St. Austell,
and which has been quoted already, had given
rise to a good deal of disrespectful mirth ; nor
was this the only instance in which that gentleman

had thought it necessary to inform his
readers that, though he sat upon the box, he
did not drive the coach. The common belief is
that even the most perfectly trained of teams
requires to be driven by somebody, and
Pilkington had been at some pains to point
out that his team was not trained at all. Thus
the public had fallen into the disastrous habit
of laughing at him and his queer paper ; and
Adrian feared — without having any precise
information upon the point — that the circulation
of the latter was not what could be wished.
He had as yet received no return for the two
thousand pounds which he had so reluctantly
invested in it, although he had supposed that
the dividends would have been payable half-yearly.
Fifty per cent, would have been extremely
welcome to him, and so, indeed, would
twenty-five. Ten would not have been amiss.
Of late his expectations had become so modest
that he had more than once muttered to himself

that he would be very glad to see his two
thousand back, without a penny in respect of
interest.

Revolving all these things in his mind,
Adrian walked slowly towards the Strand,
where the offices of the ' Anglo-saxon ' were
situated. These were not particularly commodious
; but the editor's room had been
furnished with rather more regard to elegance
than is generally bestowed upon such apartments,
in deference to the fastidious tastes of
its present occupant — who, by the way, was
seldom to be seen in it.

Pilkington, who was seated before a broad
writing-table, swung round in his chair, which
turned on a pivot, and held out his hand to
Adrian with that air of kindly patronage which
was all his own. ' How do you do, Vidal ? '
he said. ' I am glad to see you again.'

And I am very glad to see you,' returned
Adrian. ' I rather wanted to ask you about

one or two things connected with the paper.
You have been a long time out of town.'

I should have been a good deal longer out
of town if I could have consulted my own
wishes ; but all this ' — and he saved his hand
towards the table, which was covered with
MSS. and proofs — ' requires looking into every
now and then. I find it a great drag
upon me.'

It occurred to Adrian that Pilkington probably
earned his salary with as little labour as
any man living ; but he said, ' I suppose you
must.'

So much so that lately I have sometimes
thought that it might be better to give it up.'

I trust you won't do that,' said Adrian
quickly. ' The whole thing would go to pieces
if you withdrew.'

Even so, the world would continue to
revolve upon its own axis much as usual, I
dare say. But I am not sure that my retirement

from the editorship would have so bad an
effect upon the paper as you are kind enough
to assume. Many people seem to think that
Mr. Larkins would replace me very efficiently.'
mr. Larkins was the subeditor — an alert,
business-ike man, not quite a gentleman, who
had won his spurs in journalism some years
back, and who devoted only a small portion of
his valuable time to the ' Anglo-saxon.' The
sub-editorship had been offered to him by the
wish of some of the proprietors, and against
that of Pilkington, who detested him, but
nevertheless left the management of all details
m his hands. It was he who wrote the paragraphs
headed ' Social Scraps ' ; and as these for
the most part referred to the doings of people
of whom he knew absolutely nothing, he depended
for Ills information upon various correspondents,
and was as often as not led into
making erroneous assertions by them. This, he
was wont to declare, was not of the slightest

consequence. Trifling misstatements broke no
bones, and an action or two for libel tended to
bring a paper into notice and increase its sale.
But his chief, who took a different view, was
made miserable by his repeated indiscretions.

Larkins would alter the entire character of
the paper immediately,' said Adrian.

Oh, no doubt ; the question is whether
the character of the paper had not better
be altered. I won't affect to deny that, sofar,
it has hardly answered my expectations.
It has been an experiment : and, after all, I
take it that the pleasure which one derives from
making experiments consists chiefly in one's
uncertainty as to how they will turn out.'

Adrian thought that depended a good deal
upon whether one had staked two thousand
pounds upon the result or not. ' For choice,'
he remarked, ' I prefer the experiments which
turn out well.'

So do I,' answered Pilkington, smiling

blandly ; ' but 'tis not in mortal to command
success. Without too much vanity, we may
flatter ourselves that we have deserved it — you
and I, at least. You were saying that you
had some questions to ask me.'

Adrian would have liked to ask whether
the ' Anglo-saxon ' was paying its way, and how
soon persons who had risked money in the
undertaking might expect to receive some
return for their investments ; but finding it
rather difficult to put these inquiries into so
many words, he said, ' Oh, I don't know that
there was anything very particular after all. I
wanted to know, in a general way, how things
were going on.'

Apparently Mr. Pilkington did not think that
this called for any rejoinder from him. He sat
silent for a few moments, trimming his nails
with a penknife, and then said, ' By the way,
have you seen this week's number of the
"Scorpion?'

I don't think I have,' answered Adrian.
Is there anything special in it ? '

They treat us — or, perhaps, I ought rather
to say you — to a column and a half of abuse.
Here it is, if you care to look at it.' And
he handed Adrian a copy of the paper in question,
pointing out the article to which he had
alluded.

It was headed ' Qiiis custodis ipso custodes f '
and from its opening sentences Adrian learnt
that the ' Anglo-saxon,' in spite of its failure to
command popular support, had, from the outset,
afforded a great deal of amusement to its
readers. It had not been taken seriously ; but
then (said the writer) any one who was at all
behind the scenes must have known all along
that it was not intended to be so taken. The
editor possessed a delicate appreciation of
humour, and it was impossible to doubt that he
had had many a quiet laugh over the performances
of the distinguished contributors whom

lie had prevailed upon to exhibit themselves in
unwonted attitudes to an astonished public.
The enjoyment that was afforded to him by his
publication was probably analogous to that of the
ingenious person who persuades elephants to
stand on their heads on inverted tubs, and poodle-dogs
to fire off pistols. The ' Anglo-saxon ' had
been thoroughly funny from first to last ; butin
nothing had the editor shown himself more
determined to have his joke than in handing
over the critical department to Mr. Adrian
Vidal, an author who had produced one bad and
one fairly good novel, but dio was otherwise
unknown to fame. Month after month this
very self-satisfied young gentleman had been
apportioning praise and censure among the
greatest living writers of fiction with a gravity
which was about the most comical thing that
the spokesman of the 'Scorpion' could remember.
Then followed a list of some of the books
which poor Adrian had been ordered to review,

VOL. Ill p

together with extracts from his comments upon
them, which it was no very difficult matter to
turn into ridicule. ' But,' continued the writer,
pulling himself together, as it were, and becoming
grave, ' there is a point at which incapacity
ceases to provoke laughter ; and after perusing
Mr. Vidal's last effort, which deals with recent
French novels, we are inclined to ask whether
the time has not come for his removal into some
other sphere of usefulness. Of the six works
which he has sinned out for unreserved commendation,
we can only say that we hope never
to see any one of them in the hands of an
English lady.' The works referred to were
then discussed as fully as the modesty of the
writer would allow : ' and these,' he concluded,
with righteous indignation, ' are the pretty
stories which Mr. Vidal has the face to recommend
for general reading.'

I never did anything of the sort ! ' cried
Marian, throwing down the paper. ' I never

recommended them for general reading. I said
they were admirable as works of art, and so
they are. As for their morality, I didn't see
that I was called upon to direct attention to that.
Everybody knows that French novels must
be judged by a standard altogether different
from ours, and it would be perfectly ridiculous
to begin each review by saying, " This plot is
not one which an English author would have
ventured to employ." The books were not
objectionable of their kind, and the man who
wrote this knows that as well as I do. It
is a most dishonest and blackguardly attack ! '

Pilkington continued to pare his nails : he
did not manifest any responsive ire. ' I have
not read the books,' he remarked.

Head them, then, and judge for yourself,'
said Adrian, feeling that his editor was not
supporting him as he ought. ' As it happens,
four out of the half-dozen books are by
members of the Academy, and the remaining

two are by men whom it would be the most
absurd prudery to call immoral writers.'

Yes ; but, as a matter of fact, are the plots
immoral ? ' asked Pilkington.

Why, of course they are, in one sense.
The writing is not immoral — looking at it as a
Frenchman would look.'

I dare say not ; but attacks such as this,
whether honest or not, are calculated to do
us great harm with the public ; and if the
facts upon which they are based cannot be
denied, it is impossible to make any reply to
them.'

Adrian, nevertheless, resolved that he
would reply, and that his reply should be of
such a nature as to cause not only his assailant,
but every scribbler connected with the
Scorpion,' to writhe. Angry as he was already,
he became much more so when he had picked
up the paper again and finished the article,
which, quite characteristically, carried its sting
in its tail.

'We will not be too hard upon Mr. Yidal' —
so ran the concluding paragraph. 'His taste in
literature is peculiar ; but we are constrained
to admit that its peculiarity is not so great but
that a considerable number of so-called decent
people share it with him, and we are willing
to believe that he is personally as decent as the
best of them. He has a right to his taste.
But what he has no right to do, in his quality
of critic — even though he be but the critic of a
serio-comic publication like the " Anglo-saxon "
is to advise our wives and daughters to read
books whose chief aim is to throw contempt
upon those domestic and conjugal virtues for
which, no doubt, Mr. Yidal's own private lite
is conspicuous.'

It was clear enough to Adrian that the last
words must have been written by some one who
was not unacquainted with the circumstances
of his private life. An enemy had done this
thing ! ' Upon my soul ! ' he exclaimed aloud,
I believe a thick stick would convey the most

suitable rejoinder that could be made to such a
fellow.'

I think,' said Pilkington, holding up his
hand before him, and admiring his carefully
trimmed nails through half-closed eyes, ' that
you had better keep your temper. There is
nothing to be gained by responding to challenges
of that kind — either with sticks or pens.
Besides, your case is not a very good one.
You admit that the books were immoral books,
and it is certain that you praised them highly.'

I praised what deserved praise in them,
and held my tongue about the rest. I never
recommended them.'

Praise in a review implies recommendation,
as a matter of course. The " Scorpion " is
ill-natured and unjust ; but to tell you the
truth, Vidal, I think you have been guilty of a
slight error in judgment.'

This was more than Adrian could stand.
'If that is the view that you take,' he answered,

with calm fury, 'my engagement on the "Anglo-saxon
" had better come to an end. I can't
undertake to review books in such a way as to
please the " Scorpion ; '' and, as regards this particular
review, there isn't a single word in it
which I should wish to alter.'

Pilkington contemplated his fingers for
another minute or so before he remarked
plaintively, this it is to be an editor! I believe
I may truly say that, since I undertook the
Anglo-saxon," I have not made one solitary
suggestion, however deferential, that has not
been immediately followed by a threat of
retirement on the part of the person to whom
it has been addressed. Whether the experience
of other editors coincides with mine I do not
know ; but if it does, I think it would be no
more than common justice that our memoirs
should be added to the next issue of the Lives
of Saints.'

Some one who had entered the room unobserved

during this speech here broke into a
short laugh. ' Ail in good time,' said he, 'I
will write the memoir myself, sooner than that
it should remain unwritten ; but it is impossible
to canonise an editor until he or his journal
has ceased to' exist, and we can't do without
our '' Anglo-saxon " yet awhile, much less
without our Pilkington.'

Pilkington had so much of the magnanimity
which belongs to the truly great, that many
other persons besides Percy Kean might probably
have chaffed him with impunity, had
they been so minded ; but nobody else ever
did so. He made a half turn on his chair now,
smiling indulgently.

Ah, Kean,' he said, * you are one of the
people who know everything. Perhaps you
can tell us for what reason the " Scorpion " has
thought fit to fall upon us, tooth and nail.'

Of course 1 can,' answered Kean. ' For
the same reason that dogs delight to bark and

bite, and bears and lions growl and fight. In
addition to that, the " Scorpion " is a society
paper, and thinks you have no business to go
poaching on its preserves with your absurd
Social Scraps." Personally, I agree with the
Scorpion." '

Then let it fall foul of Larkins,' said
Adrian, who was still at white heat. ' It is
rather too bad that I am to be accused of all
kinds of wickedness because the " Scorpion " hasa
grudge against a man with whom I have nothing
whatsoever to do.'

'Oh, the " Scorpion " may have a grudge
against you too, for anything that I know to
the contrary,' returned Kean. ' I wouldn't Jet
it get a rise out of me, though.'

That is just what I have been telling him,'
observed Pilkington ; ' and because I do so, he
threatens to desert me.'

'Uh, nonsense! ' said Kean good-naturedly;
he won't desert you, nor will I. No; we will

never desert Mr. Micawber ! Let who will
play you false, Vidal and I will remain faithful
to the end. Come along, Vidal, and have
some lunch. I would ask our illustrious chief
to join us ; only I know he can't afford to be
seen with the likes of me.'

And, taking Adrian by the arm, he led him
out into the street before the latter had time to
explain that Mr. Pilkington had not reported
quite accurately the words which had prompted
his offer of resignation.

CHAPTEE XXXII.

SO^fE FRTEM)LY HINTS.

It was not without some trouble that Percy
Kean persuaded Adrian to give up the idea
of publishing a crushing reply to the ' Scorpion.'
If your soul thirsts for vengeance,' he said,
wait till you see a good opportunity of retaliating,
and then come down upon them like
a wolf on the fold. But I should strongly
advise you to take no notice. In ninety-nine
cases out of a hundred it is wiser to take no
notice. Moreover, I have a notion that you
won't write a great many more critiques for
the "Anglo-saxons"'

You don't think it is paying, then ? ' asked
Adrian anxiously.

I am quite sure it is not. With what
amount of capital it started I don't know ;
but I will venture to prophesy that it will last
just as long as that amount lasts, and no longer.'

This was not pleasant hearing for Adrian ;
yet, when he was once more alone, it was less
the probable collapse of the ' Anglo-saxon ' that
distressed him than the thought of that venomous
article as to which he had been told
that he would be wise to keep silence. How
many people would understand the significance
of the allusion to his private life he could not
tell ; but he feared that a good many would,
at all events, perceive that the words conveyed
an allusion of some kind. About this time he
became nervously observant of trifles, and soon
saw, or fancied he saw, that the nicest women
of his acquaintance were not quite so cordial in
their manner towards him as they had been,
while the others were growing more so.

Walking up St. James's Street one day,
he chanced upon Egerton, who stopped to

speak to him, and while they were exchanging
commonplaces it occurred to Adrian that he
would ask this staunch supporter of the ' Anglo-saxon
' to dinner. He would know, if any one
did, what the financial position of the paper
was ; and his nature was so communicative that
he would be pretty sure to refer to the subject
in the course of the evenings without beinsr
questioned.

And I'll get Pilkington if I can,' Adrian
added, after his invitation had been accepted.

That will be very pleasant,' said Egerton,
looking down the street. ' As it isn't the
season, I dare say he'll come.' Then he rather
abruptly withdrew his eyes from contemplation
of the clock-tower to raise them to his
companion's face. ' At your club, I think
you said ? Mrs. Vidal is still away, then ? ' he
asked.

She is still away,' answered Adrian, a little
surprised at the question ; for he knew that
Egerton was barely acquainted with his wife.

Oh, indeed,' said the other. ' Well, I
hope we shall see her back in London again
before long.' He paused for a moment, then
repeated, ' I hope we shall see her back before
long.' After which he nodded and walked
away.

This was tolerably plain speaking — so plain
as to border upon impertinence ; and what added
emphasis to it was that Egerton was not, as a
general thing, at all the kind of man to meddle
with his neighbours' domestic concerns.

'I wish people would be good enough to
mind their own business I ' muttered Adrian
as he turned into Piccadilly.

But he ought to have known better than
to waste his breath in such Utopian aspirations
as that ; and, indeed, it so happened that nc
later than the same evening he received ac
implied rebuke as unwelcome and as unexpected
as Egerton's had been.

During the hunting season Mr. Wilbrahan

was not very assiduous in his attendance at
the House ; but he ran up to London when he
could spare the time, or when he was wanted
to take part in a division, and Adrian not
unfrequently encountered and exchanged salutations
with him at evening parties. If their
intercourse did not go farther than an amiable
nod and smile on the one side, and a gruff
How are you ? ' on the other, it was because
Mr. Wilbraham had shown, in a manner not
to be mistaken, that it gave him no sort of
pleasure to talk to the popular young author.
But now it seemed as if something out of the
common must have induced him to abandon
his attitude of armed neutrality in favour of a
more aggressive one. His mien, at all events,
was aggressive, if his words were not so, when
he separated himself abruptly from a knot of
friends with whom he had been conversing, and
barred Adrian's passage, saying, ' I am told
Mrs. Yidal is ill. I hope it is not true ? '

There is nothing serious the matter, thank
Yon,' answered Adrian politely; ' she has been
a little out of sorts for some time.'

She never used to be out of sorts,' returned
the other, looking half inclined to pick a quarrel
upon the strength of this statement. ' She
always appeared to me to have as good health
as anybody.'

It is nothing serious,' Adrian repeated.
'She is not fond of London, and it has not
agreed with her particularly well'

I'm sure I don't wonder at it ! ' cried
Wilbraham. ' Nobody could keep well in such
a polluted atmosphere. I can't think how you
can have expected her to stand it.'

We should all like to have estates in the
country,' remarked Adrian smiling ; ' but as
that can't be managed, some of us are obliged
to live in the polluted atmosphere.'

I should have thought one could write
novels anywhere,' said Wilbraham ; ' but of

course one can't have a perpetual round of
entertainments in the country.' And with that
he turned on his heel and strode off.

Such rudeness was intensely disagreeable to
Adrian, who would not, if he could have
helped it, have incurred the dislike of a single
fellow-mortal. He went home that niorht feeling
sincerely sorry for himself. He was
altogether out of luck, he thought. He was
certainly not as popular as he had been : the
articles which he had written for the ' Anslo-
Saxon ' had brought him little money and a great
deal of vexation ; and now, it seemed, he was
commonly regarded as a bad husband. Nothing
had gone well with him since that calamitous
day when Clare had caught him entertaining
Lady St. Austell in her drawing-room. Hi
partner in misfortune had left town immediately
afterwards, and he had heard no more of her.
It was not likely that she would have spoken
to anybody about their detection : but now

VOL. III. G

Adrian began to wonder whether the story were
not too good a one for Lord St. Austell to keep
long to himself. If that had been divulged, it
would be easy to understand the insinuations of
the 'scorpions as well as the advice of his friends
that he should submit to them in silence.

For some days he went about with a gloomy
face, and was unusually short in his replies to
those who accosted him. Nor did the dinner
to which .he had invited Egerton and Pilkington
serve to raise his spirits. From the first moment
he saw that he had made a mistake in asking
the two men to meet one another. It was plain
that they were no longer upon such amicable
terms as when he had last seen them together ;
Egerton in particular seeming to be out of
temper, and disposed to differ in a fretful sort
of way from the eminent person to whose
opinions he had always hitherto shown himself
so eager to say ditto. Pilkington, on his side,
while maintaining his wonted courtesy, contrived,

as courteous people often do contrive,
to be excessively provoking, and led his friend
into saying some very foolish things, of which
he then, with the most delicate consideration,
pointed out the folly. Xo reference was made to
the ' Anglo-saxon ' during dinner ; but that something
would be said about it before his guests
departed Adrian was very sure ; because, as he
wanted to know the worst, he was resolved to
introduce the topic himself.

Later in the evening, therefore, he said,
^vith the innocent air of a disinterested seeker
after information, ' I hope the sale of the
Anglo-saxon " continues to be satisfactory ? '

Egerton rose like a trout at a May-fly.
Continues ! my dear fellow, it has never begun
to be satisfactory. The first two or three numbers,
perhaps — I believe they went off pretty
well ; but latterly it has been ruinous work.
Simply ruinous, you know.' And he looked
somewhat indignantly at Pilkington, who blew

G 2

a cloud of smoke from his cigarette, and watched
it floating upwards to the ceiling.

The fact of the matter is,' Egerton went
on, ' that we haven't gone to work quite in the
right way. At least, so it seems to me ; but of
course I'm not a literary man, and I only judge
by what I hear from others.'

'When I accepted the editorship,' said
Pilkington deliberately — ' and, as you may remember,
Egerton, I did so with some reluctance
I merely stipulated that I should be allowed
to manage the paper in my own way. I never
promised that that way should seem the right
way to others ; nor did I guarantee that the
paper should pay.'

'You said you thought it would.'

Well, I said I thought it would. That
was my opinion, which I gave for what it was
worth, on being asked for it. No one can regret
its failure to pay more than I do ; and I
may add that I should regret it just as much

even if I did not happen to have a money
interest in it. If the chief proprietors think th-it it
would prosper more under other management,
I shall most willingly retire from my post. In
fact, I have already thought more than once of
doing so.'

Oh, come,' expostulated Egerton, ' you
mustn't take it in that way, Pilkington ; that
wasn't at all what I meant. Your retirement
would be the greatest possible loss to us, and —
and I'm sure I hope you won't think of such a
thing.'

Pilkington smiled. *I don't know yet
whether I shall retire or not,' he answered ;
but if I am scolded, I certainly shall.' And
soon after this he said Good night

Pilkington 's a deuced awkward sort of
fellow to get on with,' remarked Egerton after
he was gone. ' You wouldn't think so to talk
to him, but he is. AU those little fads of his
about having unusual paper and type, and so

forth, have cost a lot of money, and as for
his having a pecuniary interest in the undertaking
— well, you know, that really doesn't
amount to much. Nobody wants to dictate to
him ; but one has one's ideas, and he might at
least condescend to listen to them. Instead of
which, the moment that on a hints at the
possibility of his having made a mistake he
begins to talk about resigning.'

He complains that that is the way in
which his contributors treat him,' remarked
Adrian. ' I suppose the truth is that all people
who write much are apt to grow irritable. We
don't get enough of fresh air and exercise.'

Perhaps that may be it. Anyhow, I don't
think a man ought to be above being told of
his mistakes, do you.^ If he had known of
them, he wouldn't have made them, don't you
see ? Supposing I tell you that you have made
a mistake in this or that, I take it that you, asa
sensible man, will be rather grateful to me

for letting you know of what you wouldn't
have found out for yourself, eh ? '

Does that mean that you are going to tell
me of some mistake that I have made ? '

Egerton laughed. ' Well, you know, I
think it's rather a mistake to have such articles
written about one as that in the " Scorpion." '

It's a misfortune,' said Adrian ; ' I really
don't quite see how it's a mistake. You might
as well say it's a mistake to get one's boots
muddy on a wet day. I don't like muddy
boots ; but I know no way of keeping them
clean, except staying at home. Of course, if
I didn't write at all, the "Scorpion" couldn't
make my writings an excuse for bespattering
me.'

Ah, well,' said Egerton, getting up, ' you

literary fellows are all the same ; it isn't much
use to give you friendly hints. Nevertheless,
you needn't get covered with mud if you walk
circumspectly — take my word for it.'

CHAPTEE XXXIII.

CONSOLATION.

In spite of Adrian's assertions to the contrary,
Clare was really somewhat out of health. She
had not mentioned the fact in her letters to
her husband, so that it was no fault of his if he
was unaware of it ; but it must be confessed
that she had made the most of her indisposition
to her parents, who were as firmly convinced
as Wilbraham himself that she was in no state
to brave the dangers of the London atmosphere.


I wish we could get poor Adrian down
here too,' Mrs. Irvine was wont to say to her
friends ; ' it can't be good for him to slave
night and day as he does. But his work

obliges him to remain within reach of the
British Museum, you know, and — and such
places ; and it is very kind and unselfish of
him to spare Clare to us for so long.'

With the early spring, however, the roses
came back to Clare's cheeks, and then she
herself perceived that she had no excuse for
neglecting her duties any longer. She was
stronger by this time, and had to some extent
or so she believed — lived down her trouble.
But, in truth, such troubles can only be lived
down by means of a little wholesome indifference
; and this Clare had not been able to
acquire. She retiu-ned to London determined
to endure what could not be cured, and to
show a brave front to misfortune in the future ;
but, as she still loved her husband, and still
despised herself for loving a man who had
deceived her, the chance that these excellent
resolutions would be kept was but a poor
one.

Adrian was waiting for her at the terminus,
and the moment that she caught sight of him
on the platform she was struck with the change
in his appearance. He was thinner, paler, and
his face had a worn, anxious expression which
she was puzzled to account for. Was he, too,
unhappy, then.? In spite of herself, her heart
softened towards him ; and because she felt
that it was softening, she made her greeting
somewhat colder and more formal than it need
have been, even in that public place.

Have you been quite well ? ' she asked,
hesitatingly, when her luggage had been collected,
and she was driving away from the
station with her husband. Her voice sounded
harsh as she put the question, and Adrian could
not tell that this was only the result of an effort
to steady it.

'I'm all right, thanks,' he answered shortly.
And you are feeling better, I hope ? '

'Yes,' she said; and then there was a pause.

after which Adrian began to speak about some
small household matters.

In truth, he was not just then in the mood
to make advances or to recognise any that
might be made to him Latterly many annoyances,
small and great, had made life disagreeable
to him, and in his heart he was disposed
to hold Clare responsible for them all. But
for her, he would never have been held up to
reprobation in the public press, nor quietly
dropped, in private life, by certain ladies whose
notice he had learnt to prize. But for her, he
would have been less reckless in his expenditure
than he had been during the last few months,
and more attentive to his work, which he had
begun to neglect or hurry over, with results
which were painfully apparent to him. He
thought she deserved some punishment for the
trouble which she had brought upon them both,
and he wished for no reconciliation that should
not promise to be a permanent one. He

remembered that his wife had tried to impose
conditions upon him on a former occasion, and
he was as determined as ever that he would
not have conditions. She must trust him first.
After that he would willingly and of this own
accord give up Lady St. Austell, or anyone else
to whom she might object.

Theoretically, no doubt, there was something
to be said in favour of this view ; but if
Adrian intended to wait until Clare acknowledged
herself in the wrong, it seemed likely
that he might wait until he was grey-headed ;
and in the meantime the house in Alexandra
Gardens was not exactly an earthly paradise to
either of its inmates. Both of them were
miserable, and one of them happened also to
be fretful. They tried to be distantly civil to
one another, but there was no keeping it up.
Distant civility was apt to degenerate into something
like sulky silence ; every now and then
bitter little speeches forced their way out

before they could be checked ; and the husband
and wife never felt at ease together unless
some third person was present.

Thus, when Georgina suddenly appeared
from the Arctic Circle, bringing with her a
pair of reindeer's antlers, the skin of a polar
bear, and divers powerful-smelling garments as
evidences of the genuineness of her expedition,
she received a welcome so hearty that she
could nos entertain a doubt as to its sincerity.
My dear Georgina,' Adrian said gravely, ' you
weill have to come to us forthwith ; it's a case
of simple necessity. Since you won't consent
to live with your mother, like a well-conducted
young woman, it is evident that your brother's
house is the proper place for you, and I must
insist upon taking you under my protection.
The family cant afford to trifle with its
character. Even as it is, an amiable weekly
newspaper has been kind enough to insinuate
that I am no better than I should be.'

So I hear,' remarked Georgina, looking
rather hard at him. ' I have already done my
week in Brighton, and have been posted up
in all the latest intelligence. Besides, I have
seen Mr. De Wynt.'

Poor Mr. De Wynt ! ' interjected Clare.

Why poor ? I doubt whether he ever
was poor Mr. De Wynt ; but at any rate he
is rich Mr. De Wynt now. His old uncle
is dead at last, and has left him everything.'


Has he really ? I am so glad ! ' exclaimed
Clare.

'Are you? I don't know that I am. I
thought he did very well as he was, and I
can't imagine him a High Sheriff or a Deputy
Lieutenant.'

He is fitted for any position,' Clare said
emphatically.

And calculated to adorn it ? Perhaps so,
but it is impossible to say with any certainty,

because there are some positions in which he
will never find himself.'

Something in the tone in which the last
words were spoken caused Clare to make a
rapid deduction, and late that night she invaded
her sister-in-law's bedroom with the stern air
of one who means to stand no nonsense.

Georgina,' she said, without any introductory
observations, ' Mr. De Wynt has proposed
to you and you have refused him.'

There is no evading your penetration,'
replied Georgina placidly. ' He has — and I
have.'

Then I must say,' cried Clare in great
vexation, ' that I think you ought to be
thoroughly ashamed of yourself ! '

Oh ! Well, no doubt you know best. I
am a poor simple creature, and I often do
wrong without intending it ; but why I ought
to be ashamed of myself for refusing Mr. De
Wynt, I don't altogether understand. Is it

because I am particularly fitted to be a Deputy
Lieutenant's wife ? '

Not at all ; it is because you have been
insane enough to refuse a man whom you love,
and who very likely won't give you a second
chance.'

I beg to say,' replied Georgina, ' that I
have never been in love in my life. If I felt
the slightest symptom of such a disease coming
on, I should instantly set sail for the Antarctic
Ocean and never be heard of again. I should
feel that I had genoese cas irdische Glilck^ and
that it was high time for me to disappear from
civilised society.'

It isn't the slightest use to talk to me like
that,' returned Clare loftily; 4t doesn't deceive
me for a moment.'

Very well, then ; I am pining for Mr. De
Wynt. As soon as you leave the room, I shall
throw myself, face downwards, on my bed and
give way to a paroxysm of despair. All the
same, I can't marry a man who has just come

into a fortune, and whom I persistently snubbed
when he was a comparative pauper.'

If that is the only thing '

But it is not the only thing. As I explained
to you long ago, the idea of marriage
in the abstract is repugnant to me. A single
life has its attractions, after all. Has your experience
led you to believe that marriages
never turn out badly ? '

Clare drew herself up slightly, and made no
answer, not being sure whether Georgina had
delivered this home-thrust accidentally or not.
All doubt was removed from her mind by the
latter, who went on, —

That was a brutal thing to say, was it not?
But, my dear, I intend to be brutal, and you
can't stop me. Do you suppose it isn't as clear
as the sun in heaven that you and Adrian have
fallen out? Now sit down here beside me,
and tell me the whole story from beginning to
end.'

VOL. III. H

I know you mean to be kind, Georgina,'
began Clare hesitatingly.

I do ; and that is why I am not going tolet
you put me down. I know I am not what is
called a specially sympathetic woman ; but asa
set-off, I am far more trustworthy than the
generality of women ; added to which, I know
my brother pretty well. I must not say that I
know him better than you do ; but you will
allow that I am likely to judge him with greater
impartiality.' She rose from the low chair in
which she had been sitting ; and, taking Clare
by the shoulders, forced her down into it.
Come,' she said, as she perched herself sideways
upon the arm, ' what is it all about ? '

Clare submitted. She was of too proud
and reticent a nature to make such confessions
easily ; but since it was impossible to deny
that she had quarrelled wkh her husband, it
might be as well, she thought, to tell Georgina
the truth and have done with it. She did not.

however, tell the whole truth. She cut her
recital as short as she could, and would have
suppressed, among other incidents, that of
Lady St. Austell's clandestine visit to Alexandra
Gardens, had she not wished to prove beyond
a doubt that she was the victim of no hallucination
as to Adrian's treachery.

Georgina's comments were brief and
decisive. ' I see it all,' she declared. ' Adrian
is a perfect imbecile. He always was, and I
should be inclined to add that he always will
be, only I hope that this may serve as a lesson
to him. I don't know whether you are aware
that he is rather more in love with you, if
anything, than he was a year ago.'

Clare shook her head, and smiled slightly.

Well, he is,' Georgina repeated. ' My
dear child, you may shake your head till it
rolls off your shoulders, but you won't convince
me that I am mistaken. He is a thoroughly
miserable man — and I am very glad of it I

h2

don't want you to forgive him yet awhile. If
you were capable of getting up a hard flirtation
on your own score, it would be no bad
thing ; but, as you won't do that, you had
better continue your present course of treatment.
I am not sure that, if I were a man, I shouldn't
find it more terrible than the other. But
please to bear in mind that you have no reason
whatever to be miserable. I don't think so
meanly of your intelligence as to believe that
you are really jealous of poor Lady St. Austell,
with her fat figure and her rousted cheeks.
What you do complain of is that Adrian should
seem to enjoy flirting with her or with anybody.
It's only his way ; but it's a bad way,
and I quite agree with you in thinking that he
ought to be cured of it.'

It is doubtful whether Clare derived much
comfort from the above observations. Nor,
unfortunately, was Georgina's subsequent
method with her brother the best that could

have been adopted for bringing about an
understanding between the divided couple.
She treated him with a fine, hearty contempt,
which might have amused him if he had not
been too worried to be amused by it ; she
scarcely answered him when he spoke to her ;
and, if he ventured upon a humble joke, stared
blankly at him without moving a muscle. She
wished him, in short, to understand distinctly
that he was in disgrace ; and, as she never knew
how to do things by halves, she ended by virtually
sending him to Coventry in his own house.
Towards a man of Adrian's temperament it
would have been difficult to take up a more
injudicious line. The only effect that it produced
upon him was to drive him away from
home ; and when he did come home, he
generally took care to bring friends with him.
He was restless and excitable at this time,
seeming to find his only pleasure in society ;
he did very little work, and Clare noticed that

he' had become alarmingly careless about
money. She did not know what his literary
earnings might be ; but she feared that they
could hardly be sufficient to warrant the continual
little dinner parties that he gave, the
addition of a man to their staff of indoor
servants, and the hire of a brougham. These
things made her uneasy ; and Georgina, now
that poor De Wynt had been sent about his
business, no longer provided her with a wholesome
interest to withdraw her thoughts from
her own unhappiness.

One small piece of consolation, which afterwards
became a more important one, was
afforded to her by the unexpected visit of a
friend of her girlhood, of whom she had lost
sight for some years, and who had joined a
nursing sisterhood. Sister Jane, as this lady
was now called, was sent, in the first instance,
to appeal for help by the society to which she
belonged; but finding that Mrs. Vidalwas

interested in Hearing about her work, she
remained talking for some Httle time, and was
persuaded to repeat her visit a few days later.

Clare looked with something like envy at
this cheerful, plain featured young woman, to
whom the world had seemed rather a place in
which to perform duties than to seek for happiness.
In carrying out the former she had
apparently found the latter. When questioned
upon this point, she answered simply that she
never had time to ask herself whether she
enjoyed her life or not ; but that she was quite
sure that she had not enjoyed it before entering
the sisterhood. ' For you it is very different,'
she added, divining what the wistful expression
in Clare's eyes meant. ' If I had been beautiful,
as you are, I should have expected quite
another kind of existence, and I suppose very
likely I should have got it. I don't think
there is any harm in that — only every woman
ought to find her proper place, if she can.

Those who are not ornamental had better try
to be useful.'

But Clare thought it might be possible to
be both. ' Couldn't you find something forme
to do ? ' she asked eagerly. ' Couldn't I
go to the hospitals, and — and read to the
patients, or be of some help ? '

Sister Jane smiled. ' Well, I am afraid not.
And you have your home duties, you know.'

They are soon got through. I have a
great deal of spare time — and I have no children,'
said Clare, with a sigh.

Would you like to go to the Children's
Hospital sometimes ? ' asked the other presently.
' You might really be of use there, if
you cared to go. The children are always
glad to see people ; and many of them must
be kept lying on their backs for months, poor
little souls ! Shall I take you there one day ? '

Clare jumped at the suggestion. When
should she go ? To-morrow — the next day ?

Well, tomorrow, if you like,' the good
Sister answered, smiling ; and thus it was that
Clare was provided with a better cure for
morbid self-communing than any that Georgina
could have devised.

The bright, airy ward, with its rows of little
iron beds, became a sort of haven of rest to
her. When she entered it, it seemed to her
that she left the world behind her — that weary,
heartless, purposeless world in which women
had nothing better to do than to make love to
their friends' husbands, and where men were
considered idiots if they devoted themselves to
their wives. The children became fond of her.
She took them toys, with which they managed
to play in a serious, unchildhke fashion, as they
lay there assisted before their time with the
curse of mortality. They did not understand
why she so often had tears in her eyes, for the
pathos of their condition was, happily, less
evident to them than it was to her ; but they

learnt to love her beautiful, sad face, and she
developed a faculty for narrating stories, which
rather astonished her, seeing that she had never
suspected herself of being gifted with any great
fecundity of imagination. Her husband, whose
own imagination was becoming woefully sterile
at this time, would perhaps have been grateful
to her for a hint or two ; but she had not
deemed it incumbent upon her to tell Adrian
of her frequent visits to the Children's Hospital.

CHAPTEE Xxxi.

THE Promotion OF MK. Hawkins.

Ai author or an artist who has established
himself firmly in the good graces of the public
may, no doubt, produce rubbish from time to
time with comparative impunity. His rubbish,
unless it be of a very rubbishy order indeed, is
likely enough to pass undetected ; and even in
the contrary case he may count upon being
pardoned, as carelessness is pardoned in an old
servant. But it is quite otherwise with him
who has scored but a single hit. He stands as
yet upon no pedestal, he is still upon his trial ;
and his first success tells rather against than
for him, as fixing a standard which he is
bound at least to reach, and is rather expected

to surpass. Adrian Vidal knew this as well as
anybody ; and yet, after managing to make
himself famous with ' Two Lovers,' he sat down
and wrote as ill-considered, long-winded, and
pointless a story as ever came from the pen of
a clever man. It was in a great measure the
fault of the editor of the ' Cosmopolitan Magazine,'
who had offered high pay for a serial
tale, to be commenced forthwith, and who, on
learning that Mr. Vidal had no such tale ready,
had declared that that need not stand in the
way of an arrangement, provided that monthly
instalments could be forwarded to him as they
were wanted. Good novels have been written
upon this plan sometimes, but probably not
very often. Adrian started without having the
slightest idea of how he was going to end,
never got a grasp of his characters, and, having
undertaken other work which interested him
more, soon found this particular task a heavy
burden, grievous to be borne. When he had

written the last words, he was so relieved at
getting the dread thing off his mind that he
hardly realised how bad his performance had
been, although he knew that it had been bad.

The consequence was that, as soon as he
cast his three-volume novel among the critics,
:they sprang up and choked it. Nobody had a
good word for it ; and, judging by the eloquent
silence of his friends, Adrian concluded that
their opinion fully coincided with that of then-appointed
guides. One acquaintance, more
outspoken than the rest, caught him by the
arm, as he was walking through the Park one
morning, and said, ' My dear fellow, I've just
been reading your book, and I'm sure you'll
excuse my telling you that it's the stupidest
book I ever read in all my life. How on earth
came you to ^viite such bosh ? '

You are very kind,' answered Adrian ;
you seem to imply that I can write something
that is not bosh.'

Oh, that's of course. I read your other
book — what was it called ? " Free Lovers," or
something — and thought it first-rate. I'll tell
you what it is, old chap : you've been overdoing
it — writing too much, you know. You take
my advice, and go easy for a bit. You'll find
you'll come up as fresh as paint next season.'

Very likely,' said Adrian. But he added
under his breath, as he walked on, ' Always
supposing that I survive to see another season.'

He was not a man who knew how to playa
losing game, or to profit in any way by
failure. Discouragement numbed his faculties
and soured his temper ; and it was not only
the ill success of his novel that weighed upon
his spirits just now. That, to be sure, was a
serious matter enough, for he had arranged
with his publishers for payment contingent
upon the sale of the book, and there was now
every reason to fear that he would get hardly
a fourth of the sum upon which he had calculated

; but what distressed him more than this
was the unquestionable fact that he had ceased
to be in request socially. Had the case been
that of any other man than himself, he would
have understood easily enough that the people
who had wanted to know a small celebrity a
year ago had now satisfied their curiosity and
wanted to know somebody else ; but it was no
more given to Adrian than it is to the generality
of us to take an impartial survey of his own
circumstances, and so he tormented himself
with the notion that he was a sinking ship, and
that the rats were leaving him.

That he was not quite in a seaworthy condition
must be admitted. He had spent a good
deal more money of late than he had any business
to spend ; he had counted upon receipts
which had not come up to his expectations, and
when he had found himself becoming somewhat
seriously involved had grown indifferent to
small extra expenses, after the time-honoured

fashion of those who exceed their incomes.
Upon the whole, he had very good and sufficient
reasons for feeling depressed ; although
loss of popularity was perhaps not the most
legitimate of them. He thought it a Httle hard
that there should be neither consolation nor
sympathy for him at home. Of course, both
Clare and Georgina must have heard of his
literary fiasco ; but neither of them made the
most distant reference to the subject, or betrayed
any knowledge of his having published
a new novel at all. It is true that if they
had attempted to pity him he would promptly
have resented their pity ; but he would have
liked them to say that they were sorry nevertheless.
Every one who has been in trouble
must be aware that to snub one's comforters is
one of the most precious privileges of affliction.
This privilege was denied to Adrian, and he
could not quite understand it. He was always
expecting Clare's icy reserve to melt. ' She

could not be so unrelenting if stir had any real
love for me,' lie thought bitterly. And yet he
might have known that if she had not loved
him she would have been ready to make friends
with him at once.

Once, and once only, she seemed to waver
in her purpose. Entering the drawing-room
softly, one evening before dinner, she found
Adrian reclining in an arm-chair, his head
supported by his left hand, while his right
hung listlessly by his side. His back was
turned towards her, and she stood for a
moment watching him, and wondering what
that attitude of exhaustion and dejection meant.

Are you tired, Adrian ? ' she asked at
length.

He started and looked up. ' Tired ? No —
not more than usual, I think.'

You are not ill, are you ? ' piu-sued Clare,
after pausing awhile.

Adrian rose and walked to the window.

VOL. III. I

Oh no ; I'm not ill that I know of,' he
answered, rather peevishly. ' I don't feel in
very rollicking spirits, that's all. Perhaps it
would be rather odd if I did.'

It was then that Clare was very nearly
forgetting all her wrongs. She followed her
husband to the window, and said gently, ' May
I know why you are out of spirits ? '

Oh, certainly,' replied Adrian, with a
short laugh. 'I have discovered that I have
made a big mistake in my life, and I am afraid
the discovery comes rather too late to be of
much use.'

Clare froze again instantly. ' I am afraid
it does,' she said, and left the room.

He was provoked with her for misunderstanding
him so wilfully. He had meant her
to question him further. Had she done so he
would have explained that he was referring to
his career as a novelist ; and then she might have
tried to encourage him; and then perhaps

But since she was pleased to assume him
capable of alluding to his marriage as ' a big
mistake ' — a thing which no gentleman would
say to his wife — why, it was scarcely worth
while to undeceive her. If that was the sort
of opinion that she had of him, there would
evidently be little use in attempting to interest
her in his troubles. The latest addition to
these had reached him half an hour before,
in the shape of the following letter :

Office of the " Anglo-saxon," May 188-.

'Dear Sir, — You have, no doubt, heard
already that Mr. Pilkington has resigned the
editorship of this journal, finding that his other
occupations are likely to prevent him from
discharging the duties connected with it ina
manner satisfactory to himself. Under the
new management some changes will be introduced
into the character and appearance of
the paper, with a view to increasing its populi



laity ; but we fully expect to retain our
customary list of contributors ; and I may say,
both on my own behalf and on that of the
proprietors, that we shall be glad to receive
from you such articles as you have been in
the habit of writing for Mr. Pilkington. As
regards remuneration, the proprietors think
that this has hitherto been calculated upon
rather too extravagant a scale, and it is probable
that a temporary diminution, at all
events, will be decided upon ; but I shall be
able to give you more definite information
as to this in a few days' time.

Believe me, dear sir, faithfully yours,
J. Hawkins,

'Ed. "Anglo-saxons"'

There was a good deal in this communication
which was highly displeasing to Adrian.
He had not been informed of Pilkington's
retirement, and he thought that he ought to

have been informed of it. He disliked Larkins
personally, and had no belief at all in his power
to improve the sale of the ' Anglo-saxon.' The
proposed reduction of pay was not altogether
agreeable. Finally, those references to the
supreme will and pleasure of the proprietors
struck him as being a trifle cool, seeing that
he happened to be himself one of them. ' I'll
be hanged if I'll be one of them much longer,
though ! ' he said decisively to himself, as he
walked up the Strand on the ensuing morning.
I didn't quite like to draw out my money
so long as Pilkington held on ; but I shall
make no bones about it with this fellow.'

On reaching the ' Anglo-saxon ' office, he
found the editorial chair already occupied
by its new tenant, a stout, vulgar-looking
man, with a shock of iron-grey hair, bushy
whiskers which met under his chin, and duty
nails.

How are you, Yidal ? ' called out this

unprepossessing person, cheerfully, as our hero
entered. ' Come to talk things over, eh ? '

How do you do, Mr. Larkins ? ' said
Adrian, laying a very slight emphasis upon
the prefix. ' I received your letter, and I was
sorry to hear of our loss.'

What, old Pilkington, do you mean ?
Well, between you and me and the post, he
ain't very much of a loss. It was about time
he went. He's a good fellow 'and a gentleman
all over, is Pilkington ; but I can't call to mind
that I ever met a much worse editor. Now
that we've got rid of him, we shall work the
paper differently — put a little more life into
it, and get some new blood. We mean to
keep on most of the old lot, though, all the
same.'

That is, if you can,' observed Adrian.
You mentioned something about lowering
your scale of payments.'

My good fellow, it's a case of needs must.

I should delight in seeing you all paid at the
rate of a guinea a word ; but it don't quite
run to it, you see. If any of the old contributors
aren't satisfied — why, it won't be a very
hard matter to replace 'em. I hope you ain't
going to quarrel with your bread and butter.'

I don't know as yet whether I shall continue
to write for you or not,' answered Adrian,
repressing a strong inclination to assault his
new chief ; ' but, independently of that, I have
an interest in the paper, I put 2,000/. into it
when it was first started, and I haven't received
a farthing of interest from that day to this. I
think I should now like to realise.'

Larkins frowned and pulled his whiskers.
Oh ! ' said he.

'I suppose,' continued Adrian interrogatively,
' that 1 can do that .? '

I suppose so. Oh yes ; you can do that, no
doubt. Only, if you do, you'll be the first that
has done it ; and I don't know that we should

care to have you writing for us under those
circumstances.'

I am quite prepared,' answered Adrian
smiHng, ' to accept my dismissal.'

That's what I call quarrelling with your
bread and butter. However, please yourself.
As I tell you, you'll be the first that has
thought fit to act in that way. Pilkington,
now — he hasn't said a word about taking out
his money, though he has left us for good and
all.'

Eeally,' said Adrian, ' I can see no reason
why I shouldn't withdraw from a bad investment
when I am convinced that it is a bad one.'

It all depends on how you look at it.
When a few friends join together to start a
paper it isn't quite the same thing as if they
went to their brokers and told them to purchase
securities. And as to bad investments, a newspaper
seldom becomes a paying investment from
the first,'

I had nothing to do with the starting of
the-'Anglo-Saxon,'" said Adrian. Am I to
understand that I shall be looked upon as a
traitor now if I ask for the 2,000/. which I can't
afford to lose ? '

Well, I don't know about that. I fancy
that Mr. Egerton and the others won't be best
pleased. You see, it isn't only the loss of a
couple of thousand pounds that they'll look at ;
it's the example. There are always plenty of
people ready enough to do a shabby thing, if
somebody will only give them a lead.'

'I consider that a most offensive expression,'
retorted Adrian hotly. 'I am not in
the habit of doing shabby things — nor of
allowing any one to call me shabby either.'

Well, well, Mr. Yidal, we needn't quarrel
over it. I'm not speaking for myself ; I'm only
telling you what I believe will be the opinion
of the proprietors. They naturally think that
you owe something to them, considering that

they took you up when you were a comparatively
unknown writer.'

I can't admit that I'm under any obligation
whatsoever to them,' said Adrian.

You may depend upon it that they think
you are, and if you throw them over now, when
the paper is passing through what one may calla
sort of crisis, they won't like it. Of course,
it's for you to decide what course you will
adopt. Personally, I should be sorry to lose
you as a contributor. With the money part of
the business I am only indirectly concerned;
but I don't think that, under any circumstances,
you would be in much danger of losing your
2,000/. Supposing that the worst came to the
worst, and the paper failed altogether, I should
doubt whether the gentlemen who have provided
the bulk of the funds would wish those
who have taken a smaller share in the undertaking
to be out of pocket. Mind you, I have
no authority for saying this ; I merely mention

it in confidence as my own impression. But
you may be sure that the paper will not fail, if
I can help it ; and I have had rather more experience
in this line than Pilkington.'

From all this Adrian perceived that Mr.
Larkins was very unwilling to give him his
money and let him go. That, perhaps, would
have made a prudent man all the more determined
to take his money and go ; yet the upshot
of the interview was, that both Mr. Yidal's
pen and his purse remained at the service of
the ' Anglo-saxon.' He had made too many
enemies of late, he thought : he had no wish to
add to their number Moreover, the representations
of Mr. Larkins were not without
their eject upon him.

Between ourselves, Mr. Yidal,' that worthy
remarked, ' what we want is not so much a high-class
literary journal as something that people
will buy at the bookstalls. We shall come out
weekly now, instead of monthly ; our price, of

course, will be sixpence ; we shall devote more
of our space to politics, and a good deal more
to personalities ; and we shall drop that stupid
practice of making our writers sign their articles.
I'll allow that Pilkington's notion was
more original ; but when originality don't pay-its
way, the best plan is to try being commonplace.
Don't you think so ? '

There seemed to be something in that.

CHAPTEE Xxxi.
clare's visitors.

Fae be it from me,' said Georgina, ' to speak
a word against those who give themselves upto
good works. I feel that I may slip upon a
piece of orange-peel in the street any day, and
be carried to the nearest hospital with a
broken leg ; and if that should happen to me,
I have no doubt that I should fully appreciate
the privilege of being nursed by a woman in
my own rank of life. Besides, I have a genuine
admiration for people who prefer being of some
service to humanity to sitting at home and
twirling their thumbs. But you will not get
me to admire a woman who spends the best
part of her time at the hospital merely in order

that she may have an excuse for crying her
eyes out when she comes home.'

It was on a fine afternoon in June that
Miss Vidal addressed these pointed remarks to
her sister-in-law. She was waiting for a friend
who had promised to call for her and take her
to the Park, and her costume was in all respects
worthy of the season and the occasion. The
summer had begun all of a sudden ; the boxes
outside the drawing-room windows had become
gay with flowers ; the hazy London sunshine
was flooding the air, and the water-carts were
going about the streets.

You are the less likely to be called upon
to admire her,' observed Clare, with a touch of
asperity, ' as it is in the last degree improbable
that such an idiot can exist.'

She does exist, though,' rejoined Georgina
imperturbably. ' I know that she exists,
because I have the honour of being acquainted

with her. To be more precise, she is sitting in
your chair at the present moment.'

I go to see the children at the hospital,'
said Clare, ' because I like it, and because I
believe they like having me. 'As for crying my
eyes out, I certainly never do any such thing.'

I will withdraw the words " crying her
eyes out," then, and will substitute " looking
heart-broken." You can't deny that you look
heart-broken ; and I don't care if you do deny
it, the fact remains. Isn't it nearly time that
all this came to an end ? '

All what .P '

This general discomfort. It can't be kept
up for ever, you know, and I have to propose
that we now eat humble pie. To do Adrian
justice, he looks quite as miserable as you do ;
and he hasn't the solace of a Children's
Hospital, remember.'

I thought,' said Clare, ' that we had agreed

to let this subject alone. I promised that I
would not mention Mr. De Wynt again if you
would only allow me to live my own life in my
own way.'

'I recollect your making that handsome
offer ; but I don't recollect accepting it. You
have my full leave to say anything that you
please about Mr. De Wynt ; only I should
prefer your saying something unflattering,
because I hear that he is likely to be married
to an heiress, whose property adjoins his, and I
will go so far as to admit that my feelings are
hurt. I don't think it is very pretty of him to
console himself with such rapidity.'

I don't believe it,' exclaimed Clare.

It is too true, 1 fear ; the report reached
me on excellent authority,' said Georgina.
But, after all, I don't want to be a dog in the
manger, and I trust the heiress will prove
satisfactory. Do you know,' she added presently,
looking out of the window beside which

she was seated, ' that you are about to have a
visitor ? That is quite an event in these days.
He is a man — rather a feeble sort of man,
judging by the time that he is taking to get out
of his hansom — still, not advanced in years. I
do believe it is Mr. Heriot ! '

Heriot indeed it was ; and the first sight of
him, as he entered the room, was somewhat of
a shock to Clare. She had been accustomed
for so long to hear her old friend spoken of as
being in a dying state, that she had come to
regard this as more or less of a figure of
speech ; but the moment that she saw his face
now she knew that he was far worse than he
had ever been before. She could not even ask
him about his health ; nor did he seem desirous
of being questioned, for he merely mentioned
that he had been ill all the winter, and had not
been able to get farther than Cannes ; after
which he immediately changed the subject.

Georgina was soon taken away by her

VOL. III. K

friend, and shortly afterwards Clare, chancing
to look up at Heriot, discovered that he was
scrutinising her with an earnestness which
brought a faint flush into her cheeks.

You have not been well since I saw you
last,' he said abruptly.

Not very,' she answered. ' It was — I
don't know — there was nothing really the
matter ; and I am quite myself again now.'

Heriot stroked his beard and made no
comment upon this assertion. ' And Adrian ? '
he resumed, after a minute or two. ' He has
not written to me for a long time. I suppose
that is a sign that he is very busy ? '

Yes ; he is always busy, I believe.' Clare
hesitated, and then went on : 'He is not
satisfied with his last book — perhaps you have
heard P I am afraid it has been a great disappointment
to him '

Ah, that is the inevitable consequence of
taking up art or literature as a calling. There

insist be disappointments every now and then ;
and poor Adrian is sure to take disappointments
to heart. Now tell me about yourself. Ha^'e
you become a confirmed Londoner yet ? '

Clare shook lier head. ' I shall never be
that ; but London suits me well enough. I go
out very little in the evening now, and during
the day I don't have many visitors.*

That sounds rather a negative way of
enjoying life,' Heriot remarked.

I suppose it does ; but negative enjoyment
is better than positive — discomfort ; and I
should never have acquired a taste for society.
I told you so last year, you know.'

I remember,' answered Heriot ; ' it was
at Lady St. Austell's garden party. By the
way, are the St. Austells in town ? '

I have no idea,' replied Clare ; and she
was conscious of a change in her voice which
could hardly fail to be perceptible to her interrogator.
By way of accounting for it, she

k2

was proceeding to explain, ' I don't like Lord
St. Austell,' when the door was thrown open,
and who should walk in but that estimable
nobleman himself !

Considering what were the circumstances
under which this honour had last been conferred
upon her, Clare certainly had not expected
that it would be repeated. She was
taken aback, and showed that she was so ; but
Lord St. Austell did not seem to notice her
embarrassment. He advanced with the smile
of a guest whose welcome is assured, saying
how delighted he was to see ]vii's. Yidal looking
so well — might he be allowed to add, looking
so charming ? Then he screwed his glass into
his eye, and was scarcely less delighted to
recognise his friend Mr. Heriot, also looking —
looking — er — as usual. It was perfectly impossible
to assert that Heriot was looking well ;
but Lord St. Austell went on, with creditable
readiness : — ' After a certain time of life, we

must be contented with looking as usual,
mustn't we ? '

At no period of my life,' remarked Heriot
quietly, ' have I been accused of presenting a
charming aspect to the eye ; but I humbly
trust that I have not always looked as if I had
one foot in the grave.'

Oh, you're all right — you wear as well
as any of us,' said Lord St. Austell, who disliked
allusions to the grave, and thought them in
very doubtful taste.

He sat doAvn and began to converse with
easy fluency, addressing his observations for the
most part to Clare, who found herself quite
unable to respond to them. She was so
obviously uncomfortable that Heriot took pity
upon her at length, and got up. Thereupon she
threw him an imploring glance, which he
rightly interpreted to mean that she did not
want to be left alone ^\\i\l Lord St. Austell ; so
he said to the latter, —

'Is that your brougham that I see at the
door ? Perhaps you will take pity on a sick
man and give me a lift home ? '

My dear fellow, by all means ! ' cried Lord
St. Austell with alacrity. ' The brougham
shall take you to your own door, and then you
can send it back for me. In the meantime, I
dare say Mrs. Vidal will give me a cup of her
excellent tea.'

This was not exactly what Heriot wanted.
Oh, I'll wait till you have had your tea,' he
said.

But Lord St Austell declared that he
couldn't think of such a thing. 'Now, Mrs.
Vidal, you must not ask him to stay ; he has
no business to be out so late. Invalids always
ought to be at home before six o'clock,' And
he caught Heriot by the arm and hurried him
out of the room before another word could be
said.

I think I disposed of our friend rather

cleverly,' he remarked on his return, seating
himself complacently in a chair close to his
hostess's elbow.

Clare made an inarticulate murmur. She
was really frightened of this leering old man ;
and indeed his next speech showed that her
alarm was not altogether groundless.

I have so hoped for this moment to
come ! ' he murmured. ' I can't tell you how
I have suffered since I saw you last. I have
had no peace.'

Indignation restored to Clare a measure of

o

courage. She rose deliberately and moved to
a chair a couple of yards away. ' I am sorry
to hear that,' she replied. ' What has been
the matter with you ? — gout ? '

Lord St. Austell jumped up and followed
her with an agility which sufficiently refuted
this cruel suggestion. ' Ah, don't pretend to
misunderstand me!' he pleaded, rather huskily
for, alas ! there comes a time of life when

the human voice refuses to take pathetic
modulations — ' you know why I have suffered;
you know that it is you who have made me
suffer. Not intentionally — ah, no ! you are too
angelic to inflict pain willingly upon any one ;
but '

I assure you that I am not at all angelic,'
interrupted Clare, ' and I can't imagine what
you mean by saying that I have inflicted pain
upon you. I — I don't want to know what
you mean,' she added hastily, perceiving that
Lord St. Austell was about to explain.

But I must tell \qm ! ' cried that susceptible
veteran. ' It is impossible to conceal any
longer the feelings of — er — of adoration with
which the sight of so much beauty and — er —
unhappiness has inspired me. Dearest Mrs.
Vidal, don't be unhappy any more. Your
husband has shown himself unworthy of you ;
but there is one who '

Please don't trouble yourself to say anymore,'

broke in Clare coldly. ' You are very
impertinent ; but I suppose that is because you
know no better.'

Now Lord St. Austell had often been called
impertinent before, and did not mind it in the
least. He regarded it, indeed, as a purely
conventional phrase, commonly employed by
ladies under certain circumstances, and no
more intended to be taken in a literal sense
than the dismissal by which it was just as
commonly followed. So with unabated confidence
he proceeded to make his next move,
and seizing Mrs. Yidal's hand, pressed it
fervently to his lips.

This was too much alike for Clare's temper
and her self-respect. 'Lord St. Austell,' she
exclaimed, ' if you were not such an old man —
such a very old man — I would ring the bell
and have you turned out of the house. As it
is, I can only suppose that you have become
imbecile. Is it possible that you can imngiiie

that any woman, whether married or smile,
could be in love with you ? — you ! I dare say
many people would not be able to help laughing
at you ; but to me you are too horribly repulsive
to be ludicrous. Of course, you well understand
that I cannot receive you again after this.'

She had risen to her feet, as had also Lord
St. Austell. His face had turned white, his
eyes were glittering and his lips quivering.
He seemed as if he were going to speak, but
controlled himself. The fact was that his
system of ethics, which permitted him to insult
a lady in the manner above described, forbade
him attack her with angry words. So he said
nothing at all — not even ' good-bye ' — but
took his hat and went away.

Clare, as soon as she was alone, sank down
upon the sofa and covered her face with her
hands in an agony of shame. It was bad
enough that any man should have presumed
to address her as Lord St. Austell had done ;

but it was almost worse that she should have
allowed herself to retort upon hin so coarsely.
Her cheeks burned when she thought of the
words that she had used in her haste, and she
felt that she could hardly have got rid of her
tormentor in a less dignified manner.

Yet, if she had but known it, she had
achieved a triumph of a certain kind ; for she
was the only woman who had ever succeeded
in putting Lord St. Austell into a genuine rage.

CHAPTER Xxxii.

AN END OF HIM.'

If Lord St. Austell very seldom permitted himself
to be thoroughly angry, he was frequently
out of sorts, and would snarl savagely at those
about him because the weather was bad, or
because he had received some troublesome
letters, or because of fifty trifling vexations for
which they were in no way responsible. His
wife, on the other hand, who was easily moved
to wrath and easily pacified, was too essentially
good-natured to indulge often in a fit of general
ill-temper. But these two people, like the rest
of the world, had their exceptional days ; and
it so chanced that while one of them was allowing
passion to get the better of him, as narrated

in the last chapter, the other was sitting in her
boudoir in Grosvenor Square, looking as cross
and sulky as any shrew.

Lady St. Austell had various reasons for
being at odds with Fate. To begin with, an
uncle of hers had chosen that inopportune time
of year to have a long illness, and die at the
end of it, so that she had only just been able to
return to the city that she loved. And as
though it were not bad enough to be defrauded
of half her season, and to have to wear mourning
(which was not becoming to her) for two
months, the dressmaker must needs send her
home half a dozen new frocks, of which four
could not, by any amount of squeezing and
struggling, be made to meet, while the remaining
two were disgraceful misfits. Such trials
were enough to upset anybody's equanimity ;
but over and above these Lady St. Austell had
that morning had the mortification of discovering
that there was something dreadfully wrong

with her hair, which was coming out in positive
handfuls ; and this had led her into an altercation
with her maid, in the course of which the
latter had addressed her most disrespectfully.

It was indeed rather of this maid's
behaviour than of her other annoyances that
she was thinking as she sat alone and idle, one
plump little hand supporting her cheek, while
the other beat the devil's tattoo upon the arm
of her chair. The woman had been disagreeably
familiar of late, and occasionally
insolent. She had taken her own way rather
too openly, and had even thrown out some
veiled hints that if she were interfered with,
she would know how to retaliate. Lady St.
Austell understood pretty well what these hints
meant, and had thought it better not to notice
them ; because it might, perhaps, be inconvenient
if Bowman were to divulge all that she
had seen and heard during the past six months
or so. But what was more disquieting was

that Bowman seemed to be aware of certain
things which she could not possibly have either
seen or heard. ' I wonder whether she reads my
letters ?' Lady St. Austell mused. ' I don't very
much care if she does. There are only a few
that I shouldn't like her to see, and they are
locked up fortunately.'

She glanced down at her chatelaine, upon
which she kept the little Branch key of the
despatch-box that held these compromising
documents, and suddenly started to her feet,
exclaiming, ' The wretch ! ' The key was gone ;
and, at the same moment, she remembered that
the first thing that she had seen, on waking
that morning, had been her despatch-box,
which — owing, no doubt, to the confusion
attendant upon the unpacking of a host of
trunks — had not yet been carried down to its
accustomed place on her writing-table. Without
losing a moment, she flew upstairs and
burst impetuously into her bedroom.

A shriek and a loud crash greeted her
entrance. There stood the guilty Susan, with
an open letter in her hand ; and there, at her
feet, lay the overturned despatch-box, its contents
scattered over the carpet.

Susan's previous experience of her mistress's
ways may have led her to expect a violent outbreak
; but if that was what she looked for, she
was disappointed.

Bowman,' said Lady St. Austell, quite
quietly, ' you will receive a month's wages, and
leave the house before night. You need not
apply to me for a character.'

Susan made for the door without replying.
But upon the threshold she halted and turned
round, with a malicious smile. ' I think, my
lady,' said she, 'you had better give me a
character, if I ask for it.'

You had better not ask for it,' replied
Lady St. Austell coldly. ' If you do, I shall
give you the character that you deserve.'

Oh, very well, my lady ; tliaDk you. I'll
do as much for you — and more. I'll give you
the character that you deserve without waiting
to be asked for it. You see, I've got something
here that's as good as a written character.'

It was the letter which she had been perusing
when she had been so unexpectedly interrupted,
and she now held it up between her
finger and thumb with a nod of triumph.

Lady St. Austell seemed alarmed. She
drew a step or two nearer to her maid, and said
appealingly, ' You wouldn't do that. Bowman !
You wouldn't really steal one of my letters and
give it to somebody else to read ! '

Not unless you force me to it, my lady.'

Not unless I force you to it ? ' repeated
Lady St. Austell musingly. She approached a
little closer still, her eyes were cast down, and
she appeared to be lost in thought. All of a
sudden she made a spring at the sheet of notepaper
wych was being waved menacingly over

VOL. III. L

her head, and snatched it out of the grasp of
the astonished Susan, who had not supposed
that anything of that kind was coming. ' Now
you can go. Bowman,' said she.

Susan cast a glance at the papers with which
the floor was strewn. It would have been easy
enough, perhaps, to possess herself of some of
them ; but whether she would not lose more
than she would gain by a personal conflict with
her employer seemed open to doubt. ' I'm
sure I don't want to make mischief, my lady,'
she said, ' but I can't afford to be ruined either.
Find me another place, and I'll hold my tongue.
Refuse me a character, and I speak to his
lordship this very day.'

Lady St. Austell was neither a very courageous
nor a very wise woman ; but she knew
better than to fall into such a trap as this.
You can say what you please and do what you
please,' she replied; 'but you will leave the
house to-night, as I told you. If you are not

gone by nine o'clock I shall send for a policeman
and give you in charge for breaking open
my despatch-box.'

It is not likely that Miss Bowman was much
frightened by the latter threat ; but Lady St.
Austell's coolness was not without its effect
upon her. She did as she was told, and went
away, merely remarking, ' Very good, my
lady. Don't say I didn't let you have your
choice, that's all.'

The moment that she was gone. Lady St.
Austell gathered up the scattered letters and
ran down with them to her boudoir. She sat
down, and sighed once or twice as she gazed
at the various samples of masculine handwriting
that lay on her lap. It grieved her to break
these few remaining links with the past, some
of which carried her back to a period when
she had owed allegiance to no aged lord, and
had dreamt of love in a cottage as a not
altogether impossible form of happiness. But

there was no time for indulging in sentimental
retrospection now. She had chosen a castle
in preference to a cottage, and it would never
do to let written evidence remain which might
deprive her of the residence that she had
selected. In truth, that result was hardly one
which could have been brought about by a
perusal of the correspondence in question ; and
had it been submitted to a jury of her ladyship's
fellow-countrymen, they would probably
have come to the perfectly just conclusion that
she had been nothing worse than indiscreet.
But Lady St. Austell, not being quite so sure
of that, and having an unreasoning dread of
her husband, thought it best to be upon the
safe side. She hastily dragged away the stand
of flowers in pots which concealed the fireplace,
and, casting the cherished relics into the
empty grate, applied a lighted match to them.

No one who has not tried to burn a bundle
of letters in a hurry can have any idea of the

time that it takes to consume a few dozen
sheets of paper. Quite half an hour elapsed
before Lady St. Austell threw herself back
in her chair, with flushed cheeks, muttering,
There ! Now, unless Johnny Spencer has
kept some of my notes — which I don't for a
moment suppose that that hag of a wife of his
will have allowed him to do — I think I am
pretty safe.'

Hardly had she breathed these words when
she was startled by a smart tap at the door,
and before she could say ' Come in,' she found
herself confronted with her husband. Decidedly,
it was not a lucky afternoon. Lord
St. Austell looked very black ; his customary
grin had vanished altogether ; his thin lips
were tightly set, and it was easy to see that he
was in one of his least amiable humours.

Burning letters ? ' he asked, ^vith a glance
at the shrivelled shreds of paper on the hearth.
An excellent plan. There is only one better

as far as I know, and that is not to receive
any;

'How can one help receiving letters?'
asked Lady St. Austell faintly.

I'm sure I don't know — I wish to goodness
I did ! But your letters, I should imagine, are
chiefly answers ; and I can give you as practical
a piece of advice about them as " Ask no
questions, and you'll be told no lies." Don't
write rubbish to young fools, and you won't
have to scorch your face till you look like a
cook by burning their replies on a hot summer
afternoon.'

How coarse you are ! ' cried Lady St.
Austell indignantly. ' I am not given to behaving
in the way that you describe.'

Are you not .? But I haven't asked an 3^
questions, you know, so you needn't — well,
you needn't answer. In point of fact, I don't
feel the slightest curiosity about the matter.

All the same, I wouldn't keep such a rascally
lady's-maid, if I were you.'

I am not going to keep her : I have just
dismissed her. Has she been speaking to you ? '

Yes, she has. Bounced out at me as I
was coming upstairs, and began to pour out
such a stream of venom that she positively
frightened me. I told her to go to blazes.'

Did you really ? ' exclaimed Lady St.
Austell gratefully. ' Thank you, Sidney ; you
acted like a gentleman.'

That appears to surprise you. Personally,
I am not certain that it isveryhke a gentleman
to use strong language to one's inferiors ; but
she ought not to have bounced at me. I can't
stand being bounced at. She is a good-looking
woman too,' continued his lordship meditatively.
' Cursed with a vile temper, though, I
should think.'

His own temper seemed to have improved

since he had entered the room ; but presently

his brow o-rew dark again. ' I don't often

interfere with you,' he resumed. ' I let you

choose your own acquaintances, as a rule. You

don't choose them wisely ; but that is rather

more your afHiir than mine. Every now and

then, however, I must claim a right of veto ;

and just now you will oblige me by striking

those Yidal people off your visiting list.'

By all means, if you wish it,' answered

Lady St. Austell, With the most heartless

alacrity. ' I had almost forgotten that we

knew them.'

Even Lord St. Austell could not help
smiling at this. ' The extraordinary part of it,'
he remarked, addressing himself to no one in
particular, ' is that she is speaking the simple
truth.'

Of course I am speaking the truth,' she
returned ; ' what is there so extraordinary in
that ? I generally do speak the truth, if you

only knew it. I told you nothing but the truth
that unfortunate day when you found me at
Mr. Vidal's house ; and if you imagine that I
have the least wish to see him again '

I assure you I have never indulged in any
speculations upon that point. All I know is
that I don't wish to see him again — or his wife
either. They are objectionable, vulgar sort of
people ; and we will not receive them anymore,
if you please.'

And with that Lord St. Austell, w^io, perhaps,
feared that if he lingered he might be
drawn into explanations which he would afterwards
regret, picked up his hat and stick, and
went off to his club.

On his way down Breton Street he encountered
a young man of amiable but somewhat
jaded aspect, who smiled and half stopped, as
though with the intention of accosting him ;
but perhaps he did not recognise this young
man, . for he passed on, staring blankly at

vacancy through his eye-glass, and Adrian,
proceeding towards Grosvenor Square, muttered,
' I wonder whether that was an intentional
cut ? '

Adrian had heard that Lady St. Austell
was in London, and, after some hesitation, he
had decided to call upon her. He had been
able to give himself various good reasons for so
doing. It would be an act of common politeness
; it would show her that the unpleasant
circumstances of their last meeting had not
lessened his friendly regard for her, and so
forth. But in reality he was going to Grosvenor
Square because he was anxious to see how
Lady St. Austell would receive him. Would
she express any regret for having got him into
trouble with his wife by her imprudence?
Would she show him the cold shoulder, as so
many others had tai^en to doing of latest
Above all, would she join in the general condemnation
of his new book ? There was little

enough danger of her offending him in this last
particular, seeing that she did not so much as
know that he had published another work ; but
such ignorance as that he may be pardoned for
not having foreseen, and he stepped on towards
his doom with more or less of cheerful anticipation.


He was admitted into the long drawing-room
which he knew so well, and was kept
waiting about a quarter of an hour before Lady
St. Austell appeared. When she did appear, it
was with an air of hurry and preoccupation.
She said, ' Oh, how do you do ? ' — and sitting
down, began to open and examine a number of
notes — invitations apparently — which she had
carried in with her, addressing a little perfunctory
conversation to her visitor while she did
so.

Presently she rose, crossed the room to her
writing-table, and began to scribble off replies.
May I trouble you to ring the bell ? ' she said ;

and when a servant presented himself, she
wanted to know wdiy the menu had not been
sent up to her. Let it be brought immediately.
And covers where to be laid for sixteen, not
fourteen. Had the flowers arrived from the
country? and had anybody unpacked them
yet? From time to lime she threw a remark
or a question over her shoulder at Adrian.
How hot it is to-day, is it not ? ' ' Can you
tell me what the day of the month is ? ' ' Have
you been long in London ? ' &c. &c.

All this evidently meant, ' I don't want
to be bothered with callers just now, and I
should be much obliged if you would take
yourself off.' It is never exactly agreeable to
receive such broad hits ; but if Adrian's mind
had been in its normal condition, he would
have retired gracefully, without showing any
foolish consciousness of having been snubbed.
His condition of mind, however, happened at

that time to be abnormal, and be could not
for the life of him help showing that he was
angry.

My name is Yidal, and I live in London,'
he said at length. ' I mention these facts
because you appear to have forgotten who
I am.'

Oh no,' answered Lady St. Austell, laughing
a little ; ' I remember you quite well.'

Then may I ask whether I have offended
you in any way ? Because, if you remember
me at all, you must remember that we were
rather friends a few months ago.'

Lady St. Austell laughed again. She would
have preferred that Mr. Yidal should go away
in a huff without demanding explanations ;
but the main thing, after all, was to get rid of
him, and she knew that she could do that in a
very few minutes.

I don't go in for undying friendships,' she
replied. 'When people begin to claim the

privileges of friends they invariably begin to be
bores.'

I should be sorry to be a bore,' said
Adrian, getting up, ' and I think I may safely
take upon myself to say that you will not find
me one ; for I shall certainly claim no privileges
of any sort or kind in future. You are
quite right to throw me overboard ; you only
follow the fashion. Everybody else is doing
the same.'

Can't you swim .^ ' asked Lady St. Austell,
with an air of innocent wonder.

'I am almost afraid not; but whether I
swim or sink, I suppose the ship will sail on
without me much as usual. Good-bye.'

Good-bye,' said Lady St. Austell sweetly ;
and thus Adrian left the house in Grosvenor
Square for the last time.

So there is an end of him mused her
ladyship after he had gone. ' I don't think I
regret him much. He was extremely good

looking ; but he didn't seem to know how to
use his advantages, and I was getting very
tired of him. I wonder what he meant by
people having thrown him overboard ? Perhaps
they are getting tired of him too. That would
not astonish me.'

CHAPTEE Xxxiii.

UNCONDITIONAL Surrender.

Among the oral traditions of the Yidal family
it is related that, at the tender age of five and
a half, Adrian, who had been guilty of some
infantile misdemeanour, was sentenced to a
period of solitary confinement extending over
several hours. At the expiration of the term
the nurse was sent to release the prisoner, and,
on approaching the apartment in which he was
locked up, was horrified at encountering a
strong smell of burning. ' I do believe that
wicked boy have gone and tumbled into the
fire, just to spite his mar ! ' she is reported to
have exclaimed. Adrian, however, had not
adopted quite so extreme a measure. He was

found seated on the liearthrug, in a state of
absolute nudity, pensively contemplating the
slow combustion of his boots, which, together
with his shirt, tunic, and other articles of
apparel, he had placed upon the red-hot coals,
and which by this time were reduced very
nearly to ashes. When Mrs. Yidal, in her cold
way, asked him what he had expected to gain
by this act of incendiarism, he replied to the
effect that his object had been twofold. In the
first place, he had wanted something to do ;
in the second, he had considered that the
punishment inflicted upon him was out of all
proportion to his offence, and as it had not
been in his power to lessen the former, he had
felt it incumbent upon him to establish an
equilibrium by increasing the latter. The
destruction of his clothing had seemed to him
the readiest means of achieving this end, and
he had destroyed his clothing accordingly.
More than once in later life Adrian acted

VOL. III. M

upon a similar principle, though perhaps without
acknowledging it so plainly either to himself
or to others. At the period of his history
to which we have now come, he was suffering
under a deep sense of wrong. Everybody had
treated him badly — his wife, his critics. Lady
St. Austell, the editor and proprietors of the
Anglo-saxon ' — in short, the world at large ;
and his nature forbade hai to sit down and
brood over unmerited ill-usage. It was no
discredit to him that he felt the same necessity
in his manhood as in his childhood to be doing
something ; but it was certainly unfortunate
that he had not grown out of the childish
notion that that something, in order to be at
all satisfactory, must be more or less naughty.

If he had been asked why at this time he
joined himself to a rather faster set than any
that he had hitherto been mixed up with, and
why he made himself conspicuous by his
attentions to certain ladies who were knojv^n

to delight in conspicuous attentions, he might
have replied that he wanted to drown care ;
but it may be assumed that the pain thus inflicted
upon his wife was not only known to
him, but, in a measure, agreeable. He had
spoken of being thrown overboard ; but in
reality he could still go to two or three parties
on most nights, if he was so inclined ; and it
suited him to do so. There was no longer any
question of Clare's accompanying him ; she, as
has been seen, had adopted another method
of dealing with care. Sometimes, however, he
had the honour of escorting his sister into the
world.

Georgina so far resembled her brother that
she was fond of society, and could not endure
inaction. Possibly, she may have resembled
him in the further particular of thinking
society the best cure for low suits. She was,
at all events, not so cheerful as she had been
the year before, and many of her friends noted

x2

a disposition towards silence and listlessness on
her part, which had never been among her
characteristics, and for which they were at a
loss to account.

A still more remarkable phenomenon —
nothing less, indeed, than a genuine and vivid
blush — might have been seen upon the
countenance of Miss Yidal one evening in July,
at a ball to which she and her brother, among
several hundreds of others, had been invited.
But as nobody could have expected to witness
such a manifestation, it probably escaped notice,
and was certainly not observed by the individual
who was responsible for it. He said,
How do you do. Miss Vidal .^ ' without any
apparent embarrassment, and Georgina quickly
recovered her self-possession.

So here you are back in London again,'
was her greeting.

Yes,' answered He Wynt, ' here I am
again ; and I want to talk to you, if I may.'

Georgina drew her skirts away from the
few extra inches of bench which they had been
covering. ' Sit down,' she said, ' and proceed.
What is your news ? '

It isn't exactly news,' answered De Wynt,
squeezing his small person into the space
cleared for him. ' That is, I am not sm^e how
far it may be news to you ; but most likely
you don't hear all that I do. You know your
sister-inlaw was awfully kind to me while you
were away.'

Was she ? I have no doubt you deserved
her kindness.'

I don't know about that ; but she was
kind to me. And your brother — well, he is
your brother.'

That is undeniable.'

So that even if I didn't care about him for
his own sake, I should for the sake of others ;

and I don't like to see him going to — to

may I speak plainly ? '

By all means. You don't like to see him
going to the devil.' •

I meant to say, the dogs ; but perhaps the
other expression comes nearer the truth.'

'And how are you going to prevent him
from reaching his destination, whatever it maybe?'


I don't suppose I can prevent him ; but
you might. I know you think I attach too
much importance to what the world says ; but
I do assure you that no man can afford to be
talked about as people are talking about Yidal
now. And that isn't all. I am afraid he is
coming to grief in other ways. I am afraid
he is getting indifferent about his work, and
running into debt. I don't apologise for repeating
what I hear to you, because I am sure
you won't misunderstand my motives. No
doubt a great part of it is not true ; but it is
safe to conclude that a small part is.'

As far as I can judge, it is all true,' said
Georgina, with a sigh.

Well, we know pretty well what the
meaning of it is, and the cause of it, and that
the whole thing could be set straight if only
one of two persons would give way just a little
bit. Now, I don't think there's much good in
speaking to Mrs. Yidal.'

I don't think there is,' agreed Georgina.
I made my little effort in that quarter, and
the result was discouraging.'

Heriot might help ; but he 's too ill to
leave his house, poor beggar, and Yidal won't
go near him. He told me so the other day,
when I looked him up. So you see, there
really is only you.'

And what am I to do ? ' inquired Georgina.

I shouldn't venture to suggest. I am
rather dull, as you know ; and you are very
clever.'

Clever as I am, I confess that I don't
quite see my way. If people will insist upon
marrying, I am afraid they must accept the
natural consequences of their folly.'

Quarrels and misunderstandings are not
the natural consequences of marriage,' said De
Wynt dogmatically.

Are they not ? Well, I never was married
myself, so I can only judge by appearances.
You, I hear, will soon be in a position to speak
authoritatively upon the point.'

What do you mean ? ' asked De Wynt.

It is currently reported that you are about
to be married — and to an heiress, too. I don't
mean to assert that marriages of that kind are
acts of folly.'

Whoever told you that I was going to be
married told you a — a deliberate falsehood ! '
cried De Wynt warmly. ' No one can possibly
have believed such a thing — you least of all.'

I did believe it, though ; why should I

not ? You will probably marry one of these
days.'

I don't know. It will depend upon
whether the only woman whom I shall ever
ask to marry me persists in refusing me or not.
But, as I was saying, marriages don't necessarily
bring about dissensions. When they do, it is
because there has been no previous understanding.
Now, I do think that y6u and I
understand one another perfectly. You have
your tastes and I have my little prejudices.
We should both have to give way to a certain
extent ; but I don't think we should mind that
at least, I am sure I should not. Only, I
should have to bar the South Sea Islands. When
one has a property to look after, one can't go
quite so far as that every winter.'

It seems to me,' remarked Georgina, ' that
we are getting very far indeed from the subject
that we started with.'

No, not so very ; because, supposing that

we could act together, we might see our friends
through their troubles, I think ; and I am
sure that I could be of use in many ways, if
only you would give me the right to be of
use.'

But, Mr. De Wynt, I have told you already
that I cannot accept your offer.'

You never gave me any reason for refusing
it, though. If you tell me that you don't care
enough about me to marry me, there's an end
of it, and I won't bother you any more ; but if
it is only that I happen to have come into a
little money '

You have been writing to Clare ! ' broke
in Georgina suspiciously.

Yes, I have ; I am not ashamed to confess
it ; and it was she who told me what you said
about not choosing to marry a man who had
just inherited a fortune. As though I should
be likely to think that you would accept me for
that reason ! Now, Miss Vidal, I have a right

to an honest answer. Can you or can't you
care for me ? '

You are very peremptory. A ball-room is
not the proper place for this sort of thing.'

Nobody is looking at us ; and I shouldn't
care if everybody was. Don't keep me in
suspense any longer. I have been very patient
I think you will allow that — and surely I
am entitled to an answer now.'

If you are quite convinced that it is my
duty to Adrian and Clare,' began Georgina.

It is your duty to yourself to answer Yes,
if you can,' said De Wynt earnestly. ' And
your duty to me too,' he added.

Ah, yes ; I foresee that I shall hear a good
deal about my duty to you. Well — I surrender,
then. It's an unconditional surrender. I haven't
the slightest belief in your give-and-take system,
you know. Of t^vo people, one must rule and
the other must be ruled ; and I suppose perhaps
you had better be the ruler. Give me your

orders, and I will humbly endeavour to execute
them.'

But De Wynt had no specific commands to
give ; and although the newly engaged pair did
not separate for another hour, it must be confessed
that at the end of that time they had
agreed upon nothing more precise than that it
behoved Georgina to ' speak to ' her brother.

CHAPTER Xxxviii.

THE Death OF :ME. WILBRAHAM.

Doubtless there are circumstances under
which it becomes a duty to inform some relative
or friend that he is conducting himself
like a perfect idiot ; but under no circumstances
can this duty be an agreeable one to
those who are at all likely to discharge themselves
of it with success. The people who
find satisfaction in it are precisely those who
might keep silence with advantage. Georgina's
announcement of her engagement brought
her such hearty congratulations from her
brother that she felt it impossible to attack
him then and there upon the subject of his
misdemeanours ; and when, a few days later

being urged thereto, by De Wynt — she
ventured upon a tentative remonstrance, he
checked her at once.

For Heaven's sake,' he exclaimed, ' don't
begin to scold ! I am not sure what are the
crimes that you suppose me to have been
guilty of ; but to save time, let us say that I
have broken the entire decalogue at a blow,
like Moses. Well, I don't repent. I am not
in a repentant humour, and you won't bring
me into one by telling me wdiat a poor opinion
you have of me. Eeally and truly, you had
better leave me alone.'

Georgina was very much inclined to agree
with him. She secretly sympathised far
more with her brother than with her sister-in-law,
and thought that the latter had brought
the greater part of her troubles upon herself.
As she did not deem it prudent to say this, she
held her tongue.

In the meantime, De Wynt was not the

only person \y1io was keeping a watchful eye
upon Adrian and his proceedings. From the
outset, Mr. Wilbraham had detested his successful
rival. Indeed, he" was a man to whom
successful rivals were very apt to be detestable,
and he would, no doubt, have discovered plenty
of defects in Adrian's character, if the latter had
not saved him the trouble of making any research
in that direction. When, therefore, he
saw Yidal dancing half the night through with
that naughty little Mrs. Black, or sitting in
dark corners with the more demure but not
less dangerous Mrs. White, and when at balls,
dinner-parties, and crushes, he looked in vain
for Vidal's wife, his blood began to boil.
Where was Mrs. Yidal ? Did that fellow lock
her up,eo that he might be the more free to carry
on his endless flirtations ? Did he ill-treat her ?
Did he beat her? Wilbraham believed that
the man was capable of it, His apprehensions
became at length so harassing to him that he

resolved to find out whether they were well
founded or not by the simple • expedient of
calling in Alexandra Gardens. Some men
might have felt this to be an act of doubtful
wisdom ; but it did not appear so to Wilbraham,
who would no more have thought of makings love
to his neighbour's wife than of picking his neighbour's
pocket, and who merely wished to be
assured that the woman who might have ruled
over his heart and household, was contented
with the destiny which she had chosen in preference
to that. What course he was prepared
to adopt in the contrary event, he had not
asked himself.

He found Clare at home and alone. She
was sitting beside her work-table, and as she
rose to receive him, laying down the doll which
she had been dressing, a faint blush mounted
into her cheeks. Evidently she was a little
surprised at seeing Wilbraham, who had never
until now chosen to darken her doors ; but she

did not express lier surprise in words, and it
was he who experienced a momentary embarrassment.
He accounted for his presence, after
a few minutes, by saying, —

I called to see whether you were still alive,
Mrs. Yidal. I meet your husband almost every
evening ; but you, never. Why do you hide
yourself from your friends in this way ? '

The few friends that I have in London
know where to find me,' answered Clare. ' I
am not particularly fond of parties.'

Yet you used to be fond of them. I don't
think anybody enjoyed balls more than you did
in Eome.'

Ah, that was a very long time ago.'

Two years.'

Well, two and a half. But two years maybe
a long time. It all depends what has happened
in the course of them. One can't
manage to enjoy dancing after one is married
quite as much as one did before.'

VOL. III. ^

Your husband ' began Wilbraham, but

stopped himself. It would be rather bad taste
to tell her that her husband did not find matrimony
incompatible with social diversions ; and
besides, she could hardly require to be informed
of that fact. ' You were ill nearly the whole
winter, were you not ? ' he asked abruptly.
You don't look very well now.'

Don't I ? I feel perfectly well,' answered
Clare ; ' and I was not really ill then. I am
afraid I am always ready to make the most of
any excuse for getting out of London.'

Of course you are ! ' cried Wilbraham
warmly ; ' and quite right too I A born and
bred Londoner may go on filling his lungs
with coal-smoke, and persuading himself that
he likes it ; but as for anybody who has been
accustomed to breathe air keeping well here, I
simply wouldn't believe him upon his oath if he
asserted such a thing. And why on earth
should you live in a place which you hate, and

which doesn't agree with you ? Yidal isn't a
doctor or a lawyer, or anything of that kind.
You ought to insist upon his moving into the
country.'

Wilbraham fastened eagerly upon this grievance,
in default of a better, and made himself
quite hot over it. His vehemence rather
amused Clare, who laid her work down upon
her knees and looked up at him with a smile.

Married people can't insist upon having
everything that they wish for,' she remarked:
Some day, perhaps, Mrs. Wilbraham will
insist upon spending the greater part of the
year in London ; and then what will you say ? '

I shall give in — or rather I should give in.
I don't say that I should like it ; but I would
let her have her own wav if I thought it would
make her happy, and I certainly shouldn't
hesitate for a moment if I thought her health
depended upon it. However, it does not
much matter, as the case will not arise.'

n2

Let US hope not. Still, it may.'
Excuse me, it cannot arise. I shall never
have an opportunity of showing my devotion
to Mrs. Wilbraham, for the excellent reason
that there never will be a Mrs. Wilbraham. I
think you must know that.'

Clare stitched on at her work without
replying, and presently Wilbraham asked, ' Do
you mind my saying so ? '

I would rather you did not talk like that,'
answered Clare, glancing up at him for a
moment. ' It — it seems such a pity.'

The pity of it all was very visible to her.
She could not help being touched by the
constancy of the man whom she had rejected,
and contrasting it with the inconstancy of the
man to whom she had given all the love that
she had to bestow. She could not help seeing
what a much happier thing it would have been
if she had been able to love the first instead of
the second — much happier, not only for Wil-abraham

and for her, but for Adrian himself, as
well as for the clan of young Irviness, whose
respective careers might have been made
smooth for them by a rich and powerful
brother-in-law. But she had not been able to
love Wilbraham ; she had not been able to
help loving Adrian ; and so everybody concerned
had been disappointed. There was no
use in thinking about it, still less in talking
about it — but it was a pity.

Wilbraham unconsciously echoed the last of
her thoughts, without having divined the preceding
ones. ' Yes, it's a pity,' he agreed ; ' but,
as you say, there's no use in talking about it.'

Apparently he did not find it easy to hit
upon any other theme of conversation, for he
sat for some time in silence, gazing at Clare,
who had resumed her occupation of putting
little naked dolls into decent clothing.

What are you going to do with those
things ? ' he asked at length.

With the dolls ? I am going to take then
to my children.'

Your children ? '

At the hospital, I mean. Did you know
that there was such a place as a Children's
Hospital in London ? I did not, until a short
time ago. Somehow one doesn't associate the
idea of suffering with children. Yet they do
suffer — some of them dreadfully ; and I think
the saddest part of it all is their patience.'

Poor little things ! ' said Wilbraham. ' Do
they want money at this hospital ? '

All hospitals want money,' answered Clare
smiling.

I'll remember. And so you take them
dolls and things. Do you go there often ? '

I manage to go there roost days. They
have got to know me now ; and I flatter myself
that some of them are disappointed when I
don't appear. I enjoy sitting with my children
much more than going to balls.'

Well, but that isn't quite natural,' remonstrated
Wilbraham. ' It's very good of you,
and just like you, to take pleasure in visiting
the sick ; but it ought not to be your only
pleasure. At your age you ought to like
amusement.'

But I don't, you see.'

That is just it ; that shows that there must
be something wrong. No one who was happy
at home would want to — to run off to a
hospital every day.'

This was assuming a little too much, and
Clare perceived that she had been imprudent
in allowing such an inference to be drawn. ' I
did not mean you to understand that I was
unhappy at home,' she said, with a slight
accent of displeasure. ' I don't know wh}- you
are so determined to take that for granted. I
remember that you said the same tiling to mea
year ago.'

*Yes, I know. I ought not to say it, I

suppose ; but I can't pretend that your happiness
is a matter of indifference to me. It was
not very likely that I should cease to care from
the moment that you married whether you were
happy or not. Can you tell me that you are ? '

You have no right to ask,' returned Clare.
Supposing that I were as miserable as you wish
me to make out, I certainly should not like to
confess it ; but you would put me into such
a position that I should be almost obliged to
confess it. The truth is that you can't believe
in the possibility of my being happy with anyone
except yourself. You made up your mind
from the first that my husband and I were not
suited to each other ; and when you discover
that he is fond of society, and that I am not,
you begin to triumph.'

This was rather hard upon poor Wilbraham ;
but Clare felt that she must be hard upon him
if she wished to preserve her self-respect. To
complain to him of Adrian would be disgraceful,

and to let him go away with the impression
that cause for complaint existed would be
scarcely less so.

Such, nevertheless, was the impression with
which he did go away. He accepted his rebuke
meekly enough. He apologised, and begged
Clare to forgive him ; but not the less was he
convinced that she was m martyr. He left the
house full of pity and anger, and with a bitter
sense of impotence. She had chosen her lot,
and neither he nor any one else could alter it.
That fellow would go on as he had begun — if
indeed he did not grow worse as he grew older
and the end of it would be that some fine
morning he would elope with one of the
married women to whom he was so fond of
paying court. Just the sort of thing that a
man of that description was bound to do sooner
or later !

I should dearly love to break his head for
him ! ' muttered Mr. Wilbraham as he strode

down Cromwell Road, brandishing his stick
and scowling fiercely at the surprised pedestrians
whom he met in that interminable
thoroughfare.

CHAPTEE XXXIX.

CHILL PENURY.

It is said by the experienced in such matters
that there can be no greater mistake than
altering the name of a newspaper or magazine
which has been for a certain time before the
public. According to this theory (which, if
correct, exhibits the intelligence of the ordinary
reader in a somewhat startling light), you may
change your politics, your editor, your writers,
and other trifling adjuncts without thereby
lessening your average sale, since those who
have been purchasers will continue to be purchasers
from mere force of habit ; but the
moment that you adopt a new title your publication
becomes a new one, and must fight its

way into popular recognition in the face of the
customary difficulties. Possibly, the proprietors
of the ' Anglo-saxon ' may have been advised to
this effect when they took to themselves a fresh
editor, revised their list of contributors, and
decided to bring their periodical out once a
week instead of once a month. If so, they
had perhaps omitted to take into account that
there may be just as much risk in retaining a
name associated with failure as in discarding
one which has hitherto been connected with
success. Be that as it may, the young ' Anglo-saxon
' could not be got to rise resplendent from
the ashes of the old. Country clubs and 
did not seem to care about it, the
railway traveller fought shy of it, and its contemporaries
did not welcome its appearance in
that brotherly spirit which the enlightened
mind is ever ready to display towards a rival.

Of course, there were various ways of
accounting for so discouraging a state of affairs.

The editor averred that the cold shade of Wilmington
still brooded over his paper ; Egerton
complained that the tone of the principal articles
was too flippant to please ; while Adrian
was inclined to attribute the small sales to the
invincible stupidity of the public, against which,
as we know, the gods themselves contend in vain.
But there could be no difference of opinion as to
the fact that the paper was not paying, had not
paid in the past, and showed little sign of paying
in the future. That being so, the time
seemed to have nearly come for singing its
requiem. And one disconsolate contributor
only sighed and murmured, ' I expected this,'
when he received a note from his chief briefly
informing him that the forthcoming number of
the ' Anglo-saxon ' would be its last.

Obviously, the very first thing to be ascertained
was what effect this collapse was likely
to have upon the pecuniary interests of the
humbler proprietors ; and Adrian promptly set

forth to seek out Mr. Larkins and question him
upon the point. For three days he sou,s>'ht him
in vain. Larkins was not at the office, he was
not at his club, nor could he be heard of at his
private residence at St. John's Wood, which
ultima Thule Adrian reconnoitred without
avail.

It really almost looks as if the man wanted
to keep out of my way ! ' he exclaimed, at last,
to Percy Kean, whom he had chanced upon in
the course of his peregrinations, and who
laughed and said, —

I don't know why he should want to keep
out of your way. You can't bully him, now
that he isn't your editor any more.'

I never did bully him ; it was he who
used to bully me. I am anxious to see him
now, because I happen to have invested 2,000/.
in his confounded paper, and I should like to
have them back, if quite convenient.'

Kean whistled. ' You don't say so ! I had

no idea you were such a — hem — public-spirited
fellow. But what are you going to do with
poor Larkins when you catch him? T don't
suppose you'll find your two thousand inside
him if you kill him and cut him open.'

Xo ; but he always managed the money, I
believe. At least, I used to be paid for my
articles by cheques bearing his signature.'

Oh ! Well, there may be a balance of
2,000/. at the bank for him to draw upon ; but
I shouldn't think it was over and above likely =
If I were you I should look up old Egerton.
That's your best chance.'

Adrian rather thought it was, though at the
same time it did not strike him that his best
chance was a particularly good one. However,
he betook himself to the house of mr. Egerton,
whom he found not only at home, but quite
ready to condole with him.

Upon my word, Vidal,' said he, ' I feel
quite ashamed when I think that it was I who

originally led you into joining this fiasco of an
Anglo-saxon." All I can say is that I honestly
believed I was doing you a good turn at the
time.'

I am sure you did.' answered Adrian.
You couldn't foresee that it would be a fiasco.'

No, by George ! nor that it would be
such an expensive one either. If I had — but
there's no use in grumbling about it. It's the
old story, you know — a fool and his money.
Well, I shall know better another time.'

You consider your money lost, then ? '

It's all spent, at any rate. In fact, I don't
know that I shall not have to spend a little
more, for we haven't finally squared up
accounts yet. I suppose it's all right ; but it
seems to me as if this paper must have been
utterly mismanaged.'

I put two thousand into it,' observed
Adrian mournfully.

Sorry to hear it. Pilkington tells me that
he did the same.'

I imagined from what he said that he had
put in more. It was he who persuaded me to
make the investment, though I was rather
unwilling to do so. But I did think that I
should at least be able to withdraw my money
when I wished.'

So you could, I suppose, so long as it was
there to be withdrawn. What was to prevent
you.^'

'Mr. Larkins prevented me. That is, he
represented that I should give offence if I left
you just at the time Ashen the paper was taking
a fresh start. And he gave me to understand
that the chief proprietors would not allow me
to incur any loss.'

If Larkins said that,' cried Egerton reddening,
' he said a most improper thing !
Larkins seems to think that he can take the
coats off our backs, and that we shall immediately
offer him our cloaks also. I am sincerely
sorry that you should have dropped
VOL. Ill,

money ; but if I make myself responsible for
other people's losses in addition to my own,
may I be part proprietor of an infernal silly
newspaper for the rest of my days ! You
must see yourself that such demands are preposterous.'


'I am quite aware that I have no legal
claim,' began Adrian.

Nor any moral claim either, that I can
see.'

Well, I hardly know as to that. I must
say that Mr. Larkins warned me that he was
speaking without authority ; but he certainly
led me to believe that I might safely leave my
money where it was, and upon the strength of
that I did leave it where it was.'

Well,' said Egerton, who was walking
about the room with his hands in his pockets,
I'll be hanged if I see it ! You have a case
against Lambkins, I allow ; but why didn't you
come to me and ask whether we were really

such fools as he made us out ? You see, if we
indemnified you, we couldn't well refuse to
indemnify Pilkington, and, for anything that
I know, half a dozen others into the bargain.
It's rather too much to expect of us that we
should do that.'

Adrian could not but feel that it was. He
went away with the melancholy conviction that
he had not only failed in the object of his visit,
but had left a disagreeable impression behind
him. Though still a young man, he had lived
long enough in the world to be aware that
those who have been the victims of sharp
practice should never proclaim themselves
victims. Enmity may be obtained in that way,
and sometimes contempt ; but restitution never.
Moreover, he had caused Egerton to lose his
temper and speak sharply ; and that is an
offence which no man can easily forgive.

These reflections kept our luckless hero
company as he wended his way westwards, and



very poor company he found them. It
annoyed Mm to think that he had behaved in
an undignified manner ; but a momentary loss
of dignity was not, after all, so bad as the
permanent loss of 2,000/. ; and this, again, was
but a trifle in comparison with the sacrifices
which he knew that he must shortly make in
order to meet his liabilities. When to these
causes for unhappiness he added the failure of
his last novel, the coldness of many of his
friends, and last, not least, Clare's stubborn
resentment, he felt that he was indeed justified
in calling himself a miserable man. He would
have to go home and tell his wife that their
style of living must be reduced. Probably
they would be obliged to move into a smaller
house ; certainly they would have to give up
such superfluous luxuries as entertaining their
friends at dinner and keeping a man-servant.
The whole prospect was gloomy enough. ' I
might as well die, and have done with it ! '

inwardly ejaculated Adrian in one of those
outbursts of petulance which had lately become
common with him.

It was getting late in the afternoon when
he entered the Park, and, striking across it,
saw in the distance that slowly flowing stream
of carriages which, at a certain season of the
year, may be taken as fairly representative of
the wealth and aristocracy of England. ' Goodbye
! ' he murmured regretfully, as he gazed
at the colour and glitter of that significant
procession. To him it was significant ; to him
it was the expression of a life which he loved,
and which he was leaving. Fashionable society
had treated him very kindly, and had endeared
itself to him, not because he was infected either
by the old form of snobbishness which worships
a coronet, or by the baser form of modern
snobbishness which bows down before a full
purse, but because well-bred people are more
agreeable to associate with than those who are

not well-bred, and because even rich people
are able to surround themselves v^ith refinements
which are denied to the poor. Adrian
thoroughly appreciated these refinements ; he
liked to have pretty things about him, to look
at pretty faces and listen to soft voices, and to
sit down to dinner at tables made beautiful by
cunning floral decoration. But now there
must be an end of all that. What his future
life would be like, he could only conjecture
dimly ; but that it would have to be ruled for
some time to come by a rigid economy was
certain, and every pleasure that entailed expenditure
must be sternly rejected. The one
solace to which he was able to look forward
was hard work ; and even hard work can give
little comfort to a man who has begun to
doubt his powers.

Now, it is perfectly possible to walk along
the streets of London, lost in a sombre reverie
and pensively swinging your umbrella between

your finger and thumb, so long as you steer
straight ahead and remember the rule of the
road for foot-passengers ; but any sudden
change of course demands a more careful lookout
; and of this Adrian was made aware
when, on turning a sharp corner in the neighbourhood
of Cromwell Eoad, he came violently
into collision nth a bio man who was twirling
a big stick.

The stick caught Adrian's umbrella and
sent it flying into the middle of the road ; the
man nearly knocked Adrian himself off his legs,
and then, with great presence of mind, called
out, ' Why the devil don't you look where you
are going, sir ? '

My dear Wilbraham,' remonstrated Adrian
mildly, ' is that the tone of voice in which to
address a man whose best umbrella you have
just deposited in a sea of mud ? '

Oh, how do you do, Vidal ? I didn't
know it was you,' said the other. ' Beg your

pardon, I'm sure. It was your own fault, all
the same.'

I suppose so,' observed Adrian meekly ;
I notice that most things are my fault. I
much resemble the lamb who couldn't help
interfering with the wolf's water-supply even
though he did drink lower down the stream.'

Wilbraham snorted, without making any
articulate response.

He was not by nature a quarrelsome man,
but he was in a very quarrelsome mood ; and
at that moment nothing would have afforded
him greater delight than to roll Adrian over
in the mud beside his umbrella. As this was
not practicable, he very foolishly determined
to relieve his feelings by giving Yidal a piece
of his mind.

I have just been at yoiu- house,' he began,
in a decidedly aggressive tone.

'Yes?' said Adrian. 'I am sorry I was
not at home ; but I hope you saw Mrs. Vidal.'

I did ; and I was shocked to see her
looking so pale and ill.'

Adrian's brows drew together. ' I don't
think you had any occasion for being shocked,'
he remarked. ' My wife is quite well.'

I thought her looking very pale and ill,'
repeated Wilbraham doggedly. ' I'm not surprised
at it either. Are you aware that she
goes every day of her life to a hospital, where
she may catch scarlet fever, or measles, or — or
goodness knows what ? How you can allow
her to run such risks I can't understand ! '

Infectious cases are not taken at the
hospital which you speak of,' answered Adrian
very quietly ; ' and will you excuse my adding
that I don't care about being told what my
duty to my wife is ? ' He saw that the other
meant to pick a quarrel with him, and he was
not himself in the humour to put up with much
impertinence.

I dare say you don't,' retorted Wilbraham,

with a shore laugh. ' No ; I should think
your duty to your wife would be about the
last thing you would like to be told of.'

May I ask what you mean by that ? '

Certainly you may ; and I'll answer you
too. I mean that it isn't doing your duty to
your wife to keep her mewed up at home while
you go larking about all over the place. I
mean that it isn't doing your duty to your wife
to make love to every silly woman you meet.
That's what I mean.'

As that description does not apply to me,'
observed Adrian, still preserving a calm exterior,
' I don't know that I need notice it.'

You can notice it or not, as you please,'
returned Wilbraham, evidently disappointed.
If you think the cap don't fit you, you had
better consult Mrs. Vidal. Perhaps she may
take a different view.'

What ! ' exclaimed Adrian hotly, ' do
you mean to say that she '

I don't mean to say another word about
the matter, except that I consider that the cap
fits. And if you ask me my personal opinion
of a fellow who acts in that way, I haven't the
least objection to telling you that I look upon
him as a blackguard.'

What in the world is to be done with a
man who stops you in a public thoroughfare
and calls you a blackguard P A Frenchman,
of course, would have no difficulty in answering
the question ; but an Englishman, to whom
custom has denied the use of pistol and small-sword,
has little choice between passing on
with the ignoble retort of 'You're another,'
and doing as Adrian did, and hitting out with
his left.

The objections to this latter course are
obvious, and they become greatly increased if
you unfortunately fail to knock your antagonist
down. Wilbraham, who was not unskilled in
the art of self-defence, avoided the blow,

dropped his stick, and threw himself into a
fighting attitude ; and a most merciful thing
it was, both for the respectable member of
Parliament and for the distinguished literary
man concerned, that Police Constable Z 99
came round the corner at this juncture with
measured tread, and, taking in the situation at
a glance, interposed his bulky person between
the combatants.

'Now then! — now then!' said he; 'just
stop that, will yer ! A couple o' gents like
you ! — you ought to know better. Now, are
you again' to walk off quiet, or would you
rather come along o' me to the service
station ? '

Everybody knows the effect of a pinch of
snuff upon two dogs who have fastened on one
another. However enraged they may be,
however intrepid, they must needs leave go in
order to sneeze ; and it frequently happens
that, having sneezed, they will trot away in

opposite directions to think things over.
Honour has been satisfied, and a fight which
ends in a draw is very nearly as good as a
victory. It was thus that Messrs. Wilbraham
and Yidal went their several ways without
exchanging another word or look, and thus
that the readers of the daily papers were defrauded
of a delightful bit of scandal.

CHAPTEE XL.
Adrian's last attempt.

Adrian walked home in a white heat, and his
anger was only to a small extent against
Wilbraham. The man had insulted him grossly
and stupidly, and he had done what he could
to avenge the insult. If he had not exactly succeeded
in washing it out in blood, that did not
signify so very much, after all. What hurt him
far more than anything that Wilbraham could
say was the thought that Clare had complained
of her lot to an outsider. Had he been less
incensed, he would have known that to complain
to an outsider was about the last thing that she
was likely to do ; but he had not all his wits
about him, and he was under the impression

that Wilbraham had given himself out as being
in some sort ]airs. Vidal's spokesman as well asher
champion. That was the last straw ! It
was rather hard that, with the sense of his
wrongs strong upon him, he should have to go
straight to Clare and make a humiliating confession
; but there was no help for it — the confession
must be made. To confine himself to
the bare announcement that he had been extravagant,
and must retrench, would' — though
disagreeable enough — be plain sailing. Many
a man is compelled to make such announcements
to his wife ; and she, if she be worthy of the
name of wife, will be pretty sure to try and
console him, instead of reproaching him. But
Adrian rather doubted whether he would be able
to stop there, and doubted still more whether
anything would be gained by proceeding
farther. He bitterly regretted now that he had
put himself in the wrong by pretending to flirt
with women whom he neither liked nor respected.

If he accused Clare of having traduced him
to a third person, she would have an answer
ready to which it might not be easy to find a
rejoinder ; for the legal maxim of ' the greater
the truth, the greater the libel,' is one which
has never yet commended itself to feminine
minds. On reaching Alexandra Gardens he
turned and walked back for some distance, and
then turned again, debating with himself
whether he should tell Clare of his encounter
with Wilbraham or not ; and when at length
he entered his house he had reached no decision.


He had still several hours in which to cool
down and consider himself; for he found
Georgina in the drawing-room, and presently
De Wynt, who had been asked to dine, came
in. Unfortunately, however, the presence of
De Wynt did not serve to soothe Adrian's
irritated nerves. Why is it that, during the
interval which separates betrothal from marriage,

ninety-nine couples out of a hundred
become a standing affliction to all who are
forced to dwell under the same roof with them?
Why are they for ever exchanging meaning
glances? Why must they needs indulge in
mute demonstrations which everybody in the
room sees perfectly plainly, but which they
absurdly assume to be visible only to themselves?
What strong delusion possesses them, that they
seem to take a positive pride in conduct which
they would ridicule and despise in anybody else ?
A happy thing it is for them that they speedily
forget this period of insanity — forget it as we
have all forgotten the time when we were red
and squalling infants. But those who saw us
as infants do not forget the circumstance.
They may forget a good deal about us, but
they never forget that ; and never fail to remind
us of it. Nor is the behaviour of engaged
lovers ever forgotten by those unfortunates who

VOL. III. P

have chanced to be shut up in the house with
them for a few days. Let young lovers bear
this truth in mind, and tremble.

The worst of it is that age would seem to
be no safeguard against the above-mentioned
malady. Georgina and De Wynt — neither of
whom was in the first blush of youth — were
quite as ridiculous as any boy and girl ; and
even Clare, heartily as she rejoiced in the engagement
which she had done her best to bring
about, was obliged to admit that they were not
the best of company at this time. De Wynt
was by far the greater offender of the two.
Georgina, true to her principle of self-replacement,
simply did what he told her, and
appeared to delight in this unwonted attitude of
compliance ; but he — wli ether because he wished
to indemnify himself for many years of sober
common sense, or because he really was not
responsible for his actions — went on in a way
which was found very trying by his future

brother-in-law, and which did little credit to
his reputation for tact.

'I say, Yidal, you're not really busy just
now ; what should you say to our giving ourselves
a three or fridays holiday on the
river?' he began, in a sort of ' 
' tone, as soon as he had taken
his place at the dinner-table. ' We would take
it easy, you know, you and I pulling, and one
of the ladies steering for us ; and whenever we
thought we had had enough work, we could
stop a night at one of those jolly little riverside
inns. Don't you think that's a first-rate idea ? '

I dare say it is,' answered Adrian shortly ;
but unfortunately I couldn't manage to get
away at present.'

Oh, bosh ! ' returned De Wynt ; ' you can
if you choose. — Mrs. Vidal, you get him to
come. He won't refuse you.'

Clare said, ' I doubt whether either of you
would be equal to the exertion of pulling up

p2

stream for several days. Besides, it might come
on to rain.'

But De Wynt was not to be discouraged.
He now turned to Georgina, and, with one
of those pregnant glances which have been
alluded to above as characteristic of the
betrothed lover, persisted : — ' We should all
enjoy it. You would, wouldn't you ? And so
would Mrs. Vidal — and so would Vidal, really.
They only want to be stirred uj). Do use your
eloquence upon them.'

I think it would be great fun,' responded
the submissive Georgina.

Thereupon Adrian lost patience and exclaimed,
' It would, indeed ! We should be a
gay and frolicsome party. Only, as I can't
possibly go, I am afraid we shall have to
content ourselves with keeping up our usual
flow of uproarious jollity at home.'

He knew perfectly well what De Wynt was
driving at, and was not ungrateful to the little

man, whose good intentions he recognised ;
but it was rather exasperating to be treated as
though he and his wife were a couple of children
who had had a tiff, and must be reconciled
by older and wiser persons.

De Wynt was silenced for the time being ;
but he returned to the charge repeatedly in the
course of the evening, employing all kinds of
transparent stratagems to get Clare and Adrian
to speak to one another, suggesting various
absurd projects, and accepting the snubs which
he thus brought down upon himself with the
most inexorable good humour.

Towards eleven o'clock he rose to depart.
Adrian, as in duty bound, begged him to stay
a little long-er and smoke a ciofar, trusting that
the invitation would not be accepted, yet experiencing
a slight chill of disappointment when
it was declined. Most of us, as we stand
upon the dentist's door-step, have just the
shadow of a faint hope that he may not be at

home ;. but he always is at home, and we should
be justly indignant with him if he were not.
By the time that Adrian had shut the front
door behind his guest he had overcome his
momentary longing for a reprieve, and only
wished to get through the coming bad quarter
of an hour as speedily as might be. He walked
back to the foot of the staircase and called to
Clare, who was just preparing to ascend to her
bedroom.

Would you mind coming into the study fora
few minutes ? ' he asked.

She looked a little startled, he thought ; but
she turned at once and came down. Presently
she followed him into the little room, which
was but partially lighted by the shaded lamp
upon the writing-table, and silently awaited his
pleasure. Neither of them sat down.

I wanted to tell you,' Adrian began, looking
away from her as he spoke, ' that I have
sot into difficulties. I have made much less

this year than I expected to make ; oiir expenses
have been heavier than I thought they
would be, and to-day I heard of the loss of
some money which I had invested in the
*' Anglo-saxon." The upshot of it all is that we
shall have to make a change in our manner
of living.'

He glanced quickly at Clare when he had
made this brief statement ; but she did not
reply, nor did she seem to be in any way
moved.

I am very sorry about it,' he went on,
after a pause. ' I have been unlucky ; but I
have been imprudent too, and I certainly owe
you an apology. Perhaps I ought also to
apologise for having written a stupid book
which nobody will buy. I might have known
that I am not the sort of writer to make
money.'

It will be easy to economise,' said Clare
quietly.

Adrian was not sure that he quite liked
this indifference. ' It will be necessary ; I
don't know about it's being easy,' he observed.
We shall have to make sacrifices — to give up
this house, for instance.'

Then for the first time Clare exhibited some
sign of interest. ' Shall we go away from
London ? ' she asked.

Is that the only thing that you care about ? '
cried Adrian irritably. ' No ; I don't suppose
we shall leave London. I don't think it would
be wise to do so ; I don't see any reason for
our doing so. Why should we ? '

I don't like London.'

'Well,' said Adrian, subduing his impatience,
that is a reason, no doubt. The only question
is, would you be any happier in the
country ? You are not happy here ; I am quite
aware of that.'

To this Clare made no reply,

Yet you might be. At least, I think you

might. To live always with a man whom you
distrust and suspect — that is enough to make
any one unhappy. But is it so certain that you
are right to distrust and suspect me .^ Just ask
yourself the question. Why have we been
strangers all this long, weary time ? Has it been
worth while ? Has there been any real cause
for it?'

Clare's lips were quivering, but she did not
open them. Her eyes were cast down upon her
fingers, which she was intertwining nervously.
The time had been long and weary to her— ^
more so, perhaps, than it had been to him ; yet
she could not say that she had had no cause
to distrust him ; and therefore it seemed best
to say nothing.

Let us go back to the beginning,' resumed
Adrian. ' It all began — did it not ? — with your
dislike of Lady St. Austell. You saw that she
was a flirt, and you couldn't trust me with her.
You did not see that, besides being a flirt, she

was a stout, middle-aged woman ; though that
might have reassured you, even if you could
feel no confidence in me. And then, most
unfortunately, you found her in the house.
You wouldn't listen to my explanations ; and it
was hopeless to try and force them upon you.
Besides, I confess that I was angry, as I really
think that I had a right to be. But one can't
go on being angry for ever — at least, I can't.
The explanation was simple enough. Lady St.
Austell came here, not for the pleasure of seeing
me, but to scandalise Lord Blaise, who had
taken upon himself to rebuke her ; and when
she came I could hardly send her away. That
is the whole truth ; I hope you believe it.'

He waited for some time ; but, as Clare
still continued silent, he repeated, in a somewhat
sharper tone, ' Do you or do you not believe
that I never cared a brass farthing for Lady St.
Austell ? '

Clare had turned very pale. She remembered

the scene wliicli she had witnessed in Kensington
Gardens ; of that, no explanation was
possible. She could forgive her husband, but
to tell a lie or to acquiesce in one was beyond
her. ' I want to believe you ! ' she exclaimed,
spreading out her hands with a despairing
gesture ; ' but I can't ! Adrian, I would so much
rather — so much, much rather that you told
me the truth ! '

I have told you the truth,' answered
Adrian coldly, ' and you have refused to
believe me. You need not be afraid that I
shall make any more attempts. I have already
acknowledged that I have been very much to
blame in having too extravagantly. In addition
to that, I have latterly — for reasons which you
may or may not understand — gone more into
society than a married man ought to do without
his wife. Neither of these offences will be
repeated, and I cannot accuse myself of having
failed in my duty to you in any other respect.

I have only one thing more to say. I must request
that any future complaint which you may
have to make of my conduct may be made tome,
and not to Mr. Wilbraham, or to other
persons of your acquaintance.'

I never complained to Mr. Wilbraham ! '
cried Clare, suddenly bursting into tears. ' How
could you — how could you think '

Adrian smiled coldly. ' You doubted my
word just now,' he said. 'Excuse me if I take
the liberty of doubting yours. For such a very
distrustful person, you seem to choose your
confidants rather rashly, and I should recommend,
both for my sake and your own, that in
future you should trust nobody.'

After this there was silence for a few
minutes, broken only by Clare's stifled sobs ;
then Adrian held the door open for her, and
she passed out without another word.

CHAPTEE XLI.

THE RESULT OF AN ACCIDENT.

Adrian, when he was once more alone, and
could review the incidents of the painful interview
just described, congratulated himself in
that he had at least kept his temper. He might
have done more wisely to lose it. The impression
which Clare carried away with her was
that her husband cared very little whether their
quarrel was made up or not. His language
had been in some measure conciliatory, but it
had not been in the least affectionate ; and his
object, Clare thought, had been rather to place
her in the wrong than to convince her that he
loved her still.

So far he had been successful ; for he had

certainly made it appear as though she were in
the wrong. Yet in his heart he must have
known that it was not so. Before her eyes he
had embraced Lady St. Austell, and to ask her
after that to believe that he had never cared a
brass farthing for the woman was to make too
large a demand upon her credulity. If he had
confessed, she could have forgiven him — not very
easily, perhaps, since forgiveness of such injuries
did not come easily to her ; still, she could have
forgiven him. But to make a fresh start upon
the false assumption that she had been mistaken
all along was neither possible nor desirable. The
accusation which Adrian lead brought against
her of having bemoaned her fate to Mr. Wil-abraham
did not trouble her long, nor did she
even feel much curiosity as to the source whence
he had derived his information. At any other
time she would have been more distressed by
it ; but now it seemed a little thing in comparison
with the dreadful certainty which she felt

that she and her husband could never again be
to each other what they had once been.

She lay awake through the greater part of
the night, turning it all over in her mind ; and
always the same conclusion stared her in the
face — it would be better that they should part.
The argument which has kept many a woman
from leaving an unhappy home was not present in
her case. She had no children ; no one would
suffer by her setting Adrian free to follow his
own devices ; she herself would be the happier
in some ways for having done so, and it was
beyond all question that he would be. For her
own future lie had a plan which, vague at
first, developed gradually into a fixed purpose.
Her experience at the Children's Hospital had
shown her that she possessed some of the
qualities of a good sick nurse, and such technical
training as she would need to enable her to
adopt nursing as an occupation would, she
thought, be acquired without difficulty. Sister

Jane would doubtless be willing to give her
information and assistance.

On the following morning Adrian went out
early, leaving word that he would not be home
again before dinner-time, and Georgina also departed
for Brighton, whither she had been summoned
to receive the formal congratulations of
her mother, and to be presented with certain
articles of jewellery, 'for which,' as Mrs. Vidal
the elder wrote, with the graciousness which distinguished
her, ' I have no further use.' Clare,
being thus left alone, had ample leisure for considering
her scheme, and the more she thought of
it the more advisable it seemed to her to put it
into practice without delay. Every one knows
the value of an accomplished fact ; and it seemed
to her that if she were to pack up her clothes
quietly, leave her home, and write to her
husband to inform him of the step that she had
taken, she would forestall a good deal of the
opposition which was to be expected both from

ih and from her own family. The only point
as to which she felt a little uncertain was
whether Sister Jane would be able and disposed
to give her shelter under such circumstances.


She was sitting in the dining-room, making
a pretence of eating the luncheon for which she
had no appetite, and trying to make up her
mind that she would go and consult her friend
that afternoon, when, as if in answer to her
half-formed intention, the following telegram
from Sister Jane herself was dehyered to her :

Come to me here, at once, if you can. I
want particularly to see you.' The address
given was that of the hospital served by the
society to which Sister Jane belonged.

Clare was on her way in less than ten
minutes. She was too much preoccupied with
her own affairs to think of anything else during
the greater part of the long drive, and it was
only towards the end of it that she began to

VOL. III. Q

wonder why she lead been so hastily summoned.
The explanation which she received
on reaching her destination mystified her completely.


The poor woman will be very glad to
hear that you have come,' Sister Jane said.
She has been asking for you incessantly since
the morning.'

What poor woman ? ' asked Clare. ' You
did not say anything about her in your telegram.'


Did I not ? Her name is Susan Bowman.
It is an accident case. She was run over in
the street and brought in here a few days

ago.

I never heard of her that I can remember.'
No ; she said you probably would not
know her by name, although she knows you
very well, and has something which she is
anxious to tell you. Her great fear has been
that you would arrive too late.'

Is she dying, then ? ' inquired Clare.

Oh, yes,' answered the other, in her quiet,
placid way. ' Nothing could be done for her.
She has sustained internal injuries and has
suffered a good deal of pain, poor thing ; but that
is over now. Indeed, I think mortification has
set in. But you need not be afraid of seeing her,'
she added ; ' there is nothing to shock you.'

'I should not be afraid in any case,' returned
Clare, who had her own reasons for
wishing to show that she had no timid shrinking
from unpleasant sights ; ' only I cannot
imagine who she can be or why she wants to
see me.'

Well, will you come and ask her ? ' said
Sister Jane. And she led the way up the broad
stone staircase, Clare following.

A woman with a deadly pale face and large
black eyes, which opened slowly and fixed
themselves with a steady lack-lustre gaze upon
her visitor — a woman who must have been

Q 2

handsome a few days ago Perhaps the first

apprehension which came into Clare's mind was
not unnatural ; for there is no denying that she
was, as Adrian had asserted, very easily made
suspicious. She was upon the point of saying
that she would rather not be told anything that
it might be better for her not to be told, when
suddenly the name of Susan Bowman seemed
to stir some faint reverberation in her memory.

Have I not heard my mother speak of
you ? ' she asked.

The woman made a sign of assent. ' I told
her a pack of les,' she said, bringing out the
words slowly and with difficulty; 'but that
hasn't done her any harm, I suppose. And
her ladyship sent me away without a character.'


'Don't trouble yourself about it,' said Clare
gently.

Susan smiled. 'That don't trouble me.
But I've got to die, they tell me, and I thought

I'd see you first and let you know of something
that you'll be pleased to hear. It wasn't worth
taking so much trouble over a bit of work to
unpick it all as soon as it was done ; but I don't
seem as if I could get out of the world comfortably
any other way, somehow. It's lucky for
you that that 'bus-driver knocked me over.'
She paused for a moment, and then added, * It
wasn't quite the fair thing to make you suffer,
anyway ; for you've never done me a bad
turn.'

Why should I ? ' asked Clare wonderingly.

Ah ! — but I did you a bad turn, I can tell
you. It was I sent you those two letters about
your husband.'

Clare's cheeks became pink. ' I ought not
to have taken any notice of them,' she said.
And — and I dare say you meant them kindly.'

Not me ! ' returned the other, with the
ghost of a laugh. ' Xo ; I didn't owe you any
kindness, and that's the truth. I had mown

reasons — may be they were bad ones. You
were ready enough to believe a he, though.'

Was it a he ? ' exclaimed Clare eagerly.
And then, ' But it could not have been a lie.
I saw '

You didn't see what you think you saw,'
interrupted Susan. 'It wasn't her ladyship
whom you saw your husband kissing; it was
me. And hs kissed me because I made him,
not because he wanted to, goodness knows !
I tell you that now, in case I shouldn't have the
strength to get through the whole story. But
I'll try. You're a jealous sort of woman, aren't
you?'

Yes ; I am afraid so,' answered Clare
humbly.

And you don't know much about men,
that's evident. It will make you pretty angry,
I suppose, to hear that your husband was in
love with somebody before he saw you. He
was in love with me, and I was his mother's

maid. If you don't like that, you must —
lump it.'

But, indeed, I am not so foolish — that does
not make me angry — I am sorry,' stammered
Clare.

He thought it would make you angry, at
all events ; for he was frightened out of his
life lest I should tell you of it. To the best of
my belief, he hasn't been in love with anyone
but you since his marriage ; but I shouldn't
advise you to go on sulking with him as I hear
you've been doing. He isn't the sort of man
to make himself miserable for any woman's
sake longer than he can help. I don't want to
speak against him, though. I don't think he
treated me well, that's all.'

Did he — did he promise to marry you ? '
asked Clare hesitatingly.

Yes ; he did. You may say that he was
little more than a boy at the time, and that I
was a fool for thinking the thing could come

on again, after it had been put a stop to by his
friends ; but we most of us are fools — you in
one way, and I m another, you see. My way
was to take it into my head that I could learn
to be a lady, and that a gentleman always kept
his word. Well, if I had never been anything
worse than a fool, I could die easier.'

I think I understand it all,' said Clare.
You must not tire yourself with talking anymore
now. It was very good of you to send
for me.' And, stooping over the bed, she took
the dying woman's hand and held it in a sort
clasp.

But Susan's was a somewhat stubborn
nature, and it is not likely that she felt any
great affection for Mrs. Adrian Yidal. She
drew her hand away, and answered, ' I didn't
send for you out of goodness. As for talking,
I'd as soon talk as not. You say you understand
; but you must be cleverer than you look
if you do. I don't understand it. I don't see

why I plotted and planned to make him suffer.
Where's the good of revenge? After all, I
don't care '

Her voice died away, and she lay for sometime
with half-closed eyes, breathing heavily.
Clare did not expect her to open her lips
again ; but by-and-by she resumed, speaking,
as before, with a slow, laboured utterance, and
pausing between each short sentence :

I swore I'd punish him, and that wasn't a
difficult thing to do. He hasn't much pluck.
I scared him by threatening to go to you and
tell you how he had behaved to me, and he
didn't defy me, as any sensible man would have
done. I knew he wouldn't. That was how I
got him to meet me in Kensington Gardens.
I dressed myself to look like her ladyship, and
I kept him talking till I saw you. Then I
made him kiss me. He didn't half like it —
though there was a time when he wouldn't
have minded.'

It was rather cruel to me,' Clare could not
help saying.

I didn't think about you ; but I've put it
right now. There's no harm done. Now you
go home and make it up with him. There
never was anything between him and her ladyship
— unless it was on her side — and he's a
good fellow by nature. He used me badly ;
but he's a good fellow. You tell him I said
so — tell him Susan said so.'

Those were the last intelligible words that
she spoke. She went on talking ; but her mind
had begun to wander ; her voice became
weaker and weaker, until it ceased altogether,
and she sank into a sort of stupor.

Sister Jane, who lead moved away at the
beginning of the colloquy, returned now and
bent down over the bed. ' There is scarcely
any pulse,' she remarked, presently ; 'it will be
all over soon.' Then she looked up at Clare's
face, which was scarcely less white than that of

the dying woman. ' Had you not better go
away now ? ' she asked. ' There is nothing
more to wait for, and you look very tired.'

Clare nodded and went, without saying
anything. She passed down the stairs and out
into the street, and walked away, hardly
noticing whither she was going. All her
wrongs, all her misfortunes had been imaginary,
then ! She could not yet rejoice at that
thought ; there was room for nothing in her
heart but bitter humiliation and self-reproach.
Adrian had never been false to her ; all that
he had told her had been true ; what he
had concealed he had hidden from her only
because he knew her jealous nature, and believed
that she would resent what assuredly
she had no right to resent. J^o ; there was
nothing to rejoice over in that ; and what
was worst of all was that she feared she had
worn out his love. Never, surely, would it be
possible to him to think of her again as he had

thought of her once. Even she herself, though
she had loved him all through, felt that something
had been lost since the happy days of
their honeymoon — something that neither
repentance nor forgiveness could ever quite
restore to her.

And she was right. Something had indeed
passed out of her life, and would not return toit,
however intensely it might be longed for.
It passes out of all lives and goes by various
names ; but most people call it Youth, which
is perhaps as near an approach to a definition
as can be reached.

CHAPTEE XLII.

THE LAND WHERE ALL THINGS AKE
FORGOTTEN.'

Adrian had left his house in the morning
without any more distinct idea of how he was
going to spend the day than that he did not
mean to spend it at home. There were a good
many things which it behoved him to do —
amongst others, it might be well that he should
begin getting in his tradesmen's bills and
forming some estimate of what he owed — but
he did not feel equal to undertaking disagreeable
duties, and in the end he sauntered down
to his club and tried to read the papers.
Whilst he was thus occupied, a note, addressed

in Heriot's shaky handwriting, was brought to
him.

Dear Adrian (it ran), — If you will look in

to-day or tomorrow, and rather to-day than

tomorrow, I shall think it kind of you. I

have been very bad this last week — about as

bad as I could be — and I don't want to miss

the chance of seeing you, now that I have a

respite.

Yours always, W. H.'

Adrian's conscience pricked him when he
read this appeal. He had made only one effort
to see Heriot since the latter's return to England,
and on that occasion his friend had been too
ill to receive him. Since then he had found
one excuse after another for shirking the
interrogatories which he was sure awaited him
in Brook Street, He had never until now felt
that his breach with Clare was likely to prove
a final one, and so long as it remained unhealed

the less that was said about it the better. But
he could not refuse to visit the sick when
directly begged to do so ; nor, indeed, did his
reason for absenting himself any longer exist.
He could relate the plain facts now, and really
it did not appear to him that he was open to
the rebuke of any candid man. Such sins ashe
had committed he had confessed and asked
pardon for. Heriot would hardly suggest that
he should acknowledge himself guilty where he
had been innocent, or that he should tamely
submit to be disbelieved when he had pledged
his word to the truth of a statement.

But he forgot all about his wrongs and his
rights the moment that he entered the bedroom
where Heriot lay extended upon a sofa.
When a man has been dying for a number of
years, the end generally comes as a shock to
those who have watched him ; and the first
sight of his friend's face sent the blood back to
Adrian's heart. Nor was he able to conceal

his dismay ; for Heriot said at once, with a
faint smile, —

I have pretty nearly come to the last
words of the last chapter, you see.'

My dear old chap, I won't have you talk
like that ! ' exclaimed Adrian, recovering himself.
' You've had a bad bout of it, that's all.'

But Heriot, still smiling, shook his head.
No ; I have had my last bout but one. I
don't want to brag ; but I think I may say that
I have fought Death as long as any man could
be expected to fight. Now he has got me down,
and I am only waiting for the coup de grace.
The doctor told me plainly, the other day, that
I had not the strength to rally from another
attack.'

How can he possibly tell ? '

'Perhaps he can't; but I can. I know
when I am beaten ; and, to tell you the truth,
I am not very sorry to be near the finish. I
have been through a good deal of suffering, as

you know ; but I am not sure whether intense
weakness is not worse. And I have no fear of
death. Death, after all, is a release. Nobody
knows what it is ; but I suppose it must, at all
events, be that. Isn't it curious to think how
very little speculation there has been upon the
subject ? The whole army of humanity marching
steadily on towards the same goal, and not
one individual having the slightest idea whither
he is bound — or caring much 1 '

But we have some idea, surely,' objected
Adrian, who was himself orthodox after a
somewhat unthinking fashion, and had never
doubted but that his friend was equally sound.

You mean that most of us believe in the
immortality of the soul, and that you and I are
Christians. But Christianity tells us nothing
about a future state of existence ; for I should
think there are very few people who can accept
the Apocalypse as a literal description of it, or
would like the prospect if they could. For the
von 11 r. R

rest, we have one braucli of the Church believing
in Paradise and Purgatory, while another
declares them to be fond things, vainly-invented,
and sends mankind direct to Heaven
or Hell, with perhaps just the shadow of a
mental reservation as regards the latter. All
these are only names ; we can't conceive the
meaning of them any more than we can comprehend
infinity.'

'I suppose that is why speculation has
always been felt to be useless.'

'Perhaps so. Still it seems strange that
the mystery of our fate should weigh so little
upon us. When I look back upon my life,
it appears to have been quite short — only a stew
years — and now eternity is close upon me.
What is going to be done with me, I wonder ? '

*• I know one thing, Heriot,' said the younger
man warmly ; ' if ever mortal deserved Heaven,
you do ! '

But Heriot was not listening to him.

" The laud where all things are forgotten," '
he murmured dreamily — ' the man who said
that was in no hurry to go there. But I don't
know — it has a restful sound.'

Not to me ! ' exclaimed Adrian. * To me
it sounds like a cry of despair. You can't wish
to forget everything and everybody ; that would
be tantamount to losuag your identity altogether
; it is another word for annihilation.
You can't wish for that.'

'I wish for rest, I think. A long, long
sleep -^ I believe that is what I should like, if I
could choose. The fact of the matter is that
I am tired out. Adrian, old fellow, we have
always been good friends, haven't we ? '

Always, dear old man,' answered Adrian,
getting up and seating himself nearer to the
sofa on which Heriot was Ijing.

And now we have to bid one another
good-bye. As I tell you, I don't know what is
going to become of me, or whether I shall be

sable

to remember you in " the land where all
things are forgotten ; " but I shouldn't like to
be forgotten at once by you — or by your
wife.'

You know you won't be forgotten.'

Well, not literally, I hope. And perhaps
you will feel glad to have granted the last
favour that I shall ask of you.'

Heriot,' said Adrian, ' if there is any possible
return that I can make for all the kindnesses
that you have done me ever since I first
knew you, tell me of it. The more difficult it
is, the better I shall be pleased.'

It's a little difficult — not very,' answered
Heriot smiling. ' I only want you two to befriends
again.'

Adrian groaned. ' I am afraid you have
asked for an impossibility,' he said. ' I came
here to-day thinking that you meant to lecture
me, and I was prepared to defend myself ; but
I won't say all that I intended to say. I will

only tell you that I have tried to make friends.
and that I have utterly failed. She never had
much confidence in me, and now she tells me
plainly that she has none, and declines to
believe my word. Don't let us speak about it
any more.'

'Come, Adrian, you can't suppose that I
shall accept that as an answer. Tell me what
you were going to say, if I had lectured you.
Tell me the whole history, will you ? I don't
believe I have ever understood all the ins and
outs of this matter. I am going to die, you
know, so I can't betray your secrets ; and you
used to think me a pretty good hand at giving
you advice in difficulties.'

Adrian was not altogether unwilling to
comply with this request He said, despondently,
' Talking about it won't make it any
better ; ' but probably that statement did not
quite accurately express his belief. He gave a
very fair account of his married life, concealing

none of its events, and not endeavouring to
make out a better case for himself than the
circumstances warranted.

You see,' he said, in conclusion, ' it's hopeless.
Do you remember that evening when
you came down to my lodgings at Polruth and
warned me that Clare was a woman who could
be easily made unhappy, and who could not
easily forgive ? You might have gone farther,
and said that there wasn't a chance of her
being happy with me, and that she couldn't
possibly forgive. She would, if she could ; I
don't doubt that. Last night she told me that
she wanted to believe me — only she couldn't.
It has been so from the first. It isn't in her
power to trust me when appearances are
against me ; and so I don't see how we can
ever be friends. We shall not quarrel again,
though, if that is any consolation.'

Heriot, who, during Adrian's narration, had
been lying back with closed eyes and had

made no remark, remained silent a little longer.
Are you quite sure that you have told me
everything,' he asked, by-and-by.

Everything, upon my honour. You at
all events, will believe me when I say that.'

You must remember that you have given
Clare's faith in you some rather severe trials.
How would you have liked it if she had
received a letter from some man — let us say
from Wilbraham, though that is scarcely put .
tinct it strongly enough — and hed torn it to
pieces before your eyes, sooner than let you
read it ? What would you have thought if
you had found her in Wilbraham 's house P
Supposing she had refused to enter into any
explanations, but had simply said, " I am innocent,
and you ought never to have doubted
me " ? Supposing you had had the extraordinary
magnanimity to promise that you
would say no more about it, only stipulating
that she should cease to receive Wilbraham,

and supposing that she had gone on receiving
him in spite of you ? '

Eeally, Heriot, the cases are not parallel.'

Of course they are not — from a conventional
point of view ; but I want you to realise
her point of view ; and I think, after all that
has passed, you can hardly blame her for being
a little more incredulous than you would like
her to be. And if she is, never mind. You
have only to speak to her in a certain way, and
she will believe a contradiction in terms. Now,
you know that as well as I do, don't you? '

I am not sure,' said Adrian dubiously.

Oh, yes, you are. Believe me, it isn't
worth while to stand on your dignity with a
person whom you care for. What you gain by
it doesn't make up, by a very long way, for
what you lose. And please to observe that I
practise what I preach. I may have thought ita
little unfriendly of you to stay away from me
all these weeks ; I may have been fully entitled

to say to myself that you might go to the deuce
for me. But you see I didn't want to die without
saying good-bye to you ; and so I put my
pride in my pocket. Shall I part with the last
shred of pride that remains to me, and make a
confession to you which I have never made to
any other living being ? Will you laugh at me
if I do?'

It would puzzle you to say anything that
would make me feel inclined to laugh just now,'
replied Adrian drearily.

Well, I don't know why I shouldn't carry
my secret to my grave with me, except that I
have a foolish feeling that I should like Clare to
hear of it after I am gone. It is only that,
if I had been a man who could think of marriage,
I should have asked her to marry me
years ago. There ! Don't make any remark
about it, please. It is permitted to every man
to dream — especially when his dream is beyond
the remotest possibility of realisation. You

won't mind ; nor, I hope, will she. And perhaps
you will both understand better now why
I wish so much that you should be happy together
again, as you used to be.'

Ah, Heriot, you would have made her
happier than I ever can ! '

Don't talk nonsense. There is only one person
m the world who can make her happy, and
that is yourself. Design yourself to the fact that
there is to be an end to your troubles ; and in
the meantime oblige me by looking a little less
dismal.'

Adrian shook his head. ' I can't help it.
You can't expect m'=^ to look cheerful when you
tell me that I am going to lose my best friend.'

It will be time enough to moan when you
have lost him.'

I have completely failed in my trade,
too.'

Excuse me ; you have done no such thing.
You have had a slight check, which will make

you more careful in future — nothing worse than
that'

Besides, I am in a mess about money. I
shall have to start again as a much poorer man
than I expected to be.'

I don't think you need let that worry you
much.'

Adrian shrugged his shoulders. It was all
very well for a rich man to make light of the
ills of poverty ; but he knew that they were
real enough, though they might not be so
great as the other misfortunes which he had to
face.

And now,' said Heriot, after an interval of
silence, ' I must send you away. I am beginning
to feel tired, and I shall have to stop talking.
I want you and Clare to come and seeme
tomorrow afternoon, if you will. You can
tell her all that I have said to you — except, of
course, the one thing which she must not be
told so long as I am alive — and as soon as

you corne in, I shall know by your faces whether
the bad days are over or not.'

I will bring her,' answered Adrian, getting
up and taking Heriot's hand. ' And I promise
you,' he added, ' that, if it depends upon me to
put an end to the bad days, they shall be put
an end to.'

Thank you. I don't doubt you, and I have
no fear. Till tomorrow, then.'

CHAPTEE XLIII.

WESTMINSTER ABBEY.

Adrian's heart was heavy as he walked
away. He knew very well what it was that
he had promised ; he meant to keep his promise,
and believed that the result would be much
what Heriot had predicted ; yet he could not
look forward to the future with any feeling of
hope or joy. It was probably true that if he
spoke to Clare, as Heriot had said, ' in a certain
way,' she would cease to doubt him ; but it
seemed to him that it was not so much his pride
as his self-respect that he was asked to sacrifice,
and he could not think that Clare's love for him
was capable of resuscitation by such means.
The dead past could not, perhaps, be resuscitated

by any means — certainly not by the kind of
reconciliation which he foresaw. Still, it would
please Heriot — poor old Heriot, who was
neither poor nor old in the sense given to those
words by the dictionary, but who, now that his
life was near an end, could look back upon a
greater measure of suffering than most old men
look back upon, and whose lack of the good
things of this world had been equal to that of
many a so-called pauper. The tears came into
Adrian's eyes when he thought of the man's
quiet heroism and of the romance which had
been so long and so successfully concealed. His
impressionable nature had been profoundly
moved by that revelation ; he had at once
realised how many hundreds of stabs Heriot
must have received and submitted to with a
smiling face ; he pitied him with a pity which
may have been more intense than the case called
for. For, indeed, it is no such easy matter to
distinguish between what is real and what is

imaginary in this world of shadows ; and the
happiness that comes from dreams is at least as
real, while it lasts, as any other kind of happiness.
It is certain that Heriot would not at
any time have consented to part with his dream.
But Adrian was not cold-blooded enough to
take comfort from analysis of emotion. He
could only see the pathetic aspect of his friend's
life. Never once had he heard Heriot utter a
complaint of pain, physical or mental ; he had
borne everything with the same unfaltering-patience
— a patience sublime and possibly self-sufficing,
but which had met with very little
recognition, and could now meet with no reward
unless it might be ' in the land where all
things are forgotten.'

Those words kept on ringing in Adrian's
ears. To him, in the fulness of youth and
health, they were terrible words. He could
not conceive of a state of maid in which perfect
rest should seem to be the chief good. He

endeavoured to imagine what the probable
awakening of the spirit, set free from the body,
would be, and found, of course, that there is
nothing upon which to base even the shade of
probability. Who has not, at one time or
another, striven with aching eyes to see through
the impenetrable darkness which hangs over the
grave ? Who has not learnt that such strivings
are vain ? ' They that have done good shrill
go into life everlasting, and they that have done
evil into everlasting fire,' say the orthodox, and
are content with that ; ' Death is at least the
end of pain,' say the heterodox, and seek to
know no more ; while those who halt between
two opinions — are they not the majority ? — can
only turn away with a sigh and try to think
about something else.

The latter course was undoubtedly that
which Adrian woidd adopt in due time ; but
just now it was a little beyond his reach. He
could not acquiesce quietly in anything that was

sad or painful or incomprehensible ; he must
either put it out of his mind, 't it must be
explained for him. His was one of those
natures which demand consolation, and which,
fortunately, are ever ready to accept it, so long
as it presents itself in an attractive form. The
grey towers of Westminster Abbey and the
bell tolling for afternoon service struck him asa
sort of response to his unspoken appeal. He
had intended to take the underground railway
at St. James's Park, and make his way home ;
but now he thought he would turn aside into
the old Abbey, where so many generations of
worshippers have found comfort for their souls,
and see whether the influence of the place
would not do for him what it had done for
them.

He entered at the moment when the organ
was pealing out the opening voluntary. The
procession of clergy and choristers was passing
into the choir, and he, following in their wake,

VOL. III. s

slipped into a vacant stall. The ( congregation
was not a numerous one, consisting only of
some half-dozen persons scattered among the
stalls, and of a rather larger number assembled
in the transept. Adrian did not notice them.
Already he was beginning to find what he had
come to seek. His senses were soothed and
his nerves quieted by the gloom and coolness,
by the shafts of coloured light that streamed
through the stained windows, by the thick
London atmosphere which penetrated into the
building, and lent additional height and space
to the pillars and arches and the vaulted roof.
He felt the charm of the clear, sweet singing,
and of the dignity and refinement which seem
to raise the Anglican cathedral service to a
somewhat higher religious plane than can be
reached by the ceremonies of the older Catholic
communion, with its strange mixture of
grandeur and tawdriness, and its still stranger
insensibility to bathos.

Adrian, however, was not occupied in
drawing comparisons ; nor, if the truth must
be told, was he saying his prayers as he knelt
there, his elbows on the huge musty-smelling
volume which lay open before him. His
wandering thoughts — led thither, perhaps, by
the familiar chants and cadences — had drifted
away to his school-days ; to those old days
when everything had been so plain and simple,
and when the broad black and white which
distinguished right from wrong, and truth from
falsehood, had been obscured by no perplexing
intermediate tints. ' After all,' he reflected,
one must go back to that, blind faith or no
faith at all.' In that solemn, ancient cathedral,
the faith to which it owed its existence, the
faith of childhood, the faith of the saints and
martyrs, was less difficult to lay hold of, and
the heaven of the Revelation, which Heriot
had said that no man could desire to accept
literally, did not seem a mere allegorical vision.



And when Adrian had mechanically risen
to his feet and had looked np the anthem,
what was it that they began to sing? 'Behold,
I show you a mystery. In a moment, in
the twinkling of an eye, . . .the trumpet shall
sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible,
and we shall be changed.'

Great is the power of words : upon Adrian
it was somewhat greater than upon the ordinary
run of mortals. Those magnificent rolHng
sentences, wedded to music not less magnificent,
lifted him out of himself ; he seemed to
see the gates of heaven open and time lost in
eternity, and could understand that of such a
man as Heriot it might well be said. Mors
janus vitae. Logic was not his strong point ;
he had not that fatal precision of ideas which
is such a sad curb upon the imagination of
those who possess it. In compensation lie
often reached the truth at a bound, and, having
done so, never cared to cast a backward glance

upon the maze through which others had
laboriously threaded their way to the same
point. There was no valid reason why his
doubts and perplexities should have been dissipated
by the repetition of phrases which he
must have heard a hundred times before ; but
they were so dissipated, and that was all that
he asked for.

When he sank upon his knees again he
could look out on the present and the future
with an altered gaze. The littleness and
pettinesses of life had shrunk almost to the
point of disappearance, and he marvelled that
he had allowed them to loom so gigantic before
him as to shut out all view of the hereafter.
It will be understood that the power of seeing
things in their actual proportions was denied tc>
him ; he had always to look through a telescope
or a microscope, or a diminish king-glass.
But perhaps that is no such uncommon case ;
and at all events he had now reached the happy

conclusion that his long quarrel with Clare was
but a molehill which his folly and hers had
exaggerated into a mountain. He thought that
if she were beside lira at that moment it
might be swept away almost without any
need for speech. Then he started violently;
for his eyes, roaming idly this way and that,
had fallen upon the north transept, where, with
her chin upon her folded hands and a stray
sunbeam lighting up her golden hair, Clare
herself was kneeling.

It was evident that she was unaware of her
husband's vicinity. Her head was slightly
thrown back ; her eyes had a rapt unconsciousness
; her face wore a look of pain and humiliation.
She might have passed for some suppliant
sinner, asking of Heaven the pardon which
it was vain to expect from man. But it was
not in that way that Adrian interpreted her
attitude and expression. He saw that she was
suffering ; he thought he knew why she was

suffering ; and he longed to step softly across the
intervening space and whisper to her that she
need be unhappy no more.

Since that was impracticable, he waited
until the service was over, and then, following
hier as she passed out, touched her lightly on
the elbow.

When she turned and recognised her husband,
a rush of colour came into her cheeks, then ebbed
away, leaving her paler than she had been before.
I — I did not know you were here,' she said, ina
bewildered, hesitating way. ' I was on my
way back from the hospital, and I thought I
should like to come in for the service. You
said you would not be home before dinner-time.'

Are you apologising for going to church
on a week-day ^ ' asked Adrian smiling. * I
believe there is no law against that ; but if there
is, I am as guilty as you.'

He supposed that it was of the Children's
Hospital that she spoke, and set down her

agitation to surprise at seeing him. ' Shall we
go home together ? ' he asked presently.

Yes, if you like,' answered Clare ; and
then, with a sort of gasp — ' Adrian, I must say
something to you.'

'But not now — not now,' he returned hastily.
I, too, have something to say as soon as we
get home ; I can't speak about it in the street.'

He called a hansom, helped her into it,
and sat down beside her. Not another word
passed between them from that moment until
they reached their own door; but Adrian's
hand sought Clare's, and though she did not
return the pressure which he gave to her
fingers, she allowed him to keep possession of
them, and that was perhaps as much as he had
any right to expect.

When at length they were within their own
f(jur walls, Adrian drew Clare after him into
the drawing-room and stood, holding both her
hands and looking into her eyes, which dropped

before his. Hopeful as his mood was, he still
thought that he had a task of some little difficulty
before him, and great was his astonishment
when Clare suddenly fell on to her knees,
crying,—

Oh, Adrian, do you think you will ever be
able to forgive me ? '

He stooped and raised her to her feet by
main force. ' My dear child,' he exclaimed,
what do you mean ? I was going to ask you
to forgive me. It was ni}^ fault that you didn't
believe what I told you yesterday ; but you
believe me now, don't you .^ And if you don't,
I can convince you — I am sure I can.'

But she drew back, saying, 'Stop! you
don't know what a wretch I have been ! It
has been my fault, not in the least yours, from
beginning to end ; and there is no excuse forme,
because, if I had been open with you. everything
would have been explained long ago. I
don't see how you can possibly go on caring forme

after I have told you this ; but there is no
help for it — I must tell you.'

She sank down into a chair and partly
covered her face with her hands. ' Don't look
at me ! ' she exclaimed. ' Don't come near me
until I have finished ! '

But Adrian ventured to disobey this command.
He seated himself close to his wife, put
his arm round her waist, and drew her head
down on to his shoulder. ' My dear,' he said,
you may be very sure that you have committed
no offence against me that I can't easily and
willingly pardon.'

Ah,' she cried, ' you trust me ! I didn't
trust you.'

'Trust me now,' returned Adrian. 'Tell
me everything, and don't be afraid.'

And so it was that by slow degrees the
story of Susan Bowman's revenge and repentance
was unfolded.

CHAPTEE XLIV.

A LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT.

Heriot had an old and faithful servant who
had been with him since his college days, had
accompanied him in all his wanderings, had
nursed him through many illnesses, and had
ended by becoming his friend and to some
extent also his confidant. A few hours after
Adrian had left him he sent for this man and
said, ' Sit down here, Graves, beside me ; I
want to have a talk with you.'

Better let me get you to bed, sir,'
answered Graves, after scrutinising his master's
face. ' You've had about enough talking for
one day, if you ain't had too much. That there
Mr. Yidal, he comes here, and he sets and he

sets just as if you was made of cast iron. I
was very near knocking at the door and sending
of him away this afternoon, I can tell
you.'

Come now, Graves, you can't accuse him
of having given me too much of his company
lately.'

Xo ; that he ain't ! ' growled Graves, who
was not particularly devoted to his master's
friend. ' He don't trouble himself so much as
to inquire at the door for weeks together;
and when he do come there's no getting rid of
him. He's tired you out, that's plain enough
to see. Now, if you please, sir, you'll just goto
bed and let me read you to sleep. Here's
the evening paper just come in with a leading
article that would send you off beautiful in ^\'q
minutes.'

'I have no doubt it would, if anything
would ; but I don't want to go to sleep just
yet. Sit down, as I tell you, and don't irritate

me. The doctor particularly said that I was
not to be irritated. How old are you,
Graves ? '

Let me see,' murmured Graves. ' Forty-six
— forty-eight — yes, sir, I'm as near eight-and-forty
as it makes no difference.'

Are you really ? Well, now, don't you
think that at eight and forty it is about time
for a young fellow to begin to contemplate
marriage ? '

No, sir,' answered Graves, with a decisive
shake of his head, ' I don't. I know what
married servants is, and I hope I know my
duty to my employer. Xo incumbrances forme,
thank you.'

But what about your duty to Mrs.
Anderson ? How long is it that you have been
keeping company with her ? Twenty years ? '

Scarcely so much, I think, sir ; but that
don't m .ke no odds. She knows I ain't one to
change. She don't want to go running off to

church at once, Hkc a housemaid who's afraid
of her sweetheart giving her the sip ; and if
she did, want would have to be her master.
I've told her often enough that I'm not going
to leave you so long as 3'ou need me. 'rand,"
says I, "if that don't suit you, mum, why,
you're welcome to look elsewhere." '

That was rather ungallant of you, Graves.
Poor Mrs. Anderson may be excused for being
a little impatient after such a number of years,
and I am glad to think that her patience won't
be tried much longer. My time is nearly up.
Graves.'

It ain't nothing of the sort, sir.'

Graves, I thought you had more sense.
I am at the point of death, and you know it.
That is why I want you to tell me what you
will do after I am gone.'

I ain't going to speak about no such thing,
sir — nor yet think about it,' returned the man
doggedly.

My dear old friend, do you suppose I don't
know that you will be sorry to lose me ? But
we must part, you see ; it can't be helped ;
and I should like to have some idea of what
your future is to be. Do you think of lodgings,
for instance ? '

Well, sir,' answered Graves reluctantly,
Mrs. Anderson, she have spoke of it ; but my
own notion was occasional waiting. It ain't
wealth ; but it's a small certainty, and it don't
entail no risk. Now I've known a great
number of men as has left service and taken
to letting lodgings ; but I never snowed one
yet as had capital enough to start clear. What
with the crushing rent you have to pay in
Mayfair or Belgravia — for it ain't much good
to go anywhere else — and what with the cost
of furnishing, you're a lucky man if you ever
manage to pay off you* debts ; that's my experience.'


Yes ; but of course you know that I shall

leave you something. Don't protest ; I am sure
that you have never wished that I should die ;
only you must, in common prudence, have
counted upon coming into some additional
capital at my death. And what I wanted to
say to you was that I have had you put down
in my will for a sufficient sum to pay for
furniture and to give you a small income, but
not quite sufficient to keep you in idleness. A
man without an occupation is a miserable man.
Graves.'

There's no doubt of it, sir.'

Do you remember how in Spain and
Italy, and all those southern countries, we
used to watch the people sitting for hours
together in the sun doing nothing ; and how
we used to wonder what they were thinking of
all the time ? '

They was thinking of no good, sir, that you
may depend,' answered Graves. 'A pack of
cut-throat villains, the whole lot of 'em —

Italians, Spaniards, and Greeks, there aunt a
pin to choose. When they ain't thinking of a
murder or a robbery, it's long odds that they're
thinking about nothing at all.'

Well,' said Heriot smiling, ' I dare say
they often contrive to have no thoughts. They
have raised laziness to the level of a line art ;
they are satisfied to exist, and don't know
what boredom is. It isn't so with us northern
people. We have no sun, worth speaking of,
to sit m ; and we must be doing something, or
else we lose our spirits and our health. I have
never been fit to follow an occupation myseH'^
but I have very frequently felt the want of one.
In spite of books and friends, and such
interests as I could create for myself, I haven't
always been able to fill up the hours ; and I
shouldn't feel that I was doing any man a kindness
by making him altogether independent of
work.'

I don't think you would, sii-,'

VOL. III. T

Yet, when one has a good deal of money
to leave, and only a few people to leave it to,
one is a little puzzled. You see, there is a
certain class of persons who would work all the
better, perhaps, if their daily bread didn't
actually depend upon it. Artists, for instance,
and — and authors. If a man is in a hurry to
get his job done and be paid, he can't give as
much time as he ought to detail and finish ; and
therefore I thhik that, to enable him to show
himself at his best, one should try to place him
out of the reach of money worries. Don't you
see what I mean ? '

May be I do, sir ; but there's some authors
as isn't fit to be trusted with much money, in
my opinion. Some authors would do a deal
better if the money was settled on their wives
and tied up tight too.'

That idea has occurred to me ; but I have
seen some objections to it. The question, after
all, is rather one of amount than of mode of

bequest. Xow tell me honestly, Graves —
because there may be time for me to alter my
will yet — what should you say was a satisfactory
sum, neither too much nor too little, for a man
in your position to inherit ? '

Graves looked distressed. ' K you please,
sir, I'd rather not name a figure. I home it "11
be many a long day before I inherit anything
from you, and I believe I've saved enough to
keep my head above water without any legacies.'


Yes ; but you wouldn't gratify Mrs. Anderson
by taking lodgings unless you had rather
more capital, and I don't fancy the occasional
waiting business for you. This isn't a subject
about which you need feel the slightest delicacy ;
for what doesn't go to you and to one or two
other persons after my death will go to charities.
Would 5,000/. be enough, do you think ? '

Too much, sir, by half.'

I shouldn't like to make it less. One must

tallow

a margin for contingencies ; and it is possible,
though I hope it isn't at all likely, that
your lodgings might turn out a failure. So
that is what you will get. Graves — that and a
few trifles that I thought you might like to
have as reminders of an old friend. And now
about the other bequests. What would be your
notion of the proper income for a literary
gentleman who had better not be too rich, and
certainly ought not to be poor ? '

In addition to what he has got already, do
you mean ? '

Heriot nodded.

'Five or six hundred a year, sir,' replied
Graves, without the least hesitation.

What ! for a married man who may have
a large family ? I thought you would have put
it at quite double that amount. To tell you the
truth, I have made it rather more than double,
and I am not sure that I haven't been stingy.'

Graves shook his head. ' I should have

liked to have seen it settled on the lady, sir,'
said he.

Be satisfied, then,' returned Heriot laughing
; ' half of it is settled on the lady. My old
friend Mrs. Irvine will come into a round sum
you won't object to that, I suppose. And
then there is that Children's Hospital that Mrs.
Vidal is interested in ; I thought she woidd be
glad that it should be remembered. All the
rest goes to different charities. There ! I've
altered my will I don't know how often, and
I've given no end of bother to the lawyers ; but
I doubt whether I shall bother them again.
Graves, you have known me a long time ; yon
knew me before I was an invalid ; you have
been with me since I began to suffer, all those
years ago, and you have seen me in pain and
out of spirits and out of temper '

Never ! ' bm'st out Graves suddenly.
Never seed you out of temper once, I'll
swear! '

Haven't you ? ' said Heriot considering.
Perhaps not — perhaps I haven't shown it in
the ordinary v^ay. And now tell me, do yon
think that, upon the whole, I have borne it all
like a man ? '

Something prevented Graves from answering
at once ; but presently he said, in a gruff
voice, ' Yes ; you've bore it like a man.'

Well, do you know, Graves, that is what
I think myself. I hope it isn't arrogant. A
soldier, you know, who has been through
several campaigns and hasn't shirked death or
wounds is entitled to call himself a brave man.
You may say that he has no business to brag,
because he has only done his duty, and he
would have been a very despicable being if he
had run away ; still, I think it must sometimes
be a satisfaction to him to be able to say to
himself, " Anyhow, 1 am not a coward." That
is the way that I look at my life. I haven't
been a coward ; though I have often enough

felt afraid. Lately I have felt more afraid than
I used ; the machine is worn out, you see.'

He was silent for a minute or two, and
then added, ' Mr. and Mrs. Vidal will be here
tomorrow afternoon ; you must tell them that
I don't feel well enough to see them. I shall
never see them again. After keeping up for
so long, it would not do to run the risk of
breaking down at the finish and giving them a
painful recollection of me, and I feel as if I
were losing hold of myself. Well, I think I'll
go to bed now, Graves.'

Graves got up without replying, and began
to bustle about ; but all of a sudden he stopped
in the midst of his preparations, stood still fora
moment, and then hurried off into the
adjoining room, where he had slept during his
master's illness, slamming the door behind
him,

Heriot was off the sofa and after him in a
moment. He found the man sitting? in the

dark, with his face buried in his hands, and
sobbing like a baby.

Why, Graves, what's the matter ? What
an old fool you are ! ' he exclaimed, laughing,
though his own voice was a little unsteady.
You mustn't do this sort of thing, you know.
Didn't you hear the doctor say that I was to
be spared all agitation ? '

What do you go to upset me for, then .? '
returned the other angrily. ' You've no
regard for a man's feelings. Now, you won't
find me making a fool of myself like this again ;
so I tell you. And you'll just please let me
get you to bed, sir, and stop talking. It's
enough to give any one an illness to go on like
you've been doing to-night.'

Graves continued to grumble under his
breath until his master was between the sheets,
when he reverted to the leading article which
he had recommended before as a soporific, and
proposed to begin reading it aloud. But

Heriot answered that he thought he could get
to sleep without that.

Good night, Graves,' he said, holding out
his wasted hand. ' I am sorry that I distressed
you just now, but I couldn't help it. It had
to be said some time. And, Graves, if the
pain conies on in the night and you hear me
call out, you'll come in at once with the
medicine, won't you ? '

Graves nodded. 'You shan't have to wait,
sir. But you'll have a quiet night, please God.
Your eyes looks heavy, and I think you're
going to sleep well.'

And so it proved. Several times after this
Graves returned, and was reassured by the
sound of slow and regular breathing. Then,
being a light sleeper, and knowing that the
slightest sound would awaken him, he lay
down and took a few hours of rest. He was
not disturbed; but when, with the first glimmer
of dawn, he stole on tiptoe into his master's

room, there was nothing but stillness and
emptiness there. Upon the bed, as if in
slumber, lay what had once been called
Heriot ; but the real Heriot, having faithfully
performed the task allotted to him in this
world of pain and weariness, had received his
message of recall during the night, and, silently
responding to it, had passed away to ' the land
where all things are forgotten.'

CHAPTEE Xli.

NEW LEAVES.

It was on a sunny, hazy afternoon in the
autumn that Adrian and Clare wandered out to
the headland overlooking Polruth Bay, where
one of them had been wont to sit in days gone
by, and amuse herself with dreams which time
had only in part fulfilled. As she sat down in
the old place now, she seemed to see before hera
future less romantic, perhaps, but more
assured and more peaceful. She had lived and
learnt, and had gained something and lost something
by that process, as all must. The events
of the past two years had changed her both
outwardly and inwardly more than they had
changed her husband, who had stretched himself

upon the turf at her feet, and was unrolling
one of a number of architectural drawings
which he had brought with him. This paper,
labelled ' South Elevation,' he spread out and
secured by placing stones on its four corners,
and then, —

Just look here a moment, will you, Clare ? '
he said. ' You see, here's the front door, with
the dining-room windows on one side and the
library on the other. He calls it south ; but
I've been over the ground, and it isn't south a
bit ; it's as nearly as possible south-west. Now
the question is whether, when there's a gale
(which, I suppose, will be about every Monday,
Wednesday, and Friday during the winter), we
shall be able to use our front door at all without
having all our teeth blown down our throats.'

When there is a gale we will use the back
door,' answered Clare ; ' but it is a great mistake
to imagine that there are more gales in
Cornwall than anywhere else. If it does happen

to blow, it blows rather hard, that is all. And
during the winter the front door will be locked,
because we shall be in London.'

Shall we indeed ? And where are we
going to live in London, if it isn't an impertinent
question ? '

In our own house, of course. Adrian, did
you really suppose that I contemplated planting
you down in Cornwall for the rest of your
days ? '

My dear girl, wealthy as we are, I don't
think we can quite afford to have two houses ;
and if it is a question between Cornwall and
London, I give my vote for Cornwall without
hesitation.'

Then I give mine for London. It would
not make me at all happy to have my own way
in everything. This house is only being built
to please me, and I should never enjoy living
in it if I felt the whole time that I was keeping
you away from your friends and your club and

all the amusements that you are accustomed to.
You know you hate the country

That is just where you are mistaken, my
dear. I love the country. I suppose no man
ever was more sick of a place than I am of
London, and I decided to have a house hereabouts,
because I happen to prefer Cornwall to
any other county in England. As for this
particular house, I take it that it is being built,
not to please either you or me, but to please
your mother, who in an evil hour fell in with
the most promising young architect you ever
saw," and of course had to find some employment
for him, since nobody else seemed to be
disposed to give him any. As far as I can
judge, there is considerably more promise than
performance about him. If he ever carries out
his fell designs, we shall find ourselves the
proud possessors of the ugliest and most incommodious
dwelling in England. I have been
studying his features, which seem to express a

happy combination of knavery and stupidity ;
and I have been wondering whether it micrht
not be worth while to pay him a certain sum
in advance, upon the chance of his bolting off
with the money and never being heard of
again.'

Clare laughed. ' Considering that you are
his employer,' she remarked, 'I should think
you might venture to dismiss him without
tempting him to rob you. Are you going tolet
your wife and your mother-in-law reduce
you to a state of slavery ? Georgina thinks
that is your only chance. Did I tell you that I
had a letter from her this morning ? She assures
me that since her marriage she has become
more than ever convinced that either the
husband or the wife should be a benevolent
despot, and that the one whose will is strongest
should always be placed in command.'

Oh, indeed. And has she discovered that
De Wynt's strength of will is phenomenal ? '

So she says ; and as she has no doubt at all
about my will being stronger than yours, she
concludes that you must be made to obey, or

else we shall both suffer for it. Her view is

but, after all, I don't think I will repeat her
view to you,' said Clare, with a slight laugh.

But Adrian lifted his handsome young face,
upon which care had left no faintest indication
of its passage, and looked up at his
wife smiling. ' Let us hear her view,' he said.
It is always amusing and sometimes profitable
to be told what other people think of us.'

What she thinks is not amusing,' answered
Clare, who had grown grave. ' She says that
we are not suited to one another, and that you
will never understand me, nor I you. It isn't
true, though. You don't think it is true, do
you, Adrian ? '

My dear Clare, do you believe that one
human being ever did completely understand
another ? As to our not being suited to each

other, surely we may be allowed to be the best
judges of that. I remember poor old Heriot
saying the same thing to me once. It was long
ago — before we were married.'

Did he .^ ' asked Clare, a look of pain
coming over her face. ' But he changed his
mind afterwards — I am sure he did. I often
wish that he could see us now. And yet, I
don't know — it seems rather cruel that we
should be happy, and that we should be making
plans and discussing what we shall do with his
money, and seeming to forget him — though
we don't really forget. I wonder whether he
would have approved of our establishing ourselves
down here ? I wonder what he thought
oiu* future would be .? *

The secret which Heriot had kept so long
and so well had been duly divulged to Clare, in
accordance with his wish ; but it had hardly
affected her so painfully as it would have done
had she realised its full meaning. Heriot,

VOL. III. u

ADRIAN VIDAL

during his lifetime, lead never seemed to her to
be a man who could love or be loved in that
particular way, nor could she feel that his love
for her had been anything more than what he
himself had called it — a dream. Perhaps the
uppermost feeling in her mind was one of thankfulness
that she had not been told sooner ; and
it is not improbable that Heriot may have
foreseen that this would be so.

Adrian, who was pulling up tufts of the
sweet smelling herbage and crushing them
between his fingers, did not answer for a
minute or two. He had felt Heriot's death
more, perhaps, than Clare had done ; he certainly
missed his friend more than she did;
but he hated all painful topics, and could not
speak about them without an effort.

That queer fellow, Graves, gave me an
account of a long talk that he had with his
master the last evening that they were together,'
he remarked presently. ' The man told it very

well ; I could fancy that I heard poor old
Heriot's voice. His wish seems to have been
that we should be well enough off to be independent,
but that I should not fancy myself too
rich to work. Well, I have no thought of
giving up work ; only I shan't write any more
novels.'

Oh, Adrian, why not ? Not because the
last one didn't succeed quite so well as the one
before ? '

That wouldn't be a bad reason. One ends
by finding out what one can do and what one
can't. I might go on writing novels indefinitely,
and by taking pains I might, I think, always
manage to attract a certain number of readers ;
but no amount of pains would ever lift me into
the front rank of novelists. I have the descriptive
faculty, but I haven't the creative ; and
that is like saying of a painter that he is an
excellent copyist. You can make a living by
copying ; it's a vocation like another ; but I

T72

can't conceive any one adopting it unless with
a view to making a living. Now, I am not
obliged to work for my living any more. We
have what I suppose may be called a comfortable
competence, and I think I am entitled to
take up a kind of employment which may
never bring me in any money at all, and which,
at all events, can't do so for a considerable
time.'

What kind of employment do you mean ? '
asked Clare wonderingly.

I am going to write a history. Don't open
your eyes at me ; it isn't such a wild piece of
presumption as it sounds. Do you know why
there are comparatively few historians ? Why,
simply because very few literary men can afford
to wait an indefinite time for payment. What,
after all, are the qualifications of an historian?
Accuracy and diligence, to begin with. Everybody
can be accurate and diligent if he will.
After that, he should have a pleasant style, he

should be able to sift the ofrain from the chaff,
and he should know how to put life into the
personages whom he describes. Now, between
ourselves, and as nobody is listening to us. I
don't mind saying candidly that I believe I
possess these gifts in some measure. I may not
be a Gibbon or a Macaulay '

I don't see why you should not be,' interrupted
Clare ; and indeed she spoke ^vith perfect
sincerity.

But, without aiming quite so high as that,
one may perhaps earn a little credit for one's self
and spend a few years very pleasantly in erecting
a monument which may or may not prove
more perennial than bronze, I've decided upon
my subject ; I mean to take the period of the
First Empire. I shall not call it a life of
Napoleon, though of course his will be the central
figure : but just think of the list of his contemporaries
! Pitt, Fox, Wellington, Talleyrand.
Goethe, Madame de Steel — there's no end to

them. And then the materials that one has to
work upon! One's great difficulty will be the
boiling of them down. Now, I know what you
are going to say ; it isn't new ground. But
what of that ? The history of such a period is
always new ; no one writer can exhaust all that
there is to be said about it. Besides, I haven't
any very formidable rivals. The " Histoire du
Consulat et de Empire " is a tolerably well-known
book ; but how many English people
have read it, do you suppose ? '

I have not,' answered Clare.

You will have it to read now,' Adrian
said laughing. ' For years to come your days
will be passed among the dead. I shall get you
to take notes for me, and to write from dictation,
and to do a hundred other disagreeable
things ; and every now and then we shall have
to go up to London to consult authorities. That
will be better fun than having a house there,
won't it ? Of course, too, we shall have to visit

Paris at intervals — not to speak of Italy and
Spain, and every battle-field from Waterloo to
the Borodino. Do you know, Clare, I believe
we shall be inconsolable when this great work
is completed.'

Clare allowed herself to be gained by her
husband's enthusiasm. New horizons opened
out before her as he talked on ; she saw herself
becoming his companion, his helpmate, and his
friend, and acknowledged to herself that such a
life was at least more useful and dignified than
the existence of perpetual love-making, which
she had once longed for and still regretted a
little. She was beginning, • I wouldn't change
places with any woman living now,' when her
sentence was interrupted by the sudden appearance
of her mother, who was seen hurrying up
the slope in a state of much agitation and
breathlessness.

'Oh, here you are!' panted Mrs. Irvine;
I have been looking for you everywhere to

tell you of a most painful thing that has
happened. I have just heard that that wretched
young man has been arrested at Bodmin on a
charge of embezzlement. Is it not too heartrending
? '

I have no doubt that I should feel it to be
so,' answered Adrian, to whom this appeal
seemed to be addressed, ' if I knew who the
wretched young man was. Can it be — but no ;
that would be too good to be true. It isn't
our friend the architect ? '

Mrs. Irvine nodded solemnly. 'It is indeed
; and I feel that I shall never be able to
believe in the honesty of any distressed person
again.'

Oh yes, you will,' said Adrian encouragingly.
' I will venture to predict that the very
next distressed person who turns up will command
your full confidence. Only I do trust
that no more casual architects will appear in

these parts until Clare and I have got a roof
over our heads.'

You need have no fear,' replied Mrs. Irvine,
who had taken her son-in-law's arm, and was
leading him down towards the village. ' If a
hundred architects were to come and beg me
to find employment for them, I should tell
them that they might as well talk to one of
their own stone walls as to me. I have been
taken in too often. Do you remember how
poor dear Mr. Heriot used to laugh at me
about the people whom I had tried to befriend
and who had turned out badly ? I always
maintained that I had been exceptionally unlucky
in my experiences ; but I am beginning
to see til at there are more rogues than honest
folk in the world. I shall turn over a new leaf
now, and subscribe to the Charity Organisation
Society.'

We are all going to turn over new leaves,'

Adrian remarked. ' You are going to give up
indiscriminate charity ; Mr. Irvine is going to
give up enriching the curiosity dealers ; Georgia
is going to give up savage life ; and Clare
and I are going to give up writing novels and
frequenting fashionable society and — and other
things which it is unnecessary to specify. I
wonder whether all of us, or any of us, will
keep our resolutions ? '

And then, as Mrs. Irvine, who had paused
to exchange greetings with an ancient mariner,
was evidently not attending to him, he turned
to his wife, and said, ' What do you think,
Clare?'

Perhaps, if we keep the resolutions that
you didn't mention, it will be sufficient,' she
answered.

THE END.

^iw'tiswoode d: Co. Printed, Aticslrtet square, London.

Each Work complete in One Volume, price Six Shillings.

OLD KENSINGTON. By Miss Thackeray. Cro^-n
8vo. 6s.

THE VILLAGE ON THE CLIFF. By Miss

Thackeray. Cro\\-n 8vo. 6s.

FIVE OLD FRIENDS AND A YOUNG

Prince. By Miss Thackeray, Crown 8vo. 6s.

TO ESTHER, and other Sketches. By Miss

Thackeray. Cro\\Ti 8vo. 6s.

BLUE BEARD'S KEYS, and other Stories.

By Miss Thackeray. Crown 8vo. 6s.

THE STORY OF ELIZABETH; TWO HOURS;

FROM AN ISLAND. By Miss Thackeray. Crown 8vo. 6s.

TOILERS AND SPINSTERS, and other Essays

By Miss Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

MISS ANGEL; FULHAM LAWN. By Miss

Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6:.

MISS WILLIAMSON'S Divinations. By

Miss Thackeray. Cro\\'n Svo. 6s.
Blandly REEFS. By Lady Verxey, Author of

Stone Edge ' »S:c. Crown Svo. 6s.

Letting LISLE. By Lady Verxey. With 3 Illustrations.
Crown Svo. 6s.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

OF

POPULAR ^A^ORKS

Handsomely bound in cloth gilt, each volume containing
Four Illustrations. Crown 8vo. ^s. (>d.

THE SMALL HOUSE AT Arlington.

By Anthony Trollope.

Frame PARSONAGE.

By Anthony Trollope.
THE Clavering.

By Anthony Trollope.
TRANSFORMATION: a Romance.

By Nathaniel Hawthorne.

ROMANTIC TALES.

By the Author of 'John Halifax, Gentleman,'

DOMESTIC STORIES.

By the Author of ' John Halifax, Gentleman, '

NO NAME.

By WiLKiE Collins.
ARMADALE.

By WiLKiE Collins.

AFTER DARK.

By WiLKiE Collins.

MAUD TALBOT.

By Holme Lee.

THE MOORS AND THE FENS.

By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

WITHIN THE PRECINCTS.

By Mrs. Oliphant.

carta.

By Mrs. Oliphant.

FOR PERCIVAL.

By Margaret Veley.

NO NEW THING,

By W. E. Norris.

LOVE THE DEBT.

By Basil.

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.
