jlOTHOF^ OP

JiBXP^oFXpKEY 1

V1^

J

Colonial Alfred QaprlQur?,

L I B R A RY

OF THE

U N I VERS City

or ILLINOIS

62,5

N4-7'mdidi
v.\

VOL. I.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/mademoiselledeme01norr

BY

^y. E. XOERLS

AUTHOR OF-heaps OF Moreton

THREE VOLUMES

VOL. I.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



hall rights reserved

CONTENTS

OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.

PACK

m

LO

^ CHAPTER I.

C^ The Ancient Family of De Mehsac . . . . 1

^ CHAPTER n.

In which Jeanne has a Disappointment . . .37

CHAPTER HI.

Monsieur LE MaDQUIS 5G

^ CHAPTER IV.

r Mr. Barrington 78

V CHAPTER V.

"" M. DE Saint-Luc 03

5V, CHAPTER VF.

madame ie Tremonville'> Dance . . . . UG

CHAPTER VII.

Page

Barrington studies the Picturesque . . . 147

CHAPTER Vin.

Madame de Tremonville at Home . . , ,175

CHAPTER IX.
Grande Kabylie 200

CHAPTER X.

In which Mr. Harrington loses his Temper . . 231

CHAPTER XI.

In ^VHICH Mn. Barrington wins a Game of Billiards 255

CHAPTER XII.

Lansquenet . . . , . . , .271

CriAPTER XHI.
Love v. Prudence 293

CHAPTER I.

THE ANCIENT FAMILY OF DE MERSAC.

Beside a hedge of prickly cactus and spiked
aloes, a tall dark-haired girl stood erect and
motionless. She was shading her eyes ^\ith her
hand, and gazing intently at some distant object.
From the point at which she had taken up her
station the ground fell away in stony watercourses
and wooded ravines, till, far beneath, a silvery
hue of foam marked the shore of the wide expanse
of blue sea which stretched away from it to
meet the horizon. Behind her was a large garden,
in which feathery bamboos, ragged bananas, and
tall palms were intermingled with plants and
flowers more familiar to English eyes ; and directly
at her back a rugged old almond-tree spread over
her its branches loaded with bloom, but as yet
VOL. I. u

bare of leaves ; for the season was the month of
February, and Northern Europe was still hard
frozen or dreary with gales and driving rain,
though here in Algeria the roses were in bloom,
and the air was full of the scent of spring.

Bareheaded she stood under the African sun,
a graceful, majestic figure ; and the breeze, as it
swept in fitfully from the seaward, set the rosy
almond-blossoms flying, and dropped a stray one
now and again upon her abundant dark tresses.
As to the fact of her beauty there could be no
question ; but there could be, and indeed was, a
considerable divergence of opinion as to its attractiveness
— those of her own sex generally according
her their tribute of admiration without stint,
whereas men, while admitting that in form and
feature she was as perfect as an old Greek statue,
sometimes complained that she was almost as cold,
and that for so young a girl she was too impassive
and self-possessed to be fascinating. To be fascinating
was assuredly not one of her aspirations ;
that much might be guessed by the most superficial
of physiognomists from the proud pose of
her small, well-shaped head, from the slightly
drawn-up nostril, above all from the serene composure
of her curved hips. The owner of such a

face could no more be capable of coquetry than
Pallas Athene. Noble she might be, or clever, or
generous ; but captivating never — unless, indeed,
qualities more captivating than the ordinary might,
by such as were at the pains to seek for them, be
found lying far beneath that calm surface, as
pearls lie hid in depths of the Southern Ocean.

Presently an old woman in a white linen :ap
came out of the house, which stood some hundred
yards or so in the background, and peered about
her, blinking in the blaze of the sunlight.

Mademoiselle Jeanne ! ' she called, in a hig^h-
pitched quavering voice.

I am here, Fanchette,' answered the girl,
without changing her position.

The old woman advanced slowly, dragging her
list slippers over the gravel.

Madame la Duchesse sends to say that she is
not feeling well, and will breakfast in her own
room,' she announced. ' Will you be served now,
mademoiselle ? '

Not yet,' answered the girl. ' The steamer
is in sight, Fanchette.'

Where, then ? I see nothing. Ah, that speck
in the distance ! Eh, mon Dieu ! mademoiselle,
you are never thinking of waiting for M. Leon !

B 2

Two hours it will be, at the very least, before the
steamer gets into harbour ; and then there is the
custom-house— they will not hurry themselves forking
or peasant, those lazy courtiers. If M.
L^on gets home by three o'clock, I shall be
astonished— and you have eaten nothing since
seven ! '

I shall have the better appetite, Fanchette,'
said the girl, turning and looking down upon the
old servant with grave, brown, not unkindly eyes.

Appetite ? That is precisely where you are
deceived, mademoiselle. Appetite is a good
thing ; but hunger is a bad one. Neglect your
stomach when you are young, and it will refuse
to serve you when you are old — that is what
my father used to say ; and he was a man full
of good sense, my father.'

I don't doubt it, Fanchette ; but it will not
hurt me to fast for a few hours, just for once.'

Who knows ? You have hardly done growing
yet; and "just once" may be just once too
often. If you were a little girl still, I would say,
Jeanne, go in and eat your breakfast, and don't
argue with those who are four times your age,
and know better than you what is good for

you." '

But, as I am not a little girl any more, I
suppose I must have my own way, Fancliette,'
observed the young lady, with a smile.

Oh ! without doubt ; we all have the right
to do silly things, as soon as we are out of the
nursery. Come, mademoiselle, come in and eat.
M. Leon shall not starve when he arrives — it is I
who promised it you.'

Thank you, Fanchette ; but I think I would
rather wait.'

What for, hon Dieu ? When he comes, you
will find, most likely, that he has breakfasted onboard
; and so long as you have him with you,
what difference can it make whether you eat with
him or not ? '

I should prefer to wait.'

Fanchette knew by experience that when her
young mistress spoke in that tone further insistance
was useless ; so she shrugged her shoulders
silently, and slowly made her way back towards
the house, into which she presently vanished.

The house was one of a type not uncommon
in the neighbourhood of Algiers. Having been in
the old corsair days which seemed so remote, but
which are still well within the memory of living
men, the country residence of some wealthy Moor,

it had, at a later period, been altered and added to
so as to meet the requirements of a French family
of the present day ; that is to say, that a modern
villa, plain, tile-roofed, and uncompromising, had
been tacked, without rhyme or reason, or any
sense of the fitness of things, on to one end of it ;
whereby it had gained much in comfort, and
lost as much in beauty. Yet no one could say
that the house was an ugly one. Artists, architects,
and dilettanti were wont, after they had duly
admired the horseshoe arches, the twisted marble
pillars, the arabesques, and the blue glazed tiles
of the older part of the building, to shake their
heads and sadly moan over the civilised barbarism
which had affixed thereto an oblong and unornamented
excrescence with large windows, green
persiennes and a red roof; but, if they were
honest men and hard pressed, could not deny that
the general effect of the structure was not so bad
as by rights it should have been. Sometimes, indeed,
when sitting after dinner, in the garden, over
a bottle of old Burgundy, while the slant rays of
the setting sun fell full upon the white walls, and
the sky beyond the Bouzareah was all aglow,
they could be brought to concede that even the
modern part of the edifice was not wholly devoid

of a certain picturesqueness of its own ; but it was
redeemed from ugliness (they would explain in
such moments) by three things only — firstly, by
honest incongruity, no attempt (which must needs
have proved futile) having been made by the
French builder to assimilate his work to that
which Moors alone could accomplish ; secondly,
by whitewash, which, under the African sun,
takes from shadow such soft and delicate tints
that the meanest of buildings are beautified by it ;
and thirdly, by a universal mantle of creepers —
jasmine, Banksia rose, and purple Bougainvillea —
the last a very gorgeous and luxuriant plant, for
which, let us hope, a less clumsy name may, at
some future time, be discovered.

But, whatever may have been the merits or
demerits of the building itself, there could be no
two opinions as to the loveliness of its position.
For it stood high on a breezy upland, the swelling
hills of the Sahhel on its right, the sea far beneath
on its left, and in front a foreground of palm and
umbrella pines ; the heights of the Fort Empereur
hiding the old robber city which they
command, for middle distance ; and bey and, a
glimpse of the wide Bay of Algiers ; and beyond
that, again, the blue, snow-capped mountains of

Kabylia melting into the sky. Behind the house
were fields of corn and maize, backed by a stretch
of broken ground, overgrown with palmetto,
which swelled into hills and culminated in the
headland called the Bouzareah, behind whose
shoulder the sun sank every evening into a peaceful
saffron sky, flecked with tiny gold cloudlets, or
into an angry reddening storm-rack, sailing up
from the Atlantic, according as the seasons and
the wind were.

Algiers, alas ! is becoming fashionable. The
Grand Army which annually sets out from London,
Petersburg, New York, and other cities upon its
invasion of the once peaceful Elvira has for some
years past been pushing reconnoitring parties into
Africa — parties which would doubtless have waxed
numerically stronger but for the inveterate turbulence
of the Gulf of Lyons. The prospect of forty-eight
hours, more or less, of sea-sickness — a very
terrible contingency to most Continental minds —
has hitherto prevented Algiers from being converted
into a second Nice, and will probably continue
to do so, in spite of its undoubted superiority
of climate ; but, happily for the Algerian hotel-keepers
— unhappily perhaps for sundry unsociable
individuals — British matrons and maidens are less

afraid of the sea ; and thus it has come to pass
that the Erie Bab-Azoim and the Place du Gouvernement
have added to their accustomed motley
crowd of costumes — turbaned Moors, white-robed
Arabs, scowling Spaniards, Maltese sailors,
grinning negroes, and a dozen other quaintly-assorted
types — a considerable sprinkling of the
ulsters, puggarees, sealskin jackets, and Mother-hubbard
hats, by means of which our countrymen
and countrywomen are wont to exhibit their appreciation
of the picturesque element in dress.
During the winter months these good people not
only fill the few hotels of the town, but overflow
into the surrounding country. The wooded hillside
on the eastern arm of the great bay, with its
innumerable white villas, swarms with them ; and
if they have to pay somewhat highly for their accommodation,
no doubt they get the value of
their money ; for these villas, nesting amid orange
groves, palms, aloes, and cypresses, and looking
out upon a prospect of glittering city, blue sea,
and distant mountains, form as near an approach
to fairyland as can be obtained within four days'
jon-ney of our bleak shores.

It is not, however, in this fashionable suburb
of Mustapha Superieur that the particular

house with which we are concerned is to
be found. To get to it you must either pass
beyond that district, and, reaching the top of
the hill, strike across the promontory towards
the northern shore ; or, starting from Algiers
by the Bab-el-Oued — the Western Gate — you
must mount a steep, winding road, bordered with
acacias, and, leaving the town below you on the
left, gain the little village of El-bear. Then, after
following the level high-road for ten minutes or
so, you will see a high white garden wall and
wooden folding gates, through which, if you
penetrate, you will find yourself in the garden of
the Campagne de Mersac. Looked upon merely
as a winter residence, it can hardly compare with
its neighbours of Mustapha, being colder and more
exposed than they ; but, on the other hand, it is
fresher in the hot season, and it has also — wdiat
the villas of Mustapha have not — a very respectable
property attached to it. Many acres of
fertile land stretch away behind it, inland, from
which the owners, after contending for a quarter
of a century against much difficulty and disappointment,
may be said to have reaped, upon the
whole, an encouraging result.

Thither in the year 1 845, or thereabouts, had

come one Charles Leon, Marquis de Mersac,
hoping to find in the pursuit of agriculture in the
young colony at once peace and occupation for
the remaining years of a life which had hitherto
been passed amid more storms and troubles than
fall to the lot of most men. He purchased his
land — land which, as his reading had told him,
had once been as fertile as any in the world, but
which had now lain waste, or nearly so, for centuries
— set himself manfully to struggle against
infinite natural difficulties, irrepressible growth of
useless palmetto, want of labour, siroccos, locusts,
and many other stubborn enemies which need not
be enumerated here ; and, in the end, achieved a
fair measure of success. He met with a good deal
of what is generally called bad luck ; but this did
not disappoint, or, at any rate, did not discourage
him.

'Disappointment — ca me contain !' he y^oxAdi
often say, with a smile and a shrug. ' Misfortune
and I are old acquaintances, and know how to meet
without quarrelling. After all, it is only a question
of habit. Sailors sleep quietly in a gale of wind
which frightens landsmen out of their senses ; and
I am too much accustomed to failure to be scared
by it.' So before his death the Marquis de Mersac

had become a prosperous farmer, which is a rare
phenomenon in Algeria even at the present day.

For this result he was indebted partly, no doubt,
to his possession of a moderate amount of capital,
but in a much greater degree to his indomitable
perseverance and spirit, which carried him over
obstacles that would have disheartened a man of
weaker will. But for this resolute temperament,
indeed, he must have fainted far earlier in his
career ; for he had seen little but adversity ever
since that dim winter's morning at the close of the
last century, when, as a child of eight years old,
he had been roused from his bed by his pale,
affrighted mother, and, after a long journey over
miry roads and through a country blazing into
anarchy, had been taken on board a small sailing-boat
bound for Dover. His father, a three-parts
ruined nobleman, who had held some office about
the court of Louis XVI., took a gloomy old house
at Hampstead ; and there it was that the young
Charles grew up to manhood, and received such
education as his parents could afford him. The old
Marquis seems to have borne ill-fortune with that
mixture of petulance and dignity which is the
peculiar characteristic of his nation. Proud, nary
hating England and the English,

he uttered no complaint, but accepted his honos
of exile merely as bad moments to be passed
through in silence and patience ; refused all hospitality,
being unable to return it ; and lived the
life of a hermit, looking forward always to a
brighter future, when right should triumph over
wrong, the good old times retm-n, and the king
come to his own again. In the great Revolution
which had swept away for ever the old order of
things in his own land, and was bidding fair to
effect a like transformation all over Europe, he
saw only a successful uprising of the has peuple;
and knowing his compatriots — or believing he
knew them — as he did, he never felt a moment's
doubt of the ephemeral nature of the newEepubhc.
Nor did the rise of the Empire occasion him any
fresh misgivings. Sometimes, indeed, the news of
one of Napoleon's victories would elicit from him
a few angry expressions of contempt for the theatrical
farceur (to use his own expression) who had
dubbed himself Emperor of the French ; but that
an obscure Corsican upstart should ever be able
to establish a dynasty permanently upon the
throne of the Bourbons was a proposition too
absurd to merit refutation.

In serene expectation, then, of the ultimate

undoing of the Devil and all his works, the old
gentleman sat in his dim little parlour one grey
morning in the year 1805, and as he listened to
the salvoes of artillery booming in honour of the
victory of Trafalgar, tapped his gold snufF-box
with a certain pensive complacency. But there
was another person in the room upon whom the
sound of those cannons produced an entirely
different effect, and who, at each fresh report,
fidgeted and frowned and drummed so impatiently
upon the table, that the Marquis was roused at last
from his reverie, and looked up with an air of
slightly offended surprise. This was no other than
M. Charles, who had now developed into a tall,
broad-shouldered, and handsome young man of
three-and-twenty, and who, in the most reprehensible
manner, had begun to hold opinions and form
judgments of his own upon many matters ; opinions
and judgments which, if not speedily corrected,
might lead him Heaven — or rather the Devil —
only knew where.

May I inquire, Charles,' said the Marquis, in
his high, thin voice, ' what is disturbing you ? '

Sir,' says the young man, ' we have lost a
battle.'

Indeed ? I was not aware of it. I imagined.

on the contrary, that the fleet of M. Buonaparte
had received a crushing blow. But I do not
trouble myself much about such matters at present
; no doubt you are better informed than I.
Where did this battle take place, Charles ? '

I was speaking of the battle of Trafalgar, sir,
where, as you say, the French fleet has received a
crushing blow. The army, I believe, continues to
be everywhere victorious. Father,' continued the
young man, in a more animated tone, ' let me go
and fight for France ! Republic or Emphe, what
signifies the government when it is the nation
which is at war ? When peace comes it ^vill be
time enough to think of politics. And what is to
become of me if I am to remain here doincr nothing
my life ? Here I am neither English nor French,
nor boy, nor man. I cannot fight for my king —
let me at least draw my sword for my country ! '
And with this Charles plumped down on his knees,
as people sometimes did in those days when they
were strongly moved and wanted a thing very
badly.

Hum,' muttered the Marquis, stroking his
chin. ' Your mother has to some extent prepared
me for this outbreak. It is a point upon which
we had better understand each other clearly and

finally. In the meantime you may as well rise ;
for your attitude will not affect the matter one
way or the other, and your frame is too large to
adapt itself readily to constrained postures. Will
you now take a seat and be so good as to favour
me with your attention for a few minutes? What
you propose to do is to enter the service of a man
who has usurped the throne of your sovereign —
that is to say, to commit the crime of high treason,
an offence punishable with death. To ask me ta
sanction such a course is to ask me to consent to
the degradation of our name — which is simply
absurd. I do not, however, lay any prohibition
upon you. You are of an age to be capable of
deciding upon your own course of action. If you
can bring yourself to dishonour your father and
be a traitor to your king, go. If you think you
will not be disgracing your family by caracoling
through Europe at the heels of an obscure and
theatrical Corsican whom unparalleled events have
raised for a time to the position of a successful
Robespierre, by all means go. But do not, at any
future time, expect me to intercede on your behalf;
and remember that, in the event of your taking
this step, I shall cease immediately and for ever to
be in any way responsible for the result.'

This was not very encoui-aging, but it was
more than Charles had expected.

Many years afterwards, when he himself was
old and grey-headed, he described the scene to his
children, and explained that the old Marquis was
in the habit of expressing himself forcibly, and did
not expect his words to be taken quite in a literal
sense. 'I think he saw,' the narrator would say, 'that
it was rather hard upon a young fellow, such as I
was then, to be forced to sit idle with his hands
in his lap, whilst others of his age were field-officers,
and had been through two or three campaigns.
Only he could not give an actual consent
to my wearing the unison of the Emperor, but
preferred to let me do so upon my own responsibility.
If I had known that I should see him but
seldom, and my mother never again, after that
day, I might have hesitated about leaving them ;
but I was young, and troubled myself very little
about the future, thinking only of glory and the
wars.'

To the wars M. Charles accordingly went ;
and thus we find him, about a year later, charging
gallantly as a lieutenant of Hussars at the battle
of Auerstadt, where he would very likely have
distinguished himself more, had not a splinter of a
VOL. I. c

shell laid open his side early in the action, breaking
three of his ribs, and nearly putting an end,
then and there, to his military career.

Nor were the adverse fates contented with
striking this devoted youth so sharp a corporeal
blow, but must needs proceed to direct their
arrows against the less easily curable region of the
heart. For when poor Charles was sufficiently recovered
of his wound to drag a feeble and emaciated
body by slow stages in the direction of
France, it so chanced that he made a halt at
Coblenz, and there fell in with a lovely and fascinating
Louise, daughter of the Due and Duchesse
de Joigny, a highly aristocratic couple, whom the
Revolution had forced to fix their home for a time
in that dreary town. JN ow the Due, who was bored
in his exile to the extent of almost dislocating his
noble jaws by continual yawns, was glad enough
to have the opportunity of showing some kindness
to the son of his old friend, the Marquis de Mersac,-
and, at the same time, of satisfying his own curiosity
as to the appearance, habits, and manners of
the great man upon whom the eyes of the world
were, at that time, eagerly fixed. Charles de
Mersac, fresh from the battle-field, would, he
thought, be the very man to give him the gossiping

information for which he longed ; and it never
occurred to him to suspect that the young soldier's
ready acceptance of his proffered hospitality was
prompted by any other feeling than a desire for
intellectual conversation and refined companionship.
To chat over the late campaign with one
who had taken part in it, and to state in detail
his own political views to a patient and courteous
listener, was an amusement in which, faute de
mieiLv, the old gentleman was willing to indulge
for an unlimited period ; but the idea that one
who had so far forgotten himself as to wear the
uniform of the usurper, should aspire to become
his son-in-law was evidently preposterous — particularly
when, as in the present case, the individual
in question had but slender means and doubtful
prospects.

The result of this way of looking at things on
the part of the Due de Joigny was that M. Charles
left Coblenz rather suddenly, one bright summer
morning in the year 1806, taking with him an
exceedingly beautiful miniature slung round his
neck by a blue ribbon, and that the fair Louise
wept for twenty-four hours, more or less, after his
departure.

All things considered, the next six years of

Charles de Mersac's life may be said to have been
tolerably happy. At least, the element of excitement
was not wanting in them. He returned to
active service, and was wounded over and over
again under Masses and Soult in the Peninsula.
Moreover he obtained the Cross of the Legion of
Honour, and rose to the rank of Colonel. Danger
was his delight, and neither pain, nor sickness, nor
hunger, nor even defeat could sadden him ; for
he wore always next his heart the miniature he
had carried away from Coblenz. He was naturally
of a healthy, sanguine temperament, and
doubted not that she who had sworn to remain
faithful to him through good report and evil report
would keep her vow as religiously as he had
kept his. So that when he returned from Spain
to Paris, invalided, in the year 1812, and weak
from the effects of a long fever, the news that
Louise de Joigny had been for some time the wife
of the old Due de Breuil, whose estates were
almost as broad as his descent was long, was
near being the death of him.

But though disappointment is a hard thing to
bear, and treachery cuts deep, and the sudden
wreck of the hopes and dreams of six years may

seem to overwhelm a man for a time, yet these
are ills which have seldom been known to prove
mortal. De Mersac did not die ; but he set outwith
the Grand Army for Russia with a heavy
heart, hoping for nothing better than that some
stray bullet might relieve him of a world which
he had now found to be altogether cruel, selfish,
and deceitful.

That disastrous campaign proved to be his
last. At the battle of Borodino he lost his sabre-arm,
and there took leave of soldiering for good
and all.

Brave as he was, and in spite of the philosophy
with which he had already accustomed himself to
look upon the vicissitudes of life, this last blow
went very near to crushing de Mersac's spirit. He
never loved to speak of the time that followed,
when he lived with his father in the dull old house
at Hampstead, which (his mother being now dead)
had lost all attraction for him. Nevertheless he
made the best of things, after his usual fashion,
setting himself to learn how to use his left hand ;
and so well did he succeed in this, that, in the
year 1814, when his father had departed to Paris
to claim his estates, and become a high dignitary

at the court of Louis le Desire, he was able to
write with tolerable ease and rapidity, and needed
no one to cut up his dinner for him.

It now became necessary that he should be
presented to the King of France ; and the prospect
of this ceremony cost the old Marquis many
a sleepless night, it being so very uncertain how
that monarch would receive so erring a member
of his faithful aristocracy.

The interview, however, passed off more
smoothly than might have been expected.

They tell me you are covered with wounds,
sir,' said the King on that memorable occasion,
and that you have gained little except a decoration.
That is a poor reward for so many years
of devoted service.'

I fought for France, Sire,' replied de Mersac,
who did not like Louis Xvii, and could never
be brought to address him with a tithe of the respect
he had shown to his mighty predecessor.

The old Marquis made a grimace when he
heard this curt answer ; but the King laughed
good-naturedly.

The whole nation did as you have done,' he
said. ' But the nation has returned to its allegiance,
and so have you. I regret very much that

circumstances have deprived the army of the services
of so brave an officer ; but, if you do not
disdain civil employment, you may yet be able to
serve your country', M. le Colonel.'

The upshot of this was that a diplomatic
appointment was conferred upon the gallant
Colonel ; and in this branch of the public service
he remained, dong his work creditably, though
without much personal distinction, till the death
of the King.

He was sitting over his breakfast at the small
German Court to which he was accredited, one
morning, shortly after the news of that deplored
event had reached him, when his servant laid two
letters on the table before him. He took one of
them and broke the seal. It contained a brief
intimation that his Majesty, King Charles X., had
no further occasion for his services. ' Aha ! ' said
de Mersac, ' I expected as much. M. le Comte
artois has little love for those who wear neither
pigtails nor soutanes.' Then he opened the other
letter, and over that he sighed more than once ;
for it announced the sudden death of the old
Marquis ; and though the father and son had
never had much sympathy with one another, the
latter was a man of stronger affections than the

generality of mankind ; and to find oneself quite
alone in the world, at a period of life when most
men have a wife and children to take the place of
the last generation, is enough to afford matter for
sad reflection to the most philosophic mind.

And now the new Marquis de Mersac did a
thing so grievous and scandalous that his name
became a word of warning throughout the Faubourg
St. Germain, and moans over his conduct
were heard in the highest quarters. He actually-sold
his ancestral estates. It was considered no
palliation of this crime that the culprit was driven
thereto by what he chose to consider the necessity
of paying the heavy debts bequeathed to him by
his late father. The old Due de Chateauvieux, to
whom he ventured to put forward this excuse
had scarcely the patience to listen to him.

Sir,' said he, ' there are certain lines of action
which nothing can justify. As you are aware, I
have never been one of those who condemned you
and others, who were then young men, for wearing
the uniform of Buonaparte. You obeyed then a
natural and not ignoble impulse. But what you
have done now will alienate from you the sympathies
of every man who respects himself. One
raises money, parbleu ! — one borrows — one mortgages

— one remains in debt — but sell one's estates
! — never ! '

Families descensus Averni! Having started
with so prodigious a downward step, what could
be expected but that the Marquis de Mersac should
plunge still deeper into the abyss of disgrace ?
His friends were grieved rather than surprised
when they heard that the misguided man had invested
his remaining capital in trade, and had
entered into partnership with a low-born West
Indian merchant. After that it was a relief to
learn that he had crossed the Atlantic to look after
the interests of his business, and that Parisian
society would no longer be shocked by the visible
presence of the criminal.

Parisian society saw him no more ; but those
whose memory carries them back as far as the
London seasons of 1838 and 1839 may recollect
having met pretty frequently a stalwart, repaired,
one-armed French gentleman, who bore
the title of Marquis de Mersac, and who was understood
to have amassed a moderate fortune in the
West Indies.

This gentleman was very well received by the
leaders of fashion in our metropolis, being, as was
well known, the representative of one of the oldest

families in France, and having, besides, a comfortable
fortune, agreeable manners, and an engaging
presence. Among the men he speedily acquired
popularity by his skill in horsemanship — a science
which then, as now, was not considered in this
country to be one of the strong points of his
nation ; while the ladies could not sufficiently
praise his old-fashioned, courtly politeness, his
readiness to oblige any one of them, old or young,
handsome or plain, and a certain youthful sprightliness
which yet clung to him in spite of his fifty-six
years.

It was a surprise to his friends — perhaps a
little disappointment to some of them — to hear
that he was about to be married to a certain Miss
Moreton, a plain-featured orphan, who already, at
the age of six-and-twenty, had assumed something
of the demeanour and habits of an old maid. It
was thought that the handsome Marquis, old ashe
was, might have done better ; but he never had
reason himself to regret his choice. His wife — a
good, meek, and somewhat characterless person,
who adored him — behaved herself throughout her
married life in an entirely exemplary manner.
She embraced his religion, agreed in all his
opinions — even before he uttered them — accompanied

him without a murmur to the African colony,
whither his longing for occupation of some kindled
him ; and there, some time after such an event
had ceased to appear probable, made him the
father of a little girl, who eventually grew up into
the stately young lady whom we saw just now
gazing over the garden wall. Two years later an
heir to the title of De Mersac saw the light ; and
shortly after the accomplishment of this latter feat,
Madame la Marquise, with a happy consciousness
that, in an unobtrusive way, she had done what
was required of her by God and man in this world,
slipped gently out of it.

The dower was for some time very disconsolate.
Like many other apparent nonentities,
Madame la Marquise had been a helpful and valuable
creature in her own restricted sphere; and
her husband found that his loss had cast upon him
many new responsibilities, not the least of which
was the care and education of a couple of small
children — a task for which he felt himself to be in
no way qualified. Help was, however, in store
for him in the carrying out of this last duty.
Early in the days of this mourning a very old friend
of his appeared unexpectedly upon the scene. A
series of trivial circumstances — a slight attack of

bronchitis in the first place, a quarrel with her
doctor at Nice in the second, and a general weariness
of familiar localities in the third — induced the
Duchesse de Breuil to visit Algiers ; and, hearing
that M. de Mersac had taken up his abode in the
neighbourhood of the town, she hastened to renew
her acquaintance with him, after an interruption
of over forty years.

The former lovers met again, as one may
imagine, with a shock of surprise, half pleasant,
half painful, with a stirring of many old memories,
and a faint throbbing of wounds long since healed
over by merciful Time. Between the handsome,
wasp-waisted young hussar of Jena and the
bronzed, grey-headed farmer of El-bear — between
the lovely, innocent Louise de Joigny and the
Duchesse de Breuil, a grande dame who had
played no inconsiderable part in the political and
social history of her country till she had been
shouldered aside to make room for the satellites of
a new regime — between 1806 and 1850, what a
difference ! They were, to all intents and purposes,
strangers to one another, and yet bound
together by a tie which both, in the sunset of their
lives, were eager to acknowledge. The ghost of
their dead youth rose up between them and joined

their trembling old hands. The Marquis showed
his old flame the miniature which had accompanied
him through all his campaigns and wanderings
; and the old lady sighed over it, and cried a
little. This work of art is now in the possession
of the present Marquis ; and at the back of it,
under the velvet of the frame, still remains a
scrap of paper, on which is written, in faded
ink, ' Toujours fidele : Cohleiice^ 1806,' . an
inscription of which the irony may have often
struck its original owner.

The Duchess, homeless, childless, and nearly
friendless — for she did not happen to be upon
good terms with the inheritor of her husband's
title and estates, and had no near relation of her
own family — was, without much difficulty, persuaded
to take the lease of a villa adjoining that
which was now known as the Campagne de Mersac.
She said it would be useful to her as a winter
residence ; but by degrees her absences became
less and less frequent, and ever of shorter duration,
till at last it was understood that she considered
her home to be in Algeria. She took a great
interest in the children of her old admirer, and
charged herself with such elements of their bring
king-up as generally fall to a mother's lot. Leon

was her favourite ; as was perhaps natural, seeing
that the Marquis displayed a marked partiality for
the little Jeanne.

And so the years slipped by, and the Duchesse
de Breuil became, in some sense, a member of the
de Mersac household. Leon declares that his
father and the Duchess used to flirt outrageously,
and that he never could understand why they did
not marry ; but Leon is a flippant young man,
and often says foolish things. It was Louise de
Joigny, and not the Duchesse de Breuil, with whom
the old Marquis had been in love ; and though he
had a very sincere admiration and respect for the
latter lady, it may be doubted whether, in his
heart of hearts, he ever connected her very closely
with the former. The friendship of the two old
people was probably not the less strong for the
romantic memories which a word or a hint from
either of them could summon up into the thoughts
of the other, as children by holding a shell to their
ear catch echoes of its native waves ; but the
romance itself had vanished long since beyond
recalling, and was no more a reality nov than the
sea in the shell. He, being obliged to be often
away from home by the exigencies of his farming
operations and of his latest hobby, the breeding

of horses, thanked Heaven that he could leave his
children in the care of a lady, while she was not
less grateful for the new interests which preserved
her old age from utter loneliness. But for this
reciprocity of benefit, it is probable that the Chances
of 1806 would not have renewed their intimacy.

The Marquis survived his wife about a dozen
years. A malarious fever, contracted at his stud-farm
in the Metidja plain, proved fatal to him in
the long run, chiefly owing to neglect. He had
an iron constitution, and from his youth up had
been accustomed to treat all maladies, as the Irishman
treated the measles, ' with contempt ; ' but at
eighty years of age it does not take much to kill a
man, and so the Marquis failed to rally from his-third
bout of the fever.

His death left the immediate future of his
children in some uncertainty ; for though Fan-cette,
the old niu-se, was an excellent and devoted
creature, it would scarcely have been advisable
that they should be left under her sole care ; and
the only guardian appointed for them was M. de
Fontvieille, an old widower, who spent his time
between Algiers and Paris, and had no establishment
of his own. To the immense relief of this
old gentleman, who had been greatly perturbed

by the responsibility thus cast upon him, the
Duchesse de Breuil came forward with a solution
of the difficulty, proposing to take up her abode
with the children of her old friend, and to treat
them in every respect as her own, so long as her
life should be spared. This seemed a highly
satisfactory arrangement ; but, before finally acceding
to it, M. de Fontvieille thought it right to
put himself in communication with the few near
relations of the orphans — some cousins, resident
in Auvergne, and a Mrs. Ashley, a younger sister
of the late Marquise. The hearty and unreserved
approval of the scheme which reached him, by
return of post, from both these quarters, made
him chuckle sardonically ; for he was a somewhat
cynical old fellow, and enjoyed nothing more than
some fresh proof of the selfishness and insincerity
of his fellow-creatures. He took up his hat, his
snuff-box, and the two letters, and presented
himself in the drawing-room of his friend the
Duchess.

Madame,' said he, bending over her hand in
his old-fashioned way, ' you are free to carry out
your benevolent intentions : the family will not
oppose itself to you. They had been eager to
welcome their young relations, but they think

themselves bound to consult the dear children's
wishes rather than their own.'

*No one cares to add two strangers to his
family,' observed the Duchess, more charitably ;
to most people such a necessity would be a misfortune
; to me, as it happens, it is a blessing.'

So she packed up her belongings, and moved
from her villa to the Campagne de Mersac, where
she was received with unfeigned joy. The young
people were fond of her, and infinitely preferred
remaining in the old horne, under her tutelage, to
going among strangers ; and she, on her side,
loved them, and did her duty by them, according
to her lights.

With Jeanne she was not able to feel much
sympathy. The girl's inordinate grief at her father's
death — a grief which showed itself in no violent
form, but only by pallor, listlessness, heavy eyes,
and a morbid shrinking from all amusements —
puzzled her at first, and then irritated her. To
show feeling in such a case, the Duchess admitted,
was only proper and becoming ; but then feeling
should be manifested in recognised ways, otherwise
one did not know how to deal with it, and it became
an absolute nuisance. It was not natural
that a girl of fifteen should mope and mourn for

VOL. I. D

a twelvemonth and more because things had taken
their natural course, and her father had gone to
his long home after reaching the extreme limit of
life accorded to man by the Psalmist. Moreover,
Jeanne was so proud, so reserved, so perfectly
imperturbable, that the Duchess, who was secretly
a little afraid of her, was conscious of a disinclination,
which strengthened as the years went on, to
tell her of her faults ; and this, as everyone must
allow, is a sad obstacle in the way of any real
cordiality of intercourse.

So, although the Duchess and Jeanne were,
upon the whole, very good friends, by far the
larger share of the former lady's affections was
given to Leon, who certainly possessed what most
people would consider a more loveable character
than that of his sister. The education of the young
Marquis was conducted entirely at home — a system
not uncommon in France, and one perhaps
less disadvantageous to a boy in that country than
in this. The Cure of El-bear grounded him in
his own language and in Latin, and continued to
superintend his daily lessons till he had reached an
age which was considered sufficiently advanced to
warrant the engagement of a tutor for him;
Madame la Duchesse (who had every reason to

consider herself eminently qualified for the task)
instructed him in manners and deportment ; M.
de Fontvieille (^\ith no less confidence in his
capacity) imparted to him a knowledge of men
and things, derived from many years' philosophical
study of an infinitesimal section of
humanity ; and Pierre Cauvin, a shrewd old
Auvergnat, who had been his father's factotum
ever since the first purchase of the Algerian property,
taught him agriculture and the art of breaking
horses. And all these good people adored
and spoiled him in the most inexcusable manner.
The consequence of their co-operation was
much what might have been anticipated — or perhaps
it ought rather to be said that it was better
than might have been anticipated. At the time
our story' opens Leon was a singularly handsome
young fellow of one-and-twenty, tall, broad-shouldered,
sunburnt, a very fair shot, a good dancer,
and a really excellent rider. He was tolerably
well read, and quick at catching up any scraps of
Information that might come in his way. His
manner, always that of the old school, had, towards
strangers, a considerable tinge of frigidity and
hauteur \ but in the family circle he was given
to be talkative, and expressed his views upon all

d2

matters with perfect freedom. He placed, indeed,
a somewhat exaggerated estimate upon the value
of his own opinions ; as was not unnatural, considering
the nature of his training. That he did
not grow up an insufferable young prig was
probably owing partly to the bracing effects of
out-door life and the constant contact with unmanageable
agricultural difficulties, partly to a
certain hereditary simplicity of disposition, and
finally to the influence of his sister Jeanne, the
only person in the world of whom he felt any awe,
and who loved him far too well to flatter him.
Taking him altogether, he bade fair to become no
unworthy representative of a fine old Legitimist
family ; and, feeling this, the Duchess and M. de
Fontvieille looked upon the result of their labours
and were content.

CHAPTEE n.

IN TVHICH Jeanne HAS A Disappointment.

Mademoiselle de Mersac, whose character exhibited
a good many traits of a kind more or less
puzzling to her Mends, was in nothing more incomprehensible
to them than in her prolonged
and voluntary spinsterhood. A young lady of the
quasi-mature age of three-and-twenty, beautiful,
well-dowered, of excellent family, and still unmarried,
is no ordinary phenomenon in French
society ; but then Mademoiselle de Mersac was
not an ordinary person, nor were her circumstances
ordinary circumstances. Had she occupied a
position analogous to that of her neighbours, her
matrimonial affairs would, of course, have been
arranged for her long since by provident parents ;
but Fate had decreed that she should make her
debut in society as an orphan, and, further, that
she should do so in the exceptional character of
absolute mistress of her own destinies. For the

late Marquis de Mersac, influenced by this English
education, his English wife, and also perhaps by-certain
melancholy experiences of his own, had
harboured, and frequently expressed, an intention
that his daughter should choose her husband for
herself a la mode anglaise. Whether, after his
death, his desires would have been respected by
the Duchesse de Breuil (who, for her part, thought
them eminently injudicious), lead that lady possessed
the power of opposing them, is at least open
to doubt ; but, happily or unhappily for Jeanne,
she had no such power. Mademoiselle de Mersac's
marriage portion Alas, by her father's will, held intrust
for her till the day of her wedding or the
completion of her thirtieth year, at either of which
dates it became her absolute property ; and thus,
as the Duchess sometimes complained bitterly to
her intimate friends, there was nothing to prevent
the young lady from marrying a negro if she felt
so disposed. By what possible means any further
restriction could have been laid upon her young
protegee the Duchess did not stop to inquire ; but
it was a sad reflection to her that the only weapon
at her disposal for coercing Jeanne into a suitable
alliance was that of moral force, and a still sadder
that this weapon had hitherto proved a wholly

ineffectual one. She did what she could. Lie
brought forward suitor after suitor of the most
unexceptionable sort ; but Jeanne would have
nothing to say to any of them, and showed herself
completely impervious to persuasion, scolding, or
tears.

You will kill me with your wicked obstinacy ! '
the poor old Duchess would cry after each of her
periodical failures ; and then Jeanne would kiss
her, wipe away her tears and comfort her, as a
mother comforts a fractious child. But the
Duchess, of course, did not die of vexation, and.
equally of course, Jeanne did not give way.

Algerian society, busying itself about its neighbours'
concerns with no less gusto than all other
human communities, great and small, had several
explanations of Mademoiselle de Mersac's conduct
to offer. Some said she had formed an unfortunate
attachment ; others had discovered that the
one passion of her nature was an insatiable ambition,
and that she aspired to some more splendid
alliance than could be looked for in a colony :
while the more charitable declared that she had
vowed to sacrifice her life to taking care of the
interests and well-being of her brother, to wlioni
her devotion was notorious, and whose habits, indeed,

had of late shown some dawning symptoms
of needing judicious supervision. Nobody, of
course, accepted the young lady's own assertion
that she had not yet met a man whom she cared
to contemplate as a husband, because nobody ever
does accept the most natural and probable solution
of an enigma. It happened, however, to be
true.

At the same time, there was some foundation
for the statement that her brother's happiness,
rather than her own, was the chief aim and object
of Jeanne's existence. She had naturally strong
affections, and loved her species as well as most
of us and a good deal better than some ; but she
had not the power of interesting, or seeming to
interest, herself in the trivial concerns of people
of whom she knew nothing ; her manner was often
cold, and when she felt bored, she looked bored.
She was not, therefore, by any means universally
popular; nor, to tell the truth, did she greatly
covet popularity. Intimate friends she had none,
and, never having had any, did not regret their
absence. All the more did she long for the love
of those whom she herself loved ; and of this very
select few, Leon was, after her father's death, by
far the most important person. From his babyhood

the boy had been her especial charge, and,
though she was by so Httle his senior, her influence
and authority over him were greater than those of
many a mother over her son. By instinct probably
as much as by judgment she managed to
maintain that influence up to a time at which the
generality of young men have little respect for
their sisters' opinions. At the age of one-and-twenty
Leon had not abandoned the habit of consulting
Jeanne in every difficulty ; and if he had
any secrets from her, they were as yet few. In
matters connected with farming he woifld as soon
have thought of applying for advice to one of his
Arab grooms as to either of the excellent old
people who stood towards him, in some sort, in
the relation of parents ; but he seldom sold a
horse, or bought a strip of land, or concluded a
bargain of any kind, without having first taken
his sister's opinion ; and he was not far wrong,
for Jeanne had been at infinite pains to inform
herself upon all subjects affecting her brother's
welfare, and was not to be taken in as to the value
of horse or land by any sharp customer, whether
Christian or heathen.

Nor, while looking after Leon's pecuniary
interests, was Jeanne insensible to the advisability

of his seeing something more of men and the
world than he could do in Algeria. She had
several battles to fight on this point with M. de
Fontvieille, who had seen the world in his time,
and thought that young men were best kept out of
it ; and with the Duchess, who considered that the
world had virtually come to an end with the deposition
of Charles X., or at least that it was passing
through a period of interregnum during which
people of quality could but shrug their shoulders
and ignore it. She carried her point, however,
as quiet, persistent folks commonly do ; and thus
the young Marquis was permitted from time to
time to make journeys to Paris, upon one pretext
or another ; and derived therefrom amusement,
experience, and possibly some elements of ultimate
profit.

The periods of his absence were always dietary
ones for Jeanne ; and on the ]particular occasion
on which we have to make lier acquaintance, lie
was more than ordinarily anxious for the wanderer's
return, both because he had been longer
away than usual, and because Ins trip had, this
time, extended as far as England, whither he lead
gone with the double object of purchasing certain
articles of farm machinery and of introducing

himself to the surviving members of his mother's
family. Mademoiselle de Mersac, whose imperturbability
was mistaken by most of her friends
for indifference, possessed (under proper control)
■a very fair share of feminine inquisitiveness, and
she thought she would enjoy her breakfast more
if she put off eating it till she Alas able to combine
the necessary support of the flesh with gratification
of some legitimate curiosity as to the appearance
and manners of these unknown English
cousins.

She paced slowly up and down the gravel
paths, pausing every now and again to bend her
beautiful face over a freshly-opened rose or to
pull up a weed from the well-kept border. She
was not in a mood for occupation, and preferred
remaining out of doors, though the breeze had
died away and the sun was beating down with a
force which would have driven most people to seek
for shade. But Jeanne, unlike the generality of
Southerners, had no fear of the sun's rays. She
seated herself presently upon a low bench, and
contemplated with dreamy satisfaction the broad,
glittering stretch of sea which no longer separate d
her from her brother.

The air was hushed and drowsy ; there was

not a breath of wind to set the bananas and bamboos
whispering ; the fountain had ceased to play
(for water is a precious commodity in Algeria, and
must not be too unsparingly made use of) ; the
house, behind whose closely-shut green persiennes
Madame la Duchesse was even now making her
toilette with the assistance of her maid, was silent
as the grave. Only, from the distant stables,
came the sound of an occasional stamp or a half-smothered
hinny. The world was taking its noonday
siesta ; and it almost seemed to Jeanne as if
old Time himself had yielded to the slumberous
influence, and was indulging himself with a short
nap, so slowly did the minutes move. At length,
after having consulted her watch half-a-dozen
times, and held it to her ear to ascertain that it
had not stopped, she made a brief calculation.

Ten minutes to get on shore — a quarter of an
hour at the Custom-house — half an hour to canter
up the hill — and, say, another ten minutes to talk
to any friends he may meet in the town — that
makes an hour and five minutes,' she murmured.
According to that, he ought to be here almost
immediately.'

And, sure enough, before the words were well
past her lips, there came from the distance a sound

which made her start to her feet — the steady trot,
trot of a couple of horses upon the high road.
More faintly for a moment or two, then loud and
clear again came the rhythmic beat of the hoofs,
drawing rapidly nearer and nearer till they halted
at length within a few yards of the anxious
listener's ear. The creaking gates swung open ;
there was a stamping and crushing of the gravel ;
and Jeanne, stepping out from behind the cypresses
which bordered the avenue, with a glad
smile of welcome illumining her face, met — a well-mounted
Arab groom conducting a led horse.

The man pulled up at once, threw his leg
over his horse's head, slid to the ground, thrust
his hand into one of the pockets of his baggy
breeches, and, after fumbling for a time in apparently
unfathomable depths, captured a scrap
of paper which, with a low bow, he held out to
his young mistress. Jeanne took it, and read the
following words, hastily scrawled in pencil : ' Arrived
safe and sound. Saint-Luc has persuaded
me to breakfast with him at the Hotel d' Orient.
Shall be with you before dinner-time. I embrace
you a thousand times. — Leon. If you were inclined
to be very amiable you might just walk
round to the yard, and see that Hamid lets the

grey cool before taking off his saddle. You know
what the rascal is ; and I cannot afford to have
another horse marked for life by a sore back

Jeanne had at all times an almost perfect command
of feature. With a heart aching with disappointment
and mortification, and a sense of
injury somewhat greater perhaps than her brother's
thoughtless offence merited, she was nevertheless,
to all outward seeming, entirely unmoved. She
folded up the scrap of paper deliberately, dismissed
the untrustworthy Hamid with a smile and
a nod, and presently, in pursuance of the directions
she had received, followed him to the stable-yard.
A colony of dogs, large and small, came
out to meet her, and cringed at her feet, or leapt
up upon her, according to their several ages and
characters ; a jackal, chained to his kennel, flew
wildly backwards and forwards, at the utmost
limit of his tether, till he choked and nearly made
himself sick ; a wild boar, also chained, bounced
out from a barrel, in which he had been concealed,
and stood blinking his angry little red eyes, and
snorting a welcome ; and a peacock, after sidling
doubtfully round the outskirts of the canine escort
and establishing his authority by one or two
savage pecks at a small woolly pup, swept up to

her side with the conscious dignity of an assured
favourite. She had a caress for each and all of
them ; it was never Jeanne's way to vent her
vexation upon her surroundings. She scratched
the boar's back with the tip of her parasol, reasoned
with the impetuous jackal, played with
the dogs, and fed the peacock just as usual ; and it
was not until she had seen the grey horse led away
into his stable that she turned and walked slowly
towards the house. A huge white Pyrenean dog,
the only one of the pets who had the privilege of
crossing the threshold, stalked solemnly after her.
Meeting her old nurse in the hall, she begged
her to order breakfast, mentioning that M. Leon
had arrived safely, but that he would not be home
before dinner-time. ' Did I not tel you so ? *
cried Fanchette triumphantly. But Jeanne made
no reply. What Fanchette's prediction might
have been did not seem to her a matter of much
importance ; the lamentable fact was that her
brother had preferred the company of a chance
acquaintance to her own ; and she was foolish
enough to take this slight so much to heart that it
was only with difficulty that she managed to
swallow a small portion of the repast which was
shortly set before her.

«

This task accomplished, she rose from the
table and betook herself to the drawing-room
followed by Tiirco, the hound before mentioned.

The salon of the Campagne de Mersac was the
pride of its owners and the envy of its neighbours.
It was in the older portion of the building, of
which, indeed, it occupied the entire length ; and,
after the usual Moorish plan, was oblong in shape
and had a deep recess, or marabout jutting out
on either side. One of these, which had several
narrow, pointed windows commanding a wide
view of the sea, was partly filled by a mass of
ferns and flowering plants, while that facing it
had been fitted up as a small library, and displayed
well-bound editions of Racine, Corneille, Montesquieu,
Fenton, and other unexceptionable writers ;
for the Duchesse de Breuil did not approve of
indiscriminate reading for young people, and kept
such unprofitable modern works as she required
for her own amusement carefully under lock and
key upstairs. The room was rather dark owing
to the smallness of the windows and the great
thickness of the walls — for here, as always, the
design of the old Moorish builders had been to exclude
sunshine and heat — but it was not too dark ;
only pleasantly dim, cool, and silent, and the

delicate tracery of the white plaster arabesques on
the walls showed to greater advantage in the
semi-obscurity than it would have done in a
stronger light. The glazed blue and white tiles
of the floor had not been altogether hidden from
view by a carpet, as is the case in some Algerian
houses ; but some handsome Turkey rugs had
been placed here and there, and there were two
fine lion-skins, trophies of the success of the old
Marquis's gun in the days of his early life in the
African colony. The furniture, though not very
fresh or modern in type, was solid and comfortable
; nor was there any lack of luxurious sofas
and arm-chairs.

Beside the fireplace, where a wood fire was
blazing cheerfully, stood a deep, low fauteuil
which Jeanne .now proceeded to prepare for the
only person who was ever permitted to occupy it.
She arranged the cushions, dragged up a footstool
and a small table, on which last she placed a vase
full of fresh roses, and then, stationing herself in
the marabout stood, with her hands behind her
back, gazing out rather sadly on the sunny prospect
till the rustle of a silk dress behind her made
her turn round.

A little, bent, withered old lady, beautifully

VOL. I. E

(Tressed, came in, leaning on a stick, and glanced
sharply from side to side. Then lie walked
straight up to Turco, who was lying outstretched
in the middle of the room flapping his tail
sleepily in token of welcome, and prodded him
in the ribs.

That dog has sworn to bring about my death,*
said she, shaking her stick at the delinquent.
He knows very well that a fall would be fatal at
my age, and that I cannot see two inches before
my nose, when I come into this dark room from
outside ; and so lie deliberately places himself in
my path, hoping that I shall trip over him, comedown,
and break every bone in my body. Fortunately,
Nature has made him white ; if he had
been a brown or a black monster, I should have
been in the Kingdom of Heaven months ago.'

Jeanne advanced and kissed the old lady's
hand, after the graceful old fashion to which she
had been trained, and led her to her armchair.

The Duchess sank down among the cushions,
arranged her dress so that it fell in graceful folds
about her, placed her tiny feet upon the footstool,
and then, raising her eyebrows interrogatively —

And Leon? ' said she.

'He will not be home before dinner-time,'

answered Jeanne. ' Hamid brought me a lieu'
from him to say that he had arrived, but that
he was stopping to breakfast in the town.'

To breakfast in the town ! ' echoed the old
lady sharply; 'why should he do that? It is
not kind — it is a want of respect to nie. Oh, my
dear, I understand wluU you mean by your calm
face ! To you a few hours more or less may
seem a small matter ; but at my age every moment
of time has its value ; and besides that, I don't
like to think that my boy cares so little about
seeing us again that he is ready to turn aside, as
soon as he lands, to breakfast With the first one
he meets. Who is his friend ? '

M. de Saint-Luc, I believe.'

The Duchess's features relaxed perceptibly.
Well, well,' she said, ' he might have remembered
that we should be longing to embrace him ; but
yoimg men will be thoughtless ; and at least I am
glad that he chooses his friends well. That M. (!<-
Saint-Luc is charming — quite charming ! '

There is a certain method of assertion, as
everybody knows, which seems to court denial ; and
there is a certain kind of silence which is infinitely
more aggravating than the flattest contradiction.
The Duchess found her encomium on M. de Sainte

2

^'^;;;s.n of .amos

Luc met with such imperturbable and emphatic
speechlessness on the part of Jeanne that she could
not help adding, with a considerable spice of
irritability —

You do not like M. de Saint-Luc. But this
is of course. If a man be clever, gentlemanly,
agreeable, superior to the ordinary run — if he
please me, in short — that is sufficient. You ask
no better reason for honouring him with your
detestation.'

Jeanne smiled slightly, and put a fresh log
upon the fire.

After all,' resumed the Duchess, ' what can
you have to say against M. de Saint-Luc ? '

'I have said nothing against him, madame,'
replied Jeanne, who, it must be allowed, was far
more exasperating at times than she had any
knowledge or intention of being.

No ; but you look as if you could say a
great deal if you chose, and that is much worse.
And it is ridiculous, too, because it is impossible
that you can know anything to his disadvantage.'


The latter part of this remark was made in so
interrogative a tone that Jeanne could scarcely
avoid making some reply to it. So she said in

her slow, desperate way, ' I do not think him a
good friend for Leon.'

The Duchess emitted a short, high laugh.
In that case of course there is nothing more to
be said. Your knowledge of the world is so great,
your experience is naturally so much larger than
mine, you are so well acquainted with the private
lives of young men, that it only remains for us to
warn Leon against having anything further to do
with M. de Saint-Luc'

Speeches of this kind seldom annoyed Jeanne.
she had too little amour propre to be sting by
such tiny shafts of sarcasm.

'I have already done that,' she remarked
quietly.

Really ! and in spite of that it seems that
Leon persists in choosing his own friends for himself
]weight one venture to inquke what M. de
Saint-Luc has done to incur your dislike ? '

'I neither like nor dislike him,' answered
Jeanne, with a slight disdainful gesture ; ' I care
nothing about him. But I do not think his company
is likely to do Leon any good. He is a
gambler ; he has dissipated his fortune by betting
and card-playing in Paris.'

This happened to be true, and the Duchess

knew it. But she had her own reasons for wishing
to represent M. de Saint-Luc in a favourable
light.

Bah I follies of youth — what would you
have ? ' she returned, shrugging her shoulders.
The best of men are often a little walt at starting.
Look at our good M. de Fontvieille. I recollect
him as one of the most notorious rivers of his
day. M. de Saint-Luc will settle down, and
become as good a husband and father as a
thousand others.'

Very possibly,' said Jeanne. ' I was not
thinking of M. de Saint-Luc's future, but of his
influence upon Leon, whom you would hardly
Hke to see following his example.'

Leon is different,' answered the Duchess decisively.
' Leon is a man of principles : he will
not be easily lead astray.'

And this assertion Jeanne did not see fit to
contradict.

But I think,' resumed the Duchess, recurring,
after a pause, to her original grievance, ' I think
Leon should have paid me the compliment of
coming here before visiting other friends : age is
not respected now as it was in my time. He
might have remembered, too, that this is my

reception-day, and that it would be liiglily inconvenient
if he should present himself when the
room is full of people. If he should arrive early,
Jeanne, you must go out and keep him away till
I am alone ; I cannot let myself be agitated in
the presence of strangers. I have no longer the
strength that I once had ; and I begin to dread
this weekly crowd of visitors. It is only for your
sake, my child, that I continue to receive at all.
Were I living alone, I should shut myself up with
my books and my memories till the time came forme
to leave this weary world.'

CHAPTER III.

MONSIEUR LE MARQUIS.

It was the Diicliess's custom to speak plaintively
of the necessity she felt herself to be under of
mixing in Algerian society. ' A crowd of colonists,
of small officials, of officers en retraite and
their wives —judge whether I find the conversation
of these people amusing ! ' she would sigh sometimes
to her intimates. But in truth she greatly
enjoyed patronising the good folks of whom she
spoke so slightingly, and was happier on Monday
(which was her reception-day) than on any other
day of the seven. Nor was she wholly dependent
for companionship upon the three above-mentioned
classes. A few Legitimist families — offshoots,
more or less poverty-stricken, of the great houses
whose names they bore — had established themselves
in the neighbourhood of Algiers ; and of
their support in the fatiguing task of entertaining
her inferiors the Duchess was as sure as she was

of their affection and reverence. Surrounded by
these, the old lady held her little weekly court,
and dispensed smiles and frowns with all the judicious
tact of a reicrnincr sovereign. There had
been a time when the favourable notice of the
Duchesse de Breuil was not only a passport into
the highest circles of the Parisian world, but often
carried with it more substantial advantages ; but
those days were gone and well-nigh forgotten,
like the ministers, the great ladies, the oflSice-
seekers, and the toadies who had played their
little parts under Charles X., and had long since
been replaced by other sets of actors who knew
them not nor cared for them. Xow, in her old
age, it pleased the Duchess to think that some
remnant of power still clung to her, were it only
that of leading the most exclusive set in a colony.
If some of the younger and more fashionable
Algerian ladies laughed at her a little behind her
back, we may be sure that they controlled their
features and were mighty respectful in her presence ;
for, after all, a duchess of the old nobility is a
duchess, be she never so antiquated and overlooked
; and as Madame de Breuil's door was not
by any means open to all comers, such of the
officials of the Second Empire as she chose to receive

seldom missed an opportunity of paying
their respects to lier, and looked upon her recognition
of them as in some sort a brevet of
rank.

Monday afternoons, therefore, usually saw a
sufficiency of equipages and pedestrians toiling up
the hill to El-bear, and the particular Monday
afternoon with which we are concerned was no
exception to the general rule. Shortly before
four o'clock the visitors began to arrive, and soon
the room was nearly filled by a somewhat heterogeneous
assemblage. There were stern Legitimist
dames and sleek Imperial functionaries ; a turbaned
Moor and a dignitary of the Church ; a
Chasseur d'Afrique or two, resplendent in blue
and silver and scarlet ; and a sprinkling of
foreigners domiciled temporarily in Algiers by
the doctor's orders. A little posse of English ladies
had walked up from the town to pay their respects,
and displayed their stout walking-boots
and short dresses in blissful unconsciousness that
by presenting themselves in such a costume they
were committing a solecism in good manners
which nothing but a profound conviction of the
utter barbarity of their nation could have induced
the Duchess to pardon. These good people were

soon passed on to Jeanne, who liked the English
and spoke our language easily ; the Duchess preferred
that the place of honour beside her chair
should be occupied by some more entertaining
person. She enjoyed gossip, though she affected
to despise it, and seldom failed to glean a large
fund of amusement from her reception day. She
was probably the only person in the room who
did ; for visits of ceremony, which are dismal
affairs enough, heaven knows, in this country, are
ten times worse in France ; and the Duchess chose
that her receptions should maintain a character of
the strictest formality.

The ladies, who were grouped in the vicinity
of their hostess, seldom spoke unless she addressed
them ; their husbands, who sat in a band at a
short distance off, accurately dressed in frock-coats
and varnished boots, smoothed their chimneypot
hats and conversed together in an undertone ;
there was no laughter ; no one was, or was intended
to be, quite at his ease.

It was late in the afternoon, and a good many
of the Duchess's friends had already effected their
escape, when a lady was announced, at the sound
of whose name all the matrons present assumed an
aspect of extreme severity, while the Duchess herself

became very rigid about the backbone as she
rose slowly to receive her visitor.

How do you do, Madame de Tremonville ? '
said she, extending a little, lifeless hand.

The new-comer, a young and very pretty
woman, dressed in the extreme of the fashion, butin
perfect taste, took the stiff five fingers thus
proffered to her between both her own primrose-kicked
palms, and pressed them affectionately.

'Charmed to see you looking so well, dear
madame,' she murmured, in a soft, caressing voice.
*You grow younger— positively younger — every
year.'

I am an old woman,' answered the Duchess
curtly ; ' but my health is tolerably good, thank
God ! For the rest, I did not ruin my constitution
when I was young, like some people.'

Like me, rest-ce pas f Alas ! dear madame,
what would you ? There are some natures which
require excitement, and there are others which are
contented with mere existence. As for me, I
must be amused. If I shorten my life, ma foi !
so much the better : I could never endure to grow
old and ugly. Ah, Madame de Vaublanc, a thousand
pardons ! I did not see you. Pray do not
think of giving up your chair to me — well, if you

insist, I will take your place beside our dear
Duchess for a few minutes. Lie is a little deaf,
you know.'

And Madame de Tremonville sank into the
armchair vacated by the grim old lady to whom
she had addressed herself.

Now. as the Duchess was not in the least deaf,
as the chair at her side was never taken, even by
her most intimate friends, except by invitation,
and as its late occupant had never for a moment
entertained any notion of ceding it, it will be perceived
that Madame de Tremonville was a lady of
considerable assurance and aplomb. She sank,
not ungracefully, into the vacant place, and bent
forward towards the Duchess in such a manner
as almost to turn her back upon the rest of the
company.

And when,' she asked, after having monopolised
the attention of her hostess during a good
five minutes, to the immense disgust of the old
ladies, who sat grimly and silently surveying her,
and when may we hope for the return of om-little
Marquis ? '

It is of my godson that you speak, madame ?
We expect him to-day,' answered the Duchess in
her chest tone.

A la bonne heure ! He will bring us news
from Paris — ah ! just heaven, how I wish I were
back there ! — yes ; he will have news to tell us ;
and he is very naif and amusing, your little Marquis.
He used to honour my poor house with
his company tolerably often before he went away.
You know that I have the pretension to make him
into a good Buonaparte.'

At the calm effrontery of this speech a thrill
of horror pervaded the entire room, starting with
Madame de Vaublanc, and ending with little M.
Moineau, who was sitting alone near the door
rubbing his nose with his gold-headed cane, and
who shuddered from head to foot when the words,
which were spoken rather loudly, as if in sheer
bravado, reached his ear. He was himself a
staunch adherent of the established government —
by whose favour, indeed, lie held the small appointment
to which he was indebted for his daily
bread — but he would no more have dared to
allude to his political opinions in the presence of
Madame la Duchesse than to mention the Comte
de Chambord before his own chief.

The Duchess, however, showed no sign of
anger, but merely replied with a slight, disdainful

smile : ' I fear you have imposed upon yourself a
difficult task, madame.'

In truth the old lady did not think her antagonist
worth powder and shot, and honestly believed
that Madame de Tremonville belonged to a
class so infinitely beneath her own as to preclude
even the possibility of an encounter between them.
The woman was very impertinent, certainly, Int
so are the gamins in the streets ; there is a kind
of impertinence which cannot rise to the level of
an affront.

But Madame de Vaublanc probably took a
less lofty view of lier station, for lie hastened to
accept the challenge which the Duchess lead
ignored.

It seems to me, madame,' said she, in her
thin, acid voice, that you might well leave M.
le Marquis in peace. If all that I hear is true,
your house is frequented from morning to night
and from night to morning by every officer in
Alders ; one youniz man more or less can
scarcely signify to you.'

Oh, madame, you flatter me ! ' answered
Madame de Tremonville, turning Round, with a
pleasant smile, to face her assailant. ' It i< true

that some of these gentlemen are kind enough to
come, from time to time, and try to preserve me
from dying of ennui in this horrible place ; but
every officer in Algiers — oh, no ! my little villa
has neither accommodation nor attractions enough
for so large a society. Your friends have exaggerated
to you, dear Madame de Vaublanc. Besides,
you conceive that one must have a little
variety. I have the greatest possible admiration
for our brave army, but I do not desire to live ina
world inhabited only by soldiers. M. de Mer-sac,
who, I assure you, honours me by his visits
entirely of his own free will, amuses me sometimes,
and you would not be so cruel as to wish
to deprive me of any amusement I can get in this
deplorable country.*

If you do not like Algiers, why do you stay
here, madame ? ' cried Madame de Vaublanc.
M. de Tremonville, at least, has some reasons, I
suppose, for finding it advisable to remain where
he is.'

If so, he has not communicated them to me,'
returned Madame de Tremonville, with a slight
shrug of her shoulders. ' As for the miserable
little salary which he receives from his appointment
here, you will easily believe that that can

scarcely influence him. He accepted it, in the
first instance, out of regard for my lieahh, and he
has continued to hold it — heaven knows why ! I
daresay we shall go away soon. In the meantime
one endeavours to be as cheerful as one can.
Why do you never join our little reunions, dear
madame? Come without ceremony any Thursday
evening ; we shall be enchanted to see you ; you
will be the life of our party.'

At this audacious proposition Madame de
Vaublanc nearly choked with anger. Madame
de Tremonville was young, pretty, and had not
the best of reputations. Shocking stories were
told of her extravagance, of her card parties, of
her flirtations. (There is no French word for
flirtation, and Madame de Vaublanc qualified the
lady's conduct by a less ambiguous term.) She
had an indomitable courage, a perfect command
of herself, and a complexion as beautiful as the
best rouge and hlanc-de-perles could make it ;
whereas the poor old Vaublanc was ugly, wrinkled,
irreproachable, and cross, and turned of a dusky-red
colour when she was angered. The combat
was an unequal one, and the elder lady hastened
to retire from it.

Allow me, at least, to choose my own friends,

VOL. L P

inflame,' she muttered, drumming with her foot
on the floor.

PMt-il ? ' murmured Madame de Tremonville
softly, turning open eyes of innocent wonder upon
the silent company.

The ungrateful old Duchess laughed, and
several of the gentlemen put their hands over
their mouths ail stroked their moustaches reflectively.


Nobody was very fond of Madame de Yaublanc,
who, like many other virtuous people, was apt to
be a little hard upon the pleasant vices of her
neighbours ; and some of those who had suffered
from her strictures upon their conduct were not
ill-pleased to see her thus publicly discomfited,
although her assailant was an Imperialist, a
woman of no family, and one who was only admitted
upon sufferance into their coterie. Even
so, when certain statesmen are attacked in Parliament,
and wince under the lash, those dio sit
behind them may sometimes watch with perfect
equanimity the tribulation of their leaders, and
even quietly chuckle over the same. An occasional
touch of the rod is wholesome discipline for an
over-proud spirit.

Madame de Tremonville knew better than to

linger too long upon the scene of her small victory.
In a very few minutes she got up, took a cordial
farewell of the Duchess, and swept gracefully down
the room, bowing as she went to several of the
company, who had risen to let her pass. Jeanne
held the door open for her.

Adieu, mademoiselle,' she said, with a fascinating
smile ; ' hen des chases a monsieur voice
were.

Whereat Jeanne bowed gravely, but vouchsafed
no reply.

A torrent of shrill ejaculations followed the
audacious lady's exit. ' What a woman ! ' —
What insolence ! ' — ' What an impossible costume
! And did you remark that she was rouged
up to her eyes ? ' — ' Decidedly one must renounce
the idea of receiving these people, if they know so
little how to conduct themselves.' — ' To say that
M. le Marquis was in the habit of visiting her — has
one ever heard such impertinence ! Naturally there
could be no truth in what she said.' — ' Oh, madame,
one does not give oneself the trouble to contradict
falsehoods so transparent ! ' — '* Ah, dear Madame
de Yaublanc, you did well to put her back in her
proper place I '

In the midst of this indignant chorus Fan-cette's

withered face was thrust through the half-open
door. She beckoned stealthily to Jeanne,
who got up at once, and slipped unnoticed out of
the room.

Well ? * she said eagerly, as soon as she had
joined the old nurse in the hall.

Well — he has arrived ; he is waiting for you
in the dining-room. Come here, that I may
arrange your hair ; you have lost half-a-dozen
hair-pins.'

But Jeanne, waving the old woman off, passed
quickly into the dining-room, and closed the
door behind her.

A tall young man was standing, with his
hands in his pockets, looking out of the window
and whistling softly He whisked round at the
noise of Jeanne's entrance, and showed a handsome,
oval, beardless face, which broke into smiles
as he embraced his sister.

You good old Jeanne ! ' he cried. ' I knew
you would not be long in coming after you had
heard of my arrival. And how are you?
And what have you been doing with yourself all
these weeks ? I shall make it a habit to go away
oftener, that I may the oftener have the pleasure
of seeing your dear old face again. You may

believe me or not as you like, but it is infinitely
the most beautiful face I ever saw, alive or
painted.'

Jeanne laughed and sighed in a breath. ' How
long will you think that, I wonder ? ' she said.

• As long as I live,' replied the young man with
conviction. ' I flatter myself I am not a bad judge,
and I assure you that there is not a woman in
the world to compare with you. I am not alone
in my opinion either, let me tell you.'

I don't care what other people think of me,'
she answered quickly. ' If you love me better
than anyone else, that is all I want.'

You are glad to have me back, then ? '

Glad ! ' Jeanne threw an emphasis into the
word which ought to have satisfied her hearer.
She clung to him, and kissed him again and again
with a vehemence which. Frenchman as he was,
disconcerted him a little. He reddened slightly,
and laughed as he gently disengaged himself.

One would think you meant to stifle me,' he
said. ' What would your friends in the drawing-room
say, if they could see you? They would
hardly recognise the statuesque Mademoiselle de
Mersac'

I am not Mademoiselle de Mersac to you ; I

am Jeanne, who is quite another person. Jeanne
has many defects which are not apparent in Mademoiselle
de Mersac — that of inquisitiveness
amongst others. Come and sit down in the armchair,
and tell me all about England and the
famille Ashley.'

Leon seated himself. ' The famille Ashley,'
said he, with a shrug of his shoulders, ' resembles
all other English families ; and as for their country,
I left it without any desire to see it again. AH
that one has read of the climate of that island is
not in the least exaggerated — quite the contrary.
During the whole time that I was at my uncle's
house wee saw the sun twice, and even then you
could hardly have distinguished him from the
moon.'

It is a bad time of the year to go to England,
I suppose. But the people — what were they
like?'

Our relations you mean ? Ma foi I it is not
so easy to describe them : they are so very like all
their compatriots. Figure to yourself a hon papa
anglais, bald, rosy, stout ; a mother of a family,
badly dressed, rather untidy, always in a hurry ;
two young misses with pretty faces and fair hair,
but with feet of a size that would make you

shudder, and ill-fitting, one-buttoned gloves —
there you have the party. The sons are away
from home — in the army, in the navy — I know
not where. They received me very kindly, these
good people ; but I did not amuse myself very
well in their house. You know I have not yom*
love for the English. I find them rude and
brusque, and I do not understand the jokes at
which they laugh so immoderately. I was very
dull chez mon onde. Twice we went to the chasse
cm renard, and they were so kind as to compliment
me upon my riding ; other days we shot
pheasants, of which there is a great abundance in
the neighbourhood ; but, as my uncle has no
chasse of his own, we could only do this by invitation,
and there were several days on which I was
left to be entertained by my aunt and cousins.
Ah ! par exemple, it was then that I wished myself
back in Algiers. The misses are a little insipid :
they visit the poor ; they do a gTcat deal of fancy
work ; they drink tea half the afternoon ; they
have not much conversation. After dinner my
uncle falls asleep and snores; I play a partie of
billiards with the ladies ; and then comes the
evening prayer. I, as a Catholic, am invited to
retire, if the ceremony offends my prejudices. I

reply that I am not a bigot ; and the ladies smile
upon me. Then the servants make their entry — a
formidable array. The butler and the housekeeper
seat themselves upon chairs ; but the others,
to mark the inferiority of their position, I presume,
carry in a long bench, and perch themselves uncomfortably
upon it ; some of them appear ill at
ease, and breathe noisily. My uncle puts on his spectacles
and reads a chapter hastily, stumbling over
the long words. Generally one of the dogs barks,
and the misses titter behind their hands. When
we rise from our knees everybody goes to bed,
and I seek my room disconsolately, not being
sleepy, and longing for tobacco. On the second
night I take my courage in both hands and ask
permission to smoke a cigar somewhere. My
uncle, who does not smoke himself, has no fiwioir
in his establishment ; so I am led by the butler to
a little dark room in the basement, where there
are black-beetles. He gives me a candle and bids
me good night. It is not gay. There, my sister,
you have life at Holmhurst. One day resembles
another, as the clothes, the habits, the pleasures of
one Englishman resemble those of another. It is
a country of monotony, and there is nothing the
average Englishman dreads so much as being

different from his neighbours. Here and there,
no doubt, there are exceptions ; and it was my
good fortune to come across such a one in the
person of a certain Mr. Barrington, a neighbour of
the Ashleyss, who, I must admit, has all the good
qualities of his nation without its faults. He has
travelled a great deal ; he speaks very good
French ; he is without insular prejudices ; he is a
rider, a shot, a dancer, an artist — in short, everything
that he does he does admirably. I owe it to
him that I did not perish of ennui at that terrible
Holmhurst. He is a man altogether hors ligne.'

You are as enthusiastic as ever, Leon,' remarked
Jeanne, smiling. ' You can praise no oneby
halves.'

Oh, as for that, everybody joins in praising
Mr. Barrington ! They rave about him in his
province ; and as he has a nice little property of
his own and has no near relations, I leave you to
guess whether the young ladies of the neighbourhood
look upon him with favourable eyes. I think
even that the eldest of the Ashley misses would
willingly consent to make his happiness. But he
has assured me that he means to remaui a bachelor
for the present ; he is not the man to marry la
premiere venue.'

It seems that lie appreciates his own value —
your friend.'

Not at all ; he is the most modest man in the
world. For the rest, you will probably see
him tomorrow, and will be able to judge for
yourself.'

What ? Is he here, then ? ' asked Jeanne, in
some surprise.

Leon nodded. ' He generally goes abroad fora
month or two at this time of the year ; and ashe
had never been in Algeria I easily persuaded
him to accompany me home. I am sure he will
please you — even you, who detest all men. Tenez
he has this advantage, Mr. Barrington — that, being
a heretic, the Duchess cannot wish you to marry
him.'

Certainly that is a point in his favour,' observed
Jeanne, gravely. ' And where have you
left this paragon ? '

At the Hotel orient. It was there that I
met Saint-Luc ; and I thought it a good opportunity
to introduce him to Mr. Barrington, who
might have found it a little dull, having no friends
in the place.'

So that was the reason of your staying to
breakfast with M. de Saint-Luc ? And I was so

unjust as to blame you for not coming home immediately
said Jeanne, with much contrition. ' I
might have known that you would not remain
away for your own pleasure.'

Leon laughed a little uneasily. He was \'ery
young, and had an intermittent conscience, which
asserted itself now and then — not always at the
most appropriate times.

I wanted to see Saint-Luc on my own account,
also,' he confessed ; ' I had a note from him,
while I was away, about the grey horse which he
wished to buy of me ; and I have the pleasure to
announce to you that I have now disposed of that
valuable animal on very favourable terms.'

The grey is a little gone in both fore-legs ;
M. de Saint-Luc knows that very well,' said
Jeanne quickly'.

That has not prevented him from giving me
his little brown ponies in exchange for him,' re-pied
Leon, with modest triumph. ' It is not a bad
bargain, is it ? Saint-Luc told me you had driven
them once, and were delighted with them.'

You cannot dispose of the grey upon those
terms,' said Jeanne decisively. 'M. de Saint-luc
must be perfectly well aware that the grey is not
worth as much as one of his ponies.'

That may or may not be ; but it was he who
suggested the exchange

Naturally ; I never imagined that you
would have proposed anything so absurd. The
affair is not difficult to understand. M. de Saint-luc
has probably his reasons for wishing to be
agreeable to you, and therefore he offers you his
ponies at less than half their proper price. It is
the purest impertinence.'

'It is a pleasant form of impertinence at least,'
returned Leon, laughing. ' Parbleu ! I wish a
few other people would take it into their heads
to be impertinent in the same way.'

You do not understand,' said Jeanne, in great
vexation. ' Do you not see that M. de Saint-Luc
is making you a present ? '

No, I don't,' answered Leon ; ' I don't see it
at all. A horse is not like a measure of oats or
corn ; you can't put a definite price upon him and
say, " That is his real actual value in the market."
Saint-Luc has taken a fancy to the grey, and is
determined to have him. I may think this or
that about the horse ; and you say he is weak in
his fore-legs — an opinion which may possibly bea
mistaken one ; but Saint-Luc has had plenty of
opportunities of judging for himself as to that.

If a man offers me a certain price for a certain
article, am I bound to tell him that, in my idea,
he is bidding too highly ? Believe me, my dear
Jeanne, in this wicked world every man looks after
his own interests ; and as for what you say about
the giving of presents, I never yet heard of an
instance of a present being given in the way
you suggest. People who give presents like to
be thanked for them, I can assure you ; and '

Madame la Duchesse sends to inform M.
le Marquis that she waits him in the salon said
a servant, putting in his head at this juncture;
and so the remainder of Leon's harangue upon
the way of the world remained unspoken.

The truth was that the young man attributed
to his own acuteness the unquestionable fact
that he had concluded an excellent bargain ; and
was, consequently, neither more nor less pleased
with himself than the generality of his elders
would have been in a similar case.

CHAPTEE IV.

ME. Barrington.

Me. Barrington, making his way leisurely up
the steep streets of the Arab town on the day
following that of his arrival in Algiers, and observing,
with eyes appreciative of colour and
outline, a hundred perfect little pictures of
Oriental life as he went, marvelled greatly that
it had never occurred to him before to visit so
charming a city. Mr. Barrington was an amateur
artist, and therefore, of course, even more prone
to the discovery of picturesque effects than a
professional wielder of the brush and maulstick.
The high white houses that rose on either side
of the narrow street — windowless generally, or
at most with but a small grated aperture or two
close under the overhanging roof; the projecting
wooden buttresses that flung long blue shadows
upon the whitewash; the broad glossy-leaved
bananas and sombre cypresses that reared their

heads, here and there, above the avails, suggesting
visions of cool courtyards and luxurious Eastern
interiors to the artistic mind ; the tiny shops —
mere recesses in the wall — whose owners sat
cross-legged smoking their long pipes, in apparently
absolute indifference to the sale of
their wares — all these were to him novel and
delighted sights. Overhead, the strip of skv
was of a deep melting blue ; the sun caught the
upper paint of the houses, but left the basements
in deep shadow ; before him the street trended
upwards in broad shallow steps, down which all
sorts of queerly-costumed figures came to meet
him. Xow it was a grave, majestic Moor, hi-curious
thrown over his shoulder and displaying
his gay-coloured jacket and ample nether garments
; now a grew-bearded Jew shrinking alon^*-
close to the wall in the cat-ike way peculiar to
his race ; now a Mauresque, enveloped in fold
upon fold of white, her black eyes gleaming
through her yashmak ; now a stalwart negress in
blue and white checked haik. Mr. Barrington

o

surveyed them all with benevolent approbation.
Indeed, the habitual expression of this young man's
features was one of good-humoured patronage.
The world had always treated him so well that the

least he could do was to smile back upon it;
and from his childhood he had had so much of
his own way, and rough places had been made
so smooth for him, that it was scarcely strange if
he looked upon most men and things from an
imaginary standpoint rather above than below
them.

Left an orphan almost in his infancy, he
had been brought up by a small junta of uncles
and aunts who had done their best to spoil him,
and who, to his mind, had very efficiently replaced
the parents whom he could scarcely remember ;
and upon attaining his majority he had stepped
into a comfortable property, together with a fortune
not so large as to be embarrassing, yet large
enough to make him what most people would
consider a rich man. He was now about thirty
years of age, and had never known an ache or a
pain, a care or a sorrow, worth speaking of, in
his life. Without having any special title to
beauty of feature, he was nevertheless pleasant
to look upon, having big bones, well developed
muscles, and perfect health. He was the incarnation
of prosperity and contentment. Crossing-sleepers
approached him with confidence ; and
when he took his place upon the magisterial

bench the heart of the poacher rejoiced. As a
good landlord, a good sportsman, a tolerable
Hngiiist, and a lover of the arts, he had claims
upon the sympathies of various classes of society ;
and in fact few men could have enjoyed a larger
acquaintance or a more widely-spread popularity
than he. He made friends with everybody. He
had made friends with Leon, he had made friends
already with M. de Saint-Luc, and he was now on
his way to call at the Campagne de Mersac and
make friends with the young lady of whom he had
received a description from her brother which
had somewhat excited his curiosity. He had
none of the shyness with which many Englishmen
are afflicted, experience having taught him to
look for a hearty welcome wherever he went ;
nor had he any disturbing doubts as to the nature
of his reception in this particular instance.

Emerging from the tortuous streets of the
Arab town, and passing through the Kasbah, or
citadel, in which it culminates, to the open country
beyond, he turned — not to take breath — he
was too sound, wind and limb, to require auysuch
respite — but to feast his eyes upon the glorious
prospect that lay beneath him.

Good heavens ! ' he muttered, * what a queer,

VOL. I. G

uneven business life is, and how few people ever
get a chance of knowing the beauty of the world
they live in ! How I should like to turn a whole
town-full of factory hands out here for a day or
two ! '

A drove of little donkeys, laden with sacks of
earth, came pattering down the road behind him,
their driver, clothed in ragged sackcloth, seated
sideways very close to the tail of the last of them,
and swinging his bronze legs while he urged on
his charges with guttural cries.

Now look at that fellow,' moralised Barrington.
' Thousands in London, not a bit worse off
than he, are leading lives of the most utter and
hopeless misery ; and as for him, he looks as jolly
as a sandboy — by Jove ! he is a sandboy, or at
least an earthly, which, I suppose, is much the
same — odd thing that ! Yes, there you have the
effect of air and sunshine. Well, one can't ship
all St. Giles's over here ; and perhaps Bushes
Park would be more in their hue, after all.'

Consoled by this reflection, he pulled out of
his pocket the note-book which, like a man of
method as he was, he always carried about him,
and noted down : ' Mein. Send cheque to Drudge
to give poor people a day in the country
when warm weather comes.' — Drudge being a

hard-working parson in an East London parish.
After which he resumed his walk.

His charity was mostly of this kind. It did
not cost him very much ; but it was not, on that
account, the less welcome, and it had earned him
a name for benevolence which extended beyond
the limits of his own county.

mr. Barrington, although he had mixed a soot
deal with foreigners, and prided himself upon
nothing so much as this cosmopolitan character,
had all an Englishman's dislike to asking his way.
He therefore made several unnecessary circuits,
and presented himself at the doors of two villas
before he discovered the one of which he was in
search.

M. le Marquis was out,' the servant said, who
answered his ring ; ' but Madame la Duchesse was
at home. Would monsieur give himself the trouble
to enter .^'

Monsieur consented willingly. He was always
ready to make fresh acquaintances ; and though
he had not the remotest idea of who Madame la
Duchesse might be, he was not at all reluctant to
introduce himself to her.

Presumably an elderly relative of our yoimg
friend,' lie thought, as he followed the servant

g2

across the hall, and heard himself announced as
M. de Barrington.'

The Duchess, on her side, knew perfectly well
who her visitor was, having heard all about him
from Leon on the previous evening ; but, for all
that, it did not suit her to manifest any immediate
recognition of the stranger's identity. She had
always been a very punctilious person, even in the
days of her supremacy in Paris, and was tenfold
more so in these latter times, when there seemed
to be occasional danger of her claims to veneration
being ignored.

Nor was she over well pleased by the easy,
unembarrassed manner in which Mr. Barrington
introduced himself, explained the origin of his
acquaintance with her godson, and, seating himself
beside her, entered at once into conversation
in free and fluent French. She had often complained
of English gaucherie ; but, at the bottom
of her heart, she thought a little timidity on entering
her presence not out of place in a young man.
So, for once in his life, Mr. Barrington failed to
make a favourable impression.

Some extracts from a rather lengthy epistle
which he despatched a few days later to a friend
in England may be appropriately inserted here: —

That old Duchesse de Breuil was a charming
study ; I never met with a more perfect type of a
great lady of the vieille roche. She has a fine hook
nose, and faded, sunken blue eyes ; her hair is as
white as snow — just as it ought to be ; she wore a
dress of stone-grey silk so rich, and at the same
time so soft, that I would have asked her where
she got it if I had not been afraid ; and her
withered old neck and wrists were half concealed
by clouds of old yellow Mechlin lace. I don't
think very old people can ever be beautiful, looked
upon as human beings ; but they may undoubtedly
be beautiful as pictures ; and this dear old soit,
sitting bolt upright in her armchair by the fireplace,
holding up a huge black fan to shield her
from the blaze, was quite a gem in her way. I
could have sat and looked at her with perfect
contentment for half an hour ; only the bother
was one had to talk, and, for some reason or other,
she didn't choose to exert her conversational
powers. I was just beginning to feel rather
bored, and was thinking about taking my leave,
when the door opened and in walked — the goddess
Minerva. Pallas Athene herself, I give you
my word — in a brown holland gown — and, oh !
how I wished the fashions of this inartistic acre

had permitted lier to wear her ancient costume of
sleeveless tunic, plus, helmet, and lance ! Her
modern name is Mademoiselle Jeanne de Mersac ;
and she held out her hand to me and began talking
in a grave, condescending sort of way about
England and her cousins the Ashleyss, just as if
she had been an ordinary mortal. Her voice was
very soft and musical — rather deep for a woman ;
but that is no defect. I called her Pallas Athene
because she is so tall and proud and cold ; but she
is not yy^avKwTTig ; on the contrary, her eyes are
large, brown, and soft, like Juno's, and she is as
graceful as the Venus Anadyomene, and as free
and stately in her gait as Diana the huntress. So
you see she is altogether divine. There was a
time when I must have fallen head over ears in
love with her on the spot ; but you and I, old
man, have left that era behind us. Military non
sine gloria. I have gone through a fair share of
flirtations in my day, and have had one or two
narrow shaves of matrimony ; now I am grown
tough with years about the region of the heart,
and can worship beauty from a purely aesthetic
point of view, and without arrive pense. I am
too old a bird to fall unwarily into the meshes of
the fowler. Not that I mean to insinuate that

Mademoiselle de Mersac is spreading a net for me,
which will, I know, be the first idea to suggest
itself to your coarse mind. Heaven forbid ! I am
blushing all over, as I write, at the bare thought
of such profanity. Mademoiselle de Mersac has
no need to angle for a husband. She might marr'
anybody, and has already refused many brilliant
osiers, divino' it to be understood, I believe, that
her intention is to remain unmarried. in order that
she may be the freer to give herself up to the care
of her brother, who is a decent young; fellow
enough, but is all the better, I daresay, for having
a protecting goddess to warn him off from occasional
dangers, such as harpies, sirens, and so
forth. It certainly seems possible that, being now
come to years of discretion, he may soon find a
sister's supervision superfluous ; and it is also not
unlikely that Mademoiselle Jeanne may eventually
see fit to modify the programme she has laid
down for herself ; but in the meantime the
spectacle of a woman who really does not want
to get married is a novel and refreshing one. You,
who go in for cynicism of a more or less shallow
kind, and who think yourself clever for discovering
a selfish motive at the root of all your neighbours'
actions, should be the first to admit this.

The picturesque old Duchess, who is worldly-wise
and experienced, is racking her wits and
breaking her heart in the effort to " establish "
Mademoiselle Jeanne ; but as yet she has only
succeeded in inspiring the young lady with a profound
mistrust of, and prejudice against, all
members of the male sex. This, of course, you
don't believe ; but I can't help that. Mademoiselle
is charitable and visits the poor, Arab and Christian
alike ; but her good deeds are mostly done sub
rose — just what I should have expected of her.
She is kind and generous to poor, timid, or
ugly people ; but a little inclined to be haughty
towards those with whom the world goes well —
there again I recognise the character which I was
sure from the first must go with so superb a
physique. By the poor she is adored, but she is
less popular among her equals. Few people understand
her ; some dislike her ; but all admire
her. There is a prevalent notion that when her
brother marries she will take the veil.

The greater part of this information I have
gleaned from a certain Vicomte de Saint-Luc, who
is staying at this hotel — a half-ruined Parisian of
the new school, who gets his clothes from an
English tailor, rides in steeple-chases at vincennes,

plays baccarat all night, and sleeps all
day. You know the kind of man — or rather, on
second thoughts, you probably don't ; but I do,
and it is not a type that I much admire. I suspect
him of being somewhat eris of Mademoiselle,
or her fortune — she has a fortune of her own, by-the-by
— but I don't imagine he has much chance
of success. He is going to sell me a horse ; and
I daresay he will try to get the better of me. I
flatter myself he won't find that a particularly
easy task.

Well, after all I have said about this divine
Mademoiselle de Mersac, you will understand,
without my telling you, that I shall never be
content till I have got her to sit to me. The
question is, in what pose and surroundings to take
her. In her garden there is a little fountain
which splashes lazily into a marble basin where
there are water-hies. All round it are standard
rose-trees ; and for background you have a row
of black cypresses, with the blue sky showing
between and above them. I thought of painting
her standing there, dressed all in white, with
perhaps a pomegranate blossom in her hair, and
looking out upon you from the frame with her great
solemn eyes. But then, again, I don't know that

I should not like her better half-reclining on a
low divan — there are several such in the de
Mersacs' drawing-room — with a panther-skin at
her feet, and a hand-screen made of a palmetto-leaf
in her hand. Over the back of the couch one
would throw one of those Arab rugs that they
make at Tlemcen, in which all the colours of the
rainbow, and a great many more, meet, but never
"swear." There would be a glimpse of sharp-pointed
arches and clustered marble pillars for
background ; and the light would fall from above.
But the fact is, that she would look well in any
posture ; and I can't imagine a situation that
would be unbecoming to her.

Of course I have not had the audacity to
broach the subject yet ; nor shall I, until we have
become a good deal better acquainted than weare
at present. However, as I am determined
that the picture shall be painted, I haven't much
doubt as to my ultimate success ; and, indeed,
Mademoiselle was very gracious to me — more so,
I believe, than she is to the generality of visitors.
Saint-Luc says this is because I am not a possible
suitor ; and that if I had been a Frenchman she
would not have , troubled herself to address two
words to me. I don't know how this may be ;

but, at all events, I think I may congratulate myself
upon having made some advance towards
intimacy in the course of my first interview. It
was rather uphill work at starting ; but I exerted
all my powers to be amusing, and at length I
succeeded in making her laugh a little, which was
a great point gained. Even the old Duchess
thawed when she found that I was acquainted
with some of her friends in the Faubourg, and was
good enough to entertain me with some long
yarns about Taller-and and Polignac and the
Duchesse de Berry. Then young de Mersac came
in and offered to drive me home ; and so I took
my leave. We rattled down to the town at no
end of a pace — the way these Frenchmen drive
down hill is a caution ! — but eve arrived without
broken bones at the hotel, where we found M. de
Saint-Luc ; and presently my young friend and he
went off to dine together somewhere. They were
so kind as to invite me to join them ; but as I
heard something about baccarat, and as that is a
game which I have played in Paris, consule Plano,
and don't mean to play again, except perhaps in
the company of sober folks like you, I excused
myself, and dined at the tahle-cVlwte. We had
green peas at dinner, and this morning they

brought me bananas and strawberries, and the
most delicious little mandarin oranges, with my
breakfast. I am writing by my open window, and
it is so hot that I have had to close the outside
shutters. And the last thing you said to me
before I left was, that you couldn't understand a
fellow going out of England before the hunting
was over ! Gracious powers ! aren't oranges, and
bananas, and sunshine, and Mademoiselle de Mer-sac
worth six weeks of indifferent hunting? I
enjoy a good day's sport as much as anybody, but,
thank heaven ! I can enjoy other things as well.
Most men lose half the pleasures of life because
they will select one pursuit and stick to it ; it is

the greatest mistake in the world. Now, I '

Here the letter proceeds to treat discursive
of various topics, and ceases to have any bearing
upon matters connected with the present history.

CHAPTEE V.

M. DE Saint-LUC.

Charles Casimir Louis, Vicomte che Saiiit-Luc,
had, for more years than he cared accurately to
reckon up, enjoyed a considerable amount of
notoriety and admiration in the gay world of
Paris. A member of the Jockey Club, a duellist
of proved skill and intrepidity, a leader of cotillons
in the most fashionable salons, a bold gamester,
and an imperturbable loser, he seemed to
have fulfilled all the conditions necessary to being
considered a fine gentleman by the habitues of the
society which he frequented. Among the ignoble
vulgus, too, which, in France even more than in
England, is liable to be dazzled by profusion,
gutter, and display, his name had become a
familiar word ; nor did his well-known colours
ever fail to elicit applause at Longchamps, La
Marche, or Vincennes, especially when, as was

often the case, the noble owner was himself the
wearer of them.

M. de Saint-Lnc had begun life as a sub-lieutenant
in the Chasseurs d'Afrique, in which
distinguished corps he had risen to the rank of
captain before the death of his father, a quiet old
gentleman, the greater part of whose life had been
spent parsimoniously upon his estate in Normandy,
placed him in command of a very respectable
fortune.

The young Vicomte, to whom a vast supply
of ready money was an altogether new and delightful
sensation, immediately abandoned his
military career, took a commodious flat in the
Cliaussee d'Antin, and set to work to enjoy life
in Paris, where his handsome face, his lively
manners, and his superb indifference to expenditure
soon made him a prime favourite with both
sexes. In a very short time he had achieved a
reputation. A few duels, a cleverly won race or
two, and a suspicion of sundry bonnes fortunes
sufficed to place him very near to the highest
eminence of fame attainable by those who lived
the life which he had adopted. All the opera-glasses
in the house where brought to bear upon
him when he lounged into his place at the

Italiens or the Francis ; lie could not walk a
hundred yards from his door without becoming
aware that the passers-by were nudging one
another and whispering his name ; the horrible
little newspapers, which busy themselves with such
subjects, chronicled his extravagances, and called
upon their readers to admire his freaks ; provincial
gaped at him ; fine ladies ogled him ; he
was envied by his inferiors, and emulated by his
equals. At the time of the Exhibition of 1867,
though at that time he was already a little past
the zenith of his glory, he was pointed out to
foreigners as a Worthy representative of high life
under the Second Empire. It was, perhaps, no
great honour to be thus distinguished ; but, such
as it was, hundreds of Parisians would have driven
their ears to share it. As the times are so will
the men be ; and the times just then were bad, in
more ways than one. An idle Englishman, with
a sufficiency of money in his pocket, may, and
from the nature of his position probably will, succeed
in leading a life which, if not profitable, is,
at any rate, in a great measure healthy and manly,
even if he have no higher object before him than
pleasure ; but the resources of a Frenchman, similarly
situated, are far more restricted, and seldom

extend beyond the walls of a town. To rise at
mid-day, to dawdle through the afternoon in paying
visits or driving in the Bois, to look in at the
theatre or at a ball during the evening, and to
devote the rest of the twenty-four hours to gambling,
may not seem a specially inviting programme
to look forward to for the remainder of a man's
days ; such, however, in so far as it is possible to
indicate it here, was the mode of killing time
chosen by M. de Saint-Luc and his friends, and
very few of them where ever heard to complain of
it. Habit, which renders most things supportable
else, where could you find coal-miners, stokers,
or dentists? — had so inured these gentlemen to
their manner of life that most of them really believed
their lot to be an enviable one.

To do the Vicomte justice, such was not his
opinion. After three or four years of Parisian
life he became heartily sick of the whole business.
He grew tired of astonishing people, and ceased to
care in the least whether they were astonished or
not. He wearied of the eternal mill-round of
so-called pleasure, and longed to escape from it,
without very well seeing his way to do so. In
cards only he found some remnant of excitement ;
but then the cards were not always propitious.

and, as his income dwindled, he began to think
that they also were vanity. Wandering home
forlornly, in the grey morning, with empty
pockets, an aching head, grimy hands, and an
utter distaste and disgust for the world, he not
unfrequently asked himself whether it would
not be best to put a pistol to his head, and
have done with it. Generally he answered the
question in the affirmative; but there he stopped.
One has always plenty of time to kill oneself,'
he would reflect as he tumbled into bed ; and the
next evening saw him seated before the card-table
again as usual.

So time went on, and symptoms of crow's-feet
began to manifest themselves about the corners of
M. de Saint-Luc's eyes, and a grey hair or two
cropped up about the region of his temples, and
with each succeeding year his banker's book
became a less agreeable study. How long he
might have maintained his position in the front
rank of Parisian society if his horse had come in
first for the Grand Prix of 1869, it is impossible
to say; but it was M. Lupin's Grandeur who won
the race, and our poor Yicomte drove home, down
the crowded Champs Elysees, with a face somewhat
graver than usual, and an uncomfortable

VOL. I. U

suspicion that he was very nearly ruined. He
looked into his affairs with an ultimate result less
discouraging than he had ventured to hope for.
He found that, after paying all outstanding debts,
and disposing of his stud and other superfluities,
there would remain to him an income sufficient
for moderate comfort, besides his chateau and
estates in Normandy. This Norman chateau,
which he had hitherto visited barely once a year
during the shooting season, should henceforth, he
determined, be his home. He had been one of
the bright particular stars of the Parisian firmament,
and preferred extinction to diminished shining as
an indistinguishable member of the nebulae which
had once surrounded him.

One fine day in the end of June, therefore,
the Vicomte de Saint-Luc might have been seen
taking his ticket at the station of Saint-lazar,
while his servant watched over a pile of luggage
whose imposing dimensions sufficiently showed
that its owner was bound upon no ordinary .
' Adieu, Paris ; adieu, nos beaux jours ! *
muttered the Vicomte, as he installed himself in a
corner of the railway carriage.

In thus turning his back upon old associations
M. de Saint-Luc had, as a matter of course, contemplated

marriage as an essential part of his
scheme for the future. He did not much want
to be married ; but that was not the question.
To live in the country as a bachelor would be
insupportable ; besides, it was the recognised thing
that a landed proprietor should marry after a
certain aise. He had heroically resolved to abandon
pleasure in favour of dull respectability, and
a wife and children were among the lesser evils
which he anticipated from the change. But before
he had been a day in the home of his fathers
he perceived the impossibility of asking any lady
to share it with him while in its present condition,
and fully realised how necessary it was that
the future Vicomtesse should have her share of
this world's gear.

M. de Saint-Luc's chateau was situated, not
in that sunshiny, apple-bearing, prosperous Normandy
so familiar to English tourists, but in the
less frequented and bleaker district which forms
the north-western extremity of the province.
With its steep roofs and its wrought-iron balconies,
it was a sufficiently picturesque object in the
landscape, and the woods which surrounded it
looked doubly green, cool and leafy by contrast
with the heathy moorland which stretched away

h2

from them to the seaward. But then picturesqueness
and comfort are so seldom ached ! The house
was cold, damp, and mildewed ; it had been
uninhabited, so far at least as its salons and best
bedrooms were concerned, for many years, and
the rats, the mice, and the moths had had it all
their own way with the furniture. As for the
domain, that was well enough in fine summer
weather. The neglected garden, the moss-grown
sundial, the broken statues, the marble balustrades
stained with the rain and snow of many winters,
the pond where the ancient carp were, the dense
woods and the long grassy avenues that intersected
them — all these had a peaceful, dignified
repose not unpleasing to a jaded Parisian. There
was a charm, too, in the healthy freedom of the
moors, where a salt-laden wind always blew
freshly, where you might gallop for leagues
without injuring anybody's crops, and where a
gentleman who had won steeple-chases in his
time might indulge himself occasionally by popping
over a stone wall. It was in this way that M. de
Saint-Luc employed the greater portion of his
days, his rides not unfrequently terminating at the
neighbouring chateau of M. de Marcigny, whose
charming wife — a lady of fashion, whom Saint-luc

had known ever since lie had known fashionable
society at all — had charged herself "with the
delicate task of finding a suitable mate for the
reformed Vicomte.

He got through the summer satisfactorily
enough, on the whole, though not without occasional
hankering after the flesh-pots of Egypt ;
but his heart began to sink with the fall of the
leaf, and early in October his courage failed him
altogether. For then the mighty south-west wind
arose in his strength, and roaring in, day after
day, from the Atlantic, with pelting rain and
driving mist, stripped the tossing boughs, whistled
through the ill-fitting windows of the chateau, and
finally sent the Vicomte to bed with such a cold
and cough as he had never had before in his life.
The days were bad enough, but the nights were
simply appalling. When the old woman who
officiated as his housekeeper had brought him his
lait-de poule, and stolen away, after wishing him
good night, Saint Luc could not sleep for the
awful and unaccountable noises that became
audible in the deserted corridors. Such ghostly
rustling and meanings, such a weird, nameless
stirring, reached his ears from the unoccupied
rooms, that he was fain to slip out of bed and

lock his door. Every now and again a gust of
wind whirled away a loose slate from the roof
with crash and clatter.

On the third day Saint-Luc got up and dressed
himself, vowing that he could not and would not
stand this any longer. He ordered his horse and
galloped off, through the rain, to see Madame de
Marcigny, whom he found packing up her trunks.

What, madame, do you, too, desert us ? ' he
exclaimed in dismay.

We leave for Paris tomorrow,' she answered :
I adore the country, but I detest bad weather ;
and I see by your face that you share my opinion.
You know I always told you you would renounce
your project of having in Normandy from January
to December.'

You were right, madame, as you always are.
I renounce everything — chateau, wife, respectability
— all ! I have the mal dupays. What the
Eanz des Laches is to the Swiss, and the cornelius
to the Scot, that is the asphalte of Paris to me. A
whifF of it would bring the tears into my eyes.
Only, as I have sworn never to live in Paris again,
I think I will spend my winter at Nice. Thereat
last, I shall meet friends, I shall perhaps get
rid of this cough which is shaking me to pieces,

and I can finish ruining myself pleasantly at
Monaco

If I were you, my friend,' said Madame de
Marcigny gravely, ' I would remain away from
Monaco.'

Your advice is excellent, madame,' answered
Saint-Luc, with a smile and a bow ; ' but, unhappily,
I know myself too well to imagine that I shall
have the fortitude to follow it. If I go to Nice,
you may be siu-e that M. Blanc wil profit by my
residence in the South.'

Madame de Marcigny considered.

Then do not go to Nice,' she said at length.
Go rather to Algiers. You will be at home
there — you who have served in the Chasseurs
d'Afrique and fought against Abd-el-Kader ; you
will find a charming climate and an agreeable
society ; and, what is best of all, you will make
acquaintance with Mademoiselle de Mersac'

And who is Mademoiselle de Mersac, if you
please ? '

Well, I cannot tell you much about her, except
that she is young, well provided for and exceptionally
beautiful, and that she is the niece —
or some other relation — of my old friend the
Duchesse de Breuil, who is anxious to establish

her, and to whom I will give you an introduction.
It seems to me that she may be worth the trouble
of a journey to Algeria.'

Thus it came about that M. de Saint-Luc presented
himself, one day, at the Campagne de Mer-sac,
and was received by the Duchess with the
friendliness due to a gentleman of ancient lineage
and a protege of Madame de Marcigny. He was
not disinclined to marry the young lady whose
advantages had been enumerated to him as above
recorded — or, indeed, any young lady equally
eligible ; but he felt no enthusiasm or interest
about her, and certainly had no suspicion of the
influence that she was destined to exercise upon
his future life. At what age, and after how much
experience, dare a man consider himself superior
to the absurd passion of love at first sight ? Saint-luc,
whose amours had been so many that he had
forgotten three-fourths of them, and who could no
longer be called a young man, except by courtesy,
might perhaps, without undue arrogance, have
smiled at the notion that he could be assailed by
any such malady ; yet, after he had passed a
quarter of an hour in the same room with Jeanne
de Mersac and had exchanged half-a-dozen sentences
with her, he returned to his hotel conscious

of a singular inward change, and, at the end of
a week, was fain to admit to himself, not without
consternation, that, for the first time in his life, he
was really in love. He was half-happy, half-vexed,
at the discovery. It was not displeasing to
him, as a man whose lease of existence, according
to the Biblical standard, had already run into its
second term, to find that some remnant of the
freshness of youth still clung to him ; but, on the
other hand, it was a little ridiculous to lose one's
heart to a beautiful face, like a raw boy from
Saint-Cyr. Moreover, it is inconvenient to be in
love with your wife. Great passions do not suit
with domesticity ; or so, at least, the Yicomte
thought. However, whether for good or for evil,
this strange thing had befallen him, and could not
be striven against, so he lost no time in adopting
what he believed to be the proper line of conduct
in such circumstances. He went to the Duchess,
announced his desire, and laid before her an estimate
of his income as nearly correct as he could
make it. He was met with a reply which somewhat
staggered him.

As far as I am concerned,' the Duchess said,
'I should be charmed if this alliance could be
arranged ; but, unhappily, the decision rests neither

with me nor with the young Marquis, but with
Jeanne herself. It is absurd, it is unreasonable,
but it is so. My poor friend, the late Marquis,
took it into his head to marry an Englishwoman,
from whom he imbibed I know not what fantastic
notions, which, among other results, have had that
of causing me an immensity of annoyance and
trouble.' Here the Duchess expatiated at some
length upon the inconvenience occasioned to herby
Jeanne's independence of authority. ' II vous
faudra lui faire la cour, monsieur' she concluded,
spreading out her hands and raising her shoulders.
It is a troublesome process if you will — I am not
sure that it is even conventicle ; but it is the only
way that I know of to gain her for your wife.
Nothing that I can say will influence her in the
least — that I can promise you ; but you have my
best Lavishes. You see I treat you with perfect
frankness : if you think the prize is not worth the
time and exertion it will cost you (and I warn you
in advance that you will have to expend a great
deal of both, and also a large supply of patience),
I shall not be astonished.

Saint-Luc answered, with a smile, that if nothing
more than labour and patience were demanded
of him, these should not be wanting on his part.

He did not allow the Duchess to suppose that he
entertained any warmer feeling for Mademoiselle
de Mersac than that safe one of esteem which
Frenchmen consider the surest basis of matrimonial
felicity; but he secretly rejoiced in the
prospect of winning so beautiful a bride by some
more romantic method than that which had at first
suggested itself to him, and perhaps thought the
task would not prove so difficult a one as the old
lady seemed to anticipate.

If he did deem success a probability he was
not wholly inexcusable in so thinking. Fortune
had smiled so persistently upon him in all his
previous affaires de coeur that he was entitled,
without inordinate vanity, to consider himself a
favourite with the fair sex. Was it likely that lie
who had known how to please the great ladies of
Paris would fail with an inexperienced girl whose
life had been passed in remote Algeria? Of
course, as a matter of fact, nothing was more
likely — inexperienced girls being usually far more
exacting than women of the world, and the qualities
which find favour in the eyes of the latter
class being seldom those which recommend themselves
to the former ; but this Saint-Luc did not
know. His acquaintance with feminine nature

was, indeed, far more restricted than he had supposed,
and so he was fain to admit in the very
initiation of his courtship. Advancing to the attack
with easy confidence in his time-honoured system
of tactics, he fell back, dismayed and bewildered,
from the wall of icy impassibility behind which
Jeanne entrenched herself. He had wit enough to
perceive that his old weapons — compliments, killing
glances, and small attentions — would be of
little service to him here, but he did not see what
efficient substitutes he could find for them. A
passing remark of Jeanne's gave him a clue.
Speaking of an old man whom everybody disliked,
she said, ' He is not perfect ; but, for all that, I will
allow no one to speak against him before me. He
was kind to Leon once, and whoever does Leona
kindness does one to me.' M. de Saint-Luc
immediately resolved that he would cultivate
Leon's acquaintance. It was not a happy inspiration.
With the most innocent intentions in the
world, he took to inviting the young man often to
dine with him at his liotei ; but the young man
liked a game of cards, at the officers' club or elsewhere,
after his dinner ; and what could be more
natural than that his entertainer should join in the
amusement ? So Leon generally got to bed at a

much later hour than was good for one whose
avocations necessitated early rising ; and Jeanne,
discovering, Without difficulty, the manner in
which her brother's evenings were spent, set down
the poor Yicomte as a corrupter of youth. She
made a few inquiries about M. de Saint-Luc, and
learned enough of his past career to confirm her
bad opinion of him. Never prone to conceal her
likes and dislikes, she now began to treat her unlucky
admirer with a mixture of scorn and anger
which must have disgusted him with her had he
not been so very much in love. As it was, his
passion was increased rather than diminished bv
Jeanne's harshness, though she often made him
wince by her sharp speeches. She never lost an
opportunity of snubbing him, and seemed to delight
in causing him pain or humiliation ; but he bore
it all meekly enough, telling himself that by
gentleness and perseverance he might conquer in
the long run. lean while he continued to be very
civil to Leon, little supposing that by so doing he
was injuring his own cause.

His chief object, indeed, in asking the young
man to dinner was to have an excuse for talking
Jeanne — a subject upon which the latter was
always ready to dilate with enthusiasm ; but as for

Leon, it is to be feared that baccarat and lansquenet,
not Saint-Luc's society, were the attractions
that led him, night after night, to the Hotel
orient.

Don't let us waste any more time out here,'
he said, one evening shortly after his return, when
he had been dining with Saint-Luc as usual, and
the pair were leaning over the parapet of the
Boulevard de I'Luperatrice, smoking their cigars
in the moonlight. ' Doncourt and Delamere and
the rest must have been expecting us this last
half-hour.'

It was a still, warm, cloudless night. The
great white mosque in the Place du Gouvernement,
the lighthouse at the end of the Mole, the silent
ships in the harbour, and the gently heaving sea
beyond, lay bathed in such a soft brilliant moonlight
as we, in these Northern latitudes, have no
knowledge of. The broad boulevard was thronged
with loungers, Jew, Turk, and Christian ; and in
one of the cafes down by the waterside somebody
was singing to the tinkling accompaniment of a
guitar

Let them expect us a little longer,' answered
Saint-Luc ; ' one can lose one's money any night
of the year, but one cannot always have fine

weather. Here comes your English friend ; let
us ask him what he thinks. Mr. Barrington, is it
not better to sit out here doing nothing than to
spend the night over a card-table in an atmosphere
laden with the fumes of bad cigars ? '

'A great deal better, I should say,' replied
Barrington, with a quick glance of distrust at
Saint-Luc and of commiseration at Leon, which
did not escape the notice of either of them. ' Take
my advice, de Mersac, and don't play for high
stakes ; it is very nearly as exciting to play for
sous, if you only knew it. For my own part, I
gave up loo and lansquenet, and such games,
years ago.'

M. Barrington a j^cisse par la,' said Leon,
with a laugh, which imperfectly concealed some
natural annoyance at being lectured ; ' he has
tasted all the forbidden pleasures, and found them
worthless. As for me, I suppose I am not old
enough or wise enough to give up cards.'

And I,' remarked Saint-Luc, ' am too old.
Life has not so many amusements that I can afford
to sacrifice one of them ; unless, indeed, I could
discover some equivalent,' he added, with a half-sigh.


Equivalent ! ' echoed Langton, rather

scornfully. ' I don't know what your idea of an
equivalent for gambling may be ; but if you only
look upon it as a means of making time pass, it
ought not to be a hard matter to find some substitute
for it.'

Everybody has not your talents, monsieur,'
returned Saint-Luc. ' You have art to fall back
upon, which I, unfortunately, have not.'

Oh, I don't pretend to any talent,' said Barrington
generously. 'Anybody who is not colour-blind
can learn to paint well enough to make an
amusement for himself with a little study and perseverance
; and, if he have no turn for drawing,
he can easily take up something else. The world
is full of pleasant occupations, if idle people would
only take the trouble to look for them.'

Saint-Luc did not dispute the accuracy of the
statement. He smiled, lighted a second cigar,
and puffed at it in silence for a few minutes ; then,
Do you go to Madame de Tremonville's dance
tomorrow, Leon? ' he asked.

Undoubtedly ; and you ? '

I hardly know ; it will depend upon how I
may feel disposed when the time comes. She
wearies me, this Madame de Tremonville, whom
you admire so much. Has she sent an invitation
to Madame la Duchesse, and your sister ? '

Leon laughed. ' Madame de Tremonville does
not want courage,' he said, ' but she has not yet
had the audacity to ask the Duchess to one of her
dances. I have been begged to bring Jeanne,
though.'

And will she go ? '

Ah ! that I can't say. She is a little capricious,
as all women are, even the best of them,'
said Leon, who flattered himself that he had
some acquaintance with this subject. ' Will you
accompany us, Mr. Barrington ? It may amuse
you to have a glimpse of our Algerian society.'

I don't know the lady,' answered Barrington.

Oh ! that is of no consequence ; she will be
delighted to receive any friend of mine. Shall I
ask her to send you a card ? '

Thank you. I should like very much to go,
especially if I am to have the pleasure of meeting
Mademoiselle de Mersac. She did not say anything:
about it this mornings.'

Saint-Luc stared. He had known Mademoiselle
de Mersac much longer than this Englishman,
but it had never occurred to him to take
the liberty of calling upon her on any other day
than that on which she was accustomed to receive
visitors ; still less would he have dreamt of enter-vol.

I. I

ing her presence before three o'clock in the afternoon,
at the earnest. He was fairly startled out
of his good manners, and exclaimed, half involuntarily,
' You were at El-bear this morning,
monsieur ? '

Barrington saw his dismay, and rather enjoyed
it. ' I rode up after breakfast,' he answered ; ' I
wanted to try the horse you sold me.'

And I hope you found him satisfactory,' said
Saint-Luc, recovering himself.

Barrington would have liked to say that the
horse was a little touched in the wind ; but, not
being quite sure of his French, had to smile and
reply, ' Perfectly.'

I am charmed to hear it. For the rest, I was
sure you would be contented with him. — what
is it, Leon ? Ah, mauvais sujet ! you are longing
for the green cloth. As you will, then ! Come,
let us go and earn a headache for tomorrow
morning. Monsieur will not be of the party?
Alt revoir, then.'

And so the two gamesters strolled away.

Do you know,' said Leon, confidentially, as
soon as they were out of earshot, ' I am not sure
that I like Mr. Barrington so well as I did at first.
Sometimes I think he is a little too conceited and
dictatorial

'You say that because he gave you good
advice,' laughed the other good-humouredl3\
Bah ! he was right, mon gar con ; high play leads
to no good ; aud if my past gave me the right to
offer advice to anyone, I should back him up.
Unhappily for you, you made the acquaintance of
a worthless fellow when you met me. What
would you have ? It is too late to mend now.
Video melior prologue ; deteriorate sequor!

And, having made this classic confession with
a fine sonorous ring, the Yicomte linked his arm
in that of his young friend, and led him through
the open doors of the Cercle.

As for Barrington, he made his way back to
the Hotel orient, and, happening to meet an
acquaintance in the hall, took occasion to express
his opinion of M. de Saint-Luc with perfect
candour

A man who can find nothing better to do
than to lead boys into mischief ought to be kicked,'
said he. ' I don't know what name you have for
that sort of fellow in French : in England we
should call him a "leg"'

I 2

CHAPTEE VT.

Madame DE Grenville's DANCE.

It was admitted on all hands that Madame de
Tremonville's entertainments were invariably
brilliant and successful. Her abode was one of
the most spacious of the many charming villas
which cover the hillside of Mustapha ; she never
overcrowded her rooms, she paid special attention
to the excellence of the refreshments provided ;
and she even affected a certain exclusiveness,
declining to know people who had not something

whether beauty, rank, wealth, or talent — to

recommend them. Without much diiSculty she
succeeded in becoming a leader of Algerian society,
and those whom she invited to her soirees
seldom sent her a refusal. The Duchesse de
Breuil and a few other Legitimist ladies looked
down upon her, it is true ; but that was a matter
of course. They would have looked down upon
anybody whose husband held office under the

then existing Government, and this disdain gave
Madame de Tremonville very little concern. She
rather enjoyed an occasional passage-farms with
Madame de Yaublanc ; and for the rest she took
good care that these ladies should recognise her
when they met in any public place, and insisted
upon visiting them, whether they liked it
or not. 'It is chic to be upon good terms ^vith
the old noblesse,' she would sometimes say.

Her reputation was not wholly free from
reproach ; nor was she well spoken of by the
ladies of her acquaintance. As, however, nothing
had as yet been proved against her, as she was
very hospitable, and, as she had a retentive memory
and a sharp tongue, she was always able
to fill her ball-room with members of the best
society Algiers could produce.

Barrington, whom Leon in fulfilment of his
promise duly escorted to Madame de Grenville's
next dance, was enchanted with the scene
that met his eye as he passed through the doorway,
where the mistress of the house stood
smiling impartially upon each fresh arrival. The
large square room into which he looked, with its
white walls, its polished parquet and its multitude
of fights, was all ablaze with showy uniforms and

jewels. As far as appearance went, Madame de
Tremonville's modest salon might have been the
reception-room of an ambassadress — so closely do
ordinary mortals resemble their more exalted
brethren if decked out in sufficiently fine clothes.
The ladies were all well dressed — as indeed any
community of French women would be sure to
be, however remote their habitation — and if the
Orders which adorned the coats of the gentlemen
were not invariably of the first or second class,
they did not on that account make a less brave
show. To the uninitiated eye one ribbon or star
is very much like another.

Barrington, while scrutinising with pleased
surprise so refined and civilised a gathering, was
a little disappointed at failing to discover Mademoiselle
de Mersac among the guests. He
watched the dancers from the beginning to the
end of a waltz ; he sauntered through the ballroom,
the card-room beyond it, and out on to
the verandah, lit by hanging Moorish lamps of
coloured glass ; but nowhere could he discover
the graceful, majestic figure of which he was in
search. Leon offered to introduce him to a partner,
and in common courtesy he could not decline ;
but as soon as he had walked through a set of

Lancers he returned to the doorway, and resumed
his patient watch. The only entry he witnessed
for his pains was that of M. de Saint-Luc, who
lounged in very late, and surveyed the assemblage
with a look of anxiety gradually deepening into
intense annoyance and disgust, which caused the
other disappointed watcher to chuckle in his
corner.

Madame de Tremonville advanced to meet
her guest with marked cordiality. In him she
recognised one of the most prominent men of
the epoch. Algiers generally knew little of M.
de Saint-Luc, except that he had dissipated a
large fortune by riotous living ; but Madame
de Tremonville was not as those barbarians.
She knew her Paris ; and was proud to welcome
the man whom Imperialism had delighted to
honour. Thanks to her sedulous study of certain
Parisian journals, as well as to sundry private
sources of information, she could have given him
a tolerably accurate account of all his escapades
in chronological order. Some years back, being
at Longchamps, she had seen him leaning on
the carriage-door of one of the famous ladies
who frequented the Emperor's Court. The great
race of the day had just been lost and won, and

the crowd was beginning to disperse. A bystander,
nudging his companion, had said, 'Do
you see that man? That is the Yicomte de Saint -
Luc, who has just lost a hundred thousand francs
there is one who ruins himself gaily ' — and
Madame de Tremonville, overhearing the remark,
had watched the imperturbable loser with
increased interest, had seen him slowly make
his way through the lines of carriages, bowing
to one lady, shaking hands with another,
and exchanging a few words with a third, till
he reached the equipage of a notorious leader
of the demi-monde, into which he had stepped
and had been driven away with the eyes of all
Paris upon him. Madame de Tremonville, witnessing
this little scene, had felt a momentary
thrill of noble enthusiasm. ' That is my ideal of
a man I ' she had exclaimed. So strange are the
masculine ideals which some ladies have come to
set up for themselves in the days in Which we live.
She donned her most winning smile, therefore, as
she held out a tiny white gloved hand to this hero,
and thanked him for honouring her poor soiree
with his presence.

You will not find our little society amusing,
monsieur,' she said, deprecatingly ; ' but what can

you expect ? With the best will in the world,
it is impossible to transplant the Tuileries to
Africa.'

Saint-Luc expressed contented acquiescence
in this indisputable geographical fact, and took
an early opportunity of escaping from his amiable
hostess. He leant against the wall, and contemplated
the company with a gloomy disapproval
for which their provincialism was in no way
responsible. There was M. de Tremonville,
elderly, smooth-shaven, and dapper, rubbing his
hands and beaming through his spectacles — the
incarnation of a bureaucrat. (His real name
was Bonjean ; but, following the example of
many others of the Emperor's servants, he had
tacked the name of his native place on to his
own plebeian patronymic, and now signed himself
Bonjean de Tremonville, Alien he did not
forget the Bonjean altogether. ' After all,' as
Madame de Yaublanc was wont to say, in her
good-natured way, ' the man must have been
born somewhere, and why not at Tremonville — if
there be such a place ? Let us at least be thankful
that he did not first see the light at Conte
or Montmorency') Then there was Madame
Waranieff, a fat Russian lady, who was at Algiers

for her health, with her two fuzzy-haired marriageable
daughters on either side of her ; there was
little M. de Fontvieille, with his nose in the air,
conversing with Monseigneur the Archbishop,
who had condescended to show himself for a few
minutes at the house of so devout a member of
his flock as Madame de Tremonville ; there were
the Sous-Gouverneur, the Prefet, the Sous-prefer,
the Mayor, half-a-dozen generals, and their wives,
their daughters, their aides-de-camp, and their
secretaries.

Parbleu ! they are all here,' growled Saint-luc
under his breath — " all except the one person
whom I came to meet.'

But before the words had well escaped his
lips he heard the voice of his hostess behind him
welcoming some new-comer in her most honeyed
accents. ' Ah, dear madame, is it possible that my
poor little dance can have induced you to break
through your rule of going to bed at half-past
nine ? It is too great an honour that you dome
— really too great an honour ! ' And turning
round to see who this distinguished guest
might be, he became aware of Madame de
Vaublanc's sour visage, above which, serene and
beautiful, towered the head and shoulders of

Mademoiselle de Mersac. At this sight M. de
Saint-Luc's features, which had hitherto worn
an expression of the deepest dejection, became
suddenly cheerful and animated. He made a
hurried move in the direction of the doorway ;
but here his progress was interrupted by Madame
de Vaublanc, who was eagerly explaining to her
hostess that she was not there for her own
pleasure.

I never ofo to balls, not even to those even
by my most intimate friends, much less — that
is, I really never enter a ball-room. It was
Mademoiselle de Mersac who persuaded me — she
had no chaperon, and I did not wish her to be
deprived of a little amusement — she does not have
too much, poor child I — otherwise '

Then we are doubly indebted to mademoiselle,'
returned Madame de Tremonville,
sweetly. ' It was already very amiable of her
to join a party of which she will be the chief
ornament : but since she has brought you too
with her, madame, I have no more fear as to the
success of my evening.'

Oh, madame, your compliment is intended
to be ironical, no doubt ; ugly old women are no
attraction in any salon''

Kindness and courtesy, madame, are attractive
in persons of all ages.'

Saint-Luc waited patiently till these amenities
should be exhausted, and Madame de Vaublanc
should see fit to leave the gangway free. Meanwhile
Mr. Barrington, being less scrupulous,
had pushed his way past the old lady, with a
brief ' Pardon, madame ; ' and having shaken
hands with Jeanne, who received him cordially,
was writing his name upon her card. He wrote
it more than once, as Saint-Luc observed with
jealous surprise. What could there be in this
self-satisfied Englishman to make Jeanne, who
treated all men alike With the same hauteur unbend
towards him as towards an old friend?
Was it because he was a Protestant, a foreigner,
a man whom she could never be asked to marry,
that she allowed him to take her ball-card from
her hand, and only laughed when he held out
her fan at arm's length and pretended to criticise
the painting upon it with an artist's eye ? Saint -
Luc would fain have believed so ; but there was
a look of frank admiration in Mr. Barrington's
blue eyes which he could not but perceive, and
which caused him a good deal of uneasiness. At
length Madame de Vaublanc moved on into the

room, and then his opportunity came. He had
already bowed to Jeanne from afar, and had received
a cold acknowledgment of his salute. He
now stepped to her side as she swept past him.
Mademoiselle will accord me a dance, I hope ?
he said, humbly.

She stopped at once, and drawing out her card,
answered with that chilly politeness which always
froze poor Saint-luc's pretty speeches before they
were uttered, ' With pleasure, monsieur ; which
dance shall it be ? '

He named a waltz half-way down the programme,
and, with a slight bend of her head, she
had left him before he had found courage enough
to ask for a second one. He fell back, almost
inclined to laugh at his own timidity. The truth
is that the Yicomte de Saint-Luc, who had led
cotillons in the presence of royalty, who had
danced with princesses, and whose audacity in
pushing his advances towards any lady whom he
might chance to honour with his preference was a
matter of notoriety, was as diffident as any schoolboy
in the presence of the girl whom he loved.

I am an imbecile — a veritable imbecile,' he
murmured impatiently, as he lounged up to do his
duty to the lady of the house.

With her, at all events, he was quite at ease.
She belonged to a species with whose habits and
tastes he was thoroughly conversant ; and he
managed, without any effort, to dance with her
and take his fair share of the conversation, while,
at the same time, his whole attention was fixed
upon Jeanne, not one of whose movements escaped
him. Many other eyes besides his were
turned in the same direction. Mademoiselle de
Mersac did not often appear in Algerian ballrooms
; but when she did honour them by her
presence she never failed to excite more admiration
than anyone else in the room. Her beauty
was of that superb kind which refuses to be ignored
; it eclipsed the mere prettiness of other
women as the moon outshines the stars, and
extorted an unwilling tribute even from those who
would gladly have depreciated it — for unfortunately
the people who had been, or imagined
themselves to have been, slighted by the imperious
Jeanne formed no inconsiderable portion of any
society in which she was likely to show herself
This evening her praises were sung with more
cordiality than usual, for she was in an exceptionally
gracious mood, and, contrary to her custom,
had engaged herself for every dance. She refused

no partner till her card was full ; she waltzed
impartially with !Mr. Barrington, with M. de
Choisy, the Governor General's aide-de-camp,
with little Martin, a sub-lieutenant in a line regiment,
who was only admitted into Society because
his uncle was a bishop — and with a dozen others.
She wore a dress of pale primrose silk (it was her
habit to affect costumes somewhat richer than
those generally adopted by unmarried ladies), and
had steel ornaments on her neck, ears, and hair,
which flashed with every turn of her graceful
head. She was incontestably the most striking
figure in the room.

This did not please Madame de Tremonville,
who had no king for the part of second fiddle,
and who, previous to the arrival of this magnificent
rival, had flattered herself that she had
nothing to fear from comparison with any of her
guests. ' Do you admire gigantic women ? ' she
whispered to Saint-Luc. ' For my part, I think
excessive size is as much a defect in us as it is a
beauty in you.'

Saint-Luc, who stood six feet two in his socks,
answered mechanically that he had no eye for
proportions, but that those of madame were, with •
out doubt, the standard by which the whole sex

should be judged ; and received a playful tap on
the shoulder from his partner's fan, in acknowledgment
of this novel and delicate compliment.
Madame de Tremonville's green velvet and Brussels
lace, her exquisite complexion, and her wondrous
coiffure were altogether thrown away upon
him. He had not even noticed the diamonds
which encircled her throat and sparkled amid her
golden locks.

All paste,' sneered Madame de Vaublanc,
scrutinising these jewels from the corner where
she had ensconced herself beside a congenial
friend — ' bought in the Palais Eoyal for a few
hundred francs, you may be sure. Is it likely
that that poor man would accept a small employment
in Algeria if he could afford to give
his wife such diamonds as those ? Absurd ! '

Perhaps he did not buy them,' suggested the
other amiable matron ; ' perhaps they were a
present. It is said that M. de Tremonville does
not object to his wife's receiving occasional
marks of esteem from her friends. They were
talking of her the other night at the Palace — and

between ourselves ' Here the good lady's

voice IS lowered to so confidential a pitch that we
can't quite catch what she says. Very likely we

don't lose much. Communications of a somewhat
similar nature are to be heard every night in all
countries and in all classes of society. What is
an old woman without daughters to do at a ball,
except to take away the character of the young
ones ? Madame de Tremonville, whose conduct,
it must be allowed, had more than once exhibited
a target for the arrows of scandal to be aimed at,
knew very well that ladies of Madame de Yau-
blanc's calibre could do her very little real injury ;
it amused her to know that they were on her
track, and she liked to lead them on, and double,
and baffle them when she was in the humoiu'.
Partly with this laudable object in view, and
partly for her own gratification, she made a dead
set at Saint-luc during the early part of the
evening, dismissing her other partners to dance
with him again and again, till, seeing a large
figure 9 hung out in front of the orchestra, he
quitted her side rather abruptly.

At last ! ' he muttered, as he made his way
through the crowd to a small boudoir which he
had seen Jeanne enter with Barrington at the end
of the last dance. He found her seated on a low
divan, the Englishman sprawling at her side, and
presented himself with a bow. She glanced up at

VOL. I. K

him inquiringly, then down at her card, and rising
immediately placed her hand within the arm
which he offered her ; and so they re-entered the
ball-room.

You have danced a great deal this evening,
mademoiselle,' said Saint-Luc, with that strange
difficulty in opening the conversation which he
had never experienced in his intercourse with any
woman except Jeanne.

'Yes; a good deal.'

More than usual, I think.'

Yes ; rather more than usual.'

I fancied you did not care much for balls.'

Best selon

I suppose you mean that it depends upon
your partners,' said Saint-Luc, with a tinge of
annoyance in his voice. Her manner was disagreeable
enough to justify some resentment; but
it was more with himself than with her that he
was vexed ; for he felt that, somehow or other, he
Alas not showing to advantage.

Naturally,' she answered.

Is that Mr. Barrington a good dancer ? '

Mr. Barrington ? Yes, he dances well.'

He must differ then from the rest of his
nation. Without vanity, 1 will venture to assert

that you 'will find ten good dancers in France for
one in England.'

'Really?'

Yes. There are exceptions, of course ; but,
as a rule, Englishmen are not made for society.
They always seem to me to require the open air.
Out of doors they have a certain rough good
humour, which excuses a good deal of gaucherie ;
but put them in a salon, and they become insupportable.'


You have been in England, monsieur ? '

No ; but I have met a great many Englishmen.
Perhaps I am prejudiced, but frankly I do
not like them. After all, the French and English
are hereditary enemies.'

My mother was an Englishwoman ; and, for
my own part, I have always been proud of being
half English,' said Jeanne.

After that Saint-Luc thought he would change
the subject.

Is it an impertinence, mademoiselle,' he said,
to congratulate you upon your charming toilette ?
I have seen nothing like it since I left Paris.'

A very slight bend of the head, combined with
a supercilious droop of the eyelids and an upward
curve of the lips, seemed to imply, as plainly as

x2

politeness would permit, that Mademoiselle de
Mersac did consider the remark an impertinence.

Saint-Luc felt this to be rather hard ; it was
so utterly at variance with all his experience that
any lady should object to hear her dress praised.
He was completely silenced, and bit his moustache
moodily. It was Jeanne who spoke next.

Shall we not dance ? ' she said ; ' the waltz is
half over.'

It really seemed the only thing to be done.
In this particular, at all events, Saint-Luc felt that
he could hardly give offence. His Parisian apprenticeship
had lasted so long that he knew himself
to be a complete master of the art of waltzing ;
and as he piloted his partner smoothly and swiftly
through the throng, never losing time, and never
so much as brushing against another couple, he
took some comfort from the thought that though
it appeared impossible for him to open his mouth
in Jeanne's presence without angering her, she
could not, at least, complain of him as a partner.

When the dance was at an end, he got a little
disdainful compliment for his pains.

You have a right to criticise the dancing of
others, Monsieur de Saint-Luc,' said Jeanne ; ' your
own is perfect.' If she had added, * You are fit

for nothing better than dancing,' she could not
have conveyed her meaning more clearly to the
mind of her hearer.

The poor Yicomte was as much puzzled as he
was hurt. He could not in the least understand
the girl, nor what she was driving at. He would
have liked to ask her point-blank what he had
done to be so cruelly snubbed, and why she
should regard a man who had never willingly
offended her with such determined aversion. Had
he done so, he would have risen several degrees
in her estimation, and would probably have
got an honest answer into the bargain ; but he
thought that conventionality debarred him from
so straightforward a course — and, after a minute's
consideration, he could find no better rejoinder
than a rather aggrieved one to the effect that he
did not care about dancing, and would not have
been where he was that night, had he not been
told that he would be rewarded by meeting
Mademoiselle de Mersac.

You do not like dancing ? ' said Jeanne, incredulously,
passing by his reference to herself.
I thought you were such a famous leader of cotillons.
A propos, who leads the cotillon this
evening ? '

I suppose you know that I am to do it,' answered
Saint-Luc, with a little vexed laugh. ' I
should have preferred to refuse ; but what could I
do when that woman insisted ? She is one of those
people who are no more disturbed by a refusal
than a rhinoceros by a discharge of small shot.'

If you do not like her, why do you dance so
much with her ? ' asked Jeanne, gravely. ' You
have scarcely left lier side the whole evening, and
now you compare her to a rhinoceros. I wonder
what flattering likeness you will discover for me
when my back is turned.'

Saint-Luc was very patient, and very much in
love ; but this unremitting hostility was becoming
too much even for him. 'When you know me
better, mademoiselle,' he said, coldly, ' you will
find that I do not speak ill of my friends. As
for Madame de Tremonville, she is no friend of
mine. Here comes your partner for the next
dance. I suppose I must not hope to be honoured
by another.'

Mademoiselle de Mersac regretted that she
was engaged for the remainder of the evening ;
and so, with a slight inclination of her head,
passed back into the ball-room on the arm of the
happy M. Martin, leaving Saint-Luc to meditate

over the progress of his suit. He shrugged his
shoulders in contemptuous wonder at his own infatuation
as he made his way into the card-room,
where three old gentlemen were playing whist
with dummy ; and there he remained, not caring
to dance again, till the time came for him to
fitful his cotillon duties.

The cotillon, without which no French ball is
complete, has failed to take root as an institution
in England, probably because it has never
been rightly understood in this country, where,
indeed, it is usually considered to be a sort of
organised romp, of which the principal features
are the stationing of a lady in the middle of the
floor with a looking-glass in her hand, the throwing
of a ball to be scrambled for by a hue of male
competitors, and the affixing of a set of harness,
adorned with jingling-bells, to the shoulders of
foi' unhappy and self-conscious men, who are
then driven round the room, feebly endeavouring
to mitigate the absurdity of their position
by an agonised imitation of the pawing and
prancing of a spirited team. What Madame
de Tremonville understood by a cotillon was
something infinitely more intricate, more artistic,
and more decorous than this. With its

complicated figures, its crossings of hands, its frequent
changes of partners, its involutions and evolutions,
and its stately rhythmic measures which
melted into waltzes, it was a performance which
required some study and management, and no
one was expected to take part in it who was not
familiar with its more ordinary figures, and who
was not quick at catching up the new ones which
were constantly being introduced into it. The
inevitable looking-glass, the bouquets, and the
badges were not omitted from the programme ;
but they were by no means its chief feature, nor
did they lead to anything in the semblance of a
romp. Not that Madame de Tremonville had
any objection to the latter method of passing
the time when her more intimate friends were
gathered about her — on the contrary, she had
a strong predilection for it, derived like her
Ultramontanism, her penchant for bric-a-brac, and
many other incongruous tastes, from quarters
whence she obtained her notion of the prevailing
fashion — but, in mixed society, she judged it
best to earn a character for elegance rather than
eccentricity.

Are you not ashamed of yourself? ' she cried,
seeking out Saint-Luc in the card-room, towards
two o'clock in the morning, and rousing him

by her thin falsetto voice from the reverie in
which he had been printed. ' Does one go to
balls to look on at a game of whist ? '

What pleasure could it have given me to
remain in the ball-room and see you dancing with
others ? ' returned Saint-luc, in his politely perfunctory
manner.

Ah, bah ! you were lazy. I would have
danced with you if you had taken the trouble to
ask me. In your absence, I have been amusing
myself with your friend the little marquis,
whom I found much improved by his travels.
He will developed himself. I have great hopes of
him. But now I am Q:oiiJ<? to make you work,
whether you will or no. Here is the list of
our figures for the cotillon. With which would
you advise me to begin ? '

Saint-Luc took the strip of paper which she
handed to him, and having perused it, briefly
delivered his opinion as to one or two points
in the programme ; Madame de Tremon\'ille
listening to him with as much reverence as a
newly-joined subaltern displays in listening to
his colonel. Li truth, Saint-Luc had long ago
reached the highest grades in that service of
fashionable society of which the lady was buta
hanger-on and exiled admirer.

Entering the ball-room presently, laden with
the paraphernalia of flowers, ribbons, hoops, and
so forth, necessary for the task set before him, he
was surprised to see Jeanne seated upon one of the
chairs which had been ranged round the room
for the convenience of the dancers. Knowing
how seldom she lingered at any entertainment
after midnight, he had not counted upon seeing
her again that evening, and perhaps the sight of
her might have pleased as well as surprised him
if the tenant of the chair next to hers had not
been Mr. Barrington. As it was, he frowned
uneasily. Of Barrington in the character of a
possible husband for Jeanne he had no fear ;
difference of nation, religion, and language were
sufficient guarantees against the chance of such
a match being proposed ; but he was jealous,
furiously jealous, of the man who, without any
apparent effort, had managed to make himself
acceptable to Mademoiselle de Mersac during an
entire evening, and who was even now bending
over her with a familiarity which he — Saint-Luc
would never have dared to assume. Had he
been a vain man he would have been mortified
at the ease with which another had succeeded
where he had so lamentably failed ; but vain he

was not — only envious and jealous, as was but
natural under the circumstances.

Saint-Luc had reduced the leading of a
cotillon to a science. He could direct its most
intricate movements, and at the same time reserve
a large portion of his attention for some
other subject. He was able, therefore, to acquit
himself to the entire satisfaction of his hostess,
while watching with increasing pain and wonder
the progress of the sudden intimacy which had
sprung up between Jeanne and the Englishman.
Observing the unconscious couple thus closely, he
soon became aware of a phenomenon for which
he was at first at a loss to account ; namely, that,
whereas Barrington was evidently in the best of
spirits, and grew more talkative and merry with
each successive figure, Jeanne, on the contrary,
was as evidently dissatisfied, and became gradually
graver and more pre-occupied, till at last she
ceased to speak to or notice her partner at all.
It was not till the cotillon was three parts over
that Saint-Luc discovered the clue to this change
of mood. A most decided frown upon Jeanne's
straight brows and an impatient tap of her foot
enlightened him. He followed the direction of
her glance, and was just in time to catch the conclusion

of a little scene which the rest of the
company had been watching with more or less
of satirical interest. Exactly in the centre of the
room, before the eyes of all Algiers, Madame de
Tremonville, having selected a flower from a
bouquet which she held in her hand, was
presenting it to Leon, who, with the sublime
fatuity of which only a very young Frenchman
can be capable, raised it to his lips before fixing
it into his button-hole. The figure which had
just come to an end was that in which gentlemen
are permitted to select their partners by the presentation
of a bouquet, and it was in the abovementioned
way that the mistress of the house
chose to manifest her recognition of the compliment
paid her by the young marquis. Saint-Luc
recollected immediately that Madame de Grenville
had invariably singled out Leon when she
had been called upon to choose a partner, and the
reason of Jeanne's displeasure became obvious to
him. Li her place he would have been disposed
rather to laugh than to be angry ; but, regarding
Jeanne as he did with a reverential awe, as a
being of infinitely greater purity and nobility than
himself, he understood that, in her eyes, any
semblance of flirtation with a married woman

must be a heinous crime, and more with a view
to saving her annoyance than to rescuing his young
friend from any possible peril, he resolved to take
an early opportunity of speaking a few words of
friendly caution to Leon. His own bouquet,
which he ought by rights to have presented to
some lady, lay unheeded on the floor at his side.
He had not taken the trouble to offer it to anyone,
seeing that the only person in the room
whose good-will he valued in the least had shown
him in the most unmistakable manner that his
attentions were unwelcome.

But now humility was unexpectedly rewarded.
For, the order of the dance being changed, and it
being the thun of the ladies to choose the partners
most agreeable to them, who should come gravely
up to the diffident Yicomte, with a little badge of
red ribbon upheld between her finger and thumb,
but Mademoiselle de Mersac ?

Saint-Luc started, half delighted, half-doubtful.
For a second he thought the stately youno-
lady who stood before him must have made some
mistake ; but no — there was the knot of red ribbon
within an inch of his nose, proffered a trifle
disdainfully, it is true, yet distinctly intended for
him. He pinned it on his coat, too much bewildered

to find any words, and mechanically
placed Ms arm round Jeanne's slender waist.
But before he had taken half a turn round the
room, his partner let him know that she wished
to stop. They were then exactly opposite the
door.

I am going away,' she said in that quiet,
commanding tone, as of a superior to an inferior,
which she always used in addressing Saint-Luc.
If they can spare you for a few minutes, I should
be much obliged if you would take me out to get
my wraps.'

They must spare me,' he answered joyfully,
leading her out into the dim hall, where Madame
de Vaublanc, with a wonderful peaked hood on
her head and a multiplicity of cloaks and mufflers
about her small person, was awaiting her charge.
'If they want me, they must do without me. I
should be perfectly willing to send them all to
purgatory for the chance of doing you the smallest
service.'

That will not be necessary,' answered Jeanne,
with a slight smile ; but it happens that I have
to ask you to do me a small service — in fact, I
brought you out here for that purpose.'

If it be in my power to do what you wish.

mademoiselle, you may consider it an accomplished
fact.'

It is certainly in your power,' lie said, and
paused for a moment. Then she resumed, rather
hurriedly — ' You have great influence over my
brother — more, I think, than I have, in some
things. I want you to use it to keep him away
from Madame de Tremonville. You will understand
what I mean. You saw what took place
to-night ; and Leon is a young man ; and — and I
suppose all young men are the same. And he
will listen to you, though I doubt whether he
would listen to me. I would not ask you to dome
this favour,' she concluded, ' if it were likely to
give you any trouble or inconvenience ; but, so far
as I can see, it will do neither. After all, you can
scarcely have any interest in bringing my brother
and Madame de Tremonville together.'

For an instant the colour rose to Saint-Luc's
pale cheeks, and his eyes flashed ; but he had
perfect self-control, and it was without any show
of anger, though more coldly than usual, that he
answered, ' I do not know from whence you have
derived your opinion of me, mademoiselle ; but it
does not appear to be a high one. For the rest,
you are quite right — I am not worth much ; yet

I am capable occasionally of acting from other
motives than those of self-interest ; and as to the
subject of which you speak, I had already intended
to take the liberty of saying a few words to your
brother about it — so that you need not feel
annoyed by the thought that you are under any
obligation to me — however small — in the matter

And as Jeanne looked at him a little doubtfully,
he added, ' Some day, mademoiselle, you will perhaps
acknowledge that, whatever my faults maybe,
I am, at least, not untrue to my friends.'

Jeanne, not being as yet convinced of the
truth of this statement, and finding nothing to
say in answer to it, merely bowed, and turned to
follow Madame de Vaublanc, whom M. de Grenville
was now helping into her carriage. But
when she had taken a few steps, she wheeled
round, and marching back to Saint-Luc, said
abruptly —

It is possible that I have been unjust to you,
monsieur ; if so, I am sorry for it. And I think
I treated you rather rudely earlier in the evening ;
I am very sorry for that also, and I beg your
pardon. Now you had better return to the ballroom,
or they will wonder what has become of
you. Good-night.'

The apology was not a very graceful one, nor
was it delivered by any means in a contrite tone ;
but, such as it was, Saint-Luc gladly accepted it,
and went back to conclude his duties with a somewhat
lighter heart. As for Jeanne, she left the
house telling herself that she neither liked the
man nor trusted him, but that, upon the whole,
she had perhaps been wrong in letting him see so
plainly what her feelings with regard to him were.
She had, therefore, offered him her excuses — and
what more could be expected of her ?

At the door she net Barrington, who came
up, hat in hand, and said eagerly, 'You won't
forget your promise, will you ? '

My promise ? ' she returned interrogatively.
Oh, you mean about the picture. Xo, I will not
forget, and if the Duchess has no objection, I shall
be happy to appear in it. When will you come
and make your arrangements ? To-morrow?
Very well ; then we will expect you at breakfast-time
— twelve o'clock. Good-night.'

She spoke indifferently enough, being at the
moment occupied with reflections in which the
Englishman and his artistic tastes had no share,
but her voice had a perceptibly more friendly ring
than that in which she lead addressed Saint-Luc ;

VOL. I. L

and Barrington, as he lit this cigar, and strolled
down towards the town, through scented orange-groves,
and under the shade of oves and carob-trees,
grey and ghostly in the starlight, laughed
triumphantly to himself. ' I was sure I should get
her to sit to me,' he thought. ' Eeally, if people
only knew it, the best way to gain anything is to
ask for it. Most men don't understand that, and
lose what they want because they wait for it to be
offered to them. Heavens ! what a splendid creature
she is, and how mad that poor devil of a
Frenchman is about her. I doubt whether his
asking for what he wants would be of much use ;
yet he would have a better chance if he came
straight to the point with her, instead of throwing
himself down at her feet to be trampled upon. I
could give him a hint or two, if I wanted him to
succeed — only I don't.'

CHAPTEE Vn.

Barrington STUDIES THE PICTURESQUE.

Colour,' said Barrington sententiously, leaning
back in his rocking-chair and pointing with the
end of his cigarette to the liquid blue sky above
him with lazy approbation — ' colour is one of the
chief delights of existence. It is wonderful how
few people realise that truth. And yet all human
beings are more or less under the influence of
colour, and are made happy by the sight of it, or
dispirited by its absence, as they would know if
they took the pains to analyse their sensations.
The man who has the room next to mine at the
Hotel orient is dying of consumption ; his doctor
has sent him here, without a single relation or
friend, to get well — which he has about as much
chance of doing as I have of becoming Pope ; and
he doesn't speak more than a few words of French,
and he doesn't like foreign cooking, and he says
the fleas bite him, and he wishes to goodness he

L 2

was back in England. One can't help taking an
interest in one's next door neighbour — though I
must say I wish he didn't cough so much at
nights ; but that is not his faut, poor beggar ! — so
I generally look in after breakfast and try to cheer
him up a little. Well, this morning when I went
to see him as usual, I found him sitting at the
open window, twirling a bunch of violets between
his finger and thumb, and whistling as merrily as a
cricket. I asked him what made him so cheerful
and he said he really didn't know, unless it was
that there was a fine warm sun to-day. Stuff !
Take the man's violets away from him, and plant
him in his arm-chair in the middle of the Sahara,
and do you suppose he would whistle ? Not he !
I knew, though he didn't, that it was the sight of
the cobalt sea and the far-away purple hills, and
the Moors in the street below, and the children
selling flowers, and of a hundred subtle effects
produced by refraction, that was making him
happy ; and I declare, when I looked at him, I
wished with all my heart that his relations would
come out here to him, and that he would not live
to return to England. One feels nearer Heaven
in such a climate as this ; and, for my part, I
never can understand how it is that there is as

much crime in the South of Europe as in the
North. Hang it all ! you have no right to be
wicked in a country where Nature is so kind to
you. Thanks ; I will take just one drop of that
green Chartreuse, and then, if you will allow me,
I will go and find your sister, and set to work.'

Mr, Barrington was sitting in the verandah at
the Campagne de Mersac. Through the open
windows of the dinner-room at his back might
have been seen a deserted breakfast-table, whose
snowy damask, heaped-up fruit, half-empty decanters,
and profusion of flowers formed a combination
of colour which he had already duly appreciated
while rendering justice to the merits of his
friends' cook. At his side was a small table, on
which stood a silver Moorish coffee-pot, two cups,
and a liqueur-decanter, and beyond it, Leon, clad
in a complete suit of white duck, reclined in an
easy chair, puffing at his cigarette with a somewhat
bewildered expression of countenance, having
had some difficulty in following the foreign idiom
in which the above harangue had been couched.

One has no right to be wicked anywhere,' he
observed, with undeniable justice, in reply to the
speaker's last words.

Of course not ; but don't you see what a

difference surroundings ought to make ? A man
who at the end of his day's work finds himself ina
dismal, filthy street, with the rain chilling him
to the bones, and no object that his eyes can rest
upon but what is hideous and melancholy, naturally
betakes himself to the first place where he
can get liquor enough to make him forget his
misery — after which he goes home, and, by way
of protest against the hopelessness of his existence,
knocks his wife down and kicks her about the
head.'

I do not think we do that in Algeria,' said
Leon ; ' but there are often cases of stabbing,
especially among the Spaniards, whose knives are
always ready. And as to the climate, you cannot
judge of its effects till you have spent a summer
here, and have felt the influence of a three days'
sirocco upon your nerves. I can assure you that
after twenty-four hours of it, you would be
capable of taking your own mother by the hair if
she irritated you ; and, as a fact, there is far more
violence at such times than ordinarily.'

Indeed ? So it all works round to much the
same thing in the end ; and there is compensation
in everyone's lot — or at least, a grievance, which
is still pleasant. All the same, I don't think I

should mind living in Algeria ; in fact, I think I
should very much like it, and I am not sure that
I wouldn't do it if I were a free man, and hadn't
my own poor acres to look after in England. I
wonder now whether one could make a small farm-here
pay its way ; it would be an excuse for running
over for a few months every year.'

Leon shook his head. 'You would be
robbed,' he said. • Even if you lived upon your
farm, it is not likely that you would make money
by it, and if you were absent it is certain that
you would lose a great deal. Besides, the life
would not suit you, even for a few months. Forme
it is different. I have been accustomed to it
from a child, and I have no dislike either to the
heat or the loneliness of the summer. Some day
I will take you out to the little farm where I
breed my horses, beyond Koleah, and we ^vill getup
a boar-hunt to amuse you. You will be pleased
with it at this season of the year, for it stands
high, overlooking the Metidja plain and facing
the Atlas mountains, and the air is strong and
fresh, and though there is no cultivation just in
the neighbour-hood, you can see the corn-fields
and orange-groves beneath you, and the white
houses of Bhdah far away under the opposite

hills ; but in summer it is melancholy enough.
Then the whole country is parched and burnt
brown ; there is generally a mist over the mountains,
and most people find the silence oppressive.
Nevertheless old Pierre Cauvin and I generally
spend three weeks or so there in August, and
sometimes Jeanne comes with us, and then we areas
happy as children. Early every morning, and
again at sunset, we gallop over the country for
miles, and the young horses follow us in a troop,
squealing and kicking up their heels, and we feel
as if the whole world belonged to us. Ah, that
is the life ! I like the world and society and
amusement, but I don't think I ever enjoy myself
so well as when I am quite free, and away from
civilisation. I suppose living so much among the
Arabs has made me a little of a savage at heart.
Jeanne, Mr. Barrington says he would like to buy
a farm in Algeria, and I tell him he would lose
his money if he did, and would hate the country
and the climate into the bargain. It is not everyone
who can transform himself into a Bedouin like
you and me, ma soeur.'

Leon had spoken in his own language, but
Jeanne, who now showed herself at the window,
with Turco at her side, turned to Barrington with

a bright smile and addressed him in English,
which she spoke quite correctly, but with just
enough of foreign accent to lend it a charm not
its own.

You really think of buying land here ? ' she
said. ' How delightful that would be ! '

Barrington was so much pleased and flattered,
that if Leon had offered to sell him a few hundred
acres off-hand, he would very likely have consented
to the bargain then and there ; but before
he had time to reply, Jeanne broke into a laugh
at the absurdity of her own notion. ' Of course
you were not speaking seriously,' she said.
Algiers is pleasant enough in the winter time,
and when you have a comfortable hotel to lodge
in ; but to hive in one of our rough farmhouses —
that is another thing ! I think you would not
remain with us long. Now, when will you begin
your picture ? '

Whenever you are ready,' answered Barrington.
'I thought, if you did not mind taking up
your position in that chair at the end of the
verandah, I might station myself in the garden
below, so as to get in the marabout, which is
really the most characteristic part of the house.'

It was the house that this artful schemer had

requested permission to delineate. He represented
himself as an enthusiastic admirer of Moorish
architecture, and only suggested as an innocent
afterthought that a portrait of Mademoiselle de
Mersac, seated on the balcony, would add life to his
picture. He went off in search of his materials,
and, on his return, found that he was likely to
have a tete-astute interview with his fair model,
Leon having slipped away to look after his farm
duties.

So much the better ; two is company, three
is none,' he thought, as he set up his easel within
a few feet of the carved balustrade beside which
Jeanne was sitting in a low chair, Turco resting
his great head on her knee, and blinking lazily
from his shady position at the painter out in the
sunshine.

Surely you are placing yourself too close,'
Jeanne said, turning to look down upon him ;
you will only be able to take a very small
corner of the house from where you are sitting.'

It is only a very small corner that I want,'
replied Barrington, without hesitation. ' As far as
general effect goes, these Moorish buildings are
not striking ; their beauty lies in their carved
woodwork and arabesques and marble pillars.

and, and, and — in detail, in short. If I were a
dozen yards away, I couldn't possibly do justice
to the detail — don't you see.'

Could you not ? I am very glad, at all
events, that you are obliged to approach so near,
for now we can talk,' said Jeanne, unsuspectingly.
'I am anxious to hear what you think of our
Httle colonial society. Did you enjoy yourself
last night ? '

'Immensely,' answered Barrington with a
strong emphasis on the word. ' I don't know when
I have enjoyed a ball so much. Would you mind
turning round a little, so that I may get your
face quite in profile ? I shall have to take one
or two sketches before I begin the picture itself.
Thank you very much. How could I do otherwise
than enjoy myself when — when everybody
was so kind and hospitable? And you — were
you tolerably well amused ? '

'Oh, yes,' answered Jeanne, a slight cloud
coming over her face, ' it was very pleasant — at
least for part of the evening. I got a little tired
of it towards the end ; but I am not very fond of
balls.'

I am afraid you must have repented of your
kindness in giving me the cotillon,' said Barrington,

executing a few rapid strokes, and surveying
the result with his head thrown back. ' I am nota
first-rate waltzer, I know.'

First-rate, no ! ' answered Jeanne, candidly ;
*but you dance very well — remarkably well,
indeed, for an Englishman. Besides, I am not
exacting.'

I suppose we English are a clumsy people,' remarked
Barrington, with just a tinge of disappointment
in his tone — for indeed he was considered
an excellent dancer both in his own county and
in London — ' our education does not include a
great many useful little accomplishments. As forme,
I have perhaps had rather more advantages
than other fellows — not that I am conceited about
it, or anything of that kind, you know — still I
did learn to dance at Vienna.'

Did you ? ' said Jeanne, stroking Turco's head
and gazing absently out to sea. ' The Austrians
are the best waltzers in the world, are they not ? '

She was evidently so little interested in the
subject that Barrington did not think it worth
while to reply to her last question, and returned
to his sketch with an uncomfortable impression of
having vaunted himself without effect.

There was a silence of nearly fine minutes.

which Jeanne broke at last by taking up the conversation
exactly where she had left it.

You do not care to be thought a good dancer,
do you ? ' she asked.

I ? Oh, I don't know— yes, I think I do.
One always likes to do everything as well as one
can.'

But dancing is such an effeminate thing I For
women it is very well, but men have so many
better ways of distinguishing themselves. I like
Englishmen, because they are more manly in their
amusements than Frenchmen. A man ought to
be a man ; and that is why I always tell Leon to
imitate the English in everything except — except
in a few small particulars. He talks a great deal
about your riding and shooting, and says you are
de premiere force in everything of that kind.'

Oh dear no ! I don't think I am really what
you could call good at anything. I can shoot
pretty fairly some days, but not by any means
always ; and shooting, I believe, is my chief
accomplishment. You see an idle man is bound
to take up all sorts of different pursuits, and it
would be odd if he couldn't succeed in any of
them. I am a Jack-of-all-trades and master of
none, as we say in England. Your tother

thinks me a wonderful fellow because I can speak
French and play the piano and paint a little ; but
your brother, I fancy, is rather inclined to magnify
the talents of his friends. He is a little enthusiastic,
isn't he?'

Leon ? Yes, a little : he is young,' answered
Jeanne in a tone of kind toleration, as though she
and youth had nothing in common.

At his age,' resumed Barrington, with that
sententiousness which some of his friends occasionally
found rather trying, ' one receives impressions
rather than forms judgments. A lad of
twenty or twenty-one seldom sees far below the
surface, and is very apt to make friends with
associates who may do him incalculable harm
before he finds them out.'

You are not speaking of yourself, I suppose ? '

Well, no ; I do not push modesty quite sofar.
But frankly, I do think that your brother is
getting into a set here which is not likely to do
him any good. I hope I don't offend you by
saying so.'

Not at all ; on the contrary, you would do mea
great kindness if you would tell me in what way
you think he is in danger. He is his own master
now,' said Jeanne with a half sigh ; ' but I have

still more power with him, I believe, than anyone
eke.'

Exactly. I knew that, or I should not have
ventured to broach the subject. The fact is, that,
if I were you, I should try to keep him away from
that fellow, Saint-Luc'

You do not like M. de Saint-Luc ? '

No ; I dislike him particularly. But it is nota
question of king or disliking. He might be the
pleasantness fellow in existence, and yet a very bad
companion for a lad just entering the world. He
belongs to a class which I happen to know something
of, and which includes a great many very
agreeable and entertaining people ; only unfortunately
they have not got a vestige of a principle
among them. The first time I saw M. de Saint -
Luc, I knew at once what he was — a man who
would do anything, except perhaps cheat at
cards.'

I don't think he means any harm to. Leon,'
said Jeanne, who had a dislike to speaking ill of
the absent.

Means ! — well, possibly not ; but example is
more powerful than intention. Then there is
Madame de Tremonville. From the little I sa^\'
of her, she is another person whom I should be

inclined to warn any young brother of mine
against.'

Why do you say that ? ' asked Jeanne sharply,
wheeling round in her chair, and facing Mr. darlington
with an anxious look, which he saw,
though he pretended to be still occupied with his
work.

I have no special reason,' he answered — ' I
am afraid I must trouble you to place yourself in
the same position that you were in just now.
Thank you very much. I have no particular
reason for condemning Madame de Tremonville ;
but for all that you may take my word for it that
she is not a safe friend for an impressionable young
man. When you joined us, he was saying how
he enjoyed life at his farm in the country ; if I
where you, I would induce him to go out there
now for a change of air.'

He would not do that,' answered Jeanne.
And, besides, he has been so long away that we
could not spare him again just at present. But it
is kind of you to take an interest in him,' she
added, after a pause, ' and I shall think over what
you have said.'

She dismissed the subject as a queen dismisses
an audience ; and Barrington, amused though he

was by her unconscious imperiousness, was not
bold enough to say any more. He worked on
silently at the rough sketch which he had begun,
indulging himself, from time to time, with a furtive
study of the beautiful, composed face which
showed no consciousness of his scrutiny. ' I wonder
Avhat her futile will be,' he mused. ' Xot an
altogether happy one, I should hope ; I doubt
whether happiness would be becoming to her.
Those great melancholy eyes and that calm sweet
mouth were made to triumph over adversity, not
to lose their meaning in commonplace domestic
bliss. Imagine her married to a fat Frenchman,
and the mother of three or four squalling brats
with cropped heads — oh, odious thought ! No ;
she must have some more exciting — more romantic
history than that. I think I should prefer
her to remain unmarried — perhaps have an unfortunate
attachment in early life, so as to subdue
her a little, and soften down that occasional hardness
of manner which is her one defect. Then
she must have her share of trouble — that, no
doubt, will be provided by our young friend Leon
and gradually withdraw from the world, giving
herself up more and more to good works. Of
course her house will always be open to receive

VOL. I. M

an old friend, though — that I shall certainly require
of her, and '

At this juncture the subject of his day-dream
interrupted him by remarking —

It is very tiring to sit so long in the same
attitude. Can you not draw the balcony for a
few minutes, and allow me to move ? Ah, here
is M. de Fontvieille. A la bonne heure ! Now 1
shall be obliged to get up and shake hands with
him.'

Old M. de Fontvieille, who had just appeared
round the corner of the house, came forward,
holding in his hand the broad-leaved Panama hat
which the exigencies of the climate compelled him
to wear rather against the grain. In the town,
or when paying visits of ceremony, he affected the
tall, very tall black hat of a bygone period of
fashion, and at all times and in all places the rest
of his costume was a model of scrupulous neatness.


His erect and dapper little figure was evidently
not unacquainted with artful appliances in the
shape of stays and padding ; this tightly-fitting
grey trowsers were strapped under a tiny pair of
boots, so highly polished that it was impossible to
look at them, on a sunshiny day, without blinking

; and his grey moustache and imperial were
carefully waxed.

As he bent over Jeanne's outstretched hand,
he threw up at her one of those languishing
glances which had done terrible execution in the
days when the world was forty years younger.
They were innocent enough now, those speaking
looks from eyes which age had long since dimmed,
and were meant to express nothing more than
that respectful homage which M. de Fontvieille
had never in his life failed to render to any member
of the fair sex, whether old or young, plain or
pretty. The old gentleman had retained the manner,
as well as the costume, of a youth which had
been prolonged beyond the limits of middle age,
and ogled grandmothers and grandchildren with
perfect impartiality.

I have been paying my respects to Madame
la Duchesse,' he said ; ' and I have made her
promise to come out into the garden shortly to
enjoy this divine sunshine. She left me in the
drawing-room, saying that she would put on her
bonnet and return in two minutes. I waited for
her half an hour, and then, as I was beginning to
tire of my own company, I thought I might venture
to step round and wish you good-morning.

So you are about to be immortalised, Jeanne?
Will you do me the honour to present me to
monsieur ? '

Barrington rose and bowed, as Jeanne made
the requested introduction, and M. de Fontvieillo
bent his grey head till it was almost in a line with
his knees, and brushed the gravel with a backward
sweep of his Panama hat.

You are an amateur artist, monsieur ? ' said
the elder gentleman. ' I envy you your talent :
you are in a country which should be the paradise
of artists ; and you have a magnificent landscape
before you. May I be permitted to glance at your
canvas ? '

Certainly,' answered Barrington, standing
back to allow" the other to approach his easel ;
but it is not precisely the landscape that I propose
to paint. As you see by the rough sketch
before you, I am attempting nothing more ambitious
than a souvenir' of this exquisite old building;
and mademoiselle has very kindly consented to let
me have a likeness of herself in the foreground.'

Ah, I perceive,' said the old gentleman, peering
inquisitively at the outline through his double
eye-glass — ' a study of the Campagne and mademoiselle
; or perhaps I ought rather to say, of

mademoiselle and the Campagne. Both charming
subjects, monsieur, and I admire your taste in
having accorded the largest portion of your space
to the more deserving of the two.'

'Mademoiselle is in the foreground,' began
Barrington, explanatorily.

Naturally. It would have been impolite to
place her anywhere else,' returned M. de Font-vieille,
with a twinkle in his eye. ' Do you paint
in oils or in water-colours, monsieur ? '

In oils.'

Ah ! and that requires many sittings, does it
not ? — a picture in oils.'

Barrington answered vaguely that it was impossible
to fix in advance the time required for
the completion of any picture ; and then, to his
relief, the Duchess joined the group, leaning upon
her stick, and M. de Fontvieille desisted from his
queries.

The two old people went away together presently,
and began a steady, slow promenade up and
down over the gravel walks, while Barrington returned
to his work, and Jeanne to her reflections.

And how does the affaire Saint-Luc progress
? ' enquired M. de Fontvieille, as soon as he
and his old friend were out of earshot.

The Duchess made a grimace. 'As far as I
can see, it does not progress at all,' she answered.
You know how perverse Jeanne is ; it is mere
waste of time and temper to attempt to influence
her. Happily M. de Saint-Luc is of a very-patient
disposition ; and, moreover, he is desperately
in love with the girl. I trust in time, and
say nothing ; but I wish the matter could be settled
one way or the other. At my age, Time is
an uncertain friend ; I may have to part with him
for ever before I am a year older, and then what
is to become of Jeanne ? Ah, the poor old Marquis!
If he had not taken it into his head to
marry an Englishwoman, how much trouble we
might all have been spared ! '

Jeanne, for one, would have been spared the
trouble of existence,' observed M. de Fontvieille.
Her father's marriage may have been no blessing
for her ; but it has provided you and me, madame,
with an interest for our old age. Does M. de
Saint-Luc come here often ? '

No, not very often. He is ceremonious, and
will not visit us without an invitation. Certainly
he is invited tolerably frequently ; but then, you
understand, it is I who ask him, and he is not
always well received.'

'It is a pity,' remarked M. de Fontvieille,
meditatively, with a glance in the direction of the
house, where Barrington and Jeanne were to be
seen apparently engaged in animated conversation
— ' it is a pity that M. de Saint-Luc is not an
artist.'

Ah, bah ! ' returned the Duchess, following
his look and his thought ; ' there is no danger.
Jeanne, if she is deficient in some good qualities,
has at least that of common sense ; and that Mr.
Barrington (who, jar imrentlihe^ is a much better
informed and more agreeable person than most of
his compatriots) is no longer young enough to
make a fool of himself. Everybody knows that
mixed marriages always end in misery. If, however,
you have any fears,' she added with a short
sardonic laugh, ' I will tell Jeanne that the Englishman
is an excellent jyarti^ and that I have a
high opinion of him. That ^vill dispose of him
effectually.'

He is rich, they say.'

My dear monsieur, of what are you dreaming
? If he had all the wealth of the Rothschild,
do you suppose that would make any
difference ? No, no ! we have had enough of
English marriages in the de Mei-sac family. But

I tell you there is no danger at all. Come, let us
talk of something else. I am weary of vexing
myself, night and day, with the question of Jeanne's
future.'

The future ? My dear madame, we have
reached an age — you and I — at which most mortals
cease to have any control over future events,
and retain very little over present ones. We
have acted our part and said our say in this
world, and must now stand aside to make room
for a younger generation. All that we can do is
to offer good advice — which we may be pretty
sure will not be accepted. Did you act upon advice
when you were young, madame ? For my
part, nothing short of coercion had any influence
upon me ; and Jeanne is not precisely a person to
be coerced. Wh}^, then, vex yourself? Jeanne
will take her own way, and very likely it will not
be a bad way. Only, if I were in your place, and
if I were determined that she should marry M de
Saint-Luc, I should seriously recommend that
gentleman to develop a talent for drawing. But
I see that the subject is displeasing to you ; pardon
me if I have been indiscreet in pursuing it.'
M. de Fontvieille stood still in the gravel path.

took off his hat, and bowed profoundly as he
made this apology.

Will you come now and see my sapphires F '
he continued. ' They are good stones — that I
know ; but I want the benefit of your taste as to
the best setting for them.'

M. de Fontvieille had for some years been
the tenant of the neighbouring villa, which the
Duchess had taken upon her first arrival at Algiers,
and which she had occupied up to the time of the
old Marquis's death. He had filled the house
with curiosities and works of art of one kind and
another, being a well-to-do old gentleman, and
having some difficulty in disposing of the superfluity
of his income ; but his chief craze was his
collection of precious stones. These, the possession
of which was doubly dear to him by reason of
many a well-remembered haggle and protracted
bargain preceding their purchase, he kept in certain
strong boxes fitted, for that purpose, with
velvet-covered trays, and exhibited, with just
pride, to appreciative friends.

What ? More gems ! ' cried the Duchess.
You will ruin yourself, my friend ; and, one of
these fine mornings, yom' servant will murder you,

and run away with your treasures. I will see the
sapphires, though : I am not too old to take delight
in looking at pretty things

So the two old people disappeared from the
garden ; and were a considerable time absent ;
for, once the boxes were unlocked, neither of
them could resist going through the entire collection.
When they returned, the western sky
was flooded with a glow of orange light, upon
which tiny golden cloudlets floated ; the flowerbeds
were barred with long black shadows from
the cypresses, and the air was sharp with the
chill which in southern latitudes invariably heralds
the sunset. Jeanne had left her post in the verandah,
and was standing beside the artist, who had
already packed up his easel, paint-box, and other
belongings.

Mademoiselle is going to introduce me to her
live stock,' said the latter.

Oh, indeed,' answered the Duchess. ' Are
you fond of animals, Mr. Barrington ? '

Devoted to them.'

'Mafoi! then I envy you your taste. If I
could share it my life would be far pleasant
than it is ; but unluckily for me, I have never had
any love for menageries. That dog Turco is bad

enough : he keeps me in constant terror by his
habit of bouncing out unexpectedly from behind
doors, and oversetting the unwary ; but he is an
angel in comparison with the ^vild boar, or with
Jeanne's jackal, whom we call Jeremie on account
of his ceaseless lamentations. Do you know what
it is, monsieur, to be kept awake, the whole night
through, by the howling of a jackal ? But of
course you do not. If a jackal howled under
your window, you would take a gun, in the
course of five minutes, and go out and kill him.
That is also what I should do if I were a man ;
but being only an old woman, and timid of firearms,
I have to lie still, and listen to the senseless
cries of that evil beast till I'm almost maddened,
and '

I had no idea that you could hear him on
your side of the house, madame,' interposed
Jeanne, apologetically. ' If he disturbs you, we
will send him away into the country.'

Useless, dear child ! His empty kennel would
remain, and neither you nor Leon would aUo^^-
it to stand long unoccupied. 1 prefer present
known evils to future indefinite ones. Would you
believe, monsieur*, that we once had a hyaena
chained in the backyard for three days ? On the

fourth day he broke loose, and was found at
night scratching at the graves in the churchyard.
Imagine what a scandal ! He was summarily put
to death. As for that depraved Jeremie, I have
become accustomed to him after a fashion ; and
how do I know what his successor might be?
Very probably a porcupine, who would wander
about the house, and who would be sure to take a
delight in remaining motionless whenever I entered
one of those dark rooms, so that I might
take him for a divan, and seat myself upon him.
But I must not keep you standing an}^ longer in
this chilly air. You will excuse me, I am sure, if
I do not offer to accompany you to the yard.'

And so the old lady vanished through the
doorway, followed by M. de Fontvieille, who,
after a moment's hesitation between dread of rheumatism
and doubt as to the prudence of leaving
Jeanne alone any longer with the Englishman,
found the former consideration the weightier of
the two, and yielded to it accordingly.

Barrington was very willing to excuse both the
old people. He followed Jeanne across the courtyard
to the stable, whose tenants squealed and
hinted, as only Arab horses can, at the entrance
of their mistress ; was presented to the unattractive

Jeremie, to the wild boar, to numerous dogs,
and finally to a pair of beautiful soft-eyed gazelles,
the male of whom no sooner espied the stranger
than, with a grunt of defiance, he put his head
down, dashed at him like an express train, and
would probably have succeeded in producing a
humiliating catastrophe, had not his mistress
caught him deftly by the horns in mid-career,
and held him captive in her strong white hands.

Shortly afterwards Barrington took his leave,
having obtained permission to return on the following
day, and set to work in earnest upon his
picture.

In a letter which he addressed, about this
time, to the same friend at whose correspondence
we have already had a glimpse, occurs, inter
alia, the following passage : —

It is a great mistake to suppose, as many
people do, that feminine beauty of form consists
solely in rounded outlines, and that any appearance
of strength is a defect in a woman. I hate
fat arms, and flabby, dimpled, powerless hands.
Nature no more intended bands and arms to look
like that than she intended a prize ]pig to be so
heavy that his legs will not support his weight.
Women ought to be able to use their limbs freely.

And if ever you meet a beautiful girl with strong
wrists in whom you feel an interest, take my advice
and buy her a gazelle — or if you can't get a
gazelle, perhaps a billy-goat might do. Encourage
the beast to charge at her, and teach her to catch
him neatly by the horns when he is going full
tilt. Of course he will bowl her over as clean asa
whistle at first, but she mustn't mind that.
Once she has acquired the knack of seizing him
at the right moment, she will find the result will
be worth any bruises he may have given her in
teaching her the lesson; and it will be worth ten
times the money you have paid for him to see the
picture the girl will make as she holds the struggling
brute in a perfectly firm grasp, but without
any unbecoming exertion.'

CHAPTER Yin.

MADAi^fE DE TREMOXVILLE AT HOME.

The grave, silent Arabs, who, with their lon^r
strings of camels, leave Algiers by the Bab-Azoun.
and, following the curve of the bay, set their faces
in a south-easterly direction ; the sturdy Kabyles,
trudging towards their native mountains, with
money, well earned by a month or so of hard
labour in the town, in their purses ; the farmers
and butchers, on their way to the great weekly
cattle-market at Boufiarik ; the strangers, whose
guide-books command them to \dsit Bhdah and
the far-famed Gorge of the Cliffs — all these,
before they have well accomplished three miles of
their join-ney, pass, on their left hand, a pleasant,
shady domain, where avenues of palm and j^lane
and eucalyptus, parterres gay with many-tinted
flowers, and cool, dark vistas, at the edge of which
a glint of foam shows where the breakers meet the
shore, might tempt the wayfarer to time aside out

of the heat and dust, and rest awhile, if the
exigencies of business permitted of such delay.
This property, which bears the modest title of the
'Jardin essai,' was set aside by the French
Government, shortly after the conquest of Algiers,
for the establishment of a great nursery-garden,
and for the acclimatisation of tropical plants. It
lias answered its purpose well ; and at the present
time it is not only a boon to colonists, but a
charming, cool retreat, where lazy people can
dream away an hour or two in that contentment
of idleness which can only be enjoyed in its perfection
under southern skies.

Thither wandered M. de Saint-Luc, on a warm,
still afternoon ; and seating himself at the end of
one of the alleys, fell, as of late it had become
habitual to him to do, into a melancholy reverie.
From the point at which he had taken up his
position the shore took an inward sweep, so that
a broad stretch of blue and glittering sea intervened
between him and the town of Algiers, which
rose abruptly from the water, white and dazzling,
like a city of marble, against its green background.

Saint-Luc surveyed the prospect with a sigh.
His thoughts reverted to the time — infinitely
remote, as it now seemed — when, as a gay young

Chasseur d'Afriqiie, without much money to spend,
but with a fine stock of health and animal spirits,
he had fought in Kabyha under old Marshal
Wanton, and when, the campaign being ended, he
had been ordered to Algiers with his regiment,
and had come in sight of the town on just such a
fine afternoon as this. There had been a good
deal of laughing and joking between him and his
brother officers, he remembered — much mutual
congratulation upon their safe return to civilised
luxuries ; and it had been agreed that they were
to treat themselves that evening to the best dinner
that Algiers could produce, and to go to the
theatre afterwards. But he had not gone to
either dinner or theatre ; for, on his arrival, a
letter had been handed to him which briefly
announced that his old father was dead, and had
left him a rich man.

It was my last day of happiness,' sighed Saint-luc,
forgetful of the commencement of his Parisian
career, which had been merry enough until satiety
had robbed it of its charm. ' When I sailed for
France, I left my youth behind . me, and never
knew what I had lost till it was far past retrieving.
Ah! if I had met her then! Or if I could be
young now ! ' How many years was it since Saint-vol.

I. N

Luc and his comrades had ridden gallantly home
from the hill country of the discomfited Kabyles ?
How many years ? And how much had they
held that a man could look back upon with any
kind of comfort or pride ? Once he had broken
his right arm in a steeple-chase at La Marche, and
had scrambled on to his horse again and won the
]race, amidst roars of applause ; once he had broken
the bank at Baden ; and once he had disarmed the
famous Due de Beaumont St.-Hilaire in a duel.
These were his triumphs; and time had been
Avhen he had contemplated them with some self-approval.
In his present mood, he recalled them
with profound disgust. Such feats might command
the homage of a Madame de Tremonville ;
but with Jeanne, as lie knew, they were not likely
to count for much.

She despises me,' he thought ; * and parbleu !
I am inclined to share in her sentiments. If she
felt any admiration for me, it is I who should
despise her. What right have I to expect that
she, in her proud purity, should stoop to marry a
half-ruined spendthrift ? The wisest thing I could
.do would be to take myself off back to France —
only that is no longer possible. I must wait on,
and take my dismissal from her own lips. It

will not kill me — but I wish I had illusions enough
left to be able to believe that it would ! '

The sound of approaching wheels interrupted
his dismal self-communing, and at the same
moment he heard himself called by name.

Leon de Mersac, driving a low pony-carriage,
had pulled up a few yards from the dreamer, and
was contemplating him in undisguised astonishment.


You here ! ' he exclaimed. ' What in the
world are you doincr in the Jardin essai, all bv
yourself?'

I am doing nothing,' answered Saint-Luc,
getting up. ' It is the habit of the country, is it
not ? '

It is not my habit,' said Leon ; ' I have
always plenty to do — too much even. For instance,
I ought to be at the market at BoujQTarik
to-day ; instead of which, I have to go and cal
upon Madame de Tremonville. Will you come ?

I would rather send my card by you.'

Leon shook his head. ' She would not like
that. She always expects her friends to call ui
person.'

Am I one of her friends ? I did not know it,'
said Saint-Luc ; ' but if I must go, I may as well

N 2

go with you. And by-the-by, Leon,' he added,
as he seated himself in the pony-carriage, ' I was
thinking of saying a word or two to you about
that lady, if you will not think it too great a
liberty.'

Say what you please. I shall think nothing
a liberty that comes from you,' answered Leon,
politely.

I am going to make you angry, nevertheless.
Well, you must try to forgive me. Do you know
that this good Madame de Tremonville is amusing
herself by trying to make a fool of you ? '

No,' answered Leon, decidedly ; ' I do not
know it. You misunderstand her ; and I am not
surprised at your doing so, for she is fond of
admiration, like all women who are young and
pretty ; but she is not a coquette. If you were as
well acquainted with her as I am, you would have
no feeling towards her but one of the deepest
compassion ; for, though perhaps you might not
suppose it from seeing her in public, she is very
unhappy.'

So those perennial smiles, and that charming
flow of animation, only disguise an aching heart.
How sad ! '

It is easy to sneer,' returned Leon ; ' but

what would you have her do ? Would you prefer
that she should go about moaning, and depress
everybody by showing a dismal face ? '

Certainly not. I was only admiring the fortitude
-sdth which she bears the neglect of an
unsympathetic husband — for that, I presume, is
the affliction she suffers from.'

How did you guess that ? ' exclaimed Leon,
quite astonished at this striking proof of Saint-luc's
penetration. 'But, to be sure, anybody
might see how ill-suited to her that dull, vulgar
old man is. They have not a thought nor a taste
in common ; and he treats her with the most ostentatious
indifference. Sometimes, when she
speaks of him, she cannot restrain her tears.'

And you dry them for her ? Allons, allons
my friend ; you are accepting a part in a very old
comedy. It is one that I have played more than
once myself, and I know it by heart. If my own
past life gave me the right to offer counsel to a
young man, I should recommend you to decline
such a role, though it involves little risk, except
that of exhibiting yourself in a somewhat ridiculous
aspect to your friends, so long as you remember
that you are merely acting. But if you
take it into your head to be in earnest over the

affair, the case is different, and you may incur a
good deal of needless unhappiness. Whatever
you do, don't take Madame de Tremonville
seriously. Believe me, she is not worth it, and
does not expect it. Amuse yourself with her, if
you must ; but don't put faith in all she says ;
above all, don't be absurd enough to fall in love
with her. Formerly there were two classes of
Avoient — devotes and women of the world : one
knew what to expect of each of them, and suited
one's conduct towards them accordingly ; but in
these days a third class has sprung up, and is
becoming more numerous than either of the others *
a class of women who are worldly without being
witty ; whose religion, of which they make a conspicuous
display, is nothing but a superstition ;
Who are mostly very ignorant, who have no merit,
except that of dressing well, and no passions but
vanity and a certain mean ambition. It is a mass
of such charming creatures that forms the upper
layer of fashionable society in France, under his
Majesty Napoleon III., whom Heaven preserve !
There are exceptions here and there, of course,
but I am much mistaken if your Madame de Grenville
is one of them.'

You are a man of the world,' said Leon, ' and

naturally know more of the state of society at large
than I can pretend to do. Also, like most men of
the world, you have a habit of generalising which
is apt to lead you into errors with regard to individuals.
You are altogether wrong, for instance,
in your judgment of Madame de Tremonville, who
is neither ignorant, nor vain, nor irreligious. But
you can discover her true character for yourself, if
you care to take the trouble : I have no particular
wish to influence your opinion.'

As you please. Let us admit her to be an
angel. I still don't see what good result you propose
to gain by making love to her.'

I propose nothing, and I am not making love
to her,' answered Leon, flicking the near pony
impatiently with his whip. 'And, With yom*
permission, I should prefer to change the subject.'


I told you I should make you angry,' remarked
Saint-Luc, as the carriage turned in at Madame de
Tremonville's gates.

I am not in the least angry,' returned Leon ;
but I see no use in discussing a state of affairs
which does not exist — that is all.'

And so he pulled up at the door of the villa ;
and Saint-Luc, with the conviction, common to

most wise counsellors, that he might as well have
held his tongue, got out and rang the bell.

The visitors were at once admitted into the
presence of the lady of the house, whom they
found sitting on a footstool, surrounded by officers
in staff-uniforms, all of whom were busily engaged
in tearing up newspapers into small scraps.

Ah messieurs ! you arrive a propos,' she
cried. ' You shall take part in our chasse, M.
de Saint-Luc, you, no doubt, are already acquainted
with the rules of the game. A bag full of paper
is given to one of the party, who represents the
hare, and who starts in any direction he pleases,
scattering the paper behind him. The rest, who
act as hounds, follow, after the interval of a
minute, upon his track, and the chase continues
till the hare is caught, or the scent exhausted.
The hare, if he is captured, pays fifty francs into
the box which you see, for the benefit of the poor ;
if, on the other hand, he escape, each of the
hounds must contribute twenty francs to the same
object. There is also a fine of twenty francs for
any hound who leaves the scent, or gives up the
pursuit.'

In this manner Madame de Tremonville combined
amusement with benevolence. It has

already been said that she was not averse to such
forms of romping as she conceived to be sanctioned
by the decrees of fashion ; and this notion
of a paper-chase, wafted to her by some echo
from Compiegne, had taken her fancy as well as
that of her admirers. ' It will be no novelty to
you, monsieur,' she continued, addressing Saint-luc
; ' but you will hardly expect to meet with
novelty in our barbarous colony. It is something
to do — one runs about and one laughs —
voila ! '

It struck Saint-Luc as possible that one might
sit still and laugh, or even sit still without laughing;
either of which alternatives he would have
preferred to the one suggested to him ; but he
was not so ungracious as to give utterance to his
sentiments, and began to tear up paper with porte
resignation.

Will not you sing us something, madame,
while we prepare the scent ? ' asked one of the
officers ; and Madame de Tremonville consented,
without waiting to be pressed . She seated herself
at the piano, and sang, with a good deal of spirit,
a ballad, the words of which were hardly open to
objection, though there was something in the
manner of their delivery which the performer

mentally qualified as ' cliic^' aud her audience as
risque.'

The officers glanced at one another and smiled
furtively ; Saint-Luc preserved a countenance of
blank impossibility ; but Leon, mindful of the
conversation which had occupied his drive from
the Jardin essai, reddened and frowned.

Madame de Tremonville was not slow to detect
these signs of displeasure. ' Look at M. de Mer-sac
! ' she cried. ' He is actually blushing for me.
And yet I had chosen the most innocent song in
my repertoire out of special deference to his
prejudices. M. le Marquis has lately become of
a simplicity quite Arcadian. I think even that
his thoughts wander sometimes to some shepherdess
or other — is it not so, monsieur ? Ah !
you blush still more. I would stake my diamond
ring against the straw hat whose brim you are
trying to pull off, that you are in love.'

Then you would lose your ring, madame. I
beg to assure you that I am not in the very least
in love with any human creature.'

Madame de Tremonville laughed. ' You speak
with such emphasis that we must believe you,*
she said ; ' but you need not be angry. It is no

Mademoiselle DE MERSAC. 187

disgrace to be in love ; is it M. che Longueilil ?
You ought to know.'

I hope not ; I know it is a misfortune,' replied
the officer addressed, sith a languishing
look at his hostess.

'M. de Longueilil is always in love, and is
always success — at least, so he says,' continued
the lady. 'Ah! these beaux sabreursl who can
withstand them? Since his Mexican campaign,
M. de Longueilil has been irresistible.'

The young man, who in truth had been invaded
home almost immediately after his landing
in Mexico, and had had to put up with some good-humoured
raillery from his comrades on the subject,
winced perceptibly under this unexpected
attack, to the great joy of his assailant. She
liked to say occasional sharp things to her adorers.
to hurt their feelings, and set them against one
another. It was her way of paying them out for
the free-and-easy fashion in-which they usually
treated her ; and she was the more able to indulge
her taste, inasmuch as she was perfectly
well aware that she could at any moment, with a
slight effort, disperse the clouds which her remarks
might have called up. She soon found

means to restore M. de Longueilil to good humour ;
and, seeing that Leon still sat, silent and sulky,
by himself, she took an opportunity to cross the
room to him, and whisper confidentially, ' They
are so scandalous — they had remarked that you
were constantly here. I was obliged to say something
to divert their suspicions.'

Whereupon that infatuated youth immediately
recovered his spirits, and joined in the general
entreaty that the paper-chase might now be
allowed to begin.

Lots were drawn to decide who should first
act as hare, and the lot fell upon M. de Longueilil.
He took up his bag and started at once through
the open door, and they heard his footsteps dying
away on the gravel outside, while Madame de
Tremonville, watch in hand, awaited the expiration
of the stipulated minute. Then, time being
up, the whole party set out in hot pursuit, keeping
scrupulously to the scent, and imitating, with
indifferent success, the baying of a pack in full
cry. Out into the blazing sunshine they rushed,
helter-skelter, down the slope of the garden,
through a hedge of aloes, into a narrow shady
lane, still paved with the slabs which the Romans
had left there in the days of Julius Caesar ; then

up the hill again, panting and laughing, across
a meadow, through another hedge or two, over a
low wall, into the chinks of which the affrighted
lizards darted, and so back to their starting-point.
Madame de Tremonville kept the lead with Leon
at her elbow ; the others were close behind ; and
far in the rear Saint-Luc, who had no special aptitude
for playing the fool, trotted resignedly,
emitting from time to time, as in duty bound, a
brief, mournful bark. The hare was now in sio-ht,
and, confident in his powers of outstripping his
pursuers, began to amuse himself by doubling,
passing within a foot or two of the distressed pack,
and stimulating their ardour with sundry insulting
jeers. But his triumph was short. Looking over
his shoulder to fling back a derisive shout, he
stumbled on the edge of a flower-bed, and, failing
prone into a cluster of rose-bushes, was ignominiously
captured by Madame de Tremonville, to
whom he ruefully handed over his fine of fifty
francs.

Fate now selected as victim M. de Saint-Luc,
who promptly offered to pay fine in default ; but
this proposition being received with marked disfavour,
he was fain to accept the bag of paper
handed to him ; his disgust being somewhat mitigated

by the permission accorded to this request
that he might, if he so pleased, confine his progress
to the house. For he thought, ' So long as
I remain within four walls, I shall at least escape
the risk of sunstroke, and, what is more important,
I shall be in no danger of being seen in this very
ridiculous position by any chance acquaintance
who may be passing in the neighbourhood.'

He left behind him, therefore, a tortuous
track, leading now into one room, now into another,
out into the verandah and back again, and
finally up the staircase. It was not until he had
darted in and out of M. de Tremonville^s dressing-room,
and was becoming hard pressed by the
hounds, who, with shouts of laughter, were
following closely upon his heels, that a happy
inspiration occurred to him. Why should he not
escape from the house, run down to the high road,
beyond which nobody would be likely to follow
him, and so slip quietly down home? Full of
this idea, he dashed down the stairs, three steps
at the time, flung open the iron door, and —
plunged headlong into the arms of Madame do
Vaublanc, who, in her very best clothes, was
coming to pay a visit of ceremony after the
ball.

^ Mais, monsieur r shrieked that astonished
lady, reeling back and involuntarily ringing a
tremendous peal with the bell-handle which she
had grasped for support.

Saint' Luc felt it to be rather hard luck that
Madame de Vaublanc should have chosen that
day of all others for paying her respects at the
Villa de Tremonville ; but it was worse that she
should have brought Mademoiselle de Mersac with
her ; and what was worst of all was, that his
lively hostess, unconscious of the appearance of
any fresh personages upon the scene, must needs
bounce out through the half-open door, and fling
her arms round him with a cry of triumph. Leon,
who, as usual, was following close upon her heels,
opened his mouth to re-echo the shout, but shut
it again abruptly when he became aware of his
sister's calm brown eyes fixed upon him in wondering
interrogation. The rest of the pack, having
had time to perceive the state of affairs, quietly
and discreetly vanished.

There was a brief, uncomfortable pause, during
which the five persons who stood face to face in
the full light of the sinking sun, contemplated one
another with varied feelings. Leon looked, as he
felt, very much like a schoolboy caught out of

bounds ; Madame de Tremonville, for once in her
life, was a little disconcerted ; Saint-Luc leant
against the wall, with folded arms, the picture of
calm despair ; and Jeanne, remembering the
promise she had extorted from this unfortunate
delinquent, was at no pains to hide the disgust
and contempt with which his duplicity filled her.
Only Madame de Vaublanc, scrutinising the flushed
cheeks and disordered hair of her enemy, smiled
with grim satisfaction, and sang an inward paean
at the shrine of Nemesis the Just.

An orgy, mesdames — a veritable orgy ! ' she
hissed, describing the scene subsequently to an
eager circle of listeners. ' If you had seen her,
with her hair down her back and her eyes blazing,
clutch M. de Saint-Luc round the neck, you would
have thought, as I declare I did for a moment,
that she had gone out of her mind. The poor
Vicomte,who did not appear to enjoy his position,
fumbled in his pocket and handed her two or
three napoleons. It was to save himself from
some penalty, I presume — though what worse
punishment he could have feared than being embraced
by that woman, I do not pretend to say.
You will easily believe that I declined to enter
the house, though she recovered herself, after a

minute, and begged us to do so, suggesting even,
in the insolent manner that you know of, that we
should join in the game we had interrupted.
Many thanks, madame," said I ; '' but, from what
I have seen of your game, it seems to me to be
one fitted neither for old women nor for young
girls ! " And with that I took my leave. The
two gentlemen followed immediately, and caught
us up before we were out of the avenue. I was
glad to see that they both looked very much
ashamed of themselves.'

Ashamed of themselves they undoubtedly
were, but in very different degrees of intensity.
Leon's humiliation was lessened by a strong admixture
of that odd pride which youths of all
nations would appear to take in publicly exposing
their idiocy where a pretty woman is concerned ;
whereas that of Saint Luc contained no consoling
element whatever, and was the more bitter because
he felt it to be wholly undeserved.

It was in the hope of exculpating himself in
some degree, that he hurried after Madame de
Vaublanc and Jeanne.

You are taking the wrong tiu-king, M. de
Saint-Luc,' said the latter lady. ' Our road leads
directly away from the town.'
VOL. I. o

I am going to make my way back by El
Biar and the Frais Vallon he explained. ' It is
a much prettier walk.'

To this Jeanne vouchsafed no rejoinder; and,
somehow or other, Saint-Luc found himself presently
walking beside slow-paced Madame de
V^aublanc, while the two tall figures of Mademoiselle
de Mersac and her brother were drawing
rapidly away in front. It is highly improbable
hat he would have got speech of Jeanne again
that day, if the old lady at his side had not happened
to be cognisant of the Duchess's wishes
with respect to him, and a staunch supporter of
them. As it was, she soon gave him his opportunity.


Stop, my children, stop ! ' she cried, when
they reached the entrance of a narrow stony lane ;
let us take the short cut.'

'You will find it rough walking, madame,'
said Jeanne, doubtfully.

Eh, mon Dieu ! I prefer spoiling my boots to
making a circuit of two miles. M. le Marquis
will kindly lend me the support of his arm, I have
no doubt.'

And so, the path being too narrow to admit
of more than two persons walking abreast, Jeanne

had to fall back, and accept Saint-Luc's society,
whether she liked it or not. Silently they scrambled
over the rocks and boulders, Saint-Luc offerings
an assisting hand from time to time, and beinir
as often politely but firmly waved aside. At
length he stopped short, and faced his companion.

Mademoiselle,' said he.

Monsieur

are angry with me.'

I assure you I was not thinking about you.'

She looked down upon him from the rocky
ledge upon which she was standing. A tangled
growth of cactus and myrtle and asphodel, overspread
with festoons of the pale green clematis,
rose behind her, and from between the silvery
leaves of the olive-tree over her head rays of sunlight
streamed down and made moving patterns
of light and shade upon her white dress. Her
beautiful lips were curved into a smile of innocent
candour, into which a touch of perfect disdain had
somehow found its way. It was not the least
strange feature in Saint-Luc's infatuation that the
small stabs which Jeanne was always inflicting
upon him never angered, but only hurt him. In
the old Paris days he had not borne the reputation
of a man easily snubbed, and had never

failed to hold his own against any man or woman
who had shown a disposition to attack him ; but
he had no retort ready now, and had no wish to
seek for one. He resumed, quite humbly, 'I
ought perhaps to have said that, as far as appearances
go, you have reason to be angry with me.
T promised, you know, to try and keep your
brother away from Madame de Tremonville, and
in truth I have done what I could. I was speaking
to him about her this very afternoon, and my
visit to her was meant to be as much one of ceremony
as your own. I certainly should not have
gone, if I had had any idea that I should be forced
into playing that ridiculous game.'

Why should you not play any game that you
find amusing ? ' returned Jeanne, indifferently.
It was foolish in me to speak to you about Leon
and Madame de Tremonville at all. Will you
please forget that I ever said anything upon the
subject ? '

Just as you please, mademoiselle ; but why
do you say that your speaking to me was foolish ? '

I will say useless, if you prefer it. Pray let
us talk no more about it.'

Saint-Luc was silent for a few minutes ; then
he broke out abruptly — ' Why do you mistrust me

SO, mademoiselle? I could not prevent your
brother from calling upon Madame de Tremonville
this afternoon. I told him what I thought of her,
and advised him to drop her acquaintance. What
more could I, or anyone, do ? I have been unfortunate
enough to inciu: yom' dislike : I have
seen that for some time, and have no right to
complain of it ; but at least I have never given
you any reason to suppose that I do not tell the
truth. What makes you think so ill of me ? '

Jeanne had resumed her march ; but she faced
about upon this challenge. ' It is not that I dislike
or distrust you, M. de Saint-Luc,' she said ;
and I don't think that you mean unkindly towards
Leon ; but sometimes I feel afraid for him — he
has changed so much of late. After wdiat you
have said. I am sure that you have done your best
to warn him, though I confess I did not think so
just now. But I suppose the truth is, that Leon
has reached an age at which warnings are not of
much service. He is at an age, too, when young
men generally imitate those about them.'

I understand. And I am not an example to
be imitated. You are perfectly right, mademoiselle
; no one could have wasted his Hfe more
hopelessly than I have done ; also no one could

be more conscious of this worthlessness than I am.
At the same time, I don't think your brother has
learnt much harm from me since I have been
here. The only bad habit of any sort or kind
that he has seen me indulge in is occasional gambling
; and if you wish it, I will gladly promise
you now never to touch a card again so long as I
am in Algiers.'

No, no ! ' she interrupted, hastily ; ' let us
have no promises. Who knows whether it would
be possible to keep them ? I cannot expect you
to change all your habits to suit my convenience ;
and, indeed, I should not wish it. We will try to
be better friends for the future,' she added, extending
her hand to him frankly.

He took it, held it in his own for a second,
and then let it fall. It was probably the very
first time in his life that he had allowed a woman's
hand to escape from his possession without a
pressure.

You know that the will is not Avantiiig on my
part,' he answered, in a low voice.

Her brow clouded, but cleared again almost
at once, and she looked at him not unkindly.

I wish ' she began, and then broke off.

And Saint-Luc never knew in what manner

she had intended to finish her sentence; for at
that moment Madame de Vaublanc's shrill voice
was heard calling, '- Jeanne, make haste ! you will
keep Madame la Duchesse waiting for dinner.'
And so the colloquy came to an end

CHAPTER IX.

GRANDE KABYLIE.

In selecting for narration a ]portion ont of the
lives of certain people, and endeavouring to interest
others therein, the veracious historian is apt,
ere long, to find himself hemmed in between two
difficulties. For whereas if, upon the one hand,
he attempt to follow the subjects of his story
through those uneventful scenes in which, generally
speaking, their desires, their characters, and
their destinies slowly develop themselves, he is in
danger of becoming tedious to his readers, it is
certain, upon the other, that if he pass over such
periods in silence, he must risk the charge of inconsequence.
The former peril appearing, all
things considered, the more formidable of the two,
it seems wisest to the present chronicler to dismiss
in as few sentences as may be all account of the
months of April and May, 1870 — precisely the
two months, as it happens, of which the person-acres

with whom he is concerned have since ceo



claret that they cherish a keener, fonder memory
than of any other period of then' career.

The fact is, that nothing whatever took place
during these two months but what might have
been anticipated from the outset. Barrington
finished his picture, began a second one, and
established himself upon a footing of complete
intimacy at the Campagne de Mersac ; Leon went
on flirting foolishly with Madame de Tremonville ;
Saint-Luc, though more at his ease with Jeanne,
and more kindly received by her after the conversation
recorded in the last chapter, made but little
advance towards the fulfilment of his hopes ; the
Duchess and M. de Fontvieille continued their
abortive support of the luckless suitor ; and old
Time plodded on in his dogged, relentless way,
bringing all of them nearer and nearer to the
inevitable end. Here is an extract from Barrington's
correspondence — the last with which the
reader shall be troubled — whence the results of
eight weeks of glorious weather, combined with
lamentable supineness on the part of those who
should have been able to exercise some control
over the march of events, may be succinctly
gleaned.

Your last letter tickled me immensely. That
you should claim credit for penetration in having
discovered the very thing that I have been laboriously
striving for some time past to make clear to
you, is such a good joke that I am sure you will
never see the point of it. " Mark my words,"
you observe in that pithy and sagacious style
which is all your own, " you are falling in love
with that Mademoiselle Thingummy; and if I
don't see you home before the Derby is run, I
shall look upon your case as a hopeless one ! "
I had been laughing at your letter from the commencement
; but when I reached that sentence,
I positively roared. Why, my dear, good soul, of
course I am in love with Mademoiselle de Mersac
(of whom, by the way, I will thank you not to
speak as " Mademoiselle Thingummy " again).
The indisputable fact that nobody could be as
much in her society as I have been without falling
in love with her, is one With which you cannot be
expected to be acquainted ; but if you haven't
Imrnt my previous letters, and will refer back to
them, you will surely admit that I have never
drawn the thinnest veil over my attachment — or
at least, if I have (for I don't exactly remember
all I may have said), it has been one that any fool

might have seen through. Heavens and earth !
what is it that makes people tally of love as though
there were something ridiculous in it — something
to be ashamed of? Is it ignorance, or folly, or
envy? Ignorance it cannot be, for everybody
must have been in love at least once ; in your case,
I should imagine it to be a mixture of the two
latter causes. Come, old fellow, you and I have
been friends ever since we wore jackets and turn-down
collars, and played fives against the chapel-wall
on Saturday afternoons, because we were too
small to be allowed possession of one of the fives-courts
; we have wintered one another and summered
one another, and I have a right to put any
question I please to you, and to expect a truthful
reply. Divest yourself for a few minutes of your
twopenny-halfpenny cynicism, and tell me honestly
Wouldn't you give a year's income to be in
love yourself? Wouldn't your heart leap with
joy if you could feel again the delicious tremors,
the exquisite joys, the doubts, the fears, the hopes
of bygone days ? Wouldn't you, if you could,
choose to live again, in a queer, delightful, glorified
world, inhabited, for all practical purposes,
by one person only besides yourself? Wouldn't
you, on the approach of that person, like to

experience a certain odd spasm, half painful,
half delightful, somewhere about the middle of
your waistcoat ? — it is a physical sensation, and
you know it as well as I do, if your memory is
not growing feeble. Ah, my dear old boy, there's
nothing half so sweet in life as love's young
dream ! Love's middle-aged dream is a very
close imitation of it — expert crete Oh, talk
not to me of a name great in story ! What are
honours and wealth and gratified ambition in
comparison with this divine ecstasy? It is a
disease, you will grunt. I don't say no ; but it is
sent straight from heaven.

Oh, Fame, if I e'er took delight in thy praises,
'Twas less for the sake of thy high-sounding phrases
Than to see the bright eyes of the dear one discover
She thought that I was not unworthy to love her.

You will perhaps pardon my bursting into poetry ;
it is a trick incidental to my condition. I see you
reading this in your arm-chair at the club, doubled
up with merriment, your long nose almost touching
your chin, as it does in moments when you
are enjoying a fancied superiority over one of
your fellow-creatures. My dear fellow, you are
most heartily welcome to your joke. Your correspondence

is often so irresistibly comical to me,
that it would be hard indeed if I were to urudore
YOU an occasional chuckle ; and in the present
instance I can't help thinking that I have the best
of the laugh.

Yes, I am in love with Jeanne de Mersac :
and I rejoice in being so ! Your sage and trite
warnings against what you are pleased to term a
romantic marriage with a foreigner," and your
doubts as to how a Frenchwoman and a Catholic
would be received by the society of Surrey, are
altogether irrelevant to the subject, and I am not
going to discuss their soundness. The notion
that love and marriage are inseparably connected,
and that the one is invariably and necessarily a
prelude to the other, always seems to me to arise
out of a certain vulgarity of mind. You, who
are nothing if not conventional, probably hold a
different opinion ; but really, if you will think fora
moment of the refining, ennobling influence of
love — of how it takes us out of ourselves and
raises us above the level of this commonplace,
sordid world ; and if you will then consider the
perfectly earthly character of marriage, with its
dull respectability and tedious monotony —
you will perceive the bathos of degrading the

former into a mere stepping-stone towards the
latter.

Each ! des Leben schonste Fever
Endigt such den Lebensmai,
Mit dem Giirtel, mit dem Schemer
Eeiszt der shone Wain entzwei !

I don't, of course, mean to assert that a man
should not marry the woman he loves, or even
that matters may not end that way in my own
case; I simply say that love is enough. I decline
to be worried with remote contingencies.
I fall down and worship at the feet of this beautiful
goddess ; I bask in the sunshine of her smiles,
and I am content. I don't know, and don't want
to know, towards what rocks and shoals I may be
drifting. I have not even the slightest clue as to
the state of her feelings towards myself I know
that she likes me, but more than that I cannot
say. Sometimes I get a look or a word which
makes me tremble with hope ; sometimes I am
greeted with the most discouraging friendliness.
I accept it all with such equanimity as I can
muster ; and am thankful that at least I am spared
the pangs of jealousy ; for my one rival (that
Saint-Luc of whom I have already written to you)
is scarcely formidable. I pity that poor devil.

I don't like him, as I think I have said before,
but I am genuinely sorry for him. He is a man
with whom you would find yourself in complete
sympathy, for his love is of that uncompromising
kind which leads direct to the Mairie and the
altar, and will be satisfied with nothing less.
Humility appears to. be his idea of courtship. In
Jeanne's presence he is silent, and rather awkward.
He gazes at her with great eyes of despair, he
agrees with every word that she utters, and he
sends her bouquets three or four times a week.
Bouquets ! That of itself is sufficient to stamp
the man, and to show how little he understands
the lady whose affections he hopes to captivate.
Cut flowers, if you like — though she has more
roses in her own garden than she knows what todo
with ; but bouquets — stiff, accurate bouquets
arranged by means of wires and surrounded by
a border of perforated paper — to her ! But what
can you expect of a man who says, " Mademoiselle,
permit me to congratulate you upon your
exquisite toilette ! " or, " Mademoiselle, allow me
to offer you my compliments upon your charming
coiffure ! " and then imagines that he has made
himself agreeable ? I think she would hate him,
but for her goodness and generosity. I can't

believe that anything would ever induce her to
become his wife, though all her friends and relations
favour the match, and make no secret of
their wishes.

It is not likely that you will see me at the
Derby this year. I don't care a brass farthing
what wins, and shall not take advantage of your
tip about Macgregor. The life which I am now
leading — and which entirely satisfies my soul —
has interests independent of horse-racing ; and,
indeed, of the world (in your sense of the word)
altogether. I very seldom glance at a newspaper.
I haven't the faintest idea of what is taking place
in the Parliament of Great Britain ; it is as much
as I can do to get up a feeble excitement over
the Emperor's plebiscite, which is making a great
stir in this rather Radical community. You ask
how I manage to kill time, and whether I have
had any sport. Well, I have shot a wild boar
and an eagle and an old Kabyle woman whom I
peppered about the legs in mistake for a quail,
and who raised no end of hullabaloo, refusing to
be pacified at any less price than a hundred
francs ; but the fact is, I don't care about going
very far away from the town. I have always
plenty to do ; and, whether it is the delicious

climate, or whether it is the result of my mental
condition, I can't say, but I am always in the best
of health and spirits. I begin to whistle quite
nati-ally as soon as I wake in the morning. I getup
and have a bathe in the sea ; then I come home
to breakfast ; then 1 paint a little ; and then I
pretty generally ride up to El Biar, where the De
Mersacs live. There is often a dance somewhere
in the evening. Failing that, I play a game or
two of billiards with one or other of the young
French officers quartered here — not half bad
fellows, by the way — or else I climb up the narrow
streets of the old town and get a peep at
some weird Moorish ceremony or fete. I have
no plans at present, and have no wish to form
any. It is possible that 1 may be at home for
Ascot, but it is not probable. I suppose the heat
will drive me north eventually ; but, as far as I
can see, there will be no necessity for a move on
that score for some time to come ; and I don't see
why I should pack up before I am obliged. The
London season has no temptations for me. Indeed,
setting aside all personal feeling in the matter, I
am convinced that Algiers is an infinitely more
agreeable place of residence in the month of May
than London.'

VOL. I. P

Here we may take leave of Mr. Barrington's
rather long-winded narrative. The impression
produced by it upon the mind of its recipient was
one which may very possibly be shared in by the
reader. ' Just like Barrington ! ' he muttered, ashe
restored the bulky epistle to its envelope.
For a man who goes in for philanthropy and
that kind of thing, I must say he is about the
most selfish beggar out. Making love is very
good fun, as everybody knows ; but, hang it all !
if a man don't mean anything by it, it's deuced
hard lines on the girl.'

Mademoiselle de Mersac would have been
very much astonished if this expression of opinion
could have reached her ears. That her peace of
mind was likely to become in any way endangered
through the proximity of Mr. Barrington
was a notion which certainly had not as yet suggested
itself to her. She had liked him from the
outset ; he belonged to a different species from
that of the men Who lead hitherto come in her
way ; she fancied, rightly or wrongly, that he was
more honest and manly than they ; and, as she
grew to know him better, her liking for him increased,
till his visits became almost a necessary
part of her daily life. She knew also, of course,

that he admired her. But flora admiration, or
liking, to love is a long step, and Jeanne did not
choose to think that Mr. Barrington had taken it
much less that she could have done so herself.

So, as the Duchess had a happy faculty of
disbelieving in inconvenient potentialities ; as M.
de Fontvieille found it wisest, as a general thing,
to hold the same opinions as the Duchess ; as
Leon was too much occupied with his own concerns
to keep a watchful eye upon those of-his
sister ; and, as Saint-Luc had no powder to speak
a warning word, it came to pass that Barrington
arrived at the Campagne de Mersac every day as
regularly as the post, and that poor M. de Saint-luc,
who never ventured to present himself more
than twice in the course of a week, invariably
found his rival installed in the drawing-room when
he was announced, and was not unfrequently
made to feel that his entrance had interrupted a
pleasant conversation.

In the first days of June, when the Hotel
orient and the Hotel de la Defence had bidden
adieu to the last of their winter guests ; when the
Governor-general had migrated from the town to
his fairy-like palace on the leafy heights of 
; when the smaller fry of officials were, in

imitation of him and in preparation for the hot
season, transplanting themselves and their families
to the coolest attainable villas ; when the aloes
were in flower and the air was full of a hundred
faint scents, and the corn and barley fields were
very nearly ripe for the sickle — at the time of
year, in short, Avhen the luxuriant life and rich
beauty of Algeria were at their climax — it occurred
to L^on that it would be a good thing to
make a journey into Kabylia. For in the grassy
plains of that region, near the first spurs of the
great Djurdjura range, dwelt one Senior Lopez, a
Spanish colonist and a breeder of horses, who was
generally open to a deal, and who, at this particular
time, had a nice lot of foals on hand, out
of some of which a discriminating 3^oung man
might see his way to make honest profit. But as
few people, be they never so self-confident, like
to rely upon their own judgment alone in so delicate
a matter as the purchase of a foal, Leon conceived
it to be a siiie qua non that his sister
should accompany him. And then M. de Saint-luc,
hearing of the projected expedition, must
needs declare that he could not possibly leave
Algeria without revisiting the scene of his former
campaigns, and that the opportunity of doing so in

congenial society was one that he would not miss
for any imaginable consideration. After which,
oddly enough, Mr. Barrington, too, found out that
to make acquaintance with the mountain scenery
of Kabyha had always been one of his fondest
dreams, and added — wliy not push on a little farther,
and see some of the hill-villages and the
famous Fort Napoleon ?

Neither Leon nor Jeanne offered any objection
to this plan ; but when it was communicated to
the Duchess, she held up her hands in horror and
amazement.

And your chaperon, mademoiselle ? ' she
ejaculated. And the truth is that both the young
folks had overlooked this necessary addition to
their party.

Now, as the Duchess herself would no more
have thought of undertaking a weary drive of
three or four days' duration over stony places
than of ordering a fiery chariot to drive her
straight to heaven, and as no other available lady
of advanced years could be discovered, it seemed,
for a time, as if either Mademoiselle de Mersac or
her two admirers would have to remain in Algiers
; but at the last moment a deus ex machine
was found in the person of M. de Fontvieille, who

announced his willingness to join the party, and
who, as Leon politely remarked, when he was out
of ear-shot, was, to all intents and purposes, as
good as any old woman.

Poor old M. de Fontvieille ! Nobody thanked
him for what was an act of pure good-nature and
self-sacrifice — nobody, at least, except Jeanne,
who, by way of testifying her gratitude, spent a
long morning with him, examining his collection
of gems and listening to the oft-told tale of their
several acquisitions, and, at the end, presented
him with an exquisite Marshal Noel rose-bud for
his button-hole.

Ah, mademoiselle,' said he, as he pinned the
flower into his coat, ' you do well to reserve your
roses for old men, who appreciate such gifts at
their right value. Give none to the young fellows
; it would only increase their vanity, which
is great enough already.'

I never give roses to anybody,' said Jeanne.

So much the better. Continue, my child, to
observe that wise rule. And remember that if
the Lily of France is a stiffer flower than the Rose
of England, it is still our own, and French women
ought to love it best.'

What do you mean ? ' asked Jeanne, who
objected to insinuations.

I mean nothing, my dear ; lilies, I am aware,
are out of fashion ; choose violets if you prefer
them,' answered the old gentleman, with a chuckle.

And Jeanne, having no rejoinder ready, took
up her sunshade in dignified silence, and went
home.

In the garden she met Barrington and Leon,
and to them she communicated her design for the
journey in her usual brief, authoritative fashion.
We will take the light carriage,' she said. ' Pierre
Cauvin can drive us ; and M. de Fontvieille, Mr.
Barrington, and I can occupy it. M. de Saint-luc
can ride with you, Leon.'

But I think Saint-Luc woidd like to drive
part of the way,' answered Leon.

Oh, no ; why should he ? He is sure to
prefer riding.'

'We can change about,' said Barrington, magnanimously
; and then the subject dropped.

But wlieii the appointed day came, M. de
Saint-luc rode up to the door, with a very long
face, and announced that it would be impossible
for him to leave Algiers for the next forty-eight

hours at least. * An old friend and brother-officer
of mine arrived from Oran last night,' he said.
He has made a detour on his way back to France
on purpose to see me, and he would not like me
to go away immediately.'

Of course you could not think of such a
thing,' Jeanne answered, decisively ; ' but you will
be able to go into Kabylia some other time ; it will
not be at all too hot for another month at least.'

The Vicomte made a grimace. ' If I do not
go with you, Kabylia will have to make its
arrangements for doing without me this year,' he
said. ' I suppose — I suppose you could not postpone
your departure for a day or two ? '

Oh, no ; I am afraid not. Leon has made an
appointment with Senior Lopez.'

Then I can only trust to overtaking you
before you have finished your tour. I shall start
on horseback as soon as my friend leaves, and, as
I suppose you will stay a day or two at Fort
Napoleon, I may perhaps have the good fortune
to find you there — that is, if you do not object to
my following you.'

Not in the least,' replied Jeanne, not very
cordially ; ' but it will be hardly worth while —
wilt?'

If you were going to the Cape of Good Hope,
instead of to Fort Napoleon, I should think it
worth while to follow you,' said poor Saint-Luc.

Whereupon Jeanne turned impatiently away.

An hour later, she and Barrington were seated
opposite to one another in the dilapidated waggonette
which Leon used for country journeys.
It was an ancient vehicle, with patched cushions
and travel stained leather roof and curtains ; but
its springs were strong, and it had outlived the
jolts and shocks of many an installed road and
stony watercourse. Jeanne loved it for association's
sake ; and Barrington, in his then state of
mind, would not have changed it for the car of
Aurora.

It is nine years or more since Mr. Barrington
was borne swiftly along the dusty road which
leads eastward from Algiers, in that shabby old
shandrydan — and in nine years, the doctors tellus,
our whole outer man has been renewed, so
that the being which calls itself I to-day inhabits
a changed prison from that which it dwelt in a
hundred and eight months ago, and will, if it
survive, occupy a hundred and eight months hence.
Mental statistics are less easy to arrive at, and it
may be that our minds are not as subject to the

inexorable law of change as our bodies. Barrington,
at all events, whose views upon more subjects
than one have unquestionably become modified
by the lapse of nine years, still asserts, in confidential
moments, that he looks back upon that drive
into Kabylia as the happiest episode in his existence.
'Life,' he says, in that melancholy tone
which perfectly prosperous men have a trick of
assuming, ' is a dull enough business, take it all in
all ; but it has its good days here and there.' And
then he sighs, and puffs silently at his cigar for a
minute or two. ' Old de Fontvieille sat on the
box,' he goes on presently, ' and talked to the
driver. Young de Mersac had ridden ahead, and
she and I were as completely alone together as if
we had been upon a desert island. It was a
situation in which human nature instinctively
shakes itself free of commonplace conventionality.
We did not flirt — thank Heaven, Ave were neither
of us so vulgar as to think of flirting ! — but we
talked together as freely and naturally as Adam
and Eve in the Garden of Eden.' And then he
generally heaves another sigh, and rhapsodies on
and on till, patient as one is, one has to remind
him that it is long past bedtime.

As (to use a hackneyed illustration) the

traveller looks back upon distant purple mountains,
forgetting, as he contemplates their soft
beauty, the roughness of the track by which he
crossed them, so Barring ton recalls the happy
bygone days of his Kabylian journey, and ignores
the petty annoyances which somewhat marred his
enjoyment of it while it lasted. To hear him talk,
you would think that the sun had never been too
hot, nor the roads too dusty, during that memorable
excursion ; that good food was obtainable at
every halting-place, and that he had never had
cause to complain of the accommodation provided
for him for the nicest. Time has blotted out from
his mental vision all retrospect of dut, bad food,
and the virulent attacks of the African Hea — a
most malignant insect — manger, iracundus, inexorable,
acer — an animal who dies as hard as a
rhinoceros, and is scarcely less venomous than a
mosquito. He dwells not now upon the horrors
of his first night at Bon-Douaou, during which he
sat up in bed, through long wakeful hours, doggedly
scattering infanticide among his savage
assailants, and producing about as much effect
thereby as a man singing stones at an ironclad
might do. The place where there was nothing
but briny bacon to eat, the place where there was

nothing? but a broken-down billiard-table and a
rug to sleep upon, and the place where there was
nothing to drink, except bad absinthe — all these
have faded out of his recollection. But, in truth,
these small discomforts were soon forgotten, even
at the time.

For when the baking plain was left behind,
and the travellers stood upon the windy summit
of the Col Ben-Aicha, with Great Kabylia beneath
their feet, and the tumbled mass of the Djurdjura
mountains, towering, snow-crowned, against a
cloudless sky, before them, even M. de Fontvieille
no great enthusiast in respect of scenery — was
fain to confess that so magnificent a prospect and
such a strong, bracing air were well worth the
inconvenience it had cost him to obtain them ;
while Barrington broke forth into the most
exaggerated expressions of eulogy, gladdening
thereby the heart of Jeanne, who felt something
of the pride of ownership in the beauty of her
beloved Algeria.

When Thomas of Ercildoune took his famous
ride with the Queen of the Fairies, and reached a
region unknown to man, it will be remembered
that the fair lady drew rein for a few minutes and
indicated to her companion the various paths that

lay before them. There was the thorny way of
righteousness and the broad road of iniquity —
neither of which have ever been found entirely
free from drawbacks by mortals — but besides
these, there was a third path.

O see ye not that bonny road.
That winds about the fernie brae ?
That is the road to fair Elfland,
Where thou and I this night maun gae.

And Thomas seems to have offered no objection
to his leader's choice.

Even so Barrington, though capable of distinguishing
between broad and narrow paths, and
their respective goals ; capable also — which is
perhaps more to the purpose — of forecasting the
results of prudence and folly, chose at this time to
close his eyes, and wander, with Jeanne, into that
fairy-land of which every man gets a glimpse in
his time, though few have the good fortune to
linger within its precincts as long as did Thomas
the Rhymer.

And so there came to him five days of Which
he will probably never see the like again. Five
days of glowing sunshine ; five luminous, starlit
nights — eighty hours, more or less (making deductions

for sleeping time) of unreasoning,
unthinking, unmixed happiness — such was Barrington's
share of Fairyland — and a very fair
share too, as the world goes. He would be puzzled
now — and indeed, for that matter, he would
have been puzzled a week after the excursion —
to give any accurate description of the country
between Algiers and Fort Napoleon. The sum
of his reminiscences was that, in the dewy mornings
and the cool evenings, he drove through a
wooded, hilly country with Jeanne ; that he
rested in the noonday heat at spacious whitewashed
caravanserais or small wayside taverns,
and talked to Jeanne ; that her tall, graceful
figure was the first sight he saw in the morning
and the last at night ; that he never left her side
for more than ten minutes at a time ; that he discovered
some fresh charm in her with each succeeding
hour ; and that when he arrived at Fort
Napoleon, and the limit of his wanderings, he was
as completely and irretrievably in love as ever
man was.

In truth, the incidents of the journey were
well calculated to enhance the mixture of admiration
and reverence with which Barrington had
regarded Mademoiselle de Mersac from the moment

of Ms first meeting with her. Her progress
through Kabyha was like that of a gracious queen
among her subjects. The swarthy Kabyle women,
to whom she spoke in their own language, and
for the benefit of whose ragged children she had
provided herself with a multitude of toys, broke
into shrill cries of welcome when they recognised
her ; the sparse French colonists, at whose farms
she stopped, came out to greet her with smiles
upon their careworn faces ; at the caravanserai of
the Issers, where some hundreds of Arabs were
assembled for the weekly market, the Caid of the
tribe, a stately grey-bearded patriarch, who wore
the star of the Legion of Honour upon his white
burnous, stepped out from his tent, as she approached,
and, bowing profoundly, took her hand
and raised it to his forehead ; even the villanous.
low-browed, thin-lipped Spanish countenance of
Senor Lopez assumed an expression of deprecating
amiability when she addressed him ; he faltered
in the tremendous lies which, from mere force of
habit, he felt constrained to utter about the pedigree
of his colts ; his sly little beady eyes dropped
before her great grave ones, he listened silently
while she pointed out the inconsistencies of his
statements, and finally made a far worse bargain

with M. Leon than he had expected or intended
to do.

And if anything more had been needed to
complete Barrington's subjugation, the want would
have been supplied by Jeanne's demeanour towards
himself. Up to the time of this memorable
journey she had treated him with a
perceptible measure of caprice, being kind or
cold as the humour took her — sometimes receiving
him as an old friend, sometimes as a complete
stranger, and even snubbing him without mercy,
upon one or two occasions. It was her way to
behave so towards all men, and she had not seen
fit to exempt Mr. Barrington altogether from the
common lot of his fellows. But now — perhaps
because she had escaped from the petty trammels
and irritations of every-day life, perhaps because
the free air of the mountains which she loved
disposed her to cast aside formality, or perhaps
from causes unacknowledged by herself — her intercourse
with the Englishman assumed a wholly
new character. She wandered willingly with him
into those quaint Kabyle villages which stand each
perched upon the apex of a conical hill — villages
which took a deal of fighting to capture, and
might have to be taken all over again, so Leon

predicted, one fine day ; she stood behind him
and looked over his shoulder while he dashed off
hasty likenesses of such of the natives as he could
induce, by means of bribes, to overcome their
strong natural aversion to having their portraits
taken ; she never seemed to weary of this company
; and if there was still an occasional touch
of condescension in her manner, it is probable
that Barrington, feeling as he then did, held such
manifestations to be only fitting and natural as
coming from her to him.

And then, by degrees, there sprang up between
them a kind of natural understanding, an intuitive
perception of each other's thoughts and wishes, and
a habit of covertly alluding to small matters and
small jokes unknown to either of their companions.
And sometimes their eyes met for a second, and
often an unintelligible smile appeared upon the
lips of the one to be instantaneously reflected upon
those of the other. All of which things were
perceived by the observant M. de Fontvieille, and
caused him to remark aloud every night, in the
solitude of his own chamber, before going to
bed : ' Madame, I was not the instigator of
this expedition ; on the contrary, I warned you
against it. I had no power and no authority to
VOL. I. Q

prevent its consequences, and I wash my hands
of them.'

The truth is, that the poor old gentleman was
looking forward with some trepidation to an interview
with the Duchess which his prophetic soul
saw looming in the future.

Fort Napoleon, frowning down from its rocky
eminence upon subjugated Kabylia, is the most
important fortress of that once turbulent country,
and is rather a military post than a town or village.
It has, however, a modicum of civilian
inhabitants, dwelling in neat little white houses
on either side of a broad street, and at the eastern
end of the street a small church has been erected.
Thither Jeanne betook herself, one evening, at the
hour of the Ave Maria, as her custom was. The
sun was sinking in the glow of a cloudless sky ;
the breeze, which had rioted all day among the
heights, had died away into a dead calm, and the
universal rest and silence was broken only by the
ting-ting of the little church-bell —

Lie pain il giorno hanger die si more.

Jeanne passed in to her devotions, and the
heretic Englishman lounged at the door and
listened to the slumberous droning of the priest
within. After a time the voice ceased, and then

the worshippers — two or three old crones and a
couple of black-robed Sisters of Charity — trooped
out, and passed away down the sunny street.
Then there was unbroken stillness for five minutes ;
and then the door swung back on its hinges, and
Jeanne emerged from the gloom of the church
and met the dazzling blaze of the sunset, which
streamed full upon her, making her cast her eyes
upon the ground.

She paused for a moment upon the threshold,
and as she stood there, with her pale face, her
drooped eyelids, and a sweet, grave smile upon
her lips, Barrington, whose imagination was forever
playing him tricks, mentally likened her to
one of Fra An^rehco's angels. She did not in
reality resemble one of those ethereal beings much
more than she did the heathen goddess to whom
he had once before compared her ; but something
of the sanctity of the church seemed to cling about
her, and that, together mali the tranquillity of the
hour, kept Barrington silent for a few minutes
after they had walked away side by side. It was
not until they had reached the western ramparts,
and, leaning over them, were gazing down into
purple valleys lying in deep shade beneath the
glowing hill-tops, that he opened his lips.

So we really go back again tomorrow,' he
sighed.

Yes, tomorrow,' she answered, absently.

Back to civilisation — back to the dull, monotonous
world ! What a bore it all is ! I wish I
could stay here for ever ! '

What ? You would like to spend the rest
of your life at Fort Napoleon ? ' said Jeanne, with
a smile. ' How long would it take you to tire of
Kabylia ? A week — two weeks ? Not perhaps
so much.'

Of what does not one tire in time ? ' he answered.
' I have tried most things, and have
found them all tolerably wearisome in the end.
But there is one thing of which I could never
tire.'

And that ? ' — inquired Jeanne, facing him
with raised eyebrows of calm interrogation.

He had been going to say ' Your society,' but
somehow he felt ashamed to utter so feeble a
commonplace, and substituted for it, rather tamely,
My friends.'

Ah ! there are many people who tire of them
also, after a time,' remarked Jeanne. ' As forme,
I have so few friends,' she added, a little
sadly.

I hope you will always think of me as one of
those few said Barrington.

You ? Oh, yes, if you wish it,' she answered,
rather hurriedly. Then, as if desiring to change
the subject, ' How quiet everything is ! ' she exclaimed.
' Quite in the distance I can hear that
there is somebody riding up the hill from Tizi-
Ouzou ; listen ! '

Barrington bent his ear forward, and managed
just to distinguish the faint ringing of a horse's
hoofs upon the road far below. Presently even
this scarcely perceptible sound died away, and a
universal hush brooded over the earth and air.
Then, for a long time, neither of them spoke again
Jeanne because her thoughts were wandering ;
Barrington because he was half afraid of wreathe
might say if he trusted himself to open his
lips.

The sun dipped behind the mountain ridge ; a
little breeze rose, shivered, and fell, and then the
galloping of a horse smote once more loud and
clear upon the ears of the listeners. Nearer and
nearer it sounded, till at last horse and rider shot
out from behind a shoulder of rock directly
beneath them ; showed, for a moment, huge and
black, against the ruddy sky ; and then, clattering

under the arched gateway of the town, disappeared.


It is M. de Saint-Luc ! ' ejaculated Jeanne, ina
tone of some dismay.

And Barrington, beneath his breath, muttered
Hang him ! ' with most heartfelt emphasis.

CHAPTEE X.

IX WHICH MR. Barrington LOSES HIS TEMPER.

Love, which set Trojans and Greeks by the ears of
old, involving pious Aeneas and many-counselled
Ulysses in a peck of troubles — which led Woman
Antony to his death — which was nearly becoming
the ruin of David, King of Israel — and which, in
all ages, has been the cause of many a wise man's
doing many a foolish thing — love it was that had
led Saint-Luc — a person noted for his tact and
good sense — into the stupid blunder of thrusting
himself into the company of four people who
were perfectly happy together without him.

The very thought, indeed, which in hi
normal state of mind would have kept him from
tacking himself on to the party — namely, a strong
suspicion that he was not wanted — had now exercised
a directly opposite influence upon him. A
perpetual vision of Jeanne and Yir. Barrington
wanderings tOi]^ether in wild Kab\]ian solitudes

had so beset Lin by day, and driven sleep from
his pillow by night, ever since he had found himself
alone in Algiers, that at last he could bear it
no longer, and, feeling that reality could have no
pangs in store for him more bitter than those of
imagination, he packed what clothes he required
into a small valise, strapped it on to the front of
his saddle, and galloped off on the track of the
wanderers. And so, having done the distance ina
much shorter time than a prudent man would
have allowed, he reached Fort Napoleon at length,
and earned a chill welcome for himself and a pair
of puffy fore-legs for his horse.

M. de Fontvieille, who happened to be standing
at the door of the little inn, enjoying the evening
air, pulled a wry face when he recognised
the impetuous horseman who drew rein beside
him.

What — is it you, M. le Yicomte ? ' he cried,
in anything but a joyous tone.

Saint-Luc did not seem to notice any want of
cordiality in his reception. He swung himself out
of the saddle, and held out his hand, exclaiming—


What good fortune that I find you still
here ! '

How, good fortune ? I don't understand
you,' returned the old gentleman rather testily.
Of course we are here. Where else should we
be?'

I feared you might have altered your route
and gone to Delays, or somewhere else,' answered
Saint-Luc, rather abashed. ' I thought,' he continued
apologetically, ' that as I was unable to
start with you, I might venture to follow as soon
as I found myself free ; so I set out from Algiers
yesterday morning — and here I am."

So I perceive,' grunted M. de Fontvieille, not
at all mollified ; • and charmed as I am to see you,
monsieur, I can only regret that you should have
put yourself to so much inconvenience, for I fear
you will have had your ride for your pains. We
start on our return journey early tomorrow
morning. Heaven be praised ! I confess that
years have deprived me of all taste for rough
travelling.'

To-morrow morning ! ' echoed Saint-Lu?,
rather blankly. ' Hem I — nothing can be more
certain than that my horse will not be in a state
to leave the stable for another four-and-twenty
hours at least. But I can easily get him sent
back from here in a dav or two,' he added.

brightening. 'Perhaps you would kindly allow
me to take a seat in your carriage. Or would
that incommode you too much ? '

Poor M. de Fontvieille was not in the best of
tempers. As he had said, he was no longer of
an age to enjoy roughing it, and any pleasure he
might have derived from the contemplation of fine
scenery had been completely neutralised of late
by the discovery of the growing intimacy between
Jeanne and the Englishman. Moreover, he had
been kept waiting more than half an hour for his
dinner, and the inopportune appearance of Saint-luc
was, at this especial moment, almost too much
for him. The carriage does not belong to me,' he
replied crossly ; ' but I dare say Leon will have no
objection to your taking a place in it ; it is made
to hold six people at a pinch, I believe. For
myself, I have hitherto sat on the box, and I
intend to do so for the remainder of the trip. I
do not like the box-seat ; it is exposed to the sun
and the dust, and I am compelled to lean back
upon an iron rail which eats into my spine ; but I
prefer that to making one of three inside. It is
you who will occupy that enviable position tomorrow,
monsieur.'

This was not very pleasant. Saint-Luc began

to wish that he had remained in Algiers. But
while he was doubting what reply to make, a
friendly slap on his shoulder made him turn
round with a start, and he found himself face
to face with Leon.

So you have come at last ! * cried that innocent
young man. ' We had quite given up all hope of
you. Why did you not start sooner? '

I could not get away,' the poor Yicomte
answered ruefully ; ' and now I am not sure
whether I shall do well to return with you.
JkF. de Fontvieille has just been telling me that I
shall be de trop in the carriage ; and I cannot
take my horse out tomorrow.'

*- De trop ? — nonsense — how can you be de trop ?
M. de Fontvieille was joking,' said Leon rather
confusedly ; for he understood what the old gentleman
had meant, and wondered how he could
have been so foolish as to stk up unnecessary
jealousies. He (Leon) would never have committed
such a gaucherie. By way of repaying
the mischief, and making things comfortable, he
went on to say that, so far from making an unwelcome
addition to the party, Saint-Luc's arrival
would be an immense comfort to them all —
especially to Jeanne, who must be getting tired

of Mr. Barrington by this time, charming as he is.
I have had business in one place and another,
which has forced me to perform nearly the whole
journey in solitude ; and so, of course, the duty of
entertaining the stranger has fallen upon Jeanne,
though in reality he is rather my friend than hers.
It will be a pleasant change for her to have
some one else to talk to during the long drive
home.'

You think so ? ' said Saint-Luc with a faint
smile. ' But that, after all, is hardly the question.
M. de Fontvieille only pointed out to me that
three is an awkward number — and I quite agree
with him.'

Pierre might ride my horse, and then we
could all go in the carriage together,' suggested
the accommodating Leon. And then Barrington
and Jeanne came in sight, strolling up the street
in the twilight as leisurely as if three hungry men
were not waiting dinner for them.

Barrington, distinguishing the little silent group
at the inn-door, guessed at once that they had been
talking about him. M. de Fontvieille fidgeted in
his cane chair, and glanced sharply from him to
Jeanne and from Jeanne back to him again.
Leon looked embarrassed, and Saint-Luc, leaning

against the door-post with folded arms and eyes
gloomily riveted upon the ground, remained immovable
as a statue. And now, for the first time,
Barrington realised with a transient jealous twinge
what a singularly handsome man his rival was. An
oval face, an olive complexion, a heavy black moustache,
a small head well set on to a pair of broad
shoulders, a tall, lithe, muscular frame — what
more could anyone desire in the shape of manly
beauty? Saint-Luc wore a sun-helmet, tightly
fitting cords, and high riding-boots, and, flung
back from his shoulders, was the short cavan or
white, hooded cloak which is worn by officers in
Algeria when on up-country duty, and is also in
much favour among such civilians as have an eye
for effect. It is of no earthly use, but it is unquestionably
a picturesque and becoming garment.
Barrington was neither tall nor specially good-looking.
He wore, on the present occasion, a
tweed suit, not in its first freshness, a wide-awake
hat, and a puggaree soiled with a week's dust.
Why didn't I get one of those confounded sun-helmets
? ' he thought ; and then inwardly laughed
a little at his own vanity. Was Jeanne the
woman to draw comparisons between sun-helmets
and wide-awakes ?

A few minutes later the whole party were
seated at a round table in the low-roofed salle-manger,
discussing what by courtesy was called
their dinner by the light of an evil-smelling
paraffin lamp. They had not noticed the offensiveness
of the oil before, but they all remarked
upon it now ; they discovered, too, that the food
was bad, and the wine execrable, and the tablecloth
dirty. Conversation flagged somewhat, nor
did anyone venture upon a foolish little joke,
such as had been wont of late to crop up about
this hour. Jeanne was cold, stately, and reserved
the Jeanne of the Campagne de Mersac in her
least expansive moments — a very different person
from the girl who had driven with Barrington
over the Col Ben-Aicha and the lowlands of the
Issers. And so one, at least, of the company was
there and then summarily ejected from Fairyland,
and falling roughly upon hard, practical earth,
lost his temper a little m the process. That is the
worst of aerial castle-building : one touch from a
clumsy, unconscious, not malevolent hand, and
away goes the whole flimsy fabric, leaving no
trace behind it. The poor stupid paw that has
swept it into space has only forestalled time a
little, and ought not, perhaps, to be blamed, but it

can hardly expect to escape some momentary
hatred. Barrington, for whom all rough places
had been carefully made smooth from his childhood
up, resented a stroke of bad luck like a
personal affront, and was always angry with
anyone who hurt him, whether intentionally or
not. He was very angry now with Saint-Luc,
which was perhaps pardonable ; he was angry
also with Leon and M. de Fontvieille, which was
hardly fair ; and lastly, he was angry with Jeanne
for not devoting her whole attention to him,
which was most unjust. At his time of life
he ought to have known better than to show his
annoyance ; but he did not. He sulked openly,
returned curt answers when he was addressed,
contradicted Saint-Luc half-a-dozen times in an
entirely uncalled-for manner, and generally did
his best to render an uncomfortable situation
worse than it need have been.

Everybody was thankful when the dreary
meal was at an end ; and the old commandant
of the place happening to drop in at that moment,
and challenging M. de Fontvieille to a
game of dominoes, Jeanne gladly seized the opportunity
to propose to the others that they should
go outside into the cool evening air. 'It is

impossible to breathe in this atmosphere,' she
said ; ' I am stifling.'

So they all passed from the glare and heat of
the room, through the doorway, where the landlord
and a few of his friends were chatting over
their cigarettes, and out into the solemn starlight ;
Jeanne first, then Saint-Luc, then Leon, Barrington
bringing up the rear.

The latter was still at loggerheads with the
world. He wanted to walk With Jeanne, but he
did not choose to make the first advance, and
loitered behind, thinking that she would perhaps
make some sign to him to join her. As a matter
of course she did no such thing. She gave him
his chance by standing for a minute before the
inn to wrap the light burnous which she had
brought out with her about her shoulders ; but
as he did not take advantage of it, she marched
away up the street at a steady pace without
casting a glance behind her, and Saint-Luc
strode by her side. Barrington made no effort to
follow them. He lighted a cigar with much deliberation,
stuck his hands into his pockets, and
strolled across the road to a bench, upon which
he seated himself. Leon, after a moment of
hesitation, followed his example, remarking

blandly as he did so : ' It is a charming night fora
walk.'

So your sister and M. de Saint-luc appear
to think. I can't understand how people can
enjoy posting off at the rate of five miles an hour
directly they have swallowed their dinner,' remarked
Barrington.

Why, you have walked after dinner every
night yourself till this evening,' cried Leon innocently.


Barrington made no reply. He was gazing
after two figures which were rapidly diminishing
into the gloom. They vanished for a second
under the deep shadow of some acacia trees ; then
they emerged, and he caught a glimpse of the
shimmer of Jeanne's burnous and Saint-Luc's
short white cloak fluttering in the night breeze ;
then the intervening angle of a house shut them
out again, and they were gone.

Barrington sighed, and puffed silently at his
cigar. After all, he was only playing at being
jealous ; he was not really afraid of the handsome
Yicomte ; he was only chagrined that his happy
dream should have been so rudely dispelled ; and,
moreover, if he had analysed his feelings, he
would have found that no small part of his annoy-vol.

I. R

ance was due to the first stirring in his mind of
that disquieting question which must, sooner or
later, arise out of love-making — how is it to end ?
He had dodged out of the way of this pertinacious
little note of interrogation ; he had tried to stifle
it, and pretended to ignore it, but, spite of all he
could do, there it was ; and now what could be
expected but that it should grow larger and
larger and daily more obtrusive till it got a plain
answer out of its victim ? As yet, however, barrington
had not begun to disturb himself with
reference to the future, and was conscious only of
a vague uneasiness, together with a strong present
desire to arise up and follow Jeanne and
Saint-Luc into the darkness. But as such a proceeding
would involve loss of dignity, he decided
to resist his inclinations and remain where he
was. ' She will come back presently,' he thought,
and then I can apologise for having been surly
at dinner. I believe I did make myself rather
pleasant, now I come to think of it.'

Ten minutes passed slowly away, while Leon
discoursed about the conquest of Kabylia and
wasted some interesting anecdotes upon a preoccupied
hearer ; but Jeanne did not return.
There was a stir and a scraping of chairs in the

inn over the way ; M. le Commandant, wrapped
in his military cloak, stepped out into the street
and strode away Avitli ringing spurs ; a light
appeared in M. de Fontvieille's bed-room and
ere long was extinguished. That unworthy
chaperon had gone to bed leaving his charge
to roam about with young men under the stars.
The church-clock struck the half-hour, and
Barrington becran to fidget. Leon had spot out
of the regions of history now, and was discussing
the respective merits of military and civil
government in Algeria — ' Circles militaires' —
Bureaux Arches ' — ' two hundred thousand
Europeans against two millions and a half of
indigenes ' — ' the necessity of keeping an active
force always before the eyes of half-civilised races.'
Disjointed fragments of Leon's harangue fell
meaningless upon Barrington's inattentive ears,
and he threw in a ' Yes ' or a ' Xo,' or an ' Exactly
so,' as occasion appeared to require.

Your sister is taking a very long walk,' he
said at length, anxiety getting the better of self-respect.


Xot longer than usual, is she ? it is so warm
and fine to-night. Well, you see these vile
Republicans — a set of beggarly ruffians whose

E 2

only policy is to uproot every existing institution,
in order that they may have a chance of picking
up something when there is a scramble for fresh
places — are agitating for a civil government.
They complain of this and that, and point to
abuses here and there ; and abuses there are,
sure enough, but what would you have ? Are
civilians likely to be honest men than soldiers P
For my part, I believe that officials of all
classes will invariably fill their pockets out of
the public exchequer, whenever they see an opportunity
of doing so without being found in
the act. ]!^o, no ; what we want is security —
security for our lives, security for our property.'

Quite right, I'm sure. Security, as you say,
is the essential thing, and without security, you
know — why, where are you, you know ? Your
sister and M. de Saint-Luc have been away
exactly three-quarters of an hour. Is it possible
that they can have lost their way ? '

Quite impossible. The gates of the town
are shut, and they cannot be very far a^vay from
us at this moment. What I maintain is that
the Arab will never understand nor fear a ruler
in a black coat. The Governor-general ought
always to be a man who is ready to enforce

obedience at the head of an army, if need lee,
and those who imagine that there will be no more
fighting in Algeria are very much mistaken. This
idea of a Civil Governor is only the first step in a
policy which must end in disaster. The same men
who clamour for a reformed system of rule, declare
that we have many more regiments in the country
than are necessary for our protection. If they
carry out their programme, the Algerian forces
will be gradually reduced till, some fine morning,
we shall wake to find that the Arabs have risen
and the whole colony is in a blaze. We poor
farmers shall lose our property ; hundreds of unfortunate
Europeans will be massacred, and — oh,
here is Jeanne.'

When is the massacre to take place, Leon ? '
asked that young lady, appearing suddenly out of
the gloom, followed by M. de Saint-Luc. ' More
people die of fever than of massacre in this
country, Mr. Barrington, and the very best way to
catch a fever is to sit out at night when the dews
are falling. For Leon it does not matter, he is
acclimatised ; but he ought to have made you
walk about.'

I meant to have walked, but I was waiting
for you. I could not tell that you would be such

a very long time a^vay,' said Barrington, in a
slightly aggrieved tone.

I am sorry that you should have been kept
waiting,' she answered, rather coldly ; ' and now it
is too late to think of anything but bed. I am so
tired that I think I will bid you all good-night at
once.'

She turned as lie spoke, and, crossing the road,
vanished into the inn, and Barrington, being out of
temper with the world generally and M. de Saint-luc
particularly, threw away the end of his cigar
and announced that he was going to bed too.

^ We will all go to bed ; we shall have to start
earls tomorrow morning,' said Leon ; but Saint-luc
laid his hand upon the young man's arm,
saying, ' Wait for another quarter of an hour ; I
want to have a chat with you ' — so Barrington
entered the house alone.

Saint-Luc linked his arm within that of his
young friend, led him back to the bench which
the Englishman had just vacated, and, throwing
himself down upon it, sighed out : ' Well, it is allover
1 She will have nothing to say to me.'

Leon could not pretend to misunderstand his
meaning. He was sincerely sorry to hear such
bad news, for he liked Saint-Luc, and would

gladly have welcomed liii as a brother-in-law,
and, moreover, the Duchess and M. de Fontvieille
had taken a great deal of trouble lately to convince
him of the desirability of his sister's speedy
marriage. At the same time experience had
taught him that Jeanne always knew her own
mind, and that when she said no, she meant no ;
and this knowledge made it difficult for him to
find any consolatory reply for the benefit of the
luckless wooer. At length, however, he asked —
Are you quite sure of that ? ' which was perhaps
the best thing he could have said under the
circumstances.

It is not her fault if I am not,' returned Saint-luc,
with a dreary laugh. ' She told me she could
no more marry me than M. de Fontvieille.'

That,' said Leon, feeling very uncomfortable,
and wishing most heartily that his friend could
have chosen some other confidant — ' that is, of
course, only a way of speaking. Jeanne often
expresses herself strongly ; but she does not always
mean quite all that she says, and I am sm:e that
she did not intend to be unkind or rude to you.'

She was neither the one nor the other ; on
the contrary, she was most kind. I think she has
not quite understood me till now. She thought I

was seeking a mariage de convenance, whereas —
but it does not much signify. No one could have
been more gentle and compassionate than she
was, but that does not alter the fact that she has
broken my heart. Do not laugh, Leon. A year
ago I no more believed in broken hearts than you
do ; but when a man suffers such pain as I suffer,
he must cease to be a sceptic, whether he will or
no. I know what you would say — " On ne meurt
pas de cette maladie-la " — but that is just what
makes it a more infernal torture than any physical
one. Tenez ! if it were not that I dread causing
annoyance to others, I would put a pistol to my
head this very night. Bon Dieu! what is this
wretched tinct called life that a man should care
to keep it in his body ? What has my life been ?
The life of a dog — what do I say — of a lap-dog —
a useless, dull, over-fed brute. Looking back
upon past years, I cannot recall a single day or a
single hour that I would choose to hive over again :
it is all idleness, and satiety, and disgust. I don't
know how far I have been to blame ; there must
be some atom of good in me, or I should not so
abhor myself; but I suppose it has not had force
to struggle against the bad side of my nature.
Before I met your sister I looked forward to

dawdling through the rest of mv life in ii resisted,
discontented sort of way. I knew I should never
be of the smallest good to myself or anybody else
in the world, and I did not much care ; but then
I saw her, and fell in love with her (God knows
why or wherefore — we wretched humans have no
control over our fate), and that changed everything.
I thought I might possibly become — I
won't say worthy of her — but as worthy as a man
with my past could be. I had dreams and projects,
all of which have been blown into space by
one word, so that I need not trouble you with
them. Ah, why did I ever see her .^ Why was
I not left in my brutish indifference, if I was to
spend all the rest of my life in hopelessness and
solitude ? If I believed in the Christian religion
which I do not, unfortunately ; the world that
I have lived in has honestly rejected that faith,
finding it impossible to make it fit in with its own
system of morality — I say, if I were a Christian. I
would turn Trappist. It is a kind of suicide
which the Church, knowing that some loophole
out of the world must be left open for desperate
men, permits, and is even kind enough to reward
with a palm and a crown, instead of ^\dth hell-fire.
But that door is closed to me. I have no faith in

the palm or the crown, and should not know what
to do with them when I had got them. There
remains the pistol. I shall not use it just yet, for
reasons that you may surmise ; but before many
months are over, I hope to rid society of one of
its most useless members.'

So poor Saint-Luc raved on, pacing to and fro
in the dust and throwing his arms about as Frenchmen
will do when they are in despair, or fancy
themselves so. We English are a less demonstrative
race ; still one has heard a deal of nonsense
talked by one's own compatriots under similar
circumstances. The difficulty is to know what to
say by way of comfort to a man who has just
been refused. To tell him that he will get over
it in time may be true, but savours of brutality,
while encouragement to make another attempt
may only lead him on to a second repulse.
Practically, however, I believe that everybody
does adopt the latter alternative. Leon, at all
events, did so upon the present occasion.

I think you would be wrong to take Jeanne's
decision as final,' he said, as soon as he could get
a hearing. ' You have been a little abrupt with
her, and then, too, it seems to me that you have
not chosen a very appropriate occasion.'

Do you seriously mean to tell me,' broke in
Saint-Luc, ' that it would lia\-e made the slightest
difference if I had spoken last week, or had put oil"
doing so till next ? Bali I I found myself alone
with her — a thing which does not happen to me
every day, let me remind you — I was tired of
suspense, and I said to myself that I would know
the worst — Voila ! '

That is just it. You made up your mind
that you would know the worst, and you let her
see that you expected the worst, and therefore
you failed. All women are the same; throw
yourself at their feet, and they will trample upon
you ; face them boldly, and they will yield,' said
Leon, whose youthful assumption of knowledge of
a subject which the wisest of men have failed to
fathom will perhaps be pardoned by those who
remember that he was really sorry for his friend,
and was doing Avhat in him lay to console the
afflicted one. ' I grant you that Jeanne is not
like other girls,' continued this successful student
of character ; ' her education and position are
different from those of other girls — else you could
hardly have spoken to her as you have done this
evening — but for all that, she is a woman, and
women require humouring. The fact is that you

have addressed yourself to her at the wrong
moment.'

The wrong moment ! ' interrupted Saint-Luc
' why the wrong moment ? Because that Eng-
ghslnnan is here ? Is there ever a moment when
he is not with her ? My good Leon, I am as
much in love as it is possible to be, but I am not
therefore blind. It is sufficiently evident to me
that your sister will marry the Englishman,
against whom I have nothing to say. If he be
not more worthy of her than I, he must be a far
worse man than I take him for. Whether he
loves her as devotedly as I do, is another question.'


Jeanne marry Mr. Barrington ? Absurd ! '
cried Leon. ' Neither M. de Fontvieille, nor the
Duchess, nor I, would ever consent to her becoming
the wife of a foreigner and a Protestant '

But I thought she was free to marry whom
she pleased ? '

Well, yes, so she is, in a certain sense ; but
of course she Avould never think of disregarding
the wishes of — of all her friends. Besides, she
would never have been so friendly with Mr. Barrington
if she had had an idea of such an end to
this intimacy. No, no. my friend ; believe me,

there is nothing of that kind. Try again in a
month's time ; be less diffident, and you will very
likely be successful. I think Jeanne knows that
all our sympathies are with you.'

Will you speak to her on the subject ? ' asked
Saint-Luc, who was only too willing to be persuaded
into hope, against his own judgment.

Why, no,' answered Leon, hesitatingly ; ' I
don't think I could quite do that ; she would not
like it. You see, she is a little older than I am,
and she has always been accustomed to take the
lead, and she is not precisely one of those people
whom one can interfere with easily, and — and —
in point of fact, I really doubt ^^-hether my speaking
would not do more harm than good. If I am
to be quite candid with you, I must confess that
neither I nor anybody else has much authority
over Jeanne ; but she is so good and so self-sacrificing
that she would do a great deal to please
any one of us, and '

'I don't wish her to sacrifice herself,' interrupted
Saint-Luc.

'I express myself badly. What I meant to
say was that our wishes would have a good deal
of weight with her. As I told you just now, I
believe she knows what our wishes are, and we

will try to make them more apparent. I don't
see that we can do anything more for you.'

I suppose not,' sighed Saint-Luc. ' I will try
iigain then ; it is a forlorn hope, but it is better
than nothing. Thank you for your sympathy.
'Now you are dying to get to sleep, and I will not
keep you up any longer. Good-night.'

So Leon went to his bed, and Saint-Luc
roamed about the silent town till daylight,
mentally balancing himself against Barrington,
and deriving no encouragement from the process.

It is perhaps needless to add that he did not
occupy the vacant seat in the waggonette on the
following day.

CHAPTEE XI.

IX WHICH ^[R. Barrington Wins A GAME OF
BILLIARDS.

One of the most grievous burdens attaching to
royal bn-th must be, one would think, the impossibility
of getting from one country to another
without well-meant but tedious demonstrations of
loyalty and respect. An unfortunate emperor,
king, or prince lands from the steamer in which,
perhaps, he has been woefully sea-sick, or steps out
of his special train, dirty and weary, and thereupon
the platform, stands his worship the mayor,
in furred gown and gold chain, Avitli an attendant
body of aldermen and town-councillors, and proceeds
to entertain the illustrious traveller with a
loyal and long-winded address of welcome. The
poor royal personage knows perfectly well the
stereotyped, meaningless phrases which are about
to be hurled at him, and knows also the terms in
which it will be expected he should reply thereto.

The whole business must be to him a monstrous
unnecessary bore ; still, it has to be gone through,
and he goes through it as cheerfully as may be.
IF, however, he be a shifty royal personage, and
can manage to get his luggage moved with extra
rapidity, there is a reasonable mode of escape
open to Mm. It may be announced that his
Majesty, or his Eoyal Highness, as the case maybe,
is compelled to proceed on his journey withall
possible despatch, and must deny himself the
pleasure of hearing or delivering speeches on his
way ; the loyal address, therefore, will be « taken
as read.' So the illuminated parchment is hastily
shoved in at the carriage window, the exalted
creature inside advances, lows and smiles with
such affability as nature has granted to him, and
is presently whisked away in a manner satisfactory,
it is to be hoped, both to himself and others.

If only certain days of our life, the net result
of which can be easily foretold — days of mere
barren vexation and weariness of the flesh — could
be thus summarily dismissed, and taken as lived,
how thankful some of us would be ! In real life,
unfortunately, there is no stealing a march upon
Time : we must take the rough with the smooth,
and all we have to consider is how to swallow

measureless tedium with a minimum of yawns ;
but when it comes to be a question of fiction, to
which, it may be presumed, nobody resorts unless
with some faint expectation of amusement, nature
revolts against dulness, and nimbly skips over the
prosy passages. Those prosy passages need never
be written at all, and much labour might be
spared to writer as well as reader could the former
but guess when he is about to become wearisome ;
but that, no doubt, is past hoping for. Of one
thing, however, every narrator may be sure —
that when, in the course of his story, he feels
disposed to dwell upon any particular subject, he is
getting upon dangerous ground, and had best
quit that subject without further delays The
present writer, being conscious of an inclination
to linger among the sunny valleys and breezy
heights of Kabylia, now, therefore, resolutely
turns away from that pleasant land, and shutting
out his background of mountains and blue sky,
narrows the limits of his stage to the four walls
of a heated and not over well-lighted billiard-room.


It is a long, low-roofed room, occupying the
whole entresol above one of the principal cafes of
Algiers, and containing several tables. At one of
VOL. I. s

these Barrington and a friend, picked up at the
Hotel orient, are hard at work in their shirt-sleeves,
endeavouring, not very successfully, to
master the science of the cannon game, while at a
more distant one, M. de Saint-Luc, with pale face
and downcast mien, is absently knocking the balls
about, pausing every now and again to emit a
half-smothered sigh. Leon, outstretched upon
a sofa, with a cigarette in his mouth and a tall
glass of vermouth aid water on a table at his side,
contemplates with the serene smile of a man who
has dined well, the blue smoke clouds that slowly
drift away from him ; and, on the opposite side
of the room, a diminutive, close-cropped waiter,
worn out by the labour and heat of the day, is
snatching a well-earned snooze, perched on a high
stool, on whose slippery summit he perilously
sways and lurches. From the cafe beneath rises
a confused hubbub, a clinking of glasses, a clattering
of dominoes, a roar of excited voices, such
as in England would convey the idea of nothing
less than an imminent free-fight, but here means
only that a few good bourgeois and line-officers
are enjoying a quiet evening after their habitual
manner ; in the street below a shrill-voiced boy
is shouting, ' Moniteur d'Algerie, journal du soir !

Achates le Moniteur d'Algerie ! ' and from time to
time, when the tmiiult abates for a second or two,'
the monotonous thrum, thrum, thrum of a guitar
can be heard faintly rising from a Moorish cafe
down by the water-side.

Here, in the billiard-room, there is silence unbroken
save by the click of the balls and the
occasional execrations of Mr. Barrington's friend,
Who plays a very fair game at the club at home,
and is surprised and disgusted to find how little
mastery he has over foreign balls and cues.

Never saw such a beastly game in my life ! '
he exclaims wrathfully, throwing himself down
upon a chair. ' Might as well play with footballs
and barge-poles, by Jove I I'll trouble you for the
tip of that cue ! Just look at it, will you ! Why,
it's a couple of inches broad.'

Ah, it's a game you have to get accustomed
to,' remarks Barrington, scoring rather neatly ;
but Y/hen you understand it, it's less fluke than
ours, and I really think there is more play in it.'

Don't see any play in it at all,' growls the other ;
and then there is another long period of silence.
The little waiter, with head thrown back and open
mouth, begins to snore, and the clock in the tower
of the great mosque chimes half-past ten. Presently

Saint-Luc lays down this cue, and strolls
dejectedly towards the sofa u])ou wliicli Leon's
long body is extended.

Leon,' says he, in a sepulchral voice, ' when
did you last have an earthquake here ? '

An earthquake ? Oh, I hardly remember.
We have a few slight shocks every year, but nobody
ever thinks anything of them. Once, I
remember, there was a great alarm in the middle
of the night, and a good many people rushed out
into the streets in very scanty apparel, and one
silly old woman jumped out of window and broke
her leg. But, after all, there was no damage
done. Why do you ask ? '

'Because I am quite convinced that we are
going to have an earthquake to-night. I have never
in my life felt in such low spirits as I do at this
moment, and I have a sort of unaccountable sensation
of dread, Which, I take it, nest mean that
the earth is about to open and swallow me up.
Not that that would be such a great misfortune
after all.'

Bah ! It is a hot evening, and you are tired
and out of sorts, as anyone would be who had
spent three days all by himself at Fort Napoleon
and then ridden back upon a lame horse. Come

and have a game of billiards, and let us think no
more about earthquakes. For my part, I can
assure you that, whatever your wishes may be, I
should disHke nothing more than being pounded
to death by a falling house ; and if I thought
there was the slightest cano-er of such a thing
happening, I should be out of this room in another
moment. Come and play.'

Saint-Luc drops into a chair and shakes his
head. ' I cannot playvbilliards to-night,' he says :
I should not be able to make a single stroke.
Ah, Leon, I have my own good reasons for being
miserable, as you know ; and I suppose there is
no chance of an earthquake, or why should I alone
be affected by it P You seem in excellent spirits.
I saw you driving ^vith that de Tremonville
woman to-day, and she gave you a rose, and you
blushed, and stuck it in your button-hole, you
foolish boy. Is that why you lie smiling there
like a young god on Olympus ? Don't be angry ;
we men are all made fools of by women ; we can't
escape our destiny, and would not, perhaps, if we
could. Imagine yourself in paradise while you
can — that is the truest wisdom. That tumbler at
your elbow contains nothing but bitter vermouth
and half-tepid water, but if you can bring yourself

to quaff it under the impression that it is
nectar, why it is nectar as far as you are concerned.
some day you will discover that Madame
de Tremonville is — well, is a different person from
what you now think her to be ; but so long as
you can keep your illusions, why not do so?
That Englishman looks happy too. Did he drive
back with her? But of course he did.'

Well, yes ; but M. de Fontvieille also took a
seat inside the carriage. I heard Jeanne ask him
to do so.'

You did ? She asked him to take a seat
inside ? ' cried Saint-Luc eagerly. ' I wonder
what made her do that.'

How can I tell ? She was tired of Mr. Barrington
very likely. It seemed to. me that they
were not quite such good friends after you appeared
as they had been before. Believe me,
mon cher, you have no cause for jealousy. Mr.
Barrington must return to England very soon
now, and then '

'Ah, then!'

Bang ! Bang I from the further end of the
room. Barrington's friend, in a frantic effort to
screw,' has driven his cue through the cloth, and
sent one of the balls spinning off the table. The

little waiter, rudely awakened from his slumbers,
loses his balance, falls from his perch with a loud
crash, and then, picking himself up, and immediately
recovering his presence of mind, pipes
out

• Best cinquanie francs le premier accroc, messieurs.'


Oh, oh I I like that I ' cries the delinquent,
indignantly. ' Cinquante francs — rubbish ! Look
here, you little beggar ! Regarded ici — et la — et
Ik,' pointing to the traces of several previous injuries
to the cloth. ' Coupe all over the place,
you know. Je paierai cinq francs, and not
another centime — so you needn't say any more
about it.'

The waiter shrugs his shoulders doubtfully,
and says he will consult the ' patron ; ' and peace
being restored, Barrington resumes his cue, and,
adroitly drawing the balls into a corner, finishes
the game with a break of ten.

The defeated player paid his stake, settled
with the waiter, and after making some brief but
trenchant observations upon the game of French
billiards, took himself ofi*. Then Barrington, who
was in high good humour, both because he had
won his game and on account of other reasons,

strolled across the room and poked Leon in the
ribs with his cue.

Well, de Mersac,' said he, ' what have you
been doing with yourself all day ? I was at your
house this afternoon, and thought I should have
seen you there. How do you do, M. de Saint-luc
? You have just come back from Fort Napoleon,
I suppose ? '

Old Mr. Ashley, whose property adjoins warrington's
more extensive one, and who has always
lived upon the best of terms with his neighbour,
has been heard to say that the latter would be one
of the pleasantness-mannered men in England if
only he could get out of the habit of talking to
others as though he were the Prince of Wales ;
and, indeed, it is true that there is a certain prosperous
affability in the demeanour of this fortunate
gentleman which men who are out of luck or out
of temper sometimes find it hard to bear. Saint-luc
was too well-bred to answer his rival otherwise
than politely ; but if he could have followed
the bent of his own inclinations, and reverted to
the customs of a primitive state of society, he
would then and there have arisen and pommelled
him soundly. That the man should look so disgustingly
contented and happy was, perhaps, not

his fault ; but that allusion to Fort Napoleon
might surely have been spared.

Then there was an interval of silence, after
which Leon swung his long legs off the sofa,
stretched himself, yawned, and said he thought he
would go and look in at the club.

I am going home to bed ; and if you are
wise you will follow my example,' observed Barrington,
who knew very well what ' looking in at
the club ' meant.

Ah, but I am not wise,' rejoined Leon,
rather tartly ; for, in common with the rest of
humanity, he dished nothing so much as good
advice.

He added, ' You are coming. are you not,
Saint-Luc?'

The Vicomte fumbled in his waistcoat pocket,
and drew out a handful of coins and notes, which
he proceeded to count. 'Yes,' he answered,
when he had finished his sum ; ' I find I have
aot three hundred francs about me. That much
I am prepared to lose, but I shall retire as soon
as my pockets are empty.'

And I,' observed Leon, ' have got exactly
fifty-five francs fifty centimes ; and I have no
intention of retiring before I am sleepy.'

Then I can only hope, for your sake, that
you will be sleepy soon,' said Barrington, putting
on his hat. ' Good-night, monsieur. Good-night,
de Mersac. I daresay I shall see you tomorrow.'

Virtue has spread her wings and flown,' remarked
Saint-Luc, as the swing door closed behind
the Englishman. ' You are now alone with Vice,
as fitly represented in my humble person. I beg
you to observe, however, that I decline the additional
role of Temptation— I will even take upon
myself to say that, much as I enjoy your society,
I should prefer to say good-night now.'

Why ? ' asked Leon, rather affronted.

Firstly, because they are playing lansquenet
at the club to-night, and lansquenet is, of all
games that I know, the one at which large sums
are most easily lost. Secondly, because there is
no luck in the air to-night. Thirdly, because you
have not got enough money in your pockets. I
have three hundred francs, the loss of which will
sober me. You will lose what you have in a few
minutes, after which you will take to paper, and
become reckless. Also, your head is not so cool
as mine to start with.'

Looked upon as a deterrent, the observation
was scarcely a happy one. Nobody — above all,

no young man — likes to be told that his head is
not cool ; nor is it flattering to lee cautioned against
the seductive nature of any amusement by a man
who is himself about to engage in it.

You talk as if I were a baby,' Leon answered
in a tone of some annoyance. ' I have played
lansquenet before now, and I am not such a fool
as not to know when to stop.'

Saint-Luc shrugged his shoulders. ' I have
warned you,' said he ; • I could do no more. I
hope you will recollect that tomorrow morning
when you wake up with a headache, and try to
calculate the amount of your losses. Probably,
however, you ^vill blame me — and so will others.
That will be nothing more than my usual luck.'

I shall do nothing of the sort,' answered
Leon ; ' and I don't know whom you mean by
others. When I lose my money, I generally keep
the fact to myself.'

Do you ? ' said Saint-Luc. ' I have never
been able to achieve such reticence. But it does
not much matter. Things can hardly be much
worse with me than they are already. Shall
we go ? '

Leon understood it all, and was not best
pleased. Jeanne had been the kindest of sisters

to him, and he had a reverence and respect for
her rather filial than fraternal ; still few sons can
bear with equanimity the idea that their mother
has requested a stranger to keep them out of mischief,
and Leon, as he held open the door for his
friend to pass out, said to himself that the time
had come for him to shake off feminine rule.

The two men descended the stairs together in
silence, and a few steps brought them to the door
of the club, which occupied the first floor of a
large corner house. The room which they presently
entered was a lofty and spacious one,
lighted by a big crystal chandelier, and furnished
with a multiplicity of easy chairs. In some of
these a few members were dozing ; a little knot
of idlers were smoking on the balcony, and at the
further end of the room some eight or ten men,
mostly officers in the Chasseurs d'Afrique, were
congregated round a card-table. One of the latter
wheeled round as the newcomers approached,
and beckoned to them.

Come and bring us a change of luck,' he
cried. ' There never was such a dull game as
this since the world began ! Would you believe
that we have been playing for three quarters of

an hour, and that nobody has lost a sou except
myself, who am minus three napoleons.'

I have lost five,' said another man, in a
rather aggrieved tone.

And ought to have lost five hundred,* retorted
the first speaker. • What is the use of
playing with a man like you, who always make a
point of throwing good money after bad, if nobody
is ever to get a deal ? I don't think any
single dealer has had more than two turns.'

Be comforted, de Monceaux,' said Saint-Luc,
seating himself on the left hand of the grumbler.
I have brought three hundred francs with me for
the express purpose of losing them, and perhaps
some sliai'e of the plunder may find its way into
your pocket.'

Xot if you sit there,' rejoined the other.
Your stake will be covered three times over
before I get a chance of putting anything on. If
you think you are going to have bad luck, for
Heaven's sake seat yourself above ins eat of
below me.'

But Leon had taken the chair next to that
which Saint-Luc now occupied, and the kindhearted
Vicomte thought it might be for the

young man's benefit that he should have a mentor
at his elbow, so he shook his head.

It is hardly worth while to change places
now,' he said. 'But we are interrupting the
game. Whose deal is it ? '

It is mine, I believe,' answered de Monceaux ;
but I have no confidence in these cards. I propose
that we have fresh ones, and begin over
again.'

So two new packs were brought, and being
dealt round, the lowest card fell to Saint Luc,
who thus became dealer, much to the disgust of
his neighbour.

Is that what you call bad luck ? ' exclaimed
that ill-used person, indignantly. ' I might have
known how it would be ! And now I will lay a
hundred francs to fifty that you win six times,
provided you leave the stake up.'

Saint-Luc took the bet, laid a napoleon on the
table as his stake, and began to deal.

CHAPTER XII.

LANSQUENET.

Most people, probably, are acquainted with the
rules of lansquenet ; but, for the benefit of those
who are not, a short explanation shall be given —
the more willingly as the game is one of an engaging
simplicity. The dealer, after laying down
a stake, the amount of which is left to his option,
turns up the first two cards of the pack, one for
himself and one for the table ; he then proceeds
to deal out the cards till one of the same number
as either of those displayed appears. Should the
table win, he loses his stake and the deal passes ;
but if his own card prove successful, he may either
pocket his winnings and surrender his deal to the
next player, or leave both winnings and stake up,
and continue. The stake may be covered by one
or more of the players, the left-hand neighbour of
the dealer having the first choice. In the present
instance, Leon being seated next to Saint-Luc, at

once covered the modest napoleon staked by his
friend.

Saint-Luc won, and left the two gold pieces on
the table, and L^on once more monopolised the
play. The dealer won again, and again, and yet
again, but at the fifth time the luck turned, and
the young marquis had the satisfaction of receiving
back the scraps of paper on which he had
scribbled the amount of his debts, together with
twenty francs of winnings.

That is not the way to play lansquenet, my
friend,' whispered Saint-Luc ; but Leon, in answer
to the good-natured warning, only slinigged his
shoulders impatiently, and muttered, ' Je sais ce
^i^^ 7'^/a«'S',' which, if true, was a statement little
creditable to his understanding. H^ ]Hit up forty
francs and lost them immediately. Tien, for a
time, he 2;ot no chance of losing or winning, and
sat drumming on the table and fidgeting restlessly
in his chair after the manner of inexperienced
ramblers, who are seldom contented unless they
can be in the thick of the fray.

The o-ame did not at first prove an exciting
one. There were no long deals, very little money
changed hands, and at the end of an hour the
only player upon whom Fortune seemed to have

smiled at all was Saint-Luc, who had a little pile
of gold before him ; whereas Leon, whose few
coins had long since vanished, had sent some three
hundred francs worth of his signatures to different
parts of the table, and was a little inclined to be
querulous over his losses.

Poor Leon had not yet learnt that the first
duty of a gambler is to preserve an aspect of
equanimity, and that though men will bear with
fools, and Avill even show marvellous patience
with rogues, they will not tolerate one who bursts
into lamentations over his bad luck. He offended
in this Away more than once in the course of the
evening, but, perhaps, in consideration of his inexperience,
he might have been allowed to escape
unrebuked, lead he not had the misfortune to fall
foul of M. de Monceaux. That gentleman, who
was no longer in his first youth, and had long
since discovered that the pastimes of this world
are but weariness and vexation of spirit, unless
they can be made to conduce to its comforts, was
accustomed in card-playing, as in all other pursuits,
to regulate his conduct in accordance with
certain well-defined principles. Throughout the
evening he had been playing with more skill
than good fortune, but he serenely bided his time,
VOL. I. T

knowing that to liirn who waits opportunity will
surely arrive. Now it came to pass that Leon, in
pursuance of his absurd system of doubling, had
taken up the whole of the stake during a rather
longer deal than usual. He was some distance
away from the dealer, but none of the intervening
players had cared to interfere with the young
man after the first round, till some eight hundred
francs were on the table. It was then that M. de
Monceaux, having carefully calculated that the
chances were now about ten to one in his favour,
stepped in, and, in the exercise of his undoubted
right as next player to the dealer, covered the
whole sum, won it, and quietly swept it down.

Best trop fort ! ' exclaimed Leon, throwing
himself back in his chair. And indeed it must
be admitted that the incident vas one which
might have tried the patience of many an older
man.

I beg your pardon,' said de Monceaux
suavely, bending forward as he spoke, ' you said
something ? '

Leon frowned, but made no reply.

'Perhaps,' continued de Monceaux, with increasing
politeness, ' M. le Marquis has not often
played this game. Am I wrong in connecting

from his manner that he believes me to have infringed
some rule ? In such a case he would do
well to refer the matter to the committee of the
club. Or if anything in my personal conduct
should have displeased M. le Marquis, nothing
would give me greater pleasure than to '

Nonsense ! ' interposed Saint-Luc hastily.
Nobody is complaining of you, de Monceaux ;
and we are all waiting for you to deal.'

De Monceaux shrugged his shoulders, picked
Up the cards, won three times running, and then
took down his gains.

'I trust M. le Marquis does not object to the
deal passing,' lie remarked, as he handed the
pack to his neighbour.

I object to nothing,' returned Leon, wrathfully
; ' but this I must say '

He was cut short by a smart blow across his
shins. Saint-Luc had opened his long legs like
a pair of scissors and bestowed this gentle correction
impartially on his right hand and on his
left.

Be quiet, Leon,' he muttered ; and then,
turning to de Monceaux, ' Hold your tongue, you
old fire-eater, and don't quarrel with boys. K
you must fight, come out with me to-morroW'

t2

morning, and yon shall see whether I am still as
good a match for you as I used to be with the
foils at Saint-Cyr.'

At this de Nouveaux, who was a good-natured
fellow enough, laughed and said, 'No,
thank you,' and so peace was restored.

Often afterwards Saint-Luc wondered whether
it was destiny or mere absence of mind that led
him to begin his deal by putting up so large a
stake as two hundred francs. He had hitherto
taken little interest in the game, having altogether
failed to find sufficient excitement therein to
divert his thoughts from the channel in which
they had so steadily run of late ; and though the
corporeal presence of the Vicomte de Saint-lAic
had been visible at the card-table, pale, handsome,
imperturbable, staking according to the dictates
of prudence and winning moderately — the man
himself had been wandering sadly enough in
distant places — under the stars at Fort Napoleon,
in the garden of the Campagne de Mersac, through
the empty rooms of his own deserted Norman
chateau — who knows where ? The little dispute
between Leon and de Monceaux had brought him
back to realities for a moment, but now he had
drifted away again, and pushed up the ten gold

pieces mechanically, forgetting, perbiips, that he
was no longer in Paris, but in an Algerian club,
where such sums were more or less of a phenomenon.


Leon immediately covered the stake. The
occurrences of the last five minutes had not tended
to soothe the irritability of that foolish young manor
to bring him to a calmer and Adviser frame of
mind. He was angry with himself, which was
reasonable enough ; he was very angry with de
Monceaux, which was perhaps excusable ; but it
was certainly most unjust of him to be furious
against Saint-Luc, who had just got him out of
an awkward scrape. It must, however, be admitted
that gratitude for such good offices is
seldom forthcoming upon the spur of the moment.
But, lastly, and most foolishly of all, Leon was
indignant with Luck ; and it was with an insane
determination to conquer that pitiless abstraction
that he pushed a slip of paper representing two
hundred francs in front of saint-Luc's ten napoleons,
and lost it Four hundred, then eight
hundred, then sixteen hundred francs went the
some way. Saint-Luc went on dealing, and Leon
set his teeth and continued to stake.

The rest of the players, being thus debarred

from taking any part in the game, looked on with
calmness not unmixed with disgust.

When a man begins his deal by putting up
two hundred francs, it is natural to expect that
the greater part of the company may be able to
secure some interest in the result, or failing that,
that they may at least have the consolation of
witnessing an exciting contest between him and
the adventurous gambler who has chosen to
oppose him alone. But in the present instance
there was no prospect of any such solace. It was
evident enough that Saint-luc did not choose to
win his friend's money ; that he would go on till
he lost ; that the original stake would be the only
sum that would change hands, and that the turning
up of card after card was, therefore, a pure
waste of time.

I will never sit down to a card-table with
that young imbecile again,' muttered de Monceaux
to his neighbour. To which the other replied —

Nor I — unless he likes to play with me
alone.'

Meanwhile Saint-Luc was having a run of good
fortune such as had not been witnessed in that
club for many a long day. Time after time the
dealer's card came up victorious, and some languid

interest began to be manifested in the large
amount of money on the table, which had now
reached no less a sum than fifty thousand francs
odd. The figures might be nearly nominal, still
more than one person present felt a thrill on
seeing before him the palpable result of a two
hundred francs' stake and nine successive wins.
A few bets were exchanged as to how lonc^ the'
luck would hold : and when Leon, with hands
that trembled a little, added another piece of
paper to those already before the dealer, thus
making up a total of over one hundred thousand
francs, there was a general hush and expectancy,
and all eyes were turned upon the dealer.

Saint-Luc, impassive and indifferent, took the
pack in his hand and turned up the first two
cards — two tens. There was a general stir and
hum, and somebody called out —

The dealer takes down half the stakes.'

Not unless he likes, I think,' said Saint-Luc,
looking up. ' I prefer to leave it as it is.'

You have no choice,' said de Monceaux.
We made it a rule here long ago that where two
cards of equal value were turned up, the dealer
must either take down the whole stake and let
the deal pass, or half of it, and continue to deal.'

I never heard of such a rule in Paris,' answered
Saint-Luc, manifestly annoyed.

It is the rule here though,' persisted de Monceaux.
' We had several discussions about the
matter, and we all agreed that it would be more
satisfactory to oblige the dealer to take advantage
of exceptionally favourable circumstances. There
were some people who felt a delicacy — you
understand.'

Of course there was nothing more to be said.
If you play in a club you must conform to its
rules, however absurd. Saint-Luc, With a slightly
clouded brow, withdrew paper to the amount of
fifty one thousand two hundred francs. The like
amount remaining on the table was at once
covered by Leon, whose agitation had now
passed his powers of concealment. Come what
might, he must now lose over two thousand
pounds, and how to raise the money he scarcely
knew.

Saint-Luc turned up the next two cards — two
sevens ! Leon might have used any language he
pleased about his luck now without fear of shocking
anyone's sense of propriety. The sympathies
of the whole company were with him, and found
vent in a subdued murmur which circled round the

table. It was indeed a more cruel blow than any
roan could have anticipated that he should not only
lose his money twice running through an altogether
exceptional coincidence, but that he should lose it
to a man who had plainly shown that he did not
desire to win it. Leon, however, held his peace.
He had defied luck, and had got thoroughly
beaten ; the shock had stunned and sobered him
at the same time. One thing only remained for
him to do. He once more covered the dealer's
stake, and, resting his head on his hand, awaited
the end.

What that end would be no one could doubt.
The appearance of another tie would have been
little short of a miracle ; the dealer had already
won eleven times in succession, and the chances
against his doing so again were almost incalculable.
Moreover, it was quite clear' that he intended
to go on till he should lose. Leon himself
could not but perceive this ; yet his hands grew
cold and his heart thumped as Saint-Luc proceeded
to turn up the cards — a nine for Himself and a
two for this antagonist. With calm, almost cruel,
deliberation, and in a profound silence, the
Vicomte went on through the pack. Ten — king
three — five — would it never come ? Somebody

in the distance slammed a door, and Saint-luc
paused for a moment and looked over his
shoulder. Then he continued as slowly as before.
Eight — six — ace — seven — four — nine ! For the
twelfth time the stake had fallen to the dealer.

And I who never, in the course of a long
and eventful career, have won as much as six
times running ! ' exclaimed de Monceaux, naturally
indignant at such a waste of Fortune's best
gifts. ' Mon cher he added, turning to Saint-luc,
' I propose to you that we. start tomorrow
for Monaco. I will get a week's leave from my
general ; I will watch your play and humbly
follow it, and I will return here rich enough to
offer the best dinner that Algiers can produce to
all the company.'

But Saint-Luc paid no attention to him. He
glanced round the table, looked rather oddly for
an instant at Leon's pale face and flashing eyes,
and then, gathering together the accumulation of
paper before him, delivered up the cards to his
neighbour, remarking calmly, as he leant back in
his chair, ' The deal passes.'

The reader may, perhaps, at some time have
happened to watch two dogs playing at fighting
snapping, snarling, showing glistening fangs,

and rolling one another over in the dust, but all
the time with an evident tacit understanding that
there was no real quarrel between them. And
then he may have seen one of them, with a swift,
sudden change from play into grim earnest, fasten
upon the other and kill him then and there, before
even the poor brute has had time to understand
w^liat is happening to him. Greyhounds, coles,
and other sharp-nosed dogs will do so sometimes.
Anyone who has witnessed such a little tragedy,
and recollects what his feelings were at the time
towards the murderer, may form an idea of the
light in which Saint-Luc's unexpected action
caused him to be regarded by those who sat at the
table with him. No one spoke — indeed, there
was nothing to be said ; what had been done was
strictly in accordance with the rules of the game ;
but there was not a man present dio did not feel
that the poor young marquis had been not only
cruelly treated by his friend, but morally defrauded.
Who could suppose that he would have
gone on staking in the mad way he had done if
he had not shared the general conviction that his
enormous losses were not meant to be serious ?
And the fact that Saint-Luc had actually won
over foi: thousand pounds already made his conduct

the more inexcusable. In the first glow of
their generous sympathy and indignation, these
young fellows would willingly have placed their
purses at the disposition of the victim, though, to
be sure, that would have helped but little, for not
one of them covdd have paid a twentieth part of
what he owed.

Leon, in this trying crisis of his life, bore
himself with a dignity and fortitude which at
once blotted out the memory of his previous
petulance. He rose slowly, and stood for a moment,
resting his hands upon the table and looking
round him. To his dying day Leon will
remember that scene. The great airy room, with
its polished floor and its lace curtains swaying in
the night breeze ; the green card table flooded
with soft light from above, the gold-laced staff-uniforms
and the pale blue jackets of the Chasseurs
d'Afrique, the circle of curious, startled,
upturned faces, de Monceaux frowning a little and
twisting his waxed moustache, Saint-Luc staring
steadily before him, with a countenance devoid
of any expression whatever — all 'these, together
with a dozen other petty details, make up a
picture which Leon can summon up at will, and
which has often revisited him when he would have

been very glad to forget it. He remembers, too,
the odd feeling of unreality which took hold of
him, the half doubt as to his own identity, his
wonder at finding this voice so clear and steady
and milder control.

I think I will go away now,' he said. ' I
have lost a good deal of money — rather more
than I can afford. I shall be able to pay everybody
tomorrow, except M. de Saint-Luc, whom I
shall have to ask for a little time.' In truth the
poor lad hardly knew what he was saying, but felt
only that something must be said, and that he must
not disgrace himself. He paused — then bowing,
added, ' Good-night, messieurs,' and walked across
the room and out of the house.

Those who were left sat in silence till his
echoing footsteps died away in the distance, and
then de Monceaux remarked, ' That youno- man
will go and drown himself.'

Xo, he will not,' answered Saint-Luc, with a
quiet smile. ' He is a brave fellow, and will turnout
well yet.'

Parbleu I^^-if you have left him the means,
he may,' returned de Monceaux, rather roughly,
for he was disgusted at his friend's cynicism.

Saint-Luc turned in his chair, so as to face

the aide-de-camp, and looked him full in the
eyes. ' A little time ago,' he said, ' you were
ready to kill young de Mersac because he did not
seem satisfied with your manner of playing. Do
you want to quarrel with me now for following
your example ? '

I seek no quarrels, and refuse none,' replied
de Monceaux, cully. 'For the moment I am
going home to bed ; I have had enough of play
for one night.' And so saying, he rose, buckled
on his sword, and strode away.

Perhaps he was not sorry to escape without
further words. Had it been a question of challenging
any other man than Saint-Luc, be might
have been less placable, but he knew that he
might as well stand up against a mitrailleuse as
against that notorious duellist. And, after all, it
was not his business to fight other men's battles.
His departure was the signal for a general move,
and presently Saint-Luc found himself the sole
tenant of the club.

Leon, meanwhile, had wandered out into the
street, with no very distinct idea as to where he
was or what he intended to do. After a time he
found himself sitting on one of the benches in
the empty Place du Gouvernement, and, taking

out a pencil and a bit of paper, began to add up
his losses. The calculation did not take long.
To de Monceaux and one or two other players he
owed some small sums amounting in all to something
over fifty pounds, and to Saint-Luc exactly
two hundred and fifty-five thousand eight hundred
francs. For a long time he sat staring
stupidly at the figures, and struggling in vain to
realise the magnitude of the catastrophe that had
occurred ; then, all of a sudden, the true nature
of his position seemed to flash across him with
horrible distinctness. He was very nearly ruined.
Every invested penny he had in the world would
not realise the required amount. He had sold
out a large portion of his patrimony since he had
come of age, acting under good advice in so doing,
and expending the ready money thus acquired in
the purchase of fresh land and in farm improvements.
Within the last few months he had bought
a great many costly agricultural machines, which
would, he was convinced, make him a richer man
in the long run, though it was only too certain
that, if sold at the present time, they would not
fetch half their value. Upon the whole, it would
cost him a great deal more than ten thousand
pounds to pay Saint-Luc. Nor was there anyone

to whom he could apply for temporary aid. The
Duchess had only a life-interest in her income,
M. de Fontvieille had long since sunk his small
fortune in an annuity, and Jeanne's share of her
father's estate was, of course, held in trust for her.
What was to be done ? Leon could see nothing
for it but that lie must sell his house and part of
his lands for what they would fetch, and retire to
that lonely farm on the Metidja plain of which
mention has already been made. Jeanne, he
thought, might live, till her marriage, with the
Duchess, who would now have to seek a new
home. It was all very hard, poor Leon could not
help thinking. A man makes a fool of himself
during one brief half-hour, and is crippled for
the rest of his life. Surely the punishment is out
of all proportion to the offence! And not the
least part of his misery was the anticipation of
the story he Avould have to relate at home in the
course of a few hours. How should he ever bring
himself to tell what must be told ? Could he call
his sister, who had devoted her whole life to him,
and the kindly, worldly, fussy old woman who
had treated him with all a mother's fondness, if not
with quite a mother's discretion, and who had
spoilt, admired, and idolised him from his cradle

could he face them, and say, ' My good people,
I am very sorry, but you will have to leave your
old home, and the familiar rooms, and the garden,
and the orchard, and the woods that you loved,
and look out for some much less spacious habitation.
I lost a small fortune at lansquenet last
night, and now I have got to sell house and land,
and make a fresh start. As for you, you will bea
little pinched ; ycu will have to economise here
and there, and do without some of the small
luxuries which you have come to consider as
necessaries. I shall not be able to live with you
myself '

'My God I I can't do it ! ' broke off poor Leon
aloud.

And then, for a moment, some such thought
as that which had occurred to de Monceaux did
cross his mind. Yonder lay the sea, calm, silent,
and grey with the first glimmer of dawn. It
would be easy enough to take a boat and row out
beyond the breakwater, after sunrise, and bathe.
The best of swimmers may be seized with cramp
there would be no scandal. But here commonsense
stepped in, and pointed out that in this
direction lay no hope of honourable escape. It
was certain that Saint-Luc must be paid ; and

VOL. I. U

Leon even if he avoided the grief and shame of
meeting those dearest to him again, must leave
them, as a legacy, some record of his debt. He
tried to summon up all his courage, and said to
himself that since he was obliged to do what he
would rather die than do, he would at least go
through it without flinching. He would tell his
story in as few words as possible, he thought, and
get it over. There would be no use in weeping,
or execrating his folly, or entreating for pardon.
They would understand better than he could express
to them how miserable he was. Yes, he
would tell Jeanne first and then the Duchess, and
in ten minutes it would all be done. He had
heard of surgical operations which had lasted much
longer than that, and men had lived through
them, and been able to speak of them calmly in
after years. But when he pictured to himself
what would follow — the Duchess's tears and
lamentations, as she made her preparations for
departure — Jeanne moving silently from room to
room, packing and arranging, with a grave, sorrowful
face, worse than any outspoken reproach,
his fortitude gave way, and throwing his arms
over the back of the bench lie hid his face in
them and groaned.

After a time some one came behind him and
touched him gently on the shoulder.

He started up, and saw Saint-Luc.

Oh, is it you, Saint-Luc ? ' said he, in a hurried,
confused manner. ' I will be with you directly.
I must just speak to my sister and the Duchess
it will not take ten minutes — and then I will
come back. I have added up what I owe you,
and it comes to two hundred and fifty-five thousand
eight hundred francs, I think. I shall be
able to pay you before very long ; but you will
understand that it takes a little time.'

Saint-Luc did not reply, but, passing his arm
through Leon's, led him away towards the Hotel
orient. The young man made no resistance
till they had reached the door, then he started
and drew back. ' Where are we ? ' he asked,
pushing his hat back front his forehead. ' This
is your hotel, is it not? I think I must have
fallen asleep. I must be going home now.'

'Not at this hoiu-,' said Saint-Luc, quietly.
It is morning already, and you would disturb
them. You can have the bedroom next to mine,
and if you have anything to say about money
matters, we will discuss it at breakfast. In the

V 2

meantime, the best thing you can do is to take
off your clothes and get to sleep.'

The young man made some faint effort at opposition,
but he was too confused and weary to hold
out long ; and half an hour afterwards he was in
bed, sleeping as soundly as if the events of the
evening had been merely a troubled dream.

Saint-Luc peeped in at him presently through
the half-open door, and then stealing away on
tip-toe to his own window, lighted a cigar and
watched the sun rise from behind the shadowy
Djurdjura range.

CHAPTEE Xin.

LOVE V. Prudence.

Leon's non-appearance at breakfast did not give
rise to any anxiety at the Campagne de Mersac.
In that easy-going household no one was expected
to give an account of him or herself before the
dinner-hour ; and, as for its master, if, as often
happened, business or pleasure took him into the
country for a day or two at a time, it was only
by chance that he gave notice of his intended
absence. Jeanne, therefore, when she heard from
Fanchette that M. le Marquis had not returned on
the previous evening, felt no misgivings as to her
brother's safety, but only some slight disappointment
; for the Duchess, who had aged a good
deal of late, seldom showed herself now before
three o'clock, and eating alone is dull work at the
best of times. Jeanne, who was not of an age or
temperament to care about food for its own sake,
soon disposed of her solitary repast. She took a

book into the dining-room with her, hastily swallowed,
while she read, such amount of sustenance
as seemed necessary to support life, and then
stepped out on to the verandah.

It was a cloudless summer morning ; the town
below was baking and sweltering in the heat, but
here, on the breezy hill top, little pulOfs of cool
wind rose and fell, bending the heads of the roses
and the stiff white lilies, driving the spray of the
fountain across the gravel walks, and rousing a
soft sleepy whispering among the pine branches.
The winter and spring were at an end ; the rains
were done with now till October at earliest, and
soon the long, weary, hot season would set in, and
the grass would grow browner day by day, and
the leaves would wither on the trees, and the
spikes of the aloes blacken and fall, and there
would be no more roses, and every babbling
stream would be silenced. But as yet the woods
and meadows were still of a vivid green, the
garden was ablaze with flowers, many-coloured
butterflies fluttered and poised themselves over
the beds, little bright-eyed lizards darted hither
and thither upon the stone-walls. All nature
was astir and rejoicing in the sunshine and warmth ;
and the heat was not too great for comfort, but

only sufficient to afford a good excuse for idleness.


Jeanne, who was by no means an idle person,
had got through her day's duties long ago. She
had ordered the dinner, added up her accounts,
visited the animals, read aloud to the Duchess for
an hour, and had now earned the right to drop
into a rocking-chair and rest. She swayed gently
to and fro, one foot resting on the ground, and
presently her book slipped from her hand and she
began to dream. Facing her, beyond the glittering
blue bay and the sultry haze of the plain,
rose the distant purple mountains behind whose
shadowy folds and ridges Fort Napoleon lay
hidden. Was M. de Saint-Luc still there ? she
wondered, or was he even now wending his way
homewards, lonely and disconsolate ? Poor M.
de Saint-Luc ! Jeanne had never known how
much she really liked him till she had found herself
obliged to deal him the cruellest blow that a
woman can inflict upon a man. Remembering,
with a pang of conscience, how unjust she had
been to him, how she had snubbed him and tried
to hurt his feelings, and with what quiet patience
he had borne it all, she could almost have found
it in her heart to wish that it had been possible to

her to give him a different answer. But that could
never have been ; and since things were as they
were, how much better it was that he should have
spoken out and heard the truth. She would be
able to treat him as a friend now ; there would be
no more misunderstanding ; and probably he, on
his side, would abstain from uttering those wearisome,
laboured compliments which had sometimes
made his presence positively hateful to her. ' If
he had only known,' thought Jeanne, ' what a
foolish thing flattery is, and how it disgusts all
sensible people ! How different Mr. Barrington
is ! With him one can talk and feel at one's ease ;
he does not sigh and roll his eyes, and nauseate
one with silly speeches.'

But when Jeanne reached this point in her
soliloquy, a slight conscious smile rose to her eyes
and lips, and the faintest flush in the world appeared
upon her cheeks. For the truth was that
Mr. Barrington had spent the greater part of the
preceding day with her, and had said some very
flattering things indeed. But then, to be sure,
they had not been silly — or she had not thought
so. Alas ! one man may steal a horse and another
must not look over a hedge. Who gets justice in
this world? And, for the matter of that, who

wants it? If some people rate us below our
proper value, others, no doubt, think of us more
highly than we deserve ; and were it possible to
strike a balance and induce everybody to view
our failings and merits with the same eyes, all the
sunshine would fade out of life, and a dull business
become duller yet. As for Barrington, he
has been over-estimated on all hands throughout
his life, and will doubtless continue to be so to
the end of the chapter. Here was Mademoiselle
de Mersac, who was worth a thousand of him,
thinking over his wise and witty sayings, dwelling
upon his many accomplishments, mentally recapitulating
the long talks she had had with him
during that Kabyhan excursion and since, and
finding so much pleasure in this employment that
she failed to note the passage of time, and was
quite startled when a clock in the room behind
her struck two. Then, remembering that she had
some work to take to the sisters at the neighbour
ing convent, she rose, with a half sigh, fetched
her hat and a huge white umbrella, and whistling
to Turco, moved slowly away in the hot sunshine.
Five minutes' walk across the dusty high road
and through a corn-field brought her to the vast,
white, dreary building, with its long rows of small

windows and its arched gateway surmounted by
an iron cross. One of the sisters peered at her
through a lattice, and then opened the door and
let her into the cool gloom of the hall. Turco
stretched himself out upon the doorstep, and
panted, and snapped at the flies.

When Jeanne emerged, half an hour afterwards,
and gazed with dazzled eyes into the
blinding glare without, she became aware of
somebody on a chestnut horse who dismounted
as she drew nearer to him, and took off his hat,
exclaiming, ' So you have come at last ! I saw
your dog at the door, and I thought I would wait
for you ; but you were such a long, long time in
appearing that I began to be afraid that you were
not in the convent after all.'

How do you do, Mr. Barrington? ' said Jeanne,
holding out her hand in her grave, composed way.
I am sorry that you waited in the heat.'

Why are you sorry ? For my sake, or for
your own ? If I am a bore, I will go away.'

Oh, no ! ' answered Jeanne, smiling a little.
On the contrary, I am very glad to see you ;
only if I had known you were there, I would
have come out sooner. I was chatting with old
Sister Martha, who is fond of a gossip, and I

always like the convent, it is so quiet and peaceful
there

Isn t it a little like a prison ? ' asked Barrington,
glancing back at the cold, bare structure.
He had passed his arm through his horse's bridle,
and was walking beside Jeanne towards the highroad.


I do not find it so,' she answered. ' Often I
think that I shall end by taking the veil.'

Good gracious, how horrible ! ' exclaimed
Barrington aghast. ' What can have put such an
idea into your head ? You, of all people ! Why,
you would not be able to bear the life for a
week.'

How can you tell that ? ' asked Jeanne,
raising her grave eyes to his for a moment. ' You
have not seen the life, and perhaps you do not
know very well what would suit me. I think I
could be happy enough in a convent ; all the
sisters are contented. I do not speak of the present,
of coiu^e ; I have other things to do — Leon
to look after, and Madame de Breuil. But
changes will come : Leon will marry, and the
Duchess is very old. One must think of the
future sometimes.'

I hope,' said Barrington, ' that the future

has some brighter destiny than that in store flip:
you

She made no reply, and the pair walked on
silently side by side for another hundred yards or
so. Barrington, when he alluded to the possibility
of some bright future destiny for his companion,
had a very distinct idea in his own mind of what
he wished that destiny to be, but he had not yet
quite decided that he would offer it to her. Or
rather, though he believed his decision to be firm,
and, indeed, had declared to himself more than
once during the past four-and-twenty hours that
it was so, he was not quite sure that he would
take the present opportunity of revealing it. He
was generally considered to be an impetuous,
enthusiastic, romantic sort of fellow; but those
who knew him best were aware that his character
contained, by way of counterpoise, a strong underlying
vein of prudence ; and, moreover, that this
prudence had a way of coming forward just in the
nick of time, and had on many occasions snatched
back its favoured possessor from the very brink
of some rash action. He was very much in love
with Jeanne de Mersac — more so, he thought,
than he had ever been with any woman ; but
then he was also very much in love with himself,

and the latter attachment, being of longer standing,
was probably more deeply seated than the
former. He would not, of course, have admitted
this — indeed, he considered himself to be a man
of singularly unselfish proclivities — but he had
always looked upon marriage as a very serious
step indeed, and one not to be taken without much
forethought and deliberation. Without having
given the subject any very profound consideration,
he had nevertheless been, for some years past,
pretty firmly convinced that, when the time should
come for him to take a wife, his wisest course
would be to select a lady for whom he could feel
a sincere respect and esteem without having any
romantic affection for her. The eldest Miss Ashley
might do, or Lady Jane East, or one of the Peterson
girls. Any one of these ladies, and a good
many others too, would, as he was aware, be persuaded
without difficulty to share his humble lot,
and dispense the hospitalities of Broadridge Court.
The very best kind of wife obtainable — so Barrington
had thought — was a woman neither above
nor beneath her husband in rank, neither strikingly
handsome nor absolutely plain, neither too
clever nor too stupid — a woman who would dress
well and manage her household properly, and

keep on good terms with the neighbours, and
raise no objection if her husband proposed to
leave her for a few months at a time while he
sought a relaxation in a yachting or shooting trip.
Such had been his not very lofty ideal, and to it
he had remained faithful through many a desperate
flirtation. And was he now to throw all prudence
to the winds for the sake of this pale, stately girl,
whom he knew to be proud and fond of her own
way, who might not improbably prove exacting,
and who was a Frenchwoman and a Woman
Catholic? He had put this question to himself,
with some anxiety, the night before, and had
finally answered it in the affirmative. True love,
he thought, should be strong enough to survive
sacrifices, and if any such should be called for
from him, was she not worth them ? He would
find an opportunity of seeing her the next day,
and would tell her all. A tinge of uncertainty
as to what her reply might be contributed to
strengthen this heroic determination. And yet,
now that the propitious moment had come, he
found himself doubting, hesitating, weighing the
old pros and cons over again. The upshot of it
all was that when he broke the silence, it was only
to say : —

I suppose you will be at the Governor-general's
ball to-night ? '

Yes, I think so. Madame de Vaublanc has
offered to take me. And you ? '

I shall certainly go if you do.'

Then there was another pause, which lasted
until the gates of the Campagne were reached.

May I come in ? ' asked Barrington. ' I want
to consult your brother about my horse, who has
not been feeding properly for the last day or two.
I fancy the heat affects him.'

The pretext was a sufficiently shallow one, but
it answered its purpose.

Yes, pray do,' answered Jeanne. ' I am not
sure whether Leon is at home, but I will find out.'

She lifted a small silver whistle which she
carried at her belt, and blew a shrill summons
upon it, in answer to which one of the Arab
grooms presently came running out.

Yes,' the man said, in answer to his mistress's
inquiry, 'M. le Marquis had returned, and had
asked for mademoiselle ; but, hearing that she
was out, he had ridden away again.'

I daresay he will be back before long,' Jeanne
remarked. ' Shall we go into the house and wait
for him ? It is too hot to sit out of doors.'

Barrington followed her into the cool, darkened
drawing-room, and, sinking into an easy-chair by
her side, let his eyes roam abstractedly over the
glazed tiles, the Persian rugs, the low divans, the
nooks and recesses which had become so familiar
to him. The piano had been left open, with a
piece of music on the desk ; his own picture of
Jeanne on the balcony stood on an easel in one
corner ; on every table were vases and bowls filled
with roses.

What a charming room this is ! ' he exclaimed.


Yes, it is a nice room,' said Jeanne. Barrington
had made the same remark so many times
before that the subject appeared to her to be
pretty well exhausted.

How commonplace and vulgar English houses
will look to me after this!' he went on. 'My
own drawing-room is tastefully furnished with
white and green-striped satin ; the carpet is white,
with gigantic ferns and cabbage-roses sprawling-over
it, and the paper, which also has a white
ground, exhibits a series of wonderful green birds
sitting in gold cages. I often think it is the most
appallingly hideous room I ever beheld.'

Why do you not refurnish it then ? ' asked
Jeanne, laughing.

I suppose I shall one of these clays. Just
now it would be hardly worth while, for nobody
ever enters it. The rest of the house is well
enough, and I have an affection for the old place,
though it is dreary work living there all alone. I
wonder whether you would like it ? '

Jeanne not feeling herself called upon to
hazard any conjecture as to whether Mr. Barrington's
house were likely to please her or not, he
resumed presently, ' I am sure you would like
the garden. People tell me that the turf at
Broadridge is the oldest in the county, and we
have always been famous for our roses. There
are some fine old trees in the park too. I should
like you to see it all. Isn't there a chance of your
paying your cousins a visit some time or other ? '

'Not very much, I am afraid,' answered
Jeanne. ' They have asked me several times, and
I have always wished to go to England ; but it
is difficult for me to get away, especially in the
summer, for then I go to Switzerland with the
Duchess, and, as Leon does not accompany us, it
would be impossible for me to leave her.'

To Switzerland ? Dear me ! I was thinking
going to Switzerland myself this summer,' said
Barrington, who had not until that moment had
VOL. I. X

any intention of the sort. 'I wonder whether
we are likely to meet.'

Jeanne's face brightened perceptibly. ' I hope
we may,' she replied cordially. ' Shall you be
there in August, do you think ? Apropos when
do you go back to England ? '

'I am not sure that I shall go back at all,'
answered Barrington slowly. * I hate London,
and I don't want to go home. Why should I not
stay here, and start when you do ? Perhaps I
might be of some service to you on the journey.'

Oh, how delightful that would be ! ' exclaimed
Jeanne, half involuntarily, clasping her hands.

And then Barrington suddenly lost his head.
He saw that perfect pale face bent towards him,
with parted lips and soft brown eyes with a glad
light in them ; he saw a blue dress upon-which a
stray shaft of sunlight fell, and a glittering silver
necklace and a pair of joined hands, and he forgot
everything except that he was alone with Jeanne,
and that he loved her better than the whole
world. Good-bye, caution ! Good-bye, prudence
and hesitation and cold common sense ! He
caught her hands in his, stammering in his eagerness,
' Would it be delightful ? Would you think
it delightful?'

She drew back with a troubled, startled look.

What do you mean ? ' she murmured. ' I — I do
not understand '

Don't you understand that, if you will only
speak one word, I will never leave you again ?
Don't you understand '

At this most interesting and critical juncture
a tap upon the tiles and the sound of an opening
door caused the speaker to break off abruptly.
He wheeled round just in time to see the Duchess
de Breuil make her entrance, leaning upon her
stick.

Happily, the old lady's powers both of hearing
and vision had become a good deal impaired of
late ; otherwise she could scarcely have failed to
remark the agitation of the couple whose tete-tete
she had so inopportunely disturbed. As it
was, she noticed nothing, and sank back into her
chair with some amiable expressions of the pleasure
that it gave her to find ]mr. Barrington in the
room. She had taken a fancy to the Englishman,
whom she had discovered to be not only a fair
French scholar and a man of the world, but, what
was better still, a patient listener ; and, as she was
in a good humour that afternoon, and felt garrulously
disposed, she graciously made a sign to him
to take a chair by her side, and began to talk

X 2

politics. ' She had been reading the newspapers
upstairs, she said, and from what she had been
able to gather, it appeared to her that a crisis was
imminent in France. That poor M. Bonaparte,
with his plebiscites and his Olivier, his caricatures
of constitutional government, his failing
health, and his disreputable relations, who carried
revolvers in their pockets and murdered casual
visitors, was evidently near the term of his rule.
They have begun to laugh at him already,' said
the old lady, nodding her head sagaciously ; ' and
believe me, monsieur, when a man is laughed at
in France it is time for him to pack up his trunks.
You will see that before long we shall have a Need
Eepublic ; and when that has lasted a few months,
the nation will return to its allegiance, and the
king will ascend the throne of his fathers at last.
Ah, I am an old woman, monsieur, and I have
seen many things, and I know what my compatriots
are. There was a time when I myself had
some influence over the course of politics ; but
that is long ago, and everybody has forgotten all
about it now. M. de Talleyrand, who scarcely
ever missed one of my Thursdays, used to say
that my salon was the only one in Paris in which
he could count upon meeting everybody whom he
wanted to see. That was when we lived in the

Rue Saint-Dominique, and my poor husband was
Garde des Sceaux.' And so forth, and so forth.

Barrington bore it all with exemplary patience.
A very small proportion of the Duchess's recollections
reached his understanding ; but he continued
to look as if he were all attention, and, while he
encouraged her to prattle on, stole occasional furtive
glances at Jeanne, who was sitting a little
apart, her hands loosely clasped on her lap, and a
little bewilderment still visible in her face, but
withal a certain soft joyousness which lent a new
and wondrous charm to her beauty, and caused
the heart of her wooer to beat high with happiness
and hope.

He rose to go at length, and, as he bade her
good-bye, held her hand a little longer than he
need have done, and whispered, ' Till to-night,
then.'

She said nothing, but raised her eyes to his
for a moment, and dropped them again. And
then he knew that he had got his answer.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

SpotUstccode <t Co., Printers, Sec-street Square, London,

Under the Sanction of HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN.
In the press, demy 8vo. with 3 Portraits, a Facsimile, and Index, iSj.
THE FIFTH AND LAST VOLUME OF THE

LIFE OF HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE Price CONSORT.

By THEODORE MARTIN.

LIFE OF LIEUT-gen. SIR JAMES Outran.

By Major-Gen. Sir FREDERIC J. Goldsmith, Cab., K.C.S.I.

2 vols, demy 8vo. [/« the press.

THE CRIMINAL CODE OF THE JEWS. (According

to the Talmud.) Massecheth Sanhedrin. Reprinted from the Pall Mall
Gaz^^/f, With Additions. By Philip B. Benny. Crown 8vo. i^s. (>d.

THE AMATEUR POACHER. By the Author of The
Gamekeeper at Home,' 'Wild Life in a Southern County.' Crown 8vo. 5^.

A RULE OF PROPORTION FOR THE HUMAN

FIGURE. By John Marshall, F.R.S., F.R.C.S., Professor of Anatomy,
Royal Academy of Arts. Illustrated by John S. Cuthbert. Folio, in
\\Tapper, 8j. ; in portfolio, gj.

COLLECTED VERSES. By Violet Fane, Author of

The Queen of the Fairies,' ' Denzil Place,' ' Anthony Barrington,* &c.
Crown 8vo. 55.

THE POETRY OF ASTRONOMY. By Richard A.

Proctor, Author of 'The Borderland of Science,' 'Science Byways,' &c. &c.
Crown 8vo. \ Shortly.

NOVEL BY THE AUTHOR OF 'THE GAMEKEEPER AT HOME.'

GREENE Ferns FARM.

By RICHARD JEFFERIES,
Author of ' The Gamekeeper at Home,' ' Wild Life in a Southern County,' ' The
Amateur Poacher.' Crown 8vo. 7.^. 6</. [Now ready.

NOVEL BY A NEW WRITER.

MARY BROVVTNE.

By L. E. WILTON.

3 vols. [Shortly.

NEW NOVEL BY HOLME LEE.

MRS. DENYS OF COTE. By Holme Lee, Author of

Sylvan Holt's Daughter.' 3 vols. [Ready.

NEW NOVEL BY THE AUTHOR OF 'THE ROSE GARDEN.'
THE WHITE MONTH. By the Author of 'The Rose
Garden,' 'Unawares.' Crown 8vo. [Shortly.

MARTHA AND MARY. 2 vols. [impress.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

OF

THE COMPLETE WORKS OF W. M. THACKERAY.

In Twenty-four "Volumes, crown 8vo. price 3s. 6d. each ;

Or in Sets of Twenty-four Volumes, handsomely bound in half-morocco,

price £S.

Containing nearly all the small Woodcut Illustrations of the fmnnvr
Editions

And many New Illustrations by Eminent Artists,
this edition contains altogether 1,626 illustrations.

BY

Thk Author,

liUKK FlLDKS, A.R.A.

Mrs. Btjtlku (Miss Elizabeth

Thompson).
Gkoiiom du Maturer.
Richard Doyle.
Fi! K dp; RICK Walkku. A.R.A.
George Cuuikshank.

John Leech.
Frank Dickson.

LiNLEY SAMUODRNE.

F. Barnard.

E. J. Wheeler.

F. A. Eraser.
Charles Keene.
R. B. Wallace.

&c. &c. &c.

J. P. Atkinson.
w. J. Webb.
T. R. Macquoid.
M. Fitzgerald.
W. Ralston.
John Collier,
h. furnish.

G, G. KiLBURNH.

VANITY FAIR. Illustrated by the Author. 2 vols.

PENDENNIS. Illustrated by the Author. 2 vols.

THE Newcome. Illustrated by Richard Dote. 2 vols.

ESMOND. Illustrated by George du M aurier.

THE VIRGINIANS. Illustrated by the Author. 2 vols.

THE ADVENTURES OF PHILIP. Illustrated by the Author, Frederick
Walker, and R. B. Wallace. 2 vols.

THE GREAT Hogarth DIAMOND; A LITTLE DINNER AT TIM-mines
; Cornwall TO CAIRO. Illustrated by the Author, J. P. Atkinson, and
W.J.Webb.

THE BOOK OF SNOBS; TRAVELS AND SKETCHES. Illustrated by the
Author.

CHRISTMAS BOOKS. Illustrated by the Author and Richard Doyle.

BURLESQUES. Illustrated by the Author and George Cruikshank.

PARIS SKETCH BOOK; LITTLE TRAVELS ; and ROADSIDE SKETCHES.
Illustrated by the Author. T. R. Macquoid, and J. P. Atkinson.

THE Yellowish PAPERS; THE FITZBOODLE PAPERS; COX'S
DIARY ; CHARACTER SKETCHES. Illustrated by the Author and George
Cruikshank.

THE IRISH SKETCH BOOK ; CRITICAL REVIEWS. Illustrated by the
Author, George Cruikshank, John Leech, and M. Fitzgerald.

THE MEMOIRS OF BARRY LYNDON ; THE FATAL BOOTS. Illustrated
by J. E. Millais. R.A., George Cruikshank, and W. Ralston.

CATHERINE: a Story; MEN'S WIVES; THE BEDFORD ROW Conspiracy.
Illustrated by the Author, Luke Files, A.R.A., and R. B. WALLACE.

BALLADS : THE ROSE AND THE RING. Illustrated by the Author, Mrs.
Butlkk (Miss Elizabeth Thompson), George du Mauuikb, John Collier, H.

Furnish, G. G. KILBURNE, M. FITZGERALD, and J. P. ATKINSON.

ROUNDABOUT PAPERS. To which is added THE SECOND FUNERAL
OF NAPOLEON. Illustrated bytheAuthor,CHARLEsKEENE,andM. Fitzgerald.

THE FOUR GEORGES, and THE ENGLISH Humorist OF
THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY. Illustrated by the Author, Frank Dickson.

LiNLEY Tambourine, FREDERICK WALKER, and F. BARNARD,

LOVEL THE WIDOWER; THE WOLVES AND THE LAMB; DENIS
Ducal. To which is ndrtcrt an Ersqv on the Writincr'^ of W. M. Thackeray by Leslth
Stephen. Illustrated by the Author and Frederick Walker.

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

K.

J)EjY(Br|^A(?.

?V

jlOTHOf^ OP

JtIbkp^-ofXoKey

X*^

i
k

mis

Colonel Alfred Qap^l Qur^,

OF THE

U N Diversity

Of ILLINOIS



BY

W. E. Norris

Author OF 'HEAPS OF Money

IN Three VOLUMES

VOL. II.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[All rights reserved]

in 2009 within funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/mademoiselledeme02norr

CONTENTS

OP

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER Xii.

Fags

M. DE Saint-Luc shows himself in his True Colours 1

CHAPTER XV.
The Beginning of Trouble 21

CHAPTER XVI.
Madame de Vaublanc stirs up Evil Passions . . 37

CHAPTER XVII.
In which M. de Fontvieille tells an Old Story . 63

CHAPTER Xvii.

In which M. de Saint-Luc hears of Something to

his Advantage 93

CHAPTER XIX.

Park

Jeanne quarrels with Fanchette, and Leon sings

THE 'Marseillaise* 116

CHAPTER XX.
On the Road to La Trappe 141

CHAPTER XXL
An Unromantic Parting . . . . .166

CHAPTER Xxii
That Imbecile of an Emperor ' . . . . 197

CHAPTER XXIII.

In which Leon asserts his Independence . . 218

CHAPTER XXIV.
Changes , . . 236

CHAPTER XXV.

In which Leon plays the Part of Bayard to a

Limited Audience 255

CHAPTER XXVI.
The Last Evening 270

CHAPTEE XIV.

M. DE Saint-LUC SHOWS HIMSELF IN HIS True
COLOURS.

Everybody knows what it is to wake gasping,
trembling, shuddering out of some gruesome
dream — to feel even yet the tearing claws and
fangs of an imaginary tiger, or the tremendous
shock of a fancied railway collision. Gradually
very gradually — the mind of the sufferer shakes
itself free from the hold of the dread vision. He
rolls his eyes round the familiar walls of his room,
and thankfully perceives that he is still there, and
not in a Newgate cell after conviction of forgery.
He feels for his right leg, and discovers that those
two bloodthirsty surgeons who, a moment since,
were slicing and sawing it off, existed only in a
disordered imagination. He realises, with a deep

VOL. II. B

sigh of relief, that he did not marry hideous old
Mrs. Mone5rpenny yesterday morning for the sake
of her wealth ; nor hear of the collapse of the undertaking
in which his whole fortune was involved.
Nevertheless, some shadow of the grim horror will
hang over him yet for an hour or two, vexing him
with a vague uneasiness, and, it is to be hoped,
impressing him with an increased appreciation of
the virtue of abstemiousness. But if such waking
sensations be unpleasant enough, how far more
terrible is their converse ! Calm, peaceful night
steals away, bright morning comes with sunshine
and stir and sound of voices, and behold ! health,
Wealth, contentment are but rapidly evaporating
visions, and it is the nightmare that is the reality !
Alas ! it is true that you are a convicted criminal
Messrs. Brown, Jones, andEobinson did emi up
their shutters yesterday morning, sure enough —
What is that, brown, fuzzy object on the dressing-table
? Can it be an old woman's wig ? Oh,
horror, horror! What is done is done, and can
never be obliterated in scecida scecidorum.

Poor Leon de Mersac, starting out of a deep,
dreamless slumber, to find himself in a strange
]room, and striving to recollect where he was and
how he had come there, felt his heart die within

him as the events of the past night slowly returned
to his memory. His first impulse was to pop) his
head under the bed-clothes, and to make a despairing
effort to get back into oblivion ; but he
very soon found that that would not do. Who
can fight against patient, inexorable fate? The
silly ostrich hides his head in the sand, and falls a
prey to the hunter ; the little diver-duck bobs
under water, time after time, to escape from the
gun-barrel that is aimed at him, but gets shot in
the long run ; and Leon, coming up to the surface
at length, with a groan, had to confront a
neat little column of figures terminating in an imposing
total of fr. 255,800.

A knock at the door roused him from his
woebegone contemplation of this tangible evidence
of calamity, and presently in stepped Saint-Luc's
valet, a dapper, smooth-shaven, soft-footed little
fellow, with twinkling black eyes and a perpetual
smile upon his thin hips. Was M. le Marquis
sufficiently reposed? he inquired in his pretty
mincing Parisian French. He had been in once —
twice before vnih coffee, but M. le Marquis was
so profoundly asleep that he had not ventured to
disturb him ; and now it was already past ten
o'clock, and M. le Yicomte had sent him to ask

B 2

whether M. le Marquis would be ready for dejeuner
in an hour's time. Then, having arranged
upon the toilet-table and the sofa sundry articles
which he had brought with him — brushes, razors,
a clean shirt, and other necessaries — he requested
M. le Marquis, in case he should require anything
further, to give himself the trouble to touch the
bell, and noiselessly withdrew.

With a heart as heavy as lead, Leon got up
and dressed himself ' I wonder Saint-Luc is not
afraid to trust me with a razor,' he thought, smiling
grimly as he took up that implement. He
did not, however, allow his mind to dwell upon
self-destruction, having finally disposed of that
question overnight, but shaved himself with a
tolerably steady hand ; and, as soon as his toilet
was completed, crossed the passage and entered
his friend's sitting-room.

A pleasant rush of light and colour, and a
fragrant scent of flowers and fruit, met him on
the threshold. Beyond the wide-open French
windows was a balcony, whose fluttering striped
awning, while it shut out the full glare of the sun,
did not exclude a glimpse of blue sparkling sea
and snowy distant sails. On a breakfast-table,
prepared for two persons, were arranged vases of

flowers and dishes piled up with oranges, grapes,
bananas, and pomegranates ; the silvered necks of
two bottles of champagne protruded from their
ice-pails ; and there, reclining in a camp-chair,
was Saint-Luc himself, gorgeous in a crimson silk
dressing-jacket, and perusing, with tranquil contentment,
one of a batch of newspapers just arrived
from France.

The sight of all this bright cheerfulness smote
the incomer with a sensation of incongruity not
unmixed with injury. He had hitherto been so
completely occupied with efforts to realise and
meet the catastrophe that had befallen him, that
he had hardly found room in his mind for any
feeling of resentment against the man who had,
in so unaccountable a manner, been its cause ;
but now he did begin to wonder, with a certain
dull pain, why he should have been treated with
such deliberate cruelty. ' To win a small fortune
of your friend is allowable, and only the way of
the world, I suppose,' reflected this unfortunate
young philosopher, ' but steely it is scarcely
good taste to invite him to make merry over his
own ruin.'

Saint-luc tossed away the Figaro and held
out his hand. ' So here you are at last, you lazy

fellow,' lie cried in the most liglit-heartecl manner
in the world. ' And how are you this morning ?
the better for your long sleep ? '

Leon, with a face as long as his arm, replied
very solemnly that he was well enough.

Allons ! so much the better ! And I hope
you have a good appetite. For my part, I am
ravenous — nothing makes me so hungry as a
sleepless night. Do you like fresh sardines and
crevices ? I have ordered some. I don't know
what the rest of the menu is, but I told them to
put some quails in it. One does not always dine
well in this country, but, heaven be praised, one
can generally count upon a very tolerable breakfast.'


I can't say I feel much disposed to eat,' answered
Leon, with a growing sense of ill-usage.
The truth is that I am in great trouble about
my losses last night ; and my only reason for
remaining here was that I must have a talk with

you '

Ah, bah ! ' interrupted the other ; ' let us
leave all that till after breakfast ; there is no necessity
for worrying ourselves about it now. And of
course you know that I am not likely to press you
for payment. Besides, such luck as you had last

night must change before long. Very likely
another evening at lansquenet may leave me in
your debt.*

Leon shook his head. * I have made up my
mind,' he said, ' that I will never play for money
again so long as I live."

'Eeally?' said Saint-luc, looking at him
curiously. ' And you imagine that you ami keep
that resolution ? '

'I must do so,' answered Leon, simply. -I
have sworn it.'

Ah ! Well, I think you are right. But it ia
pity that men invariably take these oaths at the
wrong moment. It is after winning, not after losing,
that one should bid adieu to the gaming-table.'

Then the waiter came in with a tray full of
good things on his shoulder ; and for the next
three-quarters of an hour the conversation turned
upon all manner of topics save the one which
must, all the time, have been present m the minds
of both entertainer and guest. Saint-Luc did
most of the talking, and did it well, exerting himself
to interest and amuse his hearer, and meeting
with some measure of success, though the latter
felt more and more, every minute, the singular
lack of sympathy shown towards him, and had

to summon up a large reserve-fund of pride to
cover this mortification. But when black coffee
and cigarettes had succeeded to dessert, Leon
thought he might, without impropriety, discharge
himself of his unpalatable task.

About that money I owe you, Saint-Luc,' he
began.

The vicomte blew a cloud of smoke, and nodded
to signify that he was attending.

I can pay you a part of it almost immediately ;
for the rest I must ask you to wait a few months,
or perhaps longer. I need not trouble you with
details ; but when I tell you that I shall have to
find a new home for Madame de Breuil and
Jeanne, you will understand how painful any
hurry would be to me.'

You don't mean to say that you think of
selling the Campagne ! ' exclaimed Saint-Luc.

Unfortunately I have no choice.'

And the farm too ? '

A part of it, certainly. Why, what else can
I do ? ' cried Leon, with some impatience. ' Do
you suppose I have 250,000 francs at the bank? '

Is it really so large a sum as that ? '

If you will look at the different acknowledgments
I handed to you last night,' answered Leon,

with suppressed exasperation, ' you will find diet
I am in your debt to the amount of exactly
255,800 francs.' ^

Saint-Luc, in a leisurely manner, drew forth
from his waistcoat-pocket a roll of crumpled
papers, spread them on the table before him, and
made a calculation with the aid of a pencil and
pocket-book. ' Quite right,' he said at length.
That is the exact amount I took down after an
original stake of ten napoleons. It certainly was a
wonderful run.'

I suppose so.'

Wonderful ! I can't at this moment call to
mind having seen such another. Of course you
pay me when and where you please. In the
meantime, I suppose you fully understand that
these slips of paper are virtually money — money
paid by you to me.'

Undoubtedly,' answered Leon, with a gathering
frown on his brow which altogether failed to
disturb his companion's equilibrium.

So that to all intents and purposes I may now
consider myself in possession of 255,800 francs,
to do what I like with. Now there are many
ways,' continued Saint-Luc, stretching himself
out comfortably in his chair, ' of spending money

won at cards. Looking back upon the rare occasions
in my past life when I have netted large
Slime in this way, I find that my invariable custom
has been to throw them out of the window, so to
speak, with all possible despatch. I have never
failed to repent of so doing, and have always, I
believe, declared that nothing would induce me
to make such a fool of myself again. In the present
instance, however, I do not intend to depart from
my usual course. I propose to send your money
out of the window much more quickly than I
ever sent any money before ; and I anticipate
nothing but satisfaction from the process.'

And suiting the action to the word, Saint-Luc
hastily tore up the sheaf of papers which he held,
and stepping out on to the balcony, scattered the
fragments to the four winds.

Then he returned, threw himself into his chair
again, and burst out laughing.

Confess, now,' he said, ' you have been thinking
all this time that you were breakfasting with
a card-sharper, have you not ? What an opinion
you must have had of me to believe that I was
going to ruin you and turn your sister out of
doors ! Why, my dear boy, I did not want to win
even so much as two hundred francs of your

money. I put up that stake — why, I don't quite
know — intending, if I won, to let you go on
doubling till it fell into your hands. Then came
those confounded even cards and their absurd
rule, which put me out a good deal. I could see
nothing for it but to persevere till I lost ; but I
was uneasy, for I saw that you had completely
lost your head (you may perhaps remember that
I warned you beforehand that you would do so),
and it was evident to me that you would continue
to play like a lunatic as long as you could get
anyone to play with you. Then it occurred tome
that if I could give you a sudden overwhelming
shock, it would bring you to your senses, send
you straight home, and make you swear never to
touch a card again. The event, you see, completely
justified my forecast. My only fear was
that you might have enough of common sense to
perceive that no gentleman could by any possibility
act as I appeared to be doing. But that, it
seems, was a groundless alarm. You must forgive
me for having frightened you out of your wits ;
and some day you will, no doubt, even thank me ;
for I presume that a man of your simple habits
considers an oath as binding, and that you have
played your last game at lansquenet.'

Leon sat with his jaws agape, looking, if the
truth must be told, a very considerable fool. His
first sensation, on seeing those accursed papers
fluttering gaily away on the summer breeze, had
been one of intense relief, tempered by wonder
and doubt. Then for a few moments gratitude
had overpowered all other feelings. But finally,
emotion becoming subdued by reason, all light
and gladness faded out of his face, giving way to
the black clouds of care which they had momentarily
dispersed.

You are very kind to me, Saint-Luc,' he said
slowly, at length — ' at all events you have meant
to be so. But unfortunately it is impossible that
I should take advantage of kindness of that
sort. Your having torn up a few bits of paper
cannot alter the fact that I owe you 255,800
francs.'

Bah ! You never owed me anything of the
sort. For my own purposes I chose to make you
think that you did — Voila tout I '

I lost the money fairly, and T will pay it
fairly,' answered Leon, doggedly.

My good friend, you have paid me already.
A tradesman sends you in his bill, and gives you
a receipt in return for your cheque. If it pleases

him to light his pipe with that cheque, what
business is it of yours ? '

In such a case I should of course pay him
again, and take care that he had ready-money the
second time.'

And if he threw the money into the sea ? '

'Ah, that would be his affair. I, at least,
should have discharged my debt. When I shall
have handed you what I owe you, you will be at
liberty to do what you please with your own.'

Leon, you irritate me ; and in this hot
weather I am not to be irritated with impunity.
Have the goodness to understand, once for all,
that what took place last night was a farce from
beginning to end ; that I never had the most
distant intention of winning your money — have
none now — nor ever shall have any. In short, I
will not take a single sou from you ; and that is
my last word.'

Leon shook his head.

You forget,' said he, ' that others were playing
with us, and saw me lose. What would they
think if they heard that I had not paid my
debt ? '

Who cares what they think .^ '

You may not, but I do. I could not submit

to be called a defaulter — nor indeed to be one.
It is useless to argue about the matter. I have
not your experience of the Avorld, but I do know-that
every ]nan who respects himself and wishes
to be respected is boimd by certain conventional
laws, which may be absurd, but which are universally
recognised. You may sacrifice your prospects,
or your happiness, or even your life for a
friend, but you must not give him money. And
you know it as well as I do.'

I don't know anything of the kind,' returned
Saint-Luc. ' I have given money to many a friend
before now — or at least lent it, which is another
Away of saying the same thing. But that is not
the question. Will you not see, oh, you most
pig-headed boy, that I never really won your
money at all ? '

Ask M. de Monceaux whether you did not,
and see what he will say.'

I shall not ask him, and I don't care a rush
what his answer might be if I did ; but this I can
tell you, if de Monceaux were in your place he
would not think for a moment of paying me after
hearing my explanation of my reasons for acting
as I did.'

'Would he not? I am not very well acquainted

with M. de Monceaiix, but possibly in
our family we may have a different standard of
honour from his. I know my father would sooner
have sold his coat than remain in any man's debt ;
and I also have to remember that I am a de
Mersac, and must think of the reputation of my
family as well as of my own.'

Leon was a little bombastic, but he was not
altogether in the wrong. It began to dawn upon
Saint-Luc that, with the best intentions in the
world, he had done a very foolish thing. - Never,
so long as I live,' he exclaimed, ' will I attempt
to save a young idiot from the consequences of
his idiocy again ! I sit up all night over a game
of cards which I hate, with a set of men who bore
me to death ; I play in such a manner as to bringdown
upon my head the scorn and indignation of
the meanest of them ; and what is the result y
Wliy, people who are not only innocent of all
share in the transaction, but happen to be the
very ones whom of all the world I most desire to
serve, are plunged into misers and will hate the
sound of my name for ever ; and the very man
for whose sake I incur all this obloquy declares
his intention of ruining himself ten times more
completely than he would have done if I had left

him alone. For heaven's sake, Leon, listen to
reason, and don't drive me out of my senses.'

Leon, however, defined to be persuaded.
Neither eloquence, nor patient demonstration, nor
entreaty availed to shake his stubborn resolution ;
nor, in the midst of all his own sorrow, was he
free from a certain grim satisfaction at the spectacle
of his mentor's distress. ' You meant very
kindly, I know,' he said more than once ; ' but
you have made a most unlucky mistake, and
neither of us can repair it now.'

Tired out at length, Saint-Luc desisted from
further words and began to search in his brain
for some expedient whereby the scruples of his
debtor might be satisfied without any actual
transfer of cash.

I think,' he said hesitatingly, after a rather
long silence — ' I think I can see one way out of
the difficulty.'

And that is ? ' said Leon, with the air of one
open to conviction, but very unlikely to be convinced.


You said just now that a man cannot take a
present of money from a friend — not that I ever
proposed to make you such a present; but let
that pass. One thing, however, you must admit ;

anybody may accept money from this nearest relations,
and I think you could hardly refuse the
sum in question if it were offered to you by —
your sister.'

Quite out of the question,' answered Leon.
'Even supposing that I were enough of a scoundrel
to rob Jeanne of her fortune, I could not do
so. It is held in trust for her till her marriage.'

Yes ; but upon her marriage I have heard —
I understood,' said Saint-Luc, a little confusedly —
that is, Madame la Duchesse told me, one day,
that it would become her absolute property.'

That is so certainly, but '

Just allow me to finish what I was going to
say. You know what my wishes have been, and
are, with regard to your sister, and lately you
have encouraged me to hope that, in spite of all
that has passed, there might still be a chance forme.
Well, supposing that I have the great good
fortune to succeed, what I would propose to you
is this. Let your sister, on her wedding-day,
pay you 255,800 francs (a sum which is, Behave,
more than covered by her dowry). You will then
pass the money on to me, and all will be said and
done. I don't see what objection you can make
to such an arrangement. You must remember

VOL. II. c

that, in suggesting it to you, I am thinking of her
comfort as much as of yours, and that if you
agree to it, you will spare her and Madame de
Breuil an amount of unhappiness which, in my
ennoble opinion, you have no right to inflict upon
them.'

Leon hesitated. Providence did, indeed, appear
to offer to him, by this means, an honourable
and easy road out of his troubles. There was
something about Saint-Luc's proposal which vas
not altogether agreeable to him, and yet when he
thought of Jeanne and the Duchess, it seemed to
him that he would hardly be justified in rejecting
it. One drawback, however, there manifestly
was.

But, Saint-Luc,' he said, ' if I agree to this you
would lose 255,800 francs.'

I should lose nothing. You would pay me ;
and your sister — by a sort of fiction — would come
to me with a diminished dower, that is all. Come,
Leon, let us consider the matter settled, and say
no more about it. It has given us both a great
deal of needless worry as it is.'

Well, but then there is another thing to be
considered. I can't answer for Jeanne ; she may
refuse you a second time. What is to be done in
that case ? '

Li that case — iu that case — oh, well, we
need not think about that now

But we must think about it. I am not sure
that 1 am right in allowing you to cancel my debt
at all, but I am quite certain that the thing can
only be done by Jeanne's becoming your wife.
Her refusal of your offer would leave us just
where Ave were before.'

'Leon, you are, without any exception, the
most disagreeable young man I ever encountered.
I will bet you 255,800 francs to ten centimes that
I marry your sister. There ! '

I should not think of making a bet upon such
a subject,' answered the impracticable Leon.

Then Saint-Luc collected all the sofa-cushions
and footstools her coidd lay hands on, and hurled
them, one by one, at the head of his friend. A
shower of crusts of bread, lumps of sugar and
biscuits, followed in the same direction, and took
such effect that Leon, half-laughing, half-indignant,
was fain to seek shelter under the table. He
bobbed up his head when the fire of projectiles
had ceased, and exclaimed remonstratingly,
Saint-Luc, this is a serious matter.'

It will be for you presently, I can assure
you. There only remains to me now a cut-glass

c 2

sugar-basin, and at the very first word you utter
having any reference to money matters, you get
that basin full on the bridge of your nose. So
now you are warned ; and you had better go
home as quick as you can. As for me, I am going
out for a ride.' And with that, Saint-Luc vanished
into his bedroom, locking the door behind him.

Leon waited for a quarter of an hoi*, then
knocked at the door, and, receiving no answer,
went out into the passage to see if he could effect
an entrance from that side. Saint-Luc's bedroom
was occupied by a couple of housemaids, who
were raising a cloud of dust from the carpet ; the
owner had fled. Under the circumstances it seemed
best to Leon to return to the sitting-room and
write on a sheet of paper :

I agree to what you propose. Only, if you
fail, you will understand that I still owe you the
money. You will have to wait a little longer for
it ; but perhaps it is best so.'

This brief missive he folded and addressed, and
then set out homewards, greatly relieved in mind,
yet somewhat uneasy as to the future.

CHAPTEE XV.

THE Beginning OF TROUBLE.

As Mr. Barrington was leaving the Campagne de
Mersac by one door, after bidding adieu to this
hostess in the manner already described, M. de
Fontvieille was entering it through another. This
was a very fortunate circumstance for Jeanne,
since it gave her, ere long, an opportunity of
shipping quietly out of the room and seeking that
solitude which just then was her chief desire.
M. de Fontvieille had brought with him a copy of
Eochefort's new paper, the Marseillaise, and the
two old folks were soon so fully occupied in perusing
the elegant personalities of that gentlemanly
print that they scarcely noticed Jeanne's exit.

She strolled away through the orchard at the
back of the house, and thence through orange and
lemon groves, where starry blossoms mingled with
the ripe golden fruit, till she came to a low
boundary wall, beyond which stretched waving

corn-fields, ending in a waste of palmetto-shrub
and barren upland ; and there, perched upon a
broad, flat stone, with her back against the trunk
of a thick leaved carob-tree, gave herself up to
the unrestrained enjoyment of her newly-found
happiness. Until that moment she lead never said
to herself in so many words that lie loved Barrington
; yet it had been so for some time past ;
;md now that he had given her a right to interrogate
her heart without shame, it seemed to her
that she had loved him, and he her, from the first
day of their meeting, and that his interrupted
avowal was but the formal acknowledgment of a
fact long since recognised by both of them. The
difficulties which would have to be conquered
before she could become Barrington's wife did not,
at this moment, cause her any anxiety, though, if
she had given the subject a thought, she must
have perceived that these were likely to be formidable
enough. The strenuous opposition of M.
de Fontvieille and the Duchess ; banishment from
Algeria and from Leon ; the serious disadvantages
attendant upon the marriage between a Catholic
and a Protestant — these were some among the
obstacles which she must ere long ftice, and, if
possible, surmount ; but, in this first glow of joy,

she was able to keep such considerations out of
sight, and dwell only on the one triumphant
thought that she was loved. 'He loves me I he
loves me ! ' she murmured to herself assail and
again — ' and I — oh, how I love him ! '

The loitering summer wind caught up this
precious secret, whispered it to the swaying
branches, which answered with a sigh, and bore
it away seawards towards the town, where Barrington
was even now sitting, With a half-pleased,
half-puzzled face, saying to himself, ' So I have
done it at last — that is, pretty nearly done it. I
shall meet her at the ball to-night, and then it
will be all over. I think I am glad — I am sure
I am glad — of course I am glad — I could not hive
without her — and yet — ' Barrington had been in
love, and out of love again, many, many times,
whereas Jeanne's heart had remained untouched
by any suitor till this Englishman had come and
captured it almost without an effort. The one
absorbing passion of her life had been her devotion
to her brother. Since her father's death she
had given herself up so completely to him that
there had been no more room left in her nature
for any warmer affection than a moderate liking
for the rest of the world. And now, was his place

to be taken by a stranger? This question was
forced upon her rather abruptly by the sudden
appearance of Leon at her elbow ; and it was
perhaps a twinge of self-reproach that made her
embrace him more affectionately than usual, as
she exclaimed —

Leon, how you startled me ! Did you rise
from the earth or fall from the clouds ? '

No, but one's feet get so swollen this hot
weather that I put on my quadrilles,' replied that
matter-of-fact young man, exhibiting a pair of
canvas shoes. ' I saw you a quarter of a mile off.
What are you doing here all by yourself? '

Nothing,' answered Jeanne, blushing a little.
I am so glad you have come back. I thought
you must have gone to the fair at BoufFarik.'

Leon sighed. ' I wish I had ! ' he muttered
involuntarily.

Why ? * asked Jeanne, turning upon him with
a quick look of apprehension. ' Has anything
happened ? Where were you yesterday ? At
Madame de Tremonville's ? '

Why on earth shoidd I have been at Madame
de Tremonville's ? ' returned Leon, with a petulant
gesture. ' And what harm' could have happened
to me if I had been there ? I believe, Jeanne,

you would like me never to speak to any woman
except yourself, ]madame de Vaublanc, and the
Duchess. I have lost a chance of selling some
beasts by not being at Bouffarik — that is all. If
you want to know where I was last night, I was
in Algiers, dining with Saint-Luc, who has just
returned from Kabylia.'

Already ? '

Yes ; there was nothing to keep him thereafter
we had left, you know.'

Then there was a pause, after which Jeanne
remarked, musingly, ' I am sorry I have spoken
so often against M. de Saint-Luc to you, Leon ; I
have liked him much better lately than I used todo,
and I mean to be good friends with him for
the future.'

Leon had a vague impression that, under the
circumstances, it would be scarcely honourable in
him to say much to his sister in Saint-Luc's praise,
but he did feel himself at liberty to observe —

I think you are sometimes a little apt to be
prejudiced, ma soeur. There is Madame de Grenville,
for instance, a really charming person,
whom I am convinced you would like, if you
knew her better.'

Oh, never mind her interrupted Jeanne, with

sudden asperity. ' She will do very well without
my liking ; and it is most improbable that I shall
ever be better acquainted with her than I am.
But I confess I was in the wrong about M. de
Saint-Luc'

This was very satisfactory. Leon began to
think that all would yet go well ; that he would
soon have the pleasure of welcoming Saint-Luc as
his brother-in-law ; that his debt would be wiped
out, and that the only abiding result of last night's
folly would be a fine crop of good resolutions.
But all these fair hopes were annihilated by
Jeanne's next words.

To speak plainly, Leon,' she went on, ' I
should not have disliked M. de Saint-Luc so much
if I had not known all along that he was intended
to marry me. And then what annoyed me was
that, instead of coming forward in a business-like
way, as all the Duchess's other proteges have
done, stating his advantages and what he required
in return for them, offering his hand, and being
politely sent about his business, he would hang
on and hang on, making me obnoxious presents
and following me about whenever I entered a
ball-room, and yet never giving me the opportunity
of telling him what is the truth— that I

would no more think of marrying him than — than
old Pierre Calvin.'

At this forcible announcement Leon's countenance
assumed an aspect of the most profound
dejection ; but Jeanne, who was looking down at
the ground and tracing patterns with the point of
her shoe, continued, without observing him —

Now all that is at an end. Do you remember
that night at Fort Napoleon, when he and I walked
away together after dinner ? Well, he asked me
then, and I told him it was quite impossible. But
I was very sorry ; for it seemed that, after all, he
had not been thinking only of making a good,
suitable match, as I had supposed, but that he
really did care for me for myself

'He most certainly did, and he does still,'
broke in Leon, eagerly.

Has he spoken to you of it ? ' asked Jeanne,
looking up. ' It is a great pity ; I quite believed
he was sincere ; but what could I do ? '

Do you think you are wise to reject Saint-luc,
Jeanne ? ' Leon asked, after communing fora
short space with himself, and deciding that he
might permissible plead his friend's cause to this
limited extent. ' I would not urge you to act in
any way against your inclinations, but it seems tome

that you start by setting your face against
every man who might become your husband ; and
yet some day or other you will require a house
and an establishment of your own. I don't know
where you could find a better or kinder fellow
than Saint-Luc. He is devoted to you ; he would
do everything he could to make you happy '

Yes, yes, I know all that,' interrupted Jeanne
a little impatiently, for she was not accustomed to
being lectured by her younger brother. ' I don't
doubt that M. de Saint-Luc is all that you say ;
but when I marry, if I ever do marry, it will not
be for the sake of a house and an establishment.'

Not for that alone, of course.'

ISTot for that in any degree. Let us say no
more about it.'

'You will not even give Saint-Luc another
trial then ? '

Another trial ! ' echoed Jeanne, with a little
vexed laugh. ' You talk of him as if he were a
horse. How am I to try him, and what difference
could a hundred trials make ? If you will insist
on having everything put before you in such plain
language, Leon, I do not love M. de Saint-Luc,
and shall never do so, though I may come to like
him very much indeed. Pray do not let him think

for a moment that it can be otherwise. If you
were to do so, you would be acting very unkindly
both to him and to me.'

She was half-inclined to give her brother some
hint that her heart was no longer her own to dispose
of; but this she could hardly do as yet, not
being formally engaged to Mr. Barrington.

You mean me to understand then that your
marriage with Saint-Luc is an impossibility ? '

It is as much an impossibility as anything in
this world can be,' answered Jeanne, emphatically.


So be it ! ' said Leon, rising, with a deep
sigh, from the stone on which he had been seated.
It is very unfortunate, but it can't be helped.'

But why should it be unfortunate ? ' asked
Jeanne, glancing up at her brother with some
curiosity. ' What reason can you have for wishing
so much that I should marry a man whom I do
not love ? '

What reason ? Ah, that I cannot tell you.
And yet,' he added, with a sudden desperate resolution
to confess the worst, and get it over, ' why
should I not tell you ? You must be told soon —
the sooner the better, perhaps. Jeanne, I am
going to make you hate me — no, not hate me —

that I know you will never do. I daresay you
will not even be very angry with lue, though
heaven knows I deserve your anger.'

Jeanne got up and seated herself beside her
brother. She threw her arm round his neck and
bent down her beautiful head till her cheek rested
against his.

Tell me all about it, Leon,' she whispered.
You used always to come to me in your troubles,
you know.'

Yes, always,' he answered, with something
between a sob and a sigh. ' Do you remember,
long ago, when we were children, M. de Font-vieille
saying, one day, that you ought to have
been the boy and I the girl ? I was very angry
with him at the time, but I have often thought
since that he was right. Oh, Jeanne, I have made
such a fool of myself.'

Never mind, dear,' she said, stroking his close-cropped
black hair. ' Whatever you have done,
nothing can come between us two, or change our
love for each other.'

No ; that is the worst of it. If you would
abuse me roundly I might be able to plead some
extenuating circumstances for myself; but as it is,
what can I do, except tell you the bare facts ^

It is absurd to apologise and say " I am sorry " —
there are injuries too deep to be atoned for by
any apology, and it is a wrong of that kind that
I have done to you.' And then, without further
preface, Leon gave a brief account of his adventure
at the club and his subsequent interview with
Saint-Luc. Jeanne heard him with the most unruffled
composure, only interrupting his recital by
an occasional expression of sympathy, till he explained
to her the means by which he had hoped
that the impending catastrophe might be averted.
Upon that, much to the consternation of Leon,
who imagined that he had got through the worst
part of his confession, she withdrew her arm from
his shoulder with a quick movement of repulsion,
and starting to her feet, moved away a few paces.
Her back was towards him, so that he coidd not
at first see what an unexpected effect his announcement
had had upon her; but when she turned
round presently and looked at him, he involuntarily
shrank back, for her face bore an expression
of mingled scorn, pain, and humiliation such ashe
had never seen there before, and which, having
once seen, he never afterwards forgot.

So / was the stake for which you and M. de
Saint-Luc played a game of cards,' she said at

length, in a low, hard voice. ' I think you are
right, Leon — you ought not to have been born a
man.'

Oh, Jeanne ! ' he exclaimed, wincing under
these cruel words, ' what do you mean ? What
have I done ? '

'Done? Only allowed a stranger to think
that he might take your sister in payment of a
gambling debt. Is it possible that you do not
see what must have been the man's object all
through? Of course he knew that you would
pay him, and that I would rather sacrifice myself
than ruin you. I will try to forgive you, Leon,
but him I will never forgive to my dying day.'

Jeanne, you are quite wrong. You mistake
altogether. I can answer for it that Saint-Luc
was as innocent of any such notion as I was myself.
It was quite understood between us that my
debt to him was to remain the same in the event
of your refusing him ; and I told him that you
would very likely do so. Don't think me worse
than I am. I swear to you that it was for your
sake, not my own, that I consented to Saint-Luc's
proposition. How could I bear the thought of
driving you out of your home by my folly ? '

I would do much more than give up a few

luxuries for you, Leon ; and you must know it.
It is not that — not that.'

And here, to Leon's utter amazement, Jeanne
suddenly covered her face with her hands, and
burst into a storm of tears.

Such displays of emotion were so rare with the
calm, self-possessed Mademoiselle de Mersac that
her brother was as much shocked and startled by
the 2:>resent outbreak as if she had been a man.
Not in the least understanding why she should
have been so violently moved, he felt, nevertheless,
that lie had unintentionally wounded lier far more
deeply than he had expected to do, and, like a
true Frenchman, he became at once infected by
the sight of her distress till he was scarcely less
agitated than she. He flung himself down on the
ground beside her, calling her by every endearing
epithet that he could think of, cursing this own
stupidity and awkwardness, and beseeching for
forgiveness so piteously that it would have required
a much harder heart than Jeanne's to withstand
his entreaties.

She grew calmer by degrees, and held out her
hand to him, as she dried her eyes.

I think I will go in now,' she said, ' I cannot
talk any more just at present ; but of one thing

VOL. IT. D

you may be sure, Leon— M. de Saint-Luc shall
have his money, and it Avill not be necessary for
you to give up the house or the farm.'

Then she got up, and disregarding her brother's
efforts to detain her, passed quickly away between
the smooth trunks of the orange-trees, and was
soon out of sight.

Her head was aching and throbbing when she
reached the solitude of her own room and sat
down to think ; but she had all her wits about
her — as indeed she always lead — and the situation
in which she was placed was as clear to her as
daylight. Of course M. de Saint-Luc must be
paid. Equally, of course, he must be paid out of
her marriage-portion, since that was the only sum
of ready money which the family could raise
without grievous loss, scandal and humiliation.
If, then, Barrington were to become her husband,
it would be necessary that she should ask him to
resign all claim upon the greater part of her
fortune, and the prospect of having to make this
request was a sore wound to her pride. To ask a
favour, even of the man whom she loved best in
the Avorld, would be disagreeable to her ; to ask
for moneys would be more disagreeable still ; to
make her acceptance of his hand dependent upon

his reply would be most disagreeable of all.
The thing, however, had to be done ; and Jeanne,
who had never yet lacked courage in any emergency,
made up her mind that she could do it
without flinching. That Barrington would meet
her with a refusal did not seem likely. She
believed him to be a rich man ; but even were
he not so, his love, if it were worth having at all,
must needs rise superior to mercenary considerations.
Knowing that she herself would have
laughed at the idea of any question of money
creating a breach between them, she could scarcely
imagine that he would show himself less magnanimous.
But supposing that, by any chance,
his masculine common sense or English phlegm
should revolt against the frittering away of his
wife's fortune to fill the pockets of a gamester,
what alternative would then remain ? This possibility
also Jeanne forced herself to contemplate
calmly, and arose from the consideration of it
with something of a shudder indeed, but with no
hesitation in her mind. Sooner than that the
name of de Mersac should be disgraced and Leon's
future career blighted, she would pay in her own
person the losses he had so carelessly incurred,
and become Saint-Luc's wife. Many another

D 2

woman had gone knowingly to as hard a fate
with a less noble aim in view, and had lived
through it, and earned some sort of contentment,
if not happiness. ' And happiness is not everything,'
thought poor Jeanne.

The absurdity of sacrificing her whole life fora
mere mistake did not strike her. To her, not
less than to Leon, it would have seemed in the
highest degree dishonourable to accept a gift of
money or release from a debt, however contracted
; and thus, at this turning point of her
earthly course, she stood alone and unwavering,
bright hopes on one side and utter darkness on the
other, and all her future resting upon the will of
a good-natured, romantic, selfish fellow, whose
yes or no might be affected by his breakfast or
the state of the weather, or any other trivial
external influence.

Of this Jeanne was not aware; but she felt
that so momentous an issue could not fitly be
decided in a ball-room, so she sat down and wrote
a few lines to Madame de Vaublanc, saying that
she did not feel well enough to go to the Palace
that night. Barrington would undoubtedly call
the next morning to inquire after her, and then
her fate could be decided at once and for ever.

CHAPTER XVI.

Madam DE VAL'BLAXC STIRS UP EVIL PASSIONS.

'The question is,' mused Barrington, • whether a
mau who isn't a soldier doesn't look more or less
of a fool in soldier's clothes ? But then, again,
what is the use of dragging a Yeomanry uniform
about the world if one is not to wear it ? And
Frenchmen always think it rather odd if one
appears in plain evening dress on a gala occasion.
I suppose I had better put the tiling on.'

The subject of these hesitating reflections was
a very smart blue tunic, loaded with a profusion
of silver lace, which lay outstretched on Barrington's
bed beside a pair of trousers with a broad
silver stripe, a sword, and a white-plumed helmet.

It is tight, it is uncomfortable, and I am not
sure that it isn't a Httle bit ridiculous ; but it
don't do to seem wanting in respect, and that sort
of thing. I hope the Governor General will take
my appearance in it as a compliment,' concluded

Barrington, who in truth loved bright colours and
showy apparel, and never by any chance missed
the Yeomanry ball which closed his short annual
period of training. And so he struggled into his
nether garments with a sigh of mingled resignation
and contentment.

A few doors off, M. de Saint-Luc, who had
worn a gay jacket long enough to have grown
tired of it, was arraying himself in the plainest of
plain clothes, in preparation for the same festivity
as that to which Barrington had been bidden.
Not without sundry misgivings had he decided to
present himself at the ball ; for he was by no
means sure what Jeanne would think of his reappearance
in society so soon after the shattering
of al] his hopes, nor could he feel any certainty
with regard to the footing upon which he would
now stand with her, or as to whether he might
venture to ask her for a dance or not. Yet, since
they must meet before long, what signified time
and place ? The first encounter might be a little
awkward, but it would soon be over ; and as to
his future line of conduct, that must be regulated
in a great measure by hers. He did not delude
himself into the belief that success could be won
by any other means than time and much patience ;

and, as he had a limitless supply of both these
necessaries at command, it seemed best to take
the earliest opportunity of drawing upon them.
He had completed his toilet long before Barrington
had done studying the effect of his full-length
figure before his pier-glass, and, calling a passing
jmcre^ presently joined the stream of vehicles
which was wending its slow way up the hill of
Mustapha Superieiu*, where the summer palace
stands.

The majority of the company had already
arrived when Saint-Luc made his entrance, and it
was with some little difficulty that he threaded
his way through the crowded approaches to the
ball-room, where the orchestra was in full swing,
and where toilettes Parisian and Algerian, mingled
with uniforms of every conceivable cut and hue,
produced a bewildering, shifting effect of colour
and glitter which, taken as a spectacle, might, to
a less preoccupied man, have seemed worth gazing
at for a few minutes. But Saint-Luc had seen it
all before, and was not in the mood for studying
tableaux vivants. The generals and admirals ;
the Spahis in their scarlet, and the Chasseurs
d'Afrique in their pale blue, jackets ; the prefers
and sous-prefers in their green and gold coats, the

portly mayors, whose gold embroidery, not content
with covering their breasts, overflowed, and
meandered agreeably down their broad backs ;
the violet robes of a stray ecclesiastic or two ; the
white burnous of some Arab chief, against which
the cross and red ribbon of the Legion of Honour
showed somewhat incongruously ; the swarthy
Moors and black-eyed, bediamonded Recesses —
all these were objects with which he hed long
been familiar ; and it was neither to look at them
nor to admire the graceful Oriental architecture
of the palace and the beauty of the illuminated
gardens that lie had forsaken his nocturnal cigar
and the quietude of his own chamber. But she
whom he had come out to see was nowhere to be
discovered ; and, instead of greeting her, he found
himself ere long compelled to shake hands with a
lady whom he would gladly have avoided.

Madame de Tremonville was not one of those
persons who can be avoided without their own
good will and pleasure. She was far too well
satisfied with herself to suppose that any man
could really wish to escape from her, and interpreted
Saint-Luc's rather distant bow and
abstracted gaze as a mere indication of that
boredom which was, in her eyes, one of the

chief evidences of his superiority to the common
herd.

You do not amuse yourself too "vvell, M. le
Vicomte,' said she, pausing beside him, and dismissing
her attendant cavalier with an unceremonious
nod. ' Ma fox ! I am not surprised.
From Paris to Algiers — from the Tuileries to
Mustapha — what a change ! Were you ever in
such a crowd of droll people before ? What
faces ! what manners ! what clothes ! '

And Madame de Tremonville disdainfully
shrugged her plump shoulders, which were thickly
coated with blanc de perles, and heaved a piteous
sigh.

Madame, you are too severe upon the company,'
answered Saint-Luc, pulling himself together.
' I have been but a few minutes in the
room, and already I see one face and one toilette
which could not be surpassed either in Paris or
elsewhere.'

Oh, monsieur! '

Beauty and good taste always find imitators.
With such an example before them, these ladies
will assuredly learn soon to reform any little
errors in their dress or conduct,' pursued Saint-luc.
'chow shall I get rid of this detestable

woman ?) But it is a sin to expose your exquisite
lace flounce to the risk of being; torn in such a
crowd. Will you not allow me to find you a seat ? '

Let them tear it — so much the better if they
do,' answered Madame de Tremonville, passing
by the hint. ' I have worn it half-a-dozen times
already, and I am tired of the sight of it. There
is the music beginning again ; shall we dance ?
Quick ! I see my partner coming for me.'

Saint-Luc, who always accepted the inevitable
with a good grace, passed his arm round the
waist of his fascinating companion, and floated
away with her into the whirling throng of dancers,
while the young officer whom he had supplanted
looked after the couple with mingled
sorrow and reproach.

What a strange world it is, and how little
any of us know of our fellow-creatures ! ' thought
the philosophical Vicomte, with an inward laugh.
That young fellow, who would quarrel with any
of his brother-officers for robbing him of a partner,
does not dream of interfering with a man of
my prestige. Such a career as mine has been
fills him with admiration and respect. I suppose
he thinks he would be perfectly happy if he could
change places with me, and be looked upon as a

hero by a few fools, and flirt with this painted,
vulgar woman, who has already managed to get
into the society of her betters, and is miserable
because she will never reach a still higher circle.
I daresay there are even people who envy Madame
de Tremonville too. Is there such a thing as
contentment, I wonder ? and does everybody wish
for something he has not sot, and hate it as soon
as he gets it? Is it because what I long for
would make me so supremely happy that I feel
such a certainty of failure ? '

Saint-Luc had time to debate all these questions,
and sundry others, while he was mechanically
piloting Madame de Tremonville in and out
among the erratic couples who revolved around
him. He had just arrived at the sage conclusion
that the happiest of mortals is the man who
has ceased to seek for happiness, when his meditations
and his career were alike cut short by
the apparition in the doorway of a cap whose
violet bows could only belong to Madame de
Vaublanc.

'She is coming ! ' thought Saint-Luc, forgetting
aU his philosophy ; and he brought his partner
to a sudden standstill.

Madame de Yaublanc indeed it was ; but

where, alas ! was the tall graceful figure and the
pale, proud face that should have followed her?
Saint-Luc, jeering anxiously out into the corridor,
could discover no familiar countenance save the
puzzled and angry one of Mr. Barrington, frowning
above the silver lace of the Eoyal Surrey
Yeomanry Cavalry. * I am not the only one who
is disappointed to-night,' thought he, with a smile
and a sigh, as he turned to street Madame de
Vaublanc, who clutched his hand as a drowning
man seizes a rope.

Mon Diei, monsieur ! ' she exclaimed, ' how
glad I am to see you ! What a terrible crush, is
it not ?— and not a person here whom I know —
and I who have crowds in horror ! Is there a
possibility, do you think, of my finding a chair
anywhere ? '

Madame de Tremonville pounced upon the
bewildered old lady before Saint-Luc could reply,
and saluted her with a feu-de-joie of shrill ejaculations.


'What, dear madame ! You at a ball, and
alone too ! But where is your charming protegee ?
What have you done with Mademoiselle Jeanne ?
I have been looking for her arrival, that I might
present to her some most agreeable young men

who are dying to make her acquaintance— M. de
Monceaux, M. danville '

Mademoiselle de Mersac is not with me interrupted
the old lady, sourly ; 'and if she were,
I should not think it my duty to allow her to
dance with the first that came.'

Oh, madame ! you know that I am discretion
itself. My friends are all persons of the highest
respectability. If they were not alive at the
accession of Louis X^HLII. that is neither my fault
nor theirs. But I trust Mademoiselle Jeanne will
join us before the evening is over.'

She is not coming at all,' answered Madame
de Vaublanc, too full of her grievance to refrain
from speaking of it, even to the enemy. ' She
wrote to me at the last moment to say she had
the rnigraine. It is very inconsiderate — very inconvenient,
I mean. Having accepted the Mare-chase's
invitation, I felt bound to come here, much
as I dislike such entertainments. Indeed, it is
only out of politeness that I sometimes attend
even the small Monday receptions, though thereof
course, I am more among my friends.'

At this moment a young aide-de-camp, whose
pinched-in waist and voluminous trousers gave his
figure somewhat the appearance of a brightly-coloured

hour-glass, shouldered his way towards
the little group. He was an acquaintance of
Madame de Tremonville's, who put on one of her
most telling smiles to receive him ; but he passed
her with a bow, and bent down to offer this arm
to Madame de Yaublanc.

Madame la Mareschal sends me to say that
she has a seat for you beside her, madame,' said
he. ' Will you permit me ? '

So the violet cap-ribbons went bobbing and
nodding away through the crowd beside the blue
jacket, and presently Madame de Tremonville had
the satisfaction of making out her old friend,
seated at the far end of the room, among a circle
of magnates whom, bold as she was, she dared not
approach. The lady who at that time exercised
vice-regal sway over the society of Algeria was
generally thought to have leanings towards Legitimists,
and was notoriously averse to fast women
of the type of Madame de Tremonville. The
latter had never been able to obtain an invitation
to those Mondays of which Madame de Vaublanc
had spoken, and this was a very sore point with
her.

Of all the people I have ever met, I think
that old woman is the ugliest, the most ill-natured,

and the most ill-bred,' she cried, with a fine
hearty emphasis and unaffected warmth which
made Saint-Luc laugh a little.

Poor old soul ! ' said he. ' She resembles a
walnut in character as well as in the appearance
of her skin. If you want to get at the good in
her, you must break through a hard outer shell of
obstinacy and prejudice, beneath which les a not
very thick covering of bitterness against the
human race, which has not treated her over
well ; but the good qualities are there, and not so
hard to discover after all.'

Bah ! everybody has good qualities,' returned
Madame de Tremonville, impatiently. ' I may say,
without vanity, that I also have good qualities.
We all know that that frightful old Yaublanc
and the Duchesse de Breuil and Mademoiselle de
Mersac give money to the poor and visit the sick
occasionally ; but that is not what society requires
of them. If they say their prayers regularly and
keep all the ten commandments, so much the
better for them — that is their affair. Society does
not concern itself with such things, but simply
asks that they should show some signs of savoir-livre
and good breeding, and that is precisely
what none of them does.'

Pardon me, madame, but I must differ from
you entirely, so for as Mademoiselle De Mersac
and the Duchess are concerned. I never met
two ladies of more perfectly refined and amiable
manners. As for Madame de Vaublanc, she is a
little brusque ; but I find that, as I grow older,
I value 'people more for what they are than for
what they seem to be, and '

'• Enough ! enough ! ' cried Madame de Grenville,
throwing up her hands with a gesture
of simulated terror. ' One does not go to a ball
to hear a sermon. Go away, M. le Vicomte ; you
weary me.'

I must obey your commands, madame, however
cruel,' replied Saint-Luc, with suspicious
alacrity.

Stop ! Before you go, take me to that M.
Barrington. I want to ask him what is that fine
uniform he wears. I did not know he was militaire,'
said Madame de Tremonville, whose tastes
in more respects than one were identical with
those of the Grande Duchesse de Bernstein.

People who have the harmless mania of ferreting
out the original sources of great events are
fond of proving, or seeming to prove, that the
course of the world's history has been affected

over and over again by some paltry occurrence
to which no one paid aoy attention at the time,
nor recollected until long afterwards. A fit of
indigestion, they tell us, costs thousands of lives ;
an apple falling from a tree leads to a scientific
discovery of incalculable importance ; an angry
word decides the fate of an empire. As regards
such important matters, the chain of reasoning is,
perhaps, more curious than valuable, and serves, at
most, only to show how the inevitable may be hastened
or delayed by trifles ; yet there can be but
few men who, looking back upon their past lives,
will deny that their personal history has been
fashioned less by what they have done than by what
has happened to them. Wise and foolish, strong
and weak, must yield alike to the influence of trivialities,
in which some see the hand of Providence,
some the blind, uncontrollable working of an infinitely
complicated machine, and some mere accident.
If Madame la Mareschal had not, out of
pure good nature, sent an aide-de-camp to look
after an unattractive old woman ; if Saint-luc had
not happened to annoy his volatile partner ; if
Barrington's silver lace had been a Httle less conspicuous,
Madame de Tremonville would never
have worked the mischief that she did that night,

VOL. II. E

and the course of more than one life would have
taken a different direction.

She was not an ill-natured person, this quick-witted
underbred little Frenchwoman. She did
not want to injure or afflict anybody, and was no
more capable of hatred than she was of love.
Her vulnerable point was her vanity, and if that
were touched she would show spite and temper
for a time, as a cat arches her back and spits
when a big dog stalks past her without turning
his head. Because she had been ignored and
Madame de Vaublanc honoured, she felt it a necessity
to say some sharp things of that lady and
lier clan ; and since Saint-Luc did not seem disposed
to swallow her little dose of calumny, she
thought she would administer it to Mr. Barrington,
whom she knew to be also a constant visitor at
the Campagne de Mersac.

Long afterwards, when lie recalled that evening,
and Madame de Tremonville's envious disparagement
of one whom he knew to be immeasurably
her superior, Barrington used to wonder how he
could have allowed such vain babbling to produce
even a passing impression upon his mind. Earlier
in the day he would, perhaps, hardly have attended
to it ; but at that moment he was annoyed

and perplexed by Jeanne's failure to keep her
appointment, and the misgivings which he had
only half stifled in the morning had begun to return
upon him. The mind, as well as the body,
has seasons at which it is more liable to receive
poison than at others, and, having received it, is
less able to shake it off.

After all, it was nothing very terrible that
Madame de Tremonville said. They were standing,
she and her partner, on a broad verandah,
whither they had escaped from the heated air of
the ball-room. Before them stretched the garden
with its trim lawns, its flower-beds, its trees and
shrubs, its coloured lamps, its expanses of light
and dark patches of shadow. Barrington, leaning
against a marble pillar, and looking out upon the
soft beauty of the night, was listening, not very
attentively, to his companion's rapid chatter. Lie
had been denouncing and ridiculing the Duchesse
de Breuil and Madame de Vaublanc. She lead
mimicked, rather cleverly, the high and mighty
manner of the one, and the harsh, rasping voice
of the other. ' A pair of old ogresses, who fancy
themselves princesses ; nobody is cruel enough to
disabuse them of their error,' she said. Barrington
listened to it all, not without amusement. He

Oyv/u

thought the two ogresses were very well able to
stand up for themselves — as indeed they were —
and did not feel called upon to undertake their
defence. Now it was Jeanne's turn.

Tell me, monsieur,' cried the little lady,
resting her rounded arms upon the marble balustrade,
and fluttering her fan as she looked up in
the Englishman's face, ' you who are so well
acquainted with her — do you find her very attractive?'


Barrington had found her very decidedly so ;
but he replied, in a tone of judicial impartiality,
Well, yes ; he should say that Mademoiselle de
Mersac was certainly an attractive person.'

Eeally ? But gentlemen and ladies so seldom
agree on these points. The truth is, that one
woman is always a fairer judge of another than
any man can be.'

Barrington observed that the world at large
had long ago arrived at a diametrically opposite
conclusion.

I know that ; but the world is mistaken, as
it very often is. The world starts by assuming
that all women are jealous of one another — which
is absurd. It is easy enough for a woman to
please men ; beauty alone will do that, not to

speak of a hundred other weapons which she
learns to use before she is out of the nursery.
But if she wishes to be loved by other women,
she must have a heart. Jeanne de Mersachas no
heart. She is as cold as a stone ; she has no real
affection for anybody ; and that is why I, for one,
am repelled by her.'

You will allow, at least, that she has some
affection for her brother ? ' said Barrington.

Affection ? I do not know. She is kind to
him, and does a great deal for him ; but that explains
itself. Tenez M. Barrington, I will give
you the key to Jeanne de Mersac's character in
three words — love of power. She has one of those
natures — happily not very common among young
girls — which can be magnanimous, generous,
amiable even, to subordinates, but which revolt
against all authority. Have you remarked her
passion for animals ? It is easily understood ;
they do not question her orders. She devotes
herself to her brother — why ? Because he does
nothing without consulting her. When he begins
to act for himself, she will abandon him, and seek
for some other slave. Madame de Breuil, who is
completely under her thumb, she tolerates, but
does not like ; because, after all, the most easygoing

of chaperons must occasionally lay some
restrictions upon her charge. In short, this girl,
who might have made herself talked of if she had
been born to a throne, will never be anything but
an insupportable wife ; and, for my part, if I
were M. de Saint-lii, I would not marry her,
though she had twice her beauty and ten times
her fortune

Possibly she may decline to marry M. de Saint-luc,'
said Barrington.

For his sake, I hope with all my heart that
she may. Her husband will have two alternatives
open to him. Either he will have to submit to
her at once and unreservedly, to allow her to
control everything, not excepting his expenditure
in which case she will doubtless manage his
affairs well, and treat him with every consideration
or he will have to fight a long battle, out of
Which he can only come victorious at the cost of
his happiness. No man is very likely to adopt
the former course, and it is not every one who
will succeed in the latter. All things considered,
I do not envy Mademoiselle Jeanne's future husband,'
concluded Madame de Tremonville, as she
turned to re-enter the ball-room.

Barrington donned his helmet and his martial

cloak, and went clanking down the hill, pensive
and vaguely uneasy. The broad high road before
him was barred by black shadows from the acacia
trees that bordered it ; and, as he walked, it
seemed to him that he was looking forward into
his own future path in life, and could see some
such patches of gloom lying across it. ' Love of
power her only passion ' — ' She will never be anything
but an insupportable wife ' — ' She is as cold
as a stone ' — what were all these accusations but
the reflections of his own forebodings magnified,
perhaps a Httle distorted, by an angry woman?
Or was it only that they were rendered more distinct?
Well, if it were so, that did not make
them more real. It is oblique lights — half lights
that fling shadows, and seem to convert them
into tangible realities. When the sun is high
overhead, and all dark nooks and corners are
illuminated, they vanish away. But then commonsense
stepped in, and pointed out that similes were
not facts, and that after making every allowance
for the exaggerations of a hostile critic, there still
remained some basis of truth to support her assertions.
Jeanne was, undoubtedly, fond of her own
way, and accustomed to get it. She had a certain
royal fashion of issuing her commands to those

about her without assigning reasons for them ; she
was far more disposed to unbend in the presence
of her inferiors than in that of her equals, and
towards the latter her bearing was almost invariably
cold and indifferent. Barrington had long
since remarked these traits in her character, and
had been attracted by them. Had she been more
like the rest of the world, he would hardly have
fallen in love with her. But then, is originality a
desirable quality in a wife ? The whole question
lay there. Would not the very incentives which
had called his passion into existence contribute
more strongly than anything towards its extinction
in the knot there's no untying ' ? All experience
seemed to answer Yes. If only the present state
of affairs could be indefinitely prolonged, and the
question of marriage adjourned sine die ! thought
Barrington, as he toiled wearily upstairs to his
bedroom, a prey to doubts and fears with which,
it is to be hoped, that no one will feel any
sympathy.

The French uiail had come in late that evening,
and a pile of letters lay on his table awaiting
perusal.

Ernest Seymour's fist,* muttered Barrington.
as he took up one of them, and sank into an armchair.

' I wonder what he has got to complain
about now ; he never writes unless he has some
grievance. Amelia ill again, I suppose.'

'110 Portland Place : June 5.

My DEAR Harry,

The anxiety and distress which, during
the last three days, have almost overwhelmed me
must be my excuse for not having written to you
before this. I am positive that I several times
gave directions to have a telegram sent to Broad -
ridge, but it seems that, through the negligence of
the servants, this was not done ; and now, to my
great surprise, I have just learnt from your Aunt
Susan that you have not yet returned from
Algeria.

I have not ventured as yet to communicate
this news to dear Amelia, who is constantly asking
for you, and I shall try, if possible, to tranquilise
her with assurances of your speedy arrival. In
her present exhausted state she does not, I think,
take much note of the passage of time. Were I
to let her know how many days must necessarily
elapse before we can hope to have you with us,
the shock would, I am convinced, have a most
deleterious effect upon her.

Alas, poor dear ! she has had one of lier most

alarming attacks. For twenty-four hours she was
almost entirely unconscious ; and, though she has
now to some extent rallied, it is impossible to
describe her state otherwise than as one of extreme
peril. Her emaciation is frightful, and, as for
nourishment, I may gay that for days past she has
taken literally none. Even the Liebig, which you
may remember that we have found so useful
hitherto, she has been unable to retain ; and
though the light farinaceous food ordered by the
doctor has, up to the present time, been kept
upon her stomach, who can say how long it may
remain there ? But I must not afflict you with
these painful details.

Sir William Puffin, whom we called in some
days ago, seems to hesitate about giving any decided
opinion upon the case, but tells me he does
not apprehend any immediate danger. Dear Amelia
herself, however, has little expectation of ever
leaving her bed again.

Your Aunt Susan tries to cheer us up in her
well-intentioned but rather rough way, and says
the whole thing is nothing but hysteria, and will
go away as suddenly as it came. She is opposed
to my recalling you to England ; but I am sure

that you will feel, with me, that I am right m
doing so. How difficult it seems to be, to thoroughly
robust people, to sympathise with those
who are in constant ill health I To hear your
Aunt Susan talk, you woidd imagine that Amelia
and I were to blame for being the stretched invalids
that we are !

I myself am very far from well ; and Puffin
being in the house, I thought it only prudent to
consult him. But I doubt whether, in the very
short interview he thought fit to grant me, he
can have properly grasped the significance of my
symptoms. He says I am dyspeptic, and that
may be so : but dyspepsia cannot possibly account
for all the strange sensations that I have experienced
of late. A continual and most distressing
singing in the ears, sudden and unaccountable
pains in the back and limbs, palpitation of the
heart, giddiness, distaste for food, drowsiness, and
sad depression of spirits are only a few of these.
Should my life be spared until the summer, I propose,
with Sir William's permission, to give a trial
to the cold water cure at Malvern. What the
effect of that drastic treatment will be upon so enfeebled
a frame as mine time alone can show ; but

I am willing to run the risk, and am, I hope,
justified in so doing.'

The same interesting subject was pursued
through two more closely written 'pages, which
Barrington dismissed with a hasty glance, and
then threw the letter aside. The Amelia, whose
sufferings were so touchingly depicted therein,
was his only sister, Mrs. Seymour, who, having
been delicate, nervous, and fanciful all her life,
had developed into a confirmed invalid, after
linking her fortunes with those of a valetudinarian
husband. This was neither the first, nor the
second, nor the third time that Barrington had
been summoned, in all haste, to attend her deathbed,
and had arrived to find her on the sofa, and
not much worse than usual. She was always
dying, but, somehow or other, never died. At the
same time it was undeniable that so fragile a
creature might die upon small provocation ; and
though Barrington felt very little alarm on the
present occasion, and was rather disposed to coincide
with the views of the unfeeling Aunt Susan
mentioned by Mr. Seymour, he could scarcely
hesitate to obey the summons conveyed to him.
The only question was whether he could and

should see Mademoiselle de Mersac before sailing
for England. Now as the Marseilles boat did not
sail till noon on the following day, and as Barrington
was aware that Jeanne was a very early riser,
it is evident that he might have obtained an
interview with her if he had so desired ; but, in
truth, he desired no such thing. To see Jeanne
again would be pleasant ; to hear from her own lips
that she loved him would be pleasant still : but
to find himself an irrevocably engaged man would
be — well, a shade less pleasant. Circumstances
not of his creating or seeking had, as it appeared
to this prudent lover, put it in this power to train
the very thing that he wanted — namely, the continuance
of his present relations with the girl
whom he loved. And why should he not take
advantage of them ? He had no thought of giviu^^
Jeanne up ; nevertheless, he was not prepared
immediately to ask her to be \m wife. He wanted
to blow hot and cold at the same time, in short,
and thought he could now see his way to the
accomplishment of this impossible feat. He resolved,
therefore — though not without many sighs
that he would deny himself the delight of meeting
her once more before his departure, and sat
down to write her a letter instead.

Yet, when lie had composed and addressed
this missive, he was more than half inclined to
tear it up again, and would very likely have done
so if Madame de Tremonville's prophetic words
had not hung in his memory, and warned him
against straying from the safe path of delay.

CHAPTEE XVII.

IX WHICH M. DE FOXTVIEILLE TELLS AX
OLD Story.

My DEAR Mademoiselle de Mersac, — I cannot
tell you how disappointed I was at not meeting
you at the ball last night. I was very sorry at
the time, but I am a great deal more sorry now ;
for, as it turns out, I have not only missed the
opportunity of a few pleasant dances with you, to
which I have been looking forward immensely,
but also that of bidding you good-bye.

I little thought, when I rode away from you:
door yesterday, that I had taken what may very
likely be my last look of that dear and familiar
house where I have passed so many happy hours
and have met with a hospitality and kindness for
which, I assure you, I am not ungrateful, though
I have said little about it. But so it was to be.
The mail brought me a letter from my brother-in-law,
telling me of my sister's serious illness,

and begging me to return to England immediately.
One cannot very well disregard a request of that
kind, although in this particular instance it might
perhaps be possible to do so without any real
heartlessness or indifference. All my previous
experience of my sister's illnesses leads me to anticipate
that, when I reach my journey's end, I
shall lind that I might quite as well have remained
where I am, and where I wish with all my heart
that I could stay. But there is, of course, the possibility
of matters being more serious than I
imagine, and therefore I have no alternative but
to go. By the time this reaches you I shall be onboard
the Eujolirate, and outside the harbour, I
daresay. I wonder whether you will be looking
down at us from the terrace where I have so
often stood beside you and watched the great
steamers crawling away like toy-boats towards
the horizon. I shall fancy you there, at any rate,
and shall keep my eyes upon the old cliffs and
woods until their outlines melt into the blue mass
of a hilly coast, which, in its turn, will gradually
fade into a dim cloud, and grow fainter and fainter
till it vanishes altogether, and Algeria, for me,
resolves itself into a memory.

I am sure I need not sav low much I regret

leaving in this abrupt manner ; but, as you see, it
is no fault of mine, and I am longing for the time
to come when we shall meet in Switzerland, for I
take it for granted that I am to be allowed to join
you there. Would it be asking too much of your
kindness to beg you to let me have a few hues as
soon as your plans are fixed, saying when and
where I may hope to see you again? A letter
addressed to the Conservative Club, St. James's
Street, or to the Travellers', Pall Mall, London,
will always find me.

Will you please make my excuses to the
Duchesse de Breuil, and remember me very
kindly to your brother and M. de Fontvieille?
And believe me,

My dear Mademoiselle de Mersac,
Most sincerely yours,

H. Barrington.'

Looked upon in the light of a written farewell
intended to imitate the letter of an engaged man
to his Jiancee as closely as may be without actually
compromising the writer, the above composition
can hardly be reckoned a success. Taken, on the
other hand, as the last word of an unfortunate
who has gone a great deal further than he meant,

VOL. II. P

and sees no safety for himself but in flight, it may,
perhaps, be considered as sufficiently suitable for
its purpose — the manner in which such unfortunate
may choose to blunder out of the meshes
being of very slight importance. But, as the
reader is aware, it was in the former, not in the
latter character that Barrington regarded himself,
and wished to be regarded ; and if he had
been a few years younger and a little less mortally
afraid of committing himself to paper, he might
possibly have produced some less clumsy expression
of his sorrow at parting.

As it was, he was fully sensible of the defects
of his letter, and had the grace to feel thoroughly
ashamed of it. He perceived that it was too
long, too constrained in tone, and, worst of all,
too apologetic. He knew that after what had
passed between him and Jeanne, he ought either
to have said more or less. He even went further,
and acknowledged to himself that, unless he were
]prepared to indite a formal offer of marriage, he
audit not to have written at all. But in that case
]ie must have resigned all intention of making
such an offer at any future time ; and this also he
was not prepared to do. So, dissatisfied as he was
with the result of his labours, he thrust it at

length into an envelope, with a groan and a despairing
shrug of his shoulders, feeling that the
difficulties of the emergency were too many for
him. and being, moreover, if the truth must be
told, a trifle pressed for time, for no man, governor
otherwise, can set out upon a journey without
having first packed up his clothes.

And in due course the missive reached its
destination. It was brought up to the Campagne
de Mersac by a messenger from the Hotel orient,
and was handed to Jeanne as she sat at the
breakfast-table, round which, as ill-luck would
have it, were grouped the Duchess, M. de Font-vieille,
and Leon. Xot half-a-dozen times in as
many weeks did the Duchess leave her room
before the afternoon was well advanced ; scarcely
more often was M. de Fontvieille wont to demand
hospitality of his neighbours ; while, as for the
young master of the house, his avocations frequently
led him miles away from home at the
breakfast hour. But on this particular morning
of all others, Madame de Breuil had woke up feeling
unusually brisk and strong ; M. de Fontvieille 's
cat had made a raid upon the fried soles and the
dish of small birds to which that gentleman lead
been looking for his mid-day sustenance ; and

Leon, being in sore trouble of mind, had fallen
out with Pierre Cauvin, and had ridden back in
the sulks, leaving his day's duties half accomplished.
Thus it came to pass that Jeanne had to
open her letter in the presence of three witnesses ;
and, what was worse still, had to read it with six
inquiring eyes fixed upon her face.

People who have intelligence of a starting
nature to impart ought to send their communications
in the ordinary manner, through the post.
In these days, everybody gets one or two letters
at breakfast-time, and may, by exercising a little
self-command, make shift to receive a sharp epistolary
blow without displaying unbecoming emotion,
or exciting the attention of those who sit
at meat with him — especially if, as is to be
anticipated, the latter be busy over the study of
their own correspondence. But a note delivered
after post-hours must, in the nature of things,
create some slight stir of curiosity in the least inquisitive
and best-bred circles, which is sometimes
apt to be a little hard upon the recipient, upon
whom the consciousness of being more or less
furtively watched can hardly fail to produce a
sensation of discomfort. Had Barrington been
possessed of that nice consideration for the feelings

of others which he imagined — and still imagines —
to be one of this most salient characteristics, he
might possibly have thought of this, and put a
stamp upon his letter. But being what he was,
and having before his mind's eye a sentimental
picture of Jeanne standing on the terrace and
wistfully gazing after the good ship which was
bearing her lover away beyond the seas, he chose
rather to expend five francs upon sending it up
the hill by special messenger. The consequence
was that M. de Fontvieille was interrupted in the
middle of a piquant anecdote, and was fain to
wind it up in a hurried and lame manner ; for he
and his audience too were naturally anxious to
learn what news could be contained in Jeanne's
lengthy epistle, and as naturally tried to discover
from her features whether it were of an agreeable
or interesting nature.

They might, however, as well have looked at
each other, or at the pictures on the wall. Jeanne,
who was habitually pale, seldom changed colour,
and was never more outwardly calm than when
she was most deeply moved. She perused her
letter very slowly and deliberately folded it up
again, restored it to its envelope, and then, without
saying a word to anybody, resumed her occupation

of breaking up dog-biscuit for Turco's
breakfast.

If there was one thing that irritated the
Duchess more than another, it was conduct of
this kind. She was an inquisitive okl body, who
liked to have a finger in everyone's business, and
to be consulted in every emergency. She hated
secrets (except, of course, her own, which she
made a prodigious fuss over), and could not bear
the thought that anything in the shape of a
mystery should exist under the same roof with
her. Sooner, indeed, than that matters should
remain in so unsatisfactory a condition she would
clear them up by means of direct questions ; but
this was a humiliating mode of procedure to
which she seldom resorted until she had essayed
to work round to her end through a series of artless
circumlocutions.

Upon the present occasion she drummed upon
the table impatiently with her withered, jewelled
fingers for a minute Or two, and then, addressing
herself to nobody in particular, remarked
that it was a strange thing that people
never came to see her now. And yet, she resumed,
after a momentary break, perhaps it was not such
a very strange thing after all. She was a very

old woman, and loneliness was one of the necessary
evils of old age. ' You and I, my dear M. de
Fontvieille, have been out of the race for many
years past ; and, perhaps, it is too much to expect
that young people should take the trouble to
amuse us. They have the* own interests and
then: own pleasures, which they keep to themselves,
without thinking, perhaps, that we, too,
like to have our share in what goes on around
us. Very likely they find us in the way. Well,
they have the consolation of knowing that we
cannot interfere ^vith them Ions.'

'My letter is from Mr. Barrington. Would
you like to read it, madame ? ' asked Jeanne, who
did not like circumlocutions.

I make it a rule never to read correspondence
which is not addressed to me,' answered
the old lady, with dignity, * particularly when it
is written in a language which I do not understand.'


Whereat M. de Fontvieille had a little laugh
all to himself behind his napkin.

He writes to say that he has been suddenly
called away to England by the illness of his sister,
and to apologise for not having been able to call
and say good-bye to us,' continued Jeanne. ' He

particularly begs me to make his excuses to you,
madame.'

And so he is really gone ! ' said the Duchess.
I regret it very sincerely. He was an amiable
and entertaining young man, and I had become
accustomed to seeing him here. The house will
seem quite dull at first without him.'

We shall all miss Mr. Barrington,' observed
Leon ; ' and Jeanne more than any of us.'

'I shall miss him very much,' said Jeanne,
steadily ; ' but in any case he could hardly have
remained here much longer at this season of the
year. That is the worst of making friends with
birds of passage. As soon as one has got to
know them tolerably well they are off, and one
probably never sees them again.'

I should be sorry to think that we had seen
the last of Mr. Barrington,' remarked the Duchess.

Does he not speak of returning, Jeanne ? '

Oh, no ! He says something about meeting
us in Switzerland in the summer.'

I shall never be able to drag myself as far as
Switzerland,' sighed the old lady — ' never, I am
convinced. The next journey I shall undertake
will be a short one — only as far as the cemetery.
I dread the hot season here, but I will not run the

risk of dying in an hotel and leasing Jeanne
with all the trouble and inconvenience of arranging
about the funeral. If Leon could be with me, I
should not so much mind.'

I will certainly accompany you, madame,
if you wish it,' said Leon, speaking without
much alacrity.

No, no, mon enfant you have your own
affairs to attend to ; and, besides, I prefer to be
buried here. I have my piece of ground waiting
for me, as you know, and as soon as I have
arranged one or two little matters I shall be
ready enough to occupy it. By-the-bye, what
has become of M. de Saint-Luc ? It is a century
since I have heard of him.'

In this way Barrington's departure escaped
further remark ; and, for the next quarter o an
hour, the conversation turned chiefly upon matters
of local gossip. Jeanne took her share in it from
time to time, and was neither more nor less taciturn
than usual ; but M. de Fontvieille, who was
an observant old person, noticed that she left the
remainder of her breakfast untouched.

I suppose that everybody is, in a greater or
less degree, dowered with that blessed gift of self-deception
without which the infinite sadness of

life would become almost unendurable ; but some,
no doubt, are more highly favoured in this respect
than others. Jeanne, for instance, though
quite able, and even rather prone, to form a mistaken
estimate of characters and motives, had a
singularly clear vision and defective imagination
where facts were concerned ; and it was upon the
basis of facts, and not hypotheses, that she was
accustomed to shape her actions. Barrington's
letter left her no room for pleasant delusions
either as to his meaning or as to her own destiny.
She had said to herself the day before that he
should decide her fate ; and now he had emphatically
done so, though in a different manner
from that which she had anticipated. For her
she knew that there could henceforth be no more
uncertainty. The die was cast, and the remainder
of her life must be spent not with the man whom
she loved, but with one for whom, at that time, she
felt an absolute abhorrence. At the first moment
the one thing that seemed to her most necessary
was that she should so bear herself as that no one
should guess at the wound she had received ;
and of this task, as we have seen, she acquitted
herself not discreditably, failing only in that one
point of inability to swallow food.

When breakfast was at an end, lie betook
herself to her own room, and, sitting down before
her dressing-table, took the letter from her pocket,
and read it over again from beginning to end.
There was no misunderstanding it, she thought, as
she laid it gently aside without a shadow of resentment
against the writer. She was a hundred
miles from interpreting it correctly, and never
doubted of the necessity of Barrington's journey
to England ; but she plainly saw that, had he intended
asking her to be his wife, he would not
have left Algeria without doing so. How could
she have made so terrible a mistake ? That was
the question which was uppermost in her mind,
and which she asked herself over and over again
with bitter mortification. She — a woman in her
twenty-third year — a woman, too, who was not
by nature romantic, and had seen more of the
world and of men than ninety-nine French girls
out of a hundred are permitted to do — she to
confound intimacy with love, and to take a few
light words au grand serieiLV, like any child
of seventeen just released from the convent !
It was not an agreeable thought.

I have only myself to blame,' she murmm-ed.
'I have allowed myself to love him — Heaven

grant I may not have allowed him to see that
I love him ! — and now I must suffer for it. What
is done cannot be undone ; and, if it could, I
am not sure that I should wish it to be so ; all
that remains for me to do is to save the family
from disaster, and to gratify the wishes of all
my friends. It is a sort of consolation ; and
I care so little now what becomes of me, that
there is no fear of my courage failing — only
I wish M. de Saint-Luc were a little less contemptible.'


Jeanne was not altogether heroic. She was
ready and willing to make the great sacrifice
which, as she conceived, duty and affection required
of her ; but there she stopped short. Of
what she might owe to her future husband she did
not think at all. He had played a game of cards
for her, and lead won his stake ; let him be satisfied.
What more could such a man claim from
her than that she should carry his name untarnished
to her grave ? As for affection — allons
done ! ' I may forgive you in time, but him I
shall never forgive,' she had said to Leon the
day before ; and her altered circumstances had
produced no change in her sentiments. She had
already, in some sort, pardoned her brother, but

towards Saint-Luc she harboured no feeling save
one of ringlet anger and disdain.

Nor was she insensible of the tremendous
loneliness of her position. Self-reliant and self-contained
as she was, a chill ran through her
when she remembered that no living soul would
pity her ; that she would receive congratulations
from all sides upon an act of moral suicide;
and that, for the rest of her life, she must manage
to get on without the support of any sympathy.
Nothing but pride and utter indifference could
carry her through, she thought, as she slowly
descended the staircase, and stepped out into the
garden, where sympathy, in an unexpected form,
had been patiently waiting for her half an hour,
or more.

M. de Fontvieille, excellent man, had preserved,
under a thin veneer of cynicism of which
he was inordinately proud, a heart still open to the
generous impulses of youth, and easily touched
by any episode of a sentimental nature. Less
blind than the Duchess and Leon, he had honos
discerned the nature of the friendship which
had sprung up between Jeanne and the Englishman
; the incidents of the Kabylian excursion
had not been thrown away upon him ; by degrees,

his hope of seeing his protegee well married
to one of her own countrymen had yielded to a
kindly desire that her hand might follow where
her heart had already been given ; and, understanding,
as he did, the cruel nature of the blow
which had now fallen upon her, he was determined
that at least she should not lack such
solace as it is in the power of a sympathetic spirit
to bestow.

If Barrington, leaning over the taffrail of the
steamer, and gazing sentimentally up at the
wooded heights of El Biar, had been provided
with a sufficiently powerful telescope, he would
have made out, not the tall graceful form which
he fondly hoped might be stationed there, but a
grotesque little straw-hatted figure gesticulating
like a maronite, and from time to time shaking
a puny fist towards the sea.

Go, perfidious eneas ! ' cried the old gentleman,
apostrophising the faithless one in the style
of the year 1810. ' Go, and leave the noble and
unhappy Dido to consume upon the pyre of unrequited
love ! Go back to the chill fogs of thy
melancholy island, and languish there, a prey to
remorse and the spleen 1 Go — and the devil go
with thee ! '

Somewhat relieved by this outburst, M. de
Fontvieille strutted back towards the house, whence
poor Dido, a little pale and heavy-added, had just
issued. Removing his Panama hat, and bowing-more
profoundly than usual in homage alike to
beauty and misfortune, 'Mademoiselle,' said he,
I come to beg a favour of you. My collection
of gems '

'But, monsieur, I inspected them from the
first to the last only two days ago,' pleaded poor
Jeanne, who wanted to be left alone.

Pardon me, mademoiselle, there was one
drawer which you did not see then, and have
never seen yet. It is that which I propose tc>
show you to-day.'

But I must go to the dairy ; and I have the
linen to count, and '

Mademoiselle, I am convinced that your admirable
Fanchette is capable of replacing you for
an hour. For the rest, I will not detain you
long ; but I have a fancy to display my greatest
treasures to you to-day, and you are too kind to
thwart an old man's whim.'

]sot seeing her way to resisting this appeal,
Jeanne resignedly put up her parasol, and accepted
M. de Fontvieille's proffered arm. She would

have walked more comfortably alone, for she was
a good head taller than her companion ; and age,
together with the unconscionable tightness of his
varnished boots, had deprived him of absolute
control over his legs, so that it took a good deal
of humouring and management to keep his head
straight, and preserve him from sudden involuntary
inroads into the flower-beds ; but to decline
such an equivocal support would have been to
grievously affront the old gentleman, who held it
an essential point of courtesy to conduct all lady-visitors
to his door in this slightly ridiculous
fashion, and who to-day seemed anxious to surpass
himself in small marks of attention towards
his young guest.

When he had led Jeanne into his little dark
salon and had made her seat herself in the most
comfortable arm-chair that the room contained,
he trotted away, and returned presently, bearing
in his arms a worsted-work footstool, which he
placed under her feet, and, recovering his perpendicular
not without an effort, remarked triumphantly,
' Now we are at our ease ! '

Then he unlocked the folding doors of the
old-fashioned cabinet which held his precious
collection, and rapidly pulled out ths first few

drawers, closing them again without daring to
glance at their contents lest the temptation to
mount his hobby should prove too strong for him.
All these we have already seen,' he said, ' and I
will not fatigue you by going over them again,
though I have some rubies here which well merit
but no matter, let us proceed. You may perhaps
have noticed that I have never opened the lowest
drawer in your presence. There is nothing in it,
as you perceive, but an old leather case, which, to
tell you the truth, is not worth five francs, including
what it contains. But now I will tell you
something that will give you a little interest in it.
That leather case was made for me half a century
ago ; and from that day to this, nobody has ever
looked inside it but myself. If I may say so without
profanity, it is, in a manner, like those cMsses
which you may see in certain cathedrals, and
which are only opened once in every ten or
twenty years. They contain nothing more than
the usual fragments of the true cross, or garments
of the Blessed Virgin, or whatever it may be ;
but when the day comes for the exhibition of the
Grandes Reliques people flock from miles round
to contemplate them. And why ? Because they
cannot do so every day.'

VOL. II. G

He had been fumbling at his watch-chain
while he was speaking, and now he detached
therefrom a small gold key, which he pressed into
the lock of the case.

Voila mes Grandes Reliques, mademoiselle,'
said he, lifting the lid, and drawing back a step to
allow her to approach.

Jeanne bent forward, and saw very much
what she had expected to see — two or three
brown, withered flowers, which had once been
roses, a long kid glove yellow with age, a scrap
of ribbon, and a miniature representing a lady
with a high forehead, an enormous pair of black
eyes, and a little prim, smiling mouth.

'You do not find her beautiful,' remarked
M. de Fontvieille. ' Mon Dieu, you are right !
she never was so ; although I must say that that
miniature gives no more idea of what she was
than the photographs of the present day will do
of you and your contemporaries. It is only great
artists who can produce a faithful likeness, and
my poor Madeleine had not the means of paying
a great artist, or even a mediocre one. She was
only the daughter of a country gentleman of good
family, but small fortune, who lived all the year
round upon his property in the Bourbonnais, and

cultivated his vines, and knew little and cared
less about the outer world. His estate adjoined
that of an uncle of mine, and it was while upon
a visit to him that I first met Madeleine. I was
at that time about eight-ands twenty, and in many
respects an older man than I am now, when my
age may be nearly represented by the same figures
in reversed order. I had lived in Paris from the
day 1 had left my college ; I had tried every form
of pleasure, I had made myself acquainted witJi
every grade of society, and I flattered myself that
the world had no new sensation left to bestow upon
me. I was more than half tired of life, as young
men often are when their health begins to drive
way from the effects of dissipation, and when
they are up to the eyes in debt. I was sick of
dicing and brawling, and — and the rest of it ; and
yet I did not see how I was to kill time without
the help of these amusements. Li short, I was so
disheartened and disgusted with myself and my
prospects that I had more than once gravely debated
the advisability of entering a Trappist
monastery when I encountered Madeleine, one
sunny morning, in the village, and abandoned all
idea of taking vows for which I was perhaps
hardly fitted by nature.

G 2

'As I have already said, she was no great
beauty ; but she was as innocent as an angel, as
gay as a lark, and her manners had an easy, naive
grace which came from natural good breeding,
not from the acquired elegances of an artificial
society. There was a charm about her which
exceeded the charms of the grand monde to
which I was accustomed, as the fresh scent of a
tuft of wild thyme excels the sickly odour of the
stephanotis. It was not, however, for these
reasons, but simply because she was herself, that I
fell in love with her ; and if all the philosophers
in the world were to lecture to you upon the
origin of love, for hours together, they could give
you no clearer explanation of the phenomenon
than this. There are people, I firmly believe,
who go down to their graves, after a long life,
without ever having been in love at all. For
myself, although I was at one time somewhat
notorious for adventures of a kind which I can dono
more than allude to in conversation with you,
mademoiselle, and although I may have felt for
certain ladies a sentiment which, for want of a
better word, we dignify by the name of love, I
can assure you in all seriousness that I have only
been in love once.

Whether' my dear Madeleine was ever attached
to me in the same manner as 1 was to her,
I cannot say. Probably not. But, at all events,
she loved me well enough to make me as happy asa
king during the three weeks that I was betrothed
to her. At the expiration of that time our engagement
came to an end in the stupidest and
most commonplace way in the world. In order
to obtain her lather s consent to our union, I had
been compelled to deceive him a little as to the
state of my affairs, and especially to draw a veil
over the history of my life in Paris. A good-natured
relation of his, whom I had met some
half-dozen times in the capital, was kind enough
to tear down tins veil, and to exhibit to the worthy
man such a picture of my past career as caused
him to cry out in horror that he would never
entrust his daughter's happiness to the care of a
spendthrift and a libertine. In vain I protested
that I had repented of my evil ways, and was
determined to lead a new life. The risk was too
great, he said ; and, to put an end to further discussion,
he hastily betrothed Madeleine to one of
his neighbours, a sober, red-headed young man,
who had never done wrong in his life, through
sheer lack of sufficient originality to leave the

strictly religious groove into wliicli this parents
had pushed him.

'My poor little ^a^2Cg'6^ yielded without making
much resistance — she would as soon have thought
of cutting her father's throat as of disobeying him
and I went back to Paris, crazy with despair,
and ready to put an end to myself. As you perceive,
however, I did not do this. I continued
to exist ; and eventually married Madame de
Fontvieille, with whom I lived in perfect harmony
for twenty years. She was an excellent woman ;
she brought me a handsome dot ; and I never disturbed
her peace of mind by showing her the
poor relics which now lie before you. The fact
of my having preserved them is sufficient evidence
that through all that has come and gone —
through sorrow and mirth, sickness and health,
marriage and old age — I have remained faithful
in my heart to my only love. Perhaps if my
dream had been realised, I might have been less
constant ; I cannot tell. It is a common saying
that marriage kills love, but I am not convinced
that it does so in all cases. However that maybe,
I have always felt that I owe Madeleine not
only eternal love, but eternal gratitude. But for
her I might have never suspected the existence of

that divine spark in my nature which is conimou
to all human beings. I might have lived and
died like a beast, as thousands do. Having known
and loved her, I could never fall back again under
the sway of my five senseS; nor persuade myself
that the object of life was to gratify them. I
cannot boast of having performed many good
actions ; but if I have helped a fellow-creature
here and there, if I have forgiven an injury or
two, and abstained occasionally from harming
those whom I have been tempted to wrong,
the credit is Madeleine's. Ah, mon enfant ! this
world is a dismal purgatory, full of liars and
thieves and traitors and wretches of all kinds. It
would be impossible to believe in the ]perfectibility
of the species if we did not know that we are
capable of loving one another. Such, at least, is
my notion ; and that is why I conclude that to
have loved another is a thing to be thanked for
in itself, whether one succeed or fail in gaining the
object of one's desire.

Why have I told you this long history today?
Partly because I have bequeathed my
jewels to you, and I wish you, as soon as I am
dead, to take the case that you knov/ of, and,
without saying anything to anybody, to slip it

quietly into my coffin ; and partly because the
experiences of the old are sometimes a comfort to
the. young. If, by any chance, a man finds himself
in the midst of a sandy desert and is not very
sure whether he will ever escape from it, it is
something to come across the traces of others who
have passed by the same way, and who have

neither fainted nor died. It is something '

M. de Fontvieille stopped short, fearing lest he
might have said too much ; but Jeanne was not
offended. She had perceived from the outset
that her old friend had discovered her secret, and
she was not altogether sorry that it should be so.
Few people like to be openly pitied ; but there
are extremities in which even the proudest are
glad to think that some discreet person can understand
their trouble, and secretly feel for them.
Jeanne had listened to M. de Fontvieille's narrative
with genuine interest. This octogenarian weeping
over a withered rose, dilating upon the divine
origin of love, mixing up sentiment, vanity, and
bathos with the most innocent unself-consciousness,
had not appeared to her ridiculous. His fidelity
touched her; his ideas in some sort chimed in
with her own. If the mere delight of memory
had sufficed to brighten his Avhole life, why should

not the same source of consolation be open to
her ? It was true that as yet she could hardly
bring herself to fancy that it could be so. Her
wound was too fresh ; her heart ached with too
bitter a longing to see Barrington again, were it
but for an hour ; but time would doubtless bring
her more calmness. After all, the worst part of
the ordeal which lay before her was that of which
her would-be consoler knew nothing. The prospect
of a lonely life — of devoting herself to the
sendee of others, or of entering a convent — would
have had no terrors for her ; but to be chained for
the rest of her days to an uncongenial companion,
as the unhappy convicts used to be at the Toulon
hague — to knows that no escape from him was
possible, and to be forced, in sheer self-defence, to
treat him at least as a friend — what more unhappy
destiny than this could any woman accept ? Following
out this train of thought, she spoke at
length :

Why did you marry, monsieur r You were
not obliged to do so.'

M. de Fontvieille shrugged his shoulders.
Obliged ! — no ; but it seemed expedient. When
I gave up my old mode of life and my old companions
I was very dull. After a time I thought

the best thing I could do would be to ally myself
to a good, sensible woman who could contribute
her share towards the payment of the household
expenses ; and I assure you I never regretted
having taken the step. Marriage is an admirable
institution, but a trifle prosaic : the essential thing
is that the husband and wife should start by understanding
one another. I never pretended to
any romantic affection for Madame de Fontvieille,
nor did she ever look for anything of the kind
from me. You, who have been educated a little
a Anglaise probably regard marriages of convenience
with horror ; for my own part, I think
they are very good things. In every man's life
there comes a time when he feels the necessity of
having a home of his own, and domestic interests.
Women, from the nature of their position, must
experience the same want far more keenly. If
lovers are able to marry, so much the better for
them ; but I see no reason why two people who
esteem one another should not live together quite
contentedly without any warmer feeling. I
married Madame de Fontvieille because I required
a home, and I told her so honestly. I
never let her know that my heart belonged, and
would always belong, to another woman ; but if

she had happened to find it out, she would have
had no right to complain.'

You do not think, then, that it is wrong for a
woman to many one man, and continue to love
another ? '

M. de Fontvieille made a grimace. This was
not exactly the doctrine he had intended to inculcate,
and he felt that he was getting upon
dangerous ground.

Man Dieu ! ' he said, ' that depends a little.
In matters of this kind it is impossible to lay down
a general rule which will fit all cases. My object
in relating my o^^ti experience to you was to show
that it is a stood tinto have loved — even in

vain.'

No doubt,' answered Jeanne, gravely. ' I
have understood what you have meant,' she resumed,
after a short pause ; ' it would be absurd
to pretend that I have not, and I am grateful to
you for confiding in me, and sympathising with
me; but '

'My dear child,' cried M. de Fontvieille,
waving his yellow silk pocket-handkerchief, ' it
has been a sweet consolation to me to reopen my
old wounds in your presence. Only those who
have suffered themselves can truly feel for the

suffering. In future you will freely confide your
troubles to me — we will mingle our tears '

No broke in Jeanne, ' I am not one of those
who enjoy shedding tears.' Then seeing that the
old gentleman looked hurt, she added, ' You know
that if I could speak to anybody upon — the subject
you have alluded to, I would speak to you ;
but you must see that, for the future, the less said
about it the better. I shall not forget what you
have said, and you may be sure that I will carry
out your instructions about the little leather case
when the time comes. And now I must really
go to the dairy.'

Marvellous is the power of love ! ' ejaculated
M. de Fontvieille, after he had seen Jeanne to the
door, and had carefully locked up his precious
cabinet. ' Here is a woman who is told that
jewels to the value of some hundred thousand
francs will be hers in a few years' time at furthest,
and who does not think the announcement worth
so much as a word of notice. Ah, animal of an
Englishman ! what have you ever done to merit
such devotion ? '

CHAPTEE XVIII.

IX WHICH M. DE SAINT-LUC HEARS OF Something
TO HIS ADVANTAGE.

It is an ill wind that blows nobody any good —
even an east wind is welcome to outward-bound
ships — and Barrington's hasty exit from algeria,
if it caused some heart-aching in one quarter that
wee know of, was productive of nothing but unalloyed
delight in another.

Saint-Luc, as he stood upon his balcony, and
watched the EupJirate steaming slowly out of
harbour, rubbed his hands in glee, feeling that a
formidable obstacle had been removed from his
path. Whatever difficulties might yet intervene

between him and the successful issue of his suit

and he was not disposed to underrate either their
number or their magnitude — that of the presence
of a possible rival need no longer be included
among them ; nor would it henceforth be necessary
for him so to time his visits to the Campagne

de Mersac as that they should not clash with those
of the inevitable Englishman.

He rode up the same afternoon to inquire
whether Mademoiselle de Mersac had recovered
from her indisposition ; but he only left a card at
the door, without dismounting, fearing lest a too
speedy appearance upon the field so lately vacated
by the enemy might savour of undue precipitation.
In a like prudent spirit he refrained from
any endeavour to meet Jeanne until the return of
Madame de Breuil's weekly reception-day afforded
him an excuse for once more turning his horse's
head in the direction of El Biar ; and even then,
as it turned out, he failed to obtain the interview
he had hoped for.

Madame la Duchesse had discontinued her
receptions for the summer months, the servant
told him, in answer to his inquiry ; but he would
ask whether she was well enough to see monsieur.
Mademoiselle Jeanne had already gone out. Under
the circumstances, Saint-Luc did not much care
about being admitted; but as he could hardly
say so consistently with politeness, he waited at
the door, in a broiling sun, while the man departed
on his mission, and was presently rewarded by a
request that he would be so kind as to walk

upstairs, the Duchess being unable to leave her
bedroom.

The Duchess's bedroom was spacious, airy,
and luxuriously furnished. It belonged to the
modern portion of the house, and had nothing
Moorish either in its construction or in its appointments.
The low bedstead, with its lace-bordered
covering, the soft-cushioned chairs of all
shapes and sizes, the Louis XTV. writing-table, the
inlaid cabinets, and the numberless knickknacks
were as evidently of Parisian origin as was the
owner of all these pretty things, who, from the
sofa upon which she lay, with her quilted silk
peignoir wrapped about her, greeted Saint-Luc in
feeble and rather querulous accents.

Come in, monsieur, and sit down. I do not
apologise for receiving you here ; the bedroom of
a dying old woman is as much open to the world
as a chapelle ardente!

Saint-Luc, with the best possible intention, declared
that, if he might judge by appearances, he
was in the room of a lady who had a great many
years of life and health before her ; but his observation
was not well received.

Eh, eh ! what is the use of repeating such
basaltes as that,' cried the Duchess, petulantly.

• I am hundreds of years old, and I have ailments
enough to kill a Hercules. Add to that, perpetual
anxiety and worry, for which you are chiefly answerable.'


I, madame ? '

Certainly. You know that my one wish is
to provide a home for Jeanne before I take my
leave of her and of this troublesome world. How
many months is it that I have been waiting, waiting
to hear that you have arranged matters with
her?'

Madame, you will allow that I am just as
anxious as you can be to arrive at the result
which we both desire. But you will also allow
that the case is an exceptional one. And no
doubt, too, you will remember that when I formally
requested Mademoiselle de Mersac's hand,
shortly after my arrival in Algiers, you yourself
told me that I could never hope to obtain it in
that simple fashion, but that I must gain her affections
before her consent.'

sion Dieu, yes ; I told you that it would
be necessary to woo her a Anglaise ; but I
suppose that even the English put some limit to
their wooing. We do not live in the days of the
patriarchs ; and if you are content to play the

part of Jacob, I am not so sure that Jeanne is
prepared to accept that of Rachel, while it is
absolutely certain that I am no Eebekah. The
whole winter through you have been showering
bouquets and compliments and tender glances at
the girl, and for my part I cannot see that you
are any nearer the end than you were when you
started. To tell you the truth, M. de Saint-Luc,
you astonish me. It is inconceivable that you,
who, if half the stories one hears be true, know
how to make yourself irresistible among the ladies
of Paris, the most hastes women in the whole
world, should have any difficulty in captivating a
child Hke Jeanne.'

Saint-Luc smiled, and made a deprecating
gesture.

'The knowledge which you attribute to me,
madame, is not likely to help me much here. It
is precisely because my experience of your charming
sex has lain entirely within the limits of a
certain class that I am altogether at sea when I
am removed from it. It may be very ridiculous,
but it is unfortunately true, that I have no idea
how to set about attracting the affections of a lady
whom I not only love, but respect.'

Ah, bah ! All women are the same, my dear

VOL. II. H

Vicomte, and you ought to know it. It is not by-sighing
and looking piteous that you will obtain
anything of them. A lover who understands his
business neither argues nor entreats — he simply
takes what he wants.'

I doubt whether that method would succeed
with Mademoiselle de Mersac'

Why should it not succeed as well with her
as with another ? At least you might give it a
trial, for it would be better than your present
method— admitting that you have one. If you
will not even ask, how can you expect to receive? '

Supposing that I had already asked, and had
been refused ? '

What ! ' cried the old lady, starting up from
her recumbent position. ' Do you mean me to
understand that she has actually refused you, and
never said a word to me about it ? It is too bad !
But in that case there is no more to be said ; and
I have been wasting, Heaven only knows how
much good time and patience ! You are aware
that Jeanne is completely her own mistress. If
she has declined your offer, it is apparently because
you have failed to please her. I deplore her decision,
but I can assure you, if you do not know
it already, 'that I have no power to make her
alter it.'

I have no illusions upon that point, madame.
I have only a hope — a faint one, I admit — still
just a hope that, in process of time, she herself
may reconsider her choice. I am in every respect
unworthy of her ; but for all that, I think I can
offer her a more complete devotion than she is
likely to meet with elsewhere. All that I have to
trust to is the chance that she may sooner or later
discover this, and that it may have some influence
upon her.'

The Duchess did not seem to think much of
this forlorn hope. She pursed up her lips,
wrinkled her brow, and reflected.

You are too modest,' she said at length.
Keep on repeating to a girl that you are unworthy
of her, and the chances are that she will end by
believing you. It is possible that, as you say, you
may make her love you at last by mere force of loving
her. I have heard of cases of that kind, though
I cannot say that I have ever personally known of
such a one. But the truth is that the experiment
demands more time than we can give you, or than
you have a right to ask. Come, M. de Saint-Luc,
you are a man of the world, and you will not be
offended if I speak to you frankly. You, very
naturally and very prettily, look at this matter

from the romantic point of view. I, as naturally,
if not quite as prettily, view it in its practical
aspect. I have no ambitious or selfish aims to
serve ; all I wish is that Jeanne should get a good
husband and a comfortable home ; and I know
that, so long as I live, the connections which I
have still kept up will enable me to put such
chances in her way. When I am gone, the case
will be very different. Only this morning I had
a letter from France, telling me of two young-men,
highly suitable in every way, who are
anxious to settle down, and form an alliance with
some lady of good birth and moderate fortune.
For my own part, if I could see any reasonable
probability that your hopes Avould be realised, I
should ask nothing better than to send these
gentlemen about their business ; but candidly, do
you think I ought to do so ? '

You must act as you think best, madame,'
answered Saint-Luc with a sigh.

Yes ; but don't you see that if another suitor
is to appear upon the scene, your presence would
become a little embarrassing ? I think I may
fairly ask that this question should be settled now,
one way or the other. Repeat your proposal, and
let there be an end of it.'

That would be worse than useless. I admit
the justice of what you say, madame, and I am
ready to withdraw, if you ask me to do so ; but
I decline to subject myself to the certainty of a
second rejection.'

Then let me speak for you. Possibly I maybe
able to plead your cause more effectually than
you could do yourself. At all events, I can tell
you one thing for your comfort ; if there be the
faintest chance for you, I shall be much more
likely to discover it than you would be. I will
have a little talk with Jeanne to-night, and you
shall hear the result tomorrow morning.'

The result,' observed Saint-Luc, getting up,
and taking his hat, ' is not very doubtful. As
soon as I receive your intimation that it is all up
with me, I shall take my passage for Marseilles.
I love Mademoiselle de Mersac too well to remain
here as an obstacle in the way of her happiness,
or even of her convenience. But if, as is
possible, the two candidates whom you speak
of should prove no more fortunate than I have
been, I shall ask your permission to return some
day.'

You will not require my permission,' answered
the Duchess, a little touched bv so much

docility, ' but you shall have it, with all my heart
and my best wishes into the bargain.'

So Saint-Luc went his way sorrowfully ; and
being disposed neither for sleep nor society, sat up
nearly all the night through, with dull care to
keep him company. In the Duchess's powers of
persuasion he had no confidence at all, and he
was far indeed from suspecting what fruit his careless
suggestion, thrown out merely as a means of
quieting what appeared to him an absurd and
boyish scruple on Leon's part, had already borne.
All the more profound was his stupefaction when,
early the next morning, he received the following
brief note : —

What possessed you, my dear monsieur, to give
me violent emotions and upset my health without
any reason? I should be tempted to call you hard
names if I were not too contented to be vexed with
anybody. Jeanne, dear child, offers no opposition
whatever to our wishes ; and if you will lookin
upon us this afternoon, you shall hear from her
own lips what I hope you will consider good news.
To think that you should have reached your time
of life without discovering that when a woman
says no, she almost invariably means yes ! I
felicitate you, and press your hand cordially.

Louise de Breuil

If these few lines had been written in Chinese
instead of in the clearest and most explicit
French, they could not have puzzled Saint-Luc
more utterly. Between the time when they were
handed to him by his servant and that which he
deemed the earliest permissible for obeying the invitation
they conveyed, he had ample leisure to
peruse and re-peruse them till he had got them
by heart ; but at the end of all he could extract
from them no more agreeable deduction than that
there must be some mistake somewhere. It was
all very well for Madame de Breuil to reiterate
the old dictum that feminine negatives are usually
equivalent to affirmatives, but this, like most general
propositions, failed to hold water when applied
to a particular instance ; and Saint-Luc was neither
foolish enough to believe that Jeanne was in love
with him nor clever enough to guess at the true
state of affairs. He was, therefore, in no wise
sanguine or jubilant, and spent the greater part of
the day in pacing up and down his room, and in
exclaiming at intervals, ' It is impossible ! '

Thus it came about that M. de Saint-Luc displayed
less ease and aplomb upon the occasion of
his first meeting with his future bride than might
have been expected from a gentleman so renowned

for good breeding. Eor when he was shown into
the drawing-room, Jeanne rose, in her slow, stately-way,
from the sofa upon which she had been
seated, and advanced a few steps towards him,
holding out her hand, and behind her stood the
Duchess, all smiles, and Leon, smiling too, but
looking a little puzzled and anxious withal ; and
it was evident that he, on his part, was expected
to do or say something, and that nobody was
going to help him out with his task. No form of
polite dismissal would have found him unprepared,
and he would have known how, in such a case, to
retire without loss of dignity ; but so little had
he believed in his good fortune that he had
omitted to rehearse any scene in which he might
be called upon to act the part of an accepted
lover, and now, in his surprise and perplexity, he
searched in, vain for some appropriate words.

At length, after a pause, during which Jeanne
contemplated him with perfect impassibility, and
the Duchess began to fidget a little, he did what
was, perhaps, upon the whole, the best thing he
could have done, he took the cool white hand
offered to him, and bent respectfully over it, just
touching it with his lips. And as he did so, he
noticed that Jeanne shivered ever so slightly.

She returned to her sofa without any other display
of emotion, and then the Duchess's tongue
became loosened.

You see, monsieur, that I am not such a bad
ambassadress, after all. Have I acquitted myself
of my mission to your satisfaction ? Then come
and thank me, for I deserve some thanks. Ah,
how contented I am ! I am ten years younger
since yesterday. You will not get rid of me as
soon as you expect, perhaps. Henceforward you
will be as a son to me, for you know that I have
always looked upon Jeanne as my daughter.
Apropos, what is your Christian name ? Charles ?
What a comfort ! — that is a good name — a name
that can offend nobody. Do you know that I
have been tormenting myself all the morning
with a horrid fear that it might be Achille, or
Alcibiade, or something grotesque. It is a point
upon which I am rather particular. Once — I
shall never forget it — my poor father wished me
to marry a man named Leone. Happily there
were other objections to him, and the affair fell
through. Leone ! It would have been impossible
for me to address him without laughing. I
detest classical names — the Eepublic and the Empire
have vulgarised them for ever. Jeanne is a

pretty name, do you not think so ? But of course
you do. I am a silly old woman to ask such a
question.'

Under cover of this artillery of prattle Saint-luc
managed to collect his scattered ideas. By
the time that the old lady had paused for want of
breath, he had got his little speech ready, and he
delivered it in straightforward and unaffected
language.

You know, madam e — and so do you, Leon —
and so also does mademoiselle herself — how little
I have ventured to expect the happiness that has
come to me. All I can say is that I will do my
best to show myself worthy of it. It would be
ridiculous presumption on my part to assume that
mademoiselle has any such feeling for me as I
have for her — indeed, I know that it is not so.
But this I can promise to her, and to you all, that
if she ever comes to repent of her choice, it shall
not be through any fault of mine.'

He looked a little wistfully at Jeanne as he
spoke the last words, but she only inclined her
head slightly, without speaking, and he turned,
with a half sigh, towards Leon, who promptly
grasped him by the hand, thinking that the
proper thing to do under the circumstances, and

remarked felicitously that lie had always known
things would come right in the end, and had said
so, if Saint-Luc remembered, at Fort Napoleon.
Then, murmuring something about being obliged
to go to the stables, he slipped quietly away, and
when he was fairly out in the open air, drew a
long breath, and congratulated himself in that he
had passed over an uncertain piece of ground
without making any false steps.

In the drawing-room an awkward period of
silence supervened. Saint-Luc had said his say ;
Jeanne did not choose to speak at all ; and the
Duchess's spirits were somewhat damped by the
solemnity of the younger people.

I think I will go upstairs and rest for a little,'
she said, gathering up her shawl, her book, and
her other belongings ; ' all this excitement has
tired me. I shall find you here when I comedown
again no doubt,' she added to Saint-Luc,
who rose to open the door for her.

If mademoiselle will put up with my company
for so long,' he answered, trying to smile.

Jeanne had got up, when he turned round
after closing the door, and was standing, with her
elbow resting upon the mantelpiece, fanning herself
leisurely with one of those dried palmetto-leaves

which no Algerian lady is without during
the hot months.

Why not ? ' she asked, replying to his last
remark, although it had not been addressed to
her. ' We shall have to put up with one another
now until one of us dies.'

The prospect is not an agreeable one to
you, mademoiselle, I fear,' said Saint-Luc, stung
through all his humility by her cool contempt.

Not very ; but it does not much signify. It
is unfortunate for me that I was brought up to
think that girls should choose their own husbands,
as they do in England. In my case it has turned
out a mistake ; and in truth I suppose it is better
that every nation should keep to its own customs.
Let us endeavour to think that I am altogether
French, and that our betrothal is one of the ordinary
kind. You marry me because you wish to
settle down, and I marry you because my family
desire it. There need be no question of love
between us.'

Pardon me, there is a great deal of love ; but
it is all on one side. I do not complain of that ;
but, mademoiselle, I love you so dearly that I
would far rather go away now, and never see you
again, than condemn you to a life of unhappiness.

If, as it seems, I can inspire you with nothing
but repugnance, why ? '

Why have I accepted you ? I thought I had
already answered that question. Because my
family wish it. For the rest, I did not mean you
to understand that you were repugnant to me. I
certainly do not love you — after what passed
between us at Fort Xapoleon you must be aware
of that ; but I shall do my duty ; I shall try to
like you, and — respect you, if I can.'

'Be it so, I do not despair. Love begets
love, they say, and some day I may gain yours.'

Pray, pray do not expect that'* returned
Jeanne, with great earnestness. ' It can never be.
I am not submissive, and I am not always good-tempered,
I am afraid ; but I will do my best to
make your home comfortable if you will not talk
about love. More than that I cannot do ; — and
you cannot expect more,' she added, with a touch
of defiance.

I am contented,' answered Saint-Luc, looking,
however, a little sad over it.

The man's excessive meekness exasperated
Jeanne. The colour mounted into her cheeks,
and she tore off a corner of her palmetto fan and
crushed it between her fingers.

I cannot in the least understand you ! ' she
exclaimed half involuntarily. ' It seems to me
that you are doing a very foolish thing ; but I
suppose you must be the best judge of your own
actions, and at any rate 1 have not deceived you.
And now I have something to say which had
better be said at once and done with, for it is
about a disagreeable matter which I do not intend
to allude to again. I wish you to know that
Leon has told me about the money which he lost
to you at cards, and about the manner in which
you and he seem to have agreed that it should be
paid.'

Saint-Luc looked vexed. ' I wish Leon had
not spoken to you about that silly affair,' he said.
It was all a misunderstanding. There is no real
debt at all ; but he took an absurd notion into
his head that he was bound to pay me an immense
sum which I never had the remotest intention
of accepting from him ; and he was so
obstinate over it that, to quiet him, I suggested
the first way out of the difficulty that occurred tome.
I am sorry now that I did not happen to
hit upon some other solution, because, as things
have turned out, it may look to you as if I had
presumed too much upon the probability of your

accepting my second offer. Soothing could be
further from the truth, I assure you ; and I need
hardly say that I never imagined that any account
of the transaction would reach your ears.'

I should have thought you must have known
that Leon has no secrets from me. But that does
not much matter. In any case, I must have been
told before the money could have been paid.'

I had hoped that, as there need be no actual
transfer of coin, he and I would have been able to
arrange the matter without troubling you about it.
But, to tell you the truth, mademoiselle, I did not
give much thought to the details ; as I told you
before, the debt is a purely imaginary one.'

Jeanne bit her Hp. Behaving, as she did,
that her present unlucky plight was the result of a
deliberate plan laid by Saint-Luc, it cost her an
effort to refrain from openly charging him with
needless duplicity. Nothing coidd justify his behaviour
; but if he had thrown himself upon her
mercy, pleading his love for her as his excuse, he
might perhaps have been allowed the benefit of
an extenuating circumstance. As it was. there
was nothing to be said for him.

I do not understand how a debt can be
imaginary,' she answered coldly. ' If Leon lost

the money to you, he owes it to you, and will
pay it. Let us treat it simply as a matter of
business, if you please. I am not quite certain
as to what legal rights our marriage may give
you over my property, and it is not desirable that
anyone but ourselves should know of this unfortunate
business. I desire, therefore, to have your
solemn assurance that you give up all claim to
255,800 francs of my dowry.'

The business-like air with which this very
unbusiness-like demand was enunciated might
have provoked Saint-Luc to a smile if he had not
been too much hurt to see the comical side of the
situation.

'I pledge you my word of honour, mademoiselle,
that it shall be so,' he said ; ' and I will
bind myself by an oath if you feel any fear of
my robbing you. But, believe me, you are attaching
a ojreat deal too much importance to a
stupid blunder. Will you permit me to give
you my version of the story ? '

No, thank you. I have your promise that
you will not oppose my handing over the requisite
sum to Leon, and that is sufficient. I
do not wish to hear another word about the
matter.'

• Very well. I also should be glad to let the
whole thing be forgotten, only I flinched you
were blaming me '

I am blaming nobody,' interrupted Jeanne,
with sudden u-ritabihty. ' Pray do not harp upon
it ; let us talk of something else.'

Saint-Luc did not press the point. In spite of
Jeanne's assurances, he perceived plainly that he
was being condemned unheard ; but he was content
to waive his right of self-defence in deference
to the will which was henceforth to be his
law. Deliberately, and of his own choice, he
bowed his neck beneath the yoke, saying, with
a smile —

As you please. I will never say or do
anything that is disagreeable to you, if I can
avoid it,' and then began to talk about the
Governor-general's ball.

If Madame de Tremonville could ha e been
present in the spirit — if she could have seen
her silent partner of the previous evening putting
forth all his conversational powers in the
vain effort to interest his indifferent hearer, and
Jeanne scarcely so much as pretending to listen
to him — she would have felt that her prophetic
sketch of Mademoiselle de Mersac's married life

VOL. II. I

was justified before the event, and her respectful
admiration for M. de Saint-Luc would probably
have suffered some diminution. Who, indeed,
respects humility in this world? The virtue is
so rare a one that most people fail to recognise it
when they see it, and usually set it down as
one of the meaner vices. It must be admitted
that Jeanne, who ought perhaps to have known
better, was in no wise propitiated by her lover's
submissiveness. She did not understand that it
was an exaggerated sense of his own unworthiness
that made Saint-Luc mentally prostrate himself
before her ; she saw only the ignoble, crouching
attitude, and trod him under foot without
compunction.

Why will you insist upon it that I am always
in the right ? ' she exclaimed once, rather
cruelly. 'Surely I must be wrong sometimes!
Let us try to discover some point upon which
we can differ, or we shall never agree.'

But this was some days later, after Jeanne
had had to put up with a long course of unbroken
acquiescence. Upon this first afternoon
she bore two hours of Saint-Luc's society without
open murmuring, and suffered him to depart

at last ^vith uo worse punishment than a somewhat
curt dismissal.

It is time for me to go and dress for dinner
she said. ' I suppose you will be coming here
every day now. I am always busy in the morning,
but after three o'clock you will generally
find me disengaged. Good-bye.'

CHAPTEE XIX.

JEANNE Quarrels WITH FANCHETTE, AND Leon
SINGS THE 'MARSEILLAISE.'

Human nature, even in its moods of highest self-abnegation,
is still apt to retain a sufficient remnant
of love for self to long for the applause or gratitude
of fellow-mortals. Curtis, when he resolved
upon immolating himself upon the altar of
patriotism, arrayed himself, it will be remembered,
in a suit of shining armour, mounted a prancing
war-horse, and disappeared into the gulf with the
eyes of the awe-struck citizens upon him, and
their murmurs of mingled admiration and pity in
his ears. The sacrifice would have been equally
efficacious, it is to be presumed, and the chasm as
permanently closed, if he had walked quietly
down to it, after nightfall, and slipped in, without
saying a word to anybody. But he probably felt
himself entitled to a more dramatic ending, and

who shall blame hmi? Damon, waiting on the
scaffold for the tardy Pythias, while the headsman
stood by his side and the last sands ran out of the
hour-glass, was a spectacle so sublime that the
tyrant Dionysius is said to have been moved by it
to make one of the silliest requests ever recorded
in history or fiction. Had Damon risked his life
in some commonplace manner, such as dragging
his friend out of a duckpond, he would not have
been sublime at all, and would, therefore, have
been the more heroic ; while, if he had smilingly espoused
a hideous heiress in order to pay Pythias's
gambling debts, he would have accomplished a
feat unsurpassed in the annals of friendship or love.
There is no sacrifice so great but that gratitude
will render it bearable, and none too small to be
magnified into a burden by absence of recognition.
Jeanne de Mersac, who was about to lay down
her life for her brother in a sense which, without
any figure of speech, was far more terrible to her
than death, could not but feel it no slight addition
to her unhappiness that he should be precluded
from appreciating her devotion. It was, of
course, inevitable that he should be kept in ignorance
of the motives which had actuated her in
accepting M. de Saint-Luc ; but there was little

consolation in that thought; and, moreover,
Jeanne could have found it in her heart to wish
that he should at least have guessed at what
seemed so obvious, were it only that she might
have had the satisfaction of quieting his fears.
But he apparently felt no anxiety, and, at all
events, did not display any. As far as his sister
could understand his feelings, he was satisfied
with the arrangement, though not overjoyed at it,
and desirous chiefly to avoid meeting Saint-Luc,
or mentioning his name.

It was, perhaps, in some degree through
Jeanne's own fault that a certain coolness and
estrangement sprang up at this time between her
and her brother. She informed him of her engagement
briefly and without comment, speaking
in a certain cold, matter-of-fact voice, the sound of
which was well known to Leon, and which had,
from his boyhood up, always had the effect of
overawing him. He looked surprised, but did not
say very much in reply ; nor was it until Jeanne
had begun to talk about something else that he
remarked hesitatingly —

I thought, after what you said the other day
about Saint-Luc '

Never mind what I said the other day,* she

interrupted. ' I was in a romantic mood the
other day — I am not often in a romantic mood,
am I? — and I daresay I talked a good deal of
nonsense. I told you that I would not marry M.
de Saint-Luc because I did not love him ; but
now I think that objection need not stand in my
way. If I could have loved him it would have
been better ; but as I cannot, I must be satisfied
with knowing that my marriage with him
will be a good thing in other ways.'

Leon ought undoubtedly to have inquired in
what ways, but he did not. He contented himself
with murmuring something about Saint-Luc's
excellent qualities, and almost immediately Jeanne
left him. How far he was aware of the true
causes of his sister's change of opinion it would be
difficult to say ; probably he managed to persuade
himself that his own embarrassed position was only
one of them. ]■

Partly from a long-standing habit of acquiescence
in all Jeanne's decisions, partly because it
was so very desirable that she should marry
Saint-Luc, and partly because he really believed
that such a marriage would tend to secure hec
own happiness, he refrained from asking further
questions, and dismissed the subject from his mind

with an inward declaration that everything had
happened for the best.

All this did not, however, prevent him from
feeling guilty and uncomfortable in his sister's
company, nor her from noticing his altered
manner, and resenting it ; and as Jeanne, for all
her self-possession, was no adept at concealing her
displeasure from those whom she loved, home
soon became rather a dreary place to the young
marquis, who liked laughter and soft speeches,
and pleasant, smiling faces to welcome him, and
who had been so accustomed all his life to these
agreeable surroundings that he had come to look
upon them almost as his right. The upshot of it
was that he absented himself as frequently and
for as long periods as he was able.

Thus Jeanne found that she must bear lev
burden in solitude, or in society that was worse
than solitude. M. de Fontvieille, good man, had
been a little shocked by the precipitancy with
which his philosophical teaching had been acted
upon. He would have preferred that Jeanne
should have consecrated at least a year to tears
and regret; and though he was always kind to her
in a fussy, rather troublesome way, made no
further allusion to sentimental topics. The

Duchess, excited, talkative, and gleeful, was a
very trying companion ; and M. de Saint-Luc was
simply intolerable. To escape from him now
became the chief aim of Jeanne's life. Lie had a
hundred excuses for being out when he called, or
for leaving him soon after his arrival. Her wedding
had been fixed to take place in the beginning
of September, and the necessity for supervising the
progress of her trousseau afforded her a pretext
for constantly escaping to the convent of El Biar
or to the school for Arab girls in the town, to
neither of which establishments were gentlemen
admitted.

Upon occasions, however, she was compelled
to sit through a long tete-astute with her future
husband, and then that unlucky scapegoat had a
troublous time of it. Never was man more
persistently snubbed, more pitilessly disdained ;
and never was unmerited cruelty more patiently
borne.

When nature is asked to carry a heavier
weight than her strength is equal to, the habitual
qualities which make up a human character are
apt to give way in one place or another. The
generous are not always generous, nor the just
always just. Great men have often stooped to

mean actions, and good men to heartless ones,
thereby sorely perplexing their biographers, who
seem to think that inconsistency requires some
explanation. In the everlasting fight between the
good and evil parts of our nature, the victory,
even in the best of us, cannot always be for the
right side.

Long afterwards. Jeanne, looking back upon
those sultry summer weeks during which she had
stood with her back to the wall, fighting against
despair — looking back, and viewing men and
events in the changed light which time had
thrown upon them — knew not which to wonder
at most, her own unremitting virulence or Saint-luc's
forbearing gentleness. She had learnt then
to appreciate that kind, faithful heart, and could
never think of the remorseless stabs which she
had inflicted upon it without an aching pain at
her own. Even at the time her conscience smote
her occasionally when her victim winced under
her sharp speeches — for, after all, it is but poor
sport to attack one who will not retaliate — but if
she relented at all, it was only after his, back was
turned. The sound of his step in the hall was
sufficient to chase away any rising compassion
from her breast. i ,

C est plus fort que moi' she said one day, in
answer to a remonstrance from Fanchette, who
had overheard part of a conversation between the
betrothed couple, and who was in the habit of
using an old servant's privilege of speaking plainly
to her mistress when so minded. ' I do not want
to be rude — I despise myself for being rude — but
help it I cannot. He irritates my nerves beyond
all bearing. I sit still and listen to him as long as
I can ; I bite my tongue to make it keep silent ;
and then at last he gives me an opportunity of
saying something that I know will hiu-t his feelings ;
and I feel that I must say it or die.'

The old woman held up her wrinkled hands
in amazement.

'I do not recognise you. Jeanne,' she exclaimed.
' You to take a dehcrht in hiu-tinor
another's feelings ! — it is not like you. And that
poor gentleman, too, who is so good — so generous
'

Generous ? ' interrupted Jeanne, with a short
laugh. 'Oh, if he has been generous to you,
Fanchette, you have, of course, a good reason for
liking him. He has never given me any money,
you see, so that he has not the same claim upon
my gratitude.'

He has given you this heart, which is worth
more than money,' cried the old nurse, reddening.
And it is not at my age, and after thirty years
of service in one family, that I should be accused
of taking bribes, mademoiselle. And a pair of
spectacles is not money, even if they be mounted
in gold. Never, since I have been in this house,
has any gentleman dared to offer me a present,
except as a mark of esteem. Money, indeed ! I
have money of my own in the bank, as you know
very well ; and I could treat myself to fifty pairs
of spectacles tomorrow without being ruined, if
I felt so inclined. Decidedly, Jeanne, you are
losing your head if you believe that old friends
and honest folks are capable of such baseness.'
And Fanchette hobbled off in deep dudgeon.

Poor Jeanne was like a wounded animal ; her
first impulse was to turn upon those who laid a
finger upon her hurts, and she could not always
restrain herself from yielding to it. Her temper
at this time was certainly not angelic ; but the
worst that could have been said of her has now
been said. No one, except Saint-Luc, had much
cause to complain of her conduct. Outsiders remarked
no change in her, unless it were a slight
increase of taciturnity, nor was it generally suspected

that she was otherwise than satisfied with
her destiny. The good sisters at the convent, in
whose cool parlour she spent a great part of her
days, thought her softened and improved ; the
little colony of poor and sick people whom she
visited as usual rejoiced in the receipt of an increased
bounty, and united in shrill lamentations
over the too probable departure of their benefactress;
the children at the Arab school lifted their
little brown faces fi'om their work and showed
their white teeth when the beautiful, tall lady
over whose trousseau they were busy came in,
bringing the bag of bonbons which they had
learned to expect with her.

With all these worthy people, who were not
of her world, Jeanne could get on well enough ;
but to receive the congratulations of her friends,
to reply to their inquisitive questionings and
parry their amiable innuendoes, was less easy.

The story of Leon's gambling fiasco had
leaked out, as such stories will do, and, in a more
or less garbled form, had reached the ears of
nearly all his acquaintances. Of these, some few
were content to shrug their shoulders, remark
that the young fellow was going to the devil, as
they had always said he would, and to greet

Saiiit-Luc with the additional respect due to a
man of such evident ability ; but the majority,
and especially the old ladies, were not going tolet
so delicious a bit of scandal die out without
examining into its details. Taking the news of
Leon's heavy losses in conjunction with that of
his sister's engagement to the winner, they were
unanimously of opinion that there was more in it
all than met the eye ; and, further, that the subject
was one which demanded, and would repay,
careful sifting. Their congratulatory visits, therefore,
were marked by sundry hints and insinuations
which mystified the Duchess while they
greatly alarmed Jeanne, in whom an incapacity
for prevarication and a fine belief in the wickedness
of lying had been implanted by her father,
much to her subsequent inconvenience.

That the gossips would ere long have wormed
the truth out of her is beyond a doubt, had not
Saint-luc luckily got wind of their suspicions and
taken prompt measures to suppress them. He,
poor fellow, had lived in a society which takes
broad views of morality, and he had no scruple
whatever in seeking out those old ladies, questioning
them as to the information they had received,
and meeting their statements with a categorical

denial. He then went to M. de Monceaiix,
and made use of such brief and pithy arguments
as to convince that gentleman that his life depended
upon his contradiction of the reports which he
admitted having had some share in spreading.
De Monceaux made a wry face, but as he was
always willing to obHge a friend in an inexpensive
way, and, besides, infinitely preferred eating
his words to being run through the body, he took
occasion to pay a round of visits on the following
day, and to mention, in the course of conversation,
that he had been made the victim of a
foolish hoax in the matter of young de Mersac's
supposed losses — the stakes being, in reality, payable
in soils and not in napoleons, as had been
pretended.

Among those who experienced a natural feeling
of disappointment at this announcement was
Madame de Tremonville, whom de Monceaux met
at her door in the act of ahorhtinor from her carriage.
She had just returned from the Campagne
de Mersac, whither she had betaken herself
primed with acid-sweet congratulations, only to
be refused admittance, and was consequently in
no mood to wish her neighbours well.

A hoax ? ' she repeated incredulously, when de

Monceaux had Concluded his brief explanation.
'That sounds very improbable. Why should
they have wished to make you think that they
were playing for gold instead of copper?'

'Oh, as for that, I was not the only one taken
in,' replied de Monceaux, with ready mendacity.
De Mersac himself fully believed at the time that
he was ruined ; and a fine fright he had. It was
Saint-Luc who contrived to deceive him about the
stakes, and to make him suppose that he had lost
about four hundred times as much as he really
had. His object was to induce the young fellow
to renounce gambling by showing him what it
might lead him to, as the Spartans used to exhibit
a drunken man to their sons, by way of disgusting
them with intemperance. And I understand that
he has succeeded.'

What kindness ! and what morality ! M. de
Saint-Luc is really becoming too good for the
society of such sinners as you and I. And to
think that his pupil lias also been mine ! — with a
difference. For while he has been striving to
wean the ]poor little Marquis from the amusements
of this life, I have been doing my small
best to introduce him to them.'

'Saint-Luc has more than once, in my presence,

warned young de Mersac against the dangers
of this house,' observed M. de Nouveaux, remembering
that he owed his friend one. ' I fear
that you will lose your pupil, madame.'

You think so ? ' returned Madame de Grenville,
with a scornful laugh. ' Stay and dine
with us, and I flatter myself that before the
evening is over you will have changed your
mind. The Marquis makes his appearance in the
drawing-room as punctually as the coffee. To
tell the truth, I was beginning to find him terribly
wearisome, and was thinking of giving him his
cone ; but since M. de Saint-Luc permits himself
to caution people against visiting me, I shall let
him see that my friends come here when I please,
and as often as I please.'

Non vides quanto moves periculo,
Pyrrha, Gsetulse carlos leeenae ? '

murmured de Monceaux, as he followed the Httle
lady into the hall. He added aloud, ' Madame,
no one knows better than I do that you are irresistible,
but is it worth while to waste your time
in making a slave of a raw lad ? I can answer
for one full-grown man who requires no persuasion
to cast himself at your feet, and who — '
It will be worth while if it amuses me,' .

II. K

interrupted Madame de Tremonville, disregarding
this flattering avowal. But she meant that it
would be worth while if it annoyed Saint-Luc.

M. de Monceaux cared very little whether
Leon were subjugated or no ; but he liked a good
dinner, and knew that Madame de Tremonville
had a chef (passing rich upon thirty pounds a
year) whom many a London club might have
envied. Moreover, he thought it more than likely
that a game of baccarat would be proposed before
the evening was at an end, and baccarat was a
form of gambling which usually brought him luck.

As the dinner-hour drew near, three young
officers, evidently habitues of the house, entered ;
and shortly afterwards the whole party sat down
to table, without waiting for M. de Tremonville,
who had not yet returned from his bureau.

'My husband is very busy just now,' the lady
of the house remarked casually, as she finished
her soup. ' One can never tell at what hour he
may come in. For the last three days he has
been perpetually receiving and sending off telegrams.
By-the-by, messieurs, I hope you are all
fond of Ehine wine, for I think you will drink
very little else this autumn.'

Bah ! there will be no war,' said one of the
officers.

And why not, pray ? ' asked Madame de
Tremonville, smiling in the superior fashion of one
behind the scenes.

Firstly, because I have no luck ; secondly,
because the Prussians are not ready ; and thirdly,
because it is impossible to declare war without a
pretext. Besides, the Emperor is growing old,
and the Mexican affair has damped his ardour for
glory. We have already inflicted a humiliation
upon the Prussians by making them withdraw
their Prince Leopold, and, for my part, I scarcely
see wdiat more we should gain by a successful
campaign.'

'Prestige, and the left bank of the Shines"'
answered M. de Monceaux, holding up his wine
to the glow of the sunset.

The revenge of Sadowa,' said another.

And of Nikolsburg,' added a third.

You none of you understand the situation,'
said Madame de Tremonville. 'If the Emperor
declares wear, it will not be for the sake of glory
or prestige — France has enough of both — nor to
avenge fancied slights, nor even to rectify the
eastern frontier — though that may become a political
necessity — but to ensure peace. The Empire
is peace ; the country desires peace. We shall

have it ; but to obtain it we must make up our
minds to pass through a short struggle. When
our victorious armies enter Berlin, the tranquillity
of Europe will be assured for the next half-century.'


Madame de Tremonville was as ignorant of the
history of past campaigns as she was of politics and
of the art of war ; but she was not more ignorant
than the newspaper writers from whom she derived
her information, such as it was ; and, in common
with the immense majority of her compatriots, she
had a blind confidence in the reigning dynasty. ' As
for a pretext,' she resumed, ' that is easily found ;
and if we cannot discover one, we shall take the
liberty of going to war without any. War is unavoidable,
and we must take advantage of the first
favourable moment to declare it.'

'Ah, there is the question,' remarked the
officer who had spoken first. 'Is the present
moment a favourable one for up. ? '

Madame de Tremonville turned upon him with
sovereign contempt. ' Monsieur de Marcy,' said
she, ' do you take his Majesty the Emperor for an
imbecile ? Is it likely that he would declare war
if he were not sure of success ? '

War is not yet declared,' said de Monceaux ;

and I confess that I am a little of M. de Marcy's
opinion. I think the Government will be satisfied
with having given King William a slap in the
face, and will go no further. I believe we are a
match for the Prussians ; but they are good soldiers,
and Berlin is a long way from Paris, and we
have no allies.'

No allies ? ' cried Madame de Tremonville.
Wait a Kettle. I know from a sure source that
Austria will join us as soon as the first shot is
fired. Bavaria and Nuremberg, who can put
some 80,000 men into the field between them,
must follow suit. In this way Prussia, with an
army of something like 700,000 men, including
the reserves, will be hemmed in by forces amounting
in all to 1,600,000 ; that is to say, that she
will be outnumbered in the proportion of considerably
more than two to one. If you think that
is not enough to put King William back in his
place, I will throw you in Hanover, who has been
awaiting her opportunity for four years past.'

These imposing figures did not fail to produce
their effect upon the company, no member of
which had sufficient knowledge of his own to
verify or dispute them ; and Madame de Grenville,
having secured the respectful attention of

lier audience, went on to expatiate upon the probable
future policy of the conquering Emperor.
With her enemies crushed, with the temporal
power of the Pope assured, with religion freed
from disturbing influences, and the machinations
of disaffected plotters rendered abortive by the
contentment of the nation, France would be at
liberty to devote herself to the fulfilment of
her destiny — that of leading the world in the
path of civilisation. The standing army might
be reduced, taxation diminished, and a new
era of government, combining the blessings of
constitutional freedom with those of order and
discipline, inaugurated. Under the benevolent
sway of a dynasty secure alike against aggression
abroad and treason at home, industry
would take a fresh start, science would be encouraged,
the arts fostered, and, lastly, a Court
would gather at the Tuileries which for brilliancy,
refinement, and elegance would surpass any known
to history or tradition. Madame de Tremonville
waxed so enthusiastic over this portion of her
subject that she pursued it without intermission
until dinner was at an end, and carried it with
her into the drawing-room afterwards. She was
predicting the speedy advent of a somewhat equivocal

millennium when the entrance of Leon
diverted her thoughts into another channel, and
recalled her to actualities.

How late you are ! ' she cried, greeting the
infatuated youth with a reproachful look which
set his silly heart beating.

On the contrary, madame, I am ten minutes
before my usual time,' he answered innocently.

But when I tell you that you are late ! Do
you not know, M. de Mersac, that a well-bred
man never contradicts a lady P You are unpardonably
rude this evening.'

Madame, I apologise most humbly.'

On your knees, then, or I will not forgive
you.'

The young idiot actually plumped down upon
his knees in the middle of the room, and Madame
de Tremonville, darting a mischievous glance over
her shoulder at de Monceaux, gravely accorded
the desired pardon.

But we must have no disloyal subjects here
this evening,' she added. 'When you came in,
M. le Marquis, we were discussing the prospects
of war. At such a time as this you must waive
considerations of party, and cry '' Vive Empereurs''
or we shall send you home again.'

Madame ! '

Do as I command you, or retire. Our patriotism
will be content with nothing less.'

Vive Empereurs' ejaculated Leon in such
lugubrious accents that there was a general outburst
of laughter.

Bravo ! ' cried Madame de Tremonville, patting
him approvingly on the shoulder. ' You have
said your lesson well, and you shall have your
reward. I will sing to you, and you shall turnover
my music for me.'

What fascination was there about this vulgar
little woman that could induce Leon, who, after
all, was a gentleman, though a foolish one, to
parade his subjection to her in so public a fashion?
There is no answer to such questions ; but the
phenomena which suggest them may be witnessed
any day nearer home than Algeria. The young
marquis was not the first man who, falling a victim
to the enchantments of this Circe, had been forced
by her to exhibit himself to the world in a shape
half melancholy, half contemptible. It soothed
her self-love to see her admirers grovelling before
her ; and on this particular evening, the boast
which she had made to de Monceaux caused her
to be more capricious and imperious than usual.

She made Leon fetch and can for her like a dog;
she bullied and petted him by turns ; and to show
his perfect docility, ordered him first to sing
Partant pour la Syria,' which he did with a very
bad grace, and then to read aloud a newspaper
article in which a lively historical parallel was
drawn between the Comte de Chambord and Eip
van Winkle.

It was an exhibition of much the same nature
as may be seen in any travelling menagerie. An
elephant balancing his unwieldy body upon an
inverted tub, firing a pistol with his trunk, and
raising himself clumsily upon his hind legs is nota
beautiful, an imposing, or even a comical spectacle
; but there are people who think such sights
worth paying for, and de Monceaux was very
well amused by Leon's performance, though the
other young men, who all this time were left to
entertain one another, thought it a trifle tedious.

A diversion was at length created by the appearance
of M. de Tremonville, who walked into
the room looking tired and harassed, and with no
trace of his customary smiling, official sleekness
about him.

Messieurs,' said he, taking off his spectacles
and rubbing them slowly with his silk pocket-handkerchief,

' I bring yon the news of the declaration
of war."

A volley of exclamations and questions greeted
this announcement. Everybody began to speak
at once. When had the news arrived? Was it
certainly true ? Had France or Prussia declared
war? What was the cause assigned?— and so
forth. When M. de Tremonville could get a
hearing, he satisfied the impatience of his questioners
to the best of his ability. The Governor-general
had received a telegram announcing that
the King of Prussia having refused to give audience
to M. Benedetti, diplomatic relations between the
two countries had been broken off, and that an
aide-de-camp was now on his way to Berlin with
the formal declaration of war. The Chasseurs
d'Afrique were under orders to proceed immediately
to France, and other regiments were to
follow as soon as transports could be got ready
to embark them. The Governor-general himself
was to take command of an army corps, and would
probably leave in the course of a few days. It
was said that the Emperor would assume the 
in person. M. de Tremonville communicated
all this intelligence soberly, almost
dolorously, for the turn that affairs had taken

inspired him ^vith some anxiety. He was not a
specially far-sighted man, but he had a keen eye
to his own interests, and he perceived that, whatever
brilliant prospects an appeal to arms might
hold out to military men, it could offer none
whatever to bureaucrats. To the latter class
victory would bring no advancement, whereas a
disaster, which would undoubtedly hurl the Emperor
Napoleon from his throne, would only too
certainly sweep away a large proportion of his
vivian employed with him. ' C est fdcheux^ murmured
M. de Tremonville in conclusion, as he
rubbed his spectacles.

But nobody paid any attention to him — least
of all his ^\ife. That patriotic lady had seated
herself before the piano, and now, after striking a
few stirring chords, broke forth into the first
words of the Marseillaise. Her shrill voice rang
through the house —

Aliens enfants de la patrie,
Le jour de gloire est arrive ! '

Join, all of you, at the end of the verse,' she
cried ; and her enthusiasm gained the company.
They arranged themselves in a group behind her,
and presently the ears of the passers-by on the

high road caught the first sound of a chorus which
was soon to become very familiar to them —

Aux amies, citoyens !
Formez vos bataillons.'

Leon, to whom this revolutionary song was
anathema — M. de Monceaux, who was past the
age for enthusiasm — Madame de Tremonville,
who in her heart cared for neither dynasty, nor
country, nor any person or thing except herself,
all forgot themselves in a sudden access of exaltation,
and sang at the highest pitch of their voices,
concluding with a tremendous shout of ' Vive la
France ! '

Meanwhile, M. de Tremonville, unmoved in
the midst of all this excitement, continued to rub
his spectacles in the corner where he was seated
apart, murmuring • Cestfdcheux.'

CHAPTEE XX.

ox THE ROAD TO LA TRAPPE.

We all know now that the war of 1870 was undertaken
in opposition to the wishes of a vast majority
of the French people. That fact, whatever
it may be worth, has been conclusively established
by the reports of the different Prefects since made
public, and no one any longer dreams of disputing
it. Whether any conceivable war, just or
unjust, necessary or unnecessary, would not, in
these days, be unwelcome to the larger portion of
any civilised community, and whether, in the case
of the Franco-German war, the discontent of the
population was founded upon selfish or upon patriotic
and moral considerations, are questions
which admit of discussion ; but it may safely be
asserted that a stranger who should have happened
to find himself in France during the days immediately
preceding the outbreak of hostilities,
and who should have endeavoured to gauge the

temper of the people by the evidence of his own
senses, would have been a man of no ordinary penetration
if he had discovered that the coming
conflict was in any special sense an unpopular one.
If, here and there, a bureaucrat, like M. de
Tremonville, shook his head, or a shopkeeper or
two sighed, or a merchant looked grave, it was
not that their minds were harassed by doubts as
to whether an attack upon Prussia were justifiable
or no ; and such isolated persons were hardly distinguishable
among the crowds that thronged the
cafes, night and day, haranguing, cheering and
toasting the success of the army, or paraded
the streets in gangs, while they bawled out patriotic
songs with more of unanimity than of unison.
Indeed, what with those whose enthusiasm was
aroused by the gentle stimulus of official promptings,
what with the idlers who are ever attracted
by the sight of regiments on the march towards
the frontier, and what with a certain number of
honest folks who, to use the words of Uncle Toby,
believed that this war was ' but the getting together
of quiet and harmless people, with their swords in
their hands, to keep the ambitious and the turbulent
within bounds,' there was no lack of citizens
ready to do the requisite amount of shouting.

Even in Algiers, where republicanism was
tolerably strong, and where the plebiscite of May
had revealed the existence of a growing dislike to
the established form of government, there were
no public demonstrations save such as were of a
warlike kind.' Farewell dinners and eloquent
speeches were not wanting; the newspapers
forgot their political differences while publishing
denunciations of the infamous Bismarck, relating
starting anecdotes bearing upon his private life
and that of his royal master, and predicting the
speedy discomfiture of the barbarian host; and
every day an assemblage composed of all classes
of the inhabitants collected upon the quays to seethe
last of the homeward-bound regiments, and to
raise a parting cheer as the huge transports glided
slowly out to sea, with flags flying and bands
playing. It is true that a great many of these
worthy people afterwards averred that they had
deprecated from the outset a war dictated solely
by aims of selfish ambition ; but they disguised
their feelings very successfully at the time.

In the midst of all this bustle and excitement
the Algerian world almost forgot Mademoiselle
de Mersac's approaching marriage. Congratulatory
visits ceased ; the tongues of the gossips

busied themselves with other topics ; even in the
bride-elect's own household the coming event
was less spoken of than Marshal Leboeuf s plan
and the unexpected defection of the South-German
states. To Jeanne this was an immense relief;
and a still greater was a slackening in the attentions
of M. de Saint-Luc, who at this time was
much occupied in bidding adieu to old friends
and comrades, and in watching, a little wistfully,
their departure to take part in the great game of
which he could now only be a spectator, and who
was seldom able to leave the town before nightfall.
Even when he did come, he could talk of
nothing but the war, the prospect of a rising
among the more turbulent of the Arab tribes, and
the appearance of the troops who were being
hurried out of the colony. And so long as he
confined himself to such subjects as these, he was
as pleasant a companion as anyone else, and a
more intelligent one than the generality.

At length the last of the transports cleared
out of the harbour ; the streets were no longer
blocked by out-going regiments and long trains of
baggage-waggons ; Zouaves, Turcos, Kinsmen,
Chasseurs d'Afrique, and Spahis, all were gone ;
and the town resumed its normal aspect, and more

than its normal quiet. Then came a week of
suspense, which developed into a vague uneasiness,
as day succeeded to day, and no news arrived
from the seat of war, except some uncertain
rumours as to the disposition of the forces. M.
de Fontvieille began to grumble. ' This Emperor
inspires me with no confidence,' he said. ' Why
does he stay in Paris instead of joining his army H
His uncle would have been across the Ehine
before now.'

In due time, however, came tidings of the
affair of Saarbriick, magnified, in the course of
transmission, into a decisive victory; and then
the croakers were put to silence, and the timid
reassured.

It was Leon who, radiant with joy, brought
the newspaper containing this good news to El
Biar, and read it out in the stable-yard, while
Jeanne, who had been holding a conference with
Pierre Cauvin, peeped over his shoulder, and the
Arab grooms and helpers suspended their work to
listen. ' Louis a requ son hapteme de feu! It
was the Emperor's despatch that he read — that
despatch which has been chuckled over by every
fool in Christendom, and which has been quoted
over and over again — for no very apparent reason

VOL. ir. L

as an example of empty bombast. I don't
know that anybody thought it specially ridiculous
at the time. Certainly Leon's small audience did
not.

We begin well,' said the young man complacently,
folding up the paper and replacing it in his
pocket. ' M. de Fontvieille will believe now that
the Emperor knows what he is about.'

'A man may be a bad ruler and a good
soldier, I suppose,' remarked Jeanne. ' Let us
hope that it is so in his case, and that he may
finish this war as soon as possible. It is horrible
to think that no victory can be won without thousands
of homes being made miserable.'

Thousands of people die every day in their
beds,* said Leon. ' There will always be plenty
of misery so long as the world lasts ; and what
happier end could a man wish for than to be killed
in battle ? I am not sure that war is an unmixed
evil.'

The good God would not have permitted war
to exist if there were not some necessity for it,'
put in Pierre Cauvin, piously. ' It is sad to think
of the poor folks whose crops are destroyed by the
armies ; but if they lose, others gain — particularly
those who have horses to sell. There is no beast

in M. le Marquis' stable that I could not dispose
of for the remonte, tomorrow, at the price of 800
francs.'

Apropos,' said Leon, ' I had a letter this morning
from Mr. Barrington, to whom I had written,
forwarding him the price of the horse which he
had left here to be sold. Unfortunately I took
the first good offer I had for him. If I had only
foreseen that we should have war, I should not
have parted with him so readily. However, Mr.
Barrington seems satisfied. He writes in a very
friendly way, and sends his congratulations to you
and Saint-Luc. And now I think of it, there
was an enclosure for you, which I must have put
somewhere,' continued this exasperating young
man, searching vainly in all his pockets — ' unless
I have torn it up by mistake, or dropped it. Oh,
here it is.'

Jeanne took her letter with an unmoved countenance,
and presently carried it, still unopened,
indoors with her.

I hope nobody will think the worse of Jeanne
because it must be recorded of her that, as soon
as she had put four solid stone walls between her
and the outer world, she took Barrington's letter
out of its envelope and kissed it before reading it.

No doubt she forgot her self-respect and her duty
to her affianced husband in so doing ; but it
must be remembered that she was quite alone at
the time — which, as everyone will allow, makes
a difference. If a prying diable hoiteux could lookin
upon us, and exhibit us to our friends at such
times as we deemed ourselves most secure from
observation, should we not be fortunate indeed to
escape conviction of any worse sin than that of
raising a sheet of note-paper to our lips ? Moreover,
Jeanne did not consider her love for Barrington
a sin at all, but at the most a humiliation
a weakness to be concealed from the world at
large, not by any means to be cast out from her
heart, supposing that to be possible. How she
arranged matters with the Cure of El Biar, to
whom she confessed her peccadilloes with devout
regularity and without conscious reservation, I
don't know. Possibly she may not have thought
it incumbent upon her to inform that holy man
of matters which, to her mind, did not come
within the category of offences against God
or man.

So she kissed the unconscious sheet, and
sighed over it, and then read it.

The letter was as little worthy of so much

honour as its writer was of the heart he had
won ; but who or what gets rigid justice in this
chaotic world? Barrington wrote much as he spoke
easily, fluently, Avithout much consideration,
and thinking, all the time, rather of himself than
of the person whom he addressed. His composition
— a somewhat diffuse one — was well worded,
and not devoid of a certain sentimental grace of
diction; but it breathed of self in every line.
While penning it, he had been smarting under a
genuine and heartfelt sense of injury. In so far as
it was given to him to love anyone, he had loved,
and did love Jeanne. He had felt tolerably
certain, too, that his love was returned ; and as
soon as he had rallied from the first shock produced
upon his mind by Leon's intelligence, he
had had little difficulty in persuading himself
that he had been jilted. To a man of his temperament
such a conviction was almost more
painful than the bereavement which it implied.
'Now that I have said all that good manners
require in the way of congratulations,' he wrote,
I may perhaps be allowed to cast aside conventionality
for a few minutes, and to confess candidly
that the announcement of your engagement to
M. de Saint-Luc seems to me too terrible to

have any foundation in reality. It is so few
weeks since my own eyes and ears convinced me
of your positive dislike to this man that I can
hardly bring myself to believe in your having,
of your own free will, chosen him to be your
husband. The whole business strikes me as
so preposterous that, as I sit writing here in my
club in London, I keep asking myself whether the
gloomy stillness of this big room, the rattle of the
cabs outside, the peculiar, all-pervading London
smell of smoke and stables and the gleam of
sallow sunlight which falls upon my paper, and
upon your brother's letter lying open before me,
are not part and parcel of some horrid dream,
and whether I shall not presently awake to seethe
glorious African sun streaming through my
persiennes and hear the shrill " Ari ! — ar-r-r-i ! "
of my old, friends the donkey-drivers, and those
plaintive, drawing street-cries of the Arabs,
which used to rouse me every morning in dear
old Algiers. Or is London the reality, and
Algiers the dream ? I begin to suspect that my
life there was nothing else. Of the happy illusions,
the groundless fancies, the foolish hopes
which I built up for myself in that delicious
dreamland, I had, perhaps, better not speak.

They are all fading away fast now, dispersed by
the pitiless palpable presence of that letter, dated
Campagne de Mersac, Algiers," which stares mein
the face, and will not be ignored. I suppose
I ought not to complain. iSo man has a right
to expect more than a certain meed of happiness,
and perhaps I have had my share. And memory,
at least remains to me, and can never be taken
from me. Memory, which restores to us all that
is sweet and beautiful in the past, without its
anxieties and petty cares — the roses without the
thorns ; the sunshine without the rain. Memory,
which, in this world of constant change and decay,
is a more real and permanent friend than happiness.
Memory, which' — &c., &c. There
was a good deal more of this kind of thing. The
writer, losing himself gradually in the mists of a
complacent sentimentalism, wandered farther and
farther from his point, and entirely forgot his
original intention of piercing Jeanne's faithless
breast by thrusts of polished sarcasm. He wound
up, quite contentedly, at length with a poetical,
but rather obscure paragraph, the import of
which appeared to be that, miserable though he
was above all other men, yet his sensibility and
culture were such that he could draw from affliction's

self sources of delight undreamt of by less
refined natures.

To Jeanne, who understood but very imperfectly
the character of the man whom she loved,
all this poor stuff was the most pathetic eloquence.
Her own character was drawn in clear, firm,
decided lines, and had none of the shifting shades
and gradations which enabled Barrington to
look at a subject from fifty different points of
view, and to change his mode of action with
reference to it a dozen times in as many hours.
Black was black to her, and white, white. If
Barrington's letter did not mean that he loved
her, and that he saw she did not love Saint-Luc,
what did it mean ? At that moment it was as
clear as daylight to her that she had made a
terrible mistake ; and she could not help asking
herself whether, even now, it were an irreparable
one. Her first duty, she conceived, was to save
Leon ; but if she could accomplish this end as
well by marrying Barrington as by marrying
Saint-Luc, she would throw over the latter unhesitatingly.
The difficulty was that, Barrington
not having avowed his love in so many words, and
it being impossible for her to let him understand that
he might venture to do so, she could not free herself

from her present entanglement without list of
bringing about her brother's ruin. She sat
chafing under the weight of the chains which she
had forged for herself, and seeking vainly for some
means of breaking them, till she could bear the
confinement of the house no longer ; and putting
on her hat and gloves, went back to the stable-yard,
thinking that perchance some practical
solution might suggest itself to her in the free
open air.

The sight of her pony-chaise standing before
the boathouse put it into her head to take a
drive out into the country, and she at once summoned
a groom, and told him to put Caid and
Sheikh to. These were the same ponies which
Saint-Luc had sold to Leon, upon such favourable
terms for the purchaser, a few months before, and
which she had for a long time refused to drive.
Latterly she had taken to making use of them
pretty frequently, it being no longer a matter of
any importance whether or no they ought to be
regarded in the light of a gift from their former
owner. They were a good serviceable pair, not
very taking to the eye, but willing and enduring,
like all Arabs, and faster trotters than the generality
of their race. Jeanne had put a good half

mile of road between herself and home before she
was well settled in her seat.

Westward she drove, along the hilly road
which leads to Koleah, regardless of the sultry
heat and blinding glare, urged on by the goad of
her feverish regrets, and caring little whither she
went, so that she were able to move swiftly.
There was an oppressive hush and stillness in the
atmosphere. Over the Atlas mountains, towards
the south, brooded a sullen, coppery haze, veiling
the snow ; northward the sea heaved with a slow,
glassy swell ; the dusty olive trees that bordered
the road, the creepers that hung among the cactus
hedges — even the tough, sharp-pointed aloes
themselves — seemed to droop and sicken under
the fierce rays of the sun. Jeanne looked neither
to right nor left ; but whirled on through the
choking dust and the hot simmering air, past
parched fields and silent farmhouses, and many a
dry ravine and stony watercourse ; till, rattling
through the village of Cheragas, where the white
houses were all closely shuttered, and neither mannor
beast was stirring, she emerged, at length,
upon the upland of Staoueli, and the fertile acres
surrounding the monastery of La Trappe.

This plain, once a sterile waste, has been rendered

productive, after years of labour, by the
monks, assisted by some Government inventions
and private donations. All around their lonely
dwelling the air is heavy with the perfume of the
sweet geranium fields, which form one of their
chief sources of revenue. From the sale of a scent
distilled from these plants, from that of a liqueur
manufactured on the premises, and from the produce
of its own fields, orange groves, and orchards,
the silent brotherhood is now able to support itself
and to dispense a fairly large annual amount
in charity. It is a community highly respected in
the neighbourhood, living as hard and bitter a life
as the most determined self-tormentor could wish
for — but not a useless one.

The sight of the monastery — a long, low,
whitewashed building, standing close to the road,
and faced by a clump of stunted palms — reminded
Jeanne that she had accomplished a distance of
twelve kilometres without slackening speed — a
fact to which the heaving flanks and streaming
coats of her ponies added their mute testimony.
She drew up in the shadow of a wall, and, dropping
her reins, allowed the tired beasts to rest fora
while.

Presently a lay brother waddled out, shading

his eyes from the glare with his hand, and took a
leisurely survey of the new-comer. He recognised
Mademoiselle de Mersac, with whom he had had
dealings from time to time on behalf of his Superiors,
and welcomed her with all the warmth of a
naturally garrulous soul, whose lot had been cast
by ironical destiny among the living dead. While
the good man chattered about the crops and the
prospects of a sirocco, and the news from the seat
of war, and what not, sponging the horses* noses
as he talked, and feeding them with slices of black
bread, Jeanne let her eyes roam over the melancholy
white facade of the building, wondering
vaguely what manner of existence was led by the
ghastly, mysterious figures whom it concealed,
and almost finding it in her heart to envy them
their immunity from all earthly cares and perplexities.
In her present mood, she was inclined
to underrate physical suffering as compared with
mental. There are people out in the world who
undergo a daily penance as severe as that of La
Trappe, and get no credit for it ; a penance not
of silence but of speech — of forced smiles, of
feigned sympathies, of perpetual righteous dissimulation.
The monks at least have the consolation
of working towards a definite end, and of seeing

their reward draw nearer every day, she thought,
remembering an inscription which she had noticed
once before upon the wall of this same monastery,
S'il est triste de vivre a La Trappe, qiiil est doux
dey mourir I '

The words hung in her memory and haunted
her, long after she had bidden farewell to her
friend of the brown robe, and had set her face
homewards again. To one so bewildered and unhappy
as herself, death, indeed, appeared sweeter
than life ; and it was in all sincerity that she
sighed out, ' Oh, if I could only get a sun-stroke
or a fever, and shake off all my troubles in that
simple way, how glad and thankful I should
be!'

It may perhaps be true that,

Whatever crazy sorrow saith,

No life that breathes with human breath

Has ever truly longed for death.

But Jeanne, at all events, thought she did so ; and
that, wien you come to consider of it, is pretty
nearly the same thing.

It is, however, one thing to desire dissolution
in the abstract, and another to face the painful,
sickening wrench with which body and soul are
separated; and it so fell out that, very shortly

after breathing the aspiration recorded above, our
heroine had occasion to appreciate this distinction.
For while, lost in her own sad thoughts, she
hurried her steeds upon their homeward way,
there met her suddenly, upon the brow of a hilla
long string of laden camels, moving slowly to
the westward, their wild Arab drivers pacing beside
them, and their black, misshapen shadows
thrown far beyond the road by the sinking sun.
To the human eye nothing can be more pleasing
than the quaint, unexpected pictures of desert life
which thus start up, every now and again, in the
midst of the European civilisation of Algiers ; to
the equine, nothing is more odious. I suppose
that there are very few living horses, Arab or
other, who can look with perfect equanimity upon
a camel, which, in truth, when viewed in an impartial
light, and divested of all traditional associations,
is as hideous a brute, and as like the
creation of a nightmare, as can well be conceived.
Caid, Jeanne's near pony, was a most worthy,
well-meaning little beast free from any kind of
vice, and, albeit of a somewhat nervous temperament,
too conscious of the responsibilities which
rested upon him when in harness to indulge in
anything beyond a sober shy at the sight of

donkeys, wheelbarrows, veiled Maiiresques, and
other spectacles of an alarming nature ; but he
drew the hne at camels. In the presence of these
ungainly monsters he lost all courage and self-respect,
and became as one possessed ; and now,
perceiving the approach of his old enemies, he
gave a snort, a plunge, and a swerve, which shook
his driver roughly out of dreamland, and very
nearly out of her seat into the bargain. She, resenting
this abrupt show of insubordination, and
acting upon the impulse of the moment, foolishly
him sharply over the shoulder with her whip.
That was final. Caid flung up his heels, threw
himself into his collar, and made a clean bolt for
it. As for Sheikh, he, finding himself tearing
along the road, silly-nilly, at the rate of an express
train, naturally concluded that something
very dreadful was the matter, and became as
panic-stricken as his companion. And so, in the
course of a few seconds, Jeanne came to a clear
sense of the fact that she had lost all control over
her horses. She twisted the reins round and
round her hands, and pulled with all the force of
a tolerably strong pair of arms ; but she might as
well have tugged at a stone wall. There was
nothing for it but to sit still, and let the ponies

run until they should be exhausted, or until something
should stop them.

Jeanne did not like it. She knew that she
was in imminent danger of being dashed, head
first, against a road as hard as granite, and the
prospect had nothing inviting for her. To be
killed outright might be a blessing — though even
that did not seem quite so clear as it had done
five minutes before ; but to be mangled, stunned,
battered, to break an arm or a leg, to spend the
rest of the long, hot summer in bed, and probably
not die of it at all, these were possibilities before
which Jeanne, courageous as she was, felt her
heart fail, and a cold chill creep through her veins.
Meanwhile, her light carriage was swaying, lurching,
and bumping onwards at a pace too good to
last. Before her was a stretch of flat, straight
road ; but at the end of it was an awkward sharp
corner that she knew of, and beyond that was a
bridge with stone parapets. It was true that, if
by any miracle she should happen to pass safely
through these perils, she would shortly reach a
stiff piece of rising ground, upon which it was
likely enough that she might succeed in pulling
up the runaways ; but she plainly perceived that
her chance of ever seeing that hill was but a poor

one, and, in the meantime, she was drawing nearer
and nearer to the dreaded corner. Suddenly the
tall figure of a horseman shot up between her and
the sky, and stood motionless directly in her path.
Recognising Saint-luc and the new danger that
threatened her simultaneously, she stood up,
steadying herself by grasping the cardboard, and
shouted to him, with all her force, to get out of
the way. But it was too late. Either he did not
hear or did not understand ; for, instead of drawing
to one side, he spurred his horse towards her,
and threw up his arms.

The catastrophe was over in a moment. Caid
swerved violently, crossed his legs, and came down
with a crash like the fall of a house, dragging the
other pony after him ; and Jeanne, thrown forward
by the shock, found herself upon her hands
and knees on the wayside grass, dazed and shaken,
but not in the least hurt.

When she had in some degree recovered command
of her senses, she was standing up, mechanically
brushing the dust off the front of her
dress. Saint-Luc was bending over her [anxiously,
with a face as white as his linen jacket ; the
ponies, trembling and subdued, were upon' their
legs again, and the blood was slowly falling,

VOL. II. M

drop by drop, from an ugly scrape upon Caid's
shoulder.

How unfortunate ! ' lie ejaculated, pointing
to this wound ; ' lie is marked for life.'

'Who? That wretched little beast? As if
it signified ! ' cried Saint-Luc ; ' but you — are you
sure you are not hurt ? '

Yes, there is nothing the matter with me —
nothing at all.'

God be praised ! ' he exclaimed piously,
taking off his hat.

Jeanne looked at him with a vague surprise,
but said nothing. Her ideas were still a little
confused, and she did not yet realise that Saint-luc
had just saved her life, and might possibly
expect some words of thanks.

What a mercy it was that I chanced to meet
you just in the nick of time ! ' he went on. ' I am
sorry I had to give you such a terrible shaking ;
but it was the only thing to be done, and the
ponies will not be much the worse, I think.'

I should have stopped them when I got to
the hill,' answered Jeanne, not very graciously,
What could have made you place yourself justin
our path? I shall never be able to understand
how it was that we were not both killed.'

'Ashore will never run into another horse,
or a man, or indeed anything, unless he cannot
possibly stop himself,' said Saint-Luc, with some
modest satisfaction in the success of his rather
hazardous exploit. ' I knew that your runaways
would see me from a sufficient distance to make
an attempt at getting out of > my way, and I
thought it very likely that they would do what,
in fact, they did do — swerve, and slip up. There
was the chance of your being thrown out and
Iiurt, no doubt ; but I think you would have had
a worse accident if I had not stopped you. It
makes me shudder to think of what might have
happened if your carriage had been dashed, as it
almost certainly would have been, against the
parapet of that bridge.'

Yes, I had been dreading the bridge,' confessed
Jeanne. ' I dare say you were quite right
to do as you did. The only misfortune is that
Cai'd should be so terribly marked ; for I know
Leon will be very much annoyed when he sees-him.
However, it can't be helped. The best
thing we can do now is to get him home as
quickly as possible, poor little fellow, and have
him attended to.'

So saying, she got into the pony-carriage
M 2

again, and resumed the reins, while Saint-Luc
admiringly complimented her upon her courage.

Most ladies,' he said, ' would have insisted
upon walking home.'

Not if they were as tired as I am,' answered
Jeanne, with a faint smile, as she drew her whip
gently across Sheikh's back.

The remainder of the homeward journey — an
interminable distance, as it seemed to her — was
performed, of necessity, at a foot's pace, her lover
riding beside her with an air of watchful solicitude,
which, considering that one of her ponies
was dead lame and that both were thoroughly
exhausted and subdued, was perhaps slightly
absurd. At ordinary times, such a display of
care and implied proprietorship would have irritated
her beyond bearing, but now she was too
dispirited to mind it. In her adventure and its
commonplace ending, she fancied she could trace
an answer to those questioning hopes and fears
as to her future with which she had set out some
hours before. Apparently there were but two
alternatives before her — death, or Saint-Luc ; and
since the former destiny was evidently not to be
hers, where was the use of quarrelling with the
latter?

She bore his respectful homage and adoring
glances with a composure half forced, half apathetic
; and remembering, as lier nerves gradually
recovered themselves, what was due to her
rescuer, thanked him for risking his safety, in a
little, cold, set speech, which he jumped at as a
hungry dog snatches at a dry bone.

You have nothing to thank me for,' he cried
eagerly. ' My life is ^ yours to do what you like
with, and I am ready to lay it down for you
whenever and wherever you please.'

'You are very kind to say so,' she replied
gravely ; ' but that is not necessary, nor likely to
be. Will you not come in ? ' she added, for they
were now at the entrance of the Campagne de
Mersac.

'No, thank you,' he answered hesitatingly.
You are tired, and do not want me',

She did not contradict him. ' Till to-morrow,
then,' she said, bowing to him, as she turned in
through the gates with a look of relief upon her
face which she was as powerless to conceal as he
was 10 ignore.

And if Jeanne went to bed with a heavy heart
that night, it is probable that Saint-Luc's was not
much lighter.

CHAPTER XXL

AX UNROMANTIC PARTING.

The very first thing that Jeanne did, on waking
the next morning, was to read Barrington's letter
over ac^ain from beginnings to end ; for mere
courtesy required of her that she should return
some answer to it ; and though her half-formed
hopes of yesterday were all faded and dead now,
she had not yet quite made up her mind as to
the shape which that answer should take.

A perusal of the letter did not help her
much. Who does not know what it is to pore
and puzzle over a carelessly-written page, and
to turn the words this way and that, with an
intense longing to ore at the writer's real thought
and meaning? And who has not learnt the
futility of such efforts ? How much do those
nearest and dearest to us know of what is passing
in our minds, or we of what is passing in theirs,
even when we sit side by side ? We can but suspect

and guess, and, as often as not, guess
wrongly; and if voice, face, and gesture cannot
answer our unspoken questions, what but mere
bewilderment and vexation can be expected from
a prolonged scrutiny of paper and ink ? .Jeanne
worried herself for an hour over Barrington's
rhapsodical effusion, and was a good deal further
from understanding it at the end of that time
than she had been at the besfinnincr — though, to
be sure, its meaning would not have presented
much difficulty to a more indifferent reader. In
the end it seemed to her at once the wisest and
most dignified to leave the hints it contained
Without response, and to reply only to its congratulations.
She sat down, therefore, and penned
a short, formal note, in which she thanked Mi
Barrington for his good wishes, referred, in a few
well-chosen words, to the pleasant days she had
spent in his company during the past winter and
spring, and expressed a friendly hope that her
acquaintance with him might be renewed at some
future time. This was all very well ; and had
Jeanne's letter been suffered to end with her signature,
it would have conveyed a salutary snub
to a quarter where such gentle correctives were
much needed. But unfortunately she thought

fit to add, after a good deal of hesitation, a postscript
which spoilt all. 'I do not know why you
should say that I dislike M. de Saint Luc. He is,
and always has been, very kind to me. In France,
as you know, marriages are usually arrangements
of family convenience ; but in my case, at least,
my consent was asked, and given. I suppose that
few people, either in France or England, can
choose exactly the life they would prefer ; and
no doubt everybody has dreams and fancies,
such as you write of, which end in nothing. My
old friend, the Cure of El Biar, who likes to philosophise,
says that all earthly happiness is imaginary,
and that the more it is confined to dreams
the nearer it approaches to reality.'

Having made this unwise addition to her
letter, Jeanne folded and addressed it ; and then,
taking up Barrington's two sheets, resolutely tore
them across and across, and dropped them into
the waste-paper basket. ' I have done with the
past,' quoth she, as she descended the stairs to
face the present, which, in the person of M. de
Saint-Luc, might, as she knew, be expected ta
manifest itself at any moment.

An unexpected respite was, however, in store
for her. At that moment Saint-Luc, instead of

toiling up the hill towards El Biar, was seated ina
railway carriage, jogging westward at the deliberate
pace affected by Algerian express trains,
and bent upon the charitable errand of visiting
the sick. The early post had brought him a
piteous appeal from a young officer of his acquaintance,
one Lasalle, who, having been ordered to the
hill fortress of Milianah some months before, was
now detained there by an attack of malarious fever,
after all his comrades had left for the war. ' Come
and see me,' wrote this unlucky soldier ; ' you,
who do not know how to fill up your days. I
do not say that you will find the excursion a
pleasant one (though it is a fact that our air up
here is cooler than that of Algiers, and I believe
the scenery is considered fine by those who have
visited it from choice), but I think you would not
hesitate to come if you knew what an inestimable
blessing the sight of a civilised fellow-creature
would be to me. When I am not burning or
shivering, I lie upon my bed and do nothing at
all, except moan, and wish I were dead. The
only souls I have to exchange a word with, from
morning to night, are my servant and my doctor ;
and neither of them is very good company. Give
me but four-and-twenty hours of your society.

and, if I live, I will never forget your kindness.'


Saint-Luc, who was as kind-hearted a creature
as ever walked the earth in the disguise of a
Parisian I'oue, and who, having had Algerian
fever himself in old days, was acquainted with the
ups and downs of that wearisome and depressing
malady, began to pack up his clothes forthwith.
He would, no doubt, have responded to his
friend's call in any case ; but at that particular
time he did so with the more alacrity, by reason
of a melancholy conviction that, on private and
personal grounds, it would be well that he should
take a short leave of absence from Algiers. For
some days past it had been evident to him that
his presence was irksome to Jeanne, that he was
making no progress with her, and that there was
not the faintest chance of his gaining her affections
before marriage. It wanted now but a few weeks
to his wedding-day, and he had come, rather
sadly, to the conclusion that, during those weeks,
his best policy would be to keep himself as much
as possible out of sight.

On his way to the station he encountered Leon,
who received the news of his intended departure

with perfect equanimity, and undertook to make
the necessary explanations at home.

If I were you, I woukl make a longer trip of
it, and go on to Teniet-el-Haad and the cedar
forest,' said that unsympathetic youth. ' Algiers
is detestable in August, and you have nothing to
keep you here. I wish I could offer to accompany
you ; but I have an engagement tomorrow
at Madame de Tremonville's — in fact, for several
reasons, I cannot very well go away just now.'

I see,' answered Saint-Luc, smiling. ' You
are wanted here, and I am not. It is consolatory
to know that, if I should be detained longer than
I expect, nobody will miss me.'

Leon began to protest ; but Saint-Luc cut him
short, saying that he was late for his train, and so
hurried on his way, laughing a little under his
breath but without much genuine mirth.

A tedious, hot railway journey brought him
at length to the little tillage of Bou-Medfa, where
he hired a horse, and strapping this vase on his
saddle before him, set out, in the cool of the
evening, to mount the spiu- of the lesser Atlas,
upon which Mihanah stands.

Delicious little gusts of fresh air came swing

down the hill-side to meet him, as he rode, and
roused a soft, musical stir among the evergreen
oaks and firs, the myrtles, lentils. and brushwood
which bordered the way ; beneath him the parched
plain lay sweltering in a hazy heat ; but high
above, bare peaks and rocky spires stood out,
black and clear, against the fiery glow of the
sunset, and every now and then his ear caught the
sound of distant falling water. After a time he
came upon a small modern village of the universal
Algerian type, with detached white houses on
either side of its single broad street, a double row
of plane-trees to keep the sun from the windows,
and a fountain, round which some half-dozen
chattering women were clustered. Presently a
company of low-browed, thin-lipped Spaniards,
with laden mules, came striding down the mountain
side, singing a nasal, plaintive chorus as they
walked, and passed on, leaving a fine odour of
garlic behind them. On a wall, in the outskirts
of the village, lay a couple of lazy negroes sucking
oranges. One of them, a stalwart fellow, whose
shapely black limbs were scantily clad in white
linen, and who had stuck a scarlet pomegranate-blossom
behind his ear, turned round, with a grin,
as the horseman approached, and offered him a

branch of the golden fruit. There was an abundance
of life, strength, and colour in this high region
which could hardly fail to delight a traveller
just escaped from the listless exhaustion of the
Metidja ; and Saint-Luc, feeling the level of his
spirits rising in equal measure with that of his
body, congratulated himself upon the humane
impulse which had led him to quit Algiers for a
season.

It was fortunate that the incidents of his excursion
pleased him so well, seeing that, so far as
its chief object was concerned, he might have
saved himself the trouble of undertaking it. For
the very first person whom he met, after passing
through the gates of Milianah, was M. Lasalle
himself, who, though pale and tim, was apparently
in a condition of exuberant joy.

Is that you, Saint-Luc ? ' he cried. ' And
did you come here to see me? A thousand
thanks ! but if I had only known, I would have
telegraphed to you not to start. I have got my
orders to rejoin the regiment forthwith, and by
means of threatening the doctor's life I have
made him declare me fit for service. Never
mind ; we will go back to Algiers together tomorrow,
and you will be nc:ne the worse for

having had a little change of air. You have
heard the last news, of course ? '

There is no news,' said Saint-Luc.

You mean to say that there was none when
you left Algiers, this morning ; but a telegram
has arrived here which must have passed you on
the way, I suppose. And, ma foil' continued
M. Lasalle, with a light shrug of his shoulders,
to tell the truth, it is not precisely a telegram of
the right kind. Here it is, if you wish to see it.'

Dismounting before the door of the modest
little Hotel d'Isly, Saint-Luc read the official
despatch announcing the combat of Wissembourg.
MacMahon's left wing defeated. General Abel
Douai killed, the hues of Wissembourg stormed
by the enemy — Saint-Luc pursed up his lips, and
looked very grave over it; but his companion,
being in a humour to view all things in a rosy
aspect, made light of the affair.

Bah ! ' said he, ' there is no great harm done.
Our men fought like lions ; but they were outnumbered.
And the Marechal is no fool. Depend
upon it, he has his plan, and is only drawing
back that he may spring the more surely.'

Perhaps so,' answered Saint-Luc, folding up
the paper ; ' but I confess that, for my own part,

I do not like plans which begin by accepting a
defeat. In the meantime, I am dying of hunger.
Come in, and let us see what they can do for us
in the way of dinner.'

No, no ; you are my guest. I cannot offer
you a Maison Donee menu, but such as the food is
here, you shall have plenty of it ; and we will
finish the last bottle of champagne that I shall
drink in this accursed place.'

But neither dinner, nor champagne, nor any
contagion of high spirits, availed to dispel Saint-luc's
gloom. He left all the talking to his friend,
ate little, in spite of the hunger he had professed,
and while the other fought battles in anticipation,
routing the enemy, and triumphantly dictating
terms of peace inter the walls of Berlin, drummed
abstractedly upon the table, oppressed by a vague
dissatisfaction which he could not altogether lay
to the charge of public misfortune.

Later in the evening the two men strolled out
to the ramparts to smoke a last cigar before turning
in for the night. Beneath and around the
rocky frank of Mount Zakkar, on which Milianah
stands, a far-stretching panorama unfolded itself
the fertile valley of the Chelif, dimly seen
through the l^lue night-mists that hung over it,

shadowy hills and woods, and jutting promontories,
and outlines of rugged mountain-ranges
lying solemn and silent under the stars. M.
Salle, whose finer feelings were stirred, and
whose tongue was loosened by the effects of
champagne and excitement upon a frame weakened
by malaria, felt the influence of the scene in such
limited degree as induced speech rather than more
fitting silence.

It is beautiful — it is even sublime,' said he,
nodding at the landscape with the air of an impartial
man resolved to give the devil his due ;
but it is desperately melancholy. Yes ; rest and
peace make up a very pretty picture ; but when
one is forced to form a part of the tableau, one
begins to ask oneself whether life is worth having.
They may say what they please about the misery
of war, but there is no game like it, and no lifelike
a soldier's. It is better to risk losing a leg
or an arm at the wars than to sit in plenty and
dulness at home, and read the newspapers.'

Saint Luc grunted. This was the very thought
which had been disturbing his own mind for the
last two hours, or more ; but it vexed him to hear
it expressed in plain language, and there was a
certain tinge of exultation in his friend's tone

which, under all the circumstances, appeared to
him to show a deplorable want of good taste.

Of course, it is the nature of man to delight
in destroying his species — everybody knows that,'
he said. ' It only shows how little we are above
the beasts.'

That is no affair of mine,' answered M. Lasalle,
airily. ' I did not create the human race, and I
am not responsible for its instincts. Such as weare,
it is very evident to me that we shall not
aboKsh war during the present generation ; and I
am glad to think that, so long as France has an
army, I shall be in it.'

If you are more fortunate than others, you
need not be perpetually telling them so,' said
Saint-Luc, very snappishly.

Good-natured M. Lasalle burst into a shout of
laughter. ' I knew it ! I knew it ! ' he cried.
He is not the man to stay at home while his
comrades are fighting, this old Saint-Luc. Come
to France with me, man vieux and we will do the
campaign together. A place shall be found for
you in the regiment — never fear about that. Intime
of war one can always discover a corner for
old friends by squeezing a little ; and the Prussian
shells will soon give us elbow-room. Besides, I
VOL. n. N

have an uncle at the War Office — which is as much
as to say that you are reinstated in your old grade
as soon as you please. Let us consider it as settled.'

You forget,' answered Saint-Luc, ' that I am
to be married next month.'

Postpone it, my dear friend — postpone the
ceremony ; there is never any cause for hurry in
such matters. You can be married at the end of
the year, or next year, or the year after — — '

Whereas I may never have another chance
of dying on the field of battle. I do not deny
that, for some reasons, I should like very much to
have a look at messieurs les Prussiens ; but one
cannot arrange everything exactly as one would
wish ; and my wedding-day is fixed.'

Mademoiselle will excuse you for a fe\v'
months, if you will bring her back some laurels
to mix with her orange-flowers.'

No, she will not ; for I shall not propose anything
of the sort to her,' answered Saint-Luc,
remembering, with a secret pang, how little opposition
Jeanne would be likely to offer to his
departure. ' And I do not want to be excused.
If the wear had broken out a year ago, I should
have joined the army as a simple trooper, without
ii moment's hesitation ; as it is, the regiment will

have to do without me. Shall we go in now?
If you huger out here in the night air much
longer, you may get a return of your fever, and
never see Berlin at all.'

M. Lasalle said no more. He was a little
afraid of Saint-Luc, and remembered to have
heard that there was some romantic history connected
with his engagement which might possibly
render the subject a delicate one. Only, the
whole way back to the inn, he hummed Partant
pour la Syria, under his breath, which was neither
kind nor considerate of him.

Saint-Luc passed an uneasy night, divided
between troubled dreams and scarcely less troubled
waking thoughts. A few months earlier, to bethe
affianced husband of Jeanne de Mersac would
have seemed to him the very summit of earthly
happiness and the satisfaction of all wildest hope ;
but now that Fortune had granted him what he
had always looked upon as nearly, if not quite,
beyond his reach, he was far from being contented,
and fretted himself out of a night's rest
because he could discover no practicable way of
exchanging his imminent happiness against the
chance of wounds, privations, and death. Such
is the perversity of our mortal nature.

At the same time, it must be said for him that
his desire to proceed to the seat of war arose less
out of martial ardour (though of that he had
as large a share as might reasonably be expected
to linger in the breast of a man whose brightest
memories were connected with fighting) than from
a longing to show Jeanne that he was not quite
the contemptible fellow she took him for. He
was perfectly aware that she had a poor opinion
of him, and did not wonder at it — his own self-estimate
being so modest a one ; but he knew that,
whatever virtues he might lack, he at least possessed
that of physical courage ; and he fancied,
pardonably enough, that he might conquer her
respect, if not her love, by doughty deeds.

The thing was, however, entirely out of the
question, and there was no use in thinking about
it. Scores of times he repeated this conclusion to
himself during the night and morning, and then
proceeded to think about it more than ever. In
fact, throughout the long railway-journey back to
Algiers, his mind was occupied with no other
subject.

M. Lasalle, meanwhile, continued to behave
badly. Of nothing would he speak but of professional
matters — of the important part destined

to be played by light cavalry in all future campaigns
— of the superiority of Ai'ab over European
horses — of the glorious excitement of a charge,
the one romantic feature remaining in modern
warfare. And from time to time he would check
himself with an innocent apology for dwelling
upon such topics, ' which,' said he, ' no longer
interest you, I dare say.' Long before the sea
came in sight, Saint-Luc had lost all patience
with this eager warrior ; and, rather than face the
tete-astute dinner which he saw looming before
him, he swallowed down the reluctance he always
felt to enter the Campagne de Mersac uninvited,
and hiring a carriage on his amval at the station,
had himself driven direct thither.

It thus came to pass that the disastrous intelligence
of the battle of EeichshoflTen first reached
him from Jeanne's lips.

We have just received bad news from France,'
said she, coming forward to meet him as he
entered the drawing-room, and passing by unnoticed
his apologetic explanation of the suddenness
of his return. ' Have you heard it ? It
seems that the Marechal has been defeated.'

I arrive this moment from Milianah ; I have
heard nothing,' answered Saint-Luc, and never so

much as asked for any particulars. For the
moment, it really was not in him to feel for his
country's joys or woes, and Jeanne might have
announced the result of the battle of Armageddon
to him and left him equally unmoved ; for all his
perceptions seemed, by the exercise of some force
beyond his control, to have become concentrated
upon her, and there was no room in his mind for
any thought unconnected with her. She stood
before him in the dii light of the evening, a tall,
lithe figure, dressed all in white, Avitli shapely
head bent a little forwards, and large, melancholy
eyes that looked beyond him. Turco, stationed
at her side, wagged his tail in grave welcome.
In the shadowy background, the Duchess, M. de
Fontvieille, and Leon were grouped close together,
peering over a slip of newspaper, and talking, all
three of them at once, in their high-pitched
French voices. What was it that made Saint-Luc
see, with a sudden, vivid clearness, the impassable
gulf that lay between him and the girl whose
hand he held, and smote him with a chill certainty
that, come what might, they could never be more
than virtual strangers to each other ? It was no
sense of his own unworthiness — that had been
with him, even in an exaggerated degree, from

the outset — nor was it that lier manner evinced
the utmost difference to him ; for, that was
a point upon which he had never harboured
illusions. It was a swift, unaccountable flash of
conviction, such as everyone experiences occasionally,
and mostly at unexpected times ; and
whether it arose from some occult touch of sympathy,
or from a based effort thereat, whether it
were real or visionary, well or ill founded, it made
his heart ache with a hopeless yearning, the like
of which he had never felt before.

And all this time — that is to say, diuiug some
thirty seconds — Jeanne left her hand lying in his,
just as she might have allowed it to rest upon a
chair or a table. But now, remembering herself,
she drew back a little, and saying, ' You would
like to see the telegram, perhaps,' gently took
away the slip of newspaper from the others, who
continued their discussion without noticing her,
and handed it to him.

It was one of those hastily-printed scraps,
issued from a local newspaper office, with which
the inhabitants of the French provinces were soon
to become well acquainted. There was not much
in it beyond the admission that Mammalian's army
had received a heavy blow. Parlours of all

kinds were abroad, and were duly reported,
under all reserves.' ' But,' concluded the document,
'details are absolutely wanting.' The
Emperor's own despatch, indeed, forwarded from
Paris, showed how little was known of the affair
at head quarters. ' It was the General de I'Aigle
who announced to me that the Marechal MacMahon
had lost a battle on the Sarre — I am about to
place myself in the centre of the position — Tout
pent se r Sparer'

Saint-Luc, who had now recovered possession
of his senses, perused these confessions of impotent
ignorance with a mixture of anger and dismay.
What was there to hope for from a commander-in-chief
capable of such foolish candour ?

M. de Fontvieille, whose grief at the inauspicious
opening of the campaign was in some degree
tempered by the recollection that he had always
prophesied ill of it, uttered but one comment upon
the unlucky despatch. ' He in the centre of the
position ! what a menace ! ' he ejaculated, with
uplifted hands ; and then withdrew to a window,
and looked out at the sunset, fearing lest he might
be tempted to weaken the severity of his stricture
by further speech.

That poor Emperor ! it is all over with him,'

remarked the Duchess, with a certain contemptuous
pity. ' He may go back to Paris now, and
pack up his portmanteau ; for, unless I am very
much mistaken, we have heard the last of
Xapoleon III.'

And of Napoleon Iv,' added M. de Font
vieille, from the window.

Let us hope so. At present, it seems to me
that France is at the mercy of the first successful
general. Heaven grant that that may be
MacMahon, for he, I think, would only ascend
the steps of the throne to prepare it for the king,'

It is more likely to be Bazaine — who would
make haste to sit down upon it himself,' said
Saint-Luc.

Leon observed that they were all in a very
great hurry. Campaigns were not decided by
the first battle, nor did dynasties fall for a single
blunder. Xo doubt the Emperor had been deceived
; he had found that he must reckon with
Germany instead of with Prussia, and this might
very possibly put an end to all project of crossing
the Ehine ; but, on the other hand, the invasion
of France was a hazardous enterprise of which
the Germans would be glad to be relieved. He
(Leon) had reason to believe that diplomacy was

already at work, and that a solution would shortly
be found which would bring about an honourable
peace. Something in the shape of a victory
would certainly be necessary to satisfy the national
amour propre ; but after the first success
obtained by the French troops, negotiations might
begin. Let the one nation be permitted to consolidate
itself into a great empire, and the other
to extend its frontier a little — say in a northeasterly
direction — and all would be well. The
two armies might then shake hands, and march
off to their respective homes, singing Te Deem
a qui mieux mieux.

That is Madame de Tremonville's view, I
presume,' said Saint-Luc, divining at once the
origin of this specious plan.

And pray, who is Madame de Tremonville ? '
inquired the Duchess. 'Oh, that amusing and
impertinent little person, who wears a pince-nez.
What can she know of diplomacy ? I, who have
been a little behind the scenes in my time, can
assure you that diplomatists have some difficulty
in making their voices heard above the thunder of
the cannon. You cannot bring a victorious army
to a standstill by flourishing a protocol in its face.
I have no pretension to say how or when this war

will end, nor what we may gain or lose by it, but
I am tolerably certain that it will deprive us of
one possession which we can very well spare — the
Bonaparte family. There is consolation in that.'

'Provided we do not get the orleans in
exchange,' sighed M. de Fontvieille. ' Those
people are only awaiting their opportunity.'

'The orleans have no party,' said the
Duchess decisively. ' They represent nothing —
not even constitutional government, which has
been filched from them by the Empire. In the
coming crisis there can only be two parties —
Republicans and Legitimists — and whichever of
them can gain the army must wdn the day. We
have nearly reached the time when all loyal subjects
should declare themselves. Do you not
agree with me, M. de Saint-Luc ? '

Madame,' answered Saint-Luc, * it seems tome
that the question of dynasties can wait. I
think that all loyal Frenchmen should be content
to serve France now.'

So do I,' said Jeanne.

Saint-Luc glanced at her gratefully, not being
accustomed to hearing his sentiments so cordially
endorsed in that quarter ; and she added, ' If I
were a man I would go to the war tomorrow.'

This speech, which gave Saint-Luc matter for
reflection, excited a vigorous protest from the
Duchess, who, ever since the beginning of the
struggle, had been haunted by a terror that,
sooner or later, Leon would be drawn into it.
Such ideas, she said, were altogether childish —
not to say unpatriotic. Of those brought up to
the military profession she did not speak ; but a
civilian of talent and education could serve his
country in almost any way better than by stopping
a cannon-ball — a feat which could be accomplished
quite as effectually by any hewer of
wood or drawer of water.

In her eagerness she made the personal application
of her remarks so evident that M. de
Fontvieille, who was quite as anxious as she to
keep Leon safely at home, hastened to lead the
conversation back into the less dangerous channel
of public affairs, down which it flowed quietly
and without interruption for the next two hours.
The Duchess, M. de Fontvieille and Leon had it
all their own way ; for Jeanne was even more silent
than usual, and Saintly, whose brow was dark-with
clouds of preoccupation, scarcely opened his
lips from the announcement of dinner to the end of
that repast, and never once spoke to his Glance.

But when the whole party had adjourned to
the verandah, where cane-chairs, coffee and cigarettes
There awaiting them, he approached Jeanne
at last, and said, ' Mademoiselle ' — he had never
yet ventured to address her in any less formal
manner than this — ' will you walk to the end of
the garden with me? I have something to say
to you.'

Certainly,' she answered, with an irrepressible
intonation of reluctance which he detected but
did not choose to notice ; and so they disappeared
slowly into the darkness, side by side, to the great
delight of the Duchess, whose mind had latterly
been a good deal exercised by the unromantic
ways of this pair of presumed lovers.

If she could have overheard the' conversation,
she would have been less contented. Saint-luc
remained so long silent that Jeanne felt compelled,
at length, to take the initiative.

You had something to speak to me about,'
she began.

Yes. I have been thinking of what you said
before dinner about the war, and that, if you were
a man, you would go there. I feel convinced
that you are right, and that the army is the proper
place just now for every Frenchman who —

who has not any very binding ties to keep him at
home. And you are not the only person who
has expressed the same option to me within the
last tew days.'

She stopped short, with a quick gesture of
apprehension. ' You do not mean Leon ? ' she
exclaimed. ' Has he said anything to you upon
the subject ? Surely you would never be so
cruel as to encourage him to leave us ! Remember
what he is — the last of his name — an only
son, one might almost say ; for indeed the
Duchess is as good as his mother, and would
break her heart if anything happened to him. I
spoke hastily and foolishly, and I did not really
mean what I said '

'Do not be alarmed,' broke in Saint-Luc
gently ; ' I am sure that Leon Avill do his duty
better by remaining where he is than by fighting
the Prussians. I had a far less important person
in my mind — myself

'You!'

There was some surprise in her tone, but no
inflection of dismay ; and Saint-Luc was unreasonable
enough to feel pained by lier composure.

Yes,' he resumed, striving to assume a cheerful
and matter-of-fact air ; ' I learnt the sabre-exercise

when I was a lad, and I believe it is the only
thing in the world that I can do really well. I
can easily join my old regiment now — most likely
as an officer, though I don't hold to that — and I
know that my death would not cause so much
grief to anybody that I need hesitate on that
score ; but of course, if I went, our marriage
would have to be postponed. Would you object
to that?'

• Xo,' answered Jeanne slowly ; ' I should not
object.'

She debated within herself, for a moment,
whether she ought not to make some reference to
the payment of Leon's debt, which would thus
also require to be postponed ; but finally decided
that it was not her business to do so.

'And now, there is another thing which I
should like to ask you,' resumed Saint-Luc, after
a long pause. ' Would you not prefer that our
marriage should never take place at all ? '

Jeanne turned away, and stood still, with
clasped hands, gazing through the dark branches
of a belt of cypress-trees at the star-studded sky
and the free, Avide sea, on which a path of silver
fi'om the rising moon shimmered. How gladly —
oh, how gladly ! —-would she have answered Yes,

and regained her longed-for liberty. But it was
too late to falter now, she thought, and it would
be as cowardly in her to abandon her purpose as
in a soldier to run away under fire. She was not
in the least grateful to Saint-Luc for offering her a
means of retreat which he must know in his
heart that she could not accept with honour, and
it was in particularly icy accents that she replied
at last — ' You remember what I told you in the
beginning, M. de Saint-Luc. I have never deceived
you. I never pretended that I should
have chosen you for a husband if — ^if I had only
had myself to think of ; but I consented to marry
you for the reasons which I mentioned at the
time. What I said then I say still. Indeed I
am more bound to you than I was ; for you have
been very kind to me ; and I suppose that when
you stopped the ponies the other day, you saved
my life — which most people would reckon a kindness.
If you have changed your mind, and wish
our engagement to come to an end, I shall be
neither surprised nor offended ; but for me, I amas
content now as I was then.'

Saint-Luc sighed. Almost he felt inclined to
give up the game. He was still under the influence
of that discouraging impression of hopeless

distance from Jeanne which had fallen upon him,
in the drawing-room, before dinner, and which
her present bearing was little calculated to remove.
Yet he could not quite bring himself to
resign her. Some hungering rays of forlorn hope
even now brightened the darkness of his prospects.
Time, absence, wounds and medals — all
these might prove allies ; and moreover he still
clung to the notion that, with women, love often
follows, instead of preceding marriage — which,
after all, is a generally received theory, and may
possibly be not quite so absurd a one as it sounds.
He took time to think over all this ; for Jeanne
had paused in her walk to gather some of the
heavy-scented white bells of a datura-shrub, and
seemed in no hurry for her companion's reply.
When he did speak, it was more in answer to his
own thoughts than to her suppression.

O CO

While there is a chance for me, I will hold
to it,' he said. ' Let us remain as we are at least
imtil the end of the war. Before then much may
have happened. I may have been killed, for
instance, which would settle everything.'

Are you not afraid of death ? ' asked Jeanne,
looking at him with a shade of curiosity.

Xo. Are you ? '

VOL. II. o

I am not sure. So few people are prepared
to die.'

Do you mean that I am not ? That is true
enough, I dare say ; but I am as prepared as I
am ever likely to be. I cannot see beyond the
grave.'

Are you a sceptic then ? ' asked Jeanne, With
bated breath, as who should say, ' Are you a
murderer ? '

I have scarcely the right to call myself so.
I neither believe nor disbelieve ; I have never
thought about religion at all, one way or the
other, and seldom heard it mentioned, except asa
pretty fable or allegory, supported chiefly by
social necessities. If it be all true, I have no
doubt allowances will be made for me.'

I shall pray for you,' said Jeanne gravely.

Will you ? Will you really do that ? ' cried
Saint-Luc eagerly, attaching more importance, it
is to be feared, to the act of intercession than to
its possible results. ' Then you will think of me
sometimes when I am away ? '

I should pray for anybody who did not believe
in God,' answered Jeanne ; ' and as for
thinking of you, of course I should do that in any
case. I never forget people. When do you mean
to start ? '

To-morrow, I think.'

So soon as that ! '

Why not ? My departure will afflict nobody,
and my friend Lasalle sails at midday. Besides. I
must not lose time if I am to take part in the
battle of Chains.'

The battle of Chains ? '

It will be there, or thereabouts, I fancy.
At all events, I shall have to hurry in order to
get to the regiment in time. Even as it is, I maybe
detained by useless formalities.'

What mil the Duchess say ? I don't know
how I am to tell her,' murmured Jeanne, growing
a little alarmed as the serious nature of the situation
revealed itself to her.

I will undertake that. What does it signify
what she says ? What does anything signify ?
Let us go in at once, and get it over. And now,
as I shall not see you alone again, I will say
good-bye.'

He took her passive hand, and, for the second
time since their betrothal, pressed it to his lips ;
and she, withdrawing it presently, said, in her low,
grave voice, ' Good-bye.'

This was all their leave-taking ; and Jeanne,
thinking it over afterwards, reproached herself for

having let the poor fellow go without a single
kind word to cheer him on his way. Even at the
time her heart was a little softened towards him ;
but she would not show it, being restrained by a
foolish apprehension lest, at this supreme moment,
encouragement might lead him into some less
deferential expression of regard.

So they re-entered the house together ; and
the unsuspecting Duchess called out gaily, from
her corner, ' Well, young people, here you are at
last ! We were thinking of sending Leon outwith
a lantern to look for you.'

CHAPTEE XXn.

'THAT IMBECILE OF AX EMPEROR.'

Ox a sultry, airless evening in the beginning of
September, a small party of ladies were seated,
busily stitching bandages, arranging piles of linen,
and tearing up lint, in the salon of one of the
largest houses in Algiers. The room, which belonged
to an old Moorish palace, was lofty, thick-walled,
jealously screened by outside blinds
against any slant rays of the sun which might
penetrate into the narrow streets of the Arab
quarter, and from the courtyard below its open
windows rose the soft pattering of a fountain,
which conveyed some notion of coolness to the
ear, if to no other of the senses ; but, for all that,
the heat was well-nigh unbearable. From early
morning the fierce sun had been beating down
upon the roofs and walls and pavements of the
town, and had so scorched and baked them that
even now, when he was sinking below the horizon,

they still seemed to throb and glow as they had
done at noon. No faintest stir of breeze found
its way among those closely-packed dwellings ;
out of doors the streets were untenanted, save by
here and there an exhausted Arab, lying half-asleep
in the shade ; a universal silence and
lassitude hung over the place, and was not without
its influence on those busy French ladies,
whose occupation was not in itself of a cheering
nature, and who had all, besides, good reasons
of their own for feeling anxious and dispirited.

However, they chatted away over their Avork,
bravely making the best of bad times, as their
people always do.

Does it never rain here in September,
madame ? ' asked one of them of the mistress
of the house, a certain Madame Andre, whose
husband had held an appointment in Algiers
longer than any of those present could remember.

The old lady shook her head. ' Never,' she
answered ; ' unless, as sometimes happens, we
get a few drops from a passing storm ; and that
is not enough to cool the air. September is
our worst month ; but one lives through it, and
it only lasts thirty days, when all is said and
done.'

Live through it ? — that remains to be seen.
Steer, if I do survive this, will I murmur at the
sight of rain again ! And to think that, if all had
gone well, I was to have been at Baden now for
the races ! Alas, I fear I have seen the last of
Baden.'

Not a doubt of it,' said another. ' Germany
is closed to us for a generation at least ; and I am
sorry for it ; for what shall I do now with my
summers ? '

One must make shift with Trouville and
Vichy and such places. I do not feel as if I could
complain of any fate, so long as I am not left to
spend the hot weather in Algeria again. But
that is what it is to have a general for one's
husband.'

Mon Dieu, madame, you might be worse oA\
Generals are too valuable to be put in dangerous
places. My husband, who is but a colonel of
infantry, carries his life in his hand. I could
almost wish that he were not a field-officer, so
that he might be less conspicuous.'

'The staff suffer most of all, they say,' remarked
another lady. ' Think of those who used
to form om own little circle last winter. Poor
M. de Monceaux killed — and so many others !

Is it not astonishing how coolly we take it all ? I
think one of the saddest things about war is that
it so soon accustoms people to read quite calmly
of wounds and sufferings which would make them
shudder in time of peace. One comes to look
upon it as a sort of game, and thinks much more
of which side wins an engagement than of all the
horrors of the battle-field and the hospitals.'

It does not do to let the mind dwell upon
such subjects,' said Madame Andre. ' I have two
sons with the army, and if I were to allow myself
to brood over what may be happening to them, I
should soon be good for nothing. But I do not.
I commend them to the protection of the Blessed
Virgin three times a day, and work as hard as I
can for the wounded, and comfort myself by
thinking that every hour brings us nearer to
peace. And sometimes I get a letter from them —
not so often as I could wish ; but that one must
not grumble at. A son, you see, be he never so
good a one, is not the same thing as a husband ora
lover. Now Mademoiselle de Mersac, I daresay,
gets a letter by every mail. Do you continue
to have good news of M. de Saint-Luc, mademoiselle
? '

Madame Andre was one of those amiable,

thick-skinned persons whose privilege it is to
acquaint the hearts of the most forbearing with
occasional thrills of the homicidal passion.

I do not correspond with M. de Saint-Luc,'
replied Jeanne coldly, without looking up from
the heap of charpie before her. ' My brother
hears from him sometimes. He has got his commission
as captain, and is quite well, I believe, and
in good spirits.'

This speech occasioned a swift interchange of
significant glances, raising of eyebrows and noiseless
ejaculations ; for these ladies were not so
wholly absorbed by domestic anxiety but that they
had found time to discuss in all its bearings Samt-
Luc's sudden and unexplained disappearance within
a few weeks of his intended marriage ; and the
unanimous conclusion at which they had arrived
was that he had been very badly treated. What
bridegroom, they reasonably urged, vrould rush
ois to the wars from the very church-door, so to
speak, unless his bride had either dismissed him
or tried his patience beyond endurance They
where the more ready to blame Jeanne in this
matter because she had not been so fortunate as
to have earned their affection. They did not like
her, and sometimes showed her their dislike — and

she did not in the least care. M. de Fontvieille,
to whom this unpopularity of his protegee caused
a great deal of secret vexation, used to say that
Jeanne would never have many friends among the
Algerian ladies, for three sufficient reasons: —
Firstly, because she was far handsomer than any
of them ; secondly, because she was better educated
than all of them put together ; and thirdly,
because she despised gossip. The first of the
causes assigned was, of course, ridiculous, since
everybody knows that the notion of feminine
jealousy on the score of personal beauty is a mere
vulgar calumny, only believed in by silly and
ignorant people ; but it is possible that the other
two may have been less imaginary ; for there is
unquestionably something a little galling in intercourse
with a person who is not only infinitely
your superior, but is also, in a placid, polite way,
perfectly aware of the fact.

Be this as it may, these excellent ladies had
no love for our poor heroine ; and when she presently
rose, and bade them all a very good-evening,
they began to breathe more freely. .

I am never comfortable when that girl is in
the room,' said one of them, as soon as the door
had closed behind her. ' She will not speak, and

scarcely listens when she is spoken to, and I defy
anybody to know what is passing in her mind. I
am not aware that there is anything particularly
contemptible or laughable about me, and yet she
always gives me the impression that she thinks
so.'

'She is a good girl said kindly Madame
Andre ; ' she does a great deal for the poor. But
she IS eccentric, which is a terrible defect in a
woman. One must remember, however, that her
mother was an Englishwoman. That explains
much.'

Jeanne, meanwhile, as she toiled up the 
streets of the Arab quarter, felt her
conscience stirred by that chance question of
Madame Andre's and the surprised silence which
had followed her answer to it. Upon reflection,
it certainly did sound odd that she should not be
in direct communication with her future husband ;
and the annoying part of it was that she need not
have made the fact public, and indeed would not
have done so, if heat and weariness and the exasperating
arch smile of good Madame Andre had
not combined to overpower all prudence. Perhaps,
too, it would have been more wise, as it
certainly woidd have been kinder, if she had let

Saint-Luc hear from her every now and then.
Almost his last words had been a timid suggestion
with reference to this subject, but she had not
responded favourably to the hint, having, in truth,
no desire to be reminded of his existence, and not
seeing that she was in any way bound to burden
herself with an irksome task. At the time, her
one wish had been that he would go away as
quickly as possible, and let her neither see nor
hear more of him until the day should come for
the completion of her sacrifice ; for it will easily
be believed that, what with M. de Fontvieille's
expostulations, and the Duchess's scolding, entreaties
and tears, the evening of separation had
not been an altogether agreeable one for either
member of the betrothed couple.

But now all these preliminary troubles were
over, and well-nigh forgotten. Jeanne's home
circle had gradually accepted the inevitable with
more or less of philosophy, and four weeks had
elapsed since Saint-Luc had bidden a long farewell
to Algiers. Four weeks, stormy and eventful on
the other side of the Mediterranean, and big with
the fate of empires and of generations yet unborn,
but quiet and peaceful enough here in remote
Africa. Four weeks which had seen the fertile

uplands of Mars-latour and Gravelotte deluged
with blood, which had witnessed an unbroken
series of defeats for the French arms, and had
taxed to the utmost the mendacious ingenuity of
M. de Palikao and his colleagues. Four weeks
which, in spite of the great heat, in spite of the
garrulous irritability of the Duchess — who was
ill, poor old soul, and naturally worried by the
unexpected disturbance of her plans — in spite of
the lamentable decease of the jackal Jeremie,
who, having broken loose and eaten half-a-dozen
chickens, had been incontinently slain by an irate
farmer ; in spite, too, of many a sad hour and vain
regret, had brought more of contentment to Jeanne
than she had ever expected to find again. For 'M.
de Saint-Luc was gone ; and in that one thought
lay measureless relief.

She had kept her promise of praying for bim,
being in all things a person of her word, and duly
offered up supplications for both his temporal and
spiritual welfare at the hour of the Ave Maria,
when it was her habit to kneel in the little village
church. And this she did without mental reservation
; for it never occurred to her to think that
a German bullet might set many crooked things
straight, or to doubt of the wanderer's eventual

return. But she dismissed him from lier mind,
together with the remembrance of her sins and
other unpleasant subjects, at the church-door,
deeming, with King Solomon, that there is a time
for every purpose under the heaven.

When, as would sometimes happen, some trifling
incident like Madame Andre's unlucky
speech cropped up to remind her of her chains, she
made haste to escape from the odious remembrance
with such despatch as she could command ; and
now, acting upon this rule, she soon persuaded
herself that the epistolary question was one which
it was altogether unnecessary to consider, after so
long a period of silence, and had recovered her
ordinary equanimity by the time that she had
passed through the gates of the town, and was
out in the open country.

A cool breath of evening air met her as she
emerged upon this higher ground, where nature
was beginning to show signs of returning animation,
where the grasshoppers were in full chorus,
and where bright-eyed lizards were darting swiftly
from every chink and crevice of the rocks. Jeanne
drew a long breath, and paused, upon the brink
of the cliff, to cast a glance of pity upon the poor,
stifled town at her feet. White, glaring, and

silent, it sloped from brown hill-top to burning
sapphire sea, all its touches of inter greenery
vanished — a different Algiers indeed from that
which had gratified Mr. Barrington's artistic eye,
when he had stood upon this same spot some six
months before. While Jeanne looked, a little
cloud of dust rose from the lower gates of the
town, and out of it appeared a cavalry officer,
whose steel scabbard flashed in the sun, as he
galloped helter-skelter up the zig-zag road at a
pace worthy of John Gilpin. Jeanne recognised
the seat of this impetuous horseman, and smiled.

Leon will never learn that a horse's legs are
not made of cast iron,' she sighed.

Leon indeed it was, in the uniform of the
Francs-Cavaliers de I'Algerie, a patriotic corps
organised for purposes of local defence during the
absence of the regular army, and which no doubt
made up in valour what it lacked in numerical
strength. Leon had been urged to enrol himself
in it by M. de Fontvieille, who saw there a
safety-valve for the letting off of warlike hankering
; and so far it had answered its purpose very
well, and had kept the yoimg man in tolerable
good humour with himself and his lot.

But now news had come from France of such

a nature as to effectually rob mock soldiering of
its solace, and to render inaction more than ever
grievous to all true lovers of their country. Leon,
as he stormed up the hill, regardless of the wind
of his charger, was so wrapped in his own disturbed
thoughts that he would have passed his
sister without noticing her, if she had not called
to him. At the sound of her voice he pulled up,
with a clatter and a jingle, and breathlessly
shouted out his evil tidings. ' All is lost ! The
whole of MacMahon's forces have capitulated to
the enemy, the Emperor is taken prisoner, Bazaine
is shut up in Metz, and France has not a regular
army left in the field.'

It is impossible ! '

It is true. I had it from the Sub-Governor's
own lips. And to crown all, they say Paris is in
the hands of the mob.'

'What will happen now, then? Shall we
have peace ? '

Who knows ? It will depend upon what the
Prussians may ask of us, I suppose. But I can't stop.'

Where are you going in such a hurry ? '

To Mustapha. I promised to let Madame
de Tremonville know as soon as there was any
news. A benton ! '

And, with a wave of his hand, Leon spurred
his horse, and was soon out of sight.

'Always Madame de Tremonville ! ' murmured
Jeanne, with a short shrucr of her shoulders.
Poor boy ! he little knows how ridiculous he is
making himself.'

I suppose that when a man is being made a
fool of by a woman, no one is more quick to discover
the fact, and less ready to sympathise with
the victim, than the ladies of his own family.
Leon knew that Jeanne disapproved of Madame
de Tremonville, and of his visits to her house ;
but, as she had truly said, he had no suspicion
that he was making himself ridiculous. On the
contrary, his estimation of himself had risen by
several degrees since he had been given to understand
by the most charming and most cruelly misjudged
of her sex that she regarded him as the
only real friend she had in the world.

The fact was that Madame de Tremonville had
found herself rather short of admirers after the
departure of the army, to which branch of the
public service she was accustomed to look chiefly
for recruits, and a flirtation of some kind being
meat, drink, and raiment to her, had fixed upon
the young Marquis to practise her arts u^on.faute
VOL. n. p

de mieux. He had been deeply smitten, as we
have seen, months before ; but now his subjugation
was complete ; and perhaps no more convincing
proof of his devotion could have been
found than in the fact that, even when he had
such news as the wreck of the Empire to announce,
he should have dismounted at the fair
lady's gates, and led his horse gingerly up the
short avenue, fearing to disturb the siesta which
ordinarily occupied the best part of her afternoon.


On the present occasion, however, he might
have dispensed with this precaution ; for Madame
de Tremonville, arrayed in diaphanous white
muslin, and holding a rose-lined parasol over her
golden locks, met him on the threshold.

You are come to tell me of the battle of
Sedan,' she said. ' How kind of you to hurry up
in the heat, and to tire your poor, pretty horse
so ! But I have heard all about it from my husband,
who returned from his office half an hour
ago in a pitiable state of agitation. He has weak
nerves, this poor M. de Tremonville. What a
lamentable spectacle is a man with weak nerves ! '

You, at least, do not suffer in that way,' remarked
Leon admiringly. ' All the way from the

town I was thinking how I should prepare you
for this terrible catastrophe, and now I find that
you take it far more calmly than I can profess todo.'


My dear friend, I have foreseen it for so long.
What else coidd be expected from an army rotten
to the very core — demoralised by loose discipline,
commanded by generals whose merit consisted in
their servility and venality, and headed by that
grotesque imbecile of an Emperor ? '

Imbecile of an Emperor I ' echoed Leon,
aghast at this diatribe from one of the staunchest
adherents of the late regime.

Certainly. Have you not heard me call him
so scores of times ? No ? Ah, well, one has to
be careful in speaking of constituted authorities,
but I have always thought that the Emperor was
half-witted, and the event proves that I was right.
If a man who declares war without knowing whether
he is prepared or not, who gets himself beaten
in every engagement, and finally hurries his last
army into a mouse-trap, be not an imbecile, I do
not know the meaning of the word.'

You do not think, then, that he will ever
return to power ? ' asked Leon with innocent
irony.

p 2

Never ! — never in the v^orld ! The Empire
is as dead as Henri IV. The only thing to be
done with it is to bury it out of sight, and to
forget, if possible, all its blunders and infamies.'

This was really a little too bad. Mindful of
the evening when he had been forced to humiliate
himself publicly by shouting ' Vive lEinjoereur! '
Leon could not suffer such sentiments as these to
pass without a gentle protest.

Surely you did not think so badly of the
Empire six weeks ago, madame ? ' said he.

Six weeks ago ! ' returned Madame de Grenville
impatiently. ' Six weeks ago everything
was different. The wife of an official cannot
always say exactly what she thinks ; I should
have thought anybody would have understood
that. And besides, if the war had ended successfully,
that would have atoned for many sins. It
would not have been generous to condemn a
government which was upon its trial. But are
you not coming in ? It would be very amiable
of you if you would stay and dine, and amuse me
for part of the evening.'

I will come in for a few minutes, if you will
permit me, madame,' answered Leon ; ' but I am
afraid they will expect me to dine at home tonight

; and even if I were to consult my own
wishes, and remain with you, I should not be
likely to amuse you. One can hardly be expected
to feel cheerful with France at the mercy of an
invader.'

Infatuated as Leon was, the cool cynicism of
Madame de Tremonville shocked him a little, and
made him doubt, for the first time since he had
known her, whether he would altogether enjoy an
evening spent in hearing her talk.

I am not cheerful,' she answered, turning
away ; ' but I would rather be sad in yom company
than alone. Of course, though, if your
sister has ordered you to be home to dinner, you
must go.'

This was a cut at Leon's most sensitive point ;
but he did not choose to notice it, and entered
the house in silence.

M. de Tremonville, who was sitting in the
drawing-room with his head resting despondently
upon his hands, started up at the sound of
approaching footsteps.

Ah, Monsieur le Marquis,' he exclaimed, in
heart-broken accents, ' what deplorable news ! '

Leon said it was very bad.

And we do not yet know the worst of it. If

it was only the defeat of the army, the loss of
prestige, or even the conclusion of a humiliating
peace, one would not need to despair of the future ;
but, alas ! we are only at the beginning of our
misfortunes. I greatly fear that we are about to
enter upon a period of anarchy, and it may be of
civil war. A Republican government, monsieur
for it is with that that we are menaced — is
capable of any enormity. It will revolutionise
everything ; it will throw the whole machinery of
the State out of gear ; it will dismiss old and tried
public functionaries '

Bah ! ' interrupted Madame de Tremonville ;
you always look upon the black side of things.
It is only the timid who will retire. A brave
civilian, like a brave soldier, remains at his
post.'

How is a man to remain at his post when he
is turned out from it ? '

He must not let himself be turned out.
Those who, like you, have always held Liberal
opinions, should have nothing to fear.'

I have always supported the Government,*
said M. de Tremonville, looking a little bewildered.


But when I tell you that you have always
held Liberal opinions ! '

M. de Tremonville sighed deeply, but said
nothing, and his wife continued :

If you had a grain of spirit in you, you
would know how to keep what you have got ;
but as it is, you had better leave everything tome,
as usual.'

Leave everything to you ! ' groaned M. de
Tremonville, rubbing his bald head despairingly.
Yes, that is what I have done — and see the consequences
! Look, I beg of you, at the consequences.
You have nearly ruined me by your
extravagance ; you have compromised my future
by your ostentatious Imperialism ; you have made
me a laughing-stock by your coquetry, to use no
harsher word '

Allow, allons, mon ami I '

I insist upon being heard. M. le Marquis
may take note of what I say if he pleases. For
once I will speak. It is to you that I owe aU my
misfortunes. But for you, shoidd I ever have
left Bourbeville-sur-Creuse, where I enjoyed a
higher salary and more consideration than I do
here ? Were we not compelled to solicit a change

of appointment owing to the constant visits of M.
le Prefet, and to Madame la Prefet's declaration
that she would tolerate such conduct no longer ? '

'Continue — pray continue. You humiliate
yourself in insulting me.'

No, it is you who have humiliated me. I
have always loved respectability myself,' added
poor M. de Tremonville, with a touch of pathos
' respectability and a quiet life — and I abhor
scandals. If I had had a wife who had shared my
ideas, I should perhaps have been a better man
to-day — certainly T should have been a richer one.
But you, madame, you have blighted for ever a
career which might have ended in honourable
distinction, and — and a comfortable competence.'

And with that he trotted out of the room,
head first, feeling probably that his courage would
not hold out much longer.

What coarseness ! what ingratitude ! ' sighed
Madame de Tremonville, as soon as he was gone.
You perceive, my friend, what I have to submit
to. Shall we have some music now, and try to
forget this unpleasant scene ? '

But Leon said he must go ; and took his leave
rather stiffly. The little conjugal discussion to
which he had just listened had in some degree

served to open bis eyes ; and moreover, that
allusion to the behaviour of the Prefet at Bourg
struck him as eminently unsatisfactory'.
So he mounted his horse, and rode slowly
home, musing sadly, as he went, upon the frailty
of all human ideals.

CHAPTEE XXIII.

IN WHICH Lion ASSERTS HIS Independence.

Eh bien, mademoiselle, vela que nous sommes une
Publique ! '

Jeanne, waking in the morning with these
words in her ears, sat up in bed, and became
aware of Fanchette, who had brought in her bath
a full half-hour earlier than usual, fearing to be
anticipated in the announcement of this startling
piece of news, and who stood at the foot of the
bed, grinning from ear to ear, as if the whole thing
was the best joke in the world.

How terrible ! ' exclaimed Jeanne ; for she
had been brought up to regard republicans with
as holy a horror as did M. de Tremonville himself.
Are you sure there is no mistake, Fanchette ? '

Mademoiselle, it is positive. Pierre Cauvin
heard all about it down at the market, and says
the whole town is en fete. It seems that a telegram
came, about midnight, to say that the

Emperor was deposed, and that there was to be a
new Government, composed of a number of individuals
whose names I cannot recollect, only I
know that Jules Favre is one of them. Mademoiselle
remembers Jules Favre, who was here
last year — an avocat, ^vith a tangled head of hair
to think of his being in the Government ! is
it not amusing ? Well, when the people in the
town heard of this, the first thing they did
was to have a salute fired ; and then they went
up to the Palace, where M. le Sous-Gouverneur
was in bed and asleep, and they marched him
down to the Place du Government, where he had
to plant a tree of liberty, and ciy, " Vive' la Publique
! " Poor gentleman ! they say he pulled a
long face over it ; but what could he do ? If he
had refused, they would have been capable of
throwing him into the harbour. And now, Pierre
Cauvin says, they are pulling down all the eagles
from above the shop-windows, and they have
scratched out the names of the Boulevard de
Imperative and the Eue Napoleon, and everybody
declares that we are to have no more
military Governors, and that very likely M. le
Sous-Gouverneur will be sent away to France at
once.'

Fanchette's political opinions were those of her
master and mistress. She was a staunch royalist,
and would have been very much offended at
being taken for anything else. In principle,
therefore, she considered a republic as a far
worse form of government than an empire. But,
notwithstanding this, she had all a Frenchwoman's
mischievous glee at the overthrow of her rulers,
and could not refrain from exclaiming a second
time, at the conclusion of her narrative, ' Is it
not amusing ? '

To a large proportion of the French people,
indeed, all revolutions are much what a successful
barring-out of the masters used to be to English
schoolboys; and it was with a strong admixture
of this feeling that the Algerian republicans rejoiced
over the events of September 4. They
were good-humoured enough, upon the whole ;
and though, in the first flush of unfettered speech,
some truculent menaces were hurled at the heads
of Bonapartists and dictionnaire, nobody was
injured.

This forbearance was probably owing in part
to the fact that for several months after Sedan no
such thing as a Bonaparte was discoverable, and
partly also to the silent arguments of a couple of

ironclads which lay in the port, and to the use of
which the Port Admiral was said to have pointedly
referred when ' invited ' by a few leading
citizens to send in his resignation. Leading
citizens, being above all things anxious to avert
bloodshed, were fain, therefore, to let off surplus
energy by revelling in the full freedom of the
press, by filling the windows of the print-shops
with caricatures of the Imperial family, and by
planting sickly trees of liberty in every open space
forgetting a little, in the enjoyment of these
happy privileges, the calamities which Jiad rendered
them possible.

Even in the most strongly anti-republican
circles, indignation with the fallen Empire overpowered,
for a long time, all jealousy of its
successors, and was a more frequent topic of conversation
than the immediate prospects of the
country. M. de Fontvieille, especially, could not
contain himself when the name of Xapoleon III.
was mentioned, and would start to his feet, erect
and rigid as a Jack-in-the-box, clenching his Httle
fists, and shrieking ' Ah hr-brigand! ' What annoyed
him more than anything else was the statement
made in the newspapers, that the Emperor
had driven over into the Prussian lines smoking

a cigarette. That the man should have been
capable of enjoying tobacco at that supreme
moment seemed to him almost more infamous
than his failure to ' find death at the head of his
army ; ' and when later intelligence announced
that the royal residence of Wilhelmshohe had
been assigned to the captive, and that Queen
Augusta had sent him her own cook., what further
proof could anyone want that France had been
deliberately sold to the enemy ?

The crop of queerly-named, and still more
queerly written journals which, in Algeria as in
all other parts of French territory, sprang up after
the declaration of the Eepublic, as thickly as mushrooms
after a thunderstorm, unanimously adopted
this view. The Cri du Peuple, the Solidarity Algerine,
and the Colon en Cohere, were all able to tell
their readers, down to the last centime, the sum
received by ' the man of Sedan ' and his accomplices
for their treachery, and were, in fact, so
full of information upon this and other subjects
of a like interesting nature, that they had but
little space left for recording the movements of
the German armies, which all this time were
plodding steadily on towards Paris. And so, indue
course, came the complete investment of the

capital, and M. Jules Havre's proclamation, describing
his futile interview with Prince Bismarck
at Ferries, which, as it was a leigh-sounding composition,
the Algerian papers published in extenso.
This artless effusion of the unlucky Minister
for Foreign Affairs has been sufficiently laughed
over in its time, and, by reason of a striking
phrase or two, has little chance ot obtaining a
kindly oblivion. A statesman, who, not content
with displaying his hopeless ineptitude in the
Cabinet, must needs blazon it forth to the world ;
who, by way of reply to suggested conditions for
an armistice, ' turns aside to devour the tears that
choke him ; ' who imagines that glowing language
is likely to have the smallest effect upon a successful,
hard-headed Prussian, and whose notions
of propitiatory sacrifice do not include ' an inch of
our territory, nor a stone of our fortresses,' is
perhaps a legitimate subject for the mirth of
practical people ; but, for all that, there was a
simple eloquence about the composition which
found its way to the hearts of the French people.
Jules Favre's words were caught up and echoed
throughout the length and breadth of the land ;
and in truth the humour of tli^m (if humour
there be) consists less in the despairing defiance

they breathed than in the fact that those stones
and inches had to be ceded, in the sequel, by
the very man who had so ardently vowed to
retain them ; while as for tears, they are but an
expression of emotion held to be unseemly by
northern nations, but not so considered by the
Latin races of our own day, nor by the Greeks of
old time.

Leon, when he read M. Favre's circular, was
very nearly crying over it himself, out of sheer
mortification. Ever since September 4 he had
been keenly alive to the shame of his present life
of inglorious security ; and if anything had been
wanting to complete his discontent, it would have
been supplied by the hastily written lines in
which 'saint-Luc recounted his escape from the
captured army at Sedan, and his safe reception,
after many perils and adventures, into the corps
of General Yinoy. Thus far Leon had been prevailed
upon to remain where he was, less by the
Duchess's piteous pleadings than by the assurance
of all his friends that peace was imminent and
inevitable ; but now he was determined that he
would be cajoled in this way no longer. That
the struggle would be prolonged to the uttermost
was beyond a doubt. People were already

beginning to talk of a levee en masse ; and a time
might come when he would be forced to take his
share of it, with or without his consent. Should
it be said of him that he had declined to fight for
his country till his country had had to drag him
into the ranks?

Primed with the unanswerable arguments which
such thoughts suggested, he sought out his sister,
to whom he still instinctively turned in moments
of emergency, and, without waste of words, declared
his purpose.

Jeanne,' said he, ' I am going to join the
army immediately.'

Jeanne was sitting in a cool corner of the
garden, upon a marble bench, shielded from the
sun by a tall cypress hedge and some overspreading
umbrella pines. She neither turned her head
nor answered, but gazed absently at the glittering
sea beneath her and the clearly marked hne of
the horizon, as if she had heard nothing. Leon,
who was familiar with all her moods, knew that
with her silence by no means implied consent,
and, to save time ,replied to her objections before
they were uttered.

What is the use of making the worst of
things?' he asked. 'The chances are greatly

VOL. II. Q

against my being killed ; anybody will tell you
that ; and, in point of fact, all that can be urged
against my going simply amounts to this — that
you and the Duchess will be uneasy and anxious
about me while I am away. You know quite
well that I do not think that a matter of no importance
; but surely you will allow that it is
more important still that I should not be disgraced
in the eyes of every man of my acquaintance,
and '

No one would dare to insinuate that you had
disgraced yourself,' interposed Jeanne, quickly.
You have your regiment here ; and you might
be called upon to serve, any day, if the Arabs
should rise, as I am told they are very likely
to do.'

They are not in the least likely to do any
such thing,' returned Leon, slapping his leg impatiently
with his cane ; ' and even if they did, I
believe the Duchess would at once find some
excellent reason for my staying at home.'

The Duchess is ill, and is growing very old.
She is convinced that, if you left us now, she
would never see you again. It is only natural
that she should feel so ; and I think you ought to
take that into consideration.'

So I do ; but I have myself to consider as
well. One or other of us must give way; and,
admitting that she has every ground for her fears,
which of us would sacrifice most — she, by bidding
me good-bye now instead of a few months hence,
or I, by giving every shopboy in France, who
had carried a chasse pot during the war, the right
to sneer at me for the rest of my days ? The
Duchess means to be kind, but she is a little
selfish, as all old people are, and it is useless forme
to try and make her understand that I do not
choose to undergo all the hardships of a private
soldier's life for my own amusement. With you
it is different. You have good sense enough to
see that it is simply my duty — and a rather unpleasant
duty too — to go and fight ; and I think
you ought to help instead of opposing me. Why,
you let Saint-Luc go without a word ! '

This was an argument to which Jeanne found
it rather difficult to reply ; and indeed, though
sorely against her will, she could not but inwardly
acknowledge that the young man's instincts were
right. She was weak enough, however, to put in
the old plea of the probability of peace.

'That chance is finally disposed of, as the
papers will convince you,' answered Leon, pulling

Q 2

the Cri du Peuple out of his pocket, and dropping
it on to her lap. ' Head that, and you will see
that we do not mean to give in until we are exterminated.
Now I must go, for 1 have a great
many instructions to give to Pierre Cauvin ; but
remember, Jeanne, when I broach the subject of
my joining the army, at dinner this evening, I
shall expect you to support me ; and if you really
love me, you will do so.'

And with that he marched off. A year ago,
he would hardly have ventured to speak so peremptorily
; but he was out of leading-strings now,
and had begun to feel all the conscious superiority
of a very young man over the womankind of his
household.

Jeanne made no effort to retain him. She
saw that he would go to France — perhaps even
that he ought to go — and that combating his resolution
would but serve to strengthen it. But
that did not prevent lier heart from sinking with
apprehension, nor her imagination from conjuring
up a host of dire possibilities : for though in most
matters she had courage enough for any two, she
was a veritable coward where Leon's safety was
concerned. If the destinies of France had been
entrusted to her hands at that moment, it is to be

feared that peace would have been purchased at
the price of as large a cession of inches and stones
as the invader night have thought fit to demand.
Mechanically she unfolded the newspaper which
Leon had thrown to her, to see how far popular
opinion might seem disposed towards a pacific
policy.

Upon this point the Cri du Peuple Alas perfectly
explicit. There was to be no pelting, no
hesitation, and neither peace nor truce till the
enemy should be driven back across the frontier ;
the resources of the country, both in lives and
money, were to be taxed, if need should be, to
the utmost ; and all able-bodied men (except, of
course, such as were required for civil employment
and the cultured few whose duty compelled
them to stay at home, and write leading
articles) were to be called under firms forthwith.
The Cri du Peuple considered that the hour had
now struck for the converting of every citizen
(always with the above-named exceptions) into a
soldier, and was further of opinion that the Bona-artists
should be placed in the front rank.
These editorial utterances filled the first page of
the sheet ; the second was taken up by Jules
Favre's circular, and by appropriate comments

thereon ; and the third contained an article
written by a gentleman of most uncompromising
views, who, to use his own forcible words, ' was
convinced that the peace of the world could only
be secured by the final extinction of the traitors,
cowards, and bandits who have too long usurped
the proud position of rulers of mankind.'

In the sad circumstances in which Europe
now finds itself,' continued this moderate reformer,
we believe that we are fulfilling a high duty of
morality and humanity in suggesting to our Government
that the following prices be placed upon
the heads of the monsters whose names we append
: —

FR.

25,000
25,000
25,000
15,000
15,000
10,000

Charles-louis Napoleon Bonaparte .

Bismarck (the enemy o£ the human race)

William, King of Prussia

Moltke

Warder {le hourreau de Strasbourg')

Emile Olivier (of the light heart) .

Clement Duvernois (more than he is worth, but
no honest citizen would soil his hands by
touching the wretch for less) . . . 5,000 '

From the above excerpt (which, by the way,
is no caricature) it will be seen that the tigerish
element which, according to Voltaire, enters so
largely into the disposition of his countrymen.

was not wanting among the contributors to the
Cri dii Peuple. The last page of that spirited
print offered a very fair example of the sinuous
side of the national character, consisting, as it did,
of a series of mischievous and gleeful attacks upon
the reputation of local dignitaries. Under the
title of ' Les Functionaries de V Empire : leurs
hauls faits et gestes,' Jeanne came upon a paragraph
headed ' Bonjean, soi-disant de Tremonville,
in which our old friend was somewhat roughly
handled. ' The son of a simple peasant, who
earned his living in the hamlet of Tremonville in
Dauphine, some fifty years ago, partly by the sale
of his own pigs and fowls, and partly by stealing
those of his neighbours, the young Baptiste Boh-jean
early displayed an aptitude for thieving,
lying, and fawning upon his superiors. Under
the regime from which we have just escaped he
could have possessed no better credentials for advancement
in life.'

Such were the opening sentences of a concise
biography, which, after following the juvenile delinquent
through the various phases of his successful
career, imputing to him enough crimes to
have merited a sentence of penal servitude for
life, and incidentally disposing of his wife's character

in terms whose plainness left nothing to be
desired, wound up with a significant warning that
the rule of adventurers of this stamp would be
tolerated no longer. ' We are the more desirous
concluded the writer, ' that the citizen Bonjean
should at once learn the necessity for withdrawing
his dishonoured person from our town, inasmuch
as we have been given to understand that he now
professes republican principles, and has been sedulously
exerting the occult influences which such
reptiles know how to use to get himself confirmed
in the appointment which he at present disgraces.
Should he succeed in his design, the people of
Algiers will, without any doubt, find a summary
means of getting rid of him.'

With a smile that ended in a sigh, Jeanne let
the paper slide to the ground.

The truculent absurdities of a half-educated
scribbler were of no great importance in themselves,
but they served to show which way the
wind blew, and that republican was as little disposed
as imperial France to look truth in the face.
There could be no question but that the war
would be prosecuted indefinitely, nor any doubt
but that Leon would have to take his part in it.

Oddly enough, it was not death nor wounds

that Jeanne dreaded for her brother — these were
contingencies which she could not brinfr herself
to contemplate — but the hardships and privations
which he must needs undergo, and for which she
imagined him to be in no way fitted. As a
matter of fact, the young man was as strong as a
horse, and as well able to make his dinner off the
heterogeneous contents of a camp-kettle, and to
sleep on the bare ground afterwards, as any soldier
in the French service ; but this Jeanne could
not see. Her love for her brother had always
been of a more or less maternal nature ; and now,
calling to mind all the minor maladies — colds in
the head, toothaches, and what not — which had
afflicted him from time to time, she fell to drawing
harrowing mental pictures of his sufferings
from one or other of these terrible ailments in a
wintry, inhospitable land, with no one to pet and
comfort him under them, till her heart overflowed
with pity and her eyes with tears.

And so she sat idly on her shady bench, while
the heavy-footed hours crept by, and the sun
struck downwards in his might, shrivelling the
brown herbage, and making the air quiver, and
the voices of Nature were dumb, and all things
were pervaded by a brooding sense of depression

which northern people can hardly understand as
associated with fair weather.

After a time, there came an audible stir from
the direction of the house ; a sound of hurrying
footsteps, of eager, subdued voices ; and then a
horse was led out from the stable, and somebody
mounted him and galloped away, along the highroad,
towards the town. Jeanne started to her
feet at once, feeling instinctively that something
had gone wrong. There was nothing unusual in
what she had heard ; in fact, hardly a day passed
without a groom being despatched to Algiers upon
some commission or other ; but when misfortune
is in the air, it has a way of making itself felt
through the most ordinary channels, and Jeanne
was scarcely surprised when Fanchette came hastening
out to meet her, wringing lier hands and
apostrophising all the saints in the calendar.

Oh, mademoiselle ! ' gasped the old woman,
incoherently ' what a misfortune ! Who could
have foreseen it ? — ah, how terrible ! — Madame
la Duchesse '

Jeanne put her aside, and stepped into the
house. At the foot of the staircase Leon met her,
looking very pale and grave.

We have got her into bed,' he said, ' but I

don't know what we ought to do till the doctor
comes. No — do not go up yet ; you would be
shocked perhaps, and you can do no good. Her

face is so horribly changed, and one side "

Jeanne waited to hear no more, but hurried
upstairs into the bedroom, where, with a group
of frightened and helpless women-servants round
her bed, the poor old Duchess lay, stricken down
by paralysis.

CHAPTER XXIV.

CHANGES.

Poor old Duchess ! her long life-journey was
drawing towards a close at last. For her not
many more suns Avould rise and set. For her
there was an end of planning and plotting, of
gossip and tittle-tattle, of jewels and laces, of
well-meant, ostentatious charities, of patronising
humble folks and smiling upon great ones. Yet
a few days, and she would have passed over into
the ranks of that silent, unseen multitude to whom
the reed is as the oak.' The doctor came up
post-haste, but she was beyond help of doctors,
as the good man himself was the first to admit,
blowing his nose loudly the Awhile, with a many-coloured
pocket-handkerchief.

Ah, Monsieur le Marquis,' said he sorrowfully,
' I am completely upset. A lady so noble,
so venerable ! Our consolation must be that she
has been spared to reach a great age ; and that in

spite of a constitution far from robust. I do not
say it to vaunt myself, though it is true that
Madame la Duchesse has availed herself of my
poor services for many years past. Alas, monsieur,
in her I lose the most amiable of my patients.'


He might have added the most lucrative too ;
and very likely this aspect of the misfortune did
not fail to present itself to him, seeing that doctors
are, after all, but men, and very generally
have families to support. Some directions and
prescriptions he gave, as in duty bound ; but he
was careful to mention that they would be of very
little use. The end might come immediately, orin
the course of a day or two ; it was not likely,
in any case, to be delayed beyond a week. Under
the circumstances, one could hardly wish that it
should be. And so the doctor took his leave, and
scrambled into the shabby leather-curtained waggonette
that was waiting for him at the door.

Au pas, malheureux, au pas I ' Leon heard
him exclaim, in a strident whisper, as the coachman
whipped up his rough little horse. ' Have
you no entrails, then, that you drive away as from
a wedding ? *

The Duchess did not die that dav, nor the

next, and gradually recovered consciousness, but
not speech. The household was disorganised, as
all households are at such times. There was not
much to be done, yet nobody liked to go about
his ordinary avocations. The servants collected
in the corridors, and talked together in awestruck
undertones ; M. de Fontvieille hurried in
and out, upon one needless errand or another ;
and Leon wandered uneasily about the house,
stealing on tiptoe, every now and then, into the
darkened room where Jeanne sat, night and day,
by the bedside of the dying woman.

Of what was the poor old soul thinking, as
she lay there through the long, hot hours, her
eyes wandering restlessly over wall and ceiling,
and one withered hand for ever plucking at the
bed-clothes ? More than once, when Leon was
beside her, she struggled hard to speak, and
looked at him with a piteous, entreating gaze
which troubled the lad a little.

'What is it? What does she mean?' he
whispered to his sister: but Jeanne avoided
answering the question. She had a feeling that it
would be hardly generous to urge, at this time,
what she believed to be the Duchess's wish, seeing
that it was identical with her own. M. de Font-vieille

was less scrupulous. ' The cause of her
agitation is evident enough,' he said. ' Promise
her that you will remain at home, and take care
of your sister, when she is gone, poor, dear lady,
and you will see that she will become tranquil at
once. Come, my boy, you cannot refuse to perform
so simple an act of duty, and to soothe the
last moments of one who has been as much as a
mother to you.'

Leon, however, did refuse. Certainly, he
said, he would promise to do his duty towards his
sister to the best of his ability. More than that
he could not do, and more audit not to be asked
of him. For the sake of no one, having or dead,
would he bind himself to abstain from striking a
blow for his country.

So, if that were what poor old Madame dc
Breuil wanted, she had to do without it, as she
had had to do without many another thing in the
course of her long pilgrimage.

This world is but a poor place,' sighed old
Fanchette, with her apron up to her eyes — 'nothing
but vexation and disappointment and pain,
from beginning to end. madame la Duchesse is
more to be envied than we who remain behind.
Ah, if we had all lived as she has done, there

would be little need to say masses for the repose of
our souls when our own time came. Heaven be
praised ! she will soon be an angel in Paradise.'

I don't know whether the Duchess was very
anxious to be an angel, or in any great hurry to
enter Paradise. Once, when Jeanne, in a despondent
mood, had expressed a doubt whether
life was worth having, the old lady had assured
her that in a few years' time she would certainly
answer the question in the affirmative. ' You
young people are fractious and impatient. If life
closes not bring you exactly what you want, you
cry out that you are tired of it. For me life is
like an old friend from whom I can take occasional
rough usage without murmuring, and whom
I should love for old acquaintance sake, if for no
other reason.' Now she had to bid adieu to her
old friend for ever ; to leave ' the warm precincts
of the cheerful day,' and set out, shivering and
alone, for some unknown land. Very possibly the
outlook may not have seemed to her an altogether
smiling one. However, as she never spoke again,
nobody had any opportunity of arriving at the
state of her mind, and the priests who came to
administer the viaticum to her declared that her
exemplary life had found a fitting conclusion in
the most edifying of death-beds.

And so, at length, Louise, Duchesse de Breuil,
passed away, fortified by the sacraments of the
Church. She had been a well-known woman in
her day, but had outlived name, fame, beauty and
friends by many, many years, and the news of
her death affected nobody beyond her own home
circle, unless it was the Due de Breuil, who considered
that he lead been kept out of a portion of
his rightful income by her for an inexcusably longtime.


Jeanne took the loss of her kindly, fussy old
duenna terribly to heart. Long as she had foreseen
the approach of the inevitable event, and
calmly as she had often spoken of it, yet, when it
came, it almost stunned her by its suddenness,
and overwhelmed her with that feeling of yearning
regret and remorse to which few people can
be strangers. Xow that it was too late to make
any amends, she acknowledged to herself humbly
and sadly that she had never done the Duchess
justice. She remembered, with many a pang of
shame, how little allowance she had made for the
querulousness of old age and for a character
differing at every point from her own. All her
bygone rejections of proffered confidences, all her
cold or scornful speeches and occasional little

VOL. II. R

shabby acts, rose up before lier in proportions
wliicli they would undoubtedly never have assumed
if the subject of them had been alive and
well. Everybody knows the sensation. It passes
away with time, like all human sensations, good
and bad, and I dare say a great many of us manage
to get over it in the course of a week. Jeanne,
who felt more deeply than most, did not rally so
quickly. Had she been less unhappy on her own
score, at this time, no doubt the blow would not
have fallen so heavily upon her ; as it was, she
seemed utterly crushed and altered by it. She
would sit for hours, silent and motionless, with
her hands before her, unable to settle down to
any occupation, and forgetful even of the household
duties which had hitherto been as a second
nature to her ; she could hardly be prevailed upon
to eat anything ; and any trifle — a passing allusion,
the sight of the Duchess's empty chair, or of
a sunshade lying where the old lady had laid it
down, for the last time, on the hall table — sufficed
to send her into a paroxysm of hysterical weeping.


Leon, albeit ' profoundly touched ' — to use
his own expression — by the spectacle of so much
sensibility, ended by finding it a little irritating.

Grief over their joint bereavement was, of course,
highly becoming — he himself had shed ' a torrent
of tears ' on the day of the funeral — but that grief
should be thus prolonged, day after day, and week
after week, was surely neither natural nor needful
; and what made it especially inconvenient
was that, while Jeanne continued in this frame of
mind, neither he nor M. de Foutvieille liked to
trouble her with those discussions as to her future
manner of life which the circumstances rendered
urgent, and in which both of them felt that her
voice ought to be heard. The upshot of it was
that they took their own line of action, deeming
it, upon the whole, most advisable to keep the
person principally concerned in the dark until
they should be able to lay some definite proposition
before her.

This moment came towards the end of October,
when M. Gambetta, newly descended from
his balloon, was working with might and main at
the formation of a new national army ; when
Saint-Luc, who had turned up at Tours in the
nick of time to receive a colonel's commission, was
collecting and drilling a rough corps of eclaireurs-
a-cheval; when a sudden revival of hope was
spreading through the length and breadth of the

land, and when Metz, alas ! was tottering to its
fall.

Algiers and its neighbourhood lay quivering
and gasping under the scorching heat of a sirocco
which had already lasted two days, blowing not,
as in the winter time, in furious gusts, but in
steady, slowly-moving waves of red-hot air — if
such an expression be permissible. The sky overhead
was of a dull coppery hue ; the mountains
were veiled ; the sun shone dimly through an
atmosphere impregnated with a hovering mist of
fine sand, which settled and penetrated everywhere
— even through the closed windows and
shutters of the salon where Jeanne, utterly prostrated
both in mind and body, lay idly stretched
upon a sofa. To her entered M. de Fontvieille,
exhausted but unconquered, and seating himself
at her side, drew a bundle of letters fi'om his
pocket, and cleared his voice with the unmistakable
air of one who lias a statement to make.

'I fear, my dear child,' he began, ' that I do
not find you much disposed to talk over some
matters of importance.'

Not much,' murmured Jeanne faintly.

No ; it is not expected that you should be.
Still, business is business, and correspondence must

not be left unanswered. Has it ever occurred to
you that, under present circumstances, you can
hardly continue to live as you are now living ? —
that the laws of society do not permit a young
lady to dispense with some — protector ? '

Have I not got Leon ? '

It is of a protector of your own sex that you
stand in need. And besides, Leon cannot be with
you much longer. Li point of fact, M. de Saint-luc
has offered to find a place for him in his
regiment ; and I believe I may say he has accepted
the offer.'

He might have told me about it,' said Jeanne.
I have never been selfish with him. I should not
have attempted to keep him here, now that the
Duchess is gone '

Dear mademoiselle, neither you nor anyone
else could have kept him here. The young man
has got the war-fever ; and I know of no remedy
for that disease except shells and bullets, and even
they do not cure everybody. What would you
have ? We were all young once.'

I am not complaining of Leon — nor of anything.
What is it that you wish me to do ? '

'I was about to tell you. As soon as I saw
that Leon was determined to leave us, and that it

would be necessary to place you under the care of
some relation or friend up to the time of your
marriage, I wrote to your cousins in Auvergne,
laying the case before them, and asking them
whether' they would be prepared to offer you a
temporary home, adding, at the same time, that
you would willingly contribute whatever sum they
might think fit towards the defrayed of any increased
household expenditure which your visit
might entail. Their answer was not of the most
(cordial. They said it would give them great
pleasure to receive you, but that you Avould be
badly lodged, as the chateau was unfortunately
under repair. They thought it only right to add
that, in the present lamentable state of the country,
their own plans must be very uncertain, and
that they might be compelled to leave France at
lucy moment. Finally, they assured me that, poor
as they were, and heavy as the cost would probably
be of entertaining one who was not accustomed
to their rough country fare, it was not
their habit to send in a bill to their guests. Leon
and I agreed that, before continuing negotiations
with these civil-spoken people, wee would address
ourselves to your mother's sister, Madame Ashley.
Ah, this time, for example, we fell upon a human

being ! Here is her response, which arrived this
morning. Its French is original, its style is not
precisely that of the Academy, but its sentiments
are those of a woman of heart. Excellent and
respectable lady ! Here is her letter ; read it for
you-self.

Holmhurst, Surrey, October 1870.
'MON CHER Monsieur,

Je viens de recevoir votre lettre, et j'ap-
prends avec sincere regret la mort de Madame la
Duchesse de Breuil. Je n'ai jamais eu Advantage
de connaitre cette dame personnellement, mais
j'ai bien souvent enteudu parler delle, et je ne
doute point qu'elle ne soit entree, comme vous
dites, dans le royaume des cieux, oil je compte
rencontrer, un jour, tons les bons chretiens,
quoique pas catholique-romaine moi-meme.

Quant k la chere niece que je ne connais que
de nom, je n'ai assortment pas besoin de vous dire
qu'elle sera mille fois la bien venue chez nous,
que mes files ont grande envie de faire sa connaissance,
et que plus longtemps elle restore avec
nous, plus nous serous contents. Je voudrais bien
qu'il flit possible que son marriage eut lieu de
cette maison. Ce serait pour nous une belle fete,

et nous avons meme dans la voisinage une tres-gentile
petite chapelle catholique-romaine ou la
ceremonie pourrait etre solemnise. Mais pour
9a il faudra attendre la fin de cette malheureuse
guerre. Dieu velle que M. de Saint-Luc en revienne
sain et sauf, ainsi que non bon neveu
Leon, que nous avons tons appris a aimer pendant
son sejour en Angleterre.

'En attendant, Jeanne sera ici comme chez-elle.
Nous ferons de notre mieux pour la rendre
confortable, et jose promettre qu'elle n'aura k se
plaindre de rien, si ce n'est du climat, qui, du
reste, est moins mauvais qu'onne le pretend.
Dites-lui, avec mon meilleur amour (c'est une expression
anglaise qui se comprend mais ne se traduit
pas) que nous la recevrons de grand coeur.

'Excusez, monsieur, mon mauvais francis.
Du temps de ma jeunesse je parlais passablement
bien votre langue, mais depuis lors j'aioublie bien
des choses, et ce qui est le plus ennuyeux c'est
que je ne puis trouver, dans ce moment, ni mon
dictionnaire ni mon Noel et Chapel. C'est legal
vous e'en comprendrez pas moins qu'il me tarde
d'embrasser la fille de ma pauvre chere soeur, et
que je vous suis bien reconnaissance de toute la
bone que vous avez cue pour elle.

Eecevez, monsieur, assistance de mon amitie

sincere.

Anne Ashley.

M. Ashley fait dire qu'il ira volontiers prendre
sa niece a Marseille ; le voyage ne lui fera que du
bien. H le prolongerait meme jusqu'en Algerine,
s'il le fallait, mais pour vous dire la verite, il craint
un peu le neal de mer.'

This hearty missive came like a whifF of cool
English air to Jeanne as she sat in the stifling
atmosphere of her African home. She read it
through twice, smiling a little as she did so, for
the first time since the Duchess's death; but when
she folded it up and retmnied it to M. de Font-vieille,
she shook her head.

Dear child,' said he persuasively, ' do not let
prejudice deter you from accepting the hospitality
of these good English people. It is true that
Madame Ashley expresses herself a little like a
provincial, and places a superfluous r in mariage ;
but we must not therefore conclude that she is
either an uneducated or a vulgar person. On the
contrary, I detect in this letter traces of a refinement,
blunted, it may be, by rural surroundings,
stm '

I was not thinking of anything of that kind
interrupted Jeanne. ' It seems to me that my
aunt is as charming as she is kind' But I could
not stay at Holmhurst.'

'And why not, if you please?' asked M. de
Fontvieille, with a shade of impatience in his
voice.

Because I had rather not.'

That is not a reason.'

Is it necessary that I should give my reason
for disliking to go to England ? '

No ; but it would at least show some consideration
for those who love you, and are trying
to do their best for you, if you did. And then I
should be glad to know what alternative course
you can propose.'

Well, there is an alternative. The convent
is open to me ; and I should be very happy with
the good sisters till — till I was wanted in the
world again.'

Impossible ! ' exclaimed M. de Fontvieille,
with a gesture of horror. ' You, to whom liberty
and the free air are as meat and drink, to pass
interminable days between the four white walls
of that prison-house ! Why, you would die of it.
No one can accuse me of undervaluing the benefits

of religious life and of occasional periods of
seclusion. I admit that, by stretching a point or
two, you might get through a month of matins,
complies, vespers, needlework and the rest, without
pining away, like a sky-lark in a cage ; but
when it came to be a question of six months, or a
year — for who can say how long it may take our
armies to drive the Prussians over the frontier ?
when this house was shut up, and you had no
refuge to escape to '

I should not mind,' answered Jeanne wearily.
What I want is rest and peace.'

No ; you want change and amusement. But
let that pass. The fact is that neither Leon nor I
like the idea of your remaining in Africa at all
just now. The times are bad, and will be worse,
if I am not mistaken and misinformed. Do you
know how many trained soldiers Ave have in the
country ? I do not ; for troops have been moved
hither and thither, doing the last few weeks,
embarking here, disembarking there, marching in
and marching out, till nobody can say anything
about them, except that they are no longer visible.
What I do know is, that in the province of Oran,
in the province of Constantine, and over yonder
in Kabylia, messieurs les indigenes are growing

restless. They have heard that the Empire has
fallen, and to their simple notions the Empire is
France. For my own part, I have always liked
the Arabs ; they are a brave race, and we have
been educating them into a loyal one ; but they
have still many things to learn — such as, for instance,
the possible existence of a government
without a head, the criminal folly of insurrection,
and perhaps also the inviolability of convents.
Ever since the news of Sedan came, I have
observed that the natives have adopted a certain
manner of looking at me as I pass. I, who am
but an old man, with one foot in the grave, shrug
my shoulders, and look at them in return ; but I
have taken to carrying a revolver, and I have sent
away my jewels into a place of safety. It is a
measure of precaution for which I hope you will
live to thank me one day ; and that is why I must
strenuously oppose your project of immuring
yourself at El Biar.'

As you please,' answered Jeanne, too tired
and too indifferent to argue. ' I will go to my
cousins in Auvergne, then.'

Where you will be as welcome as snow in
June ! I thought you more reasonable, Jeanne.
What objection can you possibly have to availing

yourself of the kindness of these excellent
Ashleyss ? '

Dear M. de Fontvieille, do not be impatient
with me. I am so tired, and so — so unhappy.'
Jeanne's lip quivered, and she stopped short ; but
recovering herself immediately, she resumed, in a
steadier voice : ' I am ready to do whatever you
and Leon think best ; and my reason for not
wishing to go to England is not of any great
importance, after all. It was only that Mr.
Barrington lives close to the Ashleyss, and that I
did not wish to meet him again so soon.'

M. de Fontvieille was at once mollified and
delighted. A touch of sentiment appealed to his
tenderest feelings. ' Poor child ! — poor child ! '
he murmured, patting her gently on the shoulder.
You have not forgotten, then ; and I, old fool
that I am ! have been wrongfully accusing you of
heartlessness. I ask your pardon; I offer you
my respectful sympathy— I, who have passed, in
my time, along the path which you are now
treading, and who know all its rough places. Go,
dear mademoiselle, go without fear ; you will
suffer, perhaps, but less than you expect. A
bourgeoise placed as you are would do well to
hesitate ; people of our race are differently built.

L' amour nest quHun plaisir Honneur est un
devoir" as Corneille says ; and I would answer
for it with my life that you will never forget, in
the presence of Mr. Barrington, that you are the
affianced bride of the Vicomte de Saint-Luc'

Either Jeanne's dormant pride was aroused by
this little piece of fanfaronnade, or else she was
too weary to resist pressure. She promised to
write to Mrs. Ashley by the next post, and to
make immediate preparations for her journey.

So M. de Fontvieille went home with his mind
at ease, and meeting Leon on the threshold, told
him that all was satisfactorily arranged.

With a little tact and discretion one can
always bring reasonable people to understand
their duty,' said the old gentleman, modestly
exultant.

I'm very much obliged to you, monsieur,'
answered Leon, as he entered the house, and bade
his valuable ally good evening. He, too, had his
preparations to make, his last instructions to give,
his last words to say, before leaving the old home
to which it might well be that he would never
return again.

CHAPTER XXV.

IN WHICH Leon PLAYS THE PART OF BAYARD TO
A LIMITED AUDIENCE.

Preparations for a prolonged absence from home
packing up of clothes, sorting and burning of
papers, paying of outstanding bills, and all the
other troublesome little duties which crop up
thick and fast at such times — are not, in themselves,
very enjoyable ; but in so far as they serve
to dull the pain of parting, they must be acknowledged
to be blessings in disguise. Leon had his
hands so full during the brief remaining period of
his Liberty, that neither he nor Jeanne had much
leisure for reflection ; and this was, perhaps, just
as well for both of them.

The time, indeed, proved shorter even than
the embryo soldier had anticipated ; for on the
very day after that on which M. de Fontvieille had
divulged his intentions, he received orders from
Tours to join his new regiment within a week ;

and thus a great deal of business had to be crowded
into a very few hours, while not a little had to be
neglected altogether.

Pierre Cauvin, an honest but obstinate and
punctilious old person, did not help much to expedite
matters. He insisted upon it that he must
have categorical instructions from his young master
upon a variety of points which might easily have
been left to his own discretion ; where difficulties
did not already exist he managed to create them ;
and it was owing to his representations that Leon's
last day was spent far away from home, upon the
stud-farm at Koleah, inspecting horses, and authorising
the sale of all such as were in a fit condition
to fetch their proper value.

It was not until after nightfall that Leon, dusty
and weary, rode into the stable yard of the Campagne
de Mersac. Jeanne saw him arrive from
the window of her bedroom, where she had been
busy, all the afternoon, over the hopeless task of
compressing every article of necessity and luxury
she could think of into the modest limits of a
soldier's kit. She saw him dismount, and hastily
wash his face and hands at the pump, while a
groom brushed him down ; and then, to her great
disappointment, a fresh horse was led out, and he

swung himself into the saddle, and rode away
again. After a few minutes a scrap of paper was
brought to her, on which he had scribbled : ' No
time to come in. One or two more things that I
must do. Back in an hour, I hope.'

Poor boy ! ' murmured Jeanne, ' he will tire
himself out.' And then she went downstairs,
dragged out the most comfortable arm-chap' she
could find on to the verandah, and placed a table
beside it, with cigars and ice and wine, ready for
his return. She would doubtless have done as
much had she been aware of the nature of her
brother's errand ; but she would have done it ^viih
a somewhat heavier heart : and it was probably
because he was aware of this that Leon had
thoughtfully abstained from mentioning that one
of the few precious hours still at his disposition
was to be devoted to Madame de Tremonville.

The sirocco had blown itself out now, and
had ended with a short, sharp shower, a welcome
herald of the longed-for autumnal rains. Filmy
wreaths of wind-driven cloud were sailing high
beneath the stars, a grateful smell of moisture
was rising from the parched earth, and the outlines
of all distant objects were clear against the
sky, as Leon cantered over the hills towards Mus-vol.

II. s

tapha. There were lights in the drawing-room
of the villa before which he drew rein at length ;
and the servant who answered his ring informed
him that madame was alone, and would receive.
Madame, who was seated at the piano, did not
rise upon the entrance of her admirer.

Ah, it is you,' said she, smiling and nodding
at him. ' And so you are really going to the war,
and you have come to bid me good-bye. Do you
know that is very pretty of you ? '

And, striking a few chords, she began to sing,
half mockingly —

Beau chevalier, qui partez pour la guerre,

Qu'allez vous faire

yi loin d'ici ?

Voyez-vous pas que la nuit est profonde,

Et que le monde

N'est que souci ?

But as Leon put a very grave face upon it, she
broke off, took him by both hands, and forcing
him gently on to a footstool at her feet, looked
straight into his eyes, with a gaze that might have
troubled an older man, sighing ever so slightly
the while.

So then it is all over,' she murmured. *Go,
Monsieur le Marquis, go, and forget your friends.

We, on our side, shall try to forget you too. That
is what you wish, is it not ? '

'wish you to forget me, madame I ' ejaculated
Leon, reproachfully. ' You cannot be speaking
seriously.'

If you cared about the matter at all, you
would not be in such a hurry to go away,' returned
Madame de Tremonville, averting her
head.

I am not in a hurry. I have remained here
so long already that I am ashamed of myself. If
I go now at last, it is because no honourable man
could act otherwise. It is because '

Ah, bah ! ' interrupted the lady, with a sudden
change of mood. • Spare me the rest of the
speech, I have heard it so often ! I see you
coming with your patriotic hymns — " Mourir pour
la patrie," — " Aux amies, citoyens I " All that is
very well for the cafes-chantants, but it has gone
out of fashion in drawing-rooms, let me tell you.'

I have heard you-king the air yourself,
madame,' remarked Leon, rather hurt.

In July last ? Very likely. It was more or
less of a novelty then, and we had an army which
was going to march to Berlin, tambour battant.
Now that every man in the country has beens

2

shouting, every woman screeching, every little
boy whistling, and every dog barking the Marseillaise
incessantly for three months, I am beginning
to grow a little tired of it ; and instead of
the army, which exists no longer, we have the
undisciplined, mutinous rabble which you are so
eager to join. I wish you joy of your comrades.'

Such as they are, they have taken up arms
against the invader.'

'And they show their contempt for him by
turning their backs upon him whenever he appears.
Do not scowl at me, it is not polite. I
know that there are brave men, and men of family
amongst this canaille ; but, for any good they are
likely to do, they might as well have remained at
home. The game was lost long ago ; and it is
time that we stopped playing, and paid the stakes.
By the way, there was a rumour in the town today
that Bazaine had capitulated to the Prince
Frederick Charles.'

Impossible ! '

Not in the least — nor even improbable. For
my part, I hope the news may be true. It will
bring us nearer to the end.'

This was more than Leon could endure. Many
things had combined to make him doubt, of late,

whether Madame de Tremonville were quite the
ideal being he had once imagined her ; but he
had never, until now, believed her capable of rejoicing
over the misfortunes of her country.

Madame,' said he, getting up with a tragic
air which nearly upset the gravity of his entertainer,
' I hope that you do not mean what you
say ; but whether you do or not, I cannot stay
here to listen to such words. You spoke just now
of my forgetting you. That I shall never do ;
but I wish to have nothing' but what is agreeable
associated with you in my memory ; and for that
reason I shall now, with your permission, bid you
good-bye.'

Madame de Tremonville's answer to this dignified
address was of a practical and effective kind.
She started to her feet, laid a tiny, dimpled hand
on each of Leon's broad shoulders, and compelled
him to subside again on the footstool fi'om ^diich
he had just arisen, like a Jack-in-the-box. She
did not choose that Leon should go away in a
huff, for two reasons : firstly, because she was
greedy of admiration, and would almost as soon
have parted with one of her diamonds as with the
dullest of her adorers ; secondly, because she had
wit enough to see that, in those days, it behoved

wise people to have friends in all parties. Who
could tell what future might lie hidden behind
the mists of the present? Henri V. might be
reigning, by the grace of God, in France before
the year Alas out ; arid then the Marquis de Mer-sac
might have a nice little appointment, or possibly
a big one, to offer to anyone who should
have been fortunate enough to gain his good
opinion.

Sit down, my brave knight,' said she, in a
tone of soft raillery, ' and do not quarrel with a
poor, ignorant woman, who knows very little
about battles and politics. The Seigneur de
Bayard, whom yon resemble in many points,
would never have permitted himself to speak so
roughly to a lady. But he has been dead these
four hundred years ; and since his time we have
forgotten much, and also learnt some few things
amongst others, that it is a crime to sacrifice
life uselessly. I am as good a patriot as another
as M. Gambetta, for instance, or yourself — but
it is not forbidden, while loving one's country, to
love also — what am I saying? — to feel some
anxiety about the safety of one's friends.'

Oh, madame ! do you mean — can you
mean ? '

What ? That I should be sorry if you were
to meet with Bayard's fate ? I don't say no.'

Leon was seated a bare three inches above the
level of the ground, his long legs gathered up
uncomfortably before him, and his nose resting
on his knees. It was neither an easy nor a
graceful attitude, and it occurred to him to
change it.

A moment later, the unsuspecting M. de Grenville,
hurrying into the room in search of
some papers, was privileged to behold — through
his spectacles — a highly effective tableau. His
wife, seated upon a music-stool, was holding a
lace-bordered pocket-handkerchief to her eyes
with her left hand, while her right was passively
receiving the ardent kisses of an exceedingly
handsome young man who knelt before her.

'Acre nom de now I ' ejaculated the astounded
husband, forgetful of acquired good breeding, and
falling back, in his surprise, upon the simple
expletives of his youth.

Leon scrambled to his feet, looking very
sheepish, and, truth to tell, wishing most devoutly
in his heart that he had never come to the villa
at all ; and Madame de Tr^monville bm'st into a
peal of uncontrollable laughter. The situation

was, perhaps, not so entirely novel a one to lier
as to cause her any special embarrassment.

The more she laughed, the blacker grew the
countenances of the two men, both of whom
might, indeed, be excused for failing to appreciate
the joke.

When you have quite conquered your merriment,
madame,' said M. de Tremonville in a tone
of suppressed fury, ' yon will perhaps offer me
some explanation of your conduct. As for Monsieur
le Marquis '

I am ready to give you any satisfaction you
may demand, monsieur,' said poor Leon, dolefully.


Madame de Tremonville's gaiety redoubled.
A duel ! ' she cried, clapping her hands ecstatically.
' Charming ! perfect ! Ah, Baptiste ! how
many times have I not entreated you to take a
few lessons in fencing, and to practise with a
pistol, every now and then, in the garden? Something
has always told me that you were destined
to have an affair, and now you see that I was
right.'

Duelling is contrary to my principles,' replied
M. de Tremonville, who had tiu'ued a trifle pale ;
also I decline to risk my life for the sake of one

SO worthless as you. Your perfidy, madame, is
equalled only by your effrontery.'

Hush ! hush ! my poor Baptiste. Those
who have not the courage to fight should not
use insulting language. Pick up your papers
and go back to your study ; you will never learn
to be a man of the world. After your absurd
behaviour you deserve no explanation : nevertheless
you shall have one. When you came
in, M. de Mersac — who leaves for France tomorrow
morning — was only bidding me adieu in
the style of the middle ages, a period of history
which he especially admires, and which, I must
admit, had the advantage of ours in point of
courtesy. Let this be a lesson to you, Baptiste,
not to judge by first appearances, and to refrain
from vulgar expressions of astonishment at the
sight of anything that you do not understand.'

In that case,' answered M. de Tremonville,
accepting this lame explanation with somewhat
suspicious readiness, ' I can only offer my excuses
to you and to monsieur*. Monsieur' le Marquis,
permit me to express to you my unfeigned
regret '

Enough ! enough ! ' interrupted Madame de
Tremonville, unceremoniously. ' They are accepted

— your excuses. You have spoilt a pretty
little piece of acting ; but we forgive you — and
will detain you no longer.' And, as the door
closed upon the mystified husband, she gave way
to another outburst of mirth.

What a ridiculous incident ! ' she exclaimed.
It has killed romance for the remainder of the
evening, that is certain. With the best will in
the world I could not begin again where I left
ofi'. What shall we do now to amuse ourselves ?
Shall I sing to you, or shall we have a game of
ecarte ? Or would you like to take a walk round
the garden ? I am dying for a mouthful of fresh
air.'

Bat Leon replied gravely that he must resist
all these temptations. He had promised to
return home within an hour, and had already
considerably over-stayed his time. In truth, the
scene in which he had just taken part had disconcerted
him not a little. He was not sure
that he had been any less ridiculous than M. de
Tremonville, or even that he had been any less
laughed at.

Adieu, madame,' said he, in melancholy
accents ; and he contrived to infuse a tinge of
reproach into his tone.

'Adieu, monsieur.' she replied carelessly,
executing a flourish upon the piano.

She never raised her eyes from the keys until
Leon had reached the door ; then she jumped up,
ran after him, and laid her hand upon his arm.

'Can you leave me like that?' she cried.
Have you nothing more to say to me ? '

'Nothing that you would care to hear,
madame,' answered Leon, hesitatingly.

Who knows ? But you are right, perhaps,
to keep silence if you desire to be remembered.
You will always live in my memory now as the
most discreet young man I have ever met. Let me
only give you a little forecast of your fate — it will
not take a minute — and then you shall go in peace.'

She took up a pack of cards which lay on the
table as she spoke, and began rapidly dealing
them out.

A long journey — danger — honoiu: and success,'
she muttered. 'Ah! there is the king of
spades, which spoils all. Ace of hearts, that is
better — a crisis ; but you will come out of it

safely — two of diamonds — two of clubs '

The jewels on her plump white hands flashed
as she deftly shifted the cards hither and thither ;
the lines about her mouth deepened ; an anxious

frown gathered upon her well-povvdercd brow.
Madame de Tremonville had next to no conscience,
and very little religion ; but as a set-off,
she had a rich store of misdirected faith.

Things might > be worse for you,' she announced
at length, quite seriously ; ' but you will
have troubles and dangers to pass through, and
it is well to be prepared against every emergency.
Take this, and wear it always round your neck ;
it is an Arab amulet, which a General who is
dead now, gave me years ago. They say it is a
protection against mortal wounds. For the rest,
I will pray the blessed Virgin and your patron
Saint to watch over you. Now go ; I permit you
to kiss my hand.'

The next minute she was back at the piano,
and had resumed her ordinary light manner.

Beau chevalier, qui partez pour la guerre,'
she sang again —

Beau chevalier, qui partez pour lu guerre,

Qu'allez vous faire

Si loin de nous ?

E'en vais pleurer, moi qui me laissais dire,

Que mon sourire

Etait si doux.

The refrain hung in Leon's head long after

he had ridden away in the starlight, and had
recovered from the bewilderment into which he
had been thrown by this fantastic farewell. It
was the last he ever heard of Madame de Grenville.


CHAPTEE XXVI.

THE LAST EVENING.

While Leon was spending his valuable time in
the edifying manner described in the last chapter,
Jeanne was waiting for him on the verandah with
such patience as she could command. Her long
day's work was finished ; her back was aching
with stooping over trunks and folding up clothes ;
her eyes were tired and heavy ; and to sit thus
idly in the still night air would have been perhaps
the most sensible thing she could have done,
if inaction were, what it unfortunately is not,
synonymous with rest.

So lovely and quiet a night might have
brought her peace, had she been in a mood
susceptible to external influences. All the world
around her lay wrapped in a dreamy silence,
enhanced, rather than broken, by the snoring
croak of the frogs in the pool hard by ; the wind

had dropped to a fitful breeze, which, every now
and again, wafted faint aromatic odours to her
from the de^vy shrubs ; the luminous southern
stars looked calmly down upon her from their
immeasurable height —

As a little thing beholding
Man his long career unfolding.

But Jeanne had no ears just then for the
soothing voices of Nature, nor could she derive
any of the comfort which some people profess to
feel from a philosophic contemplation of her own
insignificance. On the contrary, her mind was so
filled and harassed with thoughts of herself and
of those dearest to her — with doubts, and fears,
and anxieties — that she could hardly have said,
without an efibrt, whether the night were starry
or clouded.

How, indeed, could it have been otherwise
with her, seeing that she had reached, and knew she
had reached, the term of a period in her existence,
the end of a long stage in her journey through
the world, the last words of the first chapter of
her life? Soon she must turn over the leaf; and
who could tell what the next page might reveal ?
.A dismal tale of anxiety and disappointment very
likely, or, worse still, the brief, black-bordered

record of a misfortune too terrible to be named
as yet, even in thought. Jeanne shuddered, and
turned resolutely away from the mental picture
which rose before her. * What is the use of
tormenting oneself about troubles which do not
exist ? The present is bad enough ; I will not
think any more about the future,' she determined,
very sensibly. Immediately after which
she went back to her gloomy forecasts.

The mind is like a ship ; it must be underway
before it can be steered into this or that
channel. Let it lie idle, and it will drift hither
and thither, at the mercy of any chance current,
and refuse to answer the helm. Jeanne, who-seas
out of health, out of spirits, and very tired, had
lost all self-control for the time ; and what with
the horrors conjured up by her imagination, wdiat
with the irritability which prolonged waiting for
anybody or anything always engenders, had soon
fretted herself into a condition of nervousness in
which all conceivable calamities seemed probable,
and good fortune a thing past hoping for.

When at last Leon arrived, he was startled
and shocked by the glimpse of his sister's face
which he caught as he stepped out on to the
verandah ; it looked so sad and wan and drawn.

Why, Jeanne,' said he, laying his hand
gently upon her shoulder, ' what is the matter ?
You have been over-fatiguing yourself.'

She turned her head, and looked up at him with
pitiful eyes. She tried to speak, but the words
would not come. Iter hips quivered, and presently
two tears brimmed over from her eyelids
and rolled slowly down her pale cheeks. Leon
was down on his knees beside her chair, and had
his arms round her in a minute.

What is it, Jeanne ? What is it, ma soeur 1 '
he exclaimed. ' Who has been troubling you ? '

Perhaps this heart had already answered the
question. He was rather selfish, as most young
men are, but he had a conscience, which is likewise
one of the attributes of youth ; and it may
very likely have smitten him, just then, with a
remorseful memory of the long period during
which he lead avoided and neglected the sister
who had sacrificed so much for him, and whom he
was now about to part with, perhaps for ever.

Tell me all about it, Jeanne,' he whispered,
kissing her forehead. It was the first time for
many months that he had spoken to her in that
tone, and Jeanne was quite upset by it. She
threw her arms round her brother's neck, hid

VOL. II. T

her face on his shoulder, and sobbed like any
child.

Love me a little, Leon,' she murmured ; ' you
are all I have in the world.'

Jeanne, Jeanne ! you know I love you !
Something has come between us lately; it has
been all my fault, I know. It has been ever
since that accursed night when I lost the money.
I fancied you despised me — you would have been
quite right if you had, Heaven knows ! And
then Saint-Luc '

No,' interrupted Jeanne, hastily ; ' if anybody
has been to blame, it is I. I have been unhappy
and anxious, and that has often made my manner
disagreeable, though indeed I have never wished
it to be so. Let us forget what has passed. Weare
good friends now, are we not ? and we will
never be anything else again. I am sorry I
should have treated you to a scene on your last
night, dear,' she added, straightening herself in
her chair, and drying her eyes. ' I think it must
be the heat that makes me so silly, and takes
away all my courage and strength. Now sit
down in that arm-chair that is waiting for you,
and tell me the news from the farm. Have you
sold all the colts, and is Pierre as dissatisfied as

usual with the price you have got for them?
What bargains he will drive for us, and what a
bad name we shall get in the country while weare
away ! '

Jeanne was always a little shy after having
displayed emotion, even before her brother ; and
Leon, who understood her, accepted the change
of subject.

I have disposed of nearly everything that has
four legs to stand upon,' he answered cheerfully,
and I have told Pierre he must get rid of the
cripples upon the best terms he can obtain. I
don't choose to leave my farm ready stocked for
the Arabs to plunder.'

Do you think there will be an insurrection,
then?'

I hope there will not ; but one never can tell.
What is certain is that, if the Arabs do rise now,
or a short time hence, they will overrun the whole
province, for we have no troops to send against
them. I mean to have everything valuable sent
away even from this house as soon as you are
gone, though I hardly think they will get as near
the town as this.'

What are you going to do with the ponies,
Leon? I wish you would sell them.'

T '2

The ponies I bought from Saint-Luc, do you
mean? I was thinking of sending them to stables
in Algiers.'

Don't do that ; what is the use of going to
such an expense ? I should be so glad if you
would get rid of them.'

Well, you see, it is not a very good time
for selling ponies,' said Leon, stroking his chin
thoughtfully. ' The Government is buying up
every sort and kind of horse, sound and unsound,
but they have a certain standard of size unfortunately,
and nobody else has any money to spend.
And then there is that scrape on the shoulder
that Ca'id got the clay you let him down.'

I did not let him down,' interrupted Jeanne,
indignantly. ' I never let a horse down in my
life.'

Well, the day he came down. It has not
done him an atom of harm ; still purchasers will
look at these things. Why do you want to sell
the ponies ? '

Oh, it does not much matter. But you know
I never liked driving them.'

Jeanne,' said Leon, suddenly, ' if I ask you a
question, will you answer me truly ? '

Yes.'

Then do you particularly dislike Saint-Luc ? '

Xo,' answered Jeanne, raising her grave eyes
to her brother's for a moment and then dropping
them again. ' I do not particularly dislike him.'

Because, if you did '

If I did ? ' "^

I mean, if there were really any danger of
your being unhappy as his wife — only I am certain
that he would make any woman happy. And
now that he has distinguished himself so much,
his wife will have every reason to be proud of
him. I told you, did I not, that he has been
thanked by the Government for his services ? '

Did you ? I do not remember. I have
never supposed him to be anything but a brave
man.'

I can't quite make you out, Jeanne. You
always speak of him with a sort of aversion, and he
himself has noticed it. He is for ever harping upon
the subject in his letters, and I don't know how
to answer him, except by saying, what I believe
is the truth, that it is not him whom you hate,
but men in general.'

Not all men,' said Jeanne, smiling.

No ; I know there is one unworthy exception
; and I daresay you are fond of M. de Font-vieille,

and the Cure, and one or two other relics
of antiquity ; but when it comes to young men —
ah, that is another affair ! I declare that I cannot
call to mind a single one whom you have not
positively detested, except Mr. Barrington ; and I
believe you only made friends with him because
he was an Englishman. You are not like other
girls, you dear old Jeanne ; you will never be in
love with anybody.'

I do not love M. de Saint-Luc, and he knows
it,' said Jeanne. ' He has no right to complain of
me.'

'I don't know,' said Leon, musingly. 'It
seems a little strange that you should never have
written him a line, nor even sent him a message,
after all lie has been through. Not that he does
complain, only I fancy he is rather hurt about
it.'

It I had known that he expected me to write,
I would have written,' answered Jeanne, indifferently.
' I can easily send him a line or two,
from time to time, in future, though I hardly
know what I am to say to him. Now we will
waste no more of our last evening in discussing
the subject.'

But, Jeanne,' persisted Leon, ' I want to know

one thing — do you really, of your own free-will,
wish to marry Saint-Luc ? '

I don't know exactly what you mean by my
own free-will ; nobody forces me into marrying
him. You know how the engagement came
about ; everybody wished it, and it seemed desirable
in more ways than one.'

Yes,' acquiesced Leon, with a sigh ; ' it
seemed desirable, but there have been changes
since then. Do you know, Jeanne, I am afraid
you would never have consented to the arrangement
if I had not lost that money.'

Jeanne remained silent.

What a selfish wretch I have been ! ' exclaimed
the young man, with a genuine access of
penitence. ' Happily the mischief is not irreparable.
Now that our poor Duchess has been
taken from us, there is no longer any need for
our keeping this house, and before I leave, I will
write instructions to have the whole of my property
in Algeria sold. The moment is not very
propitious ; but no matter ! I shall always realise
enough to pay Saint-Luc, and keep a sufficient
amount of capital to live upon ; and perhaps,
when the war is over, we may come back to
Africa and make a fresh start. Li any case

my good, kind Jeanne, you are free ; and the
interest of sour own fortune will more than meet
your expenses, wherever you may be. I will
explain everything to Saint-Luc when I see him.'

Jeanne rose slowly from her chair, and, bending
over her brother, kissed him on the forehead.
Then she took both his hands, and, drawing back
a little, surveyed him, with a proud, happy light
shining through her moist eyes, while he, on his
side, smiled back at her, rejoicing in his heart
that he was able once more to look his sister
in the face without an effort.'

Do you forgive me ? ' he asked at length.

Forgive you ! It is I who ought to ask for
forgiveness. I have been wronging you all this
time, Leon. I have thought — but it does not
matter what I have thought ; I know now that you
are still my own generous, foolish Leon, and that
you are ready to ruin yourself rather than let me
run any risk of unhappiness. If our dear father
were alive, he would not be ashamed of his son.'

There is every reason to suppose that these
flattering words found a ready echo in the breast
of the person to whom they were addressed. Leon
was always prone to estimate himself at the value
set upon him by others, and although he had just

accused himself of selfishness, lie had only iijied
the term in a retrospective sense.

Nonsense, ma soeur he answered lightly ; ' I
simply do my duty.' But he probably remembered,
at the same time, that this is more than
most people can say with truth.

Jeanne went on, without noticing his interpolation
— 'You must not think, though, that I
am less a de Mersac than you. What I have todo
is quite plain to me, and I intend to do it.
And therefore, my dear Leon, you will do me the
pleasure to keep the land that belongs to you, and
to take no message from me to M. de Saint-Luc,
except that, after this, I shall write to him once a
month.'

I tell you, Jeanne, my mind is made up ; and
when I say that my mind is made up '

You very often proceed to change it. Do
not look angry ; obstinacy is a vice, not a virtue,
and you need not dispute me my possession of it.
If you will think a little, you will see hoar inconvenient
and absurd it would be to alter our plans
now ; and indeed, as you say, it is so very unlikely
that I shall ever fall in love with anybody, that I
might as well marry M. de Saint-Luc as another. If
you and I could always live alone together, it

might be different ; but that is out of the question.
Some day you yourself will marry, and
then what is to become of me ? '

Do you suppose that I will ever let you have
any other home than mine ? I promise you that my
wife, whoever she may prove to be, will be made
to understand, from the first, that her entrance
into the family is to make no difference in your
position. But the fact is that I shall certainly not
marry for a great many years, and perhaps never.
The women of our time,' continued Leon, with
the solemnity of a man of varied experiences,
are not to my taste. They are artificial, hypocritical,
worldly, and heartless (you will understand
that I do not speak of you — you are exceptional),
and honest men are no match for them. They
conceal their private lives by means of a pretence
of religious fervour just as they cover their
faces with white and red paint; and who is to
tell what is beneath either ? I, unfortunately, am
very easily deceived ; and for that reason I am
resolved never to marry a pretty or fashionable
lady. No ; my wife, if ever I have one, will be a
plain, sensible person, not very young, who will
accept her position quietly, and not disturb you
in the least. But upon the whole, I think I
would rather live and die a bachelor. After all.

there is barely one woman in a hundred whom
one can trust.'

Without inquiring into the cause of this sweeping
condemnation of her sex, Jeanne expressed a
conviction that time would modify it. ' In the
course of a few years you will undoubtedly meet
the one woman out of a hundred,' she said ; ' and
though I know you would always make me welcome,
still I should not like to be third in the
household, and upon your wedding-day I should
find myself obliged to choose between two alternatives
— marriage and the convent. Probably I
am better fitted for the former, and therefore I
ought to be very glad that I have the chance of
taking M. de Saint-Luc, who has proved that he
is really fond of me, and whom I do not dislike —
indeed, I sometimes almost like him.'

It is no use, Jeanne,' answered Leon. ' You
say all this because you wish me to keep my
money ; but I have made up my mind that,
having lost, I wil pay ; and you need not give
yourself the trouble to argue the point any more,
for I warn you beforehand that you ^vill fail.'

It will scarcely, however, surprise the reader
to learn that, after another half hour of discussion,
he had so far yielded as to promise that he
would neither issue immediate instructions for

the sale of his property, nor take any steps
towards breaking off his sister's engagement.
Jeanne, on her side, agreed to leave the question
of her marriage open for the present. There was
a kind of tacit understanding between the two
young people that nothing definite was to be
settled until after the conclusion of peace. Very
likely both of them felt, though neither may have
actually faced the thought, that it was needless to
form plans which powder and shot might dispose of
at any moment.

So they settled it between them in the starlight,
and were contented with themselves and
with one another. It may have been observed
that, in the unselfish contest, the interests and
wishes of M. de Saint-Luc had not received much
attention ; but he, like the poet in Schiller's song,
had been guilty of the unpardonable fault of absence
at the critical moment, and could not,
therefore, expect to be remembered. To be sure,
the poet's consolation of substituting heavenly for
earthly joys remained open to him.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BT

SPOTTIS'WOODE AND CO., NKW-STRBKT squab

AND PAttLIAMEXT Stuart

o>

3 0112 052949010



^

r^

jYgPEXOI^ELLR
pEjY(Er|^A(^.

jlUTHOF^ Opt



^'^^^

JWesp^ofJV^oKey

J^-

J

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/mademoiselledeme03norr

OF THE
U N Rivers City
or ILLINOIS



V.3

VOL. III.

BY

W. E. Norris

AUTHOR OP 'HEAPS OP MONEY

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. III.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[All rights reserved']

CONTENTS

OF

THE Third VOLUME.

CHAPTER XXVn.

Papa
Farewell to Algiers 1

CHAPTER Xxvi.

HOLMHURST . 17

CHAPTER XXIX.

In which Jeanne takes a Walk . , . .40

CHAPTER XXX.
Jeanne gains a New Friend 64

CHAPTER XXXI.

Jeanne is shown the Scenery of Surrey . . .80

CHAPTER XXXII.

PAGE

In which Barrington does a great deal of Talking 101

CHAPTER Xxxi.
On the March 124

CHAPTER XXXIV.
Bedford Square 143

CHAPTER XXXV.

In which Barrington displays much Tact . . 172

CHAPTER XXXVI.

Miss Barrington's Patience is tried . . .199

CHAPTER XXXVII.
By the Lake of Geneva 223

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

In which all Jeanne's Troubles are dispersed . 249

CHAPTER XXXIX.
Conclusion 26S

CHAPTER XXVII.

FAREWELL TO ALGIERS.

The idlers of Algiers — Christian, Mussulman, and
Hebrew — were collected together upon the
wharves, watching, with languid curiosity, a sight
which for them had no longer the charm of
novelty — that of a huge, slab-sided transport
slowly moving through the harbour's mouth.
While a faint farewell cheer rose from the decks
of the outward-bound ship, and was answered by
a still fainter echo from those on shore, the port-admiral's
eight-oared boat was brought alongside
of the quay, and out of it stepped the admiral
himself, in full fig. He had been bidding adieu
to some friends who were leaving for France, and
had brought back with him a young lady whom a
similar errand had taken on board the transport.

VOL. III. B

The bystanders were much impressed by the majestic
beauty of this pale lady, who stepped
lightly on shore with the admiral's assistance,
bowed gracefully to the gentlemen in attendance,
and, entering the carriage which was waiting for
her, was presently whirled away in a thick cloud
of dust.

A brave girl,' remarked the admiral to one
of his subordinates, taking off his cocked hat, and
rubbing his head as he looked after her. ' I wish
there were more like her. Not but what, at such
a time, a little more display of feeling would not
have been amiss ; but war makes the best of us
hard-hearted. Come home to breakfast with me,
and v/e will drink her health, and a safe return
to the young marquis.'

Did you remark that tall young woman who
has just driven away ? ' asked one of the loafers of
his neighbour. ' That is the sister of one de
Mersac, a so-called marquis, who has engaged
himself as a volunteer, and is going to get himself
massacred over yonder. They tell me she encouraged
him to leave, though he is her only
brother, and she has no other relations.'

The citoyenne has deserved well of the
country,' responded loafer number two, lifting his
broad-leaved felt hat with a pompous gesture.

Pooh ! she belongs to a breed which deserves
nothing of the country but the guillotine. For
my ]part, I should have respected her more asa
woman if she could have spared a few tears
for her brother, who will not lead a life of
amusement, I promise you, while she is driving
about in her well-cushioned carriage. But that is
how they are made, these aristocrats — qa 7i'a pas
de coeur

These frank criticisms would hardly have
disturbed Jeanne's composure if she could have
overheard them. To be accused of insensibility
was no new experience to her, nor was it her
habit to trouble herself much about the judgment
of outsiders, if only Leon did not misunderstand
her. In truth, emotion with her seldom took the
form of weeping ; and though we have already
more than once seen her affected in this way, it
will have been observed that such exhibitions
took place only in the strictest privacy, and were
indeed attributable in part to shaken health, and
in part, also, to the fact that, after all, she had
lachrymal glands, like the rest of the world.

Stowe while her little horses trotted up the
slopes of Mustapha, she looked out upon the well-known
landscape with dry eyes, though her head

was beginning to feel heavy, and there was a dull,
gnawing pain at her heart. After a time she
turned, and entered into conversation with the
groom who sat behind lier, asking him a great
many questions about this horses, and giving him
such minute instructions as to their treatment
that he, too, albeit a faithful servant and profound
admirer of his mistress, ended by joining in the
general verdict, and wondered within himself
how she could have the heart to occupy herself
with such small details so soon. But, in truth,
she was talking mechanically, and sometimes almost
at random, being anxious chiefly to escape
from her own thoughts, and being secretly a little
frightened at the prospect of re-entering her silent,
lonely home.

It was well for her that, when she reached it,
M. de Fontvieille met her upon the threshold,
holding his hat in one hand and an open letter in
the other.

Mademoiselle,' said he, after, with his antiquated
courtesy, he had assisted her to alight,
and had offered her a trembling old arm to lead
her into the house, ' how long does a young lady
require to pack up her clothes for a journey? '

That depends. A week, perhaps, if it were
necessary to get tidings done in a hurry ; but I

would rather have a fortnight, there are so many
little matters to be seen to. You have heard from
England ac^ain ? '

Tiens, tiens, tiens ! a fortnight ! And I who
have telegraphed to this poor M. Ashley to say that
you will join him at Marseilles in four days' time! '

Impossible ! I could never be ready. Are
you so anxious, then, to get rid of me, monsieur?'

Heaven forbid ! But it seems that your
uncle has already set out to meet you, and I
imagined that it would not amuse him to wait
very long at Marseilles — especially as they are ina
state of revolution, or something very like it,
there. However, I will telegraph again to say
that you will require a week to make your preparations.
I do not think we could reasonably
ask for a longer delay than that.'

•'No, do not telegraph,' said Jeanne, with a
short sigh. ' Fanchette can put up all that I need
in twenty-four hours. What does it signify, when
all is said and done ? '

Why, little enough, indeed,' answered M. de
Fontvieille, brightening up. ' I have always been
an advocate for getting necessary partings over as
quickly as possible. What must be, must ; and
it is less painted to look back upon sorrow than to
look forward to it. Yesterday, if you will believe

me, I was so much upset by the idea of having to
bid adieu to our dear Leon, that I was compelled
more than once to have recourse to a calming
medicine. To-day, on the contrary, I am, so to
speak, at ease, and have already begun to anticipate
the happy day when we shall all be re-limited.
It is thus that we are constituted, we weak
mortals.'

What does it signify ? ' repeated Jeanne,
dreamily, thinking to herself that nothing signified
much now.

After all, the time allowed her proved sufficient
for all needful purposes, though short
enough to keep her incessantly occupied both in
body and mind, and she was dimly conscious that
it was best so. Sitting on the deck of a mail-steamer,
on the third day, and looking back at
the rapidly receding shore, with its dazzling white
buildings, its green woods and background of
snow-capped heights, she could scarcely bring
herself to believe in the reality of the swift current
of events which had swept her life clean out
of its old channel, and was bearing it away towards
a vague future, and half expected to wake
presently with a start, and find herself in her
bedroom at El Biar. So, at least, she said to herself,
and would gladly have kept up the fond

illusion, had not the outward and visible signs of
actuality been too plain to be ignored.

For the great steamer was trembling in every
plank with the throbbing of her shaft ; the crew,
a hybrid gang, such as man all Mediterranean
vessels, were shouting to one another in an unintelligible
jargon ; the passengers Averse pacing the
decks with that energy which a landsman always
displays as soon as he gets afloat in calm weather ;
the air was full of the fresh, salt smell of the sea ;
and here was Monsieur le Capitaine, a spick-and-span
gentleman in naval uniform, come to ask,
with his best bow, whether mademoiselle had all
that she required. Last, not least, M. de Font-vieille,
arrayed in a wonderful travelling costume,
which had not seen the light for some ten years,
was leaning over the bulwarks, and scanning the
coast through an ancient pair of field-glasses.

The old gentleman had insisted upon accompanying
Jeanne as far as Marseilles, despite her
assurances that she was perfectly well able to take
care of herself, declaring that poor dear Madame
de Breuil would never have sanctioned such a
proceeding as a young lady's undertaking a voyage
alone, and that, for himself, the change would do
him good. So he had unearthed the garments
afore-mentioned, had packed up his necessaries ina

handsome carpet-bag, worked for him many
years before by the late Madame de Fontvieille,
and bearing the inscription * Bon voyage' in
yellow letters upon a blue worsted ground, and
was now enjoying himself immensely in the society
of a few fellow-passengers with whom he had already
fraternised.

Depend upon it, monsieur,' Jeanne heard him
saying, ' there is nothing like travel to open a
man's mind and develop his self-reliance. I, who
am an old campaigner, so to speak, can make
myself at home where you please in five minutes.
To be sure, such a voyage as we are now embarked
upon is but a bagatelle in these days — a
mere promenade of eight-and-forty hours, nothing
more ; but when I was young, it was another
affair ! Then a man made his will, and took leave
of his friends before he stepped on board ship. I
myself — I who speak to you — have been tossed
about for a whole week in the Gulf of Lyons, and
driven back into port at the end of it. And glad
to get there too, ijarhleu ! Now we have changed
all that. With our magnificent vessels and our
steam-power we have converted the sea from a
rough master into an obedient servant, Vvdiom I
smile at, but salute for old acquaintance' sake.'

However, his obedient servant, supplemented

by a brisk nor-wester, got the upper hand of him
before iiiGflitfalL and drove him discomfited into
his cabin, where he remained until the bare hills
of Provence were well in sii^ht. Jeanne, who had
escaped sea-sickness, forbore to remark upon his
woebegone aspect when he staggered up to the
bench where she was seated, and magnanimously
allowed him to condole with her upon miseries
which she had not endured.

We have had a shocking passage,' said he,
You must have suffered horribly, my poor child ;
but never mind ! it is nearly over now. Heaven
be praised ! we shall soon be in a comfortable
hotel, and then you will only have railway journeys
to look forward to. They may say what
they like, but the sea is a vile thing — there is no
pleasure to be got out of it at all. I, alas ! must
face it again in a few days' time, but there ! we
weill not think of that. To-night we will dine well —
eras ingens iterahimus CBquoi\ as Horace says.'

And having delivered himself of this recondite
quotation with the assured air of a man who has
his classics at his fingers' ends, M. de Fontvieille
pulled a small looking-glass out of his pocket, and
began to examine his features in it anxiously.

Do I look pale ? ' he asked. ' Have I the
appearance of a bad sailor ? I hope not ; for I

am desirous of making a favourable impression
upon your uncle ; and I know what these English
are ; they have a contempt for everybody who is
not amphibious. It would be a mark of good taste
on the part of Mr. Ashley if he were to abstain
from coming to meet us when we land ; but we
must not expect too much of an Englishman.'

In the sequel, however, Mr. Ashley vindicated
the national character for delicacy — at least, he
did not come out in a boat to receive his niece,
nor was he to be discovered in the custom-house,
where the travellers were detained for a considerable
time before their luggage was delivered to
them. But when, in due course of time, they
drew up before the door of the Hotel du Louvre,
and M. de Fontvieille inquired whether an English
gentleman of the name of Achelay were staying
there, a tall, stout, white-whiskered personage
advanced through the porte-cohere remarking,
Oh ! Mossoo Ashley, best moi. How are you ?
Glad to see you.'

M. de Fontvieille skipped nimbly out of the
fiacre swept the pavement with his hat, and
poured forth a glib oration expressive of his pleasure
at meeting Mr. Ashley, and his gratitude to
that gentleman for having undertaken so long a
journey on Jeanne's behalf.

'Pas de tout, I'm sure,' replied the person
addressed. ' Delighted to have been of any use
dehglited.'

He did not seem specially delighted. He was
a dull, heaves-looking man, whose expression, sofar
as he can be said to have had any expression
appeared to imply that he would be very much
obliged if the newcomers would kindly get their
polite speeches over as soon as they could, and
go away. ' How do, Jane ? ' he continued, holding
out a big, fat hand to his niece. ' Long time
since we've met, isn't it ? '

I don't think we have ever met before,' answered
Jeanne with her grave smile.

The porter, the head waiter, the landlord, and
a little crowd of undergoes were all orazinor at the
strange lady with that admiring homage which no
Frenchman ever fails to render to beauty ; but
Mr. Ashley's half-closed eyes perceived only that
the young woman was remarkably tall.

Ah, well, no ; I suppose not. No, to be
sure,' he answered. ' I knew your mother
though,' he added, after a momentary pause, as
though that were pretty much the same thing.

Nobody knowing exactly what to say next, a
rather awkward silence ensued, which was broken
at length by a yawn from Turco, who had been

lying concealed in the fiacre and now judged it
time to make his entry in a leisurely, dignified
fashion. Mr. Ashley brightened perceptibly at
the sight of him.

What a magnificent dog ! ' he exclaimed.
Is that yours ? '

Yes,' answered Jeanne. ' I had not time to
write and ask whether you would allow me to
bring him to England ; but I thought I would
let him come as far as this upon the chance. If
he would be a trouble to you, I can easily send
him back with M. de Fontvieille.'

Trouble ? Lord bless your soul, no ! ' responded
Mr. Ashley, with more cordiality than he
had hitherto displayed. ' ]^o dog ever was a trouble
to me. I've got lots of 'em at home. Well, Fowler !''

This last familiar apostrophe was directed at
Turco, who now raised his solemn eyes, instituted
investigations of an olfactory nature, and apparently
finding them satisfactory, thrust his huge
muzzle into the speaker's hand. Dogs are more
cosmopolitan in their sympathies than humans.

After another prolonged pause, Mr. Ashley,
who had been frowning at his boots and whistling
an inaudible tune, looked up, as with a sudden
happy inspiration, remarking, ' I dare say you'd
like to go upstairs now, and change your things —

and that,' and seemed very much relieved Avhen
Jeanne answered, ' If you please.' He was a dull,
methodical man, who meant well towards his
neighbours in a general way, but disliked
strangers, by reason of the mental suffering which
he had to undergo in order to find something
suitable to say to them. Later in the day, M. de
Fontvieille, speaking under the mellow influence
of a good dinner and a bottle of Heidsieck mono-pole,
described him as a brave campagna.
Jeanne, more prudent, but less lenient, committed
herself to no articulate judgment upon her uncle,
but mentally set him down as a lourdaud.

Nevertheless, she did what she could to be
gracious to him, exerting herself to set him at his
ease, and thanking him very prettily for having
travelled so far to meet her. To which he replied,
' Oh, it doesn't matter,' with an evident
sense of hard usage strong upon him. ' I shouldn't
have minded the trip a bit, if it hadn't been for
the pheasants,' he was so good as to explain ; ' but
your aunt thought it wouldn't have done for you
to travel all by yourself — and no more it would,
of course. And I dare say we shall manage to
get home before the week is out — that is, if you
can stand a few longish days in the train.'

Jeanne answered that she was quite prepared

to perform the whole distance without a break, if
necessary ; whereat her uncle's features assumed
an expression of cheerfulness and approval.

Oh, I shouldn't think for a moment of asking
you to do that,' said he ; ' only some ladies, you
know, want to stop for the night at every ten
miles, and then grumble because the journey takes
such a long time, you know.'

Jeanne signified that she was not one of these
unreasonable persons ; and Mr. Ashley immediately
produced a Bradshaw, and began to sigh
and rub his forehead over its intricacies.

Poor M. de Fontvieille, who had perforce to
pass three days in Marseilles, and had counted
upon whiling them away with such amusements
as the sad circumstances of the time allowed of,
was rather dismayed when he heard that he was
to be left in solitude the next morniui^f. However,
he put a good face upon it, and maintained a
cheerful demeanour up to the last moment. Not
until Jeanne had already taken her place in the
railway-carriage, and Mr. Ashley was preparing
to follow her, did the old gentleman permit his
natural feelings to obtain a temporary mastery
over him. Then, with two tears tricking down
his withered cheeks, he approached the burly
Englishman, and standing upon tiptoe in order to

grasp him impressively by both elbows, delivered
himself of a brief exordium which he had prepared
beforehand.

Monsieur, I confide to your care one who is
more dear to me than my life. I do not ask you
to treat her with kindness — that would be to insult
you. who have so generously offered her
an asylum when those of her own family have
held aloof. I surrender her to you Avithout fear,
but not without a pang ; for I am an old man,
monsieur, and my time must be near at hand.
That is why I will venture to beg of you, although
we are of different faiths, to join your prayers to
mine that I may not be long separated from those
whom I love.'

Certainly — certainly ; I will, I'm sure, with
pleasure — and Mrs. Ashley too ; and we'll take
the greatest care of Jane. Don't be agitated —
pray don't ! ' pleaded Mr. Ashley, in an agony of
terror lest this demonstrative Frenchman should
proceed to embrace him coram populo. ' I think,
if you'll excuse me a minute, I'll just run and buy
a paper,' he added, almost shaking off his interlocutor
; and with that, fairly took to his heels.

M. de Fontvieille was quite satisfied. He had
not understood a word of the Englishman's hurried
speech, but he had detected in it, as he thought,

signs of sympathetic emotion. ' Best un hon cours''
he murmured, as he hoisted himself up upon the
carriage step to say his last words to Jeanne.

Dear mademoiselle — my dear child — I had a
hundred things to speak of to you, but I do not
feel that I have the strength ; and, after all, you
have no need of advice from me. You know
better than I what is right, and you never fail todo
it. Do not forget your old friend, who loves
you. Here is a small souvenir — it is only a sapphire
ring — of no great value — you know I am a
miser as regards my jewels ; but they will all
come to you soon. Write to me when you can
find the time ; I shall be very lonely without you,
and our poor Leon. Adieu, mademoiselle — adieu,
my dear Jeanne ! '

And then Mr. Ashley came running back with
his newspaper, and was pushed into his place by
the guard. The door was slammed, the train
began to move, and the course of Jeanne's life
took a fresh departure. Her last glimpse of old
associations showed her M. de Fontvieille dissolved
in tears upon the platform, waving a straw hat
with one hand and a pocket-handkerchief with
the other, while the railway officials, the gendarmes,
and the porters grouped around him
looked on with respectful interest.

CIIAPTEE Xxviii

HOLMHUKST.

Mr. Ashley, peering cautiously from behind the
shelter of his newspaper, after half-an-hour or so
of travelling, was relieved to see that his opposite
neighbour, so far from being in floods of tears, ashe
had expected her to be, was sitting upright in
her place and gazing calmly, if somewhat abstractedly,
at the flying landscape. This discovery,
together with a vague consciousness that the occasion
called for some observation of a sympathetic
nature, emboldened him to remark :

These partings are very distressing.'

Yes,' said Jeanne.

'But they are what everybody lias to go
through, sooner or later, and one mustn't give
way. I am glad to see that you don't give way.
And if there were no partings, don't you know,'
continued Mr. Ashley, struggling manfully to say

VOL. III. c

something original, ' if there weren't any partings,
there would be no meetings.'

This evidently struck him as being well put,
for, after a pause, he repeated :

If there were no partings, there would be no
meetings ; we must remember that.'

Jeanne bent her head slightly, and gave him
a little, faint smile. She had already recognised
in her uncle a worthy, but inferior species of
being, with whom it was wholly unnecessary to
converse, and whose nature fitted him rather to
obey than to command.

Her own nature, as we are aware, was of the
opposite kind ; and so Mr. Ashley, who had the
ready instinct of a dull man, soon discovered.
Before the day was at an end, he and his niece
had found their respective levels with regard to
one another, and were quite comfortable together.
He was greatly impressed by Jeanne's quiet repose
of manner, by the calmness with which she utterly
declined to be hurried or flustered when the time
came for them to change carriages, and by the
matter-of-course way in which she ordered one of
the railway officials to fetch some water for Turco,
before she would consent to continue her journey.
At the frontier, where, during those troublous

times, it was customary to make a prodigious fuss
over passports, and where he was thrown into a
fever of mingled indignation and ahirm by a
frowning individual who required him to prove
his identity, he finally surrendered all semblance
of authority into the hands of his charge, who
made things smooth Avithout any difficulty at
all.

I can't make head or tail of these foreigners
never could,' he remarked apologetically, as he
sank back, with a sigh of exhaustion, upon the
cushions of the railway carriage. 'You'd better
do the talking, Jane; you know how to manage
'em.'

So from that time forth the command of the
expedition was taken up by Mademoiselle de
Mersac, vice Mr. Ashley, superseded. That same
evening the travellers reached Geneva, and the
next day journeyed on to Bale, and the next to
Cologne, and so northwards. Mr. Ashley, relieved
of the responsibility of searching time-tables,
making calculations in foreign coin, and speaking
tongues only partially known to him, was in high
good humour, and declared several times that he
had never enjoyed a trip more in his life. He
conceived a high estimate of his niece's character

c 2

and abilities ; the only thing that vexed him
about her being the unfortunate accident of her
nationality, which was fatal to a free interchange
of ideas upon the absorbing events of the day.
The papers at that time were full of the proclamations
and manifestoes of the young dictator
of Tours, for Avhose windy utterances Mr. Ashley
nourished a truly noble and British contempt,
which, of course, he was obliged under the circumstances
to suppress as best he could. From
time to time, to be sure, being charged as it were
to bursting point with bottled-up wrath, lie was
fain to break out into the commencement of a
diatribe against ' that fellow Gombetter ; ' but it
must be recorded to his credit that he never failed
to cut short his sentence with a profuse apology,
and an explanation that his disparaging remarks
had no reference to the French people.

Plucky fellows, and good soldiers when they
are well led,' he was kind enough to say. ' Our
old allies in the Crimea, too ; we haven't forgotten
that in England, I assure you.' After which he
would generally fall foul of King William's pious
telegrams, that being a subject upon which he
felt himself at liberty to use as strong language ashe
pleased.

As far as Jeanne was concerned, he might
have spoken for or against her country without
scruple. Her own private anxieties and sorrows
were too much in her mind just then to permit of
her taking any great interest in public affairs ;
still less could she have brought herself to care
what the opinion of this or that individual
Englishman might be upon them. Her one
desire was to reach England, where she hoped
she would find a letter from Leon awaiting her
arrival. The journey was not an enjoyable one
to her, whatever it may have been to her companion,
and she was glad to get to the end of it.

Landing on Dover pier, on a murky November
afternoon, after a long passage through thick
weather from Ostend, Jeanne took her first survey
of her mother's native land, and did not find it
specially attractive to the eye. But she had not
much time to spend in forming impressions, for
Mr. Ashley, who had rushed off to the book-stall
as soon as he had set foot on land, came hurrying
back, loaded w^itli newspapers, and brimming over
with the latest intelligence.

Here's a pretty kettle of fish ! ' he cried, ashe
scrambled into his place. 'Russia's been
tearing up the Treaty of Paris ! I always knew

how it would be. And, oh! Jiere's a bit of good
news for 3-011, Jane. Your people have hacked
the Bavarians somewhere. Like to see the
Telegraph ? They've got a long account of it
all.'

The winter evening closed in. Dover, Ashford,
Tunbridge, were soon left behind. Mr.
Ashley denounced Prince GortschakofF, and declared
his conviction that the Gladstone ministry
was trifling with the honour of the country.
Jeanne was still deep in the details of the battle
of Courtiers — an lUKloubted victory for the
French arms at last — when the train came to a
standstill at Sevenoaks, and her uncle, throwing
open the door, exclaimed :

By Jove ! here we are already ! Jump out,
Jane ; this is our station.'

Jeanne obeyed this invitation by stepping
down in her leisurely, deliberate way on to the
platform. A servant relieved her of her shawls
and umbrellas ; and in a few minutes she found
herself seated by her uncle's side in a mail-phaeton,
being whirled along the muddy lanes at
the full speed of a pair of gigantic horses.

Bless us and save us, how these brutes do
puling ' gasped Mr. Ashley. ' It's enough to drag

a man's arms out of their sockets. How were
they going as you came along, Simpson ? '

'Mean away the ole distance, sir,' answered
the man from behind. ' Couldn't have stopped
'em in the first two miles, not if it had ha' bin
ever so ! Took 'em to Caterham and back, with
the ladies, yesterday too, sir. I never see such
'losses for work ! '

Ah ! ' grunted Mr. Ashley, evidently not ill-pleased.
' TJiey won't run away with me I can
tell them.'

They managed to keep him pretty well occupied
though, and left him little breath, save for
such interjectional remarks as : ' Your Algerian
horses don't run quite to this size, eh, Jane ? ' or
Precious dark night, ain't it ? ' or, ' That's Westerham,'
or, 'That's Boasted,' as the twinkling
lights of some town or hamlet showed through
the gloom.

A short three-quarters of an hour brought
them to a park-gate, which somebody, running
out from the lodge hard by, flung open to admit
them. Presently came another rate, a gravel
sweep, flanked by evergreens, and then Jeanne
made out, as well as the darkness would allow hera
low, irregularly-built, white house.

Welcome to Holmhurst ! ' cried Mr. Ashley,
who had assumed a certain bluff, British heartiness
of manner since he had been once more upon
his native soil. ' Here, catch hold of the reins,
Simpson. Why the dickens don't somebody come
to open the door? Oh ! here's Mrs. Ashley.'

The front door had been thrown open, letting
out a stream of ruddy light into the clinging mist
outside, and through it hurried a tall, grey-haired
lady, who was talking volubly to nobody in particular
as she walked, and who clutched hastily at
her cap, which had somehow fallen on to the
extreme back of her head. Just as she reached
the threshold she dropped her shawl, which she
kicked impatiently away into an adjacent puddle,
whence it was rescued by Simpson, who shook it
and delivered it up to an imperturbable butler.

Well, John,' began this impetuous lady, bestowing
a hasty embrace upon her husband, and
speaking in a hurried monotone, as though it were
absolutely essential that she should crowd as many
words into one sentence as most people do into
five ; ' so here you are back again, safe and sound.
'No return of gout? — no cold? That's right. And
this is Jeanne. How do you do, my dear? — so
delighted to see you — not that I do see you.

Come in and get warm ; you must be frozen. Did
you have a rough passage ? Have you had any
tea? Will you have anything now, or wait till
dinner ? We dine in half an hour — that is, we
ought, only this new cook is so dreadfully unpunctual.
Have you much trouble with your
servants in Algiers? Here they are beyond
everything — no satisfying them, and no getting
them to do their work ! Not you, Jarvis ' (this
to the butler), ' you know I don't mean you.
Come into the library, my dear, and be introduced
to your cousins. Je debris parler francis,
mais ca c'est devenu taut difficile — faute habitude.
Vous m'excuserez — je veux dire, tu
m'excuseras '

Jeanne stemmed this torrent of words by
remarking :

I am quite accustomed to speak English,
madame.'

Yes, to be sure — of course — you speak it
much better than I do French, I have no doubt.
What has become of my shawl ? — never mind !
This is Helen, and this is Blanche.'

Mrs. Ashley, while continuing her remarks,
had led the way into a large, comfortable-looking
room, lined with bookcases, and furnished with an

abundance of cliintz-coverecl sofas and armchairs.
Two fair-haired, blue-eyed girls rose to greet the
new-comer. Jeanne, who had all a Frenchwoman's
admiration for pink and white colouring,
thought them excessively pretty, and noted, with
a certain sense of relief, that they lacked their
mother's conversational powers ; for when one of
them had observed, 'You must be dreadfully
cold ! ' and the other had added, ' How tired you
must be ! ' they seemed to think that they had
said all that the occasion required, and relapsed
into a smiling silence.

Meanwhile, Mrs. Ashley, who lead not allowed
her tongue to rest from the trifling consideration
that nobody was listening to her, was concluding
a long sentence by a name, the sound of which
brought a sudden flash into Jeanne's pale cheeks.

Miss Barrington — Jeanne, let me introduce
you to Miss Barrington, who is anxious to. make
your acquaintance.'

Miss Barrington had been a beauty once upon
a time. She was now a somewhat remarkable-looking
old woman. Her abundant white hair,
her sharp black eyes, her overhanging eyebrows,
and her shrewd, thin face, made up a whole
which formed a striking contrast to the Ashley

family, whose comely countenances could not boast
of one clearly-drawn feature amongst them.

How do you do ? ' said she, holding out her
hand, and laying down the tatting upon which
she had been engaged. ' I have heard all about
you from my nephew. There is a letter for you
somewhere. I thought I would just mention the
fact, because Mrs. Ashley has, of course, forgotten
all about it, and she is just as likely as not to
throw it into the fire, if you don't claim it.'

Oh, no ! ' protested Mrs. Ashley, ' I should
never have done that — I shouldn't, indeed. I
know my memory is treacherous, but I am always
very particular about letters, and really I
can't remember to have bmnit an unopened one
more than once in my life, and that turned out to
be only an invitation to dinner, so that it really
did not signify much, though the people did make
a ridiculous fuss about it. Jeanne's letter is on
her dressing-table, wlierc I put it with my own
hands. Will you come upstairs now, my dear,
and see your room ? '

Jeanne followed her aunt, willingly enough,
upstairs to the prettily-furnished bedroom which
had been prepared for her. A bright fire was
burning cheerfully in the grate, and a maid was

busy unpacking her clothes. On the pincushion,
transfixed by a huge, black-headed pin, was the
wished-for letter, with its familiar French stamps
and its many postmark.

There ! ' cried Mrs. Ashley, pointing triumphantly
to this evidence of her care, ' I pinned
it down myself, so that there should be no risk
of its being swept away. I know you will be
anxious to read it, for I can guess from whom it
comes,' she added meaningly, patting Jeanne on
the shoulder, and turning round to nod and smile
before she bustled out of the room.

So Jeanne, left to herself at last, sank into an
armchair before the pleasant warmth and blaze of
the coal fire (the first she had ever seen, by the
way), and settled herself to enjoy her letter, which
was not from M. de Saint-Luc at all, as worthy
Mrs. Ashley had assumed it to be, but from Leon.

The lad wrote in high spirits. He had joined
his regiment, and had received a lieutenant's commission
forthwith. He might have had his troop
but for native modesty ; for in those days commissions
fluttered about in the air, right and left,
and were often caught by less competent hands
than his. He was full of enthusiasm for the
army, for his comrades ; above all, for his old

friend and Colonel. An action was said to be imminent,
and he was about to be sent to the front
Colliers and victory before him, if he had
known it. That — or another fate — thought his
sister, with a long sigh, as she dropped the
letter. • You are not to be anxious if you
get no news of me for some time,' Leon had
added in a postscript. Just so we can all remember,
when we lead the toothache in our
childish days, being recommended ' not to think
about it.'

Jeanne thought about it till she found that she
had barely left herself time to perform her evening
toilette ; and then, changing her dress with
what expedition she could, swept down the shallow
oak stairs to the library, where Mr. Ashley, erect
upon the hearth rug, with his nose in the air and
his coat-tails gathered up under his arms, was
holding forth to a respectful feminine audience,
much as you may see a Cochin-china cock in the
farmyard crowing mellifluously to the admiration
of his surrounding brood.

Much of a muchness, the whole lot of 'em,'
Jeanne heard him saying ; 'but if you talk of lying,
I must say that fellow Gombetter can give Gorts-
chaff pounds ! '

After Avliich, becoming aware of the presence
of his niece, he fell to poking the fire with a good
deal of needless noise, and remarked that the
weather was really remarkably cold for the time
of year.

Miss Barrington, with more tact, continued the
subject.

If I had to govern a nation,' said she, * I
think I should go in for a course of unscrupulous
veracity, just to see how it would act. Bismarck
is the only public man I know of who habitually
tells the truth, and the consequence is that nobody
can make him out. I remember once, some years
ago, making a resolution to steer clear of fibs in
my own small sphere ; but it didn't do. As far
as I can remember, I only kept it up for about a
fortnight.'

Miss Barrington's remarks were listened to
with that respected deference which, in this
country, can be commanded by wealth alone.
When she had done one of the young ladies exclaimed
:

Oh ! but, Miss Barrington, you never do tell
fibs.'

The old lady's eyes twinkled. ' Don't I, my
dear ? ' returned she. ' How do you know ? Do

you suppose such hardened old sinners as I are
easily detected ? Helen Ashley is my god-daughter,'
she continued explanatorily, addressing herself
to Jeanne ; ' that is why she takes such a
favourable view of my character.'

And Jeanne noticed, with some surprise, that
at this apparently innocent speech her uncle bit
his nails and frowned, and Mrs. Ashley wriggled
uneasily upon her chair, while a fine rich pink
overspread the cheeks, forehead, and ears of the
fair Helen.

The announcement of dinner put an end to
a rather uncomfortable period of silence. Mr.
Ashley gave his arm to Miss Barrington, and the
rest of the party trooped out of the room after
him.

Jeanne, scanning the spacious dining-room
with the eager eyes of an explorer in unknown
lands, received a favourable impression of English
luxury. She had read, in I know not what book
of ' Notes upon Great Britain,' that the saturnine
nature of the inhabitants of these islands is nowhere
more vividly exemplified than in the aspect
of that particular room in which their happiest
moments are supposed to be passed. The writer,
whose ideas may possibly have been formed in

that gloomy part of London to which, for some
inscrutable reason, foreigners chiefly resort, had
drawn a graphic picture of a funereal apartment,
furnished with a long table, a dozen or more
horsehair chairs, a mahogany sideboard, a sarcophagus
to keep the decanters in, a portrait in
oil of the master of the house, and a print representing
the coronation of Queen Victoria. ' There,'
he had concluded, ' you have the scene of those
social banquets so dear to Englishmen. Admit
that a man must drink a great deal of port wine
before he can feel gay amidst such surroundings.'
The dining-room at Holmhurst by no means
answered to this description. It was such a room
as may be seen in scores of country houses of the
less pretentious order — a room neither venerable
in the way of old oak panelling, antlers, family
portraits, and high-backed chairs, nor pseudo-venerable
in one of the abominable theatrical
styles affected by modern upholsterers, and dubbed
Early English,' ' Elizabethan,' ' Jacobean,' or whatnot
— yet with a certain attractiveness of its own.
The Turkey carpet, a little worn and faded in
places ; the plain, solid furniture, dating apparently
from the commencement of the present
century, and likely to see the end of it ; the fire

that blazed in the ample grate, the fine damask
tablecloth, the glittering silver, and the mellow,
shaded Hight of the tall lamps — all these details of
the picture which met Jeanne's eye made up a
sufficiently pleasant whole ; and each and all of
them seemed to wear a smile of quiet, conscious
self-respect and prosperity, not unlike that which
commonly illumined the features of their master
about the dinner-hour.

The repast itself, to be sure, did not prove
quite up to the Campagne de Mersac standard —
being, indeed, of the kind usually set before her
employers, in this favoured land, by a good plain
cook with a kitchen-maid under her ; but such as
the food was, there was plenty of it ; and the
wine — if that had been a point within Jeanne's
powers of criticism — was excellent. A portly
butler, assisted by a hobbledehoy in livery, handed
the plates, and doled out half-glasses of sherry
from time to time. Miss Barrington had a special
claret-jug at her elbow, and helped herself.

Mr. Ashley swallowed his soup, making a good
deal of noise over it, and related the chief incidents
of his journey, dwelling with some bitterness
upon the senseless suspicion with which he
had been met at the frontier.

VOL. III. D

'As if any fool couldn't see that I was an
Englishman ! ' cried the worthy gentleman, reasonably
enough. ' I believe, upon my conscience,
they'd have clapped me into jail if Jane, there,
hadn't come to the rescue and made it all right,'
he added, nodding in a friendly manner at his
niece.

If people would only take the trouble to learn
modern languages when they were young,' remarked
Mrs. Ashley, addressing herself, as usual,
to space ; ' but, of course, in our time one's education
was neglected as far as that sort of thing
went. Nowadays it is different. We girls did
learn French, German, and Italian ; and the same
master, I remember, taught us all three ; but boys,
of course — modern languages being an extra, and
in play-hours and all — you couldn't expect it,
could you ? unless they had a special turn that
way, as some have. Our eldest boy. Jack, took
up German for his examination at the Staff College
at Sandhurst the other day, and got I don't
know how many marks — such a good thing ! Not
that it is likely to be of much use to him, as far
as I can see ; and being such a long time away
from his regiment and his brother officers, has
been very tiresome for him ; and then there was

all the hard work, and a good deal of expense in
one way and another — still, of course, one is glad
to think he has passed.'

No one ever dreamt of paying any attention to
Mrs. Ashley's interminable semi-soliloquies. Her
daughters talked through them without scruple,
neither meaning offence nor giving any. By way
of entertaining their guest, they confined their
remarks entirely to the subject of Algeria, about
which country they asked one well-meant, silly
question after another, while Jeanne, bored but
patient, answered to the best of her ability ; and
Mr. Ashley and Miss Barrington talked politics ;
and the dinner progressed through its prescribed
courses.

When it was all over, the ladies betook themselves
to the drawing-room, where the younger of
the two sisters seated herself at the piano, while
the elder warbled English ballads in a thin, faint
voice, starting a trifle flat, and consistently remaining
so up to the last note of her performance.
]airs. Ashley took up the Queen and read occasional
inaudible extracts from that voluminous
journal, and Miss Barrington returned to her tatting.
After what Jeanne had heard before dinner
it would, perhaps, have evinced something more

D 2

than mortal powers of self-control if she had abstained
from seating herself beside the latter lady.

You said Mr. Barrington was your nephew,
did you not ? ' she asked, proceeding straight to
the point with her usual directness.

Yes. What did you think of him ? '

Miss Barrington had a gruff voice/like a man's,
and had cultivated a natural abruptness of manner,
having found that the quickest and surest
means of coming to an understanding with her
fellow-creatures.

Jeanne thought the question rather in bad
taste, and did not much like the tone in which it
was delivered. She replied, however, without
embarrassment, that she had founder. Barrington
very amiable.

Amiable ! ' echoed the old lady. ' What a
very odd description of him ! But I suppose you
use the word in its French sense, 'aim able — loveable
— eh ? A good many people have found him
that, by all accounts. Indeed, I am very fond of
him myself, though he is a selfish rascal at heart,
as most men are. He showed me a picture he
had done of you ; it was not flattered.'

Jeanne laughed. ' Is he — at home now ? ' she
asked, after a short pause.

No answered the old lady, looking up from
her tatting, ' he is not ; he is away paying visits
in different parts of the country.'

Miss Barrington's keen black eyes had found
out many a secret in their time by mere force of
tacit interrogation ; but they failed to extract any
information from the beautiful, pale face upon
which they were now fastened.

I am sorry for that,' observed Jeanne, calmly.
Mr. Barrington was a great deal at our house
while he was in Algiers, and I should have liked
to have met him again.'

Was she sorry? She was saying to herself
that she was glad — that she was intensely relieved.
And yet there was a dull sort of pain about her
heart, suspiciously like disappointment.

He will return home before Christmas, I have
no doubt, and then you will be able to renew
your acquaintance with him,' said Miss Barrington,
drily, and with that she changed the subject.

After a time Mr. Ashley came in from the
dining-room, rubbing his eyes and yawning. The
clock on the mantelpiece struck ten, and one of
the girls rang the bell. Suddenly Mrs. Ashley
scrambled up from her low chair, made a futile
grab at her cap, which had fallen on to the back

of her head again, and hurried across the room to
Jeanne.

Nous allons faire la priere,' said she. ' Si
vous avez des scrupules '

The servants came in, in a long line, while she
was speaking. Mr. Ashley was turning over the
leaves of a large, gilt-edged Bible, and adjusting
his spectacles. For a moment Jeanne was seized
with that queer, bewildering sensation — to which
no one is a stranger — of having been in the same
place, and under precisely similar circumstances,
before. Then she remembered the description
Leon had given of life at Holmhurst upon his
return to Algiers, and how he had claimed to
have earned the good opinion of his relations by
his repudiation of bigotry With that reminiscence
before her, she hastened to reassure her aunt, and
the ceremony proceeded.

It is to be feared, however, that Jeanne's heart
was not in her devotions that evening, and that
she might just as well have retired for any good
she got from them ; for while Mr. Ashley was
offering up a somewhat hasty, but comprehensive
supplication for the welfare of all mankind, one,
at least, of those who should have been supporting
him in his modest demands was many miles away

in the cool dining-room of the Campagne de Mer-sac.
The sun was streaming through the open
windows ; the wind was scattering the almond
blossoms outside ; the shrill voices of Madame
de Breuil's visitors rose and fell in the adjoining
salon; a handsome, bright-eyed lad was sitting
on a corner of the table swinging his long legs,
chatting about England and Paris, and waxing
enthusiastic in his praise of a certain Englishman
named Barrington whom he had brought to Africa
with him. All this took place long, long ago —
eight months or so, in point of fact — and many
people and many things had had time to die since
then, hope and joy among the rest. 'If only I
were dead too!' sighed poor Jeanne, upon her
knees.

Amen,' says Mr. Ashley briskly, shutting up
Ms book. And so one more day is at an end,
and everybody may go to bed ; and those who
can't sleep must bear their own burden, and hope
to be a little more tired tomorrow night.

CHAPTEE XXIX.

IN WHICH JEANNE TAKES A WALK.

Mr. Ashley, who was a thoroughgoing Conservative
in practice as well as in principle, clung to
the observance of many old customs in his household
from no other motive than an inherent dislike
of change. It was by his orders that the
great bell at the top of the house was rung, for
some two or three minutes, every morning as the
clock struck eight, rousing the slumbering echoes,
setting the dogs in the tableland barking, and
causing visitors to begin the day with bad words.
In Mr. Ashley's father's time, or in his grandfather's,
this untimely clamour had probably had
its justification as a summons to the first meal of
the day ; it survived now, without any justification
at all, much as the curfew still continues to
toll the knell of parting day in certain remote
villages.

The dull, grey light was just stealing through

Jeanne's window-curtains, on the morning after
her arrival at Holmhurst, when she was startled
by this prolonged din ; but as it was clearly out
of the question that she could now be in time to
present herself at any rite or meeting which it
might herald, she wisely turned round and fell
asleep again, having, indeed, had but a small part
of her fair share of rest during the night. About
an hour later she was again aroused by that peculiarly
irritating rat-a-tat-tat at her door of which
the knuckles of English servants possess the secret,
and a maid came in with a bath and cans of water,
and Mrs. Ashley's love, and would she please
'ave her breakfast in her room or downstairs ?

Having received this young person's assurances
that there was no 'hurry, Jeanne answered that she
would go downstairs as soon as she was dressed,
and succeeded eventually in reaching the diningroom
just as Miss Barrington was leaving it.

Good morning,' said that lady. ' You ain't
very early people in your part of the world, I see.'

'I am very sorry. Have I kept them waiting
? ' asked Jeanne, apprehensively.

Dear me, no ! Punctuality is the soul of
business ; but if you haven't any business to do,
what's the use of being punctually The only

reason why I stay in this house is that I can do
exactly as I like in it. They don't keep things
hot for you though, and therefore I make a point
of being in the dining-room at half-past nine.'

Mrs. Ashley rose from behind her urn and
teacups to extend a hand holding a large piece
of buttered toast to her niece. Becoming aware,
by a slight hesitation on Jeanne's part, of this
obstacle in the way of a friendly greeting, she
hastily got rid of it by thrusting it into the open
mouth of Turco, who stood gravely beside her,
and who promptly deposited it on the carpet,
being unused to such cavalier manners.

Eat it up, there's a dear dog ! ' said Mrs.
Ashley, soothingly. ' What a splendid fellow he
is ! So glad to have him here ; we are all devoted
to dogs. I hope you slept well, my dear.
We didn't wait, you see — we never do ; I find it
is the only plan. Tea or coffee ? Your uncle
has gone out hunting ; he started hours ago.
They meet beyond Westerham to-day — or was it
Tunbridge ? I often say to him that he is
getting too old to rush all over the county to
these far meets, only it makes him angry to be
told so ; but really, you know, to have a twenty,
mile ride home, after it is all over, is too much ;

and the result of it is that he comes in tired out,
and falls asleep after dinner, which is so bad.
What shall we do to amuse you to-day? You
will find us very humdrum people, I'm afraid;
but at all events our life will be a change from
what you have been accustomed to, and that is
always something. Helen, my dear, you must
look after your cousin. What are you going todo
this morning ? '

Blanche and I were going down to the village
to buy some things,' answered the elder of
the two girls; 'but that is of no consequence.
Unfortunately,' she continued, turning to Jeanne,
with a little apologetic laugh, ' there is nothing
interesting to be seen in our neighbourhood — no
cathedrals, or show places, or anything of that
kind. When strangers come to stay with us, we
generally drive them up to the common to look
at the view, only at this time of year there hardly
ever is any view, because of the fog. Still, if you
would care about going there on the chance '

'I would rather walk to the village with you,'
said Jeanne. ' Is that the village, beyond those
trees?'

' Oh, no,' answered Helen ; ' that is the keeper's
Cottage at Broadridge, where Mr. Barrington lives.

You knew Mr. Barrington in Algiers, didn't
you?'

Isn't he nice ? Isn't he amusing ? Didn't
you Hke him very much ? ' chimed in Blanche, the
younger sister, who was a trifle given to enthusiasm.


Jeanne said she had thought Mr. Barrington
charming, and returned to her breakfast, not feeling
inclined to pursue the subject further at that
moment.

She recurred to it, however, of her own accord
an hour later, when she and her cousins were
walking briskly across the park, escorted by some
half-dozen dogs of all sizes.

Mr. Barrington is your nearest neighbour ; I
suppose you see him very often ? ' she remarked
interrogatively.

Some of us do, don't we, Helen ? ' said
Blanche.

At which her sister smiled demurely, and retorted,
' How silly you are, Blanche ! '

Why silly ? ' Jeanne inquired, looking down
from her superior height, at the fresh coloured
young woman at her side, with perhaps the
faintest tinge of unconscious disdain in her eyes.

The dimples in Miss Ashley's cheeks became

more perceptible. She was a rather preitj girl

sufficiently so to be considered a beauty by her
brothers and sisters, who, like the members of
many other large families, had, from their youth
up, formed a sort of mutual-admiration league.
Blanche is always teasing me about Mr. Barring
ton,' she explained. ' It is all nonsense, and I
wish she would not do it, because it sets people
talking, and you have no idea what a gossiping
neighbourhood this is. We are great friends —
nothing more. I think it is very hard that one
mayn't have a friend without everybody making
disagreeable remarks about it, don't you ? '

To judge by her face, she did not feel the
hardship very keenly ; and possibly that may have
been why Jeanne did not judge it necessary to
respond to her appeal for sympathy.

After all, Helen,' said Blanche, picking up a
ir-cone, and throwing it for the dogs to scamper
after, ' it is not very odd that people should notice
your friendships, because, you know, your friends
always do propose to you, sooner or later.'

Nonsense, my dear child,' replied the elder
sister, speaking in that patronising tone which is the
prerogative of superior age and experience ; ' Mr.
Barrington has never done anything of the kind.*

Oh, I know that,' cried the other innocently.

Of course, if he had ' She broke off with

an embarrassed laugh, and resumed hurriedly,
'I wish he would, and that you would accept
him. It would be such fun to have him for a
brother-in-law.'

Blanche,' said Helen, with some severity,
you allow your tongue to run away with you. I
don't know what Jeanne will think of us.'

The second Miss Ashley resembled the elder
as a bad photograph resembles its original. She
had the same colouring, only less brilliant ; the
same features, but less refined ; her hands were
redder and her feet larger than her sister's. Providence
seemed to have destined her to play the
part of second fiddle, which part, for that matter,
she accepted cheerfully enough. She had as yet
had no proposals, and no ' friends,' in her acceptation
of the term, nor did she expect any so long
as the beauty of the family should remain unmarried.
Her humble estimate of her own merits
had hitherto been entirely concurred in by others ;
and Jeanne, who, during the above brief dialogue,
had made up her mind that she liked her younger
cousin the best of the two, was probably the very

first person who had arrived at such a conclusion.
But Jeanne was perhaps hardly a fair judge, being
susceptible of the passion of jealousy in common
with poor humanity at large.

Such faint predisposition as she may have had
in Miss Ashley's favour was certainly not increased
by the latter 's next remarks. ' I hope you understand,
Jeanne, that Blanche is only talking nonsense.
Mr. Barrington is really nothing but a
very old friend of mine, and we all like him very
much. Everybody does, I think. Did not you,
when you knew him in Algiers ? But perhaps
you were too much taken up with somebody else
to pay much attention to him. Do tell me what
M. de Saint-Luc is like ; I want so much to hear
all about him. Is he young and good-looking ?
And is he tall or short ? — dark or fair ? You don't
mind my asking, do you ? '

Jeanne did mind very much, but could hardly
say so in so many words. The tone of her reply,
however, showed unequivocally enough that the
subject was not one upon which she was inclined
to be communicative.

M. de Saint-Luc is tall and dark. I beheld
he is considered handsome. I have not asked

his age, but he is not a very young man she answered.
' Do you have a great deal of rain herein
winter ? '

The Miss Ashleyss, upon comparing notes later
in the day, agreed that their French cousin was
extremely reserved, and not over and above
friendly.

Broadridge is a tiny, old-fashioned village,
which has preserved much of the picturesqueness
of a by-gone day, chiefly by reason of the aesthetic
proclivities of the lord of the manor, to whom the
desolating inroads of modern sanitary reform have
ever been as a red rag to a bull. Drainage is all
very well, he says ; and he has nothing to urge
against cleanliness, except that he does not believe
in the possibility of enforcing it ; but he protests
against the removal of thatched roofs and diamond-paned
windows ; and any cottager who takes it
into his head to tear down creepers, upon the
plea that his dwelling needs more light, may
count upon being entered in Mr. Barrington's
black books. Externally, therefore, the village
leaves little to be desired. Jeanne was enchanted
with it.

What a lovely little place ! ' she exclaimed.
The labourers in England cannot be so badly off

as people pretend, if they all have such homes as
these to live in.'

Yes, it is rather pretty, in a way,' acquiesced
Helen, dubiously ; ' but it is a dull, sleepy little
hole. There is only one shop in it, and they keep
nothing there except string and tallow-candles
and brandy-balls, and things of that kind, which
nobody can want. We can't get so much as a bit
of ribbon or a hair-pin nearer than Westerham ;
it is very inconvenient.'

But it would be much worse to have a common,
ugly town at your gates,' said Jeanne.

That is what Mr. Barrington always tells us,'
remarked Blanche. Whereupon Jeanne began to
speak of something else. She might have spared
herself the trouble ; for as for excluding Barrington's
name from the conversation, it would have
been as easy to exclude one of the parts of speech.
His sayings and doings, his feats, his fancies and
his jokes, formed themes for perpetual comment
and admiration — not upon this occasion only, but
every day and all day ; and Mr. and Mrs. Ashley
were not less prone to expatiate upon them than
their daughters. No sooner did one member of
the family desist from singing the praises of this
fortunate gentleman, than another was sure to

VOL. Ill E

take up the strain, insomuch that even Jeanne
used occasionally to wish that they would discuss
somebody else for a little. Not, indeed, that she
was weary of the subject itself, but that there was
a certain sense of proprietorship in their treatment
of it which annoyed her, though she hardly knew
why. Miss Barrington, devoted though she was
to her nephew, used to say that, after spending a
week at Holmhurst, she could have borne with
equanimity, not to say pleasure, to see Harry
ducked in the village horsepond.

You, who know my nephew, must be rather
amused at the way in which he is spoken of
here,' she remarked, one day, to Jeanne. ' I often
wonder what sort of monster a man such as they
describe would be. Three grains of Marcus
Aurelius to three of Shakspeare, six of Solomon,
and two of the infant Samuel, with a dash of Joe
Miller, by way of flavouring. The whole to be
well shaken, and swallowed with closed eyes.
What a nauseous draught ! Unprejudiced people,
like yourself, for instance, are aware that the
poor man has done nothing to be so travestied,
but is in reality a very pleasant sort of fellow, with
considerably more of the goose than of the swan
in his composition.'

Jeanne answered, not very truthfully, that she
had hardly known Mr. Barrington well enough to
have been able to form a judgment of his character,
but that no doubt he had as many faults as other
people. She would have given a good deal to
have been able to question Miss Barrington as to
the real state of his relations with Helen Ashley,
but pride kept her silent, and the old lady did not
volunteer any information.

When Jeanne had been long enough at
Holmhurst to have become accustomed to its
daily ways, and had so far taken her place as part
and parcel of the establishment that she was
allowed to employ her time much as she liked,
that her aunt and cousins no longer thought it
necessary to provide amusement for her, and that
Mr. Ashley had given up opening the door for
her when she left the room — when, I say, our
heroine had been about a week under her uncle's
roof, it occurred to her, one misty, chilly afternoon,
that she would like to walk across the park,
and take a look at Mr. Barrington's home. There
was nothing to prevent her from gratifying her
curiosity, for only a park paling divided the
modest Holmhurst property from its more pretentious
neighbour, and this paling was crossed,

b2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

at a point that Jeanne knew of, by a stile, beyond
which a faintly-marked footpath stretched away,
across the undulating expanse, till it lost itself ina
belt of trees. The girls had more than once
offered to walk with Jeanne along this path,
which, they said, led past the windows of Broad-ridge
Court, and over which, as being a short cut
to many places, they and their friends enjoyed,
by courtesy, a right of way ; but she had hitherto
excused herself from any such expedition, having
a foolish repugnance to making her first acquaintance
with the place in Helen's company. Now,
however, all the other inmates of the house had
gone out on different errands, and the occasion
appeared favourable to her for a long ramble,
with no other society than that of the faithful
Turco and of her own thoughts.

It was one of those still, grey days of early
winter, the peculiar property of our climate,
which to some people are unspeakably depressing,
but move others with a certain charm of peaceful
melancholy. In the morning a heavy mist had
hung over all the country ; but this had partially
cleared off now, leaving only drops of moisture
upon every blade of grass and bare twig. The
outline of the chalk hills in the distance was

blurred and faint ; but here and there, upon the
ploughed fields and pasture lands which trended
upwards towards them, fell a gleam of pale light,
testifying that somewhere, far above layers upon
layers of woolly clouds, the sun was shining.
The last yellow leaves of the year were dropping
from the oaks and elms, and came fluttering
to the ground, one by one, as Jeanne passed on
her way beneath the branches. The heavy, humid
air was motionless and silent — so silent that
Jeanne, as she walked, could hear distinctly the
tramp, tramp of a man's footsteps on the further
side of the paling. She paused for an instant, as
the sound became louder and nearer, and half-thought
of turning back, for she did not wish to
meet anyone ; but remembering that, whoever the
pedestrian might be, he could hardly be of her
acquaintance, she resumed her march, and was
within a couple of yards of the stile at the
moment when Barrington, reaching it from the
other side, dropped his arms upon its topmost
rail, and so stood face to face with her.

For once, it was Jeanne who was the less
self-possessed of the two. A low involuntary cry
escaped her, and she felt herself trembling from
head to foot.

Barrington started and flushed a little, but recovered
himself instantly. He took off his hat,
smiled, and said, ' How do you do ? ' in such an
easy, matter-of-course tone that a far less proud
person than Mademoiselle de Mersac must have
been stung into emulating his sang-froid.

She drew nearer to him at once, held out her
hand, and answered. ' How do you do ? You
startled me by appearing so suddenly. You are
the last person in the world whom I should have
expected to meet.'

Well, I live here, you know,' observed Barrington.


Yes, but I thought you were away.'

I came back last night,' he said.

'Oh.'

A long pause. The situation was becoming a
trifle ludicrous. Jeanne, who habitually looked at
things in their truer and more serious aspect, and
was, in a manner, above noticing small absurdities,
was conscious only of the tumult of mingled love
and joy and pain and bitter humiliation, which
was swelling within her, and of the necessity for
keeping any of these emotions from showing itself
in her face ; but Barrington, though he, on his side,
was experiencing much the same sensations in a

somewhat less degree, and had never in his life
felt more indisposed towards real mirth, was yet
alive to the comic element which lurks in almost
every conceivable human position, and, upon
the faintest provocation, would have burst out
laughing.

Happily, he was preserved from thus disgracing
himself. Jeanne broke the silence at last, and
spoke with so successful an assumption of calm
friendliness that she drove a pin into his self-love ;
and in pangs of that description Mr. Barrington
had never, from his childhood, been able to see
anything laughable.

I am very glad to meet you again,' said she.
I was afraid that perhaps you would not return
before I had gone away. Have you been quite
well since you left Algiers ? '

I have been tolerably well, thank you,*
answered Barrington, making the admission with
some reluctance. In truth, he was the picture of
health, as he always was.

You were going to walk through the park ? '
he resumed presently. ' Perhaps you will allow
me to act as guide to you.'

Jeanne would have liked to say that she had
walked far enough, and must return home; but

fearing the construction that he might place upon
such a speech, answered simply, ' Thank you, if
you will be so kind ; ' and, stepping over the stile,
allowed her finger-tips to rest for a moment upon
the hand which Barrington held out to help her
across.

They paced silently side by side for a few
minutes over the fallen leaves. Then Barrington
remarked, ' It is so strange to see you in
England ! '

You did not seem much surprised to see me
said Jeanne.

No, because I knew you were here.*

'Did you? Ah, through Miss Barrington, I
suppose. I don't think she expected you home
quite so soon as this.'

I did not myself expect to be home before
Christmas, if then. I was staying with some
people in 'the Midlands when I got my aunt's
letter, and the next day I made a start southwards.'


The inference was obvious, but Jeanne ignored
it; indeed, she could scarcely have done otherwise.

I am not at all disappointed in England,' she
observed, just by way of steering the conversation
into a less difficult channel.

Are you not ? And yet most people would
tell you that you could hardly have chosen a
worse time of year for seeing the country. For
my own part, I rather like the fall of the leaf.
There is a subdued softness of colouring about
our rainy landscapes at this season which you
don't meet with anywhere else ; and sometimes
one gets some wonderful cloud effects towards
sunset. Besides, when one always feels sad oneself
there is a sort of pleasure in seeing Nature
sad too.'

Barrington sighed as he spoke, and looked
dismal enough. Jeanne, glancing at him fora
moment, believed, with a pang that was not
altogether painful, that the man was really unhappy.
As, indeed, why should she not, seeing
that, at the time, he sincerely believed it himself.
It is not given to everyone — perhaps, if the truth
were known, it is given only to a very few — to
realise what love and hate, joy and sorrow, are.
Men, like Barrington, who are in the habit of
analysing their emotions, and dwelling upon them
with a certain satisfaction, usually feel less deeply
than their neighbours, though, of course, they
would be the last to acknowledge it. He thought
he loved Jeanne de Mersac as dearly as ever man

Lad loved woman since the world began ; lie did,
in fact, love her with all the warmth of which his
nature was capable, and it was not his fault if he
could do no more.

I am sorry that you feel sad,' said Jeanne,
hurriedly. Then, fearing to continue the subject,
she added, almost in the same breath, 'I have
never seen your house yet. Is that it, beyond the
trees ? '

Yes, that's the house,' answered Barrington.
You will see it better presently. It isn't much
to look at now-a-days. Once upon a time — three
centuries ago, or thereabouts — it must have been
a fine place; but it has had many owners, and
a deal of rough treatment ; and now nobody
would imagine, from the appearance of it, that it
dates from the reign of Queen Elizabeth. First
one wing of it was burnt down, and never rebuilt
that was in the beginning of the last century.
Then the Barrington of those days — being, I
should imagine, under the influence of drink — -
took it into his head to knock out all the old
motioned windows, and replace them by the
hideous oblong apertures that you see. His
successor, not wishing to be outdone in originality,
added a Greek portico with six massive stuccoed

pillars to the building. That you do not see,
because I have made so bold as to remove it.
I am not sure whether my grandfather made
matters better or worse by throwing out those
two bays. They must have looked frightful at
first, but now that the colour of the brick has
toned down and that the creepers have covered
them, they are not altogether objectionable ; and,
of course, so far as the interior is concerned, they
are an improvement.'

^I think it is a beautiful old house,' said
Jeanne. And so, indeed, thought most people,
Barrington among the rest. He affected, however,
to have but a poor opinion of it, as being his own.

Old it is — at least, rather old,' he said ; 'but
it is hardly to be called beautiful. I am fond
of it myself, but that has nothing to do with its
intrinsic merits. Even looked at from without,
there is not much to be said for it ; and when
you have inspected the inside, as I hope you will
do some day, you will agree with me that it is
too hideous for anything. Do you remember my
telling you about it, one day, in Algiers ? '

Yes,' said Jeanne, ' I remember.'

How I wish those days could come back T
sighed Barrington. ' I little thought then ' ;

He broke off to give Jeanne the opportunity
of inquiring what it was that had been so far
from his thoughts ; but as she did not see fit to
gratify him in this way he was fain to resume :

It is just as well that one can never in the
least guess what the future is likely to be. If I
had known then under what circumstances I was
to meet you in England, I should certainly never
have wished for the opportunity of showing you
my poor house.'

Nor should I have wished to see it,' said
Jeanne.

You did wish to see it, then, at the time ? '

I thought I should like it ; but I was not
so anxious for the pleasure that I should have
desired it if I had known that I should only come
to England because of our dear Madame de
Breuil's death and of this miserable war.'

Oh, the war ; I wasn't thinking of the war,'
said Barrington, rather chap fallen.

'No?'

No, I was thinking of — well, you know, I
told you plainly in my letter what my feeling was
about your engagement.'

'What do you call roses premiere in English?'
asked Jeanne, pausing before a fine specimen of

that flower, for they had now passed through a
wicket-gate, and were in the old-fashioned garden
which surrounds Broadridge Court.

I'm sure I don't know — that is, of course, I
do know — hollyhocks. And I apologise for
having ventured to speak as if I were one of
your friends,* answered Barrington, with his nose
very much in the air.

You said once that you wished me to consider
you as my friend, and I have always done
so,* returned Jeanne, gravely ; ' but there are
many things that it is best not to talk of, even
to one's friends.'

If friendship means anything at all,' said
Barrington, decidedly, and a little sulkily, ' it
means confidence.'

And what,' inquired Jeanne, ' do you wish
me to confide to you ? '

This query impHed rather more than Barrington
was prepared to reveal upon the spm- of the
moment. He assumed a less injured air, however,
and answered :

Well, for one thing, I wish to know when
you are to be married ? '

There is no date fixed,' replied Jeanne, with
perfect composure. ' How could there be, when

everything is so uncertain? But I suppose my
marriage will take place soon after peace is signed,
if it ever '

If it ever what ? '

I was going to say, if it ever takes place at
all. You must understand that, in these times, it
is not possible to feel quite sure about anything.'

Would you feel happier if you were sure ? '
asked Barrington, wheeling suddenly round, and
looking her full in the face.

A natural shade of resentment, called forth by
this unwarrantable persecution, enabled Jeanne to
respond with the greater appearance of indifference.


If I were not satisfied,' said she, ' I should
scarcely be inclined to talk about it. Unless you
have some more questions to ask, I will say goodbye
now, for it is getting late.'

Won't you come into the house ? ' asked
Barrington, imploringly.

Some other time, if you will allow me. It
is too late now.'

I have not offended you, have I ? '

Not in the least. I am not easily offended.
But I do not like being out after dark, and it is
so cold and damp this evening. Good-bye.*

Good-bye,' said Barrington, taking off his
hat, and holding the gate open for her.

He did not offer to escort her across the park,
but stood looking after her receding figure till it
was lost in the gathering gloom. Then he went
straight into the house and into his luxurious
study, where a gentleman in a brown velveteen
coat and muddy gaiters was dozing before the
fire.

Leigh, old man,' said he, ' it is all over with
me. I have seen her again.'

Oh, have you ? '

I have ; and, what's more, I mean to marry
her.'

Oh, you do ? '

'Yes, I do.'

And what about t'other girl ? '

You have a disgustingly vulgar way of putting
things, Leigh. I have never proposed to
t'other girl," as you call her, and I never shall.'

I wish to goodness,' said Mr. Leigh, getting
up and stretching himself, ' that you would propose
to them both, and that they would both
refuse you. It would do you all the good in the
world,'

CHAPTEE XXX.

JEANNE GAINS A NEW FRIEND.

Mr. Ashley, returning home late from hunting,
found a note awaiting him, which he carried down
with him to the Library, before dinner, and held
in his hand as he stood in his favourite attitude
upon the hearthrug.

Here's a bit of news for you all,' said he,
tapping the open sheet with his blunt forefinger ;
Barrington's back.'

Each member of his small audience, except
Jeanne, promptly responded, ' Oh ! ' The latter,
in the course of her recent studies of the English
language, as spoken in the land of its origin, had
already had occasion to notice the important part
played by this compendious monosyllable in our
conversation, and the infinity of meanings which,
by variety of inflection, it can be made to bear.

Came back last night, he tells me,' Mr.
Ashley went on ; ' and he says, if we'll have him.

he should like to come up and dine tomorrow
night, so as to have a talk with me about those
dogs, you know. Of course we shall be very-pleased
to see him, and I've written to tell him to
bring a friend he has staying with him too. Only,
you know,' continued the practical Mr. Ashley,
it isn't much use his coming up to look at the
pups at that time of night. Odd that he should
have chosen such an hour.'

Very,' said Miss Barrington, drily.

Helen looked conscious, Blanche laughed, and
a gradual smile dawned upon Mr. Ashley's lips,
and spread itself over his bucolic features. These
good people thought they knew pretty well what
had induced Mr. Barrington to offer himself as
their guest ; and Jeanne, perceiving their thoughts,
felt a sudden, sharp pang, of which she was so
ashamed that she hastened to stifle it under a
forced access of high spirits. She talked a great
deal more than usual throughout the evening, and
made a point of laughing heartily at her uncle's
ponderous jokes, insomuch that Miss Barrington,
for one, immediately detected the spurious nature
of her gaiety, and began to wonder what it might
be intended to conceal.

In truth, Jeanne, reserved and self-possessed
VOL, III. F

though she was, was no great adept in the art of
concealment. It had never been her habit to
practise small social hypocrisies, and probably no
amount of training w^oiild ever have made her
into anything but a deplorable actress. But if
simulated emotion were not one of her strong
points, she had, by way of counterpoise, a fine
supply of natural composure wherewith to clothe
that which she really felt ; and of this fact Mr.
Barrington was somewhat painfully reminded
when he made his entrance, on the following
evening, at the dinner-hour.

He had driven his old friend and schoolfellow,
Leigh, over from Broadridge in a dog-cart, and
had beguiled the way by descanting upon the
awkwardness and difficulty of his position — he
being, as he alleged, desperately in love with one
of the ladies whom he was about to meet, while
he more than hinted that another was no less
desperately enamoured of himself. He had even
gone so far as to express some contrition for his
past conduct towards the latter, and to blame
himself for having excited hopes which could
now never be realised.

I really am a most unfortunate beggar,' he
had sighed. ' I suppose it is my confounded impressiveness

that is always getting me into trouble.
How I am to escape from this house to-night
without putting my foot into it somehow is more
than I can imagine.'

Whereupon Mr. Leigh had replied by pertinently
inquiring why the deuce he was going
there then.

And now, behold, not only did Mademoiselle
de Mersac, after a few words of friendly, unembarrassed
greeting, turn away to listen to Mrs.
Ashley's rambling account of the village clothing-club,
but even Helen, being moved by some
impulse of coquetry or curiosity, must needs
devote her small conversational powers to the
entertainment of the stranger ; so that the irresistible
Barrington had to fall back, with as crowd
a grace as might be, upon his aunt Susan.

That lady made things pleasant for him by
asking what had brought him home a good three
weeks before his time ; and getting no satisfactory
answer to this question, went on to remark, in a
loud and resolute voice, that it wasn't the slightest
use trying to hoodwink hei and that when people
were so very mysterious about their movements
one might be tolerably sure, as a general thing,
that they had something to be ashamed of.

F 2

I have always a great deal to be ashamed of
Barrington answered. To which his aunt rejoined
tartly, ' So I should think.'

Barrington, who did not consider himself rich
enough to be able to view with indifference the
opinions of a well-dowered maiden aunt, felt that
he was not beginning the evening happily.

Nor were the Fates any kinder to him at the
dinner-table. It was in the natural course of
things that he should be placed next to his
hostess ; but what he had not bargained for was
that Helen should occupy the seat upon his other
hand, and that Jeanne, upon the opposite side of
the table, should be monopolised by Mr. Leigh,
with whom — to use that favoured gentleman's
own phrase — she ' got on like a house on fire.'

Mr. Leigh was a good-natured, well-to-do
bachelor, living, for the most part, in clubs and
among men, yet not insensible to the charms of
female loveliness when chance threw such blessings
in his path ; a man with a large acquaintance
and many friends, with good looks, good
health, a fair amount of information, and a sufficiency
of small talk. He amused Jeanne, and
took some pains to achieve this result, for he had
been much struck by the attractiveness of her

person and carriage. Barrington was not jealous
of his friend. He knew that Leigh was not a
marrying man, and was, besides, too self-satisfied
or, as he would have put it, too philosophical
to give way easily to such a weakness. At the
same time he had not come to Holmhurst that
evening to introduce Jeanne to a new acquaintance;
and so it fell out that he gave some offence
to his right-hand neighbour by an unusual taciturnity
and absence of mind. As for Mrs. Ashley,
who sat on his left, she was not accustomed to
being either answered or listened to, and did not,
therefore, notice anything strange in the manner
of her prospective son-in-law.

But of course in due time Barrington got the
opportunity he desired. Later in the evening,
after the ladies had withdrawn, he slipped away
from the dining table, over which Mr. Ashley
and Leigh, assisted by memory and imagination,
were complacently hunting every county in England,
and, entering the drawing-room simultaneously
with the butler and the tea-tray, steered
straight for the sofa where Jeanne was seated
alone. He had based his calculations upon a long
experience of the changeless customs of Holm-hurst,
and these were fully justified by the event.

Helen and Blanche were at the grand-piano, producing
subdued discord ; Aunt Susan was bending
over her tatting and warming her toes before the
fire ; and Mrs. Ashley, with her cap hanging by
a single hau'pin, was nodding drowsily over the
advertisement sheet of the Times keeping up a
dropping fire of inaudible comments the while
upon the family events recorded therein. The
Holmhurst drawing-room has no lack of space,
and Jeanne was, for all needful purposes, alone
in it.

'At last! ' ejaculated Barrington, with a sigh
of satisfaction, as he sank down upon the cushions
beside her.

Very likely the words may have found an
echo in Jeanne's heart ; but, if so, they remained
there, and did not rise to her lips.

You do not follow the English habit of
drinking wine after your dinner ? ' said she, inquiringly.


As a general thing, I do,' answered Barrington.
' It is a very agreeable and sensible
sort of habit, I think ; only there are occasions,
every now and then, when one may employ one's
time even more agreeably by abandoning it.'
Jeanne smiled. She had made up her mind;

to avoid Mr. Barrington ; but it was impossible
for her to carry out her resolution at this moment
without making it more apparent than she desired
to do ; and why, she thought, should she not
enjoy the happiness of sitting beside him and
hearing his voice, since the situation was none of
her seeking ?

Have you been painting a great deal since I
saw you last ? ' she asked.

No ; scarcely at all,' answered Barrington.
For a long time I could not bear the sight of
paint or brushes, because they reminded me so of
Algiers ; and then, when I did take them up
again, I hadn't the patience to finish anything I
had begun.'

You were always a little impatient, I think,'
observed Jeanne.

Do you ? ' returned Barrington, wonderingly.
Well, now, that is really a very odd thing. I
don't think I ever was told before that I was impatient.
On the contrary, I have always been
considered so particularly even-tempered and easygoing.
When could I have shown any signs of
impatience before you, I wonder ? '

I dare say I could give you several instances
if I were to think about it,' answered Jeanne,

laughing. ' Have you forgotten that evening at
Fort Napoleon, when you were so very much
annoyed because I kept you sitting out in front of
the hotel for half-an-hour ? '

Excuse me, it was not half-an-hour, but a
good two hours. And being kept waiting did
not annoy me in the least — if I was annoyed.
Oh, dear me ! what a long time ago it seems ! '

Yes, a long time.'

How I wish those days were back again !
How I wish I had not left Algiers when I did ! I
found my sister perfectly well, by-the-bye, when
I reached London. That is to say, that I didn't
find her at all, because she had gone off to
Brighton for change of air. They galvanised her,
or electrified her, or something, and she hopped
out of bed as brisk as a bee.'

You must have been very glad.'

Glad ? Well, yes, of course one was glad in
one way ; but it was rather exasperating to have
been dragged, post-haste, all the way from Africa
for no reason at all. And do you know,' continued
Barrington, lowering his voice and speaking
more gravely, ^ I can't help thinking sometimes
that, if I had remained in Algiers, things might
Jive turned out differently.'

What things ? ' Jeanne asked. But she knew
very well what he meant.

Barrington paused : he was always pausing at
critical moments. And just now his pause happened
to coincide with a general silence, for Helen
had either reached the end of her stock of ballads,
or did not care about wasting her voice upon so
unappreciative an audience; or it may well be
that the spectacle of her cousin's prolonged
tete-astute with Mr. Barrington was not quite an
agreeable one to her. She glanced across the
room at the pair — at Jeanne, in her black dress,
reclining in a corner of the sofa, and fanning herself
gently — at Barrington, with his elbows resting
on his knees, and his chin on his hands, looking
eagerly into his companion's face — Helen, I say,
glanced at this tableau, and her pink cheeks
became pinker, and a flash shot from her pale
blue eyes, and she slammed down the piano with
a noise that made Miss Barrington start round in
her chair.

My dear child,' said the old lady, reprovingly,
if you particularly wish to see me jump out of
my skin, by all means get a paper bag and blow
it out, and bang it close to my ear ; but don't
destroy your father's property.'

I beg your pardon,' said poor Helen, meekly.
And then the two gentlemen came in from the
dining-room, and Mrs. Ashley woke up and felt
for her cap.

Leigh, one of the most good-natured of men,
took in the situation at a glance, and, advancing
towards the two daughters of the house, began
doing his best to entertain them. But, in spite of
this considerate conduct on the part of his friend,
Barrington's chance for that evening was lost.
Mr. Ashley, in high good humour after his dinner
and his bottle of claret, thought fit to plant himself
directly in front of his niece.

Why, Jane,' cried he, ' what's all this I hear
of you from Barrington? He tells me you are
one of the best horsewomen he ever saw. God
bless my soul ! why didn't you say so before ? I
could have given you a mount, and introduced
you to fox-hunting, the finest sport in the whole
world, and I don't care who denies it ! My girls,
you see, are not much use in the saddle, so I
haven't got what you could call a regular lady's
horse in my stable ; but if you think you could
manage one of mine '

Mademoiselle de Mersac could manage any
horse,' said Barrington. ' She has broken in

many an Arab colt before now, and that is more
than some men whom I know could do.'

You don't tell me so ! ' exclaimed Mr. Ashley,
much impressed. ' Well, there's the Mammoth, she
might have him.'

The Mammoth wouldn't do at all,' said Barrington,
decisively. ' I don't mean to say that
Mademoiselle de Mersac couldn't ride him, but he
pulls like a steam-engine, and he has the paces of
a dray-horse — begging your pardon, Mr. Ashley.
No ; what I was thinking of was that little chestnut
mare of mine. She is fretful and fidgety with a
man on her back, but a lady, with a light hand,
could do anything with her.'

Mr. Ashley looked grave. ' We mustn't break-jane's
neck,' he said. ' That mare of yours wants
riding, Barrington.'

Exactly so,' replied Barrington, ' and Mademoiselle
de Mersac can ride. Otherwise, you maybe
sure that I should never have proposed such a
mount to her. I wish you would do me the
honour to try the mare,' he continued, turning to
Jeanne,

Well, if you think it's all right, Barrington,
I don't know why she shouldn't. It'll be be something
for you to tell your French friends, Jane, that

you have ridden to hounds in England,' said Mr.
Ashley, who really felt that the distinction thus
earned would be no slight one.

I should like a ride very much, but I would
rather not hunt,' answered Jeanne, being in some
uncertainty as to how far ladies were permitted
to dispense with a chaperon in England.

You'll be as safe on the mare as you are on
this sofa,' said Barrington, misinterpreted her reluctance.


ril take care of you,' added Mr. Ashley, reassuringly.


And then Leigh, who had basely deserted his
post to listen to the discussion, chimed in with,
Do come, mademoiselle.'

All this was rather hard upon Helen, who did
not hunt, and who had hitherto been accustomed
to receive the ready homage of all male visitors to
Holmhurst. Possibly Jeanne may have noticed
the gathering clouds upon her cousin's brow ; at
all events she rose from her sofa, and saying,
'Thank you, but I do not wish it,* crossed the
room, and seated herself beside Miss Barrington.

Miss Barrington's sharp black eyes rested upon
her neighbour with a look of admiration not unmingled
with respect. This wrinkled old woman,

who had been beautiful once, and might have
married well over and over again had she been so
minded, liked nothing better than to see men, as
she said, ' kept in their proper place.' The girls
of the present day, she often complained, had
neither the power nor the will to do this, seeking
husbands instead of allowing themselves to besought,
and thereby utterly failing in their duty
to their sex. So, when Jeanne, in her cool,
imperial manner, said, ' I do not wish it,' Miss
Barrington's heart warmed to her.

There are so many ways of saying ' I do not
wish it.' The words, which, coming from most
people, would have sounded ungracious, and from
many simply ridiculous, did not appear either the
one or the other as they fell from Jeanne's lips,
which were curved into a faint, grave smile as
she. spoke. She had not the slightest intention of
putting anyone in his proper place, but was merely
expressing her determination in her customary
unambiguous way ; and so she was understood by
the three men, who made no attempt to pursue
the subject further. Upon Miss Barrington's
mind, however, the little scene produced a more
lasting impression. From that hour Jeanne
became to her an interesting study, and she resolved

to see more of this strange girl, who
seemed to find as much attraction in the vicinity
of an old lady as in that of two wealthy and handsome
young men.

Good night. I think, when we know each
other better, we shall be very good friends,' she
said to Jeanne, rather to the latter 's wonderment,
after Barrington and Leigh had taken their departure,
and the usual ceremony of family prayers
had been gone through, and Mr. Ashley was
yawning loudly.

It was thus that Jeanne gained a friend who
was destined to exercise some little influence
upon the future course of her life. Miss Barrington
plumed herself upon being a woman of the
world. In her youth she had been a beauty ;
afterwards, when her good looks had faded away,
she had become an heiress ; and she had seen a
great deal of men and women, and had long since,
so she said, discovered what the human race was
worth. She did not expect much of her fellow-creatures,
she would often aver — certainly nothing
resembling chivalry or heroism — no, nor even
common honesty. In reality, however, she was
far from" holding the opinions she laid claim to,
but was a shrewd, kind-hearted, impulsive old

soul, who was often swindled and often deceived,
who was full of strong likings and antipathies,
who was prone to form sudden prejudices and
fancies, and tenacious of them when formed. She
had taken a fancy now to this beautiful, stately
French girl, and thenceforth she seized every
opportunity of drawing her out and endeavouring
to discover her tastes and habits.

Jeanne, for her part, was always willing to
spend half an hoi* or so in listening to the chat
of the old lady, whom she liked because she was
so quaint, so original and plain-spoken, so very
imhke the Ashleyss. Or was it, perhaps, in some
degree because her name was Barringtou, and
because she was the aunt of her nephew ?

CHAPTEE XXXI.

JEANNE IS SHOWN THE SCENERY OF SURREY.

If everyone were compelled, by some irresistible
force, to state what had been the happiest period
of his or her life, what odd, pathetic revelations
would be made, and what unlooked-for confirmation
certain threadbare truisms would receive!
For, indeed, what all say, and few believe, is, after
all, the truth — that happiness is no more to be
commanded than success ; that neither health,
wealth, rank, nor glory can bestow it ; and that
he who sets it before himself as his chief object in
life is absolutely certain to miss his end.

Now it came to pass that, in the month of
December 1870, our heroine, in whose character
selfishness was assuredly no prominent trait, was
blessed with two weeks during which all things
seemed to go well with her. It is true that what
cause she had had for trouble and anxiety remained
to her still, for did not every hour bring

her nearer to the time when Saint-Luc should
come riding back from the wars to claim his
bride ? And was not Leon, in these same wintry
days, campaigning in the chill Loiret country, at
the mercy of wind and weather, and of any stray
German bullet ? But just then Jeanne was enabled
to set aside these dismal thoughts and forebodings ;
and if anyone thinks that such capacity showed
any want of feeling on her part, it is clear that
that person was never in love, and can, therefore,
be no fit judge of her case.

The chestnut mare, having been duly tried and
found tractable, was sent up to the Holmhurst
stables for Mademoiselle de Mersac's temporary
use. Jeanne demurred at first to this arrangement,
but gave way when Mr. Ashley, whose
heart had been completely won by the skill of
this beautiful young horse-breaker, swore that,
unless she did so, he would buy the mare himself
of Barrington and offer her to his niece as a
Christmas present. Mrs. Ashley, good, imprudent
soul, aided and abetted.

By all means use the horse, my dear chih^,
said she. ' My girls would in a moment, only
unfortunately they have no nerve ; and Mr. Barrington
has more horses and more money than he
VOL. in. G

knows what to do with ; and a good gallop will
bring the roses into your cheeks, which, I'm sure,
they want — not that your complexion isn't lovely,
but just a tinge of colour, you know, is an improvement
to everybody. And as to hunting, I
can't see myself any reason why you shouldn't,
except that gentlemen never do really like ladies
in the hunting-field, whatever they may say ; but
at any rate you might ride to the meet, and Simpson
could bring you home, if you didn't mind ;
and really it woukl be the greatest comfort to us
all to think that there was some amusement for
you here, aimless, of course, M. de Saint-Luc had
any objection to your riding.'

I do not consult M. de Saint-Luc about such
things,' said Jeanne, with much dignity. And so
the matter Alas settled.

About this time two phenomena began to bea
good deal commented upon by the subscribers
to the Surrey hunt. One of these was the frequent
appearance at the meets of a beautiful
Frenchwoman — a niece of old Ashley's, of Holm-hurst,
people said — who sat her horse Hke an
Amazon, but never followed the hounds ; and the
other was the curiously unsportsmanlike conduct
of the master of Broadridge. Barrington, whose

boast it had ever been that he did nothing by-halves,
had earned and sustained a good reputation
in the hunting-field. Admirably mounted —
as a bachelor of his means could well afford to
be — riding at once judiciously and boldly, and
knowing every inch of the country, it had hitherto
been a tolerable certainty that, so long as the
hounds were out, he would be with them. But
now he seemed to have determined that under no
circumstances would he see the end of a run. He
seldom missed a meet, it is true ; but, whatever
may have been the object of his attendance, it
was apparently not to pursue the fox that he went
out. If perchance a cover were drawn blank,
that was quite enough for him ; and often he
would not even wait long enough to make sure of
such a disappointment, but, after a brief interval
of impatient fidgeting, would remark to anyone
who happened to be near that this kind of thing
really wasn't good enough, you know, and that
he was going home. Kay, more than once, after
getting off well, he was thrown out in the most
unaccountable manner, and disappeared, no one
knew whither.

Jeanne could have told them what became of
the renegade sportsman on these occasions ; and

a 2

SO, for that matter, could Simpson, had he been
garrulously given. But Simpson was getting into
years, and had learnt to hold his tongue, and,
according to his own words, to ' keep himself to
himself.'

Simpson, however, knew all about it. He
knew perfectly well, as he shagged slowly along
the miry lanes astride one of the carriage-horses,
who would presently come thundering up from
behind him, or pop over a hedge at his side, and
say, with the utmost consideration, ' Oh, Simpson,
hadn't you better be pushing on towards home ?
Mrs. Ashley will be wanting you this afternoon,
you know, and I will see that the young lady gets

back all right. Oh, and Simpson, here's '

And then this corrupt old groom would stretch
out his right hand for a moment, withdraw it
again, raise it to his hat, with a brisk ' Thank ye,
sir,' and touch his horse with the spur.

He did not chatter about these things when he
got back to the stables. He was not the man to
judge his betters, or to jump to hasty conclusions
because Mr. Barrington and Maxwell chose to
ride about the country together for a couple of
hours or more, instead of returning direct to
Holmhurst. For aught he knew, such ways of

going on might be customary in France. And, in
the meantime, he was a married man, with a
young family, and half-sovereigns were half-sovereigns.


Long afterwards, when Barrington, in confidential
intercourse, used to alice to these protracted
rides, he was wont to declare that not
once, in the course of any of them, had a word
passed between him and Mademoiselle de Mersac
which might not have been safely uttered in the
presence of a third person. Indeed, Jeanne
would not, at this time, have permitted her companion
to address her as he had once done, in the
days of her freedom, in Algiers. But words,
which are at best but a poor and inadequate
means of expressing thought, may be replaced, as
everybody knows, in many effectual ways ; and
probably those brief December days brought to
our two friends as perfect a mutual understanding
as they were likely ever to arrive at in this
world.

They did not trouble the high road much.
Sometimes they rode through winding byways
and drowsy little villages ; sometimes past farmhouses,
where the sound of approaching hoofs set
the dogs barking and frightened the ducks and

geese from their stagnant pool ; sometimes across
a ploughed field or a stretch of pasture land. But
most of all they liked to breast the steep sides of
the chalk hills, and, after a short breathing-space
upon the summit, to gallop over the free and rolling
downs. Barrington, in his double capacity of
an Englishman and a native of Surrey, was very
properly anxious to point out the beauties of the
wintry landscape to one who otherwise might
possibly have failed to appreciate them. The
every-varying nature of the prospect was what
he chiefly insisted upon. The attractiveness of
scenery, he said, was, after all, almost entirely a
question of atmosphere. It was not mere outline,
however exquisite, that could satisfy the eye,
but light and shade, or, to speak more correctly,
gradations of colour ; and the more these shifted
and changed, the greater must be the charm of
the natural picture ; so that, although Surrey had
not the grandeur of Algeria, and the English sun
was but a poor imitation of the African, yet the
wild, rainy winter of these Northern latitudes
could produce effects unknown in brighter climes ;
and whether a blustering sour-wester swept the
bare downs under a low, grey sky, or whether there
were a touch of frost in the air, and the blue

smoke rose straight above the distant homesteads,
or whether all the view were softened by a pearly-mist,
through which pale rays of sunlight struggled
here and there, still there was always something in
the aspect of this pastoral country to stir the
artist's heart, and, almost every day, something
fresh.

Barrington discoursed at considerable length
in this strain, and said many foolish and affected
things, and, every now and then, a true one. If
it lead pleased him to enlarge upon the origin of
species or the meaning of existence, the effect
produced upon the mind of his auditor would
have been very nearly the same. It was not so
much what Barrington said as the sound of his
voice that she loved to listen to ; and doubtless he
might have uttered ten times the number of absurdities
that he did without any risk of her thinking
him less witty and wise. Jeanne was at this time
as nearly happy as it was possible for her to be.
She was constantly alone with the man whom she
loved; and that was enough for her. Whether
he loved her was a question which she had not put
to herself since the renewal of her intimacy with
him — or, at all events, had not consciously put.
Neither had her thoughts reverted to the dream

she had once cherished of passing the remainder
of her Hfe with him. Her destiny was to marry
M. de Saint-Luc, while his might very likely lead
him into a union with Helen Ashley, a person
entirely unworthy of him. But what was the use
of dwelling upon the dark future ? Jeanne rejoiced
in the present, and troubled herself very little, it
is to be feared, about its ultimate issues, whether
as regarded herself or others. That she ought to
have so troubled herself is not to be denied ; but
her biographer would humbly submit that he has
not intended to represent Mademoiselle de Mersac
as a type of feminine perfection.

As for Barrington, his character must indeed
have been imperfectly indicated if it be not at
once perceived what influence this sort of quasi-friendly
intercourse was likely to have upon him.
So long as the surface of life was made smooth
and easy for this philosopher, he was not the man
to search for any germs of possible sorrow that
might lie beneath it. He was deeply in love with
Jeanne ; he luxuriated in the hints and insinuations
of his love which opportunity enabled him to indulge
in ; he had just enough doubt as to her
sentiments with regard to him to add zest to his
philandering; and as for that determination of

making her his wife which he had announced so
firmly to his friend Leigh, that might conveniently
be put upon the shelf for a season.

And if some extenuation be required for the
thoughtless conduct of these two persons, it may
perhaps be found in the fact that those about
them threw no sort of obstacle in their path. A
matter had to be thrust very close under Mrs.
Ashley's nose before she would become aware of
it ; Mr. Ashley had long since made up his mind,
in a dull, vague way, that Barrington was eventually
to marry his eldest daughter, and had no
fears upon the score of this French niece, who was
already engaged to some foreigner or other ; and
Miss Barrington, who alone saw whither the course
of events was tending, had reasons of her own for
not choosing to interfere with it. Even Helen,
though she was a trifle dissatisfied and jealous,
felt no serious alarm ; for she had that curiously
infatuated belief in the power of her own charms
which would appear to be the especial property
of fair-haired, lymphatic women,

So it was that Barrington was allowed to ride
about the country with Jeanne all day, and to
spend nearly every evening at Holmhurst, without
let or hindrance.

Now, there lived in the neighbourhood a certain
big personage, whose name is of no importance
to our story, but who, in the lack of a better
pseudonym, may be called the Marquis of Carabas ;
and this nobleman, residing but little upon his
Surrey estates, yet anxious, for political and other
reasons, to keep on good terms with the landed
gentry of the county, great and small, was accustomed,
in the month of December, every year, to
give a ball, to which, with a large-hearted hospitality,
it was his rule to invite the whole of them.
To Helen and Blanche Ashley this annual festivity
was as important an event as the Derby is to some
people and Easter Monday to others. By ancient
and prescriptive right they each received a present
of a ball-dress from their father as the time
for the event drew near. They talked of it for
weeks beforehand, and wondered who would be
there with as much eagerness as if there had been
the slightest doubt as to the number and names
of the guests whom they were to meet. And now
nothing would satisfy them but that Jeanne must
see to what a pitch of elegance and luxury the
Surrey entertainments were capable of reaching.

You needn't hesitate on account of its making
an extra lady,' Blanche urged, ' because there is

always such a crowd that one more or less cannot
possibly make any difference ; and Lady Carabas
is so good-natured and kind. Mamma met her in
Westerham the other day, and she said we were
to be sure to bring anybody who might be staying
in the house. Do come.'

Come ! ' cried Mrs. Ashley. ' Of course she
will come. Why should she not ? If it is about
your being in mourning that you are thinking, my
dear, that is of no consequence at all ; it is not
the custom in England for people to shut themselves
up on that account. There were two girls
who lived in this neighbourhood — I can't recollect
their name just now, but everybody knew them —
and their hither fell downstairs one evening and
broke his neck— such a shocking thing! I always
think it is so dreadful for people to meet their
death in that kind of ridiculous manner, because
one can't help laughing a little at it, and yet it is
quite as bad for them and their relations, you
know, as if they had died in their beds, in the
ordinary way — not but what it was just as well in
this particular case, for I believe the poor man
drank terribly, and they said he used to beat his
wife. Well, I remember perfectly that, about
six weeks, or perhaps it may have been two

months afterwards, a charity ball was given at
Legate, and there were those girls, smothered in
black crape, but in low dresses — striking, still
very becoming to them, I must say, for they had
clear white skins, something like yours, my dear ;
and they made quite a sensation, and a great many
people were scandalised, and one of them married
an enormously rich man — a timber merchant, or
something — immediately afterwards. It incas sl
little soon certainly — the ball I mean, not the
marriage — but I mention it just to show you that
you need not feel any scruple.'

Jeanne explained that, if she declined to be
present at the Marchioness of Carabas's ball, it
would not be owing to any apprehension of the
kind suggested.

Then you really must come,' said Blanche.
And Barrington, who happened to be present,
took occasion to add that the whole county would
consider itself slighted if Mademoiselle de Mersac
refused to countenance its small attempts at
gaiety.

That is very great nonsense,' returned Jeanne,
all her old dislike for laboured compliments
aroused by this absurd assertion. * I know no
one in the county, and no one can miss me if I

stay away ; but if my friends in Algiers heard that
I had gone to a ball at such a time as this, when
all our country is in mourning, they would be
very angry. And they would be quite right to
be angry.'

In truth, things were not looking hopeful for
France in those dark December days. The army
of the Loire, under General Chanzy, slowly retreating
; Ducrot forced back into Paris, neither
dead nor victorious ; the Government removed to
Bordeaux, and King William fitting on his Imperial
crown in the palace of Louis XIV. — how
could any Frenchwoman be expected to dance in
the midst of such troubles ?

I will stay at home with Miss Barrington,
and you shall tell me all about the ball the next
morning,' said Jeanne. And Miss Barrington
nodded her head approvingly.

You and Mademoiselle de Mersac will be
rather dull all by yourselves, Aunt Susan,' remarked
Barrington. ' I've a great mind to cut
the ball myself, and to come in and spend the
evening with you.'

You will do nothing of the sort,' returned
his aunt, somewhat sharply. ' The county really
would think itself slighted by your absence — or

at any rate, you believe it would ; and you are
much too considerate to inflict unnecessary pain
upon others. Besides which, you would only
interrupt our chat and be in the way here.'

Thank you very much. I always take it asa
compliment when people tell me they don't
want me. It isn't the sort of thing that one
could say to most men, don't you see, without
being misunderstood.'

'You have that happy self-conceit, Harry,'
replied Miss Barrington, ' that I believe you would
discover some subtle form of flattery in being
called a fool. But you certainly do not misunderstand
me in the present instance. When I tell
you that your room will be preferred to your
company on the 18th, I mean what I say.'

And so she did. It was her rule to state her
wishes in plain terms. She wished, just then, to
have a fcAv words with Jeanne ; and she knew
that this end could hardly be attained so long asher
nephew was in the room. When the evening
of the ball came, and when, after some delay in
the completion of the young ladies' toilettes and a
good deal of fidgeting and grumbling on the part
of Mr. Ashley, the whole party had at last driven
away, she drew a long breath of satisfaction, and,

pulling her armchair up to the fireside, motioned
to Jeanne to do likewise.

Now,' said she, ' we can talk in peace. Tell
me, what do you think of these good people ? '

Jeanne was by this time quite accustomed to
the old lady's abrupt and rather indiscreet questions.
She laughed, and said that everybody in
the house had been very kind to her.

Oh, yes, they are very kind in their way. I
don't want to eat their salt and then speak against
them behind their backs, you know. But it is
quite possible to be kind, amiable, tolerably well-educated,
and hospitable, and at the same time to
be a great bore ; and I confess that these dear
Ashleyss bore me. On the other hand, I am such
a bore to them that you may be sure they would
not have pressed me to stay six weeks in their
house if they had not expected to profit by it,
sooner or later. Do you know how many god-children
I have ? '

Jeanne said ' No.'

Six-ands twenty — no less than that. They
are all of tender years. I never was asked to
stand sponsor to a single infant till I was past
middle age, and independent, and likely to remain
so. Odd, isn't it ? Now, do you think — I ask

you as a friend, you know, and an impartial judge
do you think that Helen would make a suitable
wife for Harry ? '

Jeanne was not likely to be disconcerted by
thrusts of this nature. ' I suppose,' said she,
that Mr. Barrington will choose his wife for
himself.'

Not he ! You don't know him, or you would
not say that. Two months ago I could have got
him to engage himself to Helen Ashley with the
greatest ease in the world. In point of fact, I
very nearly did it. But one changes one's views
very often — at least, I do, I am sorry to say — and
now I begin to think that, after all, Helen would
hardly do. I regret it, because there certainly
was a sort of tacit understanding between me and
the Ashleyss that the match should be made ; but
there — the world is full of disappointments, and
they must take their share like the rest of us. I
shall give Helen a couple of dresses and a fifty-pound
note, and put her down for a trifle more in
my will. I think that will be behaving handsomely.
The only difficulty is to find a substitute
for her.'

But is it necessary that Mr. Barrington shoukl
marry at all ? ' asked Jeanne, rather amused at

the off-hand way in which her friends future was
being mapped out for him.

That is not the question. He is quite sure to
marry, and that before he is much older too.
And I think he has taken up a mistaken notion
of the whole subject, as men often do. And the
truth is, I am fond of Harry — he has been something
more than a nephew to me — and I don't
want him to make his life miserable by a stupid
error.'

Jeanne said nothing, but wondered inwardly
what might be the mistaken notion that Mr. barrington
had adopted.

Marriages,' resumed Miss Barrington, after a
long pause, 'are mostly mistakes. I dare say
you may think that, as an old maid, I am not
very competent to judge ; but lookers-on see most
of the game, and I know what a mess a great
many of my friends have made of it. Sometimes
I think that they manage these things better in
Chicago, though no doubt that system also has its
disadvantages. Anyhow, in this country, a husband
and wife can't dissolve their partnership
because they don't happen to agree ; and, do you
know, the longer I live, the more I become convinced
that there can be no real happiness in

VOL. III. II

married life without love. That is an old-fashioned
idea, I am aware ; but I make bold to maintain
the truth of it, all the same, and in the face of
the fact that a great many men, and nearly all
women, think differently — at all events, before
marriage.'

We think differently in France,' Jeanne observed.


f . ' Yes ; and look at the result ! Not, of course,
that you can know anything about that. You will
know though, one of these days, if you don't
.mind what you are about. Now, don't look offended,
my dear girl, because I am a blunt old
woman, and I shall say what I please, when I
think it is for your good. Take my word for it,
you had better get rid of M. de Saint-Luc while
-you can. Harry has told me all about him.'
M would rather discuss Mr. Barrington's marriage
than my own,' said Jeanne.

I don't see any reason why we should not
discuss both ; but no matter — yoims can stand
.over for the present. I want to find Harry a
wife idiom he can love, who will love him in
return, and who well have enough tact and self-respect
to prevent him from tiring of her in six
months. If you should ever come across such a
person, it would be a friendly act on your part to

beg her to put herself in communication with me.
I am going away the day after tomorrow.'

So soon ! ' ejaculated Jeanne, her breath
rather taken away by the suddenness with which
this intended move was announced.

Yes. I have lead enough, and more than
enough, of Holmhurst for the present ; and really
it is time for me to visit another of my twenty-six
food-children. After the new year, 1 shall hero to
my own house in London ; and then I want you
to come and stay with me. Will you come ? '

I should like it very much,' answered Jeanne,
rather hesitatingly ; ' that is, if my uncle and aunt
have no objection.'

Good gracious me ! what objection could
they have? I should like to hear them object
to anything that I proposed ! You need not be
afraid of finding London dull. I see a good many
people of one kind and another, and you will not
be left very much alone with me. I shouldn't
wonder if Harry were to come up to town in
January. I know he means to leave this before
Christmas. Well, then, that is all settled. And
BOW I am going off to bed.'

., Miss Barrington accordingly collected her
work, her spectacles, the book that she was reading,

and her other belongings, and departed. But Jeanne
sat staring into the fire, thinking, wondering, and
doubting within herself, until at length the revellers
returned from their ball, the elders yawning,
but the young people still excited and voluble.

Helen was in the best of tempers and spirits.
She had, it appeared, achieved a signal success.
Her card had been filled up within five minutes
of her entrance into the ball-room; old Lord
Carabas had trotted up to her and complimented
her upon her blooming complexion. ' Father
impertinent of him, wasn't it? But I suppose
one ought not to mind that kind of thing from an
old gentleman,' said the pleased Helen. Mr. Barrington
had made himself especially agreeable,
and she had danced with him three times — oh,
no, not awe times, Blanche — certainly not — well,
perhaps it might have been four. And so forth,
and so forth.

The retrospect lasted a good half-hour ; and
at the end of it Jeanne, seeking the solitude of
her own room, sat down to think over the events
of the evening, and to wonder what the end of
all this would be. For her, if for no one else,
she was beginning to perceive that there was
every appearance, at present, of troubles ahead.

CHAPTER XXXII.

IX AVHICH Barrington DOES A GREAT DEAL OF
TALKING.

Miss Barrington proved as good as her word.
Two days after the ball she bade a cordial farewell
to her friends at Holmhurst, and drove away
from the door, her prim, elderly maid facing heron
the back seat of the carriage, and her neat
luggage following in a cart, under the charge of
two servants. The number of hitherto invisible
retainers who started up to render Miss Barrington
some small service, on the last day of her
sojourn in any country-house, was something astonishing
; but she did not object to the practice,
and, indeed, had done something to encourage it,
holding, as she did, that one of the few unmixed
delights that accrue to the possessor of a full
purse is that of indiscriminate tipping.

The Ashleyss, one and all, bemoaned her departure
loudly ; and a perceptible gloom fell upon

the household after lie had gone. But was this
owing solely to grief over the loss of their guest,
or had her casual remark that she expected
Mademoiselle de Mersac to pay her a visit, early
in the ensuing month, anything to do with it?
It is a fact that Helen had been given to suppose
that she, and not her cousin, was to have been
thus favoured ; and if this unexpected change of
programme produced some feeling of soreness and
disappointment in her breast, and a little anxiety
in that of her parents, who can blame them ?

It must, at all events, be recorded to their
credit that they vented none of the ill-humour
they may have felt upon Jeanne, but were only a
trifle silent and dispirited during the remainder of
the day. Miss Barrington, as they all knew, was
a capricious old person, liable to all kinds of passing
fancies, which those who valued her friendship
must needs put up with. It was certainly
not a little vexatious that she should have chosen
to defraud Helen of her visit to London, but that
she might be contemplating the far more serious
injury of robbing her of her potential husband
was a notion that had not as yet suggested itself
to anyone of them.

And to Helen, at any rate, joy came in the

morning. For upon her plate at breakfast-time
she found a very kind note from her god-mother,
enclosing a cheque for fifty pounds, and at the
same time requesting her to order for herself, byway
of a Christmas present, two dresses, with regard
to the materials and trimmings of which no
restriction was laid upon her. The same post
brought a little pile of foreign letters to Jeanne,
two of which were evidently from M. de Font-vieille
and from her brother's bailiff respectively.

Pierre Cauvin's composition was in the highest
degree creditable to him. The style of it was
ornate, the orthography ingenious if somewhat
peculiar, and the absence of erasures testified that
the whole production was probably the result of
more than one rough copy. He began by offering
humble thanks to Providence for his continued
preservation in good health, and likewise for that
of all his subordinates, whom he made it a point
to mention severally, so that the first page of his
letter, \vith its long string of harshly sounding-arab
names, read not unlike one of the genealogical
chapters of the Old Testament. This duty
accomplished, he went on to express a respectful
hope that mademoiselle had not suffered from the
effects of the bleak climate of the North. He had

taken some pains, lie said, since mademoiselle's
departure, to discover whether the English winter
were as formidable as it had been represented,
and had gained a little reassuring information
from the captain of a yacht which had lately come
into harbour. ' He is a native of Houses, in the
island of Ouaite,' wrote Pierre, ' which, according
to him, is one of the British Isles, though I have
not been able to discover it upon the map. He
tells me that in his part of the country snow and
frost are seldom seen, but I have remarked that
the stories of sailors should be received with
caution. This one would have me believe, for
instance, that, during the summer months, there
are often as many as a hundred yachts such as his
master's — a vessel, mademoiselle, fitted up with
inconceivable luxury — lying off the little town
where he lives, and that this is but a small fraction
of the number of pleasure-ships that carry
the English flag. I answer him nothing ; but
mademoiselle is aware that an Auvergnat is not
the man to let himself be taken in by an Englishman.
I ask pardon of mademoiselle if I seem to
speak disrespectfully of the nation to which madame
her honoured mother belonged ; but the
truth is that Messieurs les Anglais ne sont pas

matins' — (the phrase is hardly to be translated
satisfactorily). ' We have but few of them here
this winter, owing to the war ; and the shopkeepers
and landlords complain much of their
absence. The country, mademoiselle, continues
to rejoice in a profound tranquillity. The Arabs
have not moved as yet ; but one must not trust
too much to them. The autumn rains have answered
to our utmost hopes ' — &c. &c. &c. At
this point Pierre entered upon agricultural topics,
and fell into a more vernacular strain of language.
M.deFontvieille wrote somewhat despondently.
He was very lonely, he said, very dull, and old age
was gaining upon him every day. He had no
longer the slightest hope of any successful termination
to the war, and foresaw yet worse
troubles looming on the horizon. Why he had
been destined to live on into these bad times,
after nearly all his contemporaries had been
removed, was more than he could understand ;
and he should pray for the end, were it not that
he longed to embrace his beloved children once
more. He cheered up a little, however, on the
last page, and related, with manifest glee, how he
had purchased a magnificent pearl necklace from
a distressed Moor, and with what crafty devices

he had managed to get the better of that needy
unbeliever.

And now Jeanne lead to open her third letter,
which she had reserved for the last, not upon the
schoolboy's principle of pudding first and plums
afterwards, but rather because she had feared
that, had she read this letter before the others,
the remembrance of it would probably have entirely
marred her enjoyment of them, for she had
seen at once that it was from M. de Saint-Luc.

After all, it proved to be only a friendly, but
formal reply to one which, in a fit of compunction,
she had addressed to him soon after her
arrival in England. It opened with ' Dear Mademoiselle,'
and closed with an assurance of the
writer's respectful homage ; it contained little
information of a personal kind, except the modest
mention of a slight wound, already nearly healed,
and a pardonable self-congratulation upon the conduct
of the regiment, which was now serving
under General Bourbaki ; it dwelt at some length
upon the gallantry and cheerful endurance displayed
by Leon ; it touched briefly upon the
prospects of the campaign ; and was, in short, as
unlike the missive of a lover to his affianced bride
as anything could well be. Nothing could have

been more discreet, nothing less calculated to
ruffle the susceptibilities of the lady to whom it
was addressed ; yet, in spite of its matter-of-fact
tone — perhaps in consequence of it — it caused
Jeanne to feel some sharp twinges of conscience.

It was not because her whole heart belonged
to Barrington that she reproached herself: she
had been quite clear in her mind, from the first,
that nothing in the nature of love was due from
her to M. de Saint-Luc. Astor did she deem herself
much to blame in that she had left her future
husband for so long without any direct news of
her or inquiry after his safety. But what troubled
her was an uneasy feeling that this man, whom
she had always despised, was treating her with a
generosity which she had certainly not deserved
at his hands. Hitherto she had looked forward to
her marriage simply and solely with reference to
its bearing upon Leon's fortunes and her own.
Of M. de Saint-Luc lie had thought as little asa
patient for whom leeches have been prescribed
is apt to think of the suffering in store for those
loathsome creatures, who, however, have obviously
not altogether the best of it in the unpleasant
business. To her he had been only a means —
and a most distasteful means — towards an end.

But now lie began to wonder whether, after all,
it were worthy of her, or even just, to regard him
in this light. M. de Fontvieille and the Cure of
El Biar had both given her to understand — though
not, perhaps, in so many words — that it was permissible
to marry one man and to love another ;
but when they had thus soothed her scruples, that
other had been many hundred miles away, which
certainly made a difference. Neither of them
would have been likely to sanction those long
rides of which mention has been made ; even less
would they have approved of the dialogues between
their protegee and the Englishman, in
which so little importance was said and so much
inferred. The truth was that Jeanne had, for
some time, been unconsciously stifling a conviction
that out of all this some issue must come ; that
she would scarcely be able to part from Barrington
without some sort of mutual avowal ; and
Saint-Luc's letter was but a flash of additional
light thrown suddenly upon the point from which
she had, until now, sedulously averted her eyes.
Not that she actually faced it even yet. She did
not say to herself that Barrington loved her, or that
he must have conjectured what her feelings were
towards him. She did not dwell upon the thought

that, if lie and she were really all in all to one
another, nothing — not even Leon's interests —
ought to keep them apart. How could she, when
the man whom she loved had as yet given her no
right to do so ? But, as the upshot of a good
deal of confused and perplexed self-communing,
she did determine that the chestnut mare should
return forthwith to the Broadridge stables, where,
if she had only known it, Barrington and Leigh
were, at that very moment, deep in a conversation,
in the course of which her name had recurred at
tolerably frequent intervals.

The two friends had visited every stall and
loose-box, had duly criticised the condition of
their occupants, had seen some of the horses go
out for exercise, and now Leigh had seated himself
upon an upturned bucket before the stable-door,
and was puffing at a short wooden pipe,
while, with half-closed eyes and patient mien, he
listened to a protracted discourse from his host,
who was pacing to and fro as he talked, and
pausing, every now and then, in front of his
auditor, to emphasize a point or roimd a period.

I admit the justice of your arguments,' the
orator was saying ; ' I admit that there are serious
objections to my marrying a lady who is not

English by birth, and Who will of course be, all
her life, more or less under the influence of the
priests. I don't mind going even further, and
allowing that there are certain subjects upon
which she and I might very possibly not find ourselves
in complete sympathy. Moreover, I fully
agree with you in thinking that such a girl as
Helen Ashley is far better to become the wife of
an English country gentleman than Mademoiselle
de Mersac, and that, in the matter of marriage, a
wise man will pay more heed to the long years
to come than to the passion of the present.'

'Didn't know I'd said all that,' remarked
Leigh, parenthetically ; ' but it sounds very
sensible.'

It is sensible, and therefore you said it. Or
else you said it, and therefore it is sensible. A
Yarmouth bloater is not more impregnated with
salt than you are with common sense. You are
the best of fellows, my dear old Leigh, but you
are a Philistine of the Philistines.'

Ah, I don't understand that kind of slang;
but if a Philistine means a man who does his best
to see facts as they are, instead of perpetually
trying to mystify himself and everybody about
him, I glory in being one.' ; .e^.^f^;^^'>^■>

Of course you do, and quite right too. I
never said there weren't good points about a
Philistine. We are what we are ; we can't help
our natures, and may as well be proud of our
several excellences. I, for instance, am not commonplace,
and I am glad of it. Jeanne is not
commonplace ; our intercourse lias not been commonplace
; and why, in Heaven's name, are we
to hurry it into a commonplace ending ? '

Leigh knocked out the ashes from his pipe
against the heel of his boot, and looked up with
an air of wearied toleration.

If I can make out what you are driving
at may I be — married myself! ' he ejaculated.
When you began to talk I certainly understood
that what you were arguing to prove was that
you would be doing a wise thing in marrying this
French girl, though the rest of the world would
probably think otherwise. Now, as far as I can
see, you are protesting against such a " commonplace
" notion. But, if you don't intend marriage,
what on earth do you intend ? You say you are
not going in for a mere flirtation ; you are forever
swearing that you can't live without the girl ;
and yet, you know, you won't be able to go on
galloping about the country with her and larking

over fences till the end of your life, unless you
get at least as far as an engagement. And in the
meantime, as a matter of detail, she happens to be
engaged to another fellow.'

Mr. Leigh stated the case quite correctly. His
friend had, indeed, shifted his ground in the
course of argument, as was habitual with him ;
but Barrington was not the man to be put out by
any charge of inconsistency. He simply ignored
it, and proceeded to follow out his train of
thought.

'No doubt,' said he, 'we shall settle down,
some day, as Mr. and Mrs. Barrington, and have
people here to stay with us, and ask the neighbours
to dinner once a month, and go to church
on Sundays — no, by-the-by, I suppose we shall
not go to church together. All that will be very
delightful, and I ask for nothing better ; only
don't you see that, when that time comes, there
will be an end to the " shone Liebeszeit " ?
Marriage, which to people of your stamp is the
goal and crown of all love-making, is to me simply
the death-blow of romance. Not of love, mind
you — I don't say that — but unquestionably of
one of the subtlest charms of love. Remove the
element of uncertainty, and you enter upon an

entirely new phase of the sentiment. I am uncertain
now, and 1 rejoice in being so. Suppose
I were to ask Jeanne point-blank to-clay to be my
wife, how do I know that she would not refuse
me ? How do I know that she would not consider
herself bound in honour to this broken-down
viveur whom her friends have driven her into
accepting ? And there again is another argument
against hurry. It is quite even betting that M. de
Saint-Luc gets knocked on the head before the
war is over ; and if that happy deliverance should
come about, I could step into his place with
much greater propriety and less fuss, don't you
see? But the fact is, Leigh, that you and I
should never see these questions in the same light
if we where to talk till Doomsday. Your idea of
happiness is a bachelor life. Failing that, you
would like to get your courtship over as quickly
as possible, and take a fresh start as a pattern
husband and father. Your ideal world is a
pleasant, fertile valley, neatly marked out into
pastures and ploughed fields, with flocks and herds
and crops in due season. You would be quite
content to plod along it, in a steady, equable
way, for the remainder of your days ; and all
the time you v^ould be so engrossed in watch-vol.

III. I

ing your prosperity increase, and your children
growing up like what's-his-names about your
table, that you would never once raise your eyes
to the measureless blue overhead where the
skylarks are trilling, or to the heights where, far
removed from the confused chatter, and oaths,
and groans, and laughter of men, the snowy
summits sleep on, in calm beauty and grandeur,
from century to century.'

The right honourable gentleman resumed his
seat amidst prolonged cheering, and the proceedings,
which had lasted up to an advanced hour,
then terminated.'

That was all the response that Barrington got
from his confidant, "who now rose, and sauntered
away towards the house. But when he had gone
some ten paces on his way, he faced about, and
called out —

I say, are you really off the day after tomorrow
? '

Yes ; I believe so.'

Oh ! Well, it's no business of mine, and I
don't suppose for a moment that you will be
guided by me ; but, if I were you, I would have
something settled definitely, one way or the other,
before I went.' And, with these parting words of
advice, Mr. Leigh vanished.

As for Barrington, he shrugged his shoulders
with a slight deprecating smile, as who should say,
What else could you expect ? Does a thorn
bear grapes, or a thistle figs? ' — and shortly afterwards,
mounting his horse, rode across the park
towards Holmhurst.

He congratulated himself upon his good fortune
when he found Jeanne alone in the library ;
but the manner of his reception was scarcely what
he lead anticipated. Jeanne was feeling a little
nervous and disturbed in mind ; and when Mr.
Barrington was announced, wished, perhaps for
the first time in her life, that he were away. But
as there was no getting rid of his physical presence,
she set herself to put him at a moral
distance — a task never very difficult to her. She
laid aside the half-written letter upon which she
had been engaged, rose, shook hands, and resumed
her seat with a certain chilly dignity of demeanour
which lead often damped Barrington's spirits
before now. He did not, however, choose to
notice it, but drew a chair up beside hers, and
remarked that it was a beautiful day, and that he
hoped she was coming out for a ride. She said
no ; she did not think she would be able to ride
that day.

I 2

What a bore ! ' exclaimed Barrington. ' I
did hope we should have managed a ride this
afternoon, because I don't know when our next
one will be. To-morrow I am obliged to do a
little justifying, and the day after I have got to go
away on a long-premised visit to some friends.'

Your aunt told me you would be going away
soon,' Jeanne observed.

Yes. I wish to goodness I wasn't ; but I
canst get out of it now, I'm afraid. We shall
meet again though, before very long, I hope.'

To this no reply was forthcoming.

You aise going to stay with my aunt in
January, are you not ? ' Barrington asked, rather
anxiously.

'Perhaps. I have not thought much about it
yet. I suppose your friend Mr. Leigh goes away
too ? '

Leigh ? Oh, yes, he goes, of course. It is a
great nuisance. I wish I had not engaged myself
to these people.'

Oh, you are sure to enjoy yourself when
once you are away,' said Jeanne. ' But we shall
all miss you both,' she added politely.

Barrington grunted. ' I don't care about
being missed in that collective sort of way,' he

said. After which there was silence for a few
moments.

You will give Zephyr a gallop every day I
hope,' resumed Barrington, presently. Zephyr
was the name of the chestnut mare.

I think not. I made up my mind this morning,
before you came, that I would not ride anymore.'


Was Barrington very much to be blamed if he
fancied that his approaching departure might have
something to do with this resolution ?

Ending all by oneself is dull work, certainly,'
he said, while a satisfied smile, which he could
not altogether repress, gathered about the corners
of his mouth.

I like riding alone,' answered Jeanne. ' I
have been accustomed to be left to myself all my
life, and I often think it is much pleasant not to
be obliged to talk to somebody. But, for several
reasons, I do not wish to use your horse any
longer. You have been very kind to allow me to
keep her all this time.'

Might one venture to ask your reasons ? '
Barrington inquired.

Well, one of them is that I am afraid I have
not been enough with my cousins lately. They

must have thought it rather rude in me to leave
them as I have done. And, besides, I am sure it
is not right to make use of another person's horse
as if it were one's own. What should I do if any
accident happened ? '

Barrington protested that he had not the
slightest fear of any harm coming to his property
while under such skilled guidance as that of
Mademoiselle de Mersac ; and moreover that the
safety of Zephyr was a mattei of complete indifference
to him, so long as that of her rider was not
endangered, and a good deal more to the same
effect ; but Jeanne was not to be shaken, and at
last closed, the discussion by a decisive, ' I am very
much obliged to you, but I do not intend to ride
Zephyr again.'

'You are not yourself this morning,' said
Barrington, abruptly. ' Is anything the matter ? '

No. At least nothing particular. It is only
that I have had letters from .France.'

No bad news of your brother, I trust. Was
your letter from him ? '

No ; it was from — somebody else.' (M. de
Saint-Luc's name had not once been mentioned
between these two people since the day of their
first meeting in Broadridge Park.) 'But Leon is

quite Avell, I am thankful to say. It is not
that.'

I suppose it is about somebody else's safety,
then, that you feel anxious,' suggested Barrington,
in a somewhat altered voice.

I am not anxious at all,' answered Jeanne ;
not more so, that is, than I have been ever since
Leon left me ; only I feel that I have been enjoying
myself too much. I cannot exactly explain
what I mean ; but you would understand if you
were in my place. One does not really forget,'
she continued, speaking more to herself than to
her listener. ' One's heart does not ache the less
because one talks and laughs like other people ;
but yet it seems a shameful thing, and almost a
treachery to the absent, that one should be pleased
and amused so easily. How terrible it is to think
that, at this very moment, Leon may be lying
wounded with nobody to take care of him ! And
M. de Saint-Luc too,' she added, with a visible
effort.

Barrington was not in the least jealous. That
quick sympathy and profound acquaintance with
human nature which he especially prided himself
upon enabled him to surmise, without any difficulty,
what Jeanne's present frame of mind was,

and what had led her into it. She lead a tender
conscience and a keen sense of duty, he thought ;
and for these fine qualities he magnanimously
admired her the more. Still it would not do tolet
her fall under the sway of an exaggerated self-distrust.


Oh, but you must not torment yourself in
that manner,' said he, cheerfully ; ' because that
is quite a wrong way of looking at things. If you
were to shut yourself up in your room all day,
and speak to nobody, who would be the better
for it ? Do you think it would increase your
brother's happiness to know that you were making
yourself miserable ? Or do you suppose him so
silly as to imagine that you do not care for him,
because you can still enjoy 'a gallop in the fresh
air ? It would be as reasonable to say that there
was treachery in admiring a beautiful sunset — or
music — or pictures.'

But Jeanne shook her head. ' It is useless to
make excuses like that,' she sighed, a little impatiently.
'I am sure it has been all wrong
from beginning to end. I wish, I wish they had
let me stay at home in Algiers ! '

I am sorry you wish that,' said Barrington,
in a low voice. ' Though perhaps,' he added

presently, 'I have more reason to wish it than
you.'

He glanced up as he spoke, and found Jeanne's
great, serious eyes turned full upon him. And then
there passed between them a long look — one of those
looks which it is so exceedingly reprehensible fora
young man to indulge in, seeing that he may
thus acquire knowledge to which he has no fair
right without committing himself to words.

It was not the first time that Barrington had
thus interrogated Jeanne's eyes ; and now, perhaps,
they could tell him little that he did not
akeady know. Once before, it may be remembered,
he had found himself in a somewhat
similar situation, and had lost his head, and said
something — he hardly remembered what. And
then Madame de Ereuil had come in, leaning on
her stick, and had brought him to his senses in a
trice. No such calming apparition was required
to keep his lips closed upon the present occasion.
To give Barrington his due, it was not out of
prudence, nor from any misgivings as to the
strength of his purpose, that he remained silent,
but in part owing to the motives which he had
avowed to Leigh earlier in the day, and in a still
greater degree, because he was really uncertain

how Jeanne, in lier present temper, would be
likely to receive an open declaration of love. It
was quite within the limits of possibility that she
might take it as an insult. He looked volumes,
therefore, and said nothing ; and presently Mademoiselle
de Mersac herself dispelled the tension of
the moment in the most unromantic manner in
the world. She called Turco, who, all this time,
had been sleeping peacefully under the table ;
and, as the huge brute came out, stretching himself
and wagging his tail lazily — ' He has got
something wrong with his ear,' said she. ' I wish
you would look at it, and tell me what you think
is the matter.'

After that, there was no further danger of a
distressing scene. Who could revert to heroics
after reporting upon the condition of a dog's ear ?
Barrington, half-relieved, half-vexed, went down
upon his knees, made the necessary investigations,
delivered his opinion, and was about to sit down
again, when the Miss Ashleyss came in, rosy and
radiant, from their morning walk, and cordially
begged him to stay to luncheon.

He spent another two hours, or more, in the
house, but he was not permitted to be alone again
with Jeanne. He bade lier good-bye in the

presence of the whole Ashley family, and, with
their eyes upon him, did not dare to say more
than —

It is not good-bye for long, though, I hope.
If I am not back here in the course of a week or
two, we shall be sure, at least, to meet in
London.'

To which Jeanne, with a perfectly unmoved
countenance, responded, ' I hope we may — if I
go there.'

Chapter XXXIII.

ON THE MARCH.

Barrington was so accustomed to being missed
whenever he went away, and he himself regretted
so much the necessity of leaving home just now,
that he almost apologised to his friends at Holm-hurst
as he shook hands with them all, and bade
them farewell for a time. But in truth the loss
of his society afflicted nobody very greatly at this
especial juncture. Jeanne was thankful to be
relieved from a position of which the falseness
had at last fully dawned upon her ; Mr. and Mrs.
Ashley were beginning to suspect that their
daughter's nose had been a little put out of joint
of late by her magnificent cousin ; and Helen
herself, having no doubt whatever upon this
point, hailed the change with positive joy. Moreover,
Christmas was at hand ; and that alone was
sufficient to keep the thoughts and the fingers of
the whole family occupied.

Everybody above the age of eighteen hates
Christina, and now-a-days everybody says so ; but
Holmhurst was in all things some twenty or thirty
years behind time, and to have suggested in that
house that the last week of December and the first
of January were not the two merriest of the whole
twelvemonth, would have been almost tantamount
to a confession of atheism. The jollity of the
season, so far as the actual members of the household
were concerned, took, it must be confessed,
a somewhat heavy and substantial form ; still,
such as it was, they welcomed it for old associations'
sake, and if it brought them no other blessing,
the preparations for it provided them at least
with plenty of work. There were blankets to be
counted, flannel petticoats to be made, and toys
to be selected for the school-children's Christmas-tree,
not to speak of the church decorations, which
were always elaborate, and which the rector's
wife, being fat and lazy, gladly handed over to the
care of ' those dear, good Ashley girls.' And
besides all this, every room in the house had to
be got ready for the annual visit of certain uncles,
aunts, and cousins, some of whom were asked
because they were well-to-do, and others because
they were conspicuously the reverse ; for

Mr. Ashley prided himself upon observing all the
old traditions of Christmas, even down to the entertaining
of poor relations. Jeanne helped with
the flannel petticoats, and earned some praise by
her neat and speedy workmanship.

I learnt to sew quickly during the summer,'
she explained, in answer to some expressions of
surprise from her cousins. ' We had a great deal
of work to do for the wounded, and there was
not always much time to spare.'

If I had a brother, or a — or anybody I cared
a great deal for at the war,' said Helen, ' I should
go off to France at once as a nurse, so as to be
ready to take care of him when he was wounded.'

Perhaps he wouldn't be wounded,' remarked
Jeanne.

Oh, he would be sure to be, sooner or later.
At least, I don't mean that — only I should like to
be there in case, you know.'

One must learn nursing before one can be of
any use.'

And Helen always turns faint at the sight of
blood,' put in Blanche. ' The other day a man
in the village got dreadfully hurt by a threshing
machine, and of course they insisted upon our
seeing him, as people in that rank of life always

do ; and Helen pushed me into the room first,
and stood close behind me with her eyes shut the
whole time — yon know yon did, Helen.'

'I don't enjoy looking at horrid things,' confessed
Helen; 'but of course I could do it if it
were really necessary.'

I suppose we can all do what we are obliged
to do.' observed Jeanne ' One says things are
impossible ; but they have to be done, and somehow
they are done. This time last year I should
have thought it quite impossible to live as I am
doing now, knowing that Leon is in constant
danger, and not even having a letter from him for
weeks; and yet here I am, you see, and I can eat
and sleep easily enough, and help you to make
petticoats.'

Yes, and flirt with young men, who by
rights should belong to others, too,' poor Helen
may have thought ; but she only said, ' You must
often be anxious in this bitter weather.'

'I try not to think about it; it is no use
imagining things. When I heard last, they were
at Bourges, where at least they would have four
walls and a roof to protect them. I try to hope
they are there stilL'

It was as well that she could not see her

brother at that particular moment. Had lie
been able to do so, there would have been an end
of her petticoat-making for the rest of the afternoon;
for in truth she had never let her mind
dwell much upon the details of campaigning, and
could hardly have borne to think of Leon as
actually suffering from cold or hunger. The
reader, however, being presumably more callous,
will hardly object to turn away for a time from
our heroine, as she sits before the fire with her
needlework in her hand, her cousins' Unending
chatter in her ears, and her own thoughts in her
mind, and to pay a flying visit to two other personages
of the story, who had been out of sight
for some months, and whom he will find working
out their destiny under much less comfortable
circumstances.

Par south of Holmhurst, in wealthy, grape-bearing
Burgundy, the scene, in these last days of
1870, is as wintry as a Siberian view and as
cheerless as the prospects of France. Hill and
valley, field and vineyard, lie buried beneath the
snow. From the sky, leaden overhead, but growing
inky towards the horizon, a few flakes are still
falling, driven before a moaning wind which raises
eddying white columns from the ground as it

sweeps on, and lays bare the boughs of the sparse
trees. Across this melancholy landscape an
enormous railway-train, composed almost entirely
of cattle-trucks and vans, and dragged by two
puffing engines, is slowly, very slowly, making its
way. Gradually it slackens speed, while the leading
engine sends forth a prolonged whistle — for
the signals of a wayside station have just come insight
— and soon it comes to a standstill altogether.
The loosely coupled trucks bump one against the
other ; the hiss of the escaping steam dies away ;
the engines join in one last discordant shriek ;
and then all is still. But ere long a murmur of
growls and maledictions begins to make itself
heard. ' Accursed railways of the devil ! here is
the tenth stoppage in the course of fifteen miles.
If they can't advance, why don't they let us get
out and march!' — ' Nom de Dieu! is it worth
while to bring a man all the way from Perpignan
to freeze to death in a horse-box ? They would
have done better to shoot us all at home ;
it would have been sooner over and have costless.'
— *Ah, when I told you that these station-masters
have all come to a good understanding
with the Prussians ! It is to give their dear
friends time to retreat at their ease that they keep

VOL. III. K

US here starving of hunger and cold.' Lean,
dirty faces peer out through the unglazed apertures
which do duty for windows ; hoarse grumbling
grow louder and louder. ' Go on then —
never mind the signals ! ' — ' Are we to stay here
all night ? ' — ' What are you waiting for ? The
enemy?' — ' Ei avant, sacrehleu ! en avant!'
Finally the wag of the crowd pipes out, in feeble
imitation of the sonorous warning familiar to more
fortunate travellers, ' Les voyageurs pour la ligne de
Bcaanqon^ Belford Berlin, en voiture ! ' Whereat
there is a shrill chorus of laughter, for it does
not take much to amuse the French soldier, and
when want and suffering have done their worst
upon him, his indomitable good humour will still
come bravely to the front.

These men had been already twelve hours
cramped up in their miserable boxes, with nothing
to eat but mouldy biscuit, nothing to drink but
water, and no plentiful supply of either. Some of
them had their fingers and toes frost-bitten, many
were ill, a few dying, or near it. They were an
undisciplined lot for the most part, but they neither
did nor said anything much worse than has
been recorded. In a third-class carriage, near
the front of the train, were a handful of officers —

MADEMOISELLE DE MERSAC. 131

a colonel of cavalry, wrapped in his cloak and
sleeping profoundly ; an engineer, in spectacles ;
a major of artillery ; a fat doctor, and a few
young men wearing a species of uniform which
might have belonged to any branch of the service.
One of the latter put his head out of the window
and hailed a passing guard.

What is it now ? What are wee stopping
for ? '

How should I know ? ' returned the man,
sulkily, with a jerk of his shoulders, and slouched
on to talk to the engine-driver. Officers were
held in no great respect in France in those evil
days ; even their own men did not always take
the trouble to salute them ; and when one is only
a lieutenant in a cor jjs franc ^ one must not be too
punctilious. The snubbed questioner withdrew
his head quite meekly, and sank back upon the
wooden seat with a gesture of mute resignation.

You don't happen to have a cigarette about
you, do you, de Mersac ? ' asked his opposite
neighbour.

Xot I. Astor anything to drink either. Nor
anything to eat, if you come to that.'

'Good. Precisely my own condition. And
the worst of it is that I am much too cold to sleep.'

All that would be nothing if there were any
necessity for it ; but to think that all this time
we might just as well have been at Bourges ! that
we are sent into action almost too weak to sit
upon our horses simply because we are governed
by a set of dolts who imagine that they can despatch
an army from one place to another as
easily as a telegram ! '

Ah, the old story ! Twenty thousand men
are wanted to cut off the Prussian communications
in the east. Nothing easier — make it forty
thousand, so as to leave a margin. March them
all down to the station double-quick ; send off
train after train as fast as they can be got ready ;
get the line hopelessly blocked ; and then trust in
Providence to put things straight somehow or
other, and set to work composing proclamations.
That is the way to carry on war according to the
great citizen Gambetta. I wish I had him here !*

Patience, young men, patience,' said the fat
doctor, placidly. ' Be thankful that you have
still all your limbs about you. You will see the
Germans soon enough, never fear ! '

That we certainly shall not, if we are to
perish of cold in a railway carriage like so many
Hies.' But at this moment another loud whistle

pierced the air ; the train began to move again,
and the jerk awoke the sleeping colonel, who
drew down his legs, rubbed his eyes, and asked,
Where are we ? At Autumn ? '

God knows,' answered the artilleryman.
Are we going to Autumn ? Apropos, M. de Saint-luc,
have you any idea where we are going ? '

Not much. I have my own impressions ;
but I have been told next to nothing officially.'

The report at Bourges was that our destination
was to be Besan9on.'

I don't know what we should do when we
got there.'

The gunner shrugged his shoulders ; but one
of the younger officers struck in eagerly — ' We
should invade Germany — at least that is what
everybody is saying. It is only a question of one
victory after all. We raise the siege of Belfort,
we intercept the enemy's communications, and we
relieve Paris.'

I see.'

There was still a little spirit left among those
who had fought so well and been beaten so often,
a little confidence in their rulers, a lingering grain
of faith in Fortune. Leon and his brother officers
soon forgot all the sufferings of the present in

proving to one another the feasibility of some
such surprise as the gossips of Bourges had prophesied.
Saint-Luc smiled as hastened to them,
but took no part in the discussion. He himself,
knowing something of soldiering and of the state
of Bourbaki's army, had despaired long since ;
but it was not for him to discourage others, nor
was he the less ready to struggle on to the end.

In the meantime,' said he at last, ' let us hope
that our next stoppage may be at a town where
we can get some food for ourselves and for our
horses ; for if we go on at our present pace, we
shall hardly reach Besan9on before the day after
tomorrow.'

Their deliverance, however, was at hand. At
a small wayside station the Declaimers received
orders to leave the train ; and the colonel had his
work cut out for him to collect his men and get
his shivering horses upon terra firma. Some of
the latter had died upon the journey ; others had
to be abandoned ; many of the men were found
unable to stand, and were told to remain where
they were. It was no very formidable body that
moved away at length from the station towards
the village whose name it bore, but which lay
some two miles away from it. Saint-Luc admitted

none but old soldiers into his corps — the nature
of their service as scouts demanding experience as
well as courage — and he had had proofs enough
that those who rode behind him could do and
bear as much as can be expected of mortals ;
nevertheless, as he glanced over his shoulder at
them now, he thanked his lucky stars that there
were no Germans in the immediate neighbourhood.


A handful of Uhlans could make short work
of us,' he thought. ' What is one to do with
starving men on starving horses ? One thing is
certain, they must be fed. I wonder whether
there are any decent people in the village.'

Apparently there was nobody there at all,
decent or otherwise. No trace of an inhabitant
was to be seen in the wide, snow-covered highroad,
or in the low white houses that bordered it ;
pigs and poultry — usually the inseparable adjuncts
of a French village — there were none ; every door
was closed and every endow shuttered ; only
from a chimney here and there arose a tell-tale
thread of blue smoke. Saint-Luc had seen this
kind of thing more than once before, and knew
very well what it all meant. His orders to his
officers were soon given. They were to get what

was necessary — civilly if possible, but at all events
to get it ; they were to pay for everything they
took ; and, above all, they were to lose no time.
He himself rode on, accompanied by Leon, his
adjutant, to a farmhouse a few furlongs out of the
village, where there was an empty straw-yard,
and stables, and outhouses, and a rick or two.
Here much shouting, thundering at the door and
threatening of arson, as a last resource, revealed
the presence of a lean old woman of forbidding
aspect.

What do you want ? ' asked this inhospitable
person sullenly, thrusting her head out of a half-opened
window.

Something to eat, to begin with,' answered
Leon. ' We are not particular ; give us what
you have got and let us go, and we will pay you
a fair price. We have money.'

'Well, then, you will not have what you
want, money or no money! I know you with
your money I Break open the door if you like —
you are the stronger —and eat me, for you will
find nothing else here. And you will not find
much flesh upon my bones, I promise you.'

My good woman,' began Saint-Luc.

Good woman here, good woman there ! I

tell you we have got nothing. Do you understand
? — nothing ! First come, first served. The
Prussians took all we had : then came the
Garibaldians and helped themselves to the rest ;
and now there are but the four walls and the
bare boards left for you.'

I canst waste any more time,' said Saint-Luc.
Tell them to force the door, de Mersac'

Stop, you thieves ! you villains ! Do you
call yourselves Frenchmen, and would you ruin a
poor widow ? I will let you in.'

Bolts and chains were slowly withdrawn ; the
door was gingerly opened an inch or two, and a
skinny hand appeared through the aperture.
Pay first,' said the voice of the old woman from
within.

Saint-Luc laughed, and handed out a couple
of napoleons. ' That will do till we see what
you are going to give us,' said he, pushing past
her into the darkened kitchen, where a fine wood
fire was blazing. ' You might remember that weare
friends, and that we are fighting your battles
for you, old mother.'

'Friends or enemies, it comes to much the
same thing. Ah ! those Garibaldians ! People
who call themselves friends, and rob you of your

last SOU, and use the churches for stables — thank
you ! the Prussians suit me quite as well.'

Nobody is going to rob you said Leon, who
had followed his chief into the house, and was
looking about him with somewhat hungry eyes*
'And why did you tell us those lies ? You peasants
are all the same.'

How was I to know you had money ? ' retorted
his hostess, upon whom the sight of gold
had already produced a slight mellowing effect.
I am not the only one who tells lies in these bad
times, young gentleman. And what I said was
not so far off the truth either. I can kill two or
three fowls for you and the other officer, and
there is a little bacon ; but as for the soldiers, I
could not feed them if you offered me a fortune.
Search the house if you don't believe me.'

Leon took her at her word. There would be
no harm in having a look round, he thought,
while the chickens were roasting, and it was absolutely
necessary that something should be discovered
for the men's eternal soup. French soldiers,
as is well known, have a semi-miraculous
gift for the concoction of that savoury mess out of
the most unpromising materials; and though Leon's
researches were not crowned with any brilliant

success, yet a sufficiency of scraps was ultimately
collected, in the farmhouse and elsewhere, to
furnish what was required, and to restore the
flagging spirits of the whole corps.

They were not hard to please, those gallant,
ragged fellows. Give them soup, a fire to warm
themselves by, and a tumbler or two of rough
red wine, and they asked for nothing more. Enthusiastic
they were no longer ; but they were
patient and willing, accustomed to hard knocks,
hard fare, and scant thanks ; ready for active service
in any form ; and now the rumour that they
were for once about to take the offensive sufficed
in itself to console them for a great deal. None
of them had more than a very vague idea of
where they were and of whither they were going ;
but these were mere matters of detail, and besides
it was nothing new to them to be in the dark as
to their whereabouts. The colonel, never given
to be communicative, disliked being asked questions,
and his officers, knowing this, seldom interrogated
him. When they did so, their curiosity
was not often gratified. Leon, who upon this
occasion ventured to throw out a hint or two, got
no information for his pains.

Warder must be somewhere between Vesoul

and Gray, I take it,' said lie, buckling up his
sword, when the hasty repast was at an end ; ' but
I suppose we shall know all about it before long.
We are off on the old errand of course — feeling
for the enemy to begin with, searching for our
own general afterwards, and thinking ourselves
more than lucky if we find the second as easily
as the first. Well, it is better to be an eclaireur
than a general after all; one obeys orders and
asks no questions — that is simple enough. Only
I should like to know whether our object is to
join Faidherbe or to make a raid into Germany.'

Saint-Luc was standing by the window looking
out at the darkening landscape and the snowflakes,
which were still dropping at intervals and freezing
as they fell.

There are so many things that one would like
to know,' he remarked. 'I should like, for instance,
to know why I was born ; but nobody
will ever be able to tell me that; — and then I
should like to know where I am to sleep to-night,
which is a mystery that will be solved in a few
hours. And I should like to know what certain
people far away are doing at this moment, though
I have no doubt at all that it is a very good thing
for me that I can't. Did it ever occur to you that

if we knew the whole truth about everything,
nine-tenths of us would most likely go and hang
ourselves ? Come, let us get to horse again, and
follow our noses ; and don't you trouble yourself
too much to find out whither the road is leading
you. The more you knew of it the less you would
like it perhaps.'

Already the bugles had sent forth their brief
summons, and the regiment only awaited the
colonel's order to march. A few of the villagers
poverty-stricken, timorous-looking folks — had
emerged from their hiding-places on discovering
that the invaders were Frenchmen this time, not
Prussians nor Garibaldi, and had now come
shivering out into the road to see the last of these
ragged horsemen, and to bid them God-speed.
For good wishes cost nothing ; and if there be
anything that can warm the heart of the French
peasant, it is probably the touch of hard coin.

As the little band began to move with a muffled
trampling over the snow, and the clank of a
sabre or the champing of a bit here and there,
some of the men set up a low, melancholy chant.
It was the familiar strain of the Marseillaise that
they sang ; but what a different Marseillaise from
that which had rung triumphantly and defiantly

throughout the length and breadth of France a
few short months before ! —

Amour sacre de la patrie,
Conduits, soutiens nos bras venders ! '

The chorus spread through the ranks, one man
after another taking it up in a sad perfunctory-sort
of way, and grew fainter and fainter as they
passed out from the village, and wound round the
shoulder of a low hill — a straggling troop of shadowy
riders in long blue cloaks that soon faded
into the gathering darkness.

Would one not say they were a regiment of
ghosts singing their own dirge ? ' muttered the
old woman who had entertained Saint-Luc and
Leon. ' Soldiers were another race in my time.
That colonel is a fine man, but he has not the
look of a joyous comrade. Enjoin ! — puisque ca
paye:

And with that she bolted and barred her door
once more, and sat down to count her earnings.

CHAPTER Xxxi.

BEDFORD SQUARE.

Bedford Square is not a cheerful situation. Miss
Barringtou, who lived there, was always ready to
admit that much. She maintained, however, that
there was no more comfortable, no better-built
house in London than that which had come to herby
inheritance. Its rooms were spacious ; its
staircase was broad and shallow ; there was accommodation
in it for more guests than its mistress
ever cared to invite. The heavy, solid furniture,
the old pictures darkened by many a year of
London smoke, the well-used books in the library,
in their sober, uniform binding of brown calf — all
these would look shabby and out of place in a
more fashionable quarter ; and, in spite of many
an entreaty and remonstrance. Miss Barrington
declined to move them. Bloomsbury suited her
well enough, she said ; and if any of the nephews
and nieces, god-sons and god-daughters, who

honoured her with so much of their attention
found the journey thither from South Kensington
or Belgravia more than they could undertake, why
the alternative course of remaining away was open
to them.

It was on a grey January afternoon that Jeanne
was driven to the door of this hospitable mansion
in the brougham which had been sent to the station
to meet her. Christmas, laboriously merry,
was over and done with ; so, for the time, was life
at Holmhurst, and the society of its well-meaning,
if somewhat commonplace, inmates ; and now our
heroine was about to enter upon fresh experiences,
to be introduced to new faces, and to renew her
acquaintance with one or two already familiar to
her. And, perhaps, the latter prospect was what
she chiefly looked forward to, and may have had
something to do with the cheerfulness of her demeanour.


Some cause for inward rejoicing she must have
had ; for if there be a spectacle in the world calculated
to cause the heart of a foreigner to die
within him, it must surely be that of London as
viewed through the gloom and moisture of a
winter's afternoon; yet Mademoiselle de Mersac
stepped lightly out on to the pavement, while the

footman was making a tremendous and most unnecessary
noise with the door-knocker, and surveyed,
with a smile of universal benevolence the
hideous buildings around her, the miserable bare
trees in the square, the dirty old effigy who looked
down upon her shamefacedly from his stone pedestal,
and the crossing-sweeper who came hurrying
up, hat in hand.

The crossing-sweeper received an unearned
sixpence, much to the disgust of Miss Barrington's
butler, who had now thrown open the double
doors, and presently Jeanne was alone in the
drawing-room upstairs, awaiting the appearance of
her hostess.

She had not long to wait in solitude. But it
was not Miss Barrington who came clattering down
the stairs, burst open the drawing-room door, and
advanced, with both hands outstretched, exclaiming,
* How glad I am that you have come ! Do
you know, I never heard you were expected today
until I came in, about ten minutes ago.'

How do you do, Mr. Barrington ? ' says
Jeanne, as coolly as if she had not been dreaming
of this meeting for the last fortnight. ' Are you
staying here, too, then ? *

What, in this house, do you mean f Oh,

VOL. III. L

no ; I have rooms of my own in London — ever sofar
away, I am sorry to say. I am afraid you
must think my Aunt Susan rather rude for not
being in to receive you ; but she is an oddity, you
know ; no one minds what she does. I got a note
from her this morning, telling me to be here punctually
at four o'clock. I accordingly turned up
at that hour, and was told that she had gone out.
But this house has always been a sort of second
home to me, and I can do just as I like in it ; so I
went upstairs, to a room which has been reserved
for my use ever since I was a boy, and where I
sometimes do a little painting, and so on ; and
there I found a second note to say that you were
coming up from Holmhurst, and that I was to
receive you, and apologise for my aunt's absence.
She is a good old thing,' concluded Barrington,
reflectively. But how her goodness had been
evidenced by this particular line of conduct he
did not state ; and that, no doubt, was Mademoiselle
de Mersac's reason for remaining silent.

I hope you don't mind ? ' resumed Barrington
presently.

Oh, no,' Jeanne said, ' she did not mind at
all.' But, for all that, she was not quite pleased.
It would have been much pleasant, she thought,

if Mr. Barrington lead been invited to dinner, instead
of having been asked to receive her upon
her arrival. And how long would she have to
sit there in her travelling-dress, and with the dust
and the cinders of the railway upon her ?

Perhaps Barrington, who had never removed
his eyes once from her face since his entrance,
may have read there some indication of these
thoughts, for he exclaimed suddenly —

Good gracious me, what a donkey I am !
You would like to take off your hat, would you
not? And then, of course, you will want some
tea. I will ring, and tell them.*

The butler came up in answer to his summons,
and said that tea would be ready in a few
minutes ; and Miss Barrington's maid appearing
in his wake, Jeanne was conducted to her room,
where she remained for what seemed to Barrington
an interminable time.

He roamed about the room during her absence,
sometimes standing with his back to the
fire, sometimes looking absently out of the window
and drumming with his fingers on the pane, picking
up one of the books that lay on the table
every now and then, or pausing to examine some
recent additions to Miss Barrington's store of

l2

hideous and valuable china ; but all the time he
was thinking only of Jeanne. How rejoiced he
was to see that lovely pale face again ; and how
he had missed it! he said to himself with a certain
disquietude, and yet not without some mixture of
satisfaction at the remembrance. He had been
visiting at several country-houses, where he had
been one of a large and very merry party ; he
had spent the greater part of the time in an excellent
hunting country ; he had met the people
whose society he generally enjoyed the most, and
he had found the whole thing an unmitigated
bore. Evidently he could not live without Jeanne.
Yes, it had come to that ; and doubtless, before very
long, it would come to an engagement. ' I can't
lose sight of her again,' mused Barrington, as he
paced to and fro. 'Before she leaves this, the
fatal words must be spoken. Dear, dear, how
funny it will all be ! Fancy her making my tea
for me in the morning, and sewing buttons on to
my shirts ! Oh, bathos ! It will be a great nuisance
having to announce the engagement. How furious
the Ashleyss will be ; and all one's relations too ! '
This set him wondering what could be the
cause of Aunt Susan's conduct in bringing him
and Jeanne together, as she evidently intended todo.

Was it that she was tired of Helen Ashley,
and had seized the first pretext that had come to
hand for throwing her over ? Was it that she
had really taken a fancy to the beautiful stranger ?
Or was she behaving in this way out of pure love
of mischief, and a desire to set everybody by the
ears ? Barrington knew that some such motive had
been at the root of more than one of his aunt's
apparent eccentricities, and he was not disposed
to count over much upon her support now. ' I
can do without her money — that's one thing,'
thought he ; and then his reflections were cut
short by Jeanne's re appearance.

She seated himself beside the low tea-table,
and began to pour out a cup of tea, while Barrington
took a chair opposite to her.

I hope you are not very tired after your
journey,' said he, just by way of opening the
conversation.

Tired ? ' she echoed, with some disdain.
No ; I am not so easily tired as that.'

Of course not ; I forgot. I am so accustomed
to associating with ladies who are more or less
frail and rickety, that I have come to look upon
ordinary good health as the exclusive property of
men. Isn't it an odd thing that hardly anybody

is proud of being strong and well ; whereas lots
of people make a positive boast of their infirmities
? My sister, for instance, would be
desperately offended if I suggested that she could
travel from Sevenoaks to Charing Cross without
being completely knocked up.'

But your sister is really an invalid, is she not? '

I don't know. Aunt Susan says a bucket of
cold water is all she wants ; and I am half inclined
to hold the same opinion. There cannot
be very much the matter with her, or she would
have succumbed long ago to one of the violent
courses of medical treatment she has been through.
However, you will probably see her for yourself
before long, and then you will be able to form
your own judgment upon her. You won't like
her, I know.'

How can you tell that ? '

Oh, she is not the sort of person whom you
would be in the least inclined to put up with. I
bear with her partly because she is my sister, and
partly because I am of a tolerant nature, and
don't expect any very near approach to perfection
from anybody. But we won't waste time in
talking about her. What is the news down at
Holmhurst ? '

I don't think there is any news,' replied
Jeanne, considering. ' Everybody is quite well,
except my uncle, who '

Who has got the gout from drinking too
much port wine during Christmas week. I
know. He always does. It is a part of his annual
programme, and he would not relinquish it for
worlds. And I will venture to affirm that Mrs.
Ashley's clothing-club has got into debt, and
that the girls have two or three dances in
prospect, and that one or more of the dogs has
died of distemper. All these events come round
as regularly as the month of January itself.
Apropos, how did you leave my friend Turco ? '

I did not leave him at all,' answered Jeanne.
I brought him with me.'

You doit mean to tell me that my Aunt
Susan has actually invited a dog into her house ! '
exclaimed Barrington, with raised eyebrows of astonishment.
' You must indeed have won her heart.'

She did not exactly invite him to the house,'
Jeanne explained. ' I left him at the stables, on
my way here. He will be rather troublesome, I
am afraid, for unless he has exercise he always
gets ill ; so I shall have to take him for a walk
somewhere every day.'

Quite right. I'll go with you,' observed
Barrington, cheerfully.

Oh, no, thank you,' returned Jeanne, with a
sudden chilly change in her voice ; ' that will not
be at all necessary.'

I beg your pardon, but it will be most absolutely
necessary. Young ladies can't walk about
London alone, especially if they happen to be
accompanied by a dog the size of a pony. Besides,
you would lose yourself before you had walked a
quarter of a mile.'

I lose myself ! ' cried Jeanne, indignantly.
What an idea ! I should be ashamed to lose
myself in a town. Why, even among the mountains
in Algeria, where it is not very easy to distinguish
one pass or valley from another, I could
always find my way from place to place alone. I
carry a little compass on my watch-chain ; and as
soon as I have — I do not know how to say it in
English — une fois que je vie suis oriental — I am
quite at my ease.'

I'm afraid you won't find that system answer
very well in London,' said Barrington, laughing.

Why not ? ' inquired Jeanne, loftily. She
did not like being laughed at.

Oh, well, for one thing, you wouldn't be able

to steer a straight course, don't you see ? You
can't go over the tops of the houses, so you would
be obliged to follow the streets, and the compass
would come out at every corner. You had much
better take me with you, and I will show you the
most direct route to the parks — which, by the
way, are an enormous distance from this quarter
and then, when your dog has chased the waterfowl
and worried the sheep, I shall be at hand to
plead your cause with the park-keeper, who will
come up to give you in charge.'

'Turco never does such things,' answered
Jeanne, really a little offended. ' And I can find
my way very well alone, thank you. I like walking
alone.'

At this moment Miss Barrington came in ; and
as soon as the proper amount of greeting, inquiry,
and apology had been gone through, Barrington
reverted to the controversy which her entrance
had interrupted.

'Aunt Susan, is it the proper thing for a
young lady to walk about the streets of Bloomsbury
alone and unprotected ? '

'I don't know, I'm sure. I used to do it
when I was young, and nobody ever bothered me ;
but no doubt it would be wiser for you to take

care of Mademoiselle de Mersac when she goes
out, if that is what you mean.'

'Mademoiselle de Mersac refuses to let me
accompany her,' answered Barrington. ' She proposes
to penetrate into the heart of London with
the aid of a compass and a big dog, and she
laughs me to scorn when I suggest the possibility
of her losing her way. It is easy to see what
that kind of pride is likely to lead to. A gloomy
cell in the nearest police station, mademoiselle,
will be your fate. After a night of horrors, you
will be led before a stern and pitiless old man,
who will disbelieve every word you say, and denounce
your conduct in terms which will make
your blood curdle. You will be ordered to pay a
fine, and as you are sure to have no money in
your pocket, you will be cast into prison for seven
days. Your dog will be dragged away, with a
halter round his neck, and '

That is nonsense,' interrupted Jeanne, gravely.

Aunt Susan, I appeal to you. Is there anything
improbable about this slight prophetic
sketch ? Is it likely that a dog, unaccustomed to
London life, will be able to pass through all the
temptations of the metropolis without getting himself

and others into trouble ? Think of the mute
lying, all handy, at the butcher's, and
the other dogs to be fought with, and the perambulators
to be bowled over, and the prowling
roughs whom it would seem a positive duty to
tackle. I declare, if I were you, I would not
allow a young lady under my charge to go about
in such dangerous company for any consideration.
That is, unless she had a prudent and experienced
person with her to get her out of scrapes;

Turco is never disobedient ; and as for stealing
from a butcher, he would not even dream of
such a thing. I have always been able to take
care of myself, and I always intend to do so,'
said Jeanne decisively.

Well, settle it between you,' said Miss Barrington,
with a short laugh. ' I must go and
Write some letters now. Stay to dinner, you
know, if you like, Harry ; there will be nobody
but ourselves.'

I have asked a man to dine with me at the
club — what a bore ! ' murmured Barrington, regretfully,
as the door closed behind his aunt.
But I shall see you some time tomorrow, I hope.
Of course you will have to be shown all the sights

of London ; and if I am to be allowed to do
nothing else for you, I trust you will at least let
me act as your guide to them.'

I suppose there is a great deal to be seen
remarked Jeanne, a little apprehensively.

An immensity. Take architecture alone.
There is the National Gallery, and Buckingham
Palace, and St. Thomas's Hospital, and the church
at the end of Bingham Place, and many other remarkable
buildings, all very striking in their way,
and some absolutely unique in style. Then you
will naturally want to climb to the top of the
Monument, and likewise to the top of St. Paul's.
The Zoological Gardens, the Underground Railway,
and Madame Tussaud's will all repay a visit.
After that there will be the British Museum, the
Crystal Palace, the '

But must I really see all these things ? ' interrupted
Jeanne, in dismay.

Of course not. You ought to have a look at
Westminster; but there is nothing else worth
seeing in London just now, that I know of, excepta
picture of Gerome's, which is in the French
Artists' Gallery in Pall Mall. You did not come
to England to admire French art, you will say ;
but unhappily we have none of our own to show

you. That astounding exhibition, the Eoyal Academy,
is not open at this time of year, and if it
were, I am afraid you might search it through and
through without coming across even an embryo
Gerome. French art is, and doubtless always
will be, immeasurably superior to ours ; and the
reasons are not far to seek. In the first place,
our painters habitually degrade themselves in
their choice of subjects. They paint what will
sell. They bow to the crude, vulgar taste of the
purchaser, instead of trying to elevate it. Then,
again '

But it is perhaps hardly necessary to follow
Mr. Barrington through the lengthy disquisition
in which he thought fit to indulge upon this not
very novel subject.

The next morning being a fine frosty one, and
Miss Barrington having gone out upon business
directly after breakfast, Mademoiselle de Mersac
judged that the opportunity had now come for
her to display her knowledge of locality and her
independence of officious protection. Without
any difficulty she found her way to the mews
where she had left her dog on the previous afternoon,
and was at once recognised by Miss Barrington's
coachman, who touched his hat, opened

the stable-door for her, and, in reply to her inquiry,
told her that she would find Hyde Park
easily enough.

It's a goodish way, miss, but you can't make
no mistake about it. Must turn to your right,
then must to your left, then to your right again, into
a very fine, long street, and after that you've only
got to walk straight on, as fur as you can go, till
you see the Park afore you.'

Nothing could be plainer. ' I am much
obliged to you,' said Jeanne, setting off at once,
and remembering, with some inward amusement,
Barrington's prophetic warnings. It was scarcely
within the limits of possibility, she thought, that
she should make any mistake in following such
simple directions as these.

Many a pedestrian turned to look curiously
after her, as she went on her way through the
smoke-dimmed atmosphere, a tall, erect, black-draped
figure, with her great white dog following
at her heels ; but both she and Turco were accustomed
to being stared at, and never heeded the
gaze of the vulgar multitude. One of them,
indeed, was too busy making use of her own eyes
to notice whether those of others were fixed upon
her or not.

What dirty streets ! What hideous houses !
What a stifling, choking air ! ' she was thinking to
herself. ' No wonder all the people look so pale.
If I were Miss Barrington, I would not live here
for the sake of any house, however comfortable.
I wonder where the fashionable quarter is, and
whether I shall pass through it before I reach the
Park.'

While she was thus musing, she found her
path suddenly barred by a double hne of cabs,
omnibuses, and carts. There was a momentary
stoppage ; then the stream flowed on, and Jeanne,
crossing hurriedly to the opposite pavement— for
she was not quite at home amid the noisy traffic
of a large town — pursued her way through a
somewhat less crowded district. It was Oxford
Street that she had left behind her, having altogether
failed to recognise in it that imposing
thoroughfare of which Miss Barrington's coachman
had spoken, and having, in fact, before her
mind's eye a vision of a broad, straight boulevard,
at the end of which, in the far distance, the trees
of Hyde Park might probably be discernible.
But as she went on, and on, and the streets narrowed
instead of widening, and the noise of hoofs
and wheels grew ever fainter, she began to perceive

that she must have made some mistake.
She paused, and went over again in her mind the
directions the man had given her. The first turn
to the right, and the first, after that, to the left,
she remembered to have taken. And then he
had told her to turn to the right again, when she
came to a fine, long street, which, apparently, she
had somehow missed. It was evident, however,
that Hyde Park must lie to her right hand, due
west of her, and that if she set her face in that
direction, and walked straight on, she must eventually
strike it at one point or another.

This conclusion being beyond question, Jeanne
proceeded to act upon it. She turned off at right
angles to the street in which she had been
standing, and immediately plunged into the midst
of the most miserable, squalid, horrible collection
of human dwellings she had ever beheld in her
life. On either side of her were dirty, dilapidated
houses, whose tenants must have been of a very
destructive habit, judging from the amount of
broken window-panes among them that were
covered with scraps of paper or stuffed up with
filthy rags. The street itself was Uttered with
orange-peel, cabbage-stalks, and refuse of all
kinds. A drunken old man was standing in the

middle of it, his hands in his pockets, his eyes
half closed, as he swayed from side to side, muttering
to himself and laughing idiotically. A
couple of bare-armed, touzle-headed viragoes
were leaning out of an upper window, laughing
too, but in harsh, cracked voices that had little
sound of merriment in them. Jeanne hurried on.

After a time she came to a corner where two
or three dirty, greasy-looking men were lounging
round a post, and of one of them she boldly
asked her way ; but he glancing up at her with
bloodshot eyes full of suspicion, and an infinite
suppressed ferocity in his rejoinder, ' Way to
wheel ? ' she fairly lost heart, and walked away,
as fast as she could, without uttering another
word.

On she went, through narrow streets which
seemed to lead only to a limitless succession of
similar ones ; round many a sharp corner, and
into more than one cul de sac, whence she had to
retrace her steps, with an ever-increasing feeling
of doubt as to whether she would ever be able to
discover again the road by which she had entered
into this labyrinth. She was getting a little
frightened now — not, indeed, of the few people
whom she met, and who, for the most part,

VOL. III. M

scarcely took the trouble to raise their eyes from
the ground to look at her; but of some vague
danger that seemed to be in the air. And certainly
there was something rather trying to the nerves in
the silence that hung over this densely-populated
district — a silence broken only by the sound of
shuffling footsteps or of occasional hoarse, muffled
voices, and intensified by the ceaseless roar of the
traffic outside its limits, which rose and fell like
breakers on a distant, shingly bar. Jeanne could
not divest her mind of a shuddering conviction
that presently one of these grim, mute tenements
would burst into life, that from it would rush a
gang of ruffians, and that, before she should have
time to cry for help, she woukl be pinioned,
gagged, robbed — perhaps murdered.

It was quite a relief when somebody came
down the street, whistling a popular air cheerily,
and breaking off, every now and then, to pipe out
a few words of the chorus in a loud, shrill voice.
Jeanne made for him at once.

Will you be so good as to direct me to Hyde
Park ? ' said she, in her best English.

'Hyde Park, miss.? Certainly, miss. You
come along o' me, I'll put you straight in the way.
'Army ' (to an acquaintance who was loitering on

the other side of the street), ' I shall 'ave to bid
you good morning; I'm a-going' to walk in the
Park with this 'ere young lady.'

He was a thin, undersized creature, whether
boy or man it was not easy to determine. His
clothes, which were of the poorest description,
seemed to have been originally the property of a
Hercules, so loosely did they hang upon his skinny
person. His boots — also several sizes too large
for him — scarcely held together ; and from time
to time he coughed in a way that it made Jeanne
quite miserable to hear.

As he slouched along by her side, jerking his
shoulders with every step, she looked down at
the queer, wizened little face beneath his fur cap,
and a sudden impulse made her ask, 'Are you
hungry ? '

I ham miss,' he replied, with emphasis.
Four days and four nights it is since I've 'ad a
morsel o' bread to put in me — let alone meat or
spirits.'

That cannot be true,' said Jeanne, unhesitatingly.
She had seen famine times in Algeria,
and knew pretty well the effect of hunger in its
various stages upon the human subject.
. Her guide did not allow himself to be at all

disconcerted. If he was not starving, he said, he
was at all events hungry; and he proceeded to
relate so harrowing a tale of the temptations that
beset a well-meaning young man who is without
visible means of subsistence in London that in a
very short time Jeanne had promised to give him
ten shillings if he would agree, on his side, to
associate no more with thieves and to try and
obtain some honest work. This engagement he
entered into quite readily, confirming it with asseverations
of the most solemn character ; and as
they were now once more in the region of cabs,
he strongly recommended the young lady to take
a four-wheeler, adding that he himself would be
glad to retire, as there was a policeman in those
parts with whom he was not upon terms of friendship.


Good-bye, then,' said Jeanne, ' and thank
you for bringing me so far. Here is '

A pause. Jeanne's hand was slowly withdrawn
from her pocket.

What shall I do ! ' she exclaimed. ' My
purse is gone ! '

You don't say so, miss ! Wot, yer purse
gone ? — likewise yer pocket-handkerchief, I repose ?
Dear, dear, dear ! that's wot it is to walk about

iu a low quarter. They are a terrible bad lot
'hereabouts, miss, and that's the truth.'

But nobody ever brushed up against me
even protested Jeanne, still bewildered by her
loss.

Don't you believe it, miss ! They're that
artful you wouldn't 'hardly know nothing about
it if they was to take the 'at off your 'eat.'

Well, it cannot be helped. I should not
mind so much, only now I have not ten shillings
to give you.'

I beg you won't mention that, miss.'

Oh, but I must keep my promise ; and if you
will come to Number 63 Bedford Square this
afternoon, I will certainly give you the ten shillings.
Oh ! — where's my dog ? '

Dog, miss ? I didn't see no dog.'

You must have seen him — a big white dog —
he was following me when I met you. Oh, what
shall I do ? '

How do you do, Mademoiselle de Mersac ?
And pray, if one may ask, what has brought you
to the Seven Dials ? '

Jeanne turned round, and found the grey eyes
of Mr. Leigh scrutinising her with an expression
of some amusement.

Oh, Mr. Leigh,' she exclaimed, ' I have had
such a misfortune I I have lost my dog. What
had I better do, do you think ? '

There is nothing to be done, except to advertise
a reward for him. You will be sure to get
him back in a day or two. It would be quite
useless to search St. Giles's for him. But how do
you come to be here at all ? '

I set out to walk to the Park,' Jeanne explained
; ' and somehow I lost my way, and really
I do not think I should ever have been heard of
again if it had not been for this boy — where is
he ? Oh, now he is gone too ! What a very odd
and disagreeable place London seems to be ! '

The boy and the dog disappeared together, I
suspect ? '

Oh, no ! I missed Turco while I was still
talking to him ; and besides, he is to come to
Bedford Square this afternoon, to be paid for
showing me the way. For I have lost my purse
also,' concluded Jeanne, looking rather ashamed
of herself.

Then you may depend upon it that the boy
has got your purse as well as your dog, and I
shall be very much astonished if you ever see him
again.'

Poor boy ! ' sighed Jeauue. ' He said he was
a thief.'

Capital ! And so your sympathies were
aroused, and no doubt you would have given him
all the money you had with you, if he had not
helped himself to it already. That's just the sort
of way Barrington gets done. I left him, a few
minutes ago, talking Italian very loud to a dirty
little wretch of an organ-grinder, with an admiring
assembly elbowing him. I remained for a
short time while they jabbered, and shook their
fingers at each other, and then, as I didn't want
to have my pocket picked, I walked on. Shall
we wait for him ? He was on his way to call
upon you, I believe.'

Oh, I would rather not wait ! I shall go
home now if you will be so kind as to call 2^ fiacre
for me,' answered Jeanne, feeling that she could
not brave an interview with Barrington after so
speedy a fulfilment of his predictions.

Very well. Hullo ! — get down, you brute ! '

This last apostrophe was addressed to a
large white dog, with a fragment of rope round
his neck, who had suddenly darted out of a
side street, and who, after knocking Mr. Leigh
off the pavement, was now alternately leaping

up to Jeanne's shoulders and cringing at her
feet.

'Ah coquin! — mauvais drove — vas cried
Jeanne, indignantly. ' I am obliged to scold
him,' she explained, ' or else he would allow
himself to be enticed away again. Do you see
how he is licking his lips ? I know very well how
they managed to steal him.'

He has probably killed somebody,' observed
Leigh ; ' your interesting little boy, I dare say.
Well, it would serve him right. Here comes
Barrington, all smiles. I think I could afford to
lay a shade of odds that that organ-grinder has got
a sovereign out of him. I say, Barrington, could
you oblige me with the loan of a pound or so ? '

My dear fellow, I can't. I have just given
away the last penny, — what are you laughing
at ? And where has Mademoiselle de Mersac
sprung from ? And, oh, Turco, my esteemed
friend, is that a rope that I see about your neck ?
What in the world has been happening ? '

Explanations followed, at the end of which
Jeanne found herself somehow being whirled
along in a hansom, with Barrington by her side,
and Turco between them. Poor Mr. Leigh had
presumably been left in the street, to go home.

or do with himself what he pleased. Neither
Jeanne nor Barrington wasted another thought
upon him.

Another time,' the latter was saying, ' you
will believe, perhaps, that I know something
about the dangers of London. It is the greatest
mercy in the world that you did not wander into
some worse place than you did. There are
plenty of streets in London out of which you certainly
would not have been allowed to escape
with your watch and rings. I do hope you will
not attempt any more journeys of discovery.'

Oh, no ! ' answered Jeanne, with a slight
shudder. ' I shall never wish to be alone in the
streets of this horrible town again. But it is very
disagreeable to be obliged always to take someone
with you when you walk out.'

Very ; but I'm afraid there is no help for it.
We need not speak to each other, you know,
unless you like.'

Jeanne did not understand anything in the
form of ' chaff,' which, indeed, is a product indigenous
to British soil.

That would be very absurd,' she answered,
seriously. Then, after a moment's hesitation, ' I
do not know anything of English customs,' she

added. ' With us it would not be considered
convenable that I should go about with you like
this. In the country it was perhaps a little different
; but here '

Aunt Susan approves of it,' replied Barrington
; ' and I can assure you that Aunt Susan
never violates the proprieties. And, besides, weare
such old friends.'

Yes,' answered Jeanne, rather absently. And
after that not another word was said until the
hansom drew up in Bedford Square.

A carriage was standing before Miss Barrington's
door, from which a lady was deliberately
alighting with the assistance of a gentleman on
one side and a footman on the other.

It is the Secours — my sister and her husband,
you know,' Barrington said, rather ruefully.
They are come to lunch. What an awful, awful
bore ! Well, Amelia, how are you to-day ? How
do, Seymour ? '

I am very much out of sorts,' Mr. Seymour
was beginning ; but his wife broke in, before he
had half finished his sentence, with —

'Harry, what are you doing in London at
this time of year ? I thought you never, by any
chance, came up before May.

Oh, yes, I do ! ' answered Barrington, looking
a little annoyed. ' Of course I do. Why, I am
always coming up to have my hair cut — and
things. I want to introduce you to Mademoiselle
de Mersac, who is staying with Aunt Susan.
Seymour, let me introduce you to Mademoiselle
de Mersac'

Mr. Seymour made a clutch at his hat. He
was a little, woebegone, colourless man, with
watery blue eyes and thin whiskers, which hung
dejectedly down from his hollow cheeks.

'You must find this climate very trying,
coming from the warm south,' he said in a plaintive,
sing-song voice.

Mrs. Seymour, tall, hook-nosed, lackadaisical,
and very expensively dressed, said nothing, except,
How do you do? ' and stood, with her head on
one side, leaning lightly against the area railings.
What Mrs. Seymour was thinking was,
This will never, never do ! What can Aunt
Susan be thinking of to let Harry go driving
about with that too lovely girl ! And he who is
so susceptible too ! This must be put a stop to at
once.'

And then the door was opened, and they all
went into the house together.

CHAPTER XXXV.

m WHICH Barrington DISPLAYS MUCH TACT.

Well, Amelia,' said Miss Barrington, as she
took her place at the head of the luncheon table,
and how are you ? Very ill, I suppose, eh ? '

Thank you, I have been particularly well
lately — for me,' answered Mrs. Seymour, in a
feeble, drawling voice. ' I am not free from pain,
of course ; but that is nothing. You, I know,
never believe in anybody's being ill unless they
have small-pox, or typhus fever, or something of
that kind.'

/ have been miserably seedy the last few
days,' began Mr. Seymour, but nobody noticed
him ; so he sighed, and relapsed into silence.

Well, you know, Amelia,' Miss Barrington
was saying, ' I have always maintained that imagination
has more to do with most illnesses than is
generally supposed. I have noticed that people
who haven't time to be ill always manage to keep

in good health. Look at statesmen, and judges,
and barristers in large practice, for instance. You
never hear of one of them being kept to his room,
unless it is by a touch of the gout.'

Oh, but they are picked men, you know ;
otherwise they would not be where they are,' protested
Mr. Seymour.

Perhaps so ; but that would not prevent
them having occasional colds, and headaches, and
so on, like the rest of the world. They don't
think about them, that's all. Don't you know
that it is an acknowledged fact that by fixing
your whole mind upon your little finger for an
hour, you can make it ache most horribly ? And
then everybody has heard of the man who was
taken into what they told him was the cholera
ward in the hospital, and who incontinently took
the cholera, and died, though there had not been
a single case of it in the town up to that time.
And there was the man whom they bled to death
at Berlin, by blindfolding him, pricking his arm
with a pin, and letting drops of warm water
trickle slowly down it, assuring him, all the time,
that he was gradually sinking. Never mind,
Amelia, don't be offended. Have a mutton-chop.*


^-: ' No, thank you ' (with a slight shudder).

Curry, then? Oh, no, of course you can't
sat curry. Ernest, will you see if there is anything
on the table that your wife can eat ? '
' I really — I am afraid — it's of no consequence,

you know, but ' stammered Mr. Seymour,

deprecatingly.

My dear Ernest, don't apologise. Being the
bell, Harry, and we will order something suitable
for invalids. What shall it be, Amelia ? Beef-tea?'


\ ' Oh, clear no, thank you,' murmured Mrs.
Seymour, with half-closed eyes. I have not been
able to stand beef-tea for montis. Pray don't
trouble about me.'

Well, you can't live without nourishment of
some sort or kind,' observed Miss Barrington.
'Tapioca pudding ? — toast-ands water ? — gruel ? —
Du Barry's Eevalenta Arabica ? — Cockle's pills ? —
only tell us what you are accustomed to sustain
life upon, and I have no doubt Bloomsbury will
be able to produce it in a quarter of an hour.'
^ Finally Mrs. Seymour said she thought she
would manage a cup of tea and a biscuit ; and
then Miss Barrington turned to Jeanne.

So you have been out for a walk already, I

hear,' said she. ' Where did Carry pick you up ?
At the police-station, as he predicted ? '

No ; it has not been quite so bad as that,'
answered Jeanne, smiling ; ' but I have been very
much frightened, and I shall never walk out in
London alone again. I lost my way almost immediately,
and found myself in a terrible part of
the town, where they stole my purse and tried to
steal Tiirco, and from which I should never have
escaped, I believe, if it had not been for '

Harry, of course,' interrupted Miss Barrington,
with one of her short laughs.

No ; a ragged little boy — or man — I could
not say which he was, who showed me the way
back to a street where there were cabs, and then
ran off, without waiting to be paid. I told him
to call here this afternoon, because I had lost my
purse, and had nothing to give him ; but Mr.
Leiu'h thinks he will not come.'

I don't know,' said Barrington, reflectively.
Having already possessed himself of your purse,
he may very probably feel a hankering after your
watch also. I should say he will tm-n up, as
likely as not, in the course of the day, keep you
engaged in interesting conversation, while he slips
.any little articles of value that may happen to belying

handy into his pocket, and takes a few
mental notes of the arrangements of the house, so
that he and some fellow-ruffians may the more
easily make their way into it tomorrow night,
and empty the plate-chest.'

All right,' said Miss Barrington. ' Let him
show himself here, and he shall be handed over
to the police.'

Then I hope he will not come,' said Jeanne.
'I should be sorry to get him into trouble.
I dare say he is a thief, but I don't think it was
he who tried to steal Turco ; and could you expect
any boy to be honest, living in that terrible
place ? It made me feel quite ill only to see it,
and to breathe the air.'

No ! — did it ? ' exclaimed Mr. Seymour,
eagerly. ' How did it make you feel ? A sort
of swimming in the head, and then a trembling
about the knees, and then a dreadful access of
nausea? Was that it? Now this is very interesting
; because I experienced precisely the
same sensations myself, some years ago, when an
old school-fellow of mine, who has a living in the
East of London, insisted upon taking me into some
of the courts and alleys of his parish. It was
really too horrible ! Nothing but a strong effort

of will kept me from fainting away ; and when
we got out, I said at once — " My dear fellow," I
said, " here's ten pounds ; and when you want
more, you know, I shall always be delighted to
help you to the best of my poor ability. But you
must never expect me to do this again — you
really must not." And then I went home, and
was exceedingly unwell all night. It is curious
how anything in the form of a bad smell upsets
me directly. I recollect once — it was very
awkward — I was walking with a lady in Some,
and we came to a place where they were cleaning
out a sewer. I simply turned my head away, and
was violently sick. I apologised, of course, and
felt dreadfully ashamed of myself ; but really it
was no fault of mine.'

How very unpleasant ! I wish you would
reserve these charming reminiscences for sometime
when one does not happen to be eating,
Ernest,' said Miss Barrington.

Whereupon Mr. Seymour meekly begged pardon,
and said no more. He was accustomed to
snubs from all quarters, and did not much mind
them now.

You have not told us yet where you met
Harry,' said Mrs. Seymour, suddenly straightening
VOL. III. N

herself up in her chair. And Jeanne wondered
why this languid, die-away lady should look at
her so oddly.

I do not know where it was,' she replied.
It was in a street— or rather in a sort of dirty
little place '

Seven Dials, Amelia, if you insist upon accuracy,'
put in Barrington.

And I was talking to Mr. Leigh, whom I
had just met, and wondering how I should get
back here. And then Mr. Barrington came up ;
and so we took a street carriage, and returned.'

I see,' said Mrs. Seymour drily, and sank back
in her chair again. She could not have said ' I
disapprove ' more plainly.

Nobody spoke for a minute ; and then Miss
Barrington broke the silence by asking Jeanne if
she was fond of music, ' because,' said she, ' I
took three tickets some tie ago for a concert
that is to be given to-day, meaning them for you
and myself, and for anybody else who might turnup
— Harry, perhaps. And now I don't see how
I can possibly contrive to go there, for I must be
five miles away from St. James's Hall at half-past
four. But I should like you to go, if it could be
managed. It will be something for you to do,

and there will be some really good music.
Any, I wish you would take Mademoiselle de
Mersac'

I should like nothing better,' answered Barrington.
But he could not help looking a little
surprised ; and Mrs. Seymour's forehead became
lined with horizontal wrinkles.

Don't make faces, Amelia dear,' said Miss
Barrington, quietly. ' Of course I meant that you
should go to.'

/ go to a concert ! My dear Aunt Susan !
Really!'

Mrs. Seymour's voice rang out quite clear and
strong, so deep was her sense of the want of common
feeling implied in such a proposition.

Then Ernest shall go.'

A deprecating murmur from Mr. Seymour
died away unheeded.

Yes, that will be the best plan. Somebody
really must go, you know ; it would be absurd to
pay for three tickets and never use them. Ernest,
my dear fellow, it will do you all the good in the
world. You will enjoy yourself immensely once
you are in the concert room. You. shall be driven
there in the carriage, and you can keep both the
windows up, if you like ; and when you arrive

there, you know, you can roll yourself up in
great-coats and rugs and things ; and I have got
an old black velvet skull-cap upstairs, which used
to belong to my father, and which I will lend you
for the afternoon. Altogether, I think you will
have quite a treat. The carriage will be round
in a quarter of an hour, Mademoiselle Jeanne, soif
you want to change your dress, we will excuse
you.'

Jeanne took advantage of this permission ; and
when she came downstairs again, she found the
small party assembled in the drawing-room. Mrs.
Seymour was lying on the sofa with her eyes
closed. Her husband, carefully wrapped up, was
looking dismally out of the window ; and Barrington
was holding a whispered colloquy with his
aunt.

Now you may as well make a start,' said the
latter, briskly. ' Good-bye, all of you ; and I
shall expect you at dinner, remember, Harry.'
And so the trio went downstairs. But just as
they were leaving the house. Miss Barrington's
voice was heard again, from the landing, calling,
Harry ! Harry ! '

What's the matter, Aunt Susan ? '

I only wanted to remind you that, in case

Ernest faints during the performance, there is a
nice pump on the cab-stand outside — quite handy.'

I must confess,' observed Mr. Seymour, with
a somewhat heightened colour, as the carriage
drove away from the door, ' that I find it a little
difficult to be amused by your aunt's jokes.
They may be very funny, but I am unable to see
it. Perhaps, though, that may be because I am
too advanced in life ; for her pleasantries always
strike me as being, like the grammars and atlases
one sees advertised, specially adapted for the use
of schools.'

And with this mild shaft of sarcasm, the ill-used
Ernest leant back upon the carriage-cushions,
and fell into a moody silence. Only once in the
course of the afternoon did he address Jeanne
again, and that was to recur to the same subject.

I am very glad Miss Barrington is not with
us,' he said. * If she had been, I should hardly
have been able to stand this heat and noise. She
means well ; but really her ways of going on are
too, too trying to the nerves. Amelia and I think
it our duty to go and see her occasionally ; but I
can assure you that the duty is a most painful
one to me.'

Poor Mr. Seymour had been ridden over

rough-shod by Miss Barrington ever since his
marriage. He had never attempted to withstand
her, and only sometimes, if he were goaded beyond
endurance, took refuge in flight from her
presence. Angela, however, was somewhat less
submissive : and was, indeed, at this very moment,
engaged in taking the terrible Aunt Susan to task
in a tone which her husband would never have
dared to use.

I think it is foolish, Aunt Susan,' she was
saying. ' Of course you can do as you like ; but
if you ask my opinion, I must give it, and I think
it is foolish.'

I don't remember having asked your opinion,
my dear.'

You asked me what I thought of the girl.'

Yes ; and you said she was pretty. "Pretty,"
indeed ! Why she is simply one of the most
beautiful creatures I ever saw in my life ! And
upon the strength of her being " pretty," you proceed
to call me a fool for having her in the
house.'

'I never said that, Aunt Susan. T said I
thought it foolish to let her drive about London
alone with Harry. And I think so still.'

Mrs. Amelia had a good supply of quiet obstinacy

always at command. As she fell back
upon the sofa-cushions, and shut her eyes, there
came a certain look into lier face which Miss
Barrington knew well, and which convinced her
that farther argument would be thrown away
upon this stubborn invalid.

Well, well,' she said, ' it is not a matter of
any very great importance. I don't suppose
either of them can have got much harm from
driving in a hansom from St. Giles's to Bedford
Square.'

Oh, no, very likely not. Only I think, for
the girl's own sake, that it is a pity to allow that
kind of thing to go on. And Harry is so impulsive.'


Not he, my dear ! Susceptible he may be ;
but if ever there was a man who habitually looked
before he leaped, that man is your brother. A
little more impulsiveness would do him no harm.'

Well, Aunt Susan, I can do no more than warn
you. If any trouble comes of this -'

Now, Amelia, I am not going to be lectured.
I like having beautiful things and beautiful people
about me ; and I don't see why I shouldn't gratify
my taste when I can — and that is not every day,
let me tell you. Harry is old enough to take care

of himself; and as for Mademoiselle de Mersac,
she is engaged to be married. So you see there
is no necessity for your fretting yourself into an
illness on account of either of them.'

Oh, well, if she is engaged, that is another
thing. But are you quite sure about it? '

Perfectly sure. I am not such a fool as I
look, my good Amelia; and I should have thought
you might have known me better than to suppose
that I should take up so dangerous a pastime as
match-making at my time of life.'

This speech was a trifle disingenuous ; but it
had the desired effect of quieting Mrs. Seymour,
who, shortly after this, fell asleep on her sofa,
and was left, without any ceremony, by her
hostess.

Late that same evening, when Barrington,
who had dined in Bedford Square, and had spent
a long time in the drawing-room after dinner, had
at last said 'Good-night,' Miss Barrington took
Jeanne's breath away by saying abruptly, and
without any introductory observations — 'If I
were you, I should throw over that Frenchman.'

I cannot,' answered Jeanne, in an odd, despairing
sort of tone. She had been taken by
surprise, and spoke as she would hardly have

done if she had had a moment of warning ; but
the other did not notice — or, at all events, did not
seem to notice — anything unusual in her manner.

Oh, dear me, yes, you can,' she rejoined.
I'll tell you what you can't do : you can't get rid
of a man when once you are married to him —
unless, of course, he beats you, and runs away
with somebody else's wife, and even then your
Church won't set you free of him. Well, it's no
business of mine. Good-night, my dear.'

And so this imprudent old woman went off to
bed, having succeeded in sowing such a crop of
disturbing thoughts as effectually banished sleep
from her guest's pillow for the best part of the
night.

Barrington went to his club, and finding Mr.
Leigh, as he had expected, in the smoking-room,
threw himself down in an easy-chair beside that
good-natured gentleman, and said — ' Leigh, old
chap, I want you to come with me to Kew
Gardens tomorrow.'

Good Lord ! Kew Gardens! What on earth
for? What do they keep in Kew Gardens?
Monkeys and things ? '

Upon my word, Leigh, you ought to be
ashamed of yourself. If you never saw the hothouses

at Kew, it is high time that you should
be shown them. I am going there tomorrow,
with my aunt and Mademoiselle de Mersac,
and you shall come too, and make up the partie
carrie!

No, I won't— I'll be hanged if I will ! ' returned
Mr. Leigh, with some warmth. ' Why
the deuce should I be put to stew for hours in a
greenhouse with an old woman, because you want
to carry on one of your interminable flirtations ?
You may look out for somebody else ; I'm not
going with you.'

Now, now, Leigh, don't be rude, and don't
lose your temper. It will open your mind to seethe
Gardens ; and as for my aunt, she is universally
admitted to be (ene of the most entertaining
old ladies in England.'

Hate old ladies, and don't want my mind
opened,' returned Leigh, concisely, blowing out a
cloud of smoke, and watching it drift slowly upwards.
'How abominably badly ventilated this
room is ! '

Yes, it is unhealthy ; and you are here a
great deal too much. A little suburban air would
do you no end of good. Come now, old man,
you might as well be accommodating for once.'

Dash it all ! I'm always being accommodating
; and precious little thanks I get ! Now
look here, Warrington ; if I go with you to that
confounded place tomorrow, I shall expect you to
leave me in peace afterwards. I am not going
to be let in for this kind of thing again. I
shouldn't mind putting myself to inconvenience
for a fellow who was awfully hard hit, and wanted
a chance of getting a few words alone with a girl,
every now and then ; but that isn't your case at
all. "You have been spending whole days with
Mademoiselle de Mersac ever since she came to
England. There was nothing on earth, that I can
see, to have prevented your proposing to her last
winter, in Algiers ; there is nothing to prevent your
proposing to her now. But I don't believe you
ever will. You prefer to hang on and hang on,
settling nothing, and making everybody uncomfortable
; and, one of these fine mornings, you'll
find the young lady will marry some one else ; and
then you'll raise a tremendous hullabaloo, and
swear she's deserted you, and broken your heart.
I call that sort of thing simply sickening.'

Ah ! but you don't quite understand,' observed
Barrington, placidly.

And then Mr. Leigh, who was not in the best

of tempers, got up, crossed the room, and sat
down beside another man.

He kept his promise of joining the party to
Kew Gardens on the following day ; but he did
not, in the sequel, prove true to the determination
he had expressed of taking part in no more such
expeditions. An appeal to .his good nature and
friendship was generally enough to send him
sighing off to the Crystal Palace, to Richmond
Hill, to half-a-dozen places which, at that time of
year, were not very attractive in themselves, and
for which poor Leigh, then and there, conceived a
hatred which time has never been able to efface.

But the services of this faithful friend were
not demanded every day. Barrington was a man
of many resources and a very large acquaintance,
and, by the aid of one stratagem or another, contrived
not only to secure a chaperon for Mademoiselle
de Mersac during her daily wanderings,
but also to provide that chaperon with a more or
less suitable companion. Thus privacy was insured,
propriety respected, and the cavillings of
Amelia stifled in their birth. By a triumph of
diplomacy, Amelia herself was made use of upon
more than one occasion. It was Amelia who sat,
for over an hour, beside Miss Barrington, at the

exhibition of Old Masters, talking about the disputed
causes of atrophy, while her brother and
Jeanne were at the other end of the gallery, not
looking at the pictures at all. It was Amelia
again who mounted guard over the same couple
during a long wet afternoon in Bedford Square,
when Miss Barrington was, as usual, out, and who
allowed her attention to be entirely taken off her
duties by the conversation of a German physician
a most interesting man, whom Harry had
known, some years back, on the Continent, and
whom he had thoughtfully invited to meet his
sister. Mr. Seymour, too, had to tak: his share
of escort duty, as had many others, none of whom
be it said to the credit of Barrington's adroitness
— ever imagined that they were acting in
obedience to any other will than their own.

Jeanne, at all events, for one, had no idea of
the schemes and plots that were required to bring
about those long and delightful interviews with
Barrington to which she looked forward every
morning on waking, and remembered regretfully
every night before going to sleep. Everything
seemed to fall out quite naturally in the manner
most agreeable to her ; everybody appeared determined
that the few days, or weeks, of her stay in

London should be made as pleasant for her as
possible ; her hostess was kindness itself, and barrington
was as devoted as a man could be. It
was a cheerful, busy, novel kind of life to her,
and she would have been perfectly happy in it,
for a time, if only she could have managed to
banish all memory of Saint-Luc from her mind.

Meanwhile the natural termination of this little
comedy was drawing nearer day by day, and it
came at last, as such terminations often do, somewhat
abruptly, and without any premeditation on
the part of the chief actor. It fell out that, on
a certain frosty, starry evening, Barrington and
Jeanne found themselves at the entrance of the
famous Long Walk in Windsor Park. Under
the protection of Mr. and Mrs. Seymour, who by
skilful strategy had been cajoled into braving the
risks of the expedition, they had been spending
the day in the royal borough. They had duly
visited the state apartments of the Castle ; they
had surveyed the wide prospect of river, town,
and meadow from the terrace ; they had attended
the afternoon service at St. George's ; and now
Barrington had at last persuaded his sister and her
husband to seek the warmth and repose which
they so much needed in an hotel before setting

out upon the return journey to London. There
would be just thine before the train left for Mademoiselle
de Mersa.c to get a glimpse of the Great
Park, and she certainly ought not to leave Windsor
without seeing it. As for its being pitch dark,
that did not signify in the least ; starlight was
rather an advantage to wintry scenery. So
Jeanne received a reluctant permission to go ;
and she and her escort were soon standing, with
the Castle at their backs, facing the long vista and
the equestrian statue at the end of it. That
triumph of the sculptor's art was barely distinguishable
in the darkness ; but the straight line
of the three-mile avenue, with its row of elms on
either side, was clear enough; and Jeanne endeavoured
to express that admiration of its effect
which she supposed was expected of her.

It is magnificent in summer, I have no
doubt,' said she, with an upward glance at the
bare boughs which were swaying and creaking
with the rising wind ; ' but do you not think it is
a little melancholy now ? '

'Melancholy Well, yes, I dare say it is
rather,' answered Barrington, absently. His
thoughts were not in the Long Walk at that
moment.

For myself, I am not very fond of avenues
at any time,' resumed Jeanne. ' I like much
better the winding roads of your English parks,
•vvliicli generally manage to keep you out of sight
of the house till you are close upon it. There is
something rather depressing in driving for three
miles in a straight line, with the object of your
drive before you all the time, and growing bigger
and bigger as you approach it. One feels as
though one had a task to accomplish, and one
longs to get to the end of it. In France there is
hardly a chateau but has its avenue ; not so long as
this, certainly, still long enough, very often, to seem
interminable. Most of them are bordered by
lime trees ; but some have poplars, which is terrible.
It is impossible to imagine anything more
gloomy than a French chateau during the autumn
and winter. Most of us, you know, do not make our
homes in the country, as you do. It is only those
who cannot afford to go away who remain on their
estates all the year round ; and when the summer
is over, and their guests have gone away, they
usually dismiss a number of their servants. Then
the avenue is deep with fallen leaves, which nobody
takes the trouble to sweep away ; at the
end of it is the house, generally half shut up ;

everything is silence, and sleep, and decay. I do
not know how I could bear to live in such a place ! '
she concluded, with a shudder.

Barrington lead never been told before that
M. de Saint-Luc was the owner of a chateau ; but
lie felt sure of it now.

I don't think,' said lie, ' that you ever will
live in such a place.'

How can you tell ? '

At all events, nothing obliges you to do so.'

She made no reply.

Where would you like best to live — in 'England
or in Algeria ? What I should prefer would
be to spend the summer and autumn, and perhaps
just a little bit of the winter, in England ; then
to go to Algiers, and remain there till May, when
it would be time to do a few weeks of Paris and
London.'

Yes, that would be perfect.'

I should think it perfect if you were with me.'

These last words were spoken in a very low
voice — not too low, however, to reach their destination
; for Barrington was standing very close to
Jeanne at the time, and, as he stopped speaking,
his hand somehow found its way into hers. And
so, for a couple of seconds or so, they remained,

VOL. IlL o

neither of them showing any indignation to speak.
Then Jeanne started, and drew back.

We shall miss the train. Let us go,' she said,
in a rather unsteady voice.

Not till you have told me with your own lips
that you love me, Jeanne — not till you have promised
that we shall never part again in our lives,
and that you will not allow anyone or anything to
come between us any more.'

The floodgates of Barrington's speech were
loosed now, and set free a torrent of glib words.
Having at last made up his mind to speak plainly,
he appreciated to the full the exquisite pleasure of
pouring his love tale into Jeanne's own ears ; and,
as he was not hampered by any of the doubts
which usually impede the eloquence of lovers, his
avowal progressed without any hitch, and was
quite a model of poetical and graceful diction.
It was all such plain sailing ! Long ago he had
been perfectly Avell aware, in his heart, that
Jeanne loved him ; it only remained now for him
to declare his own passion ; and, as he did so, he
could see, even in that dim light, that her face
softened, that a smile hovered about her lips — he
almost thought he could detect a gathering moisture
in her eyes.

Great, then, was his astonishment and consternation
at the answer which fell upon his ears
when he had finished speaking.

Mr. Barrington,' said Jeanne, in her gravest
and most composed manner, ' I am very grateful
to you for all the kind things you have said, but
what you wish for cannot be. It is impossible.'

Had her suitor been a little less prolix, she
would probably have replied to him after a different
fashion ; but he had given her time to think,
and to remember both her engagement to Saint-luc
and its cause.

You forget that I am not free,' she said.

Is that all ? Is it only that ? '

It should have been enough, I think, to prevent
you from speaking as you did just now.'

Oh, but that is ridiculous — it really is. I
know that you are engaged, in a sort of way, to
that fellow, but I also know that you don't care a
brass farthing for him ; and you are not yet married
to him, thank God ! If you do not love me,
you have only to say so, and no harm will have
been done ; but if you do, you will be inflicting
the greatest injury in your power upon me and
upon yourself — yes, and upon Saint-Luc too — by
concealing it.'

Barrington's tone was hardly that of a supplant.
All his life long it had been his habit, if
he did not at once get what he wanted, to order
it rather than beg for it ; and he was displaying
this tendency now more plainly than he was
aware of.

Jeanne, however, scarcely noticed this, being
fully taken up with her own perplexity and
trouble. In her heart she was rather of Barrington's
opinion, and was inclined to think that she
• ought to tell him all the truth ; but then there
was that unfortunate debt of Leon's which must
be spoken of first, and, at the moment, she could
not bring herself to do this. So, having no words
at command by means of which she might make
Barrington understand that she wanted time to
think before giving him a direct answer, she cut
the knot of the difficulty in a very simple manner.
She turned, and walked back towards the town as
fast as she could go.

Barrington could only follow her; and, as he
caught her up, he did manage to whisper a few
pleas and remonstrances. But she answered
never a word, and he soon subsided into silence:;
follow is it. possible to make love while hurrying,
at the rate of a good four miles an hour,

through streets illumined by gas-lamps and lighted
shop-windows, and tolerably full of foot-passengers
? Barrington gave it up ; but he was highly
incensed, and not at all inclined to put up with
the scolding which his sister was even now rehearsing
in anticipation of his return to the White
Hart.

'Really, this is too bad!' cried that injured
lady, when the delinquents made their appearance.
' Harry, are you aware that you have made
us miss the train, and that we shall very likely
have to stay here all night, without so much as a
hair-brush or a clean collar among us ? '

Nonsense, Amelia ! There is another train in
half-an-hour, and you will be home by dinner-time.
Don't make a fuss about nothing.'

Mrs. Seymour was scared into silence by the
unexpected sternness of this rejoinder ; but when
she was once more at home with her husband, she
expressed her opinion of Barrington's behaviour
in no measured terms.

I believe he made us late purposely,' she
said ; ' and as for that horrid girl, I shall not betaken
in by her a second time. This morning she
was trying to make friends with me, and I really
began to think that I had done her an injustice.

and was sorry I had written to the Ashleyss about
it at all. But now I am very glad that I did ; and
I do hope that they will manage between them
to bring Harry to his senses.'

CHAPTER XXXVI.

MISS BARRING ton's PATIENCE IS TRIED.

Miss Barrington had a small room on the ground
floor of her house in Bedford Square, in which
she usually spent her mornings, and which was
firmly closed against all visitors, save such as
came upon matters of business. It was here that
she received her lawyer from time to time ; it was
here that she cross-questioned and brow-beat the
sturdy beggars, the meek, limp gentlewomen in
distress, and the much less patient clergymen
who applied to her almost daily for alms ; here,
too, it was that, when her many occupations allowed
her half-an-hour or so of idleness, she was
in the habit of enjoying her newspaper or her
novel without fear of needless interruption.

She was sittings in this room on the morning
after the day of the Windsor expedition, warming
her feet before the fire, and reading in the Times
about the terms of the Capitulation of Paris, and

the preparations for the election of a National
Assembly, when the butler, entering with an
apologetic air, announced that Mrs. Ashley was
waiting in the hall, and desired an interview.

Mrs. Ashley ? ' repeated Miss Barrington, in
some surprise. ' Well, show her into the drawing-room.'


I beg you" pardon, ma'am ; but I was to say
as Mrs. Ashley wished most particular to see you
alone.'

Bother ! ' muttered Miss Barrington. ' Ask
her come in here then,' she added aloud.

A rustling of silk skirts was heard from without
— a quick, agitated footfall ; and then our old
friend appeared through the open door, and
advanced rapidly towards the fire-place, dropping
her umbrella, her veil, and a couple of brown
paper parcels on the way.

My dear Miss Barrington, how are you ? I
am so ashamed of intruding into your private
room in this way ! I know you dislike it so very
much ; and no wonder, I'm sure, having so many
business matters, and that kind of thing, to attend
to as you have ; and I always say that one cannot
give one's mind properly to any subject if one
is always expecting somebody to come running in

and distracting one's attention ; and over andover
again I have begged Mr. Ashley to let me
have one room in the house where, at least, everybody
should be obliged to knock before coming
in. That would give one a little time, you know ;
but he won't see the necessity for it, though he
has his own study, where he keeps nothing but
guns and fishing-rods, and such things, and never,
by any chance, opens a book '

And what has brought you up to London ? '
inquired Miss Barrington, perceiving that this
speech was likely to be indefinitely prolonged.

Oh, a multitude of things ! Shopping, you
know, and — and the dentist. I ought to have had
my teeth seen to long ago. And, oh, could you
recommend me a really good dentist, who is not
absolutely extortionate in his charges? Some of
them are so shameful — or rather, so shameless !
There is a poor man near us at Holmhurst — the
curate of the next parish, in fact — a very nice,
gentlemanly young fellow, but has lost his teeth
early in life — no fault of his, I'm sure — and the
other day he had to get a false set ; and he thought
he would go to one of the so-called cheap men,
and—'

Yes, yes,' broke in Miss Barrington, ' I know.

You told me about him once before. He swallowed
the entire set in the middle of the Litany,
didn't he ? — or something of that kind. Was it
to get information from me about a dentist that
you came here to-day ? '

N — no ; not that alone,' answered Mrs.
Ashley, beginning to look rather uncomfortable.

I only asked because, from what the servant
said, I fancied you must have some reason for
wishing to see me in this room.'

Well, yes, so I have. It isn't exactly what you
could call a matter of business, you know; only '

Call it anything you like — what's in a name ?
But let us hear what it is.'

It is about Jeanne. It has been so very
kind of you, dear Miss Barrington, to have her
here; and seeing London, and the change, and
all, must have done her an immensity of good.
But everything must have an end, and don't you
think she had better go back with me tomorrow ? '

Certainly not. She is quite happy where she
is, and I shall not think of letting her go.'

Well, but, Miss Barrington,' began Mrs.
Ashley, hesitatingly, 'you see she was placed
under my care, and '

• And you don't think my house a safe place

for her to stay in, I suppose. Much obliged to
you.'

Oh, Miss Barrington, ^^/^as^ ! ' cried poor
Mrs. Ashley, with an agonised vision of forfeited
legacies rising before her eyes. ' You know I
could not possibly mean that. Only everybody's
house is unsafe at times — at least for particular
people ; and just now, Jeanne — Mr. Barrington —
Well, she begged me not to mention her name ;
but really, how is one to help mentioning names ?
The truth is, I have had a most disagreeable and
alarming note from Mrs. Seymour.'

Give it to me,' said Miss Barrington, majestically.
And, after a moment's hesitation, Mrs.
Ashley obeyed.

Oho ! So Amelia takes upon herself to write
and tell you that I am encouraging a " disgraceful
flirtation " between your niece and Harry, and that
you had better take the girl away, unless you
want her to spoil your daughter's prospects. And
you have come up to town in order to brandish
this silly and impertinent document in my face ! '

Oh, but I didn't do that — I really didn't,'
pleaded Mrs. Ashley, much alarmed. ' You asked
me to show it to you, you know ; and what could
I do ? I own I was a good deal put out when it

came ; but I dare say, after all, there isn't a word
of truth in it.'

I don't know why there shouldn't be,' returned
Miss Barrington, composedly. ' That is,
as regards the substance of it. I don't admit
having encouraged flirtations, or anything of the
sort, myself.' i

But if that is the case. Miss Barrington — if
there really is anything of that kind going on,
hadn't I better take Jeanne away at once, before
it goes too far to be stopped? Helen's prospects
'

'Helen's prospects don't include a marriage
with Harry, I suspect,' interrupted Miss Barrington,
bluntly. ' I am sorry for your disappointment,
but it can't be helped. Men will be
obstinate, you see. I brought Harry to the
water for you ; but I couldn't make him drink,
could I!'

Oh, but this is too dreadful ! After all that
has passed, that our plans should be upset in this
way ! And by Jeanne, too, of all people, who is
engaged herself.'

Ah, that I have nothing to do with. And
mind you, I am not going to make myself responsible
for any of Harry's vagaries. I don't say

that he is going to marry your niece, or even that
he is flirting with her ; but I think it is only
fair to tell you that, to the best of my belief,
there is not the remotest chance of his marrying
Helen.'

It is very hard ! ' exclaimed poor Mrs. Ashley,
beginning to whimper — ' very hard, I must
say, after things being all but settled. And that
Jeanne, to whom wee have tried to show every
kindness, shoidd be the one to do us this injury !
It does seem hard. I don't want to say anything
unkind, but one can't help being reminded of the
man in ^>iO^'s Fables who warmed the snake in
his bosom — so nasty of him ! I wonder whether
people actually did such things in those days —
and it almost tempts one to say one will never
trust anybody again. How I am to break this at
home Heaven only knows ! '

Come, come,' said Miss Barrington, not unkindly,
' it isn't worth crying about. Helen is a
charming girl, and will make a good marriage
yet, you may be sure ; and when you come to
think of it, Any is no such very great catch. I
have lots of young men among my acquaintances
much better off than he ; and if you will let me
.take charge of Helen next season, she shall have

her pick of them. Things might be worse, remember.
It is not as if she had been in love
with Harry.'

Oh, but I am not sure '

Now, Mrs. Ashley, you know perfectly well
that there never was anything of the kind between
them. Helen will be a little mortified and disappointed
at first ; but I am goings to play the part
of the fairy god-mother, and put everything
straight for her in a trice. Take my word for it,
the day will come when you will be very thankful
to think that our plan fell through.'

After this fashion Miss Barrington comforted
her visitor, restored her to something like good
spirits, and finally, though not without some
gentle persuasion, got rid of her.

That abandoned Amelia ! ' she muttered, as
the door closed behind Mrs. Ashley. ' I'll be
even with her for this.' And then she returned
to the Capitulation of Paris.

But Miss Barrington was not to be allowed to
inform her mind upon current events that morning.
Hardly had she found the place where she
had been interrupted in her reading, when another
knock at the door announced the approach of a
second intruder; and immediately after it, Mr.

Seymour shuffled into the room, looking very
unhappy and not a little apprehensive.

Now, before you say another word, Ernest,'
began Miss Barrington, sternly, ' have the goodness
to answer me one question. Have you come
here to see me of your own accord, or are you
sent by Amelia ? '

I should not have thought of disturbing you
on my own account,' answered Mr. Seymour, in a
melancholy voice. ' I never interfere with other
people's affairs ; and, besides, I caught a chill
yesterday, and I feel that my liver is congested,
and that I ought by rights to be in bed. But
Amelia wished me to speak to you about '

Then you may as well go home again and
go to bed, and nurse your liver ; for I don't intend
to listen to you.'

Eeally, Aunt Susan '

Eeally, Ernest, I am not going to stand anymore
of Amelia's nonsense ; and you may tell
her so, with my love. If she has anything to say,
let her come here and say it ; but I won't have
her sending me impertinent messages through
you.'

But you haven't heard what it is yet.'

I know, though. Bless you, I have had

Mrs. Ashley here the whole morning, and only
got rid of her by almost thrusting her out of the
door. I don't know what you all expect of me ;
but I know what some of you will get, if you goon
worrying me as you are doing.'

And Miss Barrington assumed an air of such
ferocity that Mr. Seymour instinctively clutched
his hat, and backed away from her.

Upon this, she immediately extended her hand
to him.

Good-bye, Ernest,' she said. ' Take great
care of yourself, and tell Amelia that, any day she
likes to come here, I shall be ready for her.
Now, I won't detain you any longer.'

And upon my word and honour,' said this
luckless envoy, giving an account of his mission to
Amelia, on his return home, ' I believe that, if I
had lingered another minute, that aunt of yours
would have kicked me out of the house.'

If Mr. Seymour could have so far forgotten the
delicate state of his health as to open one of the
windows of the four-wheeled cab which bore him
away from Bedford Square, and to cast a backward
glance at the house he had just left, he
would have been gratified by the sight of his
brother-in-law alighting from a hansom before it.

'Oh, it's you, is itP' said Miss Barrington,
gruffly, when this third visitor invaded lier sanctum.
' And what do ijoa want, I wonder ? '

Aunt Susan, I want lo have a talk with you.
I am in trouble.'

Is it money ? ' inquired Miss Barringtou,
blandly

^ No ; it isn't money.'

• Have you developed an internal complaint P '

'Good heavens, no ! I hope not.'

Then, of course, it must be love. Proceed,
my dear Harry. I like listening to love-tales ;
and I have no doubt I shall be able to give you a
good deal of sound advice as to the best mode of
gaining the lady's affections.'

I believe you know all about it,' said Barrington,
suspiciously.

No ! You don't mean to say that you give
me credit for such wonderful penetration as that !
Well, perhaps it may save time if I tell you at
once that I do know all about it, and so does
everybody else. When people make themselves
as conspicuous as you and she have chosen to do
they can hardly expect to escape notice. Mrs.
Ashley has been here this morning to protest.
against your conduct. So has Ernest Seymour>
VOL. in. p

acting as representative of Amelia. I only wish
the three of you had arrived at the same moment.
What fun it would have been ! '

Ah, you may laugh,' returned Barrington, in
an aggrieved voice, ' but it is no laughing matter
for me, I can tell you. What a nuisance it is that
people won't be content to mind their own business !
And what earthly right has Mrs. Ashley to protest
against anything I may do ? I never heard of
anything so coolly impertinent.'

Ah, that's the way of the world. A few
months ago you would have allowed that she had
some reason for being interested in your proceedings.
But we needn't mind poor Mrs. Ashley
now. What is it that you want me to do for
you ? For I presume you want something ? '

I told you what I wanted — only to have a
talk with you. I should like to have your opinion
about it all.'

What do you wish me to deliver an opinion
upon, Harry ? Upon the advisability of your
marrying Jeanne de Mersac, or upon your chance
of succeeding with her ? '

Well, upon both points. I should never have
supposed that you would have approved of such a
match ; but it seems that you do — at least, you

have done your best to bring it about — and I wish
you would gratify my curiosity by thing me why.
I never was more astonished in my life than when
I heard that you had asked Mademoiselle de
Mersac to stay with you. I always fancied you
were bent upon marrying me to Helen Ashley,
who, I must confess, would have been a more
suitable person from your point of view.'

You don't know much about my point of
view, I dare say,' observed Miss Barrington. ' I
have shifted it about a good deal in the course of
my life, trying to get face to face with things, and
to see them as they are ; but I doubt whether I
have ever quite succeeded. One can but do one's
best. When I was convinced that you really did
love this girl, I did not wish you to marry anyone
but her. I have always thought that a love-match
would be the saving of you. With Helen
you would have got on well enough ; but you
would have been perpetually away from home ;
and you would have become more and more
selfish as you grew older ; and then I should have
been in constant terror of your falling in love
with somebody else, and perhaps running away
with her. All I trust is that you will be as true
to Jeanne as I am sure she will be to you.'

'You need have no fear on that score,' answered
Barrington, with decision. ' I have never
loved anyone in my life but her ; and I shall
never love anyone else.'

Ah ! Well, I suppose you had better go upstairs
now, and tell her so. You will find her in
the drawing-room.'

Don't be in such a hurry, Aunt Susan. I
have told her so already, as it happens ; and that
is why I am in such trouble and perplexity at this
moment.'

Do you mean to say that you have proposed
to her, and been refused ? '

Not exactly that ; but something very like it.
I spoke plainly to her last night, at Windsor, and
she wouldn't listen to me. She said that what I
asked for was an impossibility — or words to that
effect. I never was more taken aback in my
life.'

Ha, ha ! — so I should imagine. Yoi naturally
expected that she would rush into your arms.
How disappointing it must have been for you !
You can but try again though. Surely it is not
in feminine nature to refuse a second offer of your
hand and heart.'

My dear Aunt Susan, you are perfectly welcome

to laugh at me, and I hope you enjoy it.
Sneers of that kind won't make me in the least
angry, because il ny a que la verite qui blesse and
I do not happen to be the coxcomb that you try to
make me out. I believe that Jeanne de Mersac
loves me ; and if you choose to think me conceited
for so believing, I can't help it. I am not going
to waste my breath and your time in proving — as
I could, if I chose — that there is no conceit at all
in such an assumption. What I want to know,
and wdiat I came here to ask you, is whether you
will use your influence with her on my behalf.
Will you try to make her understand that it is an
absurdly mistaken idea of duty that binds her to
that Saint-Luc fellow ? She will not listen to me,
because I cannot pretend to be a disinterested adviser
; but if you were to speak, I think it might
have some effect upon her.'

And so this was the errand upon which you
came, was it ? ' said Aunt Susan, with an odd
look. ' No, no, my good friend, you are not quite
such a fool as that. What you did come for was
to get some one to back up your faint resolution.
Don't interrupt me. I believe you love the girl,
and you can't help your temperament, I suppose ;
but I know that, if I had chosen, I coukl have got

you to leave this house this morning without
breathing another word to her about marriage.'

Upon my word, this is going rather too far ! '
exclaimed Barrington, starting to his feet, and
showing signs of losing his temper at last. ' You
have no right to assume that I should behave like
a blackguard under any circumstances. I am not
one of those people w^io act upon first impulses,
and I dare say I often change my mind ; but when
once I have pledged myself, I do not go back from
my word. I should never have asked Mademoiselle
de Mersac to marry me if I had had any
thought of backing out of it afterwards ; and now,
whether I am accepted or refused, I shall always
remain true to her.'

Well, well,' sighed Miss Barrington, ' I hope
so, I'm sure. I hope I haven't been making an
old fool of myself — but one never knows. If you
don't go upstairs now, you will hardly have time
to get through what you have to say before the
luncheon-bell rings. Please go, and leave me in
peace ; I want to read my paper.'

But Barrington would not go yet. His aunt
had not been far wrong in her assertion that his
visit to her had been prompted rather by a craving
for moral support than for any want of actual

help or advice. He wished to be assured that
this contemplated marriage would not be looked
upon as an act of folly by the world. He wanted
to be patted on the back — to be contradicted a
little — to have the opportunity of demonstrating
that he knev/ what he was about, and that he
loved not only well, but wisely. And Miss Barrington
let him have his say, laying down her
newspaper again, and hearing him out with great
patience to the end.

What an extraordinary character yours is,
Harry ! ' she exclaimed, at length. ' I don't suppose
there is another man in the world who would
have spent half-an-hour in haranguing an old
woman about his undying love, while the object
of it was in another room close by, alone, and
waiting for him.'

Barrington laughed. He was quite himself
again by this time, and wondered how he could
have felt so uneasy in spirit as he had done earlier
in the morning.

I am going up to the drawing-room now,' he
said. ' I suppose I shall see you again by-and-by.'


He opened the door as he spoke, but did not
pass through it ; for, while he had been talking.

yet another visitor had been demanding a private
interview with Miss Barrington, and Alas at this
moment announced by the butler.

'Mr. Ashley.' It was more than Miss Barrington's
patience could stand.

This was wanting ! ' she ejaculated audibly.
Then she got up, and said, in a resolute voice —

How are you, Mr. Ashley ? Now, please,
before you open your statement, permit me to say
distinctly and finally that I decline to be badgered
in my own den. All the morning through, one
person after another has been taking my room by
storm, and trying, in every conceivable way, to
put me into a rage; Up to this moment I have
borne with it all. But to everything there must
be an end ; and I have never set myself up as a
rival to Job. I suppose you know that your wife
has been here already ? '

I haven't seen my wife,' answered Mr. Ashley.
' I have only just arrived from Hplmhurst.'

And then Miss Barrington Perceived that
something had gone wrong. Mr. Ashley's naturally
loud voice was lowered almost to a whisper ;
his placid countenance wore an expression of deep
solemnity and concern, and this forehead was
wrinkled into a portentous frown.

I don't know what j^oii are talking about,'
he said. ' I want to see Jane ; I have some
bad news for her. Her brother is dying, I am
afraid.'

Good God ! ' exclaimed Barrington ; ' you
don't mean that.'

Yes ; a telegram came for her this morning,'
replied Mr. Ashley, feeling in his pocket for the
paper. ' I guessed what it might be. and I thought
it better to open it than to send it on by post.
Here it is, if you like to read it. I wish one of
you would break it to the poor girl, I'm such a
bad hand at anything of that sort.'

Barrington took the telegram, which was from
Saint-Luc, and was dated from an hotel in Geneva.
Please come at once. Leon is very ill of fever.
There is still hope.' That was all ; and the words
struck Barrington as being needlessly few and
curt. He read it aloud, and then said : ' Hang
the fellow ! he might have spent another shilling
or two in sending some details.'

Nonsense ! ' returned Miss Barrington ; ' one
can't break things gently by telegram. Go and
tell her, Harry, as quickly as you can, and I will
look up the trains.'

Hadn't you better do it ? ' suggested Barrington,

who lead a horror of painful scenes. ' A
woman understands better '

'Very well. Give me the telegram then.
And be so good as to ring the bell, and say that
I shall want my maid to pack up my things and
be ready to start on a journey to-night. I can't
let Jeanne go alone. You will find a Foreign
Bradshaw somewhere. Just make out the quickest
route to Geneva, will you, while I am upstairs.'


Barrington obeyed his aunt's instructions
mechanically. He rang the bell, and gave the
necessary orders to the butler ; he got out Bradshaw,
and a slip of paper, and jotted down the
hours of arrival and departure of the express
trains ; he listened to the mournful comments
and surmises of Mr. Ashley, and by degrees came
to a sense of the calamity that had happened, and
of what some of its probable consequences would
be. He was very sorry for Jeanne, very sorry for
Leon, whom he had always liked, and he was also
exceedingly sorry for himself. If only he had
gone up to the drawing-room ten minutes earlier,
instead of remaining to talk sentiment to an unsympathetic
listener, how different would have
been his position with regard to Jeanne at that

moment ! Had this offer been accepted, lie, too,
might have gone to Switzerland with her ; but
now he felt that if he were allowed to bid her
farewell, it would be as much as he could expect of
her in this time of her sorrow, and certainly there
could be no possibility of his carrying out the
purpose which had brought him to Bedford
Square that morning. It was very bad luck, he
could not help thinking. His heart sank at the
idea of parting from Jeanne. He dreaded the
long separation that might be in store for them ;
he dreaded the effect that the loss of her brother
might have upon her mind ; most of all, he
dreaded her return to the companionship of
Saint-Luc.

Nothing more miserably unfortunate could
possibly have happened ! ' he ejaculated aloud,
forgetful of the presence of Mr. Ashley, who,
however, did not seem to consider the expression
too strong a one.

Yes, yes,' he agreed, wagging his head dolefully
— ' terrible thing ! — terrible ! Poor young
fellow ! To go through the whole campaign without
a scratch, and then get bowled over by fever
at the last minute. It does seem hard lines ! He
was with Bourbaki's army, you know, and, of

course, crossed the Swiss frontier the other day,
with the rest of them. They seemed to have died
like flies, those unlucky beggars ! — more from
cold than disease though, I fancy. Poor Jane will
be dreadfully cut up about this. Very kind of
your aunt to propose to take her to Geneva —
most kind, I must say. I had been thinking I
ought to go myself; but there wouldn't be much
use in adding another person to the party now,
Avould there ? '

None whatever, I should say. I would offer to
go — to look after my aunt, you know — only I feel
convinced that she would not hear of it. There
is no difficulty about the journey, and I think
when people are in trouble, it is kindness to leave
them to themselves as much as possible.'

Whether this were meant as a gentle hint to
Mr. Ashley or not, that excellent gentleman accepted
it as such. He got up, took his hat, stick,
and gloves, and said with a certain air of relief —

Yes, to be sure — yes, you are right there,
Barrington, I think. I don't see that I can do
any good by staying here, and I may very likely
be in the way. Will you bid your aunt good-bye
for me, and thank her very much for her kindness?
And, if you get a chance, you might just say a

kind word or two to Jane ; I shouldn't like her to
think I had forgotten lier. Well, good morning
to yon, Barrington. See yon again soon, I daresay.'


And so presently the street-door was stint behind
Mr. Ashley.

After a time. Miss Barrington came down,
looking very serions and subdued.

Jeanne takes it with wonderful courage,' she
said. ' She has gone to pack up, and she talks
cheerfully, and says she is certain her brother will
recover ; but she is looking like death herself,
poor child, all the time. We start to-night, of
coin-se. At what time does the train go ? Half-past
eight? — very well. I think, perhaps, you
had better go away now, Harry. You might
meet us at the station and see us off, if you like.'

I wish I could go with you ! '

Yes, but I am afraid that would hardly do.
I will telegraph to you as soon as we arrive, and
will write all particulars by the first post.'

With this promise Barrington was fain to be
content. He went away very sorrowfully, and
spent the rest of the day alone in his rooms,
dining early, so as to be at the station before the
travellers. Amid the hurry and confusion of

taking tickets and registering luggage, he saw
them only for a few moments, and could but find
time to whisper a word or two of sympathy and
encouragement to Jeanne. He had intended to
beg her to write to him ; but at the last moment
he felt reluctant to obtrude himself upon her,
and only said, with a sigh, ' I wonder how long it
will be before I hear of you again ? '

Miss Barrington will be sure to let you know
as soon as we reach our journey's end,' answered
Jeanne.

Her voice was as clear as usual ; and when she
gave her unloved hand to Barrington, just before
the train started, he noticed that it was quite
steady and cool. Knowing her as well as he did
by that time, he did not misjudge her on account
of her outward serenity ; but he would certainly
have been better pleased if she had given him to
understand, were it ever so faintly, that it gave
her some pain to leave him.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

BY THE LAKE OF Geneva.

Jeanie and Miss Barrington, arriving at the
Geneva railway-station weary and dispirited, after
an unbroken journey from London, were rather
alarmed when a servant from the Hotel de I'Ecu,
having informed himself of their identity, took
off his cap, and produced a note addressed to
Mademoiselle de Mersac. It was so far more
likely, they felt, to bring them bad news than
good. But Jeanne, tearing open the envelope
with cold hands, found to her relief that it only
contained a line or two from Saint-Luc, apologising
for his inability to meet her at the station.
Until her arrival, he said, he did not like to leave
his charge, who, however, was no worse — if anything
a shade better — than when he had sent off
his telegram.

So far, so good ! ' cried Miss Barrington, reviving
a little when this intelligence was read out

to lier. ' Now, don't let us hurry off at once, but
wait for our luggage, and have baths and breakfast
before we attempt to do anything more. If
you are going to help in nursing your brother,
you must not begin by being tired out.'

But Jeanne's patience was hardly equal to the
following of this sound advice. She did, perforce,
remain at the station till her luggage was delivered
to her ; but as soon as she reached the hotel, she
left Miss Barrington to order what she pleased in
the way of rooms and food, and, begging one of
the waiters to show her her brother's room, followed
him upstairs.

The man knocked gently at the door of a
bedroom on the first floor, and immediately Saint-luc
came out ; and, taking Jeanne by the handled
her into a small adjoining sitting-room.

Leon is certainly a little better,' said he.
'The doctor is more hopeful about him to-day
than he was yesterday, and if he begins to mend
now all may yet be well. I trust I did not do
wrong in telegraphing for you.'

Wrong ! no, indeed ! If you had not telegraphed
I should never have forgiven — I mean it
was very kind of you to do so. Now, I must see
him.'

One moment, mademoiselle. I thought you
ought to be at hand, in case things came to the
worst ; but, unless you insist upon it, it would
perhaps be better for you not to go into your
brother's room. You have not yet heard what his
illness is.'

You told me it was fever. But it does not
in the least signify; I have no fear of infection.'

It is scarlet fever.'

Nothing worse than that ! ' exclaimed Jeanne,
much relieved.

That may be bad enough sometimes. And it
is very infectious.'

Not until the patient is recovering, I believe.
But I should certainly claim the right to nurse
him, whatever might be his disease.'

I expected as much ; only it was my duty to
warn you. Mademoiselle, you must not be too
much shocked when you see poor Leon. He has
been very ill, and is greatly altered — not by the
fever alone. He would not have succumbed to it
so easily as he has done if he had not been thoroughly
sickened and weakened by the last
weeks of the war.'

Jeanne glanced at Saint-Luc, and noticed that
he too was much changed. He was as thin as a

VOL. III. Q

greyhound ; there was a plentiful sprinkling of
grey in his black hair and moustache ; his cheeks
were hollow, his face tanned, weather-beaten, and
scored with deep lines ; and in his eyes, which
seemed to have doubled in size, there was a weary,
patient look which Jeanne had never seen there
before.

You are not well yourself, monsieur,' she
said, gently.

There is nothing the matter with me ; I am
by no means as ill as I look. But one does not
go through such a march as that last one of ours
without bearing some traces of it afterwards. It
has killed many of us, and turned many more into
old men. And I personally have had a great deal
of trouble and unhappiness lately ; my poor regiment
all but annihilated — half my friends killed,
or dead of fatigue and exposure — disaster following
disaster — our miserable retreat into Switzerland
— and, to crown all, this illness of Leon's.
That is the worst thing that has happened to me
yet. All through our misfortunes my one consolation
has been that he was still well and unhurt,
and my one hope was that I should be able to
restore him to you safe and sound at the end of
the war. But it was not to be.'

There was an odd, pathetic break in the man's
voice Avhic'li both touched and surprised Jeanne,,
and made lier involuntarily draw nearer to him.
Dear ^I. de Saint-Luc,' lie said, ' I know you
have been all that is good and kind to Leon, and
I never can thank you enough for all that you
have done for him ; but neither you nor anyone
else could have kept him from catching a fever.'
No. All we can do now is to pray for him.'
You do sometimes pray, then, now ? '
Ma foi, yes,' answered Saint-Luc, with a faint
smile. ' I have looked on at so many horrors
and so much suffering of late, that I have come to
see that there must be another life after this.
They tell mo that that is not a logical conclusion ;
but if it be a true one, I can afford to do without
the logic. You told me once that you woidd
pray for me ; and sometimes I have fancied that
your prayers were bearing some fruit. But I
must not talk of myself any more. I will take
you at once to see Leon ; but you must eat and
rest before you can possibly be fit to begin nursing
him.'

And without further preface, Saint-Luc led
the way into the small room where poor Leon
lay, wasted to a shadow of his former self by

Q 2

privation and illness, and muttering incoherently
as he tossed to and fro in the delirium of the
fever.

JBy the bedside was seated a white-capped
Sister of Charity, whom Jeanne could not, at first,
help regarding with a slight twinge of jealousy,
but to whose presence she became quite reconciled
when Saint-luc spoke of her in terms of the
deepest gratitude.

But for the good Sister there,' said he, 'I do
not know whether we should have kept our
patient alive till now. You and I, mademoiselle,
are willing to do our best ; but neither of us, I
suppose, knows much more of the art of nursing
the sick than we do of the study of medicine, and
if we were left to ourselves we should be making
mistakes every hour.'

Jeanne saw that her first impulse, which had
been to dispense with this stranger's services, and
to undertake the whole care of her brother herself,
had been guessed ; and saw also that it had
been a foolish one. Before twenty-four hours
were over, she Ind fully recognised her own lack
of skill, and was thankful enough to have an experienced
person at hand to give her directions.

For many days Leon hovered between life

and death. Long after the fever had left hin,
the doctors shook their heads over this case, and
would not say that they considered him out of
danger ; and though Jeanne exhausted herself in
efforts to get a plain answer out of these grave
gentlemen, it is needless to say that she did not
succeed. The young man's whole system had received
a shock, it appeared ; and there were complications
— not necessarily dangerous ones — still
such as must give cause for some anxiety — &c., &c.
But in the end the complications disappeared, or
were conquered ; and then it remained only to getup
tl]e invalid's strength.

And so, in the early spring days, when the
buds of the chestnut trees were beginning to show
tufts of green, and the snow was melting off the
lower mountains, and shadows of detached clouds
sailed over the ruffled blue surface of the lake, a
party of four persons was to be seen, nearly everyday,
getting into the carriage which was waiting
for them at the door of the Hotel de I'Ecu. First,
a tall, emaciated young man Avould be assisted
down the steps and into the carriage by his three
companions, who then proceeded to skirmish
round him, placing pillows under his head, covering
him up to the nose with rugs, and carrying

out their several plans for his comfort without
any regard whatever to the feeble protestations
which he apparently raised from time to time.
Having arranged matters to their satisfaction, two
ladies, an elderly and a young one, would take
their places respectively beside and opposite to the
invalid ; while the fourth person, a bronzed,
grizzle-headed gentleman, would scramble up onto
the box. Then the heavy vehicle would move
away at a slow jog-trot, followed by the eyes of
the neighbours, who had soon grown to know the
strangers well by sight, and to feel a sympathetic
interest in their doings.

The driver had very little trouble, at first, with
these quiet, accommodating people, who allowed
themselves to be guided entirely by his Lavishes
with regard to the question of destination, and
were driven out, day after day, along the most
level roads, without raising any protest against
the monotony of their routes. But as the weather
grew warmer, and the sick gentleman stronger,
they became restive, and insisted upon being taken
to higher ground — to the slopes of the Grand
Salve, or to the hills on the northern side of the
lake, whence they could get a peep of the chain
of Mont Blanc ; and if, in the course of their

drive, they espied a likely spot in one of the sunny
meadows that lay on either side of the way, they
would not un frequently call a halt, and, carrying
off the rugs and carriage-cushions, would improvise
out of their materials a couch for their
charge, would group themselves around him, and
so linger on by the hour together, quite forgetful
of the patient coachman and horses who were
awaiting their good pleasure by the roadside.

At such times as these Miss Barrington commonly
rose, after a few minutes, leaving Leon
enthroned between Saint-Luc and Jeanne, and
wandered away by herself. Poor Miss Barrington
had h>een growing more and more uneasy in her
mind ever since the first days of her sojourn in
Geneva. She began to wish most heartily that
she had not interfered with the course of Jeanne's
destiny, and to dread the consequences of her
rashness. She consoled herself a little by thinking
that, when all was said and done, Jeanne was in
love with Barrington, and not with Saint Luc.
But, dear me ! ' she would often sigh, when she
was thinking matters over in the seclusion of her
own room, ' how is it possible that she can have
made such a mistake ! Harry is a very good
fellow in his way ; but he is no more to be compared

with this M. de Saint-Luc tliaii a dickey-bird
is with an eagle. And the worst of it is that
the man simply adores her — it is easy to see that.
Harry will never adore anybody. He will break
Jeanne's heart, I dare say, before he has done
with her; and, in the meantime, she will have
broken the heart of the other lover. A pretty
mess we have made of it all between us ! '

Saint-Luc had achieved a facile conquest of
Miss Barrington. His handsome face and his subdued,
grave manners made the more impression
upon her because her nephew's description of the
Vicomte had led her to fancy him a very different
person. She had expected to meet a smirking,
gesticulating little Frenchman, with a waxed moustache,
who would be always laying his hand on
his heart, and ogling and flirting, and getting in
everybody's way ; and the actual man was so very
unlike this imaginary presentment of him, that
she would have been predisposed in his favour,
even if his devotion to Jeanne, his watchful care
of Leon, and his courtesy towards herself had
had not quite won her heart. Encountering one
another constantly by Leon's bedside, and discussing
his chances of recovery together, at other
times, more freely than they could do when

Jeanne was present, these two became fast friends.
Saint-Luc's English vocabulary was somewhat
limited, and not adapted for indiscriminate use —
being composed chiefly of pithy expressions learnt
from Anglo-Parisian grooms and jockeys in days
gone by — but Miss Barrington brushed up her
French, and, before long, she and Saint Luc where
upon a footing of perfect mutual comprehension
and esteem. And now Miss Barrington's conscience
troubled her sorely in that she was playing
a traitor's part towards this kind and unsuspecting
gentleman ; for almost every post brought her
letters from Harry, asking endless questions about
Saint-Luc and his relations with Jeanne — questions
which she had promised to answer, and did
answer — feeling, all the time, that she was no
better than a spy in a friendly camp. And so, as
the days went on, she became more and more
taciturn, and would often, as has been said, wander
away from the three younger people, by whom
her absence was scarcely noticed.

Nor was Miss Barrington the only firm friend
whom Saint-Luc earned for himself during the
long weeks of Leon's illness and convalescence.
If Jeanne's heart had been hard enough to hold
out against the spectacle of this stalwart soldier

converted into a sick nurse, and watching im-wearied,
night and day, in her brother's room
—if she could have withstood his gentleness, his
thought for others, and his determination neither
to give up hope himself, nor to let those about
him do so, her obduracy must have been vanquished
when Leon grew strong enough to relate
some of his war experiences, and to talk about
his dear colonel, of whose courage, and modesty,
and kindness he was never tired of giving instances.
The young fellow was in a very weak
state, and he could not so much as mention Saint-luc's
name without the tears rising into his eyes.
Jeanne's last lingering remnant of prejudice
against her Chance died away as she listened. To
her he was no longer the same person who had
sickened her very soul with flattery, and whom
she had almost insulted, b}^ way of return, in old
Algerian days. That Saint Luc — that card-playing,
lady-lolling, unmanly Parisian — was dead — or
rather, had never existed ; and here, in his place,
was a brave soldier, a perfect gentleman, a delightful
companion, of whose friendship anyone might
be proud.

And certainly it was true that the war had in
many respects changed Saint-Luc for the better.

Some superficial foppishness, a certain half-veiled
insolence of manner, had been purged from him
by the terrible realities amidst which he had lived
for six months. He was more sure of himself
and less sensitive than of yore. But what set
him at his ease more than anything else was his
speedy discovery that he need no longer fear mistrust
or misjudgment from Jeanne. Meeting
daily in Leon's bedroom, comparing notes as to
this treatment, discussing plans for his removal
from Geneva, and talking over the various phases
of the crisis he had just passed through, he and
she drew imperceptibly nearer to one another,
and reached at last a degree of intimacy from
which neither of them could have retreated, even
if so minded. But neither in the sick-room, nor
in the course of any of the drives and walks
which they took together by the shores of the
lake, was any reference made to the engagement
which still bound them both. That question
appeared to be, by common consent, left in abeyance.
Leon was the connecting link between
them ; and it was upon Leon almost exclusively
that their conversations turned.

But of course this sort of life could not go on
indefinitely. It was but an entrance, at the close

of which the personages with whom we are concerned
knew that they must resume their several
parts in the drama of life ; and if two of them
were in no great hurry to make a fresh start, the
remaining couple were less patiently disposed.
Miss Barrington was feverishly anxious to get the
distressing scenes which she foresaw over and
done with ; and Leon, who was heartily sick of
Geneva, and somewhat overrated his returning
strength, importuned the doctor every day to
sanction his departure for Algiers. To this, however,
the doctor would not consent. The journey
was too long and fatiguing a one, he said, to be
attempted with safety yet awhile ; but he agreed
that his patient required some change of air and
scene, and suggested Montreux, at the other end
of the lake, as being, from its sheltered position,
better suited to an invalid than Geneva ; and Leon
was rather taken with the idea. Anything to get
away from that hateful town, and from the room
in which he had passed so many dismal hours, he
said.

To Montreux the whole party accordingly
shifted their quarters one mild, sunny March day ;
and with the change, the young Marquis began to
recover health so rapidly that it was evident that

lie would not be persuaded to loiter much longer in
idleness under the shadow of the rocks and crags
which tower above this part of the smiling Lac
Leman. He began to talk, too, in a vague way,
about plans for the future, and to turn his eyes
upon Saint-Luc in a questioning manner embarrassing
alike to that gentleman and to others.

Whether it were owing to this unpleasant
behaviour on the part of Leon, or to other not
very recondite causes, certain it is that a distinct
gloom and disquietude damped the gaiety of the
quartet after their flitting. Jeanne, in particular,
lost her spirits and her appetite, and, at such times
as her brother did not require her attendance,
either shut herself up in her own room or set oft
on long rambles, in which Saint-Luc had too much
tact to offer to bear her company.

It was on the tenth day of her stay at Montreux
that she wandered up the hillside, towards
the hour of sunset, to that ugly, but finely-situated
Protestant church which is known to
thousands of Englishmen and women. It was a
beautiful, warm, still evening. The sun was
sinking in a blaze of fiery and golden clouds
behind the low purple rim of the Jura mountains ;
the snows of the Dent du Midi, and of the higher

peaks on the Savoy side of the lake, were flushed
with rosy light ; the motionless sheet of water
which bathed their base, and the villages reflected
in its glassy surface, seemed not less serenely lifeless
than they ; and Jeanne, leaning over the
stone parapet of the churchyard, and looking
down upon the peaceful picture beneath her, remembered
how, on just such an evening as this,
she had stood with Barrington on the ramparts at
Fort Napoleon, and had seen, to her dismay, M.
de Saint-Luc gallop past on his tired horse, and
vanish into the twilight shades. The scene came
back to her so vividly, and Saint Luc's image was
so present to her mind, that she was scarcely
startled when the man himself came suddenly
into view, and, slowly approaching her, sat down
on the wall by her side. She was not startled ;
but her heart beat a little more quickly, for she
felt intuitively that he had not followed her for
nothing, and that the interview which she had
been dreading for some days past was now about
to begin.

Is it not a lovely evening P ' she said, without
turning round.

'Yes. Leon wanted to come out with me.

but I would not let him. Sunset is always a
dangerous time, and lie must beware of chills.'

He is much stronger, though, this last week ;
don't you think so ? '

So mush stronger, mademoiselle,' answered
Saint-Luc, smiling, ' that Montreux has very
nearly seen the last of him, I suspect. He is
home-sick, and he is beginning to feel the want of
some occupation again — and no wonder. Man
is born to labour, and is never quite hopelessly
unhappy except when he is idle. That is one of
the things I have learnt in the last few months.
I, who am fitted for nothing but soldiering, mean
to devote the remainder of my days to that trade
■ — supposing, that is to say, that I can induce our
future rulers to give me some rank in the army.
At present I hardly know what I am — a colonel
without a regiment, or a sword, or a uniform.
Whether the coming Government will confirm
M. Gambetta's officers in their grades is an open
question. We shall cut a queer figure, some of
us, if we are so far distinguished ; but I, for one,
intend to urge my claims, such as they are ; and
in these cases it is half the battle to be upon the
spot. So I start for Versailles tomorrow morning

; and it was to bid you good-bye, mademoiselle,
that I followed on your track this
eveDinfT — which must be my excuse for having
intruded upon you.'

This was not at all what Jeanne had expected.
She was troubled and taken by surprise, and did
not in the least know how much might be intended
to be implied in Saint-Luc's ' Good-bye.'

To morrow ? ' she exclaimed ; ' that is very
short notice. Why did you not say anything
about your plans before? Why must you leave
us so soon ? '

Because you do not want me any longer,' replied
Saint-Luc, gently. ' Leon is in a fair way
towards complete recovery, and will soon be able
to take charge of you, instead of being taken
charge of. Those v>dio, as I do, hope to be missed
a little should be careful not to outcry their welcome.
Moreover, unless I return to France at
once, I shall have very little chance of getting
what I want out of those gentlemen at the War
Office.'

'And when,' asked Jeanne, looking straight
before her, ' may Ave expect to see you again ? '

Ah ! who knows ? '
Then there was a brief interval of silence,

during which Saint-Luc more than once opened
his hips, as if about to speak, and then appeared
to think better of it. At last he began : —

Mademoiselle, there is one thing that must
be said before we part. I thought, at first, that
I would go away without alluding to the subject,
and would leave Leon to explain everything to
you ; but now I feel that I would rather tell you
what there is to be told myself. You understand,
of course, that what I am speaking of is the project
of a marriage between us which once existed,
but which I, for my part, renounced all idea of
some months back. It was then that I discovered,
quite accidentally, what had been your motive
for consenting to marry me — a motive, mademoiselle,
most worthy of you, and one of which I
have no right to complain, but which, I am happy
to tell you, need no longer influence you. I must
have been very dense not to have understood
from the beginning how matters were, for I remember
that almost the first thing you did, when
we were left alone together, that hot afternoon at
El-bear — do you recollect ? — was to say something
about Leon's so-called debt to me; but I
suppose the truth is that I was too anxious to
secure what I longed for, upon any terms, to look

TOL. III. R

closely into the way in which it might come tome.
I knew that I was nothing to you ; but I
had always an absurd hope that I should make
you love me in the end, and that, somehow or
other, things would come right as soon as we were
married.'

Saint-Luc paused ; and Jeanne said, in a low
voice, ' I have behaved very badly to you, but it
was to save Leon. And I did not know then
how good you were. I thought — but it does not
matter what I thought. I am ashamed of it now
I am ashamed of myself altogether.'

Dear mademoiselle, you have no reason to
be so. You told me the truth quite plainly, only
I was too dull to understand what you meant ;
and if excuses are to be made by one of us to the
other, it is assuredly not from you that they
should come. I have done mischief enough
already by my selfishness and stupidity ; but happily
it is not irreparable ; and you will soon
forget the months of misery that you have had to
undergo through my fault — soon forget them, I
have no doubt.'

Saint-Luc broke off, with a half-stifled sigh,
and tossed a few pebbles over the parapet, while
Jeanne sat silently watching him. After a time,
he resumed : —

It was one night last November that I found
out the truth. We had been in the saddle all
day, moving hither and thither on the outskirts of
the forest of Marchenoir, in obedience to the
orders that were sent us from time to time, and
hearing the cannon always in the distance, but
knowing nothing of what was going on, or whether
our side was beaten or victorious. When the
darkness came on, we had to bivouack as best we
could, without shelter or fires — for the Prussians
might have been all around us for anything we
could tell — and as it was bitterly cold, and a few
flakes of snow were falling, neither Leon nor I
attempted to go to sleep. We sat up and tried to
keep ourselves warm, and talked about a great
many things and people — about you, among the
rest. I suppose we were both in a desponding
mood, as half-frozen and half-starved men very
generally are ; and I remember that I spoke more
openly than usual of the unhappiness and hopelessness
of my life, and said a great deal which I
need not repeat ; to which Leon rejoined at
length, that he had more reason to feel wretched
than I had, because his conscience would let him;
have no peace when he thought of what he had
brought upon you. And so, by degrees, it all

R 2

came out. It was as if my eyes had been suddenly
opened. Perhaps you may think that, as I
knew beforehand that you did not care for me,
what he said need not have startled me so much,
and tlmt it came to nearly the same thing whether
you married me because your friends wished it,
or because you wanted to relieve your brother of
a debt. But there is a difference ; and even a
very great one, to my mind. All the difference,
in fact, between a voluntary and a compulsory acton
your part. It shocked and distressed me a
great deal more than I can tell you ; and I swore
to Leon, then and there, that I would neither
marry you against your will, nor accept one single
franc of that ridiculous money from him in any
shape or form. He was a little obstinate about
it at first ; but when he saw that he was hurting
me, as well as making me angry by persisting, he
yielded, and promised me that the subject should
never be alluded to again between us. In wartime,
you see, and when a man is carrying his
life in his hand, he sees more clearly what duty
and honour really are than he can do under ordinary
circumstances, and is less likely to confound
them with the affectations which modern society
often puts in their place. Leon and I were good

friends and good comrades — he had rescued me
from being taken prisoner, and very possibly from
being eliot, only a few days before — we understood
one another, and I think we both saw that
it woukl be almost laughable that I should ruin
either his life or yours because I had once done a
silly tiling, and lead made it appear as though
some preposterous sum "were due from him to me.'

But it was not appearance ; the money was
actually due,' objected Jeanne, with her head
averted, ' and I still feel that he ought to pay
you.'

I don't think you can quite believe that in
your heart, mademoiselle ; but, whether or no, the
matter is one between him and me, and it is done
with now for good and all. And so that is the
end of my long story. I thought perhaps you
would like to hear from my own lips that, so far
as I have the power and right to say so, you are
quite free.'

Jeanne neither turned her face towards Saint-luc
nor made any reply. There are situations in
which silence seems the only possible course, and
she felt that this was one of them.

I cannot say anything,' she exclaimed at last,
in a sort of despair. ' What is there to be said ?

Ever since I have known you, I have had nothing
but kindness from you ; and, in return, I have
given you nothing but rudeness and ingratitude.
I took you for something quite different from what
you are, until the other day, when your goodness
to Leon enlightened me a little. But that is no
excuse. I can only entreat you to forgive me —
it you can.'

She extended her hand, which Saint-Luc took,
but relinquished again directly.

I wish,' said Jeanne, wistfully, ' that you
were not going away like this. I wish you could
come and live close to us at Algiers, and let us
try to show how grateful we are to you, and
always shall be, as long as wee live.'

I am afraid that plan would hardly succeed,'
answered Saint-Luc, with a rather forced laugh.
You would not be able to help tiring of my
society; and besides, I do not think you will
remain in Algiers all your life. I have been
talking a good deal with your friend Miss Barrington
lately, and I have heard from hei — something
which I was not unprepared to hear. Dear mademoiselle,
he is coming here — he will arrive tomorrow
; and that is why I am going away. There
are things which one may be resigned to, but

which one cauuot bear to watch. After a few
years we may meet again, I hope ; just at first it
would be too miserable. I always liked him,
though he was my rival, and was not very amiable
to me ; and I think he will make you happy.
But no one can ever love you more than I do.'

Jeanne did not attempt to dispute or ignore
the implication.

I am very sorry for you,' she said, simply. ' It
is no use to say that I am not worth loving, because
one does not love people for what they are worth,
but only because one cannot help it. I wish withall
my heart that I could love you, for I think
you are the best man I ever knew ; but I cannot
it is not in my power. All I can give you is
friendship ; and that you do not care for.'

Indeed I do. I value your friendship more
than anything in the world, and you will always
be in my thoughts in the future, just as you have
been in the past. Only, although we are friends,
we must remain apart — at any rate for a longtime
to come. When we do meet again, all this
pain and disappointment will be an old story, and
most likely you will think I have forgotten it.
In any case, we will never refer to it again. I
shall hear of you often through Leon, who has

promised to write to me, and I hope lie will never
have to tell me anything but the best of news of
you, and all who are dear to you.'

Saint-Luc was certainly behaving very generously
; and during the remaining half-hour that
Jeanne spent with him in the churchyard, she did
what she could to show him how deeply she felt
his generosity. But it is not easy to receive coals
of fire without wincing ; and when Jeanne went
to bed that night, and mentally passed in review
the events of the evening, she felt that she had
been awkward and ungracious, and had left many
things unsaid which she would never be able to
say now.

CHAPTEE Xxxvii

IX WHICH ALL Jeanne's troubles are dispersed.

The next morning a rather dull and melancholy
little party sat down to the breakfast table.
Saint-Luc had started very early, and was already
many miles on his way towards France. The side
of the table where he had been wont to sit was
vacant ; his chair was pushed back against the
wall ; the French newspaper from which he had
been accustomed to read extracts aloud, at this
hour of the day, lay unopened on a sofa. There
was a mute reproach in these signs that one of
the four persons who had lived together for so
many weeks in harmony had dropped out of the
small circle ; and the three who remained exchanged
sad and guilty looks while they ate their breakfast,
for they felt that they had not only lost their friend,
but lead driven him away from among them.
Miss Barrington, who, perhaps, thought she had
more cause for remorse than the other two, slipped

out of the room at the first opportunity, and as
soon as she was gone, Leon relieved his feelings
by an outburst of lamentation.

Poor Saint-Luc ! — my poor, dear colonel !
How shall I ever manage to get on without him !
I shall never have such another friend — never, so
long as I live. So generous, so good-humoured,
so ready to give the coat off his back to anybody
who had none ! Ah, my dear Jeanne, he was a
man among ten thousand, though you never knew
it — you could not very well know it, having
scarcely met him except in drawing-rooms. And
now he has gone, and perhaps we shall never see
him again. When I think of all that he has
done for me, and that this is his recompense — to
be turned out of the house so to speak '

Don't talk like that, Leon — pray don't,' interrupted
Jeanne. ' You break my heart.'

I am not blaming you, it is no fault of yours,
only I cannot help wishing it could have been
otherwise. I have been hoping for such a longtime
that, when you saw him again, and heard
how he had insisted upon giving up that claim he
had against me, rather than that you should be in
any way bound to him — I have been hoping that
you would see what he is worth, and reward him

as he deserves to be rewarded. If you were
never to fall in love with anybody — and I thought
you never would — it seemed as if you could not
have chosen a better husband than Saint-Luc,
who worships you. But there was no help
for it, I suppose. Mr. Barrington is a very
charming person, and I shall be delighted to
renew my acquaintance with him — only he is not
my dear colonel ; and when one man takes
another's place in a party of four, it is impossible
to avoid drawing comparisons between them.'

I am sorry that you are disappointed,
Leon.'

Oh, my disappointment is nothing ; it is of
his that I am thinking. Well, it is useless to
say any more about it. Women are queer creatures.'


And so Leon picked up his stick and his straw
hat, and left the room with a slow, dejected gait.
He might have spared a little more sympathy for
the sister who had done and suffered so much for
him ; but Jeanne did not resent this petulance,
knowing that convalescents are proverbially short-tempered,
and thinking, besides, that he had some
excuse for feeling chagrined at the failure of his
hopes.

After he had left her, she Scat for a long time
beside the open window, thinking over all that
had come and gone, and marvelling at the easy,
natural manner in which her troubles had been
dispersed. It seemed, as Saint-Luc had said,
almost laughable that either she or Leon should
have contemplated turning one or other of their
lives into a tragedy because of a mere error in
judgment, and she was no longer too proud to
accept the gift — if gift it could be called — which
he had made to her brother. A few months
ago she would have shrunk back in horror from
the idea of allowing any debt incurred by one of
the family — however absurd a one — to be cancelled
by the free forgiveness of the creditor ; but
she was changed, in more ways than one, from
what she had been a few months ago. Then, for
instance, she would have been overjoyed beyond
all power of expression, if by any means she
could have been set free of her engagement to
Saint-Luc ; whereas now she was not overjoyed
at all — only remorseful, almost regretful, and
more than half ashamed of the thrill of delight
with which she had heard that Barrington was on
his way to Switzerland. She was not one of those
who can manage to be happy at the cost of

suffering to others ; and at this moment her
thoughts were less with the man whom she loved
than with the man who loved her, and whom she
had been forced to send empty away. She was a
little siu-prised at herself for feeling so dispirited
now that her wildest dreams of happiness were, to
all seeming, about to be realised ; ' but perhaps,'
thought she, ' it is because I am so tired, and my
head aches so, that I feel more as thrush misfortune
than joy were coming to me.'

Ere long Miss Barrington re-appeared, and
sat down beside her, eying her the while in a
curious, half-guilty manner.

I suppose you know that Harry will be here
this afternoon ? ' she said.

Yes ; M. de Saint-Luc told me he was
coming.'

You don't look as if you thought it particularly
good news. If the perversity of human
nature puts things askew again, at the last
moment, after all the trouble I have taken to set
them straight, I shall be much more than disgusted.
I do hope and trust you are not beginning
to repent.'

To repent ? Of what ? ' asked Jeanne, turning
her grave eyes upon her questioner.

Why, of haying sent M. de Saint-Luc about
his business, of course. Surely we needn't beat
about the bush — you and I. We both know that
M. de Saint-Luc is no more going to Versailles
because he is anxious about his epaulettes than
Harry is coming here for the pleasure of seeing
me ; and I should take it as a great favour if you
would relieve my mind of doubt as to what the
end of it all is to be. I dare say you don't like
talking about it, but there is nobody here but ourselves.
Do just tell me that it is all right, and I
will pledge myself not to ask you any more questions.'


Jeanne laughed slightly. ' I suppose it is
what you call " all right," ' she answered.

Thank Heaven for that ! ' ejaculated Miss
Barrington, with fervour. ' At least, then, I have
not made any mistake about facts whatever I may
have done as to persons. I dare say you may remember
my recommending you once — like the
egregious old idiot that I am — to throw over your
French admirer, whom I had not even seen at
that time. If I had known a little more about
him, I should have advised you in quite another
sense, you may be sure ! Not that my advice
would have made much difference one way or the

other, I suppose, and, for Harry's sake, I am glad
you have chosen as you have done ; still I do feel
sorry for the other. How could you have the
heart to let him go ? I should not have done soin
your place. But then I should have fallen overhead
and ears in love with him from the first.
What made you take a fancy to Harry when you
might have had this splendid fellow at your feet
for the rest of your life ? '

Miss Barrington, you said you would not ask
me any more questions. '

Did I ? Well ; I don't suppose you could
answer such questions as my last one if you
wished. And, after all, there is good in Harry —
there must be, or he would not be so universally
popular as he is. Even poor M. de Saint-Luc,
who had no reason to speak well of him, said a
great deal in his praise. And, by the way, do
you know it was M. de Saint-luc who suggested
that I should send for him ? He said — and I quite
agreed with him — that delay would save no one
any suffering, and would keep two people out of
a part of their share of earthly happiness ; so I
telegraphed to Harry that same day.'

Oh, why did you do that ? ' exclaimed Jeanne,
in a tone of great pain and annoyance. ' I wish

you had not ! He would have come of his own
accord in time if he had wished it ; and now he
will think — he will think '

Why, Jeanne,' ejaculated Miss Barrington, in
consternation, ' you are actually crying ! My dear
girl, all this has been too much for you. Do you
know that you are as white as a sheet ? You are
not ill, are you ? '

No ; only my head aches so,' answered Jeanne,
drying her eyes.

Go up to your own room then, my dear, and
he down and rest till I call you. Don't let us
have any more tears. We are all going to be
merry now, and forget the troubles that are over,
and can't be helped, and I don't want you to meet
Harry with a sad face.'

Jeanne obeyed — not unwillingly. It suited
her mood better to be left in solitude than to listen
to Miss Barrington's moralising ; and, besides, she
was feeling really tired and unwell, and was glad
to stretch herself out upon her bed, and close her
eyes and build castles in the air, with no one to
interrupt her.

Lying thus in contented idleness, she heard at
length the hotel omnibus drive up from the station.
She heard a good deal of talking and

laughter below ; she recognised the voices of her
brother and Miss Barrington, and also a third
voice, the sound of which called up the blood into
her cheeks. And so she rose and stole softly to
the window, and was rewarded by descrying from
thence the top of a brown hat and a foreshortened
figure, clad in an English homespun suit, which,
after a few minutes, vanished under the doorway
directly beneath her. Then, as every movement
set her head throbbing, and as the bright light
outside hurt her eyes, she returned to her bed and
declined to stir, even when Miss Barrington's
maid came in with a message from her mistress to
the effect that Mr. 'Every had arrived, and that
she was expected downstairs.

I really cannot move,' she said, ' my head is
so bad. And I am not in the least hungry, so
that if you would ask somebody to bring me a
cup of tea and some toast, I would rather not
appear at dinner to-night. Will you tell Miss
Barrington, please, that I shall go down afterwards
if I feel better ? '

Miss Barrington was much amused at what
she was pleased to consider a small attempt at
coquetry on the part of her stately protegee and
was very facetious upon the subject during dinner.

VOL. III. S

Come, M. de Mersac,' said she to Leon, as
soon as the dessert had been put upon the table,
you and I will go into the reading-room and
have a look at the papers. Jeanne will be down
in a few minutes, and if there are too many of us
in this pokey little salon, we shall exhaust the
oxygen and make her head worse. I have no
doubt that Harry's brilliant conversation will act
as a tonic upon her if she is allowed to enjoy it
alone.'

Leon got up at once and held open the door.
He could not endure Miss Barrington, whose good-humoured
brusquerie always set his teeth on edge,
but he fully agreed with her as to the advisability
of their both making themselves scarce at this
particular juncture.

I will bid you good-night, Mr. Barrington,'
he said, nodding over his shoulder as he followed
the old lady out of the room. ' I am still ordered
to keep early hours.'

Good-night, and pleasant dreams to you,' responded
Barrington, cheerfully. ' I shan't be very
late, myself, I dare say. Of all the back-breaking
things I know, a journey in a French express
train is the worst, and I have long arrears of sleep
to make up.'

Our friend Barrington was in the best of
spirits. Absence, together with sundry jealous
misgivings, had fully convinced him that life
without Jeanne would be simply unendurable ;
and knowing, as he did, that the last obstacle in
the way of his union with her had now been disposed
of, he was by no means sorry that their
first meeting was not to take place in the presence
of witnesses.

He was not kept waiting long. Miss Barrington
and Leon had barely been gone five minutes
when Jeanne appeared at the door — a tall white
figure, looking dim and shadowy in the failing
light. Barrington started up with an exclamation
of joy, and presently, by some means or other —
how it happened he could hardly have said — he was
holding Jeanne in his arms, and her face was
hidden on his shoulder, and the supreme moment,
which had been deferred so often and so loner, had

come and none like a flash.

*^

About half-an-hour later the lovers were
sitting together by the open window, holding one
another's hands, as if they feared that something
might come between them again if either of them
let the other go.

My darling,' said Barrington, ' you are not

looking at all well. I did not believe much in that
headache when my aunt spoke of it, but now I
begin to be afraid it is genuine. Or is it
that you have been wearing yourself out with
nursing ? '

Oh, no, it is not that! ' answered Jeanne. 'I
think,' she added presently, with something between
a laugh and a shiver — ' you will not be
very much alarmed, I hope — but I think I am
going to have the scarlet fever.'

Scarlet fever ! Good Heavens ! You are not
speaking seriously, are you ? What makes you
think so ? — why did you not say anything about it
before ? What are the symptoms of scarlet fever P
Sore throat ? Have you a sore throat? '

Barrington flew into an absolute panic. He
ordered Jeanne off to bed, found out the address
of the nearest doctor, and despatched a messenger
in search of him ; summoned his aunt and Leon,
put all manner of senseless questions to them, and
fidgeted from room to room, worrying everybody
with inquiries and suggestions, and ' making as
much fuss as a singed blue-bottle,' grumbled Miss
Barrington, who did not choose to meet trouble
half-way, and could not be brought to see that
there was any reason as yet for all this alarm.

The doctor, however, when he came, was
rather inclined to support Jeanne's own idea of the
cause of her indisposition. He could not give any
decided opinion before the next morning, he said ;
but he was bound to warn the young lady's
friends that her symptoms were of a rather disquieting
kind ; and at the expiration of a few hours,
there was no longer room for two opinions as to
the nature of the case. Scarlet fever it certainly
was, albeit, to all appearance, in a mild form ; and
when once the fact was incontestably established,
Miss Barrington was as much perturbed by it asher
nephew could have wished. If this had happened
a fortnight ago, she said, she would not
have complained so much ; they had all known
that, then, there was a fair chance of such a misfortune
occurring. But that it should have come
now, when they had given up even thinking of
danger any longer, when Leon had been officially
reported free from infection, and when there
had seemed every prospect of the dawn of
happier times, was, to say the least of it, very
bad luck.

Look at the expense of the thing alone ! It
only remains for you to be taken ill, Harry, as
soon as we have accomplished our next move,

and for me to follow suit on the stage after, and
we shall have made the fortune of four hotels, and
crippled our resources for years to come. If you
had seen our bill at Geneva ! I don't blame the
people for asking what they do, because of course
it must be a horrid nuisance and a great loss to
them to have scarlet fever patients in their house ;
but really one must be a millionaire to afford
oneself these luxuries more than once in a Lifetime.'


As if it mattered ! ' cried Barrington, indignantly.
' I would gladly give up half of what I
have in the world to see Jeanne well again. I
know you will laugh at me. Aunt Susan, but I
can't help having a conviction that she will not
get over this. The very first time that I saw her,
I felt sure that she was predestined to misfortune ;
and all the time that she was with me last night, I
was haunted by a foreboding that something must
happen before long to separate us. It is useless to
reason about it, but it is beyond a doubt that
there are certain people who are born to unhappiness.'


There are certain persons who are born fools,'
retorted Miss Barrington, with much asperity.
If you are going to talk that sort of rubbish,

Harry, instead of making yourself useful, you had
better be off home again, and I will bring Jeanne
back to you as soon as she is in a fit state to travel.
You put me out of all patience with your nonsensical
fancies. I believe you would be more
than half resigned to losing her if you could only
be sure of taking part in an affecting death-bed
scene before she went.'

That is neither a true nor a kind thing to
say,' answered Barrington, quietly. And the old
lady had the grace to feel a little ashamed of her
hasty words.

There, there, Harry, you know I did not
mean it. I forgot myself,' she acknowledged
frankly, ' and I beg your pardon. To tell you
the truth, I have been thoroughly upset by different
things these last few days, and I suppose
this was the last straw. Please overlook what I
said, and forget it.'

The good-natured Harry readily consented to
overlook his aunt's thoughtless speech ; but he
could not quite forget it — nor, indeed, was the
poor old lady herself destined to do so. For,
alas ! Barrington's sinister presentiment turned
out to be only too well founded, and Jeanne's
portion of earthly happiness, it appeared, was

likely to be a brief one. Almost before they had
realised that her life might be in danger ; almost
before they had become accustomed to the idea
that she was ill, she was sinking fast. The
doctors were as powerless to save her as were
Leon's frantic prayers and Miss Barrington's obstinate
belief, which held out to the last, that she
would be able to pull her protegee through in spite
of all the doctors in the world. Her illness was
neither so long nor so severe a one as her
brother's had been ; but, for all that, she could not
rally from it ; and those about her were forced to
admit, at length, what many others have had to
acknowledge before them, that what, in their first
horror and incredulity, they had cried out against
as impossible, not only could be, but was.

And so it came to pass that, on a warm spring
evening, Jeanne lay on her bed, with a sorrowful
little group around her, waiting for the end. The
windows were wide open ; the curtains were
fluttering with a cool breeze that was blowing in
from the lake ; broad sunbeams streamed across
the room, and fell upon the wooden floor and the
white wall, and upon Jeanne's wasted hands, as
they lay on the counterpane. No one could have
died more peacefully. She was too weak to

speak much ; but she looked round upon them
all — upon Leon's pale, tear-stained face — upon
]\Iiss Barrington's rugged features, which were
twitching a little, in spite of their owner's fortitude
— upon Turco's big white head — lastly upon
Barrington, who was kneeling by her bedside.
And there her eyes rested longest.

If only M. de Fontvieille and M. de Saint-luc
and Fanchette were here, I should have no
one left to wish for,' she said once, with the ghost
of a smile.

She sent messages to these absent friends,
assuring them of her loving remembrance, and of
her contentment and her willingness to leave the
world. ' We shall all be together again very soon,'
she said, with that forgetfulness of time and change
which often seems to come over those who, for
their part, have nearly done with both. The last
Sacraments had been administered to her some
hours before. At length, towards sunset, she
begged to be left alone with Leon ; and he,
coming out, after a few minutes, but not being
able to speak, signed to Barrington to take his
place in the chamber of death, and then went
away and hid himself.

What passed between the dying girl and the

man whom she loved with a love deeper than he,
perhaps, could even understand, need not be set
down here. It is hard to be called away from
life just when life has acquired a meaning it never
had before, and when all the forfeited future
seems full of brightest promise. It is hard to
sink powerlessly into that impenetrable darkness,
that profound silence, towards which those loved
ones who are left on earth must stretch out their
hands in vain. And though in some — as in
Jeanne de Mersac — faith is strong enough to rob
the grave of its victory, yet there is, and must
needs be, a sting in death which youth could
hardly bear were it not for sheer physical exhaustion.
Barrington has never spoken of that last
scene to any of his friends ; and. Barrington is a
man who, with a very little encouragement — or
even without it — will speak upon most subjects.

When he came out of Jeanne's room again,
he was very pale, but more composed than Miss
Barrington had expected him to be.

Is it all over ? ' she whispered.

No,' he answered ; ' but there has been a
change in the last few minutes. She does not
seem to know me, or to notice anything anymore.
I think she has fallen asleep.'

And so it proved to be. Leon came back
after a time, and the three kept watch while the
daylight waned, and darkness fell, and hour after
hour slipped b}^ ; but Jeanne slept peacefully on,
and never spoke or opened her eyes again.

They "watch'd her breathing thro' the night,

Her breathing soft and low,
As in her breast the wave of life

Kept heaving to and fro.

But when the morn came dim and sad,

And chill with early showers,
Her quiet eyelids closed — she had

Another morn than ours.

CHAPTEE XXXIX.

CONCLUSION.

Miss Barrington was sitting in the nursery of a
country-house the other day. The children had
all run out, and she began to turn over the leaves
of the numerous picture-books which lay upon
the table. A volume of Hans Andersen's Fairy
Tales had found its way among them, and the old
lady, opening it at hap-hazard, dipped into the
middle of the ' Ice Maiden.' She glanced over
a few pages of the story, and then grew interested,
and read it through to the end, where the hero
sinks beneath the blue waters of the Lake of
Geneva on the eve of his marriage-day, and the
poor little bride is left weeping on the island on
which, but a few minutes before, the happy pair
had been telling one another that earth had now
nothing more to bestow upon them. 'Do you
think this a sad story ? ' asks the author, in his
quaint, friendly way, at the conclusion. These

two were parted at the moment when, as they
had said, earth had nothing more to bestow upon
them. How would it have been with them if
their wishes had been fulfilled, and they had gone
back to their home in the mountains as man and
wife ? The night before, the bride had had a prophetic
answer to this question, in the form of a
dream, which consoled her somewhat in the midst
of her distress.

Miss Barrington took off her spectacles and
wiped her eyes, into which the tears had risen
while she had been reading. It was some years
since she had turned her back sadly upon this
same Lake of Geneva, leaving on its shores the
body of one who had become very dear to her,
though their friendship had been but short, and
who had been snatched away not less suddenly
than the young chamois hunter in the ' Ice
Maiden.' Would earth have had anything more
to bestow upon poor Jeanne if her life had been
spared? Miss Barrington wondered. And then
she shook her head, sighed, laid down the book,
and went to the open window, whence she could
see the children playing in the garden, and the
sun setting behind the Scotch firs in the park.

Would Harry have made her happy, I

wonder ? ' murmured the old lady, vexing herself
with a question which can never be of the slightest
importance again. ' He was frantic with grief at
first, and then, for more than a year, he went
about looking so miserable that it made one's
heart ache to see him. And now he is married
to that dull, devoted Helen, and has got three
children. It all sounds very heartless and horrible
; but of course it is not so. It is only human
nature, and the way of this hard world, which I
am three-parts sick of myself. He seems happy
enough ; but I think he would have been happier
with her ; and perhaps — perhaps she would have
been happy with him. But I don't know. One
never can tell.'

Those whose judgment of Barrington's character
has been formed from long acquaintance, and
is unprejudiced by any ties of relationship, feel
less uncertainty upon this point. It requires no
very profound insight into human nature to perceive
that a marriage between Barrington and
Jeanne de Mersac must very soon have ended in
disappointment and loss of illusions for one, if not
for both, of them. Barrington himself was aware
of this, and was in a great measure prepared for

it. He knew that, after a time, he would inevitably,
whether he willed it or not, drift away from
his wife, fall back among old associates and into
old habits, and occupy himself with interests and
amusements in which she could have no share.
Life cannot be one long honeymoon, he would
probably have said, with a sigh over the impossibility
of so blissful an arrangement, and so
would have submitted with resignation to the
sway of natural and social laws. Such, no doubt,
is the common lot. But Jeanne, as it happened,
was an exceptional person ; and it is very unlikely
that friendship would ever have been
accepted by her in lieu of love, or the real Barrington,
as he would have gradually become
revealed to her, in the place of the wholly imaginary
person to whom she had given all her heart.
And perhaps — for there is no such thing as perfection
on earth — her temper would have become
soured in the long run, and she would have grown
morose and silent, and vexed her husband by
appearing at breakfast with a sad face, which
thing the present Mrs. Barrington is not likely
ever to do.

Everyone acknowledges that there are many

worse misfortunes than an early death ; but the
sudden removal of a young and beautiful girl,
into whose hands all the brightest prizes of life
seem to be on the point of falling, naturally excites
more pity and sympathy than the ordinary run of
human sorrows ; and when the same post brought
to Algiers the news of Jeanne's engagement to
Barrington, of her illness, and of its terribly
swift ending, a feeling akin to consternation
spread among the ranks of all who had known
her there.

Poor old M. de Fontvieille took to his bed as
soon as the intelligence reached him, declaring
that he had now nothing left to live for, and that
he would never leave his room again. But as he
was not ill, and as he got very hot and uncomfortable
lying in bed all day, he had to get up
again eventually, and go about as usual. He died,
in fact, only a short time since, leaving his jewels
to Leon's wife, by whom they are worn, to the
admiration of all Algiers, and even of Paris, upon
occasion.

And so the memory of Jeanne de Mersac, and
of her untimely fate, has well nigh faded away.
How long, and by how many people, can anyone

expect to be remembered after death ? Jeanne,
during her Lifetime, had had but few friends, and
of those few M. de Fontvieille is no more ; Leon,
though he has not forgotten his sister, has ceased
to mourn for lier, having a wife and a young
family to occupy his thoughts ; and Barrington,
when he thinks of her at all, thinks of her rather
as a beautiful, lost vision, than as one who might
]have passed her life with him here, and whom he
may yet encounter hereafter.

But in one of the large garrison towns of
France there is a certain Colonel of Chasseurs-cheval,
a lean, patient, taciturn man, much beloved
in his regiment, as being both a keen
soldier and a good friend to all who stand in need
of help, and looked upon with awe and respect
by his officers as a ' man with a history,' the
nature of which has been the subject of many a
bold flight of fancy — a man, too, who, as the
famous Vicomte de Saint-Luc, is reported to have
made all Paris open its eyes in bygone days. To
this grey-headed Colonel Jeanne de Mersac is in
no wise dead, nor has ever died ; and when he
kneels, as he does nearly every day, in the cathedral
of the town where he is quartered — for he is
VOL. III. T

a most devout and orthodox Catholic — he never
fails to ask that he may meet her once more, in
the fulness of time, where ' they neither marry
nor are given in marriage, lout are as the angels
of God.'

THE END.

London : PUII^TKO RY

SPOTTISVOOOE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

And Parliament STREET

Each Work complete in One Volume, price Six Shillings.

WITHIN THE PRECINCTS. By Mrs. Oliphant,

Author of ' Chronicles of Carlingford,' &c. With 8 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo. 6s.

FOR PERCIVAL.' By Margaret Veley. With

8 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 6s.

FAR FROM THE MADDING CROWD. By

Thomas Hardy. With 6 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 6s.

THE HAND OF Ethelbert. By Thomas

Hardy. With 6 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 6s.

C Aria. By Mrs. Oliphant, Author of ' Chronicles
gf Carlingford,' c^c. Cheap Edition. 8 Illustrations. Crown
8vo. 6 c.

OLD KENSINGTON. By Miss Thackeray. Crown

8vo. 6s.

THE VILLAGE ON THE CLIFF. By Miss

Thackeray. Crown 8vo. 6s.

FIVE OLD FRIENDS AND A YOUNG

PRINCE. By Miss Thackeray. Crown 8vo. 6s.

TO ESTHER, and other Sketches. By Miss

Thackeray. Crown 8vo. 6s.

BLUE BEARD'S KEYS, and other Stories.

By Miss Thackeray. Crown 8vo. 6s.

THE STORY OF ELIZABETH; TWO

HOURS; FROM AN ISLAND. By Miss Thackeray.
Crown 8vo. 6s.

TOILERS AND SPINSTERS, and other

Essays. By Miss Thackeray. Crown 8vo. cis

ANGEL ; FULHAM LAWN. By Miss

Thackeray. Crown 8vo. 6s.
Blandly REEFS. By Lady Verney, Author of

Stony Edge,' &c. Crown 8vo. 6s.

Lattice LISLE. By Lady Verney. With 3 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo. 6s.

STONE EDGE. By Lady Verney. With 4 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo. 6s.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

POPULAR Works

Handsomely bound in cloth gilt, each volume containing
Four Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 3^-. 6</.

THE SMALL HOUSE AT Arlington.

By Anthony Trollope.

Frame PARSONAGE.

By Anthony Trollope.

THE Clavering.

By Anthony Trollope.

TRANSFORMATION : a Romance.

By Nathaniel Hawthorne.

ROMANTIC TALES.

By the Author of 'John Halifax, Gentleman"'

DOMESTIC STORIES.

By the Author of ' John Halifax, Gentleman. '

NO NAME.

By WiLKiE Collins.

ARMADALE.

By WiLKiE Collins.

AFTER DARK.

By WiLKiE Collins.

MAUD TALBOT.

By Holme Lee.

THE MOORS AND THE FENS.

By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

PUT YOURSELF IN HIS PLACE.

By Charles Reade.

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.
