40^ i

*,%ir

m.

i

,ir-tht;



'• X

CENTRAL CIRCULATION BOOKSTACKS

The person charging this material is responsible
for its renewal or its return to
the library from which it was borrowed
on or before the Latest Date stamped
below. You may be charged a minimum
fee of $75.00 for each lost boole.

TfMft, mutilation and undermining of boolcs are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result In dismissal from
the University.
TO RENEW CALL TELEPHONE CENTER, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

When renewing by phone, write new due date below
previous due date. L162

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/altiorapeto01olip

Frontispiece, Vol. I.

BY

LAURENCE OLIPHANT

AUTHOR OF ' PICCADILLY,' ' TRAITS AND TRAVESTIES,' ETC.

IN TWO VOLUMES— VOL. L

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

Edinburgh AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXIII

All ni'jhtii reign-ed

Mel

^

'^

CONTENTS OF THE First Volume.

CHAP. PAGE

I. altera's first problem, . . . . 1

II. Altera SOLVES THE PROBLEM, . . .18

III. THE CALIFORNIANS, . . . . . .44

IV. THE FINANCIAL TRIUMVIRATE, 64

V. SARK AND " THE CLYMER," 78

VI. Altera CAPTURED BY THE CALIFORNIANS, . 93

VII. MRS CLYMER MEANS MISCHIEF, . . . .109

VIII. RONALD MACALPINE's KELTIC ENTERTAINMENT, . 127

IX. Stella's confidences, 145

X. MR Muckle makes A DOUBLE PROPOSAL, . .159

XI. A PASSAGE OF ARMS, 175

XII. FLIGHT AND PURSUIT, 195

XIII. THE DUCHESS OF BEAUCOURT, . . . .211

XIV. BEAUCOURT CASTLE, 224

XV. THE EARL OF SARK AT BAY, . . . .242

XVI. A LITTLE Fashionable CONVERSATION, . .261

XVII. LADY ADELA Washington, . . . .276

CHAPTER I.

ALTIORAS FIRST PROBLEM.

Mamma wants to know what I am always scribbling,
— if she was a more sympathetic person
I shouldn't always scribble — I should pour my
heart out into her confiding bosom instead of
upon blank sheets of paper ; but it is not possible
to feel one's self bursting with thoughts
without giving them expression in words. If
they are not spoken ones, they must be written
ones. I have always had a strong impression
that I should have found a congenial nature in
the late Mr Peto — I mean papa — who died
before I was born, and who was a profound but
eccentric philosopher, with a quaint vein of

VOL. L A

humour, of which, indeed, I am the victim ; for
his dying request to mamma was, that if I was
a girl, I should be called Altera — thus making
me the subject of a gentle pun, that will stick
to me till I die, or marry. It was a sort of
moral legacy which he left me in default of anything
more substantial — a perpetual reminder
that I was to soar ; and then he peacefully
passed away, " from waste of nervous tissue,"
at least that was what mamma says the
doctors called it. They might as well have
said protoplasmic decay, or simpler still, " want
of breath," as far as any real apprehension of
the matter on their part went.

I have a great many odd feelings about papa :
one is that I am morally convinced that the
whole of my character is affected by the fact
of his having died prior to my birth. Although
I am not a spiritualist, I have an indefinable
consciousness that he has, in consequence, been
able to exercise an occult influence over me
from the first moment of my existence, which
would not have been possible had he remained
in the flesh. One of my earliest recollections
is overhearing mamma say " that I was
the strangest child " - — that she couldn't make

me out — that I was old-fashioned. It made
an impression upon me at the time. I must
have been about five then, and I have been
thinking over it ever since, until it has acquired
the force of a positive certainty — that in a sort
of way, if I may venture so to express myself,
I am pervaded by his essence, and that, both
morally and intellectually, his spiritual nature
in some subtle manner is constantly operative
Tvdthin me. I suppose that is why I have so
little sympathy with other girls. In the first
place, life does not seem to present them with
any problems ; they believe everything they are
told, take everything as it comes, see no contradictions
anywhere, and do not seem haunted by
the standing obligation which has been laid upon
me to "seek higher things." They grovel; — I
don't wish to seem uncharitable — but they really
do, and are content. To me life is a perpetual
enigma, to which no theological system offers a
satisfactory solution — against the reefs of which
all philosophies break into foam and empty
bubbles. Though I am scarcely nineteen yet,
I could have hopelessly puzzled either the Archbishop
of Canterbury or Mr Herbert Spencer
when I was ten. It was at that early age, when

subjected to youthful struggles in regard to the
claims of what was called my 'conscience," that
I first became alive to the perplexing questions
arising out of the nature and composition of
what was called my " will." And to this day
I can give no satisfactory definition of the word
"freedom" in connection with it; but then I
am still very young. Perhaps if I had arrived
at some conclusion I should know better what
to do about Mr MacAlpine. We have taken a
cottage in the Highlands for the season, and
Eonald MacAlj)ine is the younger brother of
Lord MacAl23ine, from whom we have rented it.
We have seen a great deal of each other during
the last three weeks ; and his constant presence
suggests a problem that other girls seem to have
no difficulty about. I have never experienced
the sensation before, but I feel no moral doubt
that I am in love. To me love is a puzzle, to
them it is a pleasure. I don't mean to say that
there is not a good deal of. pleasure in it, but
that makes the puzzle all the more annoying.
What is it? Where does it come from? Did
it first come from him or from me ? I don't like
going headlong into a thing without knowing a
little more about it. Shall I go this afternoon

and take a sketch on the beach, where he will, in
the most promiscuous and accidental manner,
certainly go for a stroll ? He has found out the
quiet corner where the rocks are so picturesque,
but he does not go there unless he sees me, because
he says they're nothing without a bit of
colour in the foreground. So I think I shall
escape him by putting on my black dress, because
I really ought to finish my sketch.

Let me analyse. First, there is no necessity
to finish the sketch. What was it in me that
tried to humbug me with a pretence of duty ?
Second, I should not avoid him by dressing in
black, and I knew it when I internally proposed
it. Evidently the same influence with the same
malign intent. Third, and still more subtle,
when he came I could pretend that, by not
wearing colour, there would be no attraction in
the foreground, and that, therefore, I wanted
to avoid him, when I really did not, and that I
was surprised to see him when I really was
not ; in other words, false assumption of maiden
modesty. I don't exactly know the definition
of coquetry, but I should say this was a near
approach to it, and must be resisted. It is
evident there is a strong impulse acting on my

will to go and meet him. I suppose it is the
force of attraction. If so, what is the nature
of the force ? Is it magnetic ? And how
does it operate on my will in such a manner
as apparently to paralyse it ; and then what becomes
of its so-called freedom? I suppose if
I was to tell the learned persons who talk
about waste of nervous tissue, that I found Mr
MacAlpine a highly magnetic individual, they
would reply, " Pooh, pooh, my dear young lady !
don't use unscientific terms — you're in love,"
and consider that a scientific explanation. But
I suppose love is a force, just as, I am told, light
and heat are, and may be made of molecules, for
all they know to the contrary. I wonder why
they cannot subject it to scientific analysis. It
has a very distinct effect on the circulation of
the blood, that is certain, or my heart would not
beat so when I see what I suppose I must call
the object of my affections " in the distance.
No doubt, when he perceives the bit of colour he
is looking for on the beaches the same thing happens
to him, and yet he has never uttered a word
which betrayed his feelings. Hitherto we have
discussed principally the beautiful nature by
which we are surrounded, from a philosophic and

aesthetic point of view. We have discoursed on
the science of taste and its possible refinements
with our lips, while our hearts seemed to be saying
something quite different. I don't know
how, but they have. The worst of it is, that
this silent language is quite irrepressible. Just
when my countenance is most impassive and my
mind most concentrated in its attempt to grasp
the ideas of my companion, that rebellious organ
seems to bawl its unspoken language the most
loudly. Probably here, again, it is the same
with him. This arises, I presume, from what we
termed " the hidden laws of sympathy," whatever
they may be.

I have just come back from the beach. 1
went there deliberately — or, in other words, because
I could not help it ; I was drawn. So I
did not go through the farce of pretending that
I was either surprised or annoyed when I saw
Eonald appear. I call him Konald now — not, of
course, to his face, but to myself. He is tall,
dark, and in his Highland dress looks the heau-
ideal of a Scottish chief. I am afraid, even if he
had not been so very clever and agreeable as he
is, I should still have liked him on account of
his tout eiisemhle. Why this mysterious sentiment,

which I am now experiencing for the first
time, should depend so much upon the accident
of external appearance, is another puzzle. Can
it be possible that so deep a passion can really
have any connection with clothes and colour, or
that I should have felt differently towards him
in trousers ?

We were both slightly embarrassed when we
met thus "accidentally on purpose," as it were,
to use a somewhat slang expression ; and yet
I don't know why we should have been, — there
was nothing to be ashamed of. I became internally
indignant, and conscious of a strong instinct
of maidenly reserve struggling with a self-assertion
which I take to be nearly allied to woman's
rights. Of course I don't know what emotions
were contending in him, but he looked decidedly
nervous, and I think I became uncomfortable
sympathetically.

How do you like the bit of colour in the
foreground?" I said; and I showed him his
manly form arrayed in a bright red kilt of his
own tartan, which I had just painted in.

"You do me too much honour, Miss Peto,"
he replied, and his face for a moment reflected
the tints of his garment. " I should much preferred

to have seen you there : but the omission
may easily be remedied," he added timidly ;
"there's room enough on the beach for both of
us, you know."

As this was an obvious truism, I proceeded to
put myself in at the opposite corner of the picture,
with my back to him. " All pure coquetry,"
I said to myself as I did so, " or else a degree of
shyness amounting to insincerity." Why should
modesty make one dishonest ? I should have
liked to paint us in the attitude of Millais's pictures
— he holding my face between his two hands,
and looking lovingly down into my eyes, while
I looked tenderly up into his.

He was looking; over me as I was thinking
thus, when he said, suddenly, " I know what
your thoughts are. Miss Peto."

Do you ? " I said calmly, again forcing my-see
to lie horribly by the cool indifference of my
face and manner, for I was in an internal agony
of agitation and alarm lest the quickness of his
sympathy should have actually divined what
was passing through my mind.

Yes," he said. " You think my remark impertinent,
and this is how you are rebuking it."

On the contrary, I thought what you said

very natural. Why should we not both be on
the beach in the picture, since we are both upon
it in fact ? "

Yes ; but ive seem to have quarrelled in the
picture, and we have not in fact. Do you know
how I should like to be painted ? " and he gently
but firmly took my hand and pressed it to his
lips. Of course I should have liked to let him
keep it, so I snatched it away, and suddenly began
to tremble very violently. This shows how
utterly incapable the will is under certain circumstances
to control the organism. The hatred and
contempt I felt for my own body at that moment
was indescribable. Why should it possess
a power of humiliating me at a time when all
my feminine instincts, which, I suppose, are my
noblest, made me wish to disguise my real feelings
towards him? On the other hand, what
was there humiliating in allowing him to perceive
that I returned his affection ? If I was
angry with my body for humiliating me, I felt
equally angry with my soul, or whatever the
other part of me is, for feeling humiliated. I
got so absorbed in this physiological dilemma,
that for a moment I forgot all about him, and
putting down my paint-brush — it was my left

hand lie had kissed — I clasped them both together
and gazed vacantly out to sea.

'dear Altera," he went on, "forgive me; I
spoke too suddenly, but it was quite impossible
for me to restrain my feelings any longer. Ever
since we first met I have waited for this supreme
moment. I know that I am only a younger son,
and have little to offer you but a heartfelt love,
and a nature all sympathy." And so he went
on, — I suppose very much the usual things only it
sounded rather as if it had been prepared beforehand,
still it was very pleasant to listen to at
the time. I forget a good deal of what he said,
for I had so many conflicting emotions to contend
with that I did not attend very closely. I
think the predominant one was an all-pervading
sense of content and happiness, and for some
reason my eyes filled with tears. I wonder why
one thought has the physical result of producing
water in the eye, while another will make all
the muscles round one's mouth contract with
laughter. Evidently the physical result is conditioned
on the moral attribute connected with
the emotion. In other words, these various
emotions are forces, and act dynamically on
the organism according to their moral composition,

totally irrespective of the will. When
Konald saw my unresisting eyes filled with tears,
and an involuntary expression of deep joy flushing
a countenance over which I had lost control,
he took me in his arms. I had already risen
under some undefinable impulse, and in another
moment we were in the attitude my mind had
pictured, and which had previously suggested
itself to Millais. Then I laid my hand on his
shoulder and wept silently, and gently disengaged
myself, and felt I ought to say something.
I had not known what to say as yet — at least
not out loud. Of course my heart had been
saying a good deal, but I felt it was not to be
trusted under the circumstances — and, in fact,
that it was seriously disturbing the normal
action of the brain. So I said softly, "Please
go away, and let me sit down and think."

"I will let you sit down," he replied, "but
don't drive me away ; and as for thinking, has
not your heart told you all ? what more do you
want to know? It has told me, darling, that
you love me."

"My heart does not think," I answered, " and
I have not told you anything yet. You've
taken me so much by surprise, I don't know

what to say. Please don't ask me to answer yon
now ; " and then, in despair, I took refuge in the
duty I ought to have thought of at first, and
rising to go away, said, "besides, I must ask
mamma."

I will come here tomorrow at this hour to
hear her decision," he said, as he gave my hand
a parting squeeze which I continued to feel for
some little time afterwards.

I wondered as I walked home whether I had
behaved as other girls would have done under
the same circumstances, and confessed to a sense
of mortification in the reflection that my conduct
had not been by any means so strikingly
original as I should have predicted it would have
been whenever an event of so much importance
should occur to me.

I have already said that my mother and I
never understood each other, and I had a sort of
presentiment that this was a subject upon which
we should be more than ever mutually incomprehensible.
For some reason she never seemed
to like Eonald MacAlpine, and I thought had
always behaved rather rudely to him. As, however,
she had been educated in France, and, indeed,
had lived most of her life in Paris before

her marriage, and could never quite get over her
foreign prejudices, I thought it might only be
his bare knees she objected to, and it would be
ridiculous to allow them to be an insuperable
obstacle to our marriage, particularly as we
should probably live in England, where he would
have to abandon his native costume.

I may here incidentally observe that it has
always been a matter of astonishment to me
how a mother and daughter could be so unlike
each other; and after reading Mr Galton's book
Heredity,' I quite regretted that I had no
brothers and sisters, as, I am sure, we should
have presented extreme varieties of type. As
it is, I suppose I take after my father. I am at
least six inches taller than my mother, who is a
stout, round, brisk, little woman, very practical
and matter-of-fact, with a nez retrousse, light
hair, grey eyes, and a temper to match ; whereas
I am dark, tall, and by no means rapid or impulsive
in my movements, and if I may venture
to say so, equable in disposition, though perhaps
not as yielding as I ought to be. She was knitting
with unwonted rapidity when I went into
her room to tell her what had just occurred on
the beach, and I judged from the pace at which

her fingers were moving that lier thoughts were
of an agitated character.

Where have you been, child ? " she hurst out ;
it is past six, and the tea is quite coal. I told
you the other day that I disapproved of these
afternoon disappearances. You told me at lunch
you were going into your room to write."

So I did, mamma," I replied ; " and when I
had done writing, I went down to the beach to
sketch."

It had become evident that I could not have
chanced upon a more unpropitious moment.

•'' Let me look at your sketch," she said suspiciously.
" Why, you seem to have put yourself
into it. Who is the man in the kilt ? "

The gentleman in the kilt," I returned with
emphasis, for I felt stung by the sneer, "is Mr
Konald Mac Alpine, and it is about him I wish to
speak to you. He has just asked me to be his
wife."

His wife, indeed," said my mother with a
sort of snort. "What business has any man,
much less a bare-legged pauper, though he is the
brother of a ruined Scotch peer, to speak to you
on such a subject ? It is more than impertinent,
it is positively indecent. If he had any sense of

propriety, lie must have seen that I did not encourage
him ; and if you had had any sense of
propriety, you would have kept out of his way,
and not permitted yourself to be insulted. I
feel quite ashamed of you."

I don't think there is anything to be
ashamed of," I retorted; ''I did not propose to
him, though I am not sure that I should have
felt ashamed of myself if I had. It has always
struck me as an anomaly," I continued, musingly,
which I have never been able to explain satisfactorily
to myself, why a woman should not be
allowed to choose her husband as freely as a
husband chooses his wife."

My recent experience had been a practical
refutation of this theory, but my mother had
roused my spirit of contradiction, by her unreasonable
opposition, to a degree which made
me overshoot the mark the other way. I am
constantly in the habit of doing this in argument,
and it often puts one at a terrible disadvantage.
It did upon this occasion. Instead
of putting my mother in a rage, she laughed.

I am glad you have spoken so frankly," she
said. " As you have taken the matter so completely
into your own hands, and as you are so

fond of your pen, you can write him a letter
which I will dictate. And for the future remember
this, — you may propose to as many menas
you like, but the man you will marry will bethe
man of my choice, not of yours ; and the
person to whom he will make the proposal will
be me, and not you. Now," continued my
mother — who, as I have remarked, was a woman
of very prompt action — "there is no time to be
lost ; " and she rose and prepared the writing
materials. *' Here is a pen," — and placing a pen
in my hand, she threw herself back on the couch,
half closed her eyes to facilitate the task of composition,
and began — " Sir."

At this point I could struggle against my
pent-up feelings no longer. Throwing down the
pen, I rushed up to my room, locked the door,
burst into an agony of tears, — and there I am
still. *

VOL. L B

CHAPTER 11.

ALTIOEA SOLVES THE Problem.

I HAVE not seen anybody since yesterday, except
the maid, who brought me in some dinner.
This does not arise from temper, but from the,
absolute necessity which I feel imposed upon
me by my name to analyse my emotions calmly,
review the situation, and think out deliberately
what, from the highest point of view, is the
right thing for me to do. My brain was so
disturbed at first, that after I recovered from my
fit of weeping, I read an article of Mr Matlock's
to soothe it — then I reflected. First, there was
my duty to my mother; then there was my
duty to Ronald ; and last, but not least, there
was my duty to myself. Then I thought of a
higher duty than any of these — one which comprised
them all. The problem has, of course,

often been presented to young ladies before in
some form or other, but it is not until one has
to deal with it one's self that one discovers the
extreme difficulty of its solution. I had scarcely
begun to reason it out before I found that I
was not in possession of all the premisses.
First, I was in total ignorance of the nature
of the sentiment in my own case with which
I had to deal. I had, it is true, a certain
empirical knowledge of it, but it had only fully
and powerfully developed itself in me within
the last twenty-four hours, and those had been
so stormy that I had been unable to analyse
anything. Then if I could not define exactly
what I felt myself, how was it possible to know
what Eonald felt ? And finally, as the whole
affair was purely subjective, and affected only
us two, what in the world could mamma know
about it ? It seemed to me that the right course
for her to have pursued would have been, first,
to give me all her own experience (for she had
been married before she married papa, besides,
-I believe, having been several times in love in
her youth) ; and then, when she had told me all
she knew about it, she ought to have advised
me not to give any definite answer to Eonald,

or to act hastily, but to explain to him, that
the question being one upon which the happiness
of our lives depended, we must search ourselves
thoroughly, so as to guard against any
mere superficial feeling, and put ourselves through
various tests and ordeals. My own impressionis
— but of course I speak without the smallest
experience — that it is a matter upon which it
would be impossible to come to any safe and
definite decision within a year; and if mamma
had left it to my judgment, that is what I should
have told Eonald, and no amount of supplication
on his part would have made me change my
resolution. Instead of which, the more I think
of it, the more it seems to me that the speech
which she made me was utterly irrational and
absurd. It amounted, in fact, to this, that I was
to have no voice in the selection of my own
husband. The only argument in favour of this
mode of proceeding is, that I believe it is the one
adopted by the French. Perhaps as they are
rather a logical people, they may have a good
reason for it ; but I shall certainly ask mamma to
explain it to me. In the meantime, it is quite
impossible for me to come to any decision until
I know why she objects to Eonald. Clearly

my course is, therefore, now that I have had a
night's rest and am cain, to discuss the subject
with her in all its bearings as fully as I can
induce her to do ; and then, before acting in
any way, to come back and think. I shall, at
all events, have more data to go upon.

I had just come to this determination, when
a smart tap at the door warned me that the
object of my meditations was upon the other
side of it. I was glad of this. I have a theory
that environment is not altogether without a
sort of moral value. As people are made up of
forces, by which they are reciprocally affected,
either positively or negatively, it is not unnatural
that these should be affected by the conditions
attaching to certain localities. Thus I should
be more positive to my mother in my own room,
surrounded as it were by my own moral atmosphere,
than I should be in hers, where, on the
contrary, she would have a corresponding advantage.
Dogs, which I take to be remarkably
sensitive animals, magnetically furnish so striking
an illustration of this, that it has become
proverbial ; and we constantly witness most abject
cowardice on the part of a dog, succeeded
by defiant confidence, by mere contact with his

own doorstep. I am always conscious of deriving,
in some subtle manner, a moral strength
of some sort, conditioned on my surroundings ;
and hence it was that I said, " Come in," to my
mother, with a feeling of some relief. She was
in a very amiable mood, suspiciously so, and
came up and kissed me — rather an unusual thing
with her.

My dear," she said, " you took me so much
by surprise yesterday, that I am afraid I spoke
with more warmth than I should have done,
if I had been prepared for the news you communicated
so abruptly and unexpectedly. Let
us talk it over quietly now, and I think I shall
be able to convince you that I am consulting
your own interests in refusing to consent to
sour marriage with Mr MacAlpine."

I have no doubt," I replied, " that you would
not have spoken so strongly without good reason,
and I was just coming down to ask you to tell
me what it was when you knocked."

Well, dear," she went on, " from inquiries
which I have made, I find Mr MacAlpine's income
amounts to £300 a-year, which his brother
allows him. It is true that he has been called
to the bar, but, so far as I am aware, he has never

held a brief ; and I should say, from what I am
informed of his habits of life in London, if he had
one, he would be extremely at a loss to know
what to do with it. Still, as he is the brother
of a peer, and has a certain social reputation of
a flimsy kind, as a dabbler in literature, music,
and art — though I am not aware that it adds
very materially to his resources — I don't know
that I should have been so decided in my opposition
if the Baron and I had not formed other
plans for you ; and when you know what these
are, I feel sure that you will quite agree with us.
Last year we were obliged to go abroad, so the
next will be your first London season; and it
would be foolish of you to make up your mind
in these barren hills on a question which affects
your whole future, until you know what the
world has to offer. Believe me, my dear child,
we shall spare neither pains nor money to make
you a success."

But, mamma," I said, " I don't want to be a
success. I don't think it likely that I shall find
any one in London I like better than Eonald ;
and I shall refuse every offer, if any are made,
no matter how advantageous they may be, for
his sake, if I find, on further acquaintance, that

we thoroughly suit each other. You see I am not
in the least impulsive or romantic on the subject."

Well, darling," she replied, '' I don't wish to
press you ; I merely wish you to understand the
necessity of not committing yourself in that
direction, because neither your step-father nor I
will ever consent to your marrying Mr MacAlpine.
You will very soon get over the passing
sentiment you entertain for him. I know this
love from experience. Before my marriage with
my first husband, the Baron's partner, I was very
much admired, and indeed was engaged once to
an Italian officer, to whom I was passionately
attached, but his parents would not hear of the
match : he was killed afterwards in a duel." And
my mother touched her eyes with a corner of her
pocket-handkerchief. " And Mr Crombie, my
first husband, attended his funeral ; for poor
Victoria had remained my greatest friend after
my marriage. There are so many kinds of love,
dear, as you will find out when you have more
experience, and the one need not necessarily extinguish
the other."

Part of this speech took me so excessively by
surprise, and part of it was so enigmatical, that
for some moments I felt bereft of the faculty of

speech. The idea of having several kinds of love
at least outside of one's natural affections for
one's relations — was so entirely novel, that I felt
I should have to think over the whole matter
alone in my room ; so I said, " Thank you, dear
mamma ; I am very much obliged for this explanation,
and I will think about it."

But, dear, I want you to act upon it. You
must not allow Mr Mac Alpine to remain any
longer under a delusion."

I can only promise you," I replied firmly,
*' that I will immediately give the matter my
most earnest consideration. Until I have done
that, I absolutely decline to commit myself to
any course of action."

How the child takes after her father ! " said
my mother, rather snappishly, aloud to herself.
Then seeing I was perfectly fixed in my resolution,
she came and kissed me again, and said, as
she left the room, " Well, dear, now that you
know what my wishes are, I will rely upon your
sense of duty to give effect to them, without
dictating to you the method in which it is to
be done."

My mother made a mistake when she made
that spiteful allusion to my father's firmness.

She would not have been guilty of the indiscretion
in her own room ; but I have always felt
that mine was pervaded by his influence, and it
was forced out of her in spite of herself, as she
became instinctively conscious that I was inspired
with his fixed determination of will, which imposed
itself upon hers, and induced her to refrain
from pushing me any further. In all that she had
said, it was the one sentence that imparted a profound
comfort, and certainly decided me, as far
as in me lay, to avoid taking after my mother.

And this, again, led me to ponder upon that
strange fate which always presented itself to my
mind under a veil of mystery, which had snatched
the author of my being from this earth before I
had appeared upon it ; and I gazed upon the
photograph, which was my greatest treasure,
with a never-flagging wonder and curiosity. My
mother was very reticent in regard to my father,
with whose pursuits she evidently had had but
little sympathy. She says the subject is too
painful for her to recur to, and shrinks from all
allusion to it with so much feeling, that I have
avoided all reference to it for some years past.
All that I know of him is, that he was the only
son of a superannuated old general, from whom he

inherited a large fortune, which had been made
in India, and that my grandmother, who had
died some years before her husband, was a daughter
of the Earl of Sark. I am consequently full
second cousin of the present Earl — a fact which
my mother seems far more alive to than the Earl,
though he is almost the only relation I have got,
at least that I know ; for my mother's belongings
all emigrated to Australia when she was
young, and from hints that she has let drop, I
think she began life as a governess with an
Italian family, and then she married Mr Crombie,
Baron Grandesella's partner. They were merchants,
or in business of some sort, I never could
quite make out what ; but after his death she
married papa, who died before I was born, and
then she married the Baron.

Ever since, in my early childhood, my attention
was called to a duckling which had been
hatched by a hen, I had seemed to occupy the
same unnatural relation to my mother. The
Baron always made the impression upon me of
a turkey gobble, in a perpetual state of strut,
and Mr Muckle, the Baron's partner, of a hawk,
who only refrained from pouncing upon the
hen and the gobble because they were too big.

but who never took his carnivorous eye off
me. I feel him perpetually hovering above
me. If ever there was a man whom one
word could describe, " Muckle " is the man, and
'pounce" is the word. This is the sort of
domestic barnyard in which I have been brought
up. I have roamed with the gobble, the hen,
and the hawk through all the capitals of Europe.
We took contracts, we founded banks, we obtained
concessions, we started companies. The Baron
swelled and strutted through the financial political
world of Europe, Mr Muckle pounced upon
it, and my mother made friends with other hens,
and scratched its surfaces, and pecked away at
what she found with great assiduity. We have
always lived with the extravagance of potentates,
I don't mean German princes, but magnates of
the highest order. That I was being carefully
brought up for something, I soon discovered; but
nothing could cure my unfortunate propensity to
swim — in other words, to study. I was unable
to have a laboratory, and go in for chemistry as
I should have wished, because of the regulations
against travelling with explosive materials ; but
I had a trunk full of books on science and philosophy,
which broke the backs of the railway

porters, and the heart of my mother, — at least it
injured, if not her heart, her temper. I steadily
objected to wasting my time on what are termed
accomplishments. The Baron spared no expense
to procure me the best masters, but in vain.
Languages came to me as naturally as any other
kind of swimming ; and I have a taste for art,
which is the chief consolation of my mother, who
always tries to make me display my erudition on
the subject in society, which I naturally decline
to do ; in fact, if there is a thing I detest, it is
society. As for the purple and fine linen in
which both my mother and myself are arrayed,
the money spent upon it annually would maintain
hundreds of starving pauper families. The
Baron, who used to allow me an ample allowance
of pin-money, cut me down last year because
mamma discovered that I made what she called
an improper use of it in relieving distress ; but I
have, nevertheless, several pensioners in various
parts of the world, whom I maintain on the sale
of the lace and embroidery which I unpick from
the flounces of my petticoats, and send them the
money by post-office orders : Johnson, my maid,
who enters enthusiastically into my schemes,
being pledged to secrecy.

The effect of being so entirely out of sympathy
with my belongings, and of finding myself forced
into a life so little congenial to me, has been to
develop my inherited tendencies in a premature
and irregular fashion ; and it therefore becomes
all the more essential, now that the important
question of choosing a partner for life is concerned,
to be quite sure that we are thoroughly
in accord as to our hopes and aims. So far I
had not had any opportunity of discovering
whether Konald, under his agreeable social exterior
and varied accomplishments, possessed those
qualities and moral aspirations which I longed
to find in some one to whom I could unburden
my own feelings. These are subjects one does
not rush into lightly; and so reticent is my
tendency in regard to them, that I did not
wonder at his silence on questions affecting the
deeper problems of life. It became, therefore,
extremely necessary to know what we had in
common, and only right that, before going any
further, I should explain to him the conclusions
to which my reading and reflections so far had led
me, and my notion of what I considered to bethe
end and object of my existence. I therefore
had some luncheon in my own room, and without

going through the farce of taking my sketchbook,
strolled down to the rocks, upon one of
which I perceived him seated, gazing pensively
seaward. So absorbed was he in meditation,
that he was not aware of my proximity till I
spoke to him.

My darling ! how you startled me ! " he exclaimed,
jumping off his perch with pleased
surprise. " If I had not been thinking about
you so deeply I should have heard you. What
an agony of suspense I have been in since yesterday
! and now," he said, looking at me eagerly,
*' the expression on your face tells me nothing to
inspire hope."

'' I do not mean it should," I answered calmly,
but I felt such a strange tightening across the
chest that speech became an effort. " Mamma is
absolutely and firmly opposed to my entertaining
any proposal from you, and will listen to no
argument on the subject, so it is useless your
recurring to it, either with her or me. I am
bound to obey her wishes in the matter; but
even if I were not, I should have other things to
say to you before I could arrive at a decision.
I think it right to tell you this, lest you should
imagine from what passed yesterday, that, putting

me out of the question, I had no difficulties in
my own mind to encounter."

The intensity of the effort which this speech
caused me, imparted a harshness to it that I
could not have avoided without bursting into
tears ; and now, when I saw what suffering it
produced, the trial of nerve was in no degree
lessened. My knees were trembling, and my
heart was beating so violently, that it suddenly
occurred to me to try and restore the moral
balance by a little physical pain. Under this
impulse I leant my whole weight upon my hand,
which rested upon an edge of rock. The ragged
point was so sharp that it cut me deeply, and
under other circumstances I should have been
unable to restrain an exclamation of pain. As
it was, it acted like a sedative. The effect of
physical pain and moral suffering on each other
is very curious. First, I have a disagreeable
duty to perform, and the moral effort gives mea
physically painful constriction of the chest ;
then I hurt myself by cutting my hand on a
rock, and feel morally strengthened, and therefore
physically relieved. I suppose these are
very crude reflections, and that it is perfectly
well known by science exactly what physical

pain and what moral suffering are, and where
they originate. Of course I did not make them
at the moment ; but the impulse under which
I acted proved a sound one, for Eonald was so
taken up bandaging my hand, which was bleeding
freely, that we were both able to talk more
calmly afterwards.

I can understand your mother's objection,"
he said ; " with her it is probably merely a matter
of pounds, shillings, and pence : but I don't understand
why, if she had consented, you would still
have required time for reflection."

I should have required to know more of your
character, your aims in life, and your aspirations,"
I answered ; " and I should also have
needed some more information than I now possess
as to your views in regard to those deep and
mysterious problems which have ever agitated
the bosom of humanity, as it is of the utmost
importance that two people who propose to pass
their lives together should be in entire sympathy
upon subjects so vital."

I thought it best to come to the point at once,
for I was quite prepared to assert my rights as a
girl who would soon be a woman, and in a position
to defy the maternal authority, if I found

VOL. 1. c

him thoroughly satisfactory and sympathetic.
An amused smile passed over his countenance
as I made this innocent, and, as it seemed to me,
very pertinent observation.

Have you solved the problems of which you
speak ? " he said.

I had in my pocket notes for an essay which
I was engaged in writing on "The Anomalies
of Civilised Existence, as Tested by Intuitive
Aspirations in Ideal Life," but I was afraid of
boring him by reading them to him ; so I explained
to him shortly, that though my experience
of life had been brief, I had lived long
enough to discover that the popular theology,
so far as its practical social working was concerned,
failed to satisfy my religious instinct,
and that I had therefore determined to adopta
method of moral research which, so far as my
investigation went, had not been attempted,
even by the most eminent reformers of ancient
or modern times. Those who endeavoured to
inculcate a new religious idea, if it had any
connection with another world or a future life,
had always started with the assumption of an
inspiration which it was impossible rationally
to verify, and which contained the new moral

truths that they offered to the world for its
guidance and salvation ; while, if it had no such
connection with the unknown, it became a cold
system of philosophy — as, for instance, those of
Confucius and Plato, or Comte — which had never
been acceptable to the masses, .because they appealed
so much more to the intellect than the
affections. In other words, the attempt of reformers
and philosophers hitherto had been invariably
to endeavour to construct the life out
of the religion, instead of the religion out of
the life, by either an act of faith or an effort
of intellect out of practical experiment.

"Then," said Eonald, delightedly, "we agree
entirely, and sympathise thoroughly. We neither
of us know anything, or believe anything — in
other words, we are both agnostics."

He had no sooner made this remark than I
felt that all was at an end between us. It was
evident, that if he could so little understand
my principle of thought, after the clear explanation
I had offered him, as to confound it with
agnosticism, the very foundations of mutual sympathy
were wanting. I thought, however, that
it was only due to him to explain this ; so I
observed that I was so very far from being an

agnostic, that I could only account for his supposing
me to be one on the hypothesis of a weakness
of intellect on my part ; and I left him to
infer that, in my opinion, it included one on his.

On the contrary," he replied, " it is considered
an evidence of advanced and enlightened
thought. How can we know anything more of
ourselves than that we are phenomena? And
since we are nothing but phenomena, how can
there be anything else that isn't a phenomenon ?
Everything in the universe, and outside of it —
if there is anything outside of it — must be all
of one piece."

How," I said, " knowing nothing, and having
no means of knowing anything, do you know
that you are a phenomenon? And what is a
phenomenon? If you start on the assumption
that you know nothing, argument becomes impossible
; if you assert that you know anything,
you are not an agnostic."

"Pardon me," he replied; "I know that both
you and I exist, but it is impossible for me to
know anything as to the cause or nature of
our existence."

"That last assertion is assuming a good deal
of knowledge for one who knows nothing. Pray,

do you consider love a plieuomeuoii in regard
to the nature and cause of which you know
nothing ? "

"Ah, it is the most extraordinary and inexplicable
of all phenomena, darling, for you : I
know that it exists, so for as I am concerned,
—why should I care to know more ? "

Because, without knowing more, it is evident
that we should both make a mess of it," replied
I, somewhat brusquely. ^' I for one believe that
all phenomena, as you call them, are governed
by law. How do you account for the world
going round the sun ? "

Just as I account for my coming to meet
you to-day — by the phenomena, not the law,
of attraction."

"Well," I said — for a certain flippancy of
presumption in his manner of dealing with so
momentous a subject offended me — "it has produced
in me the sensation of repulsion, and I
am the less distressed at it because you know
that it is impossible for you to discover the
cause of it. It is a simple phenomenon which
will not bear discussion ; it exists, that is all
either of us knows ; further investigation is hopeless.
We met, we were both attracted, we

exchanged a few ideas ; you remained attracted,
while I was repelled. Curiously enough, while
I am attracting you, and you are repelling me,
we both suffer, and shall continue to do so
until a new series of phenomena occur. That,
I think, is the history of our little romance,
looked at from an agnostic point of view." I
concluded bitterly, and felt a suspicious desire
to blow my nose, which a false pride prevented
my doing at the moment, while my eyes were
so full of tears that I scarcely dared to wink
them. As far as I could analyse my feelings
at the time, this emotion was not the result
of any noble or tender sentiment, but of sheer
vexation and disappointment.

At this critical moment a step on the shingle
arrested our attention, and turning round I saw
a large and somewhat ungainly man, dressed in
an exaggerated tourist costume of checks and
knickerbockers, whom I at once divined to be
no less a person than the Baron himself.
"Ah," thought I, "he has been telegraphed for."
Mamma evidently began to suspect something
some days ago. She must consider the matter
serious. I had no idea I was growing into such
an important personage.

As he approached he stretched out his arms
as though he expected me to rush into them,
and his face seemed to beam with affectionate
eagerness. " Ah, my little Ora ! " he called out,
he had adopted the last syllable of my name
as a pet appellation, preferring it to Ally," which
was the only other alternative ; my mother never
condescended to abbreviate it, — " have I found
you at last, hidden away among the rocks like
a sea-gull, my picturesque beauty ? " and he folded
me slowly in his elephantine embrace. 'rand
my good friend MacAlpine, how well you are
looking ! but who would not, in that grand
costume ? Ah, how I envy you Highlanders !
what traditions, what poetry, what romance ! "
and after shaking hands with him, he drew back
to give him the full benefit of his admiring
gaze. He had only seen Mr MacAlpine once
before, but this was too good an opportunity
of plunging into familiarity with the brother
of a peer to be neglected.

You are both surprised to see me, no doubt,
but, as the French say, there is nothing certain
but the unexpected. Muckle telegraphs me
from Paris that my presence is required there
without delay on business the most important.

You have perhaps heard of the nature and extent
of our operations, MacAlpine. Everything
on these occasions depends upon promptitude
of action ; but I cannot sever myself from my
domestic treasures. Wealth, life itself, is valueless,
unless shared by those we love. Is it not
so, ma coterie ? What pleasures sacrifices become
under such circumstances ! How delightful
was my journey rendered by the anticipation
of meeting my wife and daughter ! — though we
have not been so long separated."

When are we to start. Baron ? " I asked,
anxious to put an end to the torrent which I
knew by experience would flow without interruption
till we reached the house. I never
would call him " papa," though he had repeatedly
urged me to do so ; but I felt that the
sacred name must not be so profaned.

I can only allow you one day for packing,
Puss. You know how expert your mother has
become by long practice in these sudden moves.
And you, MacAlpine — when shall you tear yourself
away from your native heath ? "

"I don't know," said Eonald, gloomily, who
was evidently a good deal depressed by this
second blow to all his hopes. The difficulties I

had created he evidently had not thought serious,
but the prospect of having to part finally from
me now rather overcame him.

'' He is an agnostic, and does not know anything,"
I added maliciously, for I was still smarting
under a certain self-satisfied presumption he
had shown in our argument.

'parbleu'' said the Baron. "An agnostic
in a kilt — what an odd combination ! Now if
you had said an aesthete, I could have understood.
Is a kilt aesthetic, Ora ? You understand
art, and ought to know. Why should
we not seek to adapt the habits and costumes
of our ancestors to the thoughts and tendencies
of the day ? Why is an agnostic in a kilt more
incongruous than a financier in knickerbockers ? "
and he looked down complacently on his own.
What knight-errant was it who, in the days of
chivalry, used to wear a sun-flower as his badge ?
He may have been an aesthete."

Here the Baron's breath was providentially
checked by the steepness of the cliff" up which
we had begun to climb, and at the top of it we
stopped to rest and give Eonald an opportunity
of bidding me a last farewell. I saw the Baron
eyeing us narrowly as he did so, so I gave him

no clue to my feelings by my manner ; and we
strolled on leisurely, lie volubly expatiating on
his activity and devotion to his family and his
affairs, and I scarcely listening — ruthlessly scattering
to the winds the seeds of that affection
which for the first time in my life had just
begun to sprout, for an object that had proved
unworthy.

So ends the history of my first delusion. I
wonder whether the experience of my life is to
be that it is made up of them — whether the
satisfaction which most people seem to derive
from existence, arises from the fact that they
live on the surface, and don't dig deep enough
to find that it is made up of illusions. That the
financial operations of the Baron and Mr Muckle
are, has long become clear to me ; that the
social ambitions of my mother are, is no less
evident. All the three individuals with whom
my life is most closely associated are pursuing
shadows, and they persist in dragging me with
them. Next year I am to be launched upon the
society of London, and no pains are to be spared
to make me a success — in other words, to make
me another illusion ; that is what it comes to.
The only things that seem to me real are poverty,

sickness — suffering of all sorts. I am
strongly inclined to think that if you go deep
enough, everything else is sham. But perhaps
that is only because I am young, and my experience
of life so far has had a tendency to make
me morbid. There must surely be another side
to the medal; and on that hypothesis, I solemnly
dedicate my life to its discovery.

CHAPTER III.

THE CALIFORNIANS.

In the entresol of one of the most recent and
spacious constructions of Haussmann, near the
Arc de Triomphe in Paris, sat two young ladies
of the type which has ceased to produce the
astonishment among Parisians that greeted its
first appearance, and has become of late not only
recognised, but rather the mode than otherwise.
They had evidently just arrived ; for the room
still bore traces of the litter of unpacking, and
an angular, middle-aged woman, with severe
lines about the corners of her mouth, and a long
thin nose with a bridge like a razor, was performing
the process usually known as 'studying
up."

My sakes ! " she said, pausing for an instant
in her occupation to look out of the window.

Where air all them carriages a-driving to ? If
so many people want to go along that road,"
she went on, looking contemptuously down the
Champs Elysees, " I wonder why they don't have
a car-track along it ! On Sunday, too ! Why,
they can't be all a-going to church — can they, my
dear ? They are all a-going the same way," and
she sank her voice apologetically, as though
fearing she might have done the gay crowd
which was then streaming out to the Bois, a
wrong.

Oh you silly innocent old Hannah ! What
fun it will be completing your education and
teaching your antiquated idea how to shoot !
Why, that is called the beau nonce, going out
for a drive in the Bois."

Oh, the bo mawnd, is it ? And what's the
Bwa ? They do seem in an awful hurry to get
there. Now, from the looks of them men" —
and she gazed critically at the occupants of the
roof of a four-in-hand — " if that's what they are
on a Sunday, I guess there ain't much to 'em on
a week-day. You don't tell me that you've
come all the way from California to find husbands
among them chaps ? "

Now, Hannah, you mustn't talk so disrespectfully

of the male sex because you happen to bean
old maid. And we haven't come across the
Atlantic to find husbands at all, but to amuse
ourselves and inform our minds ; and we've
brought you — you faithful old thing ! — to take
care of us, and see we don't get into mischief.
And you needn't think it necessary to go about
dusting every hole and corner any more, but
leave that to the French servants. And now
you had much better go and rest yourself, and
leave us to our own devices, — only don't forget
that I am Stella and Stella's me." At which
somewhat enigmatical absurdity both the young
ladies burst into a fit of hearty laughter, and the
old one smiled with a grim knowingness as she
left the room.

Oh, Mattie, what a joke it will be, trifling
with all their budding, hlase, or blighted affections,
as the case may be ! " And the two girls
walked to the window and looked out upon the
victims they intended to sacrifice with a calm
confidence which, considering they had only
reached Paris early that morning for the first
time in their lives, proved they where not novices
in the description of warfare they proposed to
enter upon in the Old World. One of them was

tall, graceful, and strikingly handsome. It was
not she who had made the last remark, however,
betokening so much certainty of their power for
mischief, but her companion, who was a good
deal shorter, and who made up for her want of
looks — for her features were irregular and rather
plain — by the extreme brilliancy of her eyes, and
the intelligence and mobility of expression.

I wonder that Keith has not come to see us
yet," said the tall one. " I sent round the first
thing to tell him we'd arrived."

What kind of a man is he, anyhow ? " asked
her friend,

'* That's just what I want to know. I saw his
photograph once — dreamy blue eye, tawny moustache,
plenty of biceps, languid, drawling, aw-aw
kind of person, I should judge. The hero of the
period, you know — pretends to have brains, but
to be too lazy to look for them, which is a
capital way of concealing their absence. I shall
call him Keith right away, and if he's got any
sense he'll offer to kiss me. It would be only
natural, as his mother was my aunt. She married
an attache, or a secretary, or a consul, or
something connected with English diplomacy at
Washington. There he had become a minister

and an ambassador, or something of that sort,
and my aunt became Lady Hetherington, and
then they both died, leaving some sons and
daughters. I never saw any of them, of course,
as I was born in California ; and I never expected
to, till you asked me to come to Europe
with you to see life and make acquaintance with
my English cousins. What a first-rate idea that
was ! Oh, I quite forgot," said the girl, suddenly
interrupting herself. " My ! why, it's you he's
got to kiss ! "

Well, I don't think the tawny moustache will
much mind making the mistake ; still, for the
sake of appearances, we ought to decide before
he comes which is his cousin. It would not do
to give him a bad impression of her at the
outset. Now, shall we take him into our confidence,
or are we to change places and names
at once? am I henceforth during our stay in
Europe to be Mattie Terrill, and are you to be
Stella AValton ? Because, if so, you must post
me up thoroughly about the late ambassador and
your aunt and cousins."

Oh, that don't matter," laughed her friend,
whom we must henceforth call Stella. "We'll
put it all down to Western ignorance. What

are benighted beings on the Pacific slope expected
to know about their English cousins ?
You can be as ignorant as you like. Won't it
be a joke ? I do hope he'll turn out a nice
fellow, and that you'll fall in love with him,
Mattie. We'd all three stay in Europe and have
splendid times. Mind you begin by calling him
Keith. The only important thing you've got to
recollect is that you're a pauper. Left very badly
off, poor thing, in consequence of that terrible
crash in mining-stocks, which ruined your poor
pa; and I must never forget that I am the
heiress, the lovely Bonanza, the fairy princess
of nuggets, the celebrated Stella Walton."

"Wasn't it lucky," said her friend, "that the
moment I became an heiress I was said to be
beautiful ; and that Cedar Buttes was such an
out-of-the-way place, that it's a thousand to one
if we meet any one we ever saw before ? and if
we do, we must swear them to secrecy. I guess
the celebrated Californian heiress and her friend
will play such a trick on old Europe as will
astonish its gilded youth and its match-making
mammas ; while it will save me from the dilemma
of never knowing whether the impecunious
European grandees whom I captivate want

VOL. I. D

to marry me for myself or my money. Oh,
Stella, I shall so enjoy seeing them all at your
feet. Only remember dear, they'll all be making
love to you for my money, so don't go and lose
your heart to any of them. There he is," she exclaimed,
as a ring at the bell announced a visitor.

Excepting that he had a long fair moustache,
and may possibly have possessed biceps (for he
was a well-made man of six feet), the photograph
had evidently conveyed an entirely wrong impression
of her cousin to Stella. His eye was
anything but dreamy, and there were depths in
its dark blue which, so far from denoting the
absence of brains, suggested that they were present
in an unusual degree. Moreover, there was
nothing either languid in his manner or drawling
in his speech, and he approached the girls with
a frank cordiality which they were not slow to
perceive and reciprocate.

I am Mattie Terrill, Cousin Keith," said the
shorter girl, with a charming air of innocence,
and this is my bosom friend, Stella Walton, the
great Californian heiress, you know. How kind
of you to answer my letter so promptly ! I
thought I might venture so far on our relationship."


I should never have forgiven you if you had
been a day in Paris without letting me know,"
said Keith. "You must consider me while you
are here as absolutely devoted to your service. I
suppose you are not alone, Mattie. You don't
mind my calling you Mattie ? "

Why, of course not. How do you mean about
our not being alone ? I guess we are old enough
to take care of ourselves. There's Hannah, to be
sure, but she hardly counts."

Mr Hetherington looked rather embarrassed
and turned to her companion, who, while this
dialogue was going on, had sat demurely silent.

We're both orphans, you know, Mr Wethers
she now observed, " but are not the less
able to protect each other. Besides, if the men
get very dangerous, we can always take refuge in
flight. I confess I rather hoped that we might
enlist you as our knight-errant." And as she
glanced at him confidingly, Hetherington thought
he had never seen such lovely long eyelashes.

"Oh, there is no real danger," he answered,

laughingly ; " I was thinking of the proprieties.

Paris, you know, which is the least proper city

in the world, is the most particular about these, —

perhaps that is the reason. I wanted your whole

Library

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois

party to come and dine with me to-night at
Bignon's, and I did not know how many it
consisted of; and then, if you don't mind its
being Sunday, we could go to the theatre afterwards.
Would you kindly tell me," he added,
somewhat shyly, " who Hannah is ? Perhaps we
might take her too."

•'' I am afraid Hannah would not understand
French notions of propriety ; for she would think
it horribly improper to go to the theatre on
Sunday, and does not think it at all improper
our travelling alone," said Mattie. " We brought
Hannah with us as an antique, to give us a
sort of air of respectability and impose upon
foreigners, but not to participate in our amusements,
which she would not enjoy, or to act as a
restraint upon us, except when we asked her to.
We thought she might be useful in case of sickness
; and as the dear old thing has no one to
care for her at home, and is very poor, and has
known me ever since I was a child, I told her to
come along. She's the daughter of a Methodist
minister, and taught school, — in the primaries, of
course, because she only had a third-grade certificate
; so her grammar is faulty. For all that,
she knows a good deal more than you or me ; but

I think she would be a sort of fifth wheel to the
coach to-night, even if she would come."

Then it is agreed," said Hetherington. " I
will call for you with the fourth wheel, who is a
friend I am living with, this evening, and we shall
make a loathe carrie. I am sure you will like
Bob Alderney, Mattie."

If he is half as nice as you are, Keith, I am
sure I shall," responded Mattie, with a frank
laugh. " I predict we are going to have a lovely
time in Paris ; and then we'll all go to London
for the season."

Oh, Mattie," burst out Stella, when the door
had closed on Hetherington, " why, he is perfectly
splendid ! Not a bit like what I expected. I am
real' jealous to think that he imagines you his
cousin all the time. I was quite afraid he would
give you a brotherly salute when he went away.
What voices these Englishmen have ! — so melodious,
ain't they ? And how nicely his clothes do
sit ! If his friend Bob Alderney is only up to
the same notch, what a pair of beaux we shall
have ! This," she said as she rose and struck a
melodramatic attitude in the middle of the room,
surpasses my most sanguine expectations."

True to time Hetherington appeared with his

friend, who was about three inches shorter than
himself, with a black beard and an eyeglass, both
in evening costume, — a fact evidently gratifying
to the young ladies. They each carried
bouquets.

I must tell you," said Hetherington, after
introducing his friend, as he presented his bouquet
to Stella, " that it is not the custom in Paris
for young men to make presents of bouquets to
young ladies as it is in America ; but we thought
you might have neglected to provide yourselves
with any. So far as we are concerned, you may
always rely upon us, — mayn't they. Bob ? only
don't do so in the case of others."

Stella, who in her capacity of heiress, wore
Mattie's jewels, and was otherwise most becomingly
attired, looked so radiantly bewitching asher
eyes sparkled with the excitement of anticipation,
that poor Bob was almost too dazzled to
reply with a promptitude befitting the occasion.
In fact, he was only recalled to duty by Mattie
saying, " Is that lovely bouquet really for me,
Mr Alderney ? " upon which that gentleman
rapidly dropped his eyeglass and stammered an
apology as he handed it to her in such confusion
that she laughed and said, "Ah, I see, as Mr

Hetlierington says, it is not the custom, but
you'll soon get used to it. How do you propose
going, Mr Hetlierington ? It's too far to walk."

Yes, but I have two copes at the door ; if
you will get into one with Bob, I will take Stella
with me."

Most of us are too familiar with Paris to realise
the first impression which its afternoon and evening
life, bubbling over into the boulevards from
the cafes, is calculated to produce ; but Hetlier-
ington and Alderney had the full benefit of the
original observations and gushing spontaneity of
their two companions, whose experience of life
thus far had been limited to San Francisco and
Virginia city, and to whom the novelty and
excitement of thus independently launching
themselves upon the glittering surface of Parisian
existence produced a brilliant gaiety, which
seemed .irresistibly fascinating to the young men,
accustomed to the more reserved and languid
beauties of their own society.

It was difficult to say which was the more
sparkling, the Moselle or the conversation, at that
never-to-be-forgotten first dinner at Bignon's, at
the end of which Stella had decided that, asa
distant cousin of hers had married a distant

cousin of Mattie's, they were all cousins together,
and it was ridiculous for her to call Keith Mr
Hetherington, especially as they were likely to
be so much together ; and that, if they began
calling each other by their Christian names at
once, it would be a protection to all, and be much
less particular than if they put it off until later.
And Bob Alderney looked so miserable at being
left out in the cold, and pleaded so hard to be
considered somebody's cousin, and have the same
protection thrown over him, and protested so
eloquently that he was c[uite as much a cousin
to Keith as Stella was a cousin to Mattie,
and that distinctions of this sort were invidious
and harm might come of them, that it was
decided that he should be included, as no one
need know that they had not been intimate from
their childhood.

The Gymnase did not contain a merrier party
than the four who comfortably filled the box
which Hetherington had secured ; and the attention
of the girls was equally divided between
what was going on on the stage and the dresses
of the ladies ; while the beauty of Stella Walton
was creating an evident sensation, and during
the entrance a whole battery of lorgnettes was

opened upon her from the stalls, without, however,
in the smallest degree ruffling her self-possession.

That fellow ought to know Stella again when
he sees her," whispered Alderney to his friend,
availing himself of his newly acquired privilege.
He has never taken his eyes, or rather his
glasses, off her since the curtain rose. See, he
is waving his hand to you ; " and Hetherington
saw a tall, dark, handsome man, with raven hair,
a hooked nose, a curled moustache, and a lithe
figure, a flower in his button-hole, and a large
expanse of shirt-front under his white tie, nodding
to him familiarly.

It's Muckle, the great contractor and financier.
I met him several times in Florence, but I
didn't know I was so intimate with him as he
seems to be with me. I believe he has just got
into Parliament. See, he's making signs."

He wants you to go and meet him in the
foyer" said Alderney. " Let's go ; if what the
world says of him is true, he has brass enough to
come here, and perhaps that would be awkward."

The probability is," answered Hetherington,
that his object in wanting me to meet him in
the foyer is to ask to be presented to the ladies,
and it really is compromising. He is probably

quite under a mistake as to who our companions
are. This comes of introducing American manners
into Paris."

Perhaps the young ladies themselves will bethe
best judges as to what ought to be done."

What are you two whispering about instead
of amusing us ? " interrupted Stella at this moment.
"You don't mean to say that you have
a secret into which we are not to be admitted ?
Who is that enormously fat man, with a blue
sash across his shirt-front — and what's that thing
like a cheese-plate on his chest ? — leaning over
that equally fat white-powdered woman with the
bare shoulders, and the diamond necklace, and
the double chin? There! she's just rapped him
on the knuckles with her fan, and he seems to
be kissing the place to make it well. What a
comical old pair! They can't be courting at
their time of life, and they can't be married.
Yet it's for all the world like some sort of love-making."


"It is love-making of a particular kind," said
Hetherington. " He is a celebrated foreign ambassador,
and the star on his breast is a decoration
; and she is Madame la Comtesse Polishes
a female Eussian diplomatist, and she is

pretending to make love to him in order to find
out the secrets of his Government, and he is pretending
to make love to her to find out the
secrets of hers. The love part of it, like the
purity of her complexion, is all sham; but I
want to ask your advice." And Hetherington
went on to tell her of the celebrated financier,
who had by this time disappeared from the stalls,
and whose knock he was in momentary dread of
hearing at the door of the box.

Oh, go and bring him in by all means," said
Mattie. " What fun ! — we'll make him put us
into some good things. If there is a thing I
understand, it is finance. Don't tell him yet
that one of us is an heiress, — we will let that
sublime fact dawn upon his enterprising mind by
degrees. He'll be sure to want funds for something
o; that wants floating;, and is sure to make all
our fortunes, and then we'll throw our gaudy fly,
won't we, Stella ? Oh, he'll rise to you, never
fear. And mind, we are all cousins," she added,
as Hetherington was leaving the box. He
met Muckle before he had taken many steps
along the corridor, who greeted him with easy
familiarity.

Ah, Hetherington, I was delighted to see you

again, especially in such good company, that
upon my soul I could not resist coming to ask if
I might be permitted to share it. I had no idea
you went in for that sort of thing. Humour has
it that you are above all such weakness ; but
human nature — human nature — we are all mortal
; but I give you my word, between friends, I
am the soul of honour in these affairs."

"You are quite under a mistake," said Wethers
rather stiffly ; " the ladies I am with in
the box are cousins of mine, who have just
arrived from America ; and as the old lady of
the party was unwell" — confound it! he thought,
I wonder what old Hannah's surname is, and
whether we could not convert her into an aunt
" I did not like to disappoint them, the more
especially as Mr Alderney, to whom I will introduce
you presently, is — ahem — also a sort of connection.
I am sure they will be delighted to make
your acquaintance ; " and he ushered Muckle into
the box, whose manner changed considerably at
the frigid and stately reception he met with.
There was a calm hardihood in the manner of
both these young ladies when they scented the
least suspicion of danger, that did credit to the
early training of Cedar Buttes — a certain underlying

contempt for the male sex as an inferior
order of creation, who might understand the use
of pick-axes for the extraction of ore, but was a
poor defenceless creature when it came to defending
itself against the poisoned arrows of their
blow-pipes. Mr Muckle felt instinctively that
he was in the presence of a new specimen, and
that he had better tread warily, and above all,
politely ; so he made haste to lay aside the fashionable
swagger with which he had entered, and
twisted his opera hat apologetically, as he made
his best bow, and asked them when they had
arrived in Paris, and how they liked it.

Pretty well, as far as we've got, to use the
expressive language of Artemis Ward," said
Stella, glancing slily at Hetherington and Alderney.
" I confess I don't care much for pleasure,
for which this city is so celebrated : I leave
that to my cousin Mattie. I interest myself
chiefly in stocks, and the fluctuations of the
money market."

Mr Muckle was so utterly taken aback by this
sudden revelation of the propensities of the lovely
creature he had been gazing at with so much admiration,
that he was unable to find an appropriate
reply before the curtain rose ; and for the rest

of the evening the two girls were so absorbed by
the play that he failed to extract anything from
them but monosyllables. His curiosity had, however,
been so highly excited, and his interest so
much aroused by the beauty of one, and the obvious
originality, in spite of their silence, of both,
that, as he was helping to put them into their
shawls when the play was over, he asked, in a
most deferential manner, if he might be allowed
to call.

"What is the number and name of our street,
Keith ? " said Stella ; " I never can remember."

The street has had a great many names, and
will probably have a good many more," said
Hetherington. " At present it is called ' Eue du
dix-huit Mars, dix-huit cent soixante et onze,' in
memory of the first day of the Commune ; and
the number is ' Quatre-vingt dix-huit'"

Goodness ! " said Mattie ; " who is ever to
remember all these dix-hurts ? It's worse than
the numbers along Fifth Avenue in New York."

How very strange ! " exclaimed Muckle : " on
what floor, may I ask ? Some of my most intimate
friends have taken the premier in the same
house, and arrive tomorrow."

Then I do hope they ain't noisy," said Mattie,

for they are just above us ; we're on the entresol,
I think it is called. Now we really must hurry
up, or old Hannah will think we're lost. Come,
Keith, you and I will go together this time fora
change, and send Bob and Stella in the other
coupe. Good-night, Mr Muckle ; we shall always
be glad to see you."

CHAPTEK IV.

THE FINANCIAL Triumvirate.

Geandesella and Muckle lead " places of business
" in London, Paris, and Florence. These
consisted of two or three large rooms, furnished
somewhat more ornate than is usual in such
establishments, with a small office, in which there
were one or two clerks. It was never certain
where they were to be found. There was a great
convenience attending this difficulty of unearthing
them when they did not wish to be invaded,
as the clerk was instructed to say they were
abroad, when, in point of fact, they might be in
the next room ; or Mr Muckle would say that the
affair was one which the Baron understood, but
to which he had not directed his attention, if it
were inconvenient for him to commit himself —
and that the Baron was unfortunately in Paris.

And when the visitor was gone, the partners
would put their heads together and see what
was to be made out of the information which Mr
Muckle had extracted. Or if a different impression
was to be created, Mr Muckle would lead
the visitor with much solemnity into the apartment
where the Baron sat in great state engaged
in a voluminous correspondence. They had one
system for London, and another for Paris, and
another for Florence, adapted to the usage of the
respective countries ; but they had not yet succeeded
in establishing themselves socially in London
society — their undertakings, so far, having
necessitated their residence principally abroad ;
and although not lacking in boldness of conception
or skill in execution, these had not turned
out so profitable as had been anticipated, and
upon more than one occasion had involved an
amount of sharp practice to avert disaster, which
had left them with a reputation not altogether
untarnished : still they had a reputation, such as
it was. They were beginning to be well known
as enterprising promoters and skilful operators,
and they only needed a great coup to have the
financial world at their feet. It was in connection
with an undertaking which seemed calculated

VOL. L E

to realise their most sanguine expectations, that
Muckle had now telegraphed for the Baron to
join him in Paris ; and as the affair was not one
which could be concluded in a day, Grandesella
had decided upon taking his wife and daughter
with him, and had made up his mind to pass the
winter there. He was the more inclined to do
this, as he had heard from his wife the dangers
which threatened to disturb their domestic plans,
by the growing intimacy of Eonald MacAlpine
and Altera, and which he determined to nip in
the bud. Hence it was that, on the day following
the events recorded in the last chapter, the
asphalt of the Eue du dix-huit Mars, dix-huit
cent soixante et onze, resounded with the clatter
of the hoofs which notified the concierge of No.
Quatre-vingt dix-huit, that Baron Grandesella's
family and luggage were on the point of arrival,
and brought that domestic functionary to the
entrance of the port-cohere, cap in hand, and
with an air of obsequiousness appropriate to the
reception of a financial magnate.

I don't think much of them port others,"
said Hannah, who wanted to inspect the new
arrivals, and was darning, with the aid of a pair
of magnifiers, an open worked stocking of Stella's

near the window; '* they've been and driven right
square into the yard. Why, he's never a-going' to
set up a store in this house. I guess he must
have chartered a whole car to take all that
bascg-aore."

For the next hour, to Hannah's great annoyance,
not unmingled with curiosity, there was
such a clatter of trunks and porters past the door
of the entresol, that at last she could stand it no
longer, and walked boldly forth on a voyage of
discovery, which led her to the landing above,
which she passed as if bent on a mission to the
upper regions, and then slowly descended, justin
time to find Altera and her maid struggling
with a key in the refractory lock of a trunk at the
open door of the antechamber. " Bless you, that
ain't no good, my dear young lady," she remarked
calmly ; " it needs being sat upon. Please allow
me," and she perched herself coolly on the resisting
lid, which still refused to yield to the pressure,
and at this juncture Mr Muckle appeared.

Welcome to Paris, dear Altera," said that
gentleman with a display of affection, which was
evidently not reciprocated, as she coldly gave
him her hand. " Why, you've got a new maid,"
he added, turning to inspect Hannah; for Mr

Muckle made it a point to be well informed in
regard to the details of the Baron's establishment.
But before she could reply, Hannah, who, seated
squarely on the box, with short petticoats, and
feet an inch from the ground, was giving a
spasmodic pressure, proceeding apparently from
the base of the spine, broke in —

Just you come and sit down here alongside
of me, and don't talk," she said, making room for
him. " I ain't no new maid, and I wish I wasn't
an old one. You don't expect to make that key
turn by standing staring at me, when just a mite
more would do it. One would think the man had
never seen a woman a-settin' on a trunk before."

Who is this person, Altera ? " said Muckle,
angrily ; for Altera's maid had become utterly
unable either to grapple with the lock, or to
suppress the laughter with which she was internally
convulsed.

I don't know," said Altera, " except that
she's a very kind one."

Why, it's no kindness at all. Miss — only a
common neighbourly act, such as I would expect
you to do for me. I think it is for me to ask,
who is this man as can leave a lady a-settin' on
a trunk, and all but getting it open, and refuses

to come and help her? If that's your grand
Paris politeness as they make such a talk about,
I say give me 'Marian manners," — and she gave
a sudden bump of indignation on the lid, which
was exactly the "mite" it needed, for the key
turned, and she slipped off, and turning to
Altera, before Muckle had time to give vent
to his indignation, said " Good day, Miss ; my
young ladies and me live down on the ' entersoul,'
I think they call it, and you'll always be welcome
; " and she stumped actively off, not a little
pleased to think she had made an acquaintance
for her young ladies of so promising an
appearance.

Oh," said Muckle grimly, as he watched her
prim upright figure rapidly disappearing, and
remembered Hetherington's explanations of the
night before, — ''so that's the old lady of the
party ! I don't wonder the young ones dispense
with such a chaperon, when they go to
the theatre alone with young men. You have
some neighbours below, Altera, whom I know
slightly, and I think it will be as well for you tolet
me find out something more about them before
you accept this singular female's invitation
to make their acquaintance."

I should prefer to leave that responsibility
to my mother," said Altera significantly, as she
ushered Muckle into the salon, and instantly
vanished upon the pretext of telling Madame
Grandesella that he had arrived. As she opened
the door, the deep bass voice of the Baron gushed
through it, singing Figaro qui, Figaro la, and he
promptly followed it into the room, extending
both hands towards Muckle, with his usual manner
of excessive cordiality.

"Well, I'm glad it's 'Figaro qui' at last;
you've been running things pretty fine," said the
latter, "leaving me here all alone to answer
inquiries, give explanations "

And invent lies," interrupted the Baron.
Parbleu ! my dear Dick, how could I pay you
a higher compliment ? What earthly assistance
would mine have been to your own brilliant
imagination? Besides, I have not been idle.
Tell him, Lalla mia," he went on, addressing the
Baroness who just then entered the room, " how
skilfully I baited the hook with our heiress, who
is dying to see her noble cousin, and whose
beauty and talents are only equal to her wealth,
ouf! " and the Baron gave a grunt as if still
fatigued with the labour of the task.

Lord Sai-k, it seems, was very suspicious,"
said the Baroness, coming to her husband's relief.
" He is, as you know, Altera's second cousin,
but we have never been able to do more than
make him admit the relationship. If we had
been a band of Italian brigands, who wanted to
capture him and carry him oiF to our mountains,
to hold him for a ransom, he could not have been
more wary during all these years. It is fortunate
that British brigands exist who can play the
same trick by the simple device of making a distinguished
nobleman the director of a joint-stock
company, limited. Philippo found him in great
trouble, dreading liquidation, exposure, and I
don't know what more besides, unless he could
find some great capitalists to come to the rescue."

"And Grandesella and Muckle, with their
great financial connection, are going to assume
the liability of the company, and save his lordship
from disgrace, I suppose," said Muckle,
cynically ; " and pray, what are we to get in
return ? "

What a gloomy view of things you always
take, mon cher, before you thoroughly understand
them ! " said the Baron. " In the first place,
I have gone carefully into all the patents possessed

by the Universal Scintillator Company ;
and by becoming its possessors, and making a
contract disposing of it to the Dark Continent
Electric Illumination Company, of which you
and I, my dear Dick, are the promoters, we can
retrieve the ruined fortunes of the one, and float
the other, with the Earl of Sark as a sort of
aristocratic trait union, We will entangle
him, mon ami, in the meshes of our financial net
until he is our slave, when we will marry him
to Altera ; and with rank at the helm and beauty
at the prow, to borrow the image of the poet, the
bark of Grandesella and Muckle will breast the
social waves until it is safely moored in the haven,
let us say, of royalty, — after that, titles, honours,
decorations, political life, and fame. What
say you, Sir Eichard Muckle, Bart., M.P.,
G.C.M.G.?"

I say," said Muckle, 'that it won t work, for
the very simple reason that I intend to marry
Altera myself; and you know very well, Laura,"
he added, turning with a fierce emphasis on the
Baroness, "that neither you nor Philippo here,
nor Altera herself, can prevent me. You don't
suppose I became a partner in that little arrangement
which we entered into eighteen years ago.

when I resigned Laura to you, Philippe, to be
dictated to now ! "

Designed me ! " and a glance of very evil
meaning eliot from the Baroness's cold grey eye
like a poisoned dart, as she turned upon Muckle ;
yes, you resigned me, because I refused you
then, as I refuse my daughter to you now. She
is not adapted for the rule of a professional
beauty, if that is how you mean to advance
your fortunes in London," she went on, with a
sneer ; " and even you could not force her to
assume it."

I think," replied Muckle, rising, and speaking
in a voice of suppressed passion, "the person
best able to judge of that matter will be
Altera herself. There is that little mystery so
familiar to us all, but of which she has been kept
in ignorance, which, when I reveal it to her, as
I propose to do at once, will put the matter beyond
a doubt."

Ta, ta, ta," interrupted the Baron, drumming
his fingers on the table, " don't be so impetuous,
Dick ; and you, Lalla mia, don't aggravate our
old friend. If you two can't be bound by the
chords of affection and long association, at least
remember that we may all be ruined if you

quarrel. Unity is force ; for my part, I love
you both : I never forget that we all hang by
the same rope."

"Not yet," said Muckle, and his lip curled
with a sinister smile. " I think we had better
not discuss how many ropes we may hang by.
The subject is not a pleasant one, but I did not
start it. I am glad you recognise, Philippo,
that you cannot make any plans with regard
to Altera without consulting me first. If you
always bear that in mind, there need be no
question of hanging."

Sapristi ! what a knack you have of raking
up unpleasant topics ! How was I to know that
you had placed your battered affections upon
the girl you've known ever since she was born ?
Let me see : as you say, that's more than eighteen
years ago now, and the house of Grrandesella
was an obscure commission agency in an obscure
Italian town, and Richard Muckle was an obscure
clerk in it then."

And Laura was an obscure and disconsolate
widow, whom I resigned in favour of my obscure
employer, upon condition of being made a partner
in the firm," interrupted Muckle.

'rand who made both your fortunes by the

money she brought with her," added the Baroness,
tartly.

Basta ! " said the Baron, " let ns have no
more of this. We none of us could have got on
without the other; if we fall out, some honest
man, if there is such a thing, will get his rights ;
you know the old proverb. Let us leave* the
marriage question and get back to business. I
have told Lord Sark that he must come over
here and satisfy himself in regard to the terms
of the concession, by which he becomes a co-proprietor
with us of the extensive privileges we
have obtained, if he can persuade the board of
which he is the chairman, to hand over the company
to us at our own terms, which, considering
the difficulties they are in, can, I think, be satisfactorily
arranged. Of the merits of my project
financially, there can be no question, Dick, as
you will see when we go into it together ; if you
don't agree to its advantages matrimonially, we
will try another combination. In the meantime,
Ora has been most useful as a decoy. She's a
young lady with a will of her own, and if you
can force her inclinations neither Lalla nor I will
interfere ; " and he cast a covert glance at his
wife, who seemed on the look-out for it, and

who snapped it up so dexterously, that it was
undetected by the sharp eyes of Muckle.

Dear Altera," she remarked ; " I am afraid
she has thrown away her heart upon Mr MacAlpine,
and that both Eichard and Lord Sark will
have some trouble with her."

Muckle turned an uneasy look of mistrust at
the Baroness at this observation. " I won't
trouble you to inform me who Mr MacAlpine
is," he said, " of whom I now hear for the first
time, or what the state of Altera's affections maybe,
as I have the girl herself to apply to, and can
rely upon her veracity," and he emphasised the
last two words. " Now, Philippo, I am ready to
attend to the expose of your project."

The Baroness, who was accustomed to assist
at these deliberations, took up her knitting, and
followed the two men as they plunged into the
intricacies of those financial combinations — that
were afterwards to appear in a very different
form in an attractive prospectus — with a subtle
apprehension of their mysteries, which could
only have been acquired by long practice, from
time to time interposing observations, to which
both men listened with a respect rarely accorded
to the fair sex where such matters are concerned.

The triumvirate protracted the seance until even
Muckle was convinced that the Earl of Sark and
his " company" might be turned to a most profitable
account of themselves, if not to his lordship
; and under the soothing influence of the
delightful prospect thus opened, and the persuasive
accents of the Baron, who was an adept
in the art of peacemaking, when it suited his
purpose, mutual confidence was to all appearance
restored, and a tacit understanding arrived at,
that nothing was to be gained by anticipating
the complications likely to arise when the force
of circumstances should compel decided action to
be taken with regard to the destiny of the girl,
round whom so many interests, both of heart
and pocket, seemed likely to centre.

Chapter Y.

SARK AND "THE CLYMER."

The Earl of Sark was one of the best known and
most popular men in London. When, at the age
of three-and-twenty, he had a few years before
seconded the Address in the House of Lords, he
captured in his first sentence a whole file of
peers' daughters, who had obtained seats in the
gallery on that occasion. In his second, their
mammas began critically to examine him through
their eyeglasses, and devise schemes for his capture
in the matrimonial net. With the third, he
made his first point, and the leader of the Opposition
pricked his ears, and felt that a young
gladiator had entered the arena, who was likely
to give trouble, and prove an inconvenient reinforcement
to the enemy. And dien he had concluded
his fourth, the whole of his own side

burst forth in a well-modulated and guardedly
enthusiastic ** Hear, hear," which so excited Sark's
intimate friend, young St Olave, that that impetuous
young nobleman, who had taken his
seat for the first time, in an unguarded moment
actually clapped his hands, thus, though he
instantly checked himself, producing a shiver of
dismay throughout the august assembly, from
which it did not recover for some moments, and
from the effects of which the noble lord on the
woolsack suffered until dinner-time. By the
time Sark had concluded his brilliant oration,
his best friends began to regret bitterly that he
should have been thrown away upon the Lords.
It was evident that he had the right stuff in
him, and he was just the sort of man the party
needed sadly in the Lower House. That evening
all London, by which I mean all the people who
crowded to the three drums between which
they oscillated, talked of nothing but Sark's
speech ; and that nobleman was quite tired of
looking modest, and receiving and deprecating
compliments, until he staggered off to bed under
the weight of his honours, the happiest and
most triumphant man in England. It was generally
admitted that he was the most eligible

parti of the season. Fairly rich, an earl of
ancient lineage, and with an undoubted talent,
which should place him in the first rank of the
statesmen of his day, he had all the necessary
matrimonial requirements, — added to this the
secondary considerations, that he was extremely
good-looking, of a frank, generous nature, and
reported by his contemporaries to have good
principles, and we cannot wonder that young-ladies,
when they saw him approaching in a ballroom,
fluttered their fans with a slightly enhanced
vigour, arising from nervous agitation,
while their cheeks sometimes flushed faintly,
and their eyelids drooped timidly — in the case
of debutantes, aware that the maternal eye was
upon them at these trying moments. The more
seasoned ones took another line, and carried him
off to corners, in mortal dread of his falling
a prey to some unprincipled young married
woman, who, having made her own game, continued
to poach unrestrainedly on the preserves
of her younger sisters on promotion. Such, in
fact, in spite of all their precautions, actually
occurred ; and just as the Duchess of Pennons
had flattered herself that her eldest girl,
Lady Adeline, had finally landed him at her

she would fling back her wind-tossed locks recklessly,
and tell you "in the Pampas of South
America." If you were musical, she had the
voice of a siren — and notes which, with a running
accompaniment of glances, and " variations"
on the feelings, vibrated to your very
soul. Her lithe supple figure moved gracefully,
without affectation. Her soft white hand possessed
a power of thrilling when you clasped it
which was simply marvellous — she would have
said magnetic. Her little foot, with its high-arched
instep, had been immortalised by a sculptor
at Some, and may be seen any day in its
nude perfection on the mantelpiece of her perfectly
furnished little house in Mayfair-where
there is a sanctum to which only intimates are
admitted, containing many curious articles of
vertu and interesting relics, which she keeps as
reminiscences of her former life ; for Mrs Rhymer
has lived much and widely. She had only been
a season or two in London when she captured
Lord Sark, and was then not much over thirty;
but she looked a mere girl, and took society by
storm by the force of her accomplishments, — her
ready wit, her ingenious audacity, her extreme
loveliness, and air of ineffable innocence. For

t^YO or three seasons before that she had frequented
the watering-places in Europe which
are the most affected by the British aristocracy ;
and they admitted her freely, because she said
she was American. And so she was, so far as
nationality was concerned, but Americans denied
all knowledge of her in their own country.
This she explained by the fact that her father,
though a citizen of the United States, had been
an officer in the army of some South American
republic, where she was born, and that he had
subsequently, on the death of his first wife, entered
into speculations connected with torpedoes
in the Mediterranean, where he had married a
Levantine ; and thus she had acquired the knowledge
of most European languages, in which she
was a proficient, and the fortune which he left
her at his death, after having separated from
his second wife. But all these details are hazy
and obscure, and subject to modification, as they
are a sort of patchwork result from scraps of information,
extracted at various times by different
people. There was another history, quite different,
which begins in the Levant, with a good
deal of Italy thrown in, and ends with South
America. Probably, if anybody had ever seen

Mr Rhymer, that gentleman could have thrown
some important light on the whole matter : Mr
Rhymer was the individual with whom so much
mysterious suffering was connected. He seemed
to have behaved badly on some occasion in Asia
Minor; but the subject was evidently so painful,
that no one was heartless enough to press
for information. He had married her for her
fortune, of which, however, she seemed to have
saved a good deal, and then ill-treated her, or
deserted her, or deceived her. He, too, was
said to be an American, and was supposed to be
living, if he was living at all, in California ; but
Mrs Rhymer so plainly gave it to be understood
that any reference to this mythical individual
was painful to her, that society readily conceded
it was nobody's business but Mrs Rhymer's.
There was nothing American about her, at all
events. She was thoroughly cosmopolitan — indeed,
so much, that she and the American Minister
have never been good friends since the
celebrated occasion when he made a difficulty
about her presentation at Court. Mrs Rhymer
was not a woman to be baffled, and eventually
carried the day, and has taken her revenge ever
since by holding up her own countrymen and

countrywomen to ridicule upon every possible
occasion. What gives Mrs Rhymer her great
hold on London society is the hypothetical existence
of Mr Rhymer ; she is just enough married
to be a safe person to fall in love with. There
can be no possible danger of having to marry
her, "because of Rhymer, you know." Matchmaking
mammas became anxious to verify the
fact of Rhymer's non-existence ; because, if Mrs
Rhymer was either a widow, or had never been
married — and conjecture, in regard to her, stuck
at nothing — then if they could marry her to
some weak-minded nobleman, and be done with
her, it would be a great riddance of a matrimonial
obstacle. Moreover, the more widespread and
well founded the suspicion of Rhymer's non-existence
became, the more likely were lovers to
become demoralised for fear of possible consequences.
When Sark fell a victim, society at
large uttered a general groan of dismay. The
mothers were enraged, the daughters dejected,
the politicians nervous and disappointed.
That woman Rhymer will be the ruin of Sark,"
said Lord Basinghall ; " he has utterly given up
all interest in ' The Foot-and-Mouth Disease Bill '
ever since she got hold of him. They say that

story of lier having a fortune of her own is a
pure invention ; that she is in debt for the rent
of her house, and for everything there is in it ;
that it has all been lent her on speculation by
some enterprising usurer, and now that Sark is
paying all her debts with interest. His infatuation
is something incredible. Not but that she is
as handsome as a Peri, and as innocent-looking."

They say he was offered office the other day,
and refused it — couldn't spare the time. Talks
of taking Mrs Rhymer a cruise round the world
in his yacht, with Hurst and Lady Dolly to do
proper. I never knew a woman go to the bad so
fast as Lady Dolly has, since she has become the
amie intime of the Rhymer," added Lysper, a
young Guardsman, who had been making furious
love to Mrs Rhymer until Sark's appearance on the
scene had rendered any further pursuit hopeless.

I have been trying to persuade Sark to give
up that idea," said Lord St Olave mournfully,
and I think I have succeeded. He says he
must do something to economise. I hear he lost
a lot on the Ascot Cup day. I never knew him
bet before ; but it seems that woman made it a
test of his affection to back some horse she has
an interest in. I believe she is a professional

gambler, and goes in for a lot of speculations on
the sly, in spite of all her demure ways."

*' I know she dabbles in City things," said
Lysper. " I used constantly to meet a stockbroking
cad at her house, who used to worship
at that shrine when I was amusing myself there ;
and there was always a mysterious whisper before
he took his departure, which I am sure meant
business of some sort."

Say rather mischief," said Basinghall. '' Poor
Sark ! It is really heartbreaking to think what
a loss he is to the party. It is like the measles,
and must run its course ; it's impossible to do
anything to save him now, he's too far gone."

So it happened that Lord Sark's finances, becoming
embarrassed under the influence of the
fair adventuress, he plunged into City speculations,
with the aid of the young stockbroker
above mentioned, to retrieve them, having much
faith in that gentleman's experience and Mrs
Rhymer's sagacity — a confidence which turned
out to be quite misplaced; and he was just in the
agonies of the financial dilemma alluded to by
Baron Grandesella when that astute financier
proposed to rescue him if he would pay a visit to
Paris to be enlightened as to certain combinations

by which lie was to become part proprietor of
the concessions obtained by the promoters of
the Dark Continent Electric Illumination Company,
and derive immense profits as chairman
of that company, when it had been successfully
floated upon a confiding public. Sark felt rather
nervous when he had decided upon this step
without first consulting Mrs Rhymer, and broke
it to that lady with a degree of trepidation which
turned out to have been unnecessary. She was
just in the humour for a trip to Paris, she said.
The London season was still in the distance, and
the idea of new financial combinations charmed
her almost as much as the prospect of renewing
her toilet at Sark's expense, and her intimacy with
her old friend Worth, who, it was said, or rather
she said, had from time to time been indebted
to her for some of his best ideas ; and she assured
Sark he allowed her a heavy discount in consequence.
They did not, however, come over by
the same train, or even go to the same hotel — for
though their relations were tolerably notorious,
they still respected the external proprieties ; indeed
Mrs Rhymer had discovered that her intimacy
with so distinguished a nobleman, so far from
injuring her position in London society, had distinctly

the effect of consolidating it. Many country
houses were now open to her, because Sark was
almost certain to refuse unless " that horrid Mrs
Rhymer" was asked — he was such a charming
social addition ; so, for the matter of that, was
she. And as they both made a point of exerting
themselves to the utmost under these circumstances,
it cannot be denied that their presence
contributed largely to the success of these rural
aristocratic gatherings. Moreover, there was a
certain relief in finding that Mrs Rhymer was
provided for, even at so great a sacrifice; and she
no longer was pronounced so " horrid," now that
she had given up " flirting all over the place," as
Lysper elegantly expressed it. Though neither
the Grandesellas nor Muckle had ever seen her,
they were familiar with her photograph in the
shop windows, and with her reputation in the
social weeklies ; and were too conversant with
the weaknesses of human nature to suppose for a
moment that she would allow Lord Sark to come
to Paris alone. Though her name had not been
mentioned in the discussion which had taken
place about Altera, it had been present in the
minds of all three ; and they all saw in her a possible
ally, whose merits they were too divided in

sentiment at that moment to discuss. The Baron
thought that when it came to the point she could
be bought off — he had an unbounded belief in
the power of money ; the Baroness saw in her a
trump-card, which might be played with advantage
when she took her hand in the social rubber
of her first London season ; and Muckle saw a
dangerous rival to Altera in Sark's affections,
whose jealousy he would not be slow to excite if
necessary. It was to this hornet's nest that the
unconscious Sark glided at the rate of thirty
miles an hour in the train which conveyed him
from Bologna to Paris.

It would be instructive but tedious, as most
instructive things are, if I were to attempt to
describe the intricacies of the financial net in
which the Paris triumvirate entangled Sark,
by means of a dexterous combination of the
two companies in whose fortunes he was destined
to become so deeply involved. The process was
rapid and skilfully managed. For the first two
or three days Grandesella and Muckle saw him
alone ; then, when he was sufficiently muddled
by the jargon of financial detail, and dazzled
by prospective results, they descended to the
topics and necessities of everyday life, of which

eating is one of the most essential, and Sark
was in due time committed to a dinner with
the Baroness and Altera, which he returned by
another at the Cafe Anglais, at which the whole
party met Mrs Rhymer, who said she always came
to Paris at this season, and was so delighted to
find that she had accidentally so timed her visit
as to meet Lord Sark, and expressed her eternal
gratitude to the Baron and Baroness for having
been the means of bringing him over so
opportunely. She seemed instinctively to find
in Muckle a kindred spirit, and her voice sank
to such a sympathetic cadence, her large eyes
beamed upon him so languidly and so confidingly,
and her cheek flushed so slightly as they
exchanged glances for the third time, that Sark,
who happened to look up at the moment, felt a
twinge of jealousy, and took another survey of
Muckle from quite a new point of view. *' So
my astute financial friend aspires to be a lady-killer,"
he thought, and then laughed away his
suspicion as he felt the Rhymer's gaze burning
into his soul. He was so accustomed to the sensation
that he did not need to look up to know
that she was waiting to reassure him by an unuttered
language, of which he had learnt to read

every secret. So this dinner, which was only
the prelude to many succeeding ones, passed off
very well. The only discordant note in the
party was Altera ; but as this history could
never have been written were it not for the access
which I happen to have had to that young lady's
own journal, her experiences can best be narrated
in her own words.

CHAPTER VI.

Altera CAPTURED BY THE CALIFORNIANS.

At last the Baron and mamma have achieved the
great object of their ambition, and have captured
Lord Sark. " Altera," said mamma, when he
called, '' let me introduce you to your cousin
Lord Sark." I thought his lordship winced
slightly, but that may have been imagination
he was too well-bred to show anything but
cordiality; but wee had no mutual relations to
talk about, which made it awkward.

I have another cousin in Paris," he said at
last, with a smile, " whom I must look up. He
is quite an oriental pundit, and buries himself in
the ancient literature of the Zoroastrians, or some
other extinct species. Have you ever met Bob
Alderney ? "

As I had never even heard of him, I was

obliged to confess my ignorance, and tried to
engage Lord Sark in a discussion in regard to
the pursuits of this other new-found relative,
with whom I may possibly find some interests
in common; but I soon became instinctively
conscious that I was boring him, or rather
that he was boring himself. Neither mamma
nor I could discuss London society, nor politics,
nor sport ; we tried art, but he seemed to
know nothing about it. There was left finance,
about which I knew mamma was dying to
talk to him, but felt that it would not be discreet
; and when he alluded to Mr Muckle, I felt
sympathetically towards him as a fellow-victim
who was to be pounced upon. I shall warn him
about this the first time I have an opportunity.
It certainly is an anomalous position morally fora
girl to find herself in, but I feel that I owe it
to the late Mr Peto to be a traitor in the family
camp. Dear papa ! I am certain he must have
been the soul of honour, from the overpowering
inclination which possesses me to unearth villany
and expose hypocrisy wherever I meet it. I am
sure there is a serious side to Sark. He told me
always to call him Sark, in an undertone which
mamma did not hear. I suppose it is the fashion

between second cousins in the aristocracy. At
all events he is worth saving, merely as a human
being. He is certainly honest, and has a heart ;
but I suppose he has what mamma calls " the
vices common to young men," whatever these
may be. How much I have of life yet to learn
before I can make myself of any practical use to
others ! It is ridiculous to suppose that, because
I am a girl, I cannot do good honest service to
young men. Pure conventionalism, which I am
determined to break through.

We have just come home from dining with
Sark. He invited an American lady, Mrs Rhymer,
to meet us. As soon as I touched her hand, I
felt a slight shiver and a painful constriction of
the chest. The only other person who sometimes
affects me in the same way is Eichard Muckle,
but then the pain is generally in the temples. I
wonder how doctors account for this. I suppose
they would tell me it is imagination, and did not
exist at all ; but not only do I know, as a positive
fact, that it exists, but I know vaguely what
it means. There is something radically wrong
about that woman, and she feels that I know it.
I was puzzling over the various phenomena she

presented to me, when I suddenly looked up and
caught Iter eye fully before she had time to lower
it. For a second all the blood left her face,
and then came back with a rush. I suppose
blushing and faintness are imagination too, and
don't exist at all. If the look of one person at
another can produce a flush or a pallor, why may
the emotion not be intensified until it is felt as a
pain ? And if a look can do it, why should nota
touch do it still more effectually ? What passes
from eye to eye to produce this effect may surely
pass from hand to hand. It must be a moral
force of some kind, " acting" on what the doctors
call the nerves. That word " acting " is very
convenient. It entirely dispenses with any explanation
of how the acting is done, so it is a
good deal used by scientific men. It is quite
evident, at any rate, that I was " acting " on Mrs
Rhymer, and Mrs Rhymer was "reacting" on me.
We did not require to say anything to each other
to do this. She was doing a good deal of acting
all round. She was acting on Muckle, who is too
swarthy to blush, but there is an almost imperceptible
twitch in the muscle of his upper lip on
these occasions ; and she was acting on Sark,
who sighed. Neither the Baron nor mamma

seemed to feel lier influence in the slightest degree.
When we parted, and Mrs Rhymer took
both my hands in hers and looked lovingly into
my eyes with a face of radiant innocence and
gushing affection, and said, " Dear Miss Peto, I
am so glad to have had this opportunity of making
your acquaintance. We have all been so
merry to-night, that I have not had a chance of
really talking to you, but I feel sure we shall be
great friends. You must let me see a great deal
of you ; " — when she said all this with much
effusion, I felt that she was making a deliberate
declaration of war to the knife ; and she knew
I felt it by the warmth with which I returned
her pressure, and which seemed quite to please
Lord Sark, who said, " Good-bye, Altera," to
my mother's great delight.

Going down-stairs yesterday, I met my elderly
friend, who had so much scandalised Mr Muckle
by asking him to sit with her on the lid of my
trunk. She was standing at the open door of
the entresol, talking to a beautiful girl who had
evidently just come in from a walk. 'why,
here's the very young lady herself," she said,
holding out her hand to me with the greatest
cordiality. "I was just a-saying' to Mattie —

VOL. I. G

Stella, I mean," she corrected herself, " as been'
all strangers together in a strange land, and such
near neighbours, it was only becoming as we
should go and see whether you wasn't feeling'
kinder lonely like, with your papa and maria
out so much." She laid the emphasis on the
first syllable of the words papa and mamma,
as if I was a lisping infant.

The lady she called Mattie and then Stella
blushed slightly as she bowed, and said, '' I
must apologise for so informal an introduction ;
but I was just explaining to my friend here
that our being strangers and neighbours scarcely
warranted our taking the liberty she suggests,
though I am very glad" — and she looked at
me with such frank, truthful eyes, that my
heart warmed to her at once — " of any accident
which may give me the pleasure of making your
acquaintance."

Well, there ain't no use standing talking out
here in the cold, anyway," broke in her companion
; ''so come in and have a cup of tea.
This is Miss Walton — my, now if I didn't as
near as anything say Miss Terrill — and Miss
Terrill is indoors."

There must have been a good deal of what

the Americans call " personal magnetism " in
the old lady, for I yielded unresisting to her
will, explaining to Miss Walton, as I did so, that
ever since my first meeting with her friend I
had cherished a hope that we might become
acquainted.

A girl was sitting; reading; as we entered the
salon, and my first friend, who seemed inclined
to take all the responsibility of my introduction
upon herself, said, "Here, Mattie — laws, now,
if I wasn't just a-going' to say Stella ! — here's
Miss — I didn't rightly catch your name — come
to see you."

Altera Peto," I said, laughing.

Now you mustn't apologise," interrupted
Miss Walton, seeing I was going to excuse my
abrupt entrance. " This is Mattie Terrill, and
this is Hannah Coffin, one of the old New Hampshire
Coffins ; though she has been a long time
away from New England, she has a good deal
of the old Puritan ring to her still — haven't
you, Hannah ? "

But Hannah had no time to reply, for Miss
Terrill was expressing her welcome ; and in
half an hour we were sitting over our tea like
old friends.

I confess I was very nervous as to how I
should break the fact of my new acquaintances
to my mother, who would be sure to treat them
with the utmost rudeness if, as was most probable,
she did not approve of the whole proceeding;
and I was haunted by the vision of an
abrupt termination of an intercourse which, from
its originality, I was beginning to enjoy immensely.
I thought it best to prepare the minds
of my new acquaintances for this eventuality,
and yet it was a most difficult matter to
approach. As I was meditating upon it. Miss
Terrill said —

"I think we know a friend of yours ^ Mr
Muckle. He promised to make us acquainted
before your arrival."

This rather astonished me, and led to a whole
history of their first visit to the theatre, under
the guidance of Miss Terrill's cousin, Mr Wethers
and Mr Alderney, who turns out to be
none other than my own unseen cousin Bob, first
brought to my consciousness by Lord Sark.

Why, you don't say ! " laughed Miss Terrill,
as she clapped her hands, after listening to my
explanation, — " then he's your cousin too, and
we're all cousins ! Well, now, ain't this perfectly

lovely ! This is a new version of ' Our
American Cousin,' and we'll call Lord Sark Lord
Dundreary."

We had just arrived at this satisfactory conclusion
when the titre sounded, and in walked
Mr Hetherington and Mr Alderney.

"Mr Alderney," said Miss Walton, her eyes
dancing with mischief, " let me introduce to
you your cousin. Miss Altera Peto."

Mr Alderney, who was evidently a shy man,
was overcome with embarrassment at being thus
unexpectedly brought face to face with an unknown
relative, and apparently had a strong
suspicion that he was being made the subject
of chaff ; but he had too much politeness under
the circumstances to give vent to it, so he only
bowed and murmured something about being too
delighted.

"Lady Mary Alderney, who married General
Peto, was my grandmother," I said, by way of
explanation. " I suppose you know that Lord
Sark is in Paris ? "

Mr Alderney said that they had exchanged
notes but had not met, — and then the conversation
became general. I was surprised to find
that they all seemed more or less distantly

connected, and called each other by their Christian
names, and were evidently on terms of the
greatest intimacy, which was the more remarkable,
as neither Mi* Hetherington nor Mr Alderney
had been in America, and this was the first
visit of the young ladies to Europe. It was a
decided relief to my mind when I discovered that
Miss Walton was a great heiress. This would
quite reconcile my mother to the irregularity
of the circumstances under which I had made
their acquaintance, and to the fact that they
were travelling without any other chaperon
than Miss Coffin, who seemed to live with
them on terms of perfect equality, though evidently
a person who had not enjoyed the same
advantages of education and social training asher
friends.

There was something; so. refreshing; in the
originality and spontaneity of the whole party
in the utter absence of conventionality, and
in the genuine warmth of natures not yet chilled
by contact with what is called polite society —
that I felt myself expanding and reviving under
its influence, like a tropical plant rescued from
the frost and put into a hothouse. I was just
allowing myself the full luxury of the sensation,

when I detected a suppressed sigh, and a whispered
" Poor darling ! " unheard by the others,
who were all talking together, and found Miss
Coffin's black eyes, which combined a singular
benevolence of expression with a very piercing-quality,
fixed upon me.

Guess I've got to kiss you : I don't know
what come to me that I did not think of it
sooner. You need to be loved, my dearie — that's
what's the matter with you," she murmured, as
she put her arms round me. " You go on talking,
and don't mind us," she said sharply, turning
to the others, whose conversation had been
suspended by the movement. " Time enough to
stare like that," she added, turning to Mr Alderney,
who had put his glass in his eye the better
to observe her proceedings, "when it comes to
your turn." Upon which he dropped it with a
blush, and both the girls laughed heartily, and I
resigned myself to her ministrations with a sensation
of calm content which was entirely new tome
; and yet all she did was to sit by my side
and hold my hand without speaking, with a fixed
dreamy look into my face. " You're a-going' to
have trouble," she said, after a pause ; " and if
I'm anywhere aljout when it comes, you come to

old Hannah. I've never been a mother," she
added with a sigh, " and I ain't comfortable and
fleshy to lean upon; but I've got a mother's
heart, my dear, and when I feel a-drawin' to anyone
like I do to you, it's because I've got a use
to 'em somehow. Now it don't seem to me, sofar
as I can feel, as you ever rightly knew what
a mother's love was. Well, well, I've known
mother-love kill a mother, same as I've known
the want of it to kill a daughter. It all happened
in my own family. I had two sisters,
my dear, and one of 'em married a man as wasn't
of much account, against our mother's will, and
mother would never see her again ; and she took
it to heart so, she died. And the other sister
married, and had a daughter as married a mighty
rich man ; but he was downright bad, and she
left him, and she was that proud she never let
it be known where she had gone to ; and her
mother — that's my sister — never could hear of
her again ; and so she took it to heart, and pined
for that daughter till she died. It comes of
feelings not being properly divided, my dear.
Why on birth do heartless mothers have loving'
daughters, and heartless daughters have loving'
mothers ? Well, well, it's all a puzzle."

I feel that sensitive, my dear," she continued
after a pause, " to people as I feel a-
drawn' to, that I know when they are been'
starved for love by a chill as catches me all
about the heart. It Q-ets to feel cold and withered
up like — just as though a lump of ice was in my
chest, that was a-meltin' away and leaving nothing.
The way I know who it is as is suffering
is because of the sudden love I feel for them,
that seems to rush into that cold empty place.
That tells me I can do 'em good, and I can feel
it sorter coming' back to me from the person.
Now, dearie, you just keep on a-lovin' me all
you have a mind to. Why, old and thin as I
am, I've got a life in me as will build you right
square up." Then she stopped abruptly, and
after a moment added in a sharp tone, which
contrasted strangely with the wonderful tenderness
of her voice hitherto, " Come into the corner
— we're too near them chattering folks here
now ; " and she added when we could talk more
freely, *' I want you to tell me all about your
mother."

Even if I had desired, which I did not, it
would have been impossible for me to have
resisted the impulse which I felt to take this

stranger into the confidences of my heart. There
was such a completeness of comprehension in her
sympathy ; she seemed to divine my meaning sofar
beyond what it was possible for me to express
in words ; her faculty of intuitive perception was
so infinitely more acute than anything I had ever
met with in any individual before, and so much
at variance with the external impression produced
by her apparent lack of education and
refinement, — that I felt more and more surprised
at the union of such exquisite tenderness and
sensibility with so much that was strange and
uncouth. When, after describing the influences
by which I was surrounded, I went on to give
her some idea of my own views and aspirations,
she listened as one to whom such thoughts were
familiar — who had fathomed depths upon the
edge of which I was timidly venturing, and
attempted flights, the possibility of which I was
only dimly contemplating. Time slipped by so
rapidly that I felt I was only beginning to unburden
myself, when I was recalled to a recollection
of its flight by Mr Hetherington and Mr
Alderney getting up to take their leave.

I shall see Lord Sark tomorrow, and ask
him to introduce me to Baron and Baroness

Grandesella," he said, " when I hope often to
have the pleasure of seeing you."

My, how stiff you English are ! " said Mattie.
She's your own cousin ; why don't you just
run up-stairs and call at once ? We can find
out from the concierge whether the Baroness
has come in."

No, no," he replied smiling ; " it is as well to
be on the safe side. First I'll call with Sark,
and he'll introduce me ; then I'll call with Keith,
and introduce him ; then we'll bring Sark here
and introduce him to you ; then we'll expatiate
on your merits to the Grandesellas and bring
Sark's influence to bear, and they'll come and
call on you; then you return their visit; then
we'll all set sail together and go down before
the wind."

"And Mr Muckle, and Mrs Rhymer," I mentally
ejaculated as I listened to this programme,
they'll want to go down before the wind too.
I fear me it wil be an ill wind, but I trust it
may blow ' somebody good.' "

Good-bye, and God bless you, my dearie,"
said Hannah — I can't call her Miss Coffin anymore
— giving me a last embrace. " That's right,"
she said, turning to Mattie and Stella as they

too kissed me ; '' you make much of her — she's
worth it."

You bet," said Stella, laughing. " Now you
gentlemen mustn't be shocked if I occasionally
indulge in slang — I'll only do it when we're quite
alone ; but there are moments — such, for instance,
as a parting like this — when it's a relief
to one's feelings. One must say something,
and I was brought up with a prejudice against
swearing."

Chapter VII.

MRS CLYMER MEANS MISCHIEF.

The more Mr Muckle saw of Mrs Rhymer, the
more he felt convinced, not only that she was a
person whom it would be more desirable to have
as a friend than as an enemy, but that she might,
under the circumstances, be especially valuable
to him in the former capacity. He therefore
determined to cultivate her acquaintance ; and
when he asked her what was her usual hour for
receiving, she c[uite understood, and so did he,
that one which Lord Sark was not likely to
choose was the one which would suit them both
best. For she, too, felt instinctively that in
Muckle she would find a natural and congenial
ally. If he was afraid of Lord Sark's attractions
as a possible husband for Altera, she no less
dreaded the fascination which Altera might

possess for Lord Sark. While she saw in him a
financier whom she might turn to profitable account
for herself, he saw in her a confederate
through whom he might hold the Baron and
Baroness in check, if he had reason to suspect
they were playing him false. Moreover, there
were two or three weak points in the financial
combination to which Lord Sark had become a
party, which it was not impossible that she might
detect ; and he felt that it was desirable, therefore,
that they should discuss the matter fully,
and arrange the nature of the participation in it
of Mrs Rhymer herself. It was a great relief to
Muckle to find, after thoroughly explaining the
whole subject to that lady, that though undoubtedly
an unusually clever woman, her business
capacity was decidedly inferior to that of the
Baroness, who had been trained principally by
Muckle himself ; and he was easily able to satisfy
her that Sark was in good hands, so far as his
pecuniary prospects were concerned, and to obtain
from her a promise of cordial co-operation
on terms which he could easily afford to offer.
It is wonderful how a conversation, conducted
upon purely business principles between two
people of opposite sexes, who are neither of them

overburdened with scruples of conscience, creates
a rapid intimacy. Each feels a relief as each
recognises in the other a breadth of view, where
moral questions are concerned, which curiously-enough,
instead of inspiring mistrust, produces
rather a sense of admiration. They each conjecture
that there must be a point to which it would
not be safe to go without shocking the other, and
they may possibly each wonder if the other suspects
how remote that point is ; but so long as
the necessity does not arise, there is evidently no
use in o-oing; to it. In this confidential intercourse
both feel the same scorn of hypocrisy, both the
same impulse to a sort of frankness which engenders
a certain sympathy ; and Mr Muckle and
Mrs Rhymer could not have felt more intimately
acquainted if they had known each other for
years, than at the end of their first two hours'
chat over the way in which the public were expected
to contribute to the pecuniary resources
of the contractors and promoters of the Dark
Continent Electric Illumination Company. Indeed
it is probable that the result of a long
acquaintanceship would have left them very
much less friendly than they were now.

Is it true that Miss Peto will have a large

fortune of her own, or is she dependent on Baron
Grandesella ? " asked Mrs Rhymer.

The Baroness brought a large fortune to the
Baron on her marriage," replied Muckle. " The
late Mr Peto, who died suddenly, left the whole
of his property unreservedly to his widow ; and as,
on her marriage, she refused to have it placed intrust,
contrary to my strong representations, it
remains with her and her husband to make any
settlement on their daughter that they choose."

Are they in a position to make a large marriage
settlement on her now, and would they doit
if they were ? "

No doubt they could settle a large sum of
money on her, but its amount would depend
upon whom she married. If she were to marry
her cousin. Lord Sark, for instance, I believe they
would make a very considerable sacrifice."

Should you like to see her married to Lord
Sark, Mr Muckle ? " and as Muckle hesitated fora
moment, Mrs Rhymer extended her hand to
him with an air of the most engaging sympathy.
He put his into it, and to cover his embarrassment
— for this woman, having got off finance,
was now on her own ground — he put it to his
lips. " Tell me frankly," she went on. " We have

not known each other long; but we women, you
know, are quick where affairs of the heart are
concerned, and I have not seen you together
without forming my own conclusions. And she,
does she reciprocate ? "

'you seem to know so much," said Muckle,
'' that you need scarcely have asked me that."

'' I see," said the lady, pensively drawing her
hand from Muckle's, and putting her finger to
her forehead. " First, we have to prevent Miss
Peto from being married to Lord Sark ; secondly,
we have to marry Miss Peto to Mr Muckle ;
thirdly, we have to make the Baron give Miss
Peto as much money when she marries Mr Muckle
as he would have given her if she had married
Lord Sark. Excuse my being so blunt, but
there's nothing like bringing down affairs of the
affections to a business basis."

But whom are we to marry Lord Sark to ? "
said Muckle, who did not quite relish Mrs Rhymer's
offhand way of arranging such delicate
matters, considering that she was as deeply concerned
in them as he was. " I made the acquaintance
of a lovely American heiress a few nights
ago, who, I think, would just be the person to
help the Dark Continent Electric Illumination

VOL. I. H

Company to retrieve this lordship's shattered
fortunes."

Mr Muckle, I imagined you a person of more
sense and better taste than to allude to me of
Lord Sark's marriage ; it is neither sensible nor
delicate to force me to talk on a subject which
I should not be ashamed to discuss with you if
there were any necessity for it, but which I gave
you credit for sufficient penetration to understand
without expecting me to explain it to you.
If you don't understand it, I have entirely overrated
your intelligence ; if you do, you should
never have alluded to it, even by implication.
How long had you known the Baroness before
her marriage ? " she asked abruptly, without giving
him time to apologise or to recover from the
blow thus roughly dealt. The effect upon Muckle
of her whole speech was very much that which is
produced by the sudden hiss followed by the pat
of a cat ; and though not a person easily rebuked
or abashed, he winced involuntarily at the last
significant allusion. The movement was not lost
upon the sharp eyes of his questioner ; and without
waiting for an answer, she added — "She
must have been an attractive woman twenty
years ago, and her fortune must have made her

doubly SO. I wonder you allowed the Baron to
can her off. The Baroness tells me he was nota
Baron then;" and Mrs Rhymer rose, and in
her most silvery tone and tenderest accents, continued
— '' I am so sorry, dear Mr Muckle, that I
must send you away now ; I have an appointment
with Lord Sark, and must go and get ready to
go out. I have so enjoyed your visit, which I
hope will only prove the first of a series, now
that we find we have so many interests in common;"
and she touched the bell, and Muckle
found a servant waiting in the ante-room to show
him out, before he had clearly realised that his
visit had terminated.

He left the house with a disagreeable sensation
of defeat, and a consciousness that Mrs Rhymer
had already discussed him with the Baroness, and
was not the woman to make new acquaintances
without investigating their antecedents.

It is only due to Muckle to say that he had
left a feeling of discomfort in the breast of Mrs
Rhymer, by his allusion to a beautiful American
heiress, very much analogous to that which she
had produced in him. Mrs Rhymer had good
reason to know that Lord Sark was susceptible
to the fascinations of the sex. She was not without

experience of the powers of her own countrywomen,
and she dreaded the influence which
Muckle was evidently rapidly acquiring over her
lover, and the uses to which, if it suited his purpose,
he might put it. Two lovely girls, with
fortunes, in the field as rivals, were enough to
make any woman feel uncomfortable ; but Mrs
Rhymer was not one to shrink from a contest of
this sort, when it was forced upon her, and lacked
neither promptitude nor audacity upon such occasions.
Within an hour after Muckle had left her,
she was sitting alone with the Baroness, and cross-examined
that astute personage with a dexterity
worthy of a detective.

I am on my way, my dear Baroness," she
said, " to call upon your neighbours, the great
American heiress and her friend, — two of my
splurging young countrywomen, who come over
to Europe, and give you all such a false impression
of American society. Not that I can tolerate
it, at its best, but my curiosity has been excited
by Mr Muckle about these latest specimens. Do
tell me what you think of them, dear Baroness,
you who have seen so much of the world ? "

'' Now, Mrs Rhymer, you really are too hard
upon your fair compatriots. I think them quite

charming — so original, with a cachet quite their
own," replied the Baroness, who had her own
reasons for wishing to cement an intimacy with
the beautiful heiress. " I am so glad dear altera
has found such companions ; she is downstairs
with them now, dear child, so I am sure
you will find them at home."

I think Mr Muckle is already rather eris in
that direction," pursued Mrs Rhymer, slily.

But the Baroness, who saw the drift of this
observation, turned the point of it neatly by
saying that she did not think this could be the
case, as she had heard Mr Muckle remark what a
good match Miss Walton would be for Lord Sark.
So Mrs Rhymer, after some more futile attempts,
determined to lose no more time, and a few moments
later found herself standing; at the door
of the enti^esol. When it was opened to her, the
notes of a rich contralto voice flooded the antechamber,
which only ceased when her card was
taken in, and a pause, probably of wonder as to
who she was, was followed by a summons to enter.
A shier person than Mrs Rhymer might possibly
have been taken aback by the large group of
strangers upon whom she was thus forcing an
entry. Standing near the piano was a tall girl

whom she devoutly hoped might not be the heiress,
for Sark was passionately devoted to music,
and her extreme beauty was undeniable : accompanying
her was a gentleman, who was probably
her singing-master. At the corner of the
room was another girl absorbed in oil-painting,
also apparently under the direction of a master ;
while near her was standing a gentleman with a
glass in his eye, critically watching her performance.
At one of the windows was seated Altera
and an elderly lady darning a stocking, to whom
a handsome fair-haired man was talking so earnestly
that he scarcely seemed to perceive the
entry of the visitor. Evidently the tall girl was
the heiress, for she advanced to meet her.

I must introduce myself as a countrywoman,"
said Mrs Rhymer. " I have only just heard of
your arrival from our mutual friends, Mr Muckle
and the Grandesellas, whom I have been calling
upon u|)-stairs ; though, of course, I know you
well. Miss AValton, by reputation, and saw in the
American papers that you had left the States fora
trip to Europe." This was an effort of imagination,
but Mrs Rhymer felt that it was a safe one.
I could not resist coming to tell you at once
how glad I shall be to do anything to make your

stay ill Paris agreeable. I am only a visitor
myself, as I usually live in London, but I have
lived so often here that I almost feel a Parisian ;
and if you want to do any shopping, can tell you
all the best places to go to." Mrs Rhymer rattled
on with this long speech, as there's nothing like
talking to relieve embarrassment, and Miss Walton
introduced her to Miss Terrill, who was the
lady painting ; Mr Alderney, who was the gentleman
superintending ; Miss Coffin, who was
the lady darning ; and Mr Hetherington, who
was the gentleman talking to her ; and to the
drawing and singing masters — for she was too
republican to ignore their presence. Altera she
greeted effusively.

You find us in the middle of our studies, Mrs
Rhymer," said Miss Walton. '' My friend and I
make it a rule to work six hours a-day ; but we
have just finished our day's labours, so you don't
interrupt us, and we are delighted to see you.
What with what we've got to learn and see, the
days don't seem long enough. Lord Sark is
coming to take us to the Louvre. I hope you
will stay and go with us. Perhaps you know
him ? What o'clock did you say your cousin was
coming. Bob ? " she added, turning to Alderney.

Mrs Rhymer felt a cold shiver run down her
back, and for a moment her heart seemed to stop
beating. Here was the heiress already on such
intimate terms with Lord Sark's cousin as to
call him Bob, and that nobleman himself might
be expected at any moment. How long had this
intimacy existed ? How was it that Lord Sark
had concealed it from her ? It seemed incredible
that, in the few days which had elapsed since
their arrival in Paris, the heiress could have
made so much progress. The fact was, that
though Alderney had only introduced his cousin
a few days before, Sark had been captivated by
the delightful air of freedom which reigned in
the heiress's establishment, and had fallen in love
with the whole party. Miss Coffin included. He
was indeed at that moment on his way to them
in his coupe, looking forward with the utmost
delight to the effect which a series of slightly
draped Rubens's would produce upon that spinster
s unsophisticated mind. There was, in facta
sort of healthy breezy rush pervading the moral
atmosphere in which Mrs Rhymer now found herself,
which a good deal disturbed her equanimity.
She had often stormed a London afternoon tea
when she thought Lord Sark might be in danger.

and borne him off triumphantly from the midst of
beauties and heiresses ; but this was as little like
pursuing him in a London conventional kettledrum,
as deer-driving in Windsor Park is from
chamois-hunting in the Alps. There was a social
lawlessness about the whole performance just calculated
by its freshness to captivate the somewhat
hlase temperament of his lordship. • The
reckless way in which girls took their singing
and drawing lessons, and received young men
and young lady visitors, who were supposed not
to be in the way, and to be capable of amusing
themselves ; and the absence of any arriere-
pense of flirtation going on anywhere, — so confused
the intelligence of this sharp-witted lady,
that she had scarcely had time to decide upon
her own line of action when the door opened and
Lord Sark was announced. Though not easily
disconcerted, he flushed, barely perceptibly, on
seeing Mrs Rhymer — an indication of guilty consciousness
not lost upon that lady, who greeted
him with the easy intimacy of a proprietor ; for
this was a moment when she could not afford to
be embarrassed by scruples of delicacy. As she
did so, she turned to the window where Altera
was talking to Hetherington, irresistibly impelled

by the desire to see what impression the whole
episode was making upon the former, when her
glance was intercepted by one from Miss Coffin,
whose individuality she had till now scarcely
noticed, but the flash of whose eye was like that
of a sword drawn without provocation upon an
unarmed antagonist.

Why, what a large party of American cousins
we shall make," said Lord Sark, cheerily. " We re
all going to the Louvre, Mrs Rhymer. I hope,
even though you are not a cousin, you will come
with us."

Who knows that she ain't ? " said Hannah.
Now it's my opinion, Mrs Rhymer, you and
mell turn out to be someways related. You
never kin tell in a country like America, where
marriages and divorces runs so easy-like, where
relations mayn't turn up, even when you least
expect them, and least want 'em."

Mrs Rhymer had lived long enough in London
fashionable society to know how to avail herself
of the weapon commonly called "a well-bred
stare," and she applied it remorselessly to Hannah
on hearing this unpleasant suggestion ; but it
was entirely lost upon that good woman, whose
eyes had assumed a dreamy and almost glassy

look, as if she were peering into the records of
the past for some chie of the lost relationship.
Suddenly she said, " I have it now," and relapsed
instantly into silence.

Oh, do tell us how Mrs Rhymer's related to
you, Hannah, you dear old thing ! I didn't know
you had had a relation left in the world," said
Mattie.

I am afraid her utter destitution of them has
given a stimulus to her imagination," said Mrs
Rhymer, somewhat scornfully.

Come," said Lord Sark, who saw the suppressed
passion with which she resented what
she feared might seem her humiliation in his
eyes, "if we want to see the pictures before the
Louvre closes, we must be starting;" and in a few
minutes the party was en route, without the
delicate subject being again alluded to. Here
they unexpectedly stumbled upon Eonald MacAlpine,
who had been unable to resist following
his magnet to Paris, but had not yet summoned
up courage to call upon her : and it was Altera's
turn to show a slight embarrassment as she introduced
him to the rest of the party — observing
which, Mrs Rhymer and Hannah, in their different
ways, became contemplative, and an acute

observer might also have perceived a shade of
uneasy interest passing over the handsome countenance
of Hetherington ; but the two girls and
Alderney were too much absorbed with their
devotion to art to notice anything ; and Lord
Sark's attention was so distracted by his admiration
for the heiress, and his desire to conceal it
from Mrs Rhymer, that he, too, hardly noticed
the new addition to their party,

Do tell me," said the heiress to Lord Sark,
pointing to a large and fashionable party of
English, "why your countrywomen, especially
the young ones, all stick their elbows out, particularly
when they are shaking hands."

I am afraid," answered his lordship, " it is a
habit they have picked up from their brothers.
I can't say it is a very graceful one in either sex."

Laws ! " said Hannah, who had been watching;
these British feminine greetings with great interest,
" that ain't the reason. It's because they
laces so tight. You just try and buckle yourself
across the waist and chest like them tells, and
then see how it eases your breathing to stick out
your elbows. Why, you might as well try and
take long steps in a tie-back, as take a long
breath when you're laced like that, without opening

out your elbows ; ain't that so, Mrs Rhymer ?
you must know," — and she gave a comical look
at that lady's waist and elbows, which was evidently
en revanche for the well-bred stare to
which she had been subjected, and which her
opponent was unable to venture upon again. So
she took another line : as she could not knock
her down with her fan, she patted her playfully
on the shoulder with it, saying as she did so,
You naughty, quizzical old thing." She hoped
that to be called an " old thing," by an entire
stranger, might sting ; but it didn't, for Hannah
only gave a sort of chuckle, and said, " Wal, now,
you're getting' real friendly, like relations should
be."

Still, you know, that won't account for the
men doing it," said Mattie, anxious to get back
to the safer topic of the elbows.

Laws ! yes it does ; they jest fouler the tells.
It's the tells that sets the fashion."

"Not in England, I assure you," said Lord
Sark, much amused. " In America, I understand,
the women take the lead in most things ; but in
England, we flatter ourselves that the male sex
holds its own."

Bless you, they flatter themselves just the

same with us ! the question is — do they ? Now
there ain't no one here as knows as much about
the men of both countries as Mrs Rhymer. I'll
jest ask her what she says : which men have you
found most difficult to get along with, my dear ? "
But Mrs Rhymer, who had by this time become
convinced that she was too heavily handicapped
to be a match for Hannah, affected not to hear
this question, but to be absorbed in admiration
of a recumbent Venus of Titian, at which
Hannah, following the direction of her eyes,
could only gasp " My sakes ! " and then turning
abruptly round, walked off, for once fairly beaten
from the field.

CHAPTER Vii

Ronald MACALPIXE's KELTIC ENTERTAINMENT.

During the few weeks that followed this episode,
the intimacy of the party with whom the reader
has now made acquaintance, increased with the
rapidity which so often results from a chance
meeting of a group of strangers in a foreign
country, who, for lack of other friends, find
themselves constantly thrown into each other's
society. It is true that Hetherington, Alderney,
Muckle, the Grandesellas, Lord Sark, and Mrs
Rhymer were not without their Paris acquaintances,
but for various reasons the Californian
girls formed the nucleus round which the party
chiefly gathered, and Ronald MacAlpine was
soon drawn into the vortex, and became, perhaps
because it was an easy way of meeting Altera,
one of their most devoted attendants. Altera's

existence, prior to that episode in her affections
which she confided to the reader in her own
words in the first pages of this history, had been
so comparatively removed from contact with
society, that she failed in her appreciation of her
lover to convey any true impression of that
gentleman's real character or tendencies — of
which, indeed, she was totally ignorant. Though
nominally a member of a learned profession,
MacAlpine had early arrived at the conclusion
that he had a nobler mission in life than that of
defending clients, and that by developing what he
was pleased to term his genius, he might aspire
to the position of a social apostle in the age in
which he lived. He was just clever enough to
be the victim of a vanity which could feed upon
a variety of superficial tastes, which the more
amiable of his friends called talents, and which
therefore secured him a certain amount of admiration
and even homage. He dabbled in philosophy,
and had read enough of Herbert Spencer
to talk with a profound authority about the ^' unknowable,"
and patter his thin agnosticism to
progressive young ladies at London dinner-parties.
He had written two or three novels,
profusely decorated with stanzas of erotic poetry.

which he had subsequently culled from them,
and published in a volume apart, and called
Lyrics to Leda.' He had, moreover, a turn for
musical composition, and from this little volume
he had made a second selection, which he entitled
' The Swan's Last Notes,' and forced them
for a third time in that form upon an admiring
public. Then, as he had a tolerable tenor voice,
expressive eyes, and slender fingers, he used to
sing to his own accompaniment at the piano,
wien his stock of philosophical small-talk was
exhausted : added to which, he was an authority
upon all matters connected with art, from a
cathedral to a garter ; and his rooms in Mayfair
were more like About Antioch's back-shop in
Damascus, than a bachelor's quarters in London.

There was something very suggestive of the
progress of the age to find this descendant of an
old line of Scottish chiefs, whose ancestor had
been an aide-de-camp of Charles Edward in the
'45, and whose family traditions were of the
rudest and most barbaric type, thus developing
by the process of social evolution into a philosophical
litter aire, a musical aesthete, dabbling in
every evanescent hobby which a sated society
could invent, and devising new forms of eccen-

VOL. I. . I

trinity, which might increase at once his notoriety
and his hold upon the world of fashion in which
he lived. By dint of great industry at his little
pursuits, a persevering ingenuity in concentrating
attention upon himself, and a shrewd appreciation
of the weaknesses of his fellow-men, or rather
women — for it was among the latter that Eonald
was a special success — he had conquered for himself
the position of being, if not a lion, at least a
promising whelp ; and during the season the 
over his mantelpiece was abundantly
wedged all round with cards of invitation ; while
his services were required as a sort of entree, to
lighten the more solid fare of fashion at numerous
country houses. His great-grandfather, if
he spoke English at all, probably did so after the
fashion of those Hebrides characters with which
Mr Black's novels have made us so familiar ; but
Eonald had a style scarcely less widely removed
from the ordinary English vernacular of twenty
years ago. There was an unctuous deliberation
in his method of drawling out his criticisms in a
somewhat high key, with a peculiar distinctness,
which, in order to make them the more impressive,
was frequently interrupted by an affected
hesitation, partly deprecatory, partly insinuating,

and by a love of giving advice with an apologetic
manner, implying at the same time a conscious
authority, especially to the fairer portion of his
congregation. On these occasions his utterances
and gestures resembled those of a ladylike bishop.
To appropriate a novel and startling theory from
some author or speaker cleverer than himself, and
to give it vent, with a carefully prepared delicacy
of diction, to a group of female adorers, and expatiate
upon it to them as a profound and original
thesis of his own, was an art which Eonald MacAlpine
had cultivated to a high pitch of perfection
; and when he called upon our Californian
friends the day after he had been introduced to
them at the Louvre, he promised himself an
exquisite satisfaction in initiating their Western
minds into the finer subtleties of that delicate
thought, upon matters philosophic and artistic,
upon which he fancied himself so eminently
qualified to discourse.

I scarcely recognised you," said Altera, one
day when she happened to meet him paying a
visit in the entresol, " the first day I saw you at
the Louvre, — you look so different in the kilt, to
which I am accustomed."

I wear my national costume," said Eonald,

when I am where it does not occasion too much
remark, because it possesses a deeper meaning
than was ever suspected by the rude barbarians
from whom I have inherited the right to do so.
"Will you allow me," he went on, turning to
the two American girls, — 'nay, are you sure it
will not weary you, if I permit myself to explain
the true significance of — er — the Keltic
raiment ? "

Oh, pray do," said Stella ; " but I am afraid,
as I have never seen it, that I shall not be able
to understand it unless I saw it on. Don't you
think you could just run off to your hotel now
and put it on ? "

'' I am delighted that you show so much interest.
Miss Walton. I always keep it with me in
illustration of my theory ; and if you will do me
the honour to take tea in my rooms some afternoon,
I shall then be able to enlarge upon my
present remarks. You are aware, doubtless, that
at the time of the invasion of Scotland by the
Romans, the inhabitants of the southern portion
of that country were costumed after the fashion
of their ancestors, while the Kelts of the north
confined themselves principally to skins, either
their own, or — er — those of other animals. T

think I may venture to assert, with some confidence,
that the Kelts, struck by the picturesque
beauty of the uniform of the Eoman soldiers,
with whom they had thus been brought into
sanguinary conflict, arranged their skins in imitation
of it ; and so we have a rude resemblance,
continuing to the present day, of a costume
which, as a pure matter of artistic effect, would,
if it were restored to the original Eoman ideal,
be far more consonant with the loftiest conceptions
of raiment than the fantastic clothing at
present in vogue. I am therefore now engaged
in modifying and adapting the Keltic dress, and
should much wish to consult you in regard to
several points — which, perhaps, you will be better
able to judge of when you see it on. The hose,
as now worn, represents no article of Eoman
attire ; I am therefore doubtful whether to draw
them over the knee and attach them with a —
er — garter, or to reduce them by about two
inches, to the length of an ordinary sock, which
would make them correspond with the height of
the Eoman buskin."

What ! leaving so much more of the limb
bare ? " Stella had still retained too much of
the prejudices of her countrywomen to say leg.

Oh, that would be what I think you gentlemen
would call quite too exquisitely precious ! "

Pardon me," said Eonald. " To prevent the
cause of art suffering injury from the vulgar ridicule
which has been cast upon it by silly cartoons
in a — er — weekly periodical, and in dramatic
travesties, I refrain from using art language in
so early a stage of evolution. The jacket, which
was evidently an imitation of the corselet, must
be abandoned; and the kilt, instead of being
fastened round the waist, must depend from the
shoulders."

Oh, how delightful ! Mind you put it on
that way when we come to tea with you," said
Stella.

I am alluding to its modified condition — as
I propose it should be worn. Miss Walton ; in its
present form it would be — er — rather too short.
Thus elongated, it becomes a chiton or tunic,
over which will flow the plaid scarf, which thus
becomes the toga, of which it is a manifest relic."

It would require as much modification as the
kilt," said Altera, " to resemble the flowing robe
which we see on Eoman statues."

Naturally, in order to adapt its folds, it would
have to be cut out of a circular piece. I am

merely giving you the outlines of the idea. When
I have elaborated it, I purpose lecturing on the
subject before the Costume Reform Society, and
entertain hopes that a movement may be inaugurated
by which those art principles which we
have hitherto applied chiefly to house decoration
may be introduced into modern attire, and effect
a revolution in accordance with the — er — aesthetic
spirit of the age. At present, I regret to say
that art progress in dress is confined almost
entirely to women ; though," and he cast a
reproving glance upon his fair audience, "if you
will allow me to venture a criticism, I perceive
a sad lack of any of the loftier taste conceptions
in the costumes before me."

"Wal, now," said Hannah, who resented this
reflection upon American millinery, '' I think
we're all fixed up to the last notch. I guess,
before you git any of us to go about in your
Kiltie dress, as you call it, we shall have to see
what it's like."

A loud burst of laughter from the three girls
followed this sally of Hannah's, under cover of
which Eonald got up to take his departure, not
however, without a final arrangement being made
for the next meeting at his afternoon tea.

When, a few days after, the engagement was
kept, their host, appropriately attired in his
Highland dress, received them in the apartment
which he had already contrived to decorate with
various articles of bric-à-brac and solitary flowers
while a piano, which he had hired for the
occasion, was suggestive of the Lyrics of Leda
and the Last Notes of the Swan. The Baron
had been tempted by the prospect of expanding
his chest, in bass accompaniment. Mrs Rhymer
had come, because she felt sure that her voice
had a more powerful compass than Stella's, and
she was haunted by the fear of that young lady's
fascinations over Lord Sark ; his lordship had
come, because the feminine attractions generally
were irresistible; Muckle had come, because he
designed seriously to lay siege to the heiress ;
and the Baroness was there, of course, with
Altera. Hetherington and Alderney, in their
capacity of cousins and permanent escorts, could
not be omitted from such a gathering ; while
Hannah had come, impelled by an overpowering
desire to see the Keltic dress, which, in
accordance with the progressive art spirit of the
age, she fancied she might be required to adopt.
The little scream which she gave at the sight of

Konald's bare knees indicated more plainly than
any words could have done the shock which her
maidenly innocence had received, and she scarcely
listened with patience to the plaintive wail of the
Swan as he accompanied himself on the piano.
It was in the midst of a quartet by the Baron,
Eonald, Mrs Rhymer, and Altera, who had a
considerable musical talent, that Mr Muckle enticed
Stella into a small room adjoining, under
the pretence of examining a newly purchased
picture, and opened his campaign. He had been
leading up to it for some days past, and the reputed
heiress knew too much of the opposite sex
not to be perfectly aware of his intentions. She
seemed rather disposed to encourage them than
otherwise, and to his delight said, " What a
charming little room for a quiet chat, Mr Muckle !
It is quite refreshing occasionally to have a talk
with a practical business man when one is among
people who are so much given to pleasure or the
more trifling pursuits of life."

I have long felt. Miss Walton," said Muckle,
that you and I have very little sympathy with
the tastes which absorb some of our friends here,"
and he cast a somewhat contemptuous glance
round the carefully decorated little room.

It is SO common to suppose," she responded,
that sympathy needs feeding by sentiment,
and that sentiment needs to be stimulated by
music, or poetry, or flowers, or moonlight nights.
For my part, I can feel quite as sentimental over
a share - list as over the most lovely view in
nature; and what profounder sympathy can exist
than that which binds in a common interest a
pair of bulls or a couple of bears on the Stock
Exchange ? " Stella heaved a sigh charged with
such deep feeling as she made this remark, and
gazed into the depths of Mr Muckle's eyes with
so much tender meaning, that that gentleman,
who at first suspected she might be laughing at
him, changed his mind under an impulse of gratified
vanity, and gave his chair a little hitch
which put it three inches nearer to hers. Stella,
with a most delightful air of unconsciousness,
reciprocated, as if quite accidentally, by a corresponding
hitch, and reduced the distance three
inches more.

Muckle, whose position and avocation in life
had not afforded him many opportunities of cultivating
the fair sex, excepting under very questionable
conditions, now unexpectedly found
youth, beauty, and wealth smiling on him with

a degree of encouragement wych surpassed his
most sanguine hopes. For him the whole atmosphere
seemed suddenly charged with a subtle
and exquisite aroma, under the influence of which
his head began to swim, and his heart to beat
with a violence which he had never experienced
before, except on one occasion when he had found
himself compelled to osier his body as a target
at twenty paces to an angry opponent in Italy,
who had first accused him of cheating at cards,
and then added insult to injury by calling him
out ; but he was conscious that the pulsation
from a thrill of pleasure produced a very different
sensation from the pulsation with a
thrill of alarm — a physiological problem which
Altera might have sought to solve, but
which he was too much engaged otherwise to
dwell upon. His eye roved from the slender
arched foot to the white taper fingers of his
charmer, playing with a tassel almost touching
his hand, to the tempting, exquisitely moulded
parted lips, and then stealing more timidly upwards
to the half-raised lids fringed with their
long silky lashes ; and as they suddenly opened
and caught his conscious gaze with their full, soft,
penetrating glow, he morally sank a captive at

the feet of his enslaver, — an emotion entirely
new to him seemed to deprive him of the power
of utterance.

Miss Walton," he said at last, in a changed
voice, "you exercise an influence over me such
as no woman ever has before done. I meant in
bringing you here for a moment's conversation to
tell you all I felt, but that has become impossible,
for my whole nature seems to have undergone
a revolution."

But you can always try," said Stella, sympathetically.
" First tell me what you felt first,
and then tell me what you feel now. You will
find me a most interested listener."

Well," said Muckle, thus encouraged, " what
I felt was that I recognised in you a person
whose talents, wealth, and beauty eminently
qualified you to adorn any society ; and I was
going to propose to you, upon a purely business
basis — all sentiment apart, because I supposed
that we were both people incapable of being
influenced by it — an alliance by which certain
advantages which I may venture to say I possess,
might supplement yours. In other words. Miss
Walton, I imagined that I could calmly ask you
to be my wife upon a practical estimate of the

benefits we might both derive from such a ■anion.
1 am now conscious that it is impossible for me
to make you such a proposal on the grounds I
originally intended. I feel that they were unworthy
of you ; but I none the less lay my heart
at your feet."

On what grounds now ? " asked Stella, calmly.

On those of a passionate devotion to the
woman I love. Stella ! "

But Stella interrupted him.

I prefer the other ones. Do you know
you are sinking rapidly in my estimation, Mr
Muckle ? I gave you credit for sound practical
common - sense, instead of which you are
talking the usual sentimental nonsense, which
I am tired of hearing. Please let us get back
to business. Before I can entertain your
original idea, you would have to make out a
schedule of your assets and liabilities. I should
naturally require some references as to the commercial
standing of the firm, and I should have
to look carefully into the nature of the contracts
and other enterprises in which it may be engaged.
The character of the securities you might have
to osier for any contributions I might make
would have to be considered ; and if, after going

into the whole thing thoroughly, I should find
everything satisfactory, I am not prepared to say
that a partnership — even of the character you
at first contemplated — might not be possible.
Besides business references, I should require social
ones ; or, stay — there is one which will quite
satisfy me. If Miss Peto, who has known you
all her life, endorses you with her approbation, I
shall be satisfied, so far as your personal character
is concerned. There will remain only the
financial considerations. When these are all
settled, I will lay before you a balance-sheet of
my own assets, and we can decide upon the extent
of my contributions. But you will understand
that in saying this I commit myself to
nothing. Until the final contract is signed,
the parties to it must not be considered bound
in any way ; and we must fix a time limit — say
two months from now — at the expiration of
which term this preliminary arrangement is at
an end."

Muckle looked up at the end of this speech with
very much the expression of an angry man who
has been held under a douche against his will.
Naturally of a violent temperament, when his
will was thwarted, he found himself in a position

which, while it humiliated him, rendered him
absolutely powerless. Miss Walton had, after
all, merely made him the proposition which he
had intended to make her ; and he now became
aware, when the tables were turned upon himself,
of the insult which it implied, and which he
had confessed he had intended to offer the woman
for whom at that moment he felt a devouring
passion. *' If you are only to be won by schedules,
and balance-sheets, and assets, Miss Walton," he
said bitterly, " I will win you that way."

There," she replied ; " you can't think how
much better I like you like that, — when you are
nice and natural and practical and business-like,
than when you make yourself ridiculous by talking
sentiment. Now we quite understand each
other. The first move in the game which you
talk of winning — mind, in two months — is the
approval of Miss Peto to the whole transaction."

And as the quartet had reached the crescendo
which indicated the final flourish. Miss Walton
got up languidly and strolled into the next room,
followed by Muckle, in a more suppressed condition
than was usual with that gentleman.

Although Mrs Rhymer had particularly distinguished
herself in the quartet, the disappearance

of Stella and Muckle had not been lost upon
her, and she gazed keenly into their countenances
when they returned. Stella's face was a blank
page, but much was to be read by so astute an
observer in Muckle's countenance ; and Mrs
Rhymer determined to devote herself to consoling
him, as she called it to herself, for the rest
of the afternoon. But indications of discomfort
on the part of Muckle suggested that the process
was anything but consolatory to that gentleman,
who was the first to make his escape, in a very
bad humour, from Eonald MacAlpine's Keltic
entertainment.

CHAPTER IX.

Stella's confidences.

If, the night after the occurrences just related,
some of the gentlemen most interested could
possibly have peeped into a certain bedroom on
the entresol of No. Quatre-vingt dix-huit, Eue
du dix-huit Mars, dix-huit cent soixante et onze,
it is probable that they would have found some
difficulty in withdrawing their indiscreet and admiring
gaze, while it is certain that they would
have heard a good deal that was not intended
for their eager ears. For here, wrapped in flowing
peignoirs, with their luxuriant hair rippling
down their backs, and their daintily slippered
little feet resting on the fender, languidly reposing
in a couple of easy-chairs, sat Stella Walton
and Mattie Terrill, regardless of the fact that it
was one o'clock in the morning, — as the opera

VOL. I. K

from which they had just returned was over at
an unusually late hour, — one looking like a queen
en deshabille, and the other like a gipsy in full
dress, but both in their way with a charm peculiarly
their own — evidently very wide awake,
and fully determined to take advantage of that
witching small hour of the morning when girls
most love to unburden their fluttering little
hearts to each other, and exchange delicious confidences.
And here I must remind my reader,
in order to prevent confusion, that the girls had
changed names, and, lest they should unguardedly
betray themselves before the world, had
determined to keep up the delusion when alone.
It had become a sort of idee fixe with Mattie
Terrill — whose real name was Stella Walton —
that she was unusually plain (which was by no
means the case), and that she was more likely to
be married for her money than for love — which,
considering her colossal fortune, was no doubt
true ; and hence she had persuaded her friend,
before leaving America, to become a party to her
little ruse, and adopt the role which that young
lady willingly undertook, inspired thereto by the
innate love of mischief which was a prominent
feature in her character. Even Miss Coffin entered

into the joke with a certain grim enjoyment,
as, according to her, " men were mainly
made to be fooled ; " but she had made so many
mistakes in attempting to address the girls by
their changed names in public, that it had come
to be an understood thing that when she wanted
to attract the ear of the false heiress, she always
began her remark with " Say ! " and when she
wanted to talk to the real heiress, who had been
her pet from babyhood, she addressed her as
Honey ! " By rigidly confining herself to this
rule, and never venturing to introduce them to
strangers, she had so far avoided any serious or
compromising mistakes.

Mattie, dear," said the lovely Stella, suddenly
disclosing a small packet, which she had
kept concealed in her lap, and drawing from ita
cigarette, " I am going to have a smoke : they
say it is calming to the brain, and I feel like
wanting to be calmed ; " and she lit her cigarette
at the candle, and gave a puff which was half a
sigh, — an untoward combination, which brought
on an immediate fit of coughing.

"Bob says it does not really calm you unless
you inhale," said Mattie. " I tried it the other
day, but the only effect was to choke me to a

most exciting extent. Fortunately, as I told
him, I did not want calming ; whereupon he took
such a deep inspiration of smoke, that I quite
trembled lest it should never reappear: it did,
after some time, through his nose. He said he
found it necessary, when he was with me, to
smother his feelings. I said I would not give
much for feelings that could be smothered by a
whiff of tobacco-smoke. Then he said that I did
not know what it was to be penniless. I did not
see the connection of this remark, but I suppose
he meant, poor fellow, that he was so poor that
he could not buy himself enough cigarettes ; so I
said, rather heartlessly, that the best thing to do,
if you had a bad and expensive habit which you
could not afford, was to give it up. Then he
said it was not smoking, it was something else
he was trying to give up. I asked him ' What ? '
on which he bluntly replied, ' An idiotic attachment.'
I said I was very happy to hear that he
thought that being in love with improper or
married women was idiotic, as to my mind this
custom, so prevalent in Paris, quite accounted
for the idiocy of the French youth generally ; and
I was very glad that he had come to take a sensible
and moral view of the matter. You see I

thought it best for his good to speak frankly, and
not to pretend to be so innocent or prudish as
not to dare to call things by their right names.

*' * Good heavens, Mattie ! ' he burst out, ' you
don't suspect me of anything so shocking ? The
person I love is one of the purest and best of her
sex.'

' Then I don't see anything in the least idiotic
about it,' I said.

' But how can I marry without anything to
marry upon ? ' he went on. ' Do you know what
my income is, Mattie ? exactly one pound a-day ;
and I have always been so glad it wasn't more,
because it would have confused my accounts.
Now a pound a-day is a nice easy sum to remember
; and I like my studies so much better than
any profession or appointment that could be
offered me, that I have refused everything, and
been quite happy with it, till now I find that all
my happiness in life is blasted by the smallness
of the amount.'

' But,' I said, ' if the " person," as you call
her, is worth anything, and cares for you, she
will gladly share a pound a-day with you. Why
shouldn't you go and live in some cheap place
and study together ? '

' Do you really mean it, Mattie ? ' he said,
blushing very much, and looking at me very
earnestly : and then seeing, apparently, that I
did mean it, he took my hand, and said, ' Oh,
my darling, how happy you have made me ! ' and
so on. It's no use saying all he said. It all
happened this morning when you were out riding
with Mr Muckle, and I was alone with him here
studying the Zend Avesta. You know he is
making translations of the Ya9na and Whispered,
and all the other writings on Mazdeism, and I
am learning the character so as to try and help
him ; he has just finished a translation of the
Yidse Data, or the law against demons. You
can't think how interesting it is ! Imagine what
fun it will be, Stella, when he finds out that,
instead of five dollars a-day to live on, we shall
have nearly five thousand ! "

"My dear Mattie," exclaimed Stella, whose
large eyes had been getting rounder and rounder
during this recital, "you take my breath away !
Why, how slily you have managed matters !
even I am taken by surprise. Do you mean
to say that you have engaged yourself to
Bob Alderney?"

Well, not irrevocably. . In the first palace,

while he is studying Mazcleism with me, I am
going to study him with Mazdeism. I asked
him if he was prepared, should I require him todo
so, to give up his beloved orientalis, and
become a stockbroker in New York. You should
have seen the wry face he made at the prospect
of being a possible millionaire. I don't know
which he hated most — the pill or the gilding;
however, he swallowed it, and I let him give me
one kiss, poor fellow, to take the taste out of his
mouth, and said, ' Then that is settled.' I shall
let him remain in this delusion for a month or
more, — it will have an excellent moral effect
upon him. He said ruefully, ' I thought you
began by agreeing that we were to live on a
pound a-day and study.'

' Oh,' I said, ' I constantly change my mind.'
I'm going to make myself as disagreeable to
him as I can all the time we are engaged, just to
see what kind of a temper he has got ; and then,
if he stands the ordeal, when he discovers at last,
that besides my fortune he possesses a wife with
an angelic disposition, the moral surprise will be
more delightful than the material. Oh, Stella,
what a splendid thing it is to find a man who
hates money so much that he won't object to my

giving most of it away, if I have a mind to, and
who will marry me on five dollars a-day, regardless
of consequences ! "

I call it simply reckless," said Stella. " How
does he know how many little consequences you
may not have?" and then she jumped up and
put her arms round her friend's neck, which she
moistened with a few tears of honest congratulation,
which, when Mattie felt, she said, "Why,
Stella, darling, what's the matter ? "

Oh, I am so happy," said the beauty.

Yes ; but that's not all," said Mattie. '' You're
a little sad, too ; tell me what it is about — confidence
for confidence, you know. It seems tome,
though we have scarcely been a month in
Paris, that the romance of our lives is overtaking
us pretty quickly ; and I have been so absorbed
with my own affairs, I have not been watching
yours."

Ah, mine are much more complicated," said
Stella, smiling through the large pearl-drops that
stood in her eyes. " At present there are three
men making love to me in various degrees,
and animated by various sentiments ; and I
am making . violent love to the one I hate, and
turning a cold shoulder on. the one I like, and

coquetting with the one to whom I am absolutely
indifferent."

It was now Mattie's turn to display wonderment,
while StelLa went on with a calm analysis
of the situation.

And that is only the least of it. It is like
the house that Jack built. This is the man that
Stella hates. This is Stella who makes love to
the man that she hates. This is the man in love
with Stella, who makes love to the man that she
hates. This is the woman in love with the man
in love with Stella, who makes love to the man
that she hates. This is the girl who despises the
woman in love with the man in love with Stella,
wiio makes love to the man that she hates. This
is the man in love with the girl who despises the
woman in love with the man in love with Stella,
who makes love to the man that she hates. This
is the fool who is jealous of the man in love with
the girl who despises the woman in love with the
man in love with Stella, who makes love to. the
man that she hates. From which brilliant illustration
you obtain a dramatis personage of four
men and three women all inextricably entangled
in the web of their affections."

My dear Stella, how silly you are ! How on

earth do you expect me to make head or tale of
such a jumble as that ? Do put names on them,"
said Mattie.

The man, then, whom 1 hate, but to whom I
make love, is Mr Muckle. The man making love
to me, and whom I love — there is no use mincing
matters by calling it ' like ' — is Lord Sark ; the
woman in love with Lord Sark, is Mrs Rhymer ;
the girl who despises her, is Altera Peto ; the
man in love with Altera is Keith Hetherington ;
the fool who is jealous of Keith Hetherington,
because he was once himself, and may be still, in
love with Altera, though he is now coquetting
with me, is Eonald MacAlpine. Now, in order
to enlighten your mind, which, my dear Mattie,
has been a good deal bewildered by your studies
of the Zend Avesta, I will enter fully into detail.
Know, then, that it is the fixed determination of
Mr Muckle to marry either Altera or me. He
really prefers me, partly because I have taken
the trouble to captivate him, and partly because
he supposes I have so much the largest fortune ;
but then, I am not Lord Sark's cousin, or connected
with the aristocracy, so he fluctuates in
his feelings, and when he is alone with Altera
he tries to make love to her, but does not succeed,

because she can't bear him ; and when he is alone
with me, he tries to make love to me, and does
succeed, curiously enough, because I can't bear
him either. Should he find out that I am not
an heiress, nothing could save Altera from
Muckle, for he seems to have some hold over the
Grandesellas which would compel Altera to sacrifice
herself. I intend, therefore, to hook him,
land him, and dien Altera is otherwise safely
provided for, sell him. I am convinced he is a
scoundrel and deserves no better fate. Now I
believe Lord Sark to be honestly and sincerely
in love with me and not with my supposed
wealth, and to be no less honestly and sincerely
desirous of escaping from the clutches of the
Rhymer; but I am also convinced that dear
Altera, though she does all she can to conceal it,
is no less honestly and sincerely in love with
Lord Sark, and the only way of saving her from
Muckle is by her marriage with him, which the
Grandesellas are most anxious for. Hence I disguise
my feelings and behave brutally to him, —
hinc nice lacrimce, as Bob would say," and she
lao-hed through them. *' I could not do a better
turn to the man I love than save him from the
Rhymer and marry him to Altera ; unfortunately

Keith Hetherington is in love with Altera, and
he would be worthy of her, but he must be sacrificed,
as she does not seem to care for him, and
the Grandesellas would not hear of it, as he is
only a second son. As for Eonald MacAlpine,
with his scraps of poetry, and his literary dabbling,
and his musical compositions, and his
aesthetic jargon and smattering of philosophy, I
merely amuse myself with him because he seems
to be a typical specimen of the age in which we
live, and to keep him from bothering other people.
There now," she concluded, — " with all this on
my brain, do you wonder at my trying to calm
it with a cigarette?"

Why, Stella," said Mattie, as she jumped up
with undisguised admiration, "you're a perfect
heroine, you grand, self-sacrificing creature ; but
I won't let you do it, — you shan't throw your
happiness away, to say nothing of the worldly
advantages, which I don't think so much of myself,
in this way. I shall find out what Altera's
real sentiments in the matter are, and I shall tell
Lord Sark. Poor man ! are his feelings not to betaken
into consideration ? if, as you say, he really
loves you, are you both to be sacrificed to this
excess of chivalry ? " .

And you would have me stand by and see a
noble nature like Altera's trampled upon by a
wretch like Muckle ? " interrupted Stella. '' Whatever
happens, I will not provide for my own happiness
while that contingency remains open. If
I have obtained a certain power over the man, I
mean to use it — if not for his own stood, as that
seems impossible, at all events to prevent his
doing harm to others. No, Mattie, don't interfere
in this matter. I am responsible for the
influence your fortune gives me while it is supposed
to be mine, and I am going to see what
good I can do with it. I made a mental resolution
to that effect when you asked us to change
characters, or I would never have consented to
play the part of heiress. You must let me play
it my own way till the time comes for handing it
over to Bob. And till that time comes, our secret
must be jealously preserved."

Trust me for that," said Mattie. '' If Bob had
the slightest suspicion that I was the heiress, he
would disappear into the deserts of Arabia, and
write me love-letters in cuneiform, explaining the
matrimonial disabilities of a pauper. He must
not know anything about it till the last moment.
But though I am not the heiress now, I still have

the responsibilities attaching to my prospects,
and in the meantime I am not going to let all
the self-sacrifice be on one side," — which enigmatical
remark Mattie rounded off with a portentous
yawn, to indicate that even the most interesting
love-conversation must have an end.

Chapter X.

MR Muckle MAKES A DOUBLE PROPOSAL.,

I WISH I understood the law of crises. I suppose
it lias an intimate connection with that other
mysterious problem, the law of chances. If one
comes to that, all laws are problems, and the
most incomprehensible of all are the laws of the
land. This arises from the fact that judges and
juries always treat unfortunate mortals as if they
could control circumstances, and circumstances
never controlled them. In other words, the
anomalies of our jurisprudence, not to say its
cruelty and injustice, arise from an imperfect
appreciation of the laws of free-will and responsibility
; for this reason I have not the slightest
respect for the laws of the land. If I obey them,
I do so for the same reason that I obey mamma,
for whom also I have not any respect — because
VOL. I. L

it would be most inconvenient not to do so. If
I thought that human laws had the remotest
resemblance to those which are divine, I should
either not only obey but respect them, or else,
perhaps, not respect those which were divine.
I merely mention this in the solitude of my
chamber, to the privacy of my journal, which, I
am sure, no human eye will ever see ; because,
since it has become a question of marrying me to
some one, whether I like it or not, I have been
reading up the subject in some law books which
Bob Alderney borrowed for me, and the distinction
they make between y^mme^ soles andfemmes
couvertes is perfectly monstrous — utterly opposed
to reason and common-sense. I have constructed
half-a-dozen cases, where to be their victim would
involve an outrage and violation of the holiest
instincts of a woman's nature. That is why I
began by saying I wish I understood the law of
crises, because, should I ever be forced to obey
those instincts which I believe to be divine
rather than the human law, there would come
a crisis. Now I have always had a theory that
from time to time our lives culminate to crises.
Then the crisis bursts, and we begin again, and
slowly or rapidly, as the case may be, culminate

to another crisis. I am very young, but I have
already seen enough to know that these critical
periods are inevitable incidents in the system of
the universe. They occur with individuals, they
occur with nations, they occur even in nature.
The history of the world and of humanity attests
the truth of this statement ; but what is the law
by which they are governed ? It is evident that
they depend upon combinations, which seem fortuitous,
of individual influences, and this connects
them with the law of chances. For instance, I
am taking a walk. I come to a fork in the road.
I doubt whether I will go to the right or the
left. Without any apparent motive I go to the
right. I accidentally meet some one. That chance
meeting turns out the pivot upon which my
whole future life hinges. It changes my destiny.
Had I gone to the left, it would not have taken
place, and the fate of hundreds, which were subsequently
to be influenced by mine, would have
been different, as well as my own. In our blindness
our fates cross and recross, and our destinies
become bound together by those chains of circumstances,
the links of which are surely forged
in the invisible world. I feel a sort of iron web
being woven about me even now. I instinctively

sense the organisms whose destinies are
linked with mine, whether for good or evil, irrespective
of my will, with which, since I have
been in Paris, I have come into contact ; they
are — Mr Muckle, Hannah, Lord Sark, Mrs Rhymer,
Stella Walton, and Mr Hetherington ; as to
Mattie Terrill, Bob Alderney, and Mr MacAlpine,
their fates may indirectly affect mine, but only
remotely. The Baron and mamma I have had
to count with from the first. Our three threads
formed the skein to begin with, to which Mr
Muckle's was almost immediately added. Oh,
if I could only peep into the other world, and
watch the " Fates," as they were called by the
ignorant old heathen, weaving the other five
into them ! The reason I feel so sure of this is,
that during the past month I have had private
conversations with several of the above-mentioned
individuals, and each pregnant with fate.
I will narrate them, beginning with Mr Muckle.
We were riding together in the Bois de Bologna
when it took place''

Altera," he began, " you are now a woman,
and a sensible woman, and the time has come forme
to speak to you frankly upon a subject of the
utmost importance to us both. Ever since you

were twelve years old, I determined to win you
for my wife. You need fear no opposition on
the part of the Baron or your mother, should
you decide to take me for your husband. You
have known me from infancy, while I have never
lost an opportunity of manifesting the admiration
which I sincerely felt for your character as
I watched it develop. The time has now come
for me to tell you this, and to ask you for your
answer."

Mr Muckle," I replied quietly, "it is because
I have known you from my childhood, and have
had every opportunity of studying your character,
that I feel convinced we are totally unsuited
for each other. While I am very sensible
of your kindness and the compliment it implies,
I am sure you will not attempt to force my inclinations
in this matter."

The peculiar dark predatory look, with which
I am so familiar, clouded his face as he answered
—

I was prepared for this refusal. Now that I
have had the advantage of seeing; as well as of
hearing of Mr Mac Alpine, it is accounted for ;
but no rival should stand in the way, had I not
had occasion to modify my determination as to

the line of conduct I had chalked out for myself.
I am not, as you know, Altera, a sentimental
man, nor am I a harsh one, except when I am
driven to harshness to accomplish my ends. It
is not necessary for me, therefore, unless I am
forced to it, to tell you why it would not be in
your power to resist my will in this matter if I
chose to exercise it. You may think this an
empty threat, but were it expedient, I could
prove to you at this moment that it is not. I
hope it never may be necessary for me to allude
to it again. I can offer you an escape from the
fate you seem so much to dread," he added sardonically,
" if you will help to provide me with
another. It may seem strange for me in one
breath to ask you to become my wife, and in the
next to assist in advancing my suit with someone
else, but I have never regarded marriage
from a sentimental point of view. In Miss "Walton,
I find nearly all the advantages which you
so eminently possess. She is clever, beautiful,
and wealthy ; and if she is not so well connected
as you are, her nationality dispenses with considerations
which would be important were she
an Englishwoman. I have therefore decided
upon placing my hand at her disposal. By

entering Parliament, I have laid the foundations
of a social position which she is calculated at
once to grace and to improve. You will see
that it is essentially in your interest to use the
great influence which you possess with her and her
two friends, especially the old one," he pursued
with a sneer, " to induce her to regard my suit
favourably. • Having known me all your life, your
testimony to my worth of character, amiability
of disposition, and matrimonial temperament
generally, cannot fail to have weight. I know,
dear Altera, that, under the circumstances, I
can rely upon you," and he held out his hand as
though to conclude the bargain. I took it in
silence. On the one hand, I was not going to
commit myself in words to this unholy alliance ;
on the other, I wished to lull his suspicions as to
what I really intended to do in the matter. For
cofcte que route, whatever might be the value of
this threat, that if he failed to win Stella, he
would fall back upon me, I was determined
never to let that dear noble girl fall a victim to
so unscrupulous an adventurer ; and now that he
had shown me his cards, I was fully decided to
avail myself of my knowledge to frustrate his
designs. I therefore even went so far as to respond

to his enclosing palm with a gentle pressure,
which he might construe as he liked, and
merely said —

I now quite understand you. You will agree
with me that the subject is too delicate for us to
discuss further;" and in the same breath, in order
to change it, pointed out Lord Sark driving in a
victoria with Mrs Rhymer.

'' Ah," he said, " there goes my rival ! but I
know how to put a spoke most effectually into
his wheel. With the Rhymer for an ally, and the
company for a trap, or the company for an ally
and Mrs Rhymer for a trap, — it does not matter
much which way you put it, — Lord Sark is not a
dangerous antagonist. By the way," he added,
as though a sudden thought flashed upon him,
if I succeed with Stella AValton, what nobler
mission could you desire than to save Lord Sark
from the Cl}niier ? You would make the Baron
and your mother eternally grateful by marrying
your cousin."

"Yes," I said ; " but I should have to hold my
affections in suspense until you had terminated
your campaign successfully with Stella, and that
might not be possible. Don't you think you are
risking a great deal in suggesting such an idea ?

Suppose Stella refused you, would you expect
Sark and me to change our minds ? "

OH, she won't refuse me if you will only say
a good word for me. At any rate, of one thing
I feel certain, and that is, that she will never
accept him. She makes the most marked difference
in her manner towards his lordship and myself.
However, far be it from me to suggest that
you should involve your affections in any direction,
— all I want is your support with Stella."

An idea here rapidly flashed across me, and
I gave a sigh which caused him to look up
hurriedly.

You were ridiculously mistaken in thinking,"
I said, — and I am conscious I blushed while
speaking, at the delicate ground I was treading
on, — "that I was in love with Mr MacAlpine.
It is as well that you should know, what I should
have told you had you pressed me further, that
my affections are already engaged, but not to him.
Of course I do not know the nature of the threat
you hold in terrorem over me. I hope, as you say,
that there will never be any necessity for you to
enforce it ; but I can conceive of no pressure
which it would ever be in your power to bring
to bear which could compel me to marry against

my inclinations, the more especially since they
have become already involved in another quarter."

Mr Muckle, who was by no means a polite
person when he was off his guard, gave vent to
a long, low whistle ; and at that moment Lord
Sark and Mrs Rhymer, seeing us, drove up. Her
presence alone with him at such an hour, and her
audacity in coming up to speak to us, caused me
to colour violently ; and I felt that the conviction
suddenly forced itself upon Mr Muckle's
mind, as he observed it, that he had not to look
further for the object of my attachment, the
more especially as Mrs Rhymer could not resist
shooting at me one of those jealous glances which
so acute an observer as my riding companion
could not fail to intercept.

Whose fate were you discussing with such
earnestness ? " she remarked, with a meaning
laugh. " My lord here has been bowing in vain
to Miss Peto, but she seemed to have no eyes nor
ears except for you, Mr Muckle."

"We were just then talking about you, Mrs
Rhymer," he answered with the greatest coolness.
"You know the proverb, 'Talk of the — angel,'
and so forth."

Lord Sark and I were much less scandalous,"

she remarked, " for we were discussing the prospect
of the Dark Continent Electric Illumination
Company. Apropos, come and see me tomorrow
at two ; I have something of importance to talk
over with you."

I shall be at home at two, Lord Sark," I
said, and I saw Mrs Rhymer s face flush with
anger as we passed on without allowing time
for a reply. Mr Muckle for the rest of our ride
was absorbed in a brown study, and I was only
too glad to leave him in it.

It was therefore about the hour on the following
day that Mr Muckle was having his interview
with Mrs Rhymer that I had the conversation
with Lord Sark, which I also believe to
have been " critical." I had long been thinking
how to open his eyes to the dangers by which he
was surrounded, and to release him from the
bondage in which he was held, when the opportunity
seemed thus providentially furnished, for
I knew my mother was going to a concert ; and
at two o'clock, accordingly. Lord Sark made his
appearance.

You may think it strange of me," I said, " to
ask you to call at an hour when I knew my
mother would be out ; but I have had to act so

much for myself through life, that perhaps I am
less conventional than most girls, and this must
also be my excuse for what I am going to say."
I then explained to him, as shortly as I could,
my theory about the crisis in our lives — about
free-will and moral responsibility — about organic
influences and the necessity of evolving the
highest ideal conception of daily life, and then of
trying to live up to it, — and justified my making
a personal application of these theories to
both of us by the strong conscientious conviction
which I felt that it was my duty to do so, because
I believed that every human being — even
an unprotected and ignorant girl — might possess
an influence which she might exercise for good.
His mind had been so little trained to considerations
of this nature, that he evidently followed
me with difficulty ; but he admitted that every
individual exercised an influence of some sort or
other ; that it must be either for good or evil ;
and that they were responsible for it. So then
I asked him what kind of influence Mrs Rhymer
was likely to exercise upon three pure girls, and
whether he could justify having been the means
of bringing her into contact with Stella Walton,
Mattie Terrill, and myself. " So strongly do

I feel on this subject, Lord Sark," I went on,
that either she must go away, or we must.
How it is to be managed, I don't clearly see ; and
this was my reason for asking you to come and
discuss the matter with me."

But, my dear Altera," he said, looking stupefied
with amazement, " Mrs Rhymer is the most
intimate friend of half the girls in London ; their
mothers make no objection to their intimacy with
her. Society has accepted her without question ;
and I scarcely think you have a right to set
yourself up against it. You have no proof that
Mrs Rhymer is not as virtuous as any other
woman in London. In fact, her conduct is irreproachable.
She is nothing more than a great
friend of mine ; and most pretty women who
have lost their husbands, or are unhappily married,
or whose husbands don't object, have great
friends of the other sex. Life would be intolerable
to them otherwise, poor things ! but the
intimacy need not necessarily be improper."

I have nothing to do with London society,
or its customs, or its standard of morality," I
replied ; " this is a special case. Stella Walton
is my great friend. I have seen enough of you
to feel the highest regard for you. I see what

your feeling for her is. It is neither doing justice
to you nor to her that this woman should remain
here. You cannot be her great friend without
doing yourself an injury which must pass through
you to others. You are under her spell, and asa
spell-bound person you affect others hurtful.
You are charged, if I may so express myself,
with a poisonous magnetism which you disseminate."


That may all be true — it is somewhat beyond
me," said Sark ; " but granting it to be so, how
is it to be remedied ? I can't go, because I am
attracted like a moth to a candle by Stella, with
whom, as you have rightly divined, I have fallen
deeply and passionately in love. Mrs Rhymer
will not go away, because she is determined, if
possible, to prevent the match ; and I can't make
her, because, as you say, she has got me under
some spell, which I can only resist in one point.
She has been urging me to leave Paris, but here
I am able to stand my ground."

In other words, you're like one of those toy
geese that follow magnets," I said, " only in this
case there are two, and they pull with equal force
in opposite directions. The result is that you
are paralysed — that is why I say Mrs Rhymer

must go away, and you would instantly gravitate
in the right direction."

I am sure Stella does not try to attract me,"
lie gloomily replied, " for she is coldness itself ; she
seems entirely taken up with that fellow Muckle.
I wonder what sort of magnetism his is ? "

As bad as Mrs Rhymer's, only of another
kind," I answered ; " but you are mistaken if you
think that Stella cares for him, though I confess
her apparent encouragement of him is a mystery
which I have in vain endeavoured to solve. But
I am sure of this, if Mrs Rhymer went away, her
whole manner to you would change. It would
not advance matters much if you went away with
her, even if you could tear yourself from Stella.
What I want to see is your emancipation from
the whole connection. I can give you the best
idea of your position by Mr Muckle's own description
of it, — 'with Mrs Rhymer for an ally
and the company for a trap, or Mrs Rhymer fora
trap and the company for an ally — it does not
much matter which way you put it — I do not
fear Lord Sark as a rival ; ' that was his way of
expressing it, and I think it is one which deserves
your serious consideration."

Sark bit his lip and tapped the floor with his

foot. 'believe me," I added, seeing that I was
making an impression, "you are in as much
danger materially as you are morally, and it is
for your own sake as well as for ours that I
want the atmosphere purified. Withdraw from
the whole of this financial combination. I am
sure that Stella cares for you; and though I don't
want you to marry her for her fortune, the fact
that she has one will relieve you from all further
pecuniary anxieties."

Dear Altera," he said, " I feel the soundness
of your advice ; the unfortunate thing is that it
is impossible for me to follow it. I am irrevocably
committed to the financial scheme, to which
I am both legally and honourably pledged. It
is useless for me to attempt to drive Mrs Rhymer
away; and if I went away myself, she would
simply have gained her point and follow me, and
I should lose Stella, and fall back into the old
bondage. There is a confession of weakness, but
it is the truth. Believe me," he said, taking
my hand, " I am none the less deeply grateful
to you and ashamed of myself."

I had barely time to release my hand when
the door opened and Mrs Rhymer herself entered
the room.

CHAPTEK XL

A PASSAGE OF ARMS.

Sark neither coloured nor started as Mrs Rhymer,
with a rapid and penetrating glance at both of us,
advanced to greet me. I was conscious of doing
both, and yet she read an expression of guilt on
his honest countenance, while I am sure mine
expressed nothing but indignation at her unceremonious
entry. We must have presented an
interesting study to an experienced physiognomist.
I remember, although the moment was
a critical one, trying to think by what feature
the confusion which his face exhibited was chiefly
betrayed. He did not lower his eyes as they
met hers, the lines of the mouth did not move
perceptibly as he rose slowly to follow up my
greeting with his own, and yet there was a distinct
admission in his face of a consciousness that

VOL. I. M

lie was caught. I ask the inquiring mind, Where
was it ? By what mysterious agency does the
countenance mirror the emotions, when the will
holds every feature in an apparently normal
calm ? And how is it that the mirror is often a
distorted one, and conveys an erroneous impression
? Now I am certain it did in my own case.
I was conscious of having done nothing to be
ashamed of. I was angry, but not dismayed, at
Mrs Rhymer's sudden entrance, and yet I am sure
that that lady utterly mistook the signs of my
emotion, and attributed them to a sentiment
which she supposed to be common to both Sark
and myself. In fact, she was convinced that she
had interrupted us at a moment when, as she
imagined, some tender passages were being interchanged
; and a certain triumphant and vindictive
flash of her eye, as she squeezed my hand effusively,
and then turned with easy and affectionate
intimacy to her '' dear Sark," warned me that the
passages now in prospect were likely to prove
anything but tender.

I did not let the servant announce me, my
dear Altera," she said, knowing how it jarred
upon me to be addressed by her by my Christian
name, " because I knew your mother was out,

and heard you tell Sark yesterday that you were
to be at home. That unpunctual Muckle came
half an hour before his time because he had some
meeting to attend, and so I was released sooner
than I expected. I hope I have not indiscreetly
interrupted an interesting tete-a-tete^

Not at all," I calmly replied. " Your arrival
would have been inconvenient a few moments
ago ; as it is, I have said everything to Lord Sark
that I wished." And seeing that she was vainly
attempting to suppress a nervous anxiety on the
subject, I maliciously added — "He is quite satisfied,
— are you not ? " and I turned to him with a
glance which I purposely intended should mislead
my adversary, so full was it of a tender
meaning.

The embarrassment into which it threw poor
Sark, who was so taken aback that he could only
stammer that he " never could be sufficiently
grateful to me," evidently confirmed her worst
suspicions. She lost her presence of mind under
the pressure of her excitement, and said sharply,
"Do you mean to tell me that you are engaged
? "

I looked at her with an indignant glance of
outraged propriety, and said, " I am not aware,

Mrs Rhymer, of any circumstance which gives you
the right to ask that question."

She apparently considered that the crisis warranted
her in disregarding all social conventionality,
or perhaps she felt her social position so
strong that she could dare anything without
danger from me, for she replied with the most
unblushing effrontery, '' Lord Sark is in a position
to explain to you what the circumstance is
which at all events gives me the right to ask him
that question."

I think," said Sark, overwhelmed with confusion,
^' that the subject is one which we had
better not discuss further just now."

On the contrary," she replied, " there could
not be a more convenient or appropriate occasion.
If Miss Peto intends to marry you, it is only
right that she should be informed of the precise
relations we occupy towards each other."

I confess I was staggered by the shamelessness
of this remark. I had seen so little of society,
that I did not know that such things could be
possible. I rose quietly and touched the bell.
Mrs Rhymer," I said, " if you do not leave the
room instantly, I will have you turned out by
the servants."

Sark sprang to his feet.

I implore you, Altera," lie said, " do not let
us have a scandal. I shall never forgive myself
for having been indirectly the cause of bringing
this annoyance upon you ; " and then turning to
Mrs Rhymer, he added, " You are labouring under
a complete misapprehension. I am not engaged
to be married to Miss Peto or to any one. Let us
go now. I am sure that a moment's calm reflection
will lead you to regret the hasty conclusion you
have arrived at, and the expression to which it
crave rise."

Miss Peto brought it upon herself," said Mrs
Rhymer, rising as the servant entered ; and bowing
with an air of outraged majesty, she left the
room, followed by Sark, who had just time to
press my hand and whisper, '' Once more forgive
me, and don't despise me utterly."

A quarter of an hour after this, and while I
was still brooding over the outrage to which I
had been subjected, mamma and the Baron came
home. I immediately told them what had occurred,
and said it was impossible for me ever
to meet Mrs Rhymer again.

My dear Altera," said mamma, " when you
come to know a little more of life, you will see

how ridiculous such scruples are. I look upon
Mrs Rhymer's intimacy with your cousin as quite
providential. I have been assiduously cultivating
her friendship, because it will ensure us access
into the very best society in London. Why,
half the smart people bombard her with invitations,
and the other half with requests to get
them for them."

But after what she has admitted to me, surely
we could render that impossible," I said.

In the first place, it would not be convenient
to listen to you. In the second place, if we could
expose her, which people in our position would
utterly fail to do, you would, to use a vulgar
expression, be simply cutting off your nose to
spite your face. My dear, she may prove a most
valuable and useful acquaintance and chaperon.
Indeed I have already made arrangements for her
to take you to a ball next Sunday week, to which
she is going with Lord Sark, to be given by
the celebrated author and play-writer. Monsieur
Hussein Arsaye, where you will see a little of
Parisian life in its most brilliant and characteristic
aspect. I am sure your American friends
would like to go, and they could scarcely do sounder
better auspices. I shall insist, Altera,

upon your not giving yourself airs of propriety
in these matters. As your mother, I am responsible
for your conduct, and I shall be quite satisfied
to place you under Mrs Rhymer's guidance.
So you will have the goodness to immediately
apologise for your rudeness. She may do us the
greatest possible injury if we offend her. The
idea of a chit like you flying in the face of a
recognised beauty like Mrs Rhymer, on the score
of morality, — the thing is monstrous. Is it not.
Baron ? " she added, appealing to her husband.

Ma foi, my little Ora, we must take things
as we find them," he said, turning to me ; " you
and I can't afford to run atilt at social follies.
We have been most fortunate in securing Lord
Sark and Mrs Rhymer as intimates, and no one
would thank us except a few crabbed old ladies
who want him for their daughters, for making a
scandal ; besides, dirt always sticks. You are the
only authority on the subject ; and a young lady
who makes her debut by attempting to expose a
beautiful and popular woman, because she is too
intimate with her own cousin, would certainly
not come out under happy auspices. No, Ora
mia, as your mother says, we must patch up this
little difference, and be all the better friends

for it. If you can win Sark from lier, no one
will be better pleased than I shall be, but you
have gone the wrong way to work, ma petites'

I don't want to win Sark from her for myself,
but for his own good," said I, indignantly ; and
I had much difficulty in preventing my feelings
from finding vent in a flood of tears. "And,"
I added, rising to leave the room, while my voice
trembled with excitement, " nothing shall induce
me even to speak to Mrs Rhymer again. You
need not, therefore, expect me to apologise to
her, much less to make my entry into London
society under her auspices."

Thinking the matter over in my own room, I
found that I had placed myself in a very difficult
position. I knew the Baron and mamma well
enough to feel certain that they would spare no
pains to conciliate Mrs Rhymer, and I knew that
lady well enough to be equally sure that she
would not lose the triumph of being conciliated,
and of coming to the house hardened in her insolence
by her success. My reserve would only
make me look ridiculous, and she would not spare
me. In my dilemma, I determined to go down
and take counsel of my friends in the ent7'esol ;
and thither I accordingly repaired, just in time

to find the two giiis alone with Hannah at their
afternoon tea.

"Well, that beats all," said Hannah, when I
had concluded my story without interruption.
I felt all through my bones that Rhymer was
a hard case the first time I sot eyes on her, but
I didn't jest know it went that length : but to
think of your mama a-knowin' it all, and wanting
to git along in what she calls ' society ' by
sacrificing your innocence to her vice, — why,
it's enough to make a body's hair stand on
end."

The question now is," I said, " what am I todo
? How am I to escape the humiliation of her
presence and of her triumph ? And how, in the
face of a command from my parents to the contrary,
am I to preserve my own self-respect ? I
heard Mr MacAlpine and Mr Hetherington talking:
the other nioiit about the ball she wishes
me to go to, and nothing will induce me to go,
particularly under the escort of Sark and Mrs
Rhymer."

"You must jest run away from 'em, my
dearie," said Hannah, with the greatest coolness
imaginable. " There is times when your booty
to your God is greater than your booty to your

parents, 'specially when one of 'em is only a
Italian, and a step-father at that."

This proposition was so unexpected that it
quite took my breath away, but it was received
by the two girls with rapturous approbation.

Why, that's splendid, you dear old Hannah ;
she shall run away to us. We'll all ' vamose the
camp,' as the boys say out West, in the night,
and not leave a sign for them to follow us by,"
said Stella, clapping her hands.

Yes," said Mattie, " we'll just leave a line
behind to say that we are very sorry, but we had
to do it because we found our Californian morals
were getting contaminated by the best society
we tumbled into on our arrival in the Old World,
and we took the liberty of carrying off a little
innocent that hadn't been corrupted, with us."

Now, then, the question is," said Stella, with
a promptitude worthy of a great general, " to
decide upon the plan of operations. When do
you think Mrs Rhymer will be sufficiently reconciled
to make an appearance again ? "

Oh, certainly not before to - morrow afternoon,"
I said.

Well, then, we'll both go up-stairs. You go
into your own room, which you may be supposed

never to have left. I will go and see the Baroness,
and tell lier we are going to spend three
or four days visiting Versailles and St Germains,
and I'll ask her to let you come with us. This
she is likely to do, as she will imagine it will
give you time to get over your anger with Mrs
Rhymer, and give her time to conciliate that lady.
Then I will ask to see you, and you will comedown,
innocent of the whole affair, and accept
my invitation ; then you'll pack up enough
things to last — not for a week, but for a year if
necessary; besides, we can always buy more.
We will make all the preparations to-night, and
all start for Versailles the first thing in the
morning, and then decide where to fly to next."

And Bob ? " said Mattie ; "do you suppose I
can tear myself away from my Zend-Avesta in
this unpremeditated manner ? No ; Bob must be
in the secret. We must consult Bob at once.
I will telegraph for him to come here instantly."

'but won't Keith Hetherington suspect?" I
remarked. " Don't you think we had better consult
him too ? "

"We'll telegraph for both," said Stella, "to
come here and dine ; and you can dine too,
Altera. I will ask you up-stairs. Now there

is no time to be lost; but first," said the girl,
stopping in ber enthusiasm, and turning to
Hannah, " tell us if you approve ; we'll none of
us move a step without your approval."

If I didn't approve, I'd a said so," remarked
the old lady. " When it comes to running away
in such a good cause as this, you'll find old
Hannah making tracks with the youngest of ye ;
but I ain't a-going to let that Rhymer drop — do
you know it ? If I don't make her run too before
I've done with her, I ain't one of the New
Hampshire Coffins. She has got to be put down,
and she's got to stay put. It's old Hannah says
so, and you'd better believe it."

The first part of the programme was carried
out without a hitch. And the same evening,
while Mattie was initiating Bob into his duties,
I was having a serious conversation with Keith
Hetherington on the subject.

In spite of the intimacy which had sprung
up between us during the past month, I had not
been able to assume the cousinly privilege which
my American friends had so rapidly availed
themselves of, of calling Mr Hetherington by
his Christian name ; but the more I saw of him,
the more I was struck by the breadth and originality

of Ms views upon the subjects in which I
was especially interested, but in regard to which,
upon ordinary occasions, he manifested the utmost
silence and reserve, feeling either that he was
liable to be misunderstood, or that they were of
too serious a character to be treated lightly. Indeed
he often seemed to have two different lives
an outer and an inner one ; one which he lived
for his friends and for society, and one which he
lived for himself. No one dio judged of him by
his ordinary conversation could form an accurate
estimate of the earnestness of his character, and
of the wide range of those faculties with which
he was endowed, and which, aided by extensive
research, travel, keen powers of observation, and
study of his fellow-men and the phenomena of nature,
had enabled him to arrive at certain results
which he was reluctant to impart to others, because,
while convinced of their truth, he had not
arrived at the point where they could be verified
by evidence which should be satisfactory to the
world at large. Hence he guarded them jealously
under the mask of a very commonplace exterior.
Notwithstanding this, there was an indescribable
something about him which had from the first
piqued my curiosity, and the interest which I

manifested in a certain class of inquiry had
finally induced him, so far as I was concerned, ina
great measure to break through his reserve.
It was the sympathy of thought and feeling
which had thus become engendered, that seemed
to make it impossible for me to take so serious a
step as the one I was now contemplating, without
first consulting him, and yet it involved an
explanation that could not fail to be more or less
embarrassing. I was aware that the somewhat
bold and unusual measure I had resorted to in
arranging a private interview with Sark, in order
to detach him from Mrs Rhymer, was liable to
misconstruction, and that the position in which
I was now placed by that lady implied that I
was a rival with her in my cousin's affections ;
while the plan of flying from her and from my
parents and natural guardians was one which,
from a conventional point of view, it would be
very difficult, if not impossible, to justify ; moreover,
to take into my confidence a young unmarried
man, whom I had not known above a
month, even though he was twelve or fourteen
years older than myself, and make a sort of
father-confessor of him, which I felt strongly
impelled to do, was to place us in an entirely

new position relatively to each other, and to
establish an intimacy on such peculiar grounds,
as nothing; but the utmost confidence in the
justness of his appreciation of my motives and
the rectitude of his character would have warranted.
In spite of the affectionate sympathy of
my impulsive American friends, I felt forlorn
and desolate. I wanted a matured masculine
judgment to lean upon in this emergency, and
whom had I to turn to but him ? Still it was
not Tvdthout a sense of the greatest embarrassment
and hesitation that I described to him my
interview with Sark, the motives by which it
was prompted, its interruption by Mrs Rhymer,
and the outrage to which I had been subjected
by her, and my mother s intentions with regard
to her chaperonage of me in London ; and without
telling him the plan I had decided upon, I
asked him what course he would advise me to
pursue under the circumstances. excuse me,
Mr Hetherington," I said in conclusion, 'for
taking you so deeply into my confidence, and
placing you in a position of so much responsibility,
what I really need is not social or worldly
but spiritual advice. I suppose a clergyman
would be considered the right person to go to, but

I don't know one ; besides, I heard Mrs Rhymer,
who is a very regular attendant at church, say
the other day that she found them such a comfort.
She said there was one she always went
to in her difficulties. They differ, it seems tome,
just as much as other men, and they might
think themselves bound by some text like ' honour
thy father and thy mother,' which I am
sure would not apply in a case like this."

"You must have been in difficulties before,"
he replied, *' though not so serious ; what do you
generally do ? "

Oh, I always try and think what papa, who,
when he gave me my name, gave me the motto
of my life, is at this moment wishing me to do
under the circumstances. I try and imagine the
highest conception of duty, and earnestly seek
for his influence to descend and point it out tome
; and indeed a good influence does seem to
descend, and I seem to feel it encompassing me,
but unfortunately it does not appear to be
governed by any social considerations, and sometimes
suggests the most impossible courses of
action from the worldly point of view. That is
one reason why I have shrunk from going to
clergymen — they appear to try and adapt their

religion to the social requirements of the conditions
by which they are surrounded, instead of
going for the right and highest thing route que
route. It is all a matter of compromise, and I
hate compromise where it involves the slightest
sacrifice of the highest ideal conception of duty."

"But there may be one high ideal conception
of duty to God and to humanity, and another to
one's self, or to one's country, or family, or society;
it all depends whom the duty is towards,
whether it is likely to involve compromise or
not. Now the ideal conception of duty towards
one's country is a very high one."

Yes ; but surely not so high as towards
humanity at large," I replied.

"That was just the reason I refused a seat
in Parliament when it was offered to me," he
answered, with a smile. " I found that the
popular conception of one's duty to one's country
involved a compromise which I could not make
with that which I felt I owed to humanity. If
you feel the same with regard to your family, or
to society, you have only one course to pursue."

But I am not a Romanist, and I can't become
a nun. I can't leave them, for I have nowhere
to go to."

VOL. I. N

"And if you could, you would not advance
matters. You would do no good to the world
by leaving it. This is the great mistake of
ascetics — who are, in fact, more occupied with
their own spiritual welfare than with that of
their fellow-men — not perceiving the fatal egotism
that underlies all efforts after personal
salvation."

"But I am not thinking about my personal
salvation now," I said, " I am thinking simply of
somehow fulfilling the conception of my duty to
God, which you tell me admits of no compromise
with the conventional idea of my duty to
my family."

One greater than I said that," Mr Gatherings
interrupted, in a tone of deep solemnity,
when he described how His cross should be
borne."

But how is a girl under age like me to leave
father and mother and house ? " said I, knowing
to what he alluded. " In the Christian society
in which we live I should be answerable to the
law," I added bitterly, " and if I persisted in my
rebellion, should be put into Chancery or some
such thing, because I was trying to fulfil a divine
command."

A long pause ensued, during which Mr Wethers
put his elbows on the table, and his face
between his hands, remaining in that attitude
for some moments.

*' My child," he said at last, " there is a way
which sets every pulse in my being throbbing
when I think of it — for it is one which, if you
consented to it, would bring inexpressible happiness
and consolation to a spirit that has suffered
for many years the misery of utter isolation and
desolation — but it is not ojDcn to us yet. I
cannot ask you to become my wife merely because
it would make my life a joy, and enable
you to escape from a dilemma. Not because
I fear the law, or would shrink from carrying
you away from its clutches, but because in this
matter we must be a law unto ourselves, and
because marriage is too sacred a state to be
entered upon either from motives of natural
selfishness or expediency. Not only is it true
in a deeper sense than the world woes of that
marriages are made in heaven, but the time
when they should be consummated here is registered
there, and for us that time may never
come. I know of only one person who can assist
us in this difficulty, and she is not far off," he

said, glancing from the corner in which we were
sitting to Hannah, who was engaged at the other
end of the room in the unusual task for her of
writing a letter.

Oh," I said, clasping my hands, not a little
relieved from the emotion into which this singular
speech had thrown me, " I am so glad you
have arrived at that conclusion at last ! I only
felt that this conversation was necessary in order
to prepare you for what I have arranged with
Hannah, only I somehow felt I wanted your
sanction to it." And then I told him our plans,
and as I saw that Hannah was by this time
directing the envelope, I called her. She came
to us with the letter in her hand ; as she laid it
upon the table my eye fell upon the address.

Why, Hannah," I said, thunderstruck, for
I could scarcely believe my eyes, "who have you
been writing to ? "

Mr Rhymer," she replied calmly.

CHAPTER XII.

FLIGHT AND PURSUIT.

Ox the following morning the three girls and
Hannah, attended by Hetherington and Alderney
as escort, started for Versailles, and the same
afternoon the Baroness called on Mrs Rhymer, to
pacify the outraged sensibilities of that lady.
She found Lord Sark with her*" which rendered
the explanation somewhat embarrassing.

You can't think, my dear Mrs Rhymer," she
said, " how distressed I was on hearing from altera
of her foolish conduct yesterday. I could
not lose a moment in coming to ask you to forgive
her for her presumption. I can't think
where the child has picked up all her ridiculous
ideas. I hope, dear Lord Sark, you will make
allowances for what must have seemed to you
most maidenly and indelicate behaviour on

her part, and that it will not affect our pleasant
relations together. I have sent the child away
with her American friends to spend a few days
at Versailles and St Germains, and by the time
she comes back I shall take care to put matters
on such a footing, that any recurrence of such
conduct shall be impossible."

Lord Sark was about to speak, but Mrs Rhymer
was too well aware of the danger of allowing any
deprecatory utterances on his part to give him
time. At the same time, she perceived that her
only chance of keeping him quiet was to adopt
an attitude very different from that which she
would probably have assumed had she been alone
with the Baroness, and in a position to ride her
high horse unchecked. So to Sark's astonishment
she replied —

I am so sorry you have taken the trouble to
call, dear. I assure you the apologies, if there
are any due, should rather come from Sark, who
has a way of talking to girls as if they were
women of the world, which is quite shocking.
Poor dear girl ! no wonder she was startled. At
her age I should have acted just in the same way.
I tried to disabuse her mind of some erroneous
impressions, which, I am afraid, she has received

now in reference to our old friendship," and she
extended her hand with the most engaging frankness
to Sark, who evidently took it with reluctance
; '' but you, dear Baroness, who know the
world so well, and know what sad injustices we
married women with wicked husbands have to
endure, understand how harmless such intimacies
are, and how desolate life would be if Plato had
not invented attachments of that sweet and sympathetic
character by which we are bound."

Mrs Rhymer was, in fact, not sorry for this
opportunity of letting the Baroness comprehend
that she had no intention of giving up Lord Sark
to Altera, and that, if she expected her help in
London, it must be upon those terms. So she
went on : "A month of the London season under
my chaperonage will be quite enough to enlighten
your daughter upon matters of which she is so
utterly ignorant, as she proved herself to be yesterday.
Her beauty, talent, and relationship to
Sark, added to my humble efforts and the Baron's
great financial position, will, I am sure, secure hera
brilliant social triumph."

Lord Sark's face was a study during this speech.
The notion of the girl, of whose pure and disinterested
nature he had received such striking;

evidence, being introduced into London society
by the woman whose reputation in it lie had
himself done more than any one to compromise,
and whose real character, now that she presented
it to him in the light of his innocent cousin's
chaperon, began to assume a totally new aspect,
filled him with a mingled sentiment of remorse
and dismay. In the degree in which the grandeur
and purity of Altera's mind had made their
influences felt, and disturbed the latent sensibilities
of his conscience, had he become more keenly
alive to the contrast which was presented to it
by the perverted nature of the woman to whose
fascinations he had fallen a victim. And the
more that this counter-influence seemed to invade
his organism, did he shrink from the chains which
he had hugged, and begin within himself to devise
schemes for releasing himself, and for thwarting
those plans of his late charmer, to which the
unworthy mother was listening with so much
complacency.

In pursuance of the resolution slowly forming
within him, he asked the Baroness if she knew
whether the party were to be found at that
moment at Versailles or St Germains; but Madame
Grandesella said, as she expected them back in

three or four days at the most, she had not made
any special inquiries as to their plans ; and Mrs
Rhymer suggested, with a suspicion of a sneer,
that the surest way to find them would be to goto
both. So his lordship, to that lady's surprise
and disgust, then and there took his leave, glad
to escape at a moment when the Baroness's presence
would make any opposition difficult.

By the time Lord Sark reached the Hotel des
Reservoirs at Versailles, it was already evening,
and his inquiries turning out fruitless, he resolved
to drive on to St Germains after a hasty meal ;
but to his surprise and consternation he could
find no trace of them there ; and as it had now become
too late to return to Paris, here he was forced
to remain until early the following morning, when
he went back to Paris to ask the co7icierge whether
the young ladies had left any address. Here
he heard that on the previous afternoon his cousin.
Bob Alderney, had appeared with Miss Coffin,
had made arrangements for giving up the apartments
altogether, had paid off the servants, had
packed up everything that belonged to them, and
the concierge had heard the direction given —
Gare du Chemin de fer du Nord ; " on which —
without making inquiries of the Grandesellas,

which, he felt would be useless, or giving them
the alarm, which he began to suspect would be
treacherous — he drove off to the apartment occupied
by Hetherington and Alderney. The former
had just gone out ; the latter had not been at
home since the previous evening, nor did the
servant know anything of his movements, beyond
the fact that he had taken a small portmanteau
with him. The chase upon which Sark had been
engaged for nearly twenty-four hours, now began
to pique his curiosity, and to interest him intensely,
— the more especially, as he strongly suspected
that before long he would be the pursued
as well as the pursuer. In the midst of his eagerness
and anxiety, he could not help smiling as
the tableau presented itself to his mind — of his
hunting Stella and Altera, of Mrs Rhymer hunting
him, and of the Grandesellas hunting the
whole party. He rushed to his hotel to pack a
few necessaries, wondering as he did so at the
positive delight that he felt at the opportunity
which seemed thus providentially offered of making
his escape ; at the utter absence of any sentiment
for Mrs Rhymer strong enough to hold him ;
at the constant presence of Stella in his mind,
fluttering like an ignis fatuus from his gaze, at the

very moment that existence seemed impossible
without her; at the deep brotherly affection which
had grown up within him for Altera — a sentiment
which, for force of purity, he had not given
his nature credit for entertaining. A whirl of
pleasurable emotions seemed to have taken possession
of him, as he rapidly sped up the Rue
Lafayette in his coupe. He pictured to himself
a retreat in which he would find the girls hidden
away, with Altera to plead for him, and no
Muckle to balk him in his suit ; and he conjured
up to himself the spectacle, with a satisfaction
which he felt was heartless, of Mrs Rhymer's fury
at finding that he had flown, no one knew whither
; he had left word with his servant that he
would probably not be away long, and to wait
till he returned, which would still further embarrass
his fair friend, who would probably make
the fruitless journey that he had done to Versailles
and St Germains.

The only unpleasant reflection which arose to
mar the full enjoyment of the situation, was the
uncertainty that attended his ovm. pursuit. The
inquiries which he made at the station, left no
doubt that he was on the right track. The previous
evening, three young ladies and an old one,

attended by a young Englishman, had gone by
the express to London ; and he found himself justin
time to take the tidal, so that he would be in
that city within a little more than twelve hours
after them — and he felt no doubt that Bob, not
expecting such a rapid pursuit, might be heard
of at his club. Such, in fact, proved the case.
There, a little before midnight, he came suddenly
upon his unsuspecting cousin, deeply immersed
in the study of Bradshaw.

Bob, though he endeavoured to assume an air
of unconscious innocence, was evidently not a
little disconcerted at Sark's appearance on the
scene.

Oh, lucky champion of distressed damsels,
are you hunting up the train which will most
speedily convey them to the retreat you have
selected for them ? " said his lordship, who vas so
delighted with his good fortune, that he vented
his sense of it in chaff. " To such a knight errant,
Bradshaw becomes an idol more sweet than the
lay of any troubadour, and Pall Mall a scene of
adventure which the Knight of La Marcia himself
might have envied. But you must take meas
your Sancho Panza, Bob. I am not going to be
denied in this matter. I will follow you as a devoted

squire to the ends of the earth in the defence
of the pure and the unprotected from the perils
of nineteenth-century civilisation. Only tell me
that our interests do not clash, and that the fair
Hannah is not the Dulcinea of your affections."

Before I answer a question," replied Bob,
sturdily, " answer me one — Where is the Rhymer
? "

At this moment, I should say she was walking
up and down her bedroom in Paris in a ,
half blind with fury, having just discovered
my flight, and that she will start by the
first train tomorrow morning to Versailles and
St Germains to look for me. I purposely put
her ofi" the scent in order to give us time. Is
this proof sufficient of my fidelity ? "

'' It is impossible for me to reveal their whereabouts
to you before I consult the girls themselves,"
said Bob. " Let us see," and he turned
to Bradshaw — "we ought to be ofi" by the 1.40
at latest ; meet me here tomorrow at 1 1 , and I
will tell you their decision. There is not another
man in the world, except Hetherington, whom I
would treat in this matter as I do you, old fellow;
but then I have my suspicions of your real motives,
and I am glad to have them. I know you

would not have acted as you have done, except
as a true friend.

"Why, certainly, yes, indeed," said Mattie
Terrill, enthusiastically, when Bob asked her on
the following morning whether the girls would
receive a visit from his cousin. " Just think of
our having already made a distinguished member
of the British peerage hunt us all the way from
Paris — and then you talk about your aristocracy
being quite too awfully aw-aw-kind of fellows.
Why, I guess no old trapper would have followed
our trail more cunningly. Bring him by all
means. In the multitude of counsellors there is
wisdom, and he has won the right of being admitted
into our confidence by the trouble he has
taken to prove it. Don't you think so ? " she said,
turning to Altera and Stella — neither of whom,
however, responded with the enthusiasm which
she expected, though it was evident that the
Earl's eagerness to find them was a source of
quiet gratification to both. As Hannah gave
her cordial adhesion, the matter was settled ;
and two hours afterwards Lord Sark was in the
house, in a quiet Tyburnian region, where Bob
had secured them lodgings.

The problem has been solved more rapidly
than we either of us expected when we last met,"
said Altera, meeting him cordially, while Stella
advanced with a slight hesitation, and a perceptible
heightening of colour, very foreign to her
usual reckless manner, or the frigid reserve with
which she had hitherto treated him. Lord Sark
felt a delightful and exhilarating complacency
stealing over him as he thus found himself accepted
without question as an ally against the
machinations of the Rhymer, which, considering
his relations with her, surprised himself. He
contrasted the agitating condition under which
his former passion had been stimulated, with
the more wholesome influences under which he
was now acting, and mentally resolved to preserve
the liberty that he had thus won, almost
in spite of himself. A veil seemed to be lifting
from an inner sanctuary, and revealing to him
unknown and unsuspected possibilities of emotion
; and as it did so, the contrast that this
presented to those of which he had been the victim,
struck him with its full force. He perceived
that in the passion which he had felt for the
siren who had enthralled him, love, as he now
began to understand its nature, had no place,

and in the reaction of the discovery he was conscious
of a sensation very nearly approaching to
disgust.

'' I guess, lord," said Hannah, whose eye he
caught while thus reflecting, " that you feel a
deal better inside of ye than when I saw you
last." Hannah always called Lord Sark simply
lord," having apparently a conscientious scruple
against, calling him " my lord." Nevertheless, in
his absence, she always talked of him as 'the
lord," — being a person who never wasted words
where abbreviation was ]possible, she had at an
early period dispensed with " Sark." Indeed she
had a nomenclature peculiar to herself, both for
her friends and her enemies. Muckle was always
spoken of by her as " that Muckle," with a world
of contempt thrown into that; and when she
addressed him to his face, which was as rarely
as possible, it was generally as " Mister ; " but
she had never forgiven his conduct about the
trunk, and often simply attracted his attention,
by saying " Hear ; " and once in offering him a
cup of tea at a moment when he was making
ostentatious love to Stella, to her intense indignation,
she called out to him, '' Hi, you there ! "
as if she was hailing a cab. Mrs Rhymer, for

some reason known only to herself, and which
she would never divulge, she never talked of except
as that "Valparaiso baggage," and addressed
her to her face as " Missus." She had never Been
heard to add the word Rhymer. Hetherington
had soon been adopted as Keith, and then as
Keithyy ; and Bob had so much advanced in her
affections since he had aided in their flight, that
he too was now promoted, to his great delight,
to being Boljjjy. There was this remarkable
elinor aljout Hannah, that she managed to convey
in the tones of her voice, and in the manner
of her address, a most exact reflection of her
inmost sentiments in regard to the person to
whom she was speaking at the moment ; and
Sark, who knew her peculiarities, felt an underlying
tenderness in the uncouth remark, which
described so exactly what he was feeling, that it
called out a burst of effusiveness, which astonished
the whole party. He could not give vent to the
emotions that were welling up within him by
embracing Stella, Altera, and Mattie, one after
the other, which would have been a natural outlet
to his feelings — so he jumped up, and crossing
to Hannah, took both her hands, as the only
reply he could make to her speech, and shook
VOL. I.

them violently. "Well, well, lordy," lie remarked,
gazing at him benignly, " you've got the
right stuff in you ; guess you ain't got far to go
before you'll come all right." And ever after
this Lord Sark was distinguished by the terminal
y, which was a certain evidence that he had
become a favourite.

We must not lose any time, if we are to tell
Sark our plans," said Bob.

He then explained that a retreat had been
secured by his efforts in a quiet, remote village,
to which he fondly anticipated that it would be
difficult to track them ; that Hetherington was
in the secret, and had been left in Paris to keep
them informed of the movements of the Grande-sells
and Mrs Rhymer ; and that the girls were
quite reconciled to the experience in store for
them of a quiet rural life in a secluded and beautiful
part of England. Lord Sark suggested that
this might not prove necessary, unless the girls
absolutely wished it, and that he could get them
all invited to Beaufort Castle, the seat of his
uncle by his mother's side, the Duke of Beau-court
; and he maintained that Altera would be
as safe from intrusion or molestation there as in
her undiscovered seclusion, as the Grandesellas

would be too much overawed by the grandeur of
lier retreat to attempt either to pursue her or to
extract her from it. Altera, however, shrank
from the possible notoriety which might thus
attach to her escapade, from the explanations
which might be involved, and from the sudden
plunge which it would necessitate into the midst
of an unknown world of aristocratic fashion. The
Californian girls had no such hesitation, and any
reluctance they manifested to accept Lord Sark's
offer arose solely from their disinclination to
abandon the refugee who had fled to them for
protection ; but this point was decided by Hannah,
who could under no circumstances be induced,
so far as she was concerned, to entertain
the Beaufort Castle project; and it was therefore
finally settled that they should all go to Copley-dale
together, under Bob's guidance, and wait
there in secrecy, until Sark had obtained the
invitation from his aunt for the two American
o;irls. As Hetherington had declared his intention
of coming over to England as soon as the
Grandesellas and Mrs Rhymer started in pursuit.
Bob suggested that he should be directed to
mount guard over Hannah and Altera — a function
he felt sure he would readily undertake —

and proposed himself to sue for an invitation to
Beaufort; and as lie threw out this hint, he
looked for approval from Mattie Terrill. But
that young lady seemed in a perverse mood, and
declared that she wanted to flirt with English
lords, and he would interfere with her and idle
away his time, which he had much better spend
in taking the steps necessary for his initiation
into his new career as a stockbroker — an announcement
which struck Lord Sark with astonishment
; but there was no time to ask any explanation
of it then, and an hour afterwards he
was standing on the platform at the Haddington
terminus, waving his adieux to two lovely creatures
kissing their hands to him out of the windows
of the carriage of a vanishing express train,
much to the envy of the surrounding spectators.
The same afternoon he wrote to the Duchess of
Beaufort, asking if she had room for him at the
Castle.

Chapter XIII.

THE DUCHESS OF BEAUCOURT.

*' Sapristi, ce n'est toujours pas le mari qu'oii
cherche comme ca," said the waiter of the Hotel
Henri Quatre at St Germains, after he handed
Mrs Rhymer into a fiacre, and was watching its
retreating; wheels — a sentiment suggested to his
experience in such matters by the ill-suppressed
evidences of anger and anxiety exhibited by that
lady, after she had drawn the coverts of Versailles
and St Germains in search of the missing party
in vain. She had time enough, however, to compose
her feelings and her role before she arrived
at the apartments of the Grandesellas with the
tidings. She affected to be intensely amused by
the whole performance. It was " so like dear
Sark to enter into the spirit of a joke concocted
by two wild Calif orphan girls, utterly ignorant of
all the convenances of civilised life, and capable

of outraging all rules of propriety. They had no
social reputation to lose ; but her real concern
was for dear Altera, whose innocence had been
betrayed, and whose character had been compromised,
poor girl, by her reckless friends : it was
very sad." And she composed her features to a
becoming condition of gravity and sympathy,
and turned appealingly to Muckle, who happened
to be present, and invited him to suggest what
course should be adopted in so unexpected an
emergency.

We had better find out from the concierge''
said that worthy, " when he expects them back
again : they may have changed their minds and
gone to Fontainebleau." And he left the room,
while the Baroness protested that Altera would
never dream of prolonging her absence beyond
the time originally specified. But Muckle came
back with the appalling intelligence that the
party in the entresol had paid ofi" their servants
and given up the apartment, and left a letter,
which was to be given to the Baroness at the
expiration of three days ; but '^ as monsieur had
made inquiries, he would give it to him at once."
And as it was addressed to the Baroness, Muckle
handed it to her, and she read as follows : —

Dear Baroness, — We find that we are altogether
too unsophisticated, without further preparation,
to stand the wear and tear of Parisian
existence under the conditions presented to us.
That native innocence which is so marked a characteristic
of the girlhood of the Pacific slope cannot
bear the moral strain. We feel we want touching
all over, and we have decided to go into
seclusion in England to touo;hen. We have taken
dear Altera with us, for she has as pure a nature
as if she had been born at Cedar Buttes, and we
cannot bear to see it spoiled. She tried hard,
dear girl, to write you a line for me to enclose in
this, but her feelings were too much for her. —
With kind regards to the Baron and Mr Muckle,
amicably your friend, Stella Walton.

Pes. — You will see ,from this that it will be
quite impossible for any of us to go with Lord
Sark and Mrs Rhymer to the ball on Sunday."

If the girlhood of the Pacific slope are half
as innocent as they are insolent," said the Baroness,
with a snort of indignation, " they must
lee truly exceptional in that respect. ' Amicably
your friend,' indeed 1 "

Sark had a most important meeting to attend
to-day. He has guaranteed the transfer of the
property of the company of which he was chairman,
and the final papers where to have been
signed. He is so far compromised, that if he
attempts to back out now, we can ruin him morally
and financially," said Muckle, who was filled
with rage at the prospect of losing the heiress to
the man whose rank he had intended to turn to
his own pecuniary and social advantage, while
there was a still further possibility of Altera
escaping from his clutches.

"Bah, caro mio!" said the Baron; "there is
nothing to make a fuss about. They are a pack
of children whom we can soon bring to their
senses. Fortunately the whole matter is arranged
so far as our French colleagues are concerned.
We have nothing for it but to follow the fugitives
to England, and change the base of our operations.
We shall soon find out where they are ; they are
too distinguished a party to be lost. Allons,
Lalla mia! Pack up ; we must be ofi" by to-night's
train. AVill you allow us to offer you our escort ? "
he added, turning to Mrs Rhymer.

That lady, who had assumed an air of great
indifference, at first refused, on the ground that

she hated these sudden moves, but allowed herself
to be finally persuaded by Muckle to join the
party ; and the same night they were all en route
for London.

The following day was not far advanced before
Sark received a missive from Mrs Rhymer, informing
him of her arrival in town, and requesting
him to call upon her immediately. " If anybody
calls, tell the servant to say I am out of town,
and leave orders that all letters are to be kept to
await my return ; and put up things enough fora
week as quickly as possible," said his lordship
to his valet, as he tossed the Rhymer's letter into
the fire, evidently with no intention of answering
it. He was, in fact, expected at Beaufort
Castle that afternoon. As the Duchess was a
woman of large sympathies, possessed a generous
nature, had been devotedly attached to her
nephew from his boyhood, and had been sincerely
pained by the infatuation which had for the last
few years taken possession of him, to the exclusion
of those public interests to which she had expected
him to devote his talents, she was only too delighted
to co-operate in any schemes that might
wean him back to the life she longed to see him
lead. She made rather a wry face when she

found he had substituted a Californian heiress
for the cosmopolitan adventuress, and plaintively
objected that he would have done better to look
among the countrywomen of his own class, instead
of running the risk of transferring his affections
from one American to another. However, she
consented to invite the two girls, and to chaperon
them herself — if, on inspection, she found they
were presentable ; if not, she stipulated beforehand
that Sark was somehow or other to get rid
of them in twenty-four hours. " It is amazing,"
she said, " the way in which society is being
taken by storm by our transatlantic cousins. It
is enough if they have pretty faces and fortunes,
and are Americans, to ensure them the entree into
houses from which Englishwomen, just as rich,
just as pretty, and far better born, are jealously
excluded."

If I were a middle-class Englishman, a railway
contractor, or a cable company promoter, ora
cotton - spinner, or a chap of that sort, you
know, who had made some money, and wanted
to get my wife and family into society, do you
know what I would do ? " said Lord Grandchild,
the Duke's eldest son. '' I should take my wife
and girls to America, and live there long enough

to enable me to become an American citizen, and
my girls to pick up New York manners, — they
are much better than those of our middle-class —
a sort of French chic about them, you know, with
a free-and-easy originality added, — and then I'd
send them over by themselves, without letting
them tell anybody who they were, except that
they were the daughters of a wealthy American,
who had millions of dollars, you know ; and then,
when they had both married fellows like Sark
here, I'd turn up myself, and he'd find to his
astonishment that he had a regular vulgar
Britisher for his father-in-law, and a mother-in-law
with a great red shawl, and big feet, and
no /?/s. What a sell it would be ! — and richly
he'd deserve it. How do you know," he added,
turning to Sark, " that this girl Stella Walton
is not the daughter of old Welton, our head-gardener,
who emigrated twenty years ago to
America and made a fortune there ? It only
needs the change of a letter."

*' Well, we ought to be grateful to a country
whose institutions give us a chance of meeting
upon equal terms with our gardeners' daughters,
when they have developed a refinement and
qualities of their own which make them desirable

additions to our glass society. It acts upon
my moral epidermis very much as effervescing
salts put into my bathing water do upon my
skin. I feel internally refreshed and invigorated."


Well, Sark," said the Duchess, laughing, " ita
pity you should monopolise the enjoyment of
these sensations, so I will take your American
friends on trust, and see what effect they produce
upon my other visitors — so that matter
is settled. Now tell me where I am to direct
to them."

"Oh, that does not matter," he said; "give
the letter to me and I will send it to them. But
perhaps I had better tell you the whole story —
only mind, Grandchamp, it is in the strictest
confidence, so don't go retailing it all over the
clubs." And Sark gave the Duchess an account
of the Grandesellas, and of his newly found
cousin Altera, which interested her so much
that her heart warmed to the friendless girl, and
she proposed to include her in the invitation.
The fact that Sark had already made this suggestion
to Altera, and that she had shrunk from
entering the world, even under the ducal auspices,
only raised Altera in the Duchess's good opinion.

and she made a mental resolution to befriend her
should opportunity offer.

In the middle of their conversation the post
arrived with a note from Bob Alderney, also
proposing a visit.

Why," asked the Duchess, " what can induce
the dear boy to tear himself from his beloved
oriental studies and his bosom friend in Paris,
to offer a visit here ? I am sure I shall only be
too delighted to see him. I ask him regularly
every season, and he as regularly refuses. He
writes from some place in Devonshire."

Perhaps he is after the other Calif orphan
girl," said Grandchamp, acutely.

I shouldn't wonder," said Sark, with a smile.
However, aunt, you'll grant his request, I hope,
and then you'll have an opportunity of judging
for yourself."

That evening the post carried two letters, both
addressed to Copleydale — one from the Duchess
to Bob Alderney, and the other from Sark to
Stella, enclosing an invitation for herself and
Mattie to Beaufort.

That will do capitally," said Sark to himself.
"Bob can escort them here, and I will wait to
receive them. , It is lucky that the Duchess is

going to have a houseful of people ; it will give
them some idea of life in an English country
house."

The Duchess of Beaufort was a good-natured
easy-going woman of the world, by no means
disposed to take a strait-laced view of its shortcomings,
and always ready to make allowances
for those irregularities which, to her mind,
gave a decided piquancy to society. She had
regretted Sark's devotion to the Rhymer, not so
much because it was wrong in itself, as because it
interfered with his worldly prospects. She had
been a beautiful and dashing woman in her
youth ; and more than once, had she been Mrs
Smith instead of a duchess, her social position
would have been seriously compromised by sundry
affaires de coeiir, for which, however, allowances
were made, partly because the Duke, who
was as popular among women as she was among
men, utterly ignored any consciousness of his
wife's flirtations, and the cordial understanding
which seemed to exist between them was never
disturbed by their intimacy with members of the
opposite sexes — and partly because people said
she dispensed her favours out of sheer amiability
and good-nature, and that it was rather under

the influence of a lavish generosity of character
than of any essentially improper tendencies that
she allowed enterprising admirers to compromise
her by their attentions. Besides, people made
allowances for a pardonable vanity in a woman
of such great personal attractions. It is doubtful,
however, whether they would have been so
lenient had she not been a duchess, with a
charming place in the country, one of the principal
attractions of which consisted in the fact
that she understood exactly how to select her
guests, which she divided into appropriate categories.
Thus she generally opened her autumn
parties with groups of distinguished politicians.
As the Duke had never taken an active part in
politics, and as both he and the Duchess were
people of wide sympathies. Cabinet ministers and
leading politicians of all shades met here on a sort
of neutral ground ; then, as talent was to be
encouraged, and clever men were more or less
lions, and agreeable additions to the aristocracy,
these gatherings were pleasurably flavoured with
artists, philosophers, authors, with a celebrated
traveller or distinguished foreigner thrown in.
Thus science, politics, art, and literature were
skilfully mingled ; and for people who were not

very dependent for their amusement on a brilliant
display of feminine wit and beauty, went off
successfully. For the wives of the statesmen and
politicians were generally elderly and more or
less dull, their daughters too correct in their
behaviour to be amusing, and the philosophers,
artists, and authors were generally either bachelors,
or, if they had wives, left them at home.
Then there were one or two parties of county
people, with perhaps a bishop, and sundry London
people the reverse of smart, who, for some
reason or other, had claims upon the ducal hospitality.
When these had all been disposed of, and
the time came for the shooting-parties, the fun
of the festivities might be said to begin. Then
came the turn of the beauties, more or less fast
and professional, and of the girls whose mammas
were too anxious to get them well married to
care whom they met, particularly when the 
was Beaufort Castle ; and of the smart
young men about town, some of whom were most
desirable eldest sons ; and of old roues who had
known the Duchess in her youth, and whom she
now invited out of sheer good-nature, because
she knew that it warmed up their battered old
hearts to be surrounded by a lot of pretty women,

whose flirtations they superintended in a fatherly
sort of way, wliicli carried with it its own privileges
; besides which, there was always an old
dowager or two of questionable notoriety and
great social distinction, whose early experiences
had not been alton-ether unmixed with those of

o

the old roues, and with whom, therefore, a certain
tenderness of relation still existed as they
reverted sentimentally to those episodes of years
gone by, and morally festooned their immortelles
over the sacred season of their youth.

It was to meet a houseful thus selected that
Sark despatched the invitation to the two girls at
Copleydale, with no little inward enjoyment of
the treat in store for them ; for he was too much
accustomed to such society to think it anything
but delightful, though he could not but own, ashe
looked through the list of guests furnished
him by his aunt, that it was just as well that
iVltiora was not to be of the party.

VOL. I.

CHAPTEK Xii.

BEAU COURT CASTLE.

Mrs Rhymer, unable to restrain her impatience,
when, after she had allowed a sufficient interval to
elapse, Sark did not make his appearance, drove
off herself to Grosvenor Square, to make personal
inquiries, and arrived there a few moments after
he had taken his departure ; but the servants
were too discreet to hazard any conjecture as to
the direction his lordship had taken. This uncertainty,
however, in the case of so prominent
a member of the aristocracy, could not last long,
when such experienced sleuth-hounds as Baron
Grandesella and Mr Muckle were on the scent ;
and on the following morning the latter arrived
at Mrs Rhymer's "bijou residence," with the intelligence
that his lordship was staying at Beau-court,
but that, although they were on the track
of Alderney, they had not yet been able to discover

this whereabouts or that of the girls. It
had been decided by the GrandeseHas that the
whole episode might be turned to valuable social
account, if a proper interest was excited in it,
which should not take the form of a scandal, but
rather of a mystery, in some way connected with
a tender attachment between Altera and her
cousin Sark ; and that, in fact, if dexterously
managed, it might be the means of acquiring for
the Baron and Baroness a not unenviable fashionable
notoriety. With a lovely and beautiful
heiress for a daughter, with an earl for her cousin
who was consoling himself by a visit to his
uncle the duke, during the romantic and mysterious
disappearance under the most uncompromising
circumstances of the cousin of his love —
the Italian adventurer and his wife were supplied
with aristocratic materials enough, if they were
only cleverly employed, to compensate for any
temporary inconvenience to which they had been
subjected by Altera's conduct ; and they rather
began to enjoy the complication to which it had
given rise than otherwise.

Mr Muckle and Mrs Rhymer, however, took
a very different view of matters, and put their
heads together, and plotted vengeance, and concocted

schemes of discovery, from which the
Baron and Baroness were excluded, in which interesting
occupation they were suddenly provided
with a valuable and most unexpected ally. This
was none other than Ronald Mac Alpine, who,
finding his occupation gone when the whole
party had vanished so mysteriously from Paris,
followed them to London, and now heard the
whole of the singular history from the lips of
Mr Muckle and Mrs Rhymer, upon which lady he
had made it a point to call immediately on his
arrival in town.

I came across in the same train with Heth-arlington,"
he said, " but I failed to extract any
of the facts as you give them. All he seemed
to know or was willing to tell was, that all our
23arty except ourselves had left Paris. I thought
it — er — most extremely singular of none of you
to say a word of your intentions beforehand. I
have no doubt Hetherington knows where Miss
Peto is, and has gone straight to her. You have
perceived, doubtless, how deeply his affections
are engaged in that quarter."

All we know at present is," said Mrs Rhymer,
"that Sark is at Beaufort, and that he knows
where the fugitives are hiding. The Grandesellas

are evidently satisfied to let matters take their
own course at present ; but both Mr Murlde and
I have reasons for wishing to bring this absurd
escapade to an end."

The best plan will be," said Eonald, " for me
to propose to go myself to Beaufort. The
Duchess invited me just before I went to Paris,
and I asked her to allow me to postpone my
visit. I shall easily be able to find out something
from Sark, — at any rate I can keep you
informed of his movements."

"I think," said Muckle, "that I am justified
in telling you under the circumstances, what of
course you will consider absolutely confidential
so far as the general public is concerned, that I
am engaged to be married to Miss Walton. Mrs
Rhymer, to idiom I communicated this fact,
ao-rees with me in thinking that Lord Sark ought
at once to be warned against indulging in hopes
which can only end in disappointment. Should
you go to Beaufort, you may have an opportunity
of saying something on the subject, but it
must be left to your own discretion to make a
judicious use of this information."

Muckle and Mrs Rhymer had indeed already
decided that, although the facts did not altogether

warrant this assertion, it was one which,
for the purpose of influencing Sark, it was quite
lawful to make ; and the former was not sorry to
impart it as a piece of intelligence to Mac Alpine,
whose own attentions to the heiress had of late
been inconveniently assiduous.

I am sure," said Mrs Rhymer, by way of
furnishing Eonald with another hint for his
guidance, " if Sark only knew how devotedly
attached his cousin Altera was to him, he would
not wound her feelings by flirting ostentatiously
with that vulgar Calif orphan."

You quite surprise me," said Eonald, who
thus saw his hopes vanishing in every direction.
Muckle engaged to be married to Miss Walton !
Pray accept — er — my congratulations," and he
bowed with a forced smile to that gentleman :
and Miss Peto attached to Lord Sark. Pray,
Mrs Rhymer, what authority have you for this
statement ? "

The authority of my own observation, which
is the best, and the admission of the girl's own
mother."

And," added Muckle, " her own acknowledgment
of the fact to me as one of her oldest
friends ; but this is, of course, again in confidence."

I think," remarked Mrs Rhymer, after MacAlpine
had taken his departure, " that if he uses
this information with which we have supplied
him, with tact and discretion, and if we supplement
it with a little private correspondence of
our own to the parties chiefly interested, we
ought to complicate matters sufficiently to prevent
any serious mischief arising out of the
present situation, which is too strained to last
very long."

Three days after, she received the following
letter from MacAlpine, dated Beaufort : —

Dear Mrs Rhymer, —-whom should I meet on
the platform of the station for Beaufort, but
Miss Terrill, Miss Walton, and Alderney, who
had accompanied them from their undiscovered
seclusion, while Sark was waiting to receive
them. They were somewhat disconcerted on
my making my appearance, and Lord Sark
muttered something about an unexpected pleasure,
as he had not observed my name in his
aunt's list of guests.

Miss Peto, with the elderly person named
Hannah, is, it appears, hiding in some remote
village, the name of which I have not yet been

able to discover ; but I have lost no time in letting
you know this much, as you will at once
perceive what a favourable opportunity is afforded
me for making use of the information with which
you and Muckle were so good as to furnish me. —
Yours sincerely, Eonald Mac Alpine."

Two days later the Beaufort post-bag contained
the following letter from Mattie Terrill to
her friends at Copleydale : —

"My darling old Hannah, — Stella wrote a
line to Altera to tell you of our safe arrival, and
how we met Mr Mac Alpine and Lord Sark at the
station, and how we were received at Beaufort
by four men with whitewashed heads, red plush
breeches and waistcoats, and silk stockings and
buff-coloured coats, with cords dangling over
their shoulders — and how a gentlemanlike personate
in evening* dress, who was called the
groom of the chambers, and we thought at first
was one of the family, and therefore a relative
perhaps of Altera, showed us to our bedrooms ;
but she had not time to tell you more to save
the mail, so I will go on. We had not seen
anybody then, because it was past seven, and

they were all dressing for dinner. Well, we
fixed ourselves fit to kill, you bet. We had not
been six weeks in Paris for nothing ; and Stella
insisted upon not keeping all my jewels to herself,
but making; me wear some. I don't think I ever
did. see anything handsomer than Stella looked
in that mother-of-pearl embroidery and pink
ostrich-feather dress, with the long brocade train
that we got at Worth's.

"Well, just as we were ready, and were
wondering what to do next, we heard a knock
at the door, and in came a handsome old lady
with a magnificent tiara of diamonds, and a
most benevolent eye and sweet smile and winning
manner, and shook us both warmly by the hand,
and told us she was the Duchess, and would
show us the way to the drawing-room ; and on
the stairs, quite accidentally of course, we met
Bob, and at the drawing-room door, also quite
accidentally, Lord Sark, so we made our entree
well protected. The Duchess said she thought,
as we were alone, we might feel a little timid
among so many strangers. I guess if she had
seen a little more of life she would not have
made that mistake. We found the room full of
people. Some of the ladies looked at us as if we

were wild beasts : I think they expected us to
draw revolvers and shoot freely. Others took no
notice of us ; but the men took a warm and
sympathetic interest in us, which only made the
women madder. Some of these Englishmen are
perfectly splendid, and I had just been introduced
to one of them when dinner was announced,
and Bob came and offered me his arm.
Luckily he has not got much rank, so he fell
quite naturally to me ; but Lord Sark had to take
in the old Countess of Broadmere — she is what
they call a dowager, because her husband is dead.
We should call her a widow. I counted twenty-six
at dinner, and Bob told me all their names
and something about each. There was the Marquis
and Marchioness of Swansdowne and their
two daughters, Lady Florence and Lady Blanche
Featherpoll : Ll tell you about them later.
And Lord and Lady Grandchamp, the Duke's
eldest son and his wife. And old Lord Crackle-hurst,
with deep lines all over his face, and an
eye-glass and a hooked nose. He kept staring at
Stella all dinner-time ; and Bob said he was very
popular with young women, and respected by
young men still, because he was celebrated as
having been the wickedest young man of his day.

And old Lady Broadmcre, who, Bob declared,
was wicked still ; in f\ict I had no idea Bob had
such a bitter tongue. And the Hon. Mrs Hase-leone,
who was separated from her husband ;
but the fault. Bob said, was all on his side, ' of
course.' And the Eussian Princess Chemiseoff,
Who chattered broken English with the most
charming vivacity, and was ever so bright, and
seemed quite young. Bob said her husband was
in Bokhara, a governor-general or something ;
and nobody knew exactly why she came and
lived so much in England, but that made people
all the more civil to her. And there was Mr and
Madame Lauriola. Bob said he was a great man
in the City, and she was the last new professional
beauty ; he was a naturalised foreigner, but nobody
knew anything definite as to his origin,
but she insisted upon being called Madame,
because it gave her a sort of prestige. They had
only risen above the social horizon two seasons
before, but now they went everywhere, because
Sir George Washington, the Duke's nephew and
Sark's brother-in-law, had taken her up, and
got the Duchess, who was too good-natured, and
this wife, who was too * timid,' to refuse, to take
her about ; and Lauriola had put Sir George

into no end of good City things, and lie had
made pots of money. And the Lauriolas had
given the best entertainments of the year last
season, and everybody had gone to them. And
she had become quite the rage, because she said
such impertinent things to the women, and allowed
the men to say such impertinent things to
her without taking offence. There was nothing
you couldn't say to her, said Bob, if you only
knew how to jut it. Her conversation was more
risque than that of any woman in London ; and
with that, and a pretty face and lots of money,
she was sure to get on. Altera will tell you
what risque means. I had to ask Bob. And
then there was Miss Gazewell, Lady Broadmere's
niece, who tries to get a husband by imitating
Madame Lauriola ; but Bob says she won't succeed,
because men don't like that sort of thing so
much in their own wives as in those of their
friends. Then there was Lord St Olave, who,
Bob says, is rather nice, and a great friend of
Sark's, and is in love with Lady Adela Washington,
Sark's sister, because her husband. Sir
George, insists that she is too proper, and does
not make herself sufficiently admired by the
men; so she allows St Olave to worship, because

lie is a safe man, with a certain sense of honour.
It seems she does not go in for flirtations, except
to please Sir George, who feels more at liberty
then. And there was the Hon. Frank Basino;-
hall, who is Mrs Haseleyne's 'man.' Bob said
that was what he was always called about town,
and that was all he knew about him. He did
not go in much for those kind of men himself.
Besides these, there was Colonel Lysper of the
Guards, who flirted with Madame Lauriola, in
order to curry favour with the City magnate, and
be put into good things ; and Mr MacAlpine ;
and last of all, the old Duke himself, who flirted
in the most paternal way with all indiscriminately,
and seems as much the essence of good-nature
as his wife does. There now, Hannah,
you won't be able to understand most of this,
because it is such a high state of civilisation ; and
if Altera can't explain it, you must ask Mr
Hetherington, and if he can't, or won't, you had
better not know it — it might hurt your dear
old morals. Luckily for Stella and me, ours
are cast-iron; but we tremble when we think
what the consequences might have been had we
brought you with us. We stayed a little longer
than, I believe, is usual after dinner, because the

Princess CliemiseofF and Madame Lauriola both
like to smoke their cigarettes over their coffee with
the men — and I expected to see Stella prove her
efficiency in the newly acquired art ; but when
she was offered one, she declined, saying that she
only smoked strong perdue in Manzanita-wood
pipes. There happened to be a pause when she
said it in the most quiet commonplace tones
imaginable. The ladies all looked at her with
silent horror, though, if it was true, I don't see
why perdue is so much more dreadful than
Turkish tobacco, or Manzanita wood than cigarette
paper. In fact nobody knew what either
one or the other was, so she had to invent a
description of perdue, which she does not know
anything about either, and Mr Lauriola undertook
to correct her, because he said he had been
a good deal in early life in New Orleans. So
she asked him, quite innocently, if he was any
relation to the Lauriola who keeps a tobacconist's
store in Carondelet Street. If a shell had burst
in the middle of the table, it could not have
produced a greater effect than this very natural
remark ; but Stella told me afterwards she
did it on purpose, to pay Madame Lauriola off
for some impertinent remarks she overheard her

make to Colonel Lysper about us in quite a loud
tone. She said as she was using her faculty of
invention about perdue, she thought she might
as well invent Lauriola the tobacconist. I am
sure neither of them will ever forgive her, but
I could see some of the gentlemen highly appreciated
the joke. Indeed old Lord Cracklehurst
gave a sort of approving Haw, haw ! — which
sounded like Hear, hear ! which, Bob says, is all
he has ever said in the House of Lords, — and
they all began to talk very loud, apparently in
the hope of forgetting as soon as possible that,
for all they knew, they might actually be sitting
at the same table with a man whose brother was
a tobacconist ; and in the middle of the noise the
ladies escaped, and Lady Broadmere came running
up to Stella, as soon as we got to the ,
and said, ' Tell me, dear, is it true that
Mr Lauriola's brother is a tobacconist ? ' And
Mrs Haseleyne came up to me and said, ' What
a clever, satirical, beautiful creature your friend
is I I assure you, I am quite afraid of her. She
kept Sir George Washington, who sat between
us, in fits of laughter all dinner - time, and
made herself so agreeable, I could not get a
word in. Are you Ijoth coming to London this

season ? She'll make quite a furore — and with
her fortune, too ! '

Lady Swansdowne and her daughters, Madame
Lauriola and Miss Grazewell, formed a sort of
coterie apart, and treated us with silent contempt;
and the Russian princess gazed at us with a sort
of amiable amazement, first whispering to the
Duchess, and then staring at us through her gold
eye-glasses, so that we should have no doubt who
she was talking about, and apparently wishing us
to understand that she was interested in us as
new specimens. But the only really nice woman
was the Duke's niece. Lady Adela Washington,
who came and talked to me, while Stella, after
answering Lady Broadmere's questions, was posting
herself upon social subjects from that experienced
dowager, so, as she told me afterwards,
she might know the ropes generally. When the
men came in there was a general shuffle, and a
little game of some sort going; on all round. I
could see that Madame Lauriola was quite mad
with her ' man,' Sir George Washington, because
Stella had fascinated him at dinner, and he
wanted to get back to her now, but Madame
would not let him ; and Mrs Haseleyne's man
was angry, because Colonel Lysper had monopolised

the only vacant chair near her, and prowled
about like a discontented wild cat ; and old Crack-leurs
began a sort of fossil flirtation in a loud
tone with Lady Broadmere ; and Sark and MacAlpine
both made a dead point at Stella, and
finally sat down, one on each side of her ; and
Miss Gazewell was furious because no one would
flirt with her ; and Lady Swansdowne was furious
because Lord Grandchamp was keeping the
young men away from her pretty daughter, Lady
Florence ; and she and Lady Grandchamp consoled
each other and gazed at him ; and Lord St
Olave went into a corner with Lady Adela Washington
; and Lauriola fastened himself on to the
Duke, because he was a duke, and talked politics
; and Bob came to me ; and the Eussian princess
seemed to have a great deal to say to the
Duchess, and kept watchful eyes upon everybody
through her eye-glasses. Then there was another
general shuffle, when we had some rather bad
music ; and Stella and I at last were asked if we
played or sang. You know what a voice she has,
and you know that I was considered Hartman's
best pupil at San Francisco. So when she sang
and I played, she exploded shell number two.
Madame Lauriola tried to go on talking, but her

VOL. I. Q

voice died away in the stillness of the general
hush of admiration ; and the dear girl surpassed
herself in those chest-notes of hers, so that there
was a burst of applause when she had finished
that carried dismay into many feminine bosoms.
And I overheard Lord Grandchamp say to Sark,
Why, my dear Sark, the Rhymer is not a patch
upon her,' or some such thing, which I suppose
is an Anglicism.

We went off to bed, consequently, in a blaze
of triumph, and found that breakfast next morning
was a sort of movable meal, which began
about ten, and went on for an hour and a half —
people coming down when they liked, and sitting
about at separate tables like a restaurant. The
candidly dressed men of the night before all seemed
to me suddenly transformed into teamsters ; they
wore enormous hob-nailed boots, and gaiters or
long stockings, and breeches or knickerbockers,
and coarse, rough shooting jackets and vests, and
ate large breakfasts, everybody going to the side-tables
and helping themselves. I don't know
where all the servants with the whitewashed
heads were, but they left us to ourselves — even
the Duke went and cut his own ham ; and then
they all started off to shoot, and left us to our!



•l>

\n !

^E^.

I overheard Lord Grandchild say to Sark, ' Wliy, my dear .Sark, llu- Clyiiier i., uui
patch upon here"— Voi I., Talk 240.

selves. Even Bob said he couldn't get off going.
I felt quite ashamed of his legs when I compared
them with some of the others, and he seemed
quite out of his element ; but he said the alternative
was to face thirteen women and MacAlpine,
whom he put in as one extra, and that
was more than he could stand, even though I was
one of them. So we were left to stew in our
own juice, and I thought I could not employ my
time better than in writing you these first impressions
of the British aristocracy, while they
are, no doubt, exchanging their first impressions
about me. — Lovingly, Mattie."

CHAPTEK XY.

THE EARL OF SARK AT BAY.

If Mattie could have gone into the smoking-room
with the gentlemen instead of going to bed
with her friend on the night before she wrote her
letter, she might have overheard a conversation
between Sark and MacAlpine in a quiet corner of
that midnight resort, which would have seriously
increased its bulk.

'' I am so glad to have a quiet moment with
you," said MacAlpine, "to ask if you can give
me any information about that most mysterious
er — I think our American friends would call
it — stampede, which you made with them and
Miss Peto from Paris."

I did not make any stampede with them,"
returned Sark, shortly ; " I came over from Paris
to London by myself."

Oh — er — then perhaps you can tell me why

they went off so extremely suddenly by themselves,
and where Miss Peto is now ? "

I am not aware that, even supposing I know,
I owe you any confidence on the subject," Sark
answered still more brusquely.

I assure you I am the last person to interfere
in matters which don't concern me, or to allow
any mere curiosity to influence me ; but this is
a subject in which I have some sort of indirect
interest. I don't mind telling you now that not
long since I proposed to Miss Peto, and had some
reason to believe that any mere prejudice she
might entertain in regard to certain — er — philosophical
opinions which I hold, might be overcome,
when I found a most unexpected — er —
obstacle in Paris, and this I have good reason for
saying is none other than yourself."

"Myself!" ejaculated Lord Sark, amazed.

*' So Muckle has assured me on a confidential
occasion, the details of which it is not necessary
to mention, Miss Peto seems to have given him
to understand that she had placed her affections
irrevocably upon your lordship. You know
Muckle has known her from her childhood."

Impossible !" said Sark. " I have equally
good reason for knowing the contrary."

You will pardon me for saying that you have
been misled. I can quite imagine that Miss
Peto carefully concealed from you the nature of
her feelings ; indeed she has good reason for
doing so, and I don't see how, considering your
undisguised admiration for Miss Walton, and
your no less notorious — er — pardon me — intimacy
with Mrs Rhymer, she could do otherwise ;
but you may depend upon it, the facts are as
she stated them to Muckle. It may render
you less sceptical, if I add that he was at the
time informing her of his engagement to Miss
Walton."

"You mean render me more sceptical!" exclaimed
Sark, still more overcome with astonishment.
''Do you mean to tell me that Miss
Walton has engaged herself to Muckle?"

I think you will find that to be the case ;
but I don't think, from what he said, that she
wishes it known until she has enjoyed a little
more unmarried freedom in England. These sort
of — er — provisional arrangements are an American
custom, you know."

'' I don't know anything about American
customs," said Sark, who now began to feel as
thoroughly uncomfortable at the idea of Altera,

on his account, having become the victim of an
unrequited attachment, as of the heiress being
engaged to Muckle.

Well, now that you know the facts of the
case, I hope you consider that I was justified
in making the inquiries I did about Miss Peto.
I was actuated merely by — er — a sentiment of
interest towards her ; and I know no man who
can extract her from the — er — false position in
which she has placed herself so well as yourself."

Sark threw away the stump of his cigar with
an indignant jerk, took up his bedroom candle,
and with an abrupt " good-night," turned on his
heel, without vouchsafing any reply to this piece
of advice. The result of his deliberations was a
conversation with Stella, when the ladies came
out in a train of carriages to lunch with the
gentlemen at a shooting cottage, and inspect
the result of the morning's sport. It was no
easy work to disentangle that young lady from
a group of admirers; but he was ably seconded
by Eonald, who had silently watched the effect
of the dose he had administered on the previous
evening, and drew her off to where some boulders
of rock afforded a seat and a shelter.

Stella's manner to Lord Sark had changed a

good deal since tie had proved his devotion by
following her from Paris, and getting her invited
to Beaufort, but was still cold and distant. She
seemed to him now especially unapproachable and
on her guard.

Miss Walton," he said, " I have forborne from
troubling you with an admiration which seems
to annoy you, as my only desire, while you are
staying here, is that you should thoroughly
enjoy yourself; but I have heard something in
regard to which, as it affects the happiness of
another in whom we are both interested, I cannot
keep silence. You know my cousin Altera so
well, that I am sure you will answer my question,
though I feel it is an extremely embarrassing
one to put."

Gladly and truly, if I can," said Stella, much
relieved to find that it had no reference to herself.

Did my cousin, Altera, ever give you reason
to suppose that she cared for me ? "

Now Stella, as we have seen, had convinced
herself, by many signs known to sensitive young
ladies, too generous to be jealous, but not the
less alive to a certain kind of suspicion where
their affections are concerned, that Altera was
in love with her cousin, and had only concealed

it because lie had perceived that Sark had only
slipped from the thraldom of the Rhymer, whom
she despised, to succumb to the fascinations of
her friend ; and she partly attributed the desire
Altera had shown, — first, to break the tie which
existed between her cousin and Mrs Rhymer;
and secondly, to escape herself from the influence
of that woman, — to this cause. If she had any
further doubt upon the subject, it was removed
by the positive assurances of Muckle, which he
had not failed to communicate to her after the
conversation in which he imagined that she had
admitted it; and these had been supplemented by
many slight innuendoes on the part of the Baroness.
She therefore hesitated and flushed when
Sark put his question so abruptly, in a manner
which left no doubt in his mind that his worst
suspicions were confirmed, and which almost
rendered unnecessary her reply.

She has never mentioned the subject to me,"
she said ; " but I confess that her studious avoidance
of it, and what I have observed and heard
from her mother, has led me to believe that such
was the case."

And now, may I ask you another question,
Miss Walton ? "

I am not so sure about this one," she replied
with instinctive apprehension. ^'You must be
careful."

But it is closely connected with the last —
indeed its answer will determine my course of
conduct with regard to Altera."

Go on then," she replied shortly.

"Are you engaged to be married to Mr
Muckle?"

It was a supreme moment for the penniless
Californian girl. She had only to tell the truth,
and say No, to secure a countess's coronet ; for
she knew that Sark only asked the question to
clear the way for that other on which her own
future happiness depended, and she felt that if
she admitted she had listened to Muckle, she
would lose his good opinion, and that he would be
drawn to Altera by her love for him. But what
made it hardest was, not that she would have to
give up the coronet, for which, to do her justice,
she cared very little — but the man, for whom she
had learnt to care a great deal ; and he looked
so handsome and so pleading at that moment,
lying at her feet as she sat on the rock, that her
heart seemed to go out to him, and to quiver
with the effort of making her decision, without

allowing the momentary doubt and hesitation
to become apparent in her features. Her lips,
nevertheless, trembled slightly as she replied — ■

Mr Muckle and I have some business matters
to arrange, and one of them has reference to a
matrimonial contract, in regard to the details of
which I am not at liberty to enter. I must ask
you to be satisfied with this answer, and not to
press me further."

A provisional contract, such as I understand
is made sometimes across the Atlantic ? " said
Sark, bitterly,^for the notion of her having consented
to stand in any such relation to Muckle
was more than he could bear.

A provisional contract," she repeated coldly,
as she rose and walked off to join a group in
the distance, leaving Sark chewing the cud of
his disappointment, and his toothpick.

A letter which Mrs Rhymer received the day
following this episode from MacAlpine, contained
a very accurate report of his conversation with
Sark, and of the conclusions at which he had
arrived in regard to the effect that it had produced
; and he further alluded incidentally to
the success which had been achieved by the
American girls, and the jealousy which had been

excited by them in the breast especially of
Madame Lauriola. Now it so happened that
this passage Mrs Rhymer read to the Baroness
Grandesella, and that the Grandesellas and Laus
had been on tolerably intimate terms before
the latter had attained the summit of that
social ambition towards which the former were
still laboriously toiling ; for they had been in
many contracts together, had jointly promoted
companies, and had been copartners of concessions.
In fact, at this moment Lauriola was
not altogether uninterested in the amalgamation
of the Universal Scintillator with the Dark Continent
Illumination Company, which was taking
place under the auspices of Grrandesella and
Muckle, ostensibly for the pecuniary benefit of
Sark. When, therefore, the respectable firm
who controlled the destinies of Altera, discovered
that the Lauriolas were at Beaufort, after
smothering the first pangs of envy, they determined
to turn this fortunate circumstance to
account according to their several instincts.
Madame Grandesella decided to write to her
dear Madame Lauriola, giving her a detailed
history of the flight of Altera with the young
ladies who were now guests at Beaufort, and

of the concealment of lier daughter under their
auspices, and of the part Mrs Rhymer had played
in the whole transaction, which, as Madame
Lauriola and the Rhymer were bitter enemies
and social rivals, was a weapon in the hand of
the former that she would not be slow to avail
herself of. And Grandesella wrote to Lauriola,
telling him he had good reason to think that
Sark was likely to try and back out of the Electric
Scintillating Companies' amalgamation arrangement,
and to extricate himself from his
pecuniary difficulties by marrying the Californian
heiress, which should, at all hazards, be
prevented. The consequence was, that the whole
fashionable world was soon ringing with varied
versions of the extraordinary event in high life,
the interest of which centred at Beaufort, and
which propelled the Grandesellas into that fashionable
notoriety they courted, at a single bound.
Mrs Haseleyne, who was one of the fashionable
contributors to a social weekly of those paragraphs
that form the chronique scaiidaleuse of
the aristocracy and that delight the middle class,
wrote as follows : —

"The Duke and Duchess of Beaufort are
entertaining a distinguished party at Beaufort

Castle, including * the Marquis and Marchioness
of Swansdowne, and the Ladies Feathers, the
Countess of Broadmere, and Miss Gazewell, the
Earl of Cracklehurst, the Earl of Sark, Lord St
Olave, the Princess ChemiseofF,' " and so on with
the whole list, ending with Colonel Lysper ; and
then, in another paragraph : —

Great interest is attached to the celebrated
Californian heiress and her friend, who are staying
at the Castle, not merely on account of the
extreme beauty and fabulous wealth of the former,
which will render her one of the most prominent
debutantes of the next London season, but inconsequence
of the share she has taken in an
event which cannot fail to signalise her advent
into the world of fashion. A week has scarcely
elapsed since the lovely, accomplished Miss Peto,
a cousin of the Earl of Sark and step-daughter
of the eminent financier. Baron de Grandesella,
fled from her home in Paris with Miss Walton
and Miss Terrill, escorted, it is said, by Mr Robert
Alderney and an American duenna, with whom
she is still in some place of concealment. It is
understood that, as Miss Walton and Miss Terrill
and Mr Alderney refuse to give any information
in regard to the whereabouts of Miss Peto, Baron

Grandesella, who is her legal guardian, contemplates
taking legal proceedings against them."

Then another : —

"It is whispered that the sudden disappearance
of Lord Sark's beautiful cousin is not altogether
unconnected with another luminary of
fashion, who burst upon us not long since from
the other side of the Atlantic, and whom to allude
to as the greatest social success of her first-season
is to name."

Then another : —

If our American visitors are going to bring
social storms with them, I really recommend the
New York Herald ' to supplement its weather
predictions with a social storm-register, thus : ' A
dangerous female combination has just left the
shores of the Eastern States. May be expected
off the west coast of Ireland about the 2 2d or
23d.'"

Then another : —

I should advise investors to beware of amalgamation
schemes of Electric Light with Universal
Scintillating Companies. I know nothing of
Grandesella personally, but I do know Lauriola,
and I am not totally unacquainted with the antecedents
of Muckle. Perhaps the directors of the

Company, of wtiicli that very estimable nobleman,
Lord Sark, is chairman, may also, by this
time, know something of these gentlemen."

When these dexterously connected paragraphs
were read by Baron Grandesella and his wife,
they threw them into a transport of delight until
they came to the last, when they suffered a temporary
depression of spirits. Still all publicity,
even when it was not complimentary, suited the
Baron better than the silence of obscurity. And
after all, was he not called an eminent financier,
and his step-daughter alluded to as the cousin of
an earl ? When Muckle read them, he ground
his teeth, and cursed the financial spy system of
a libellous press. When Mrs Rhymer read them,
she smiled, conscious that the mysterious allusion
to her would only have the effect of enhancing
the interest she always excited. When Mrs
Haseleyne read them, she was the first to point
them out to the Duchess, with the remark, " Isn't
it too bad, dear Duchess, that these family episodes
should get out, and be given in such a garbled
form to an inquisitive public ? I often do
wonder how the editors of these social weeklies
get their information." For Mrs Haseleyne lived
in mortal dread of being discovered as the fashionable

contributor to the one in question, and bad
managed to post her letter to the editor herself,
rather than trust it to the Beaufort post-bag, and
the editor had added the last paragraph to those
she had sent him. And when Lord Sark read
them, he took them with bitterness in his soul to
Stella, upon whom, with lover-like inconsistency,
he now heaped the responsibility of all the discomfort
of the situation generally. But Stella
perused them, to his great annoyance, with much
equanimity and apparent interest.

'' Why, this is becoming positively exciting ! "
she remarked. '' Fancy beginning my experiences
in England by a lawsuit to retain possession
of a persecuted young lady ! I declare it's
perfectly splendid ; I must go and consult Bob
and Mattie."

The fact was, that she and Bob and Mattie had
all three become pretty well hardened by this
time, — to such a storm of curious inquiry had
they been subjected from the moment that
Madame Lauriola had imported the contents of
Baroness Grandesella s letter to a select feminine
group, of which, as we have seen, Mrs Haseleyne
proved a not inattentive listener.

'' Who are these Grandesellas, my dear ? " asked

VOL. L R

Lady Broadmere of Madame Lauriola. " I never
heard of them."

Upstarts, who are trying to ]rush their way
into society," replied that lady. " I only know
Madame Grandesella slightly. My husband, I
believe, has had some business matters to arrange
with him."

But I don't quite understand," said Lady
Swansdowne, " what Mrs Rhymer had to do with
it. Why on earth did the girl run away from
Mrs Rhymer? I should have thought her a
most advantageous acquaintance for a girl in
her position."

"Oh, as for her running away from Mrs
Rhymer," responded Madame Lauriola spitefully,
"I don't wonder at that; but they evidently
quarrelled over Sark, at whose head probably the
Baroness wanted to fling her daughter. To get
at the rights of the story you would have to ask
Sark." And Mrs Haseleyne made a mental
memorandum that she would see how much she
could extract from his unsuspicious lordship, in
her quality of secret reporter for the press.

Sat is one of ze most strange histoires I ever
did hear," remarked the Princess ChemiseofF.
'' Ze girl is hiding from her parents, and sere are

tree or four persons in sis house who knows
vere she is, and you cannot find her. What is
ze police about ? "

Oh, it is not a matter for the police," said
Lady Adela Washington. " Poor Sark, how annoyed
he will be at having his name dragged
into it all ! I wonder who will break it to the
Duchess." But, as we have seen, the Duchess
had been prepared for it all, in the first instance,
by Sark himself, though she never expected it
to become a matter of public notoriety. And
with her usual thoughtful kindness, she no sooner
heard of the letter Madame Lauriola had received,
than she went ofi* to prepare her American
guests for the severe fire of cross-examination
they were likely to encounter ; but the coolness
they displayed under that fire, and the skill they
exhibited in baffling their adversaries, did credit
to their Cedar Buttes education.

'•' I have had no intimation from the Baron
and Baroness Grandesella," said Stella, " that their
daughter is staying with my friend in the country
against her will ; they have never communicated
with me on the subject. Of course I don't know
anything about your English ways, and supposed
a girl did not always require to ask leave of her

parents before going to pay a visit to her friends.
Indeed I wrote myself to the Baroness, to tell
she was coming with us, and I supposed that
was enough ; but you English are so absurdly
particular."

Particular ! Mon Dieu" said the Princess,
sey are not half so particular as ze Russians ! "
and she looked across the lawn at Miss Gazewell
going out for a tete-astute ride with Colonel
Lysper.

Do tell us what Mrs Rhymer had to do with
it ? " asked Lady Florence Featherpoll. " She is
one of my dearest friends. I think her quite too
deliciously enchanting. I am just writing to ask
her all about it."

Then wait for her answer, my dear," said
Stella, who had learned to imitate Lady Broad-mere's
patronising " my dear," with a nicety that
made Lady Florence flush with indignation, and
everybody else titter. Bob rose so much in
Mattie's estimation by a trick he had, when
asked compromising questions, of sticking his
glass in his eye, and staring blankly through it at
his questioner, as if he was gradually sinking into
a state of mental imbecility, and then asking him
silly questions, that, in a moment of enthusiasm,

after lie had particularly distinguished himself,
she murmured affectionately, "Why, you splendid
Bob, I take back all I said about making you goon
to the Stock Exchange. You are too clever
for it. Just you hang on to the Zend-Avesta."

There were two men, however, one of whom
was made thoroughly happy, and the other
equally miserable, by the whole episode. The
first was Mac Alpine, and the other was Sark.
The former just knew enough to be able to give
little dissertations to all inquirers, and air his
elegant diction and authoritative utterance with
the bland consciousness of superior information,
which, moreover, enabled him to assume an air of
mystery, as though there was much that he knew
that he did not tell ; whereas, in point of fact, he
told a good deal more than he knew. Sark, on
the other hand, was utterly unapproachable, even
by the boldest, on the subject. There was that
about him which, when he was roused from the
apathy that had enabled the Rhymer to rivet
her chains upon him, made men and women
careful how they ventured too rashly on a familiarity
which he did not invite. So he had no
difficulty in avoiding cross-examination ; but his
position in the affair was all the more canvassed,

especially when the paragraphs in the social
weekly appeared, and his connection with a
questionable financial arrangement was appended
to the domestic scandal.

I see," said Lauriola to Sark, as they sat
together watching Lysper and Basinghall playing
billiards, " that infernal scoundrel, who makes it
his business to attack me in all my business
operations, has taken the liberty of connecting
your lordship's name with mine, with reference
to that amalgamation scheme in which we are
both interested. I have a letter from Muckle on
the subject of that last transfer which your lordship
has undertaken to complete."

I think we had better not drag business
affairs into our life here," replied Sark. " As
for the paragraph, I deliberately rushed upon my
fate when I went into the City, and I don't complain.
I should say you had made enough,
Lauriola, not to mind a little dirt being thrown
at you. A dab or two more or less won't make
much difference." And his lordship turned on
his heel, leaving the financier to pour out his
feelings to Mac Alpine, who came and took the
vacant seat.

CHAPTER XVI.

A LITTLE FASHIONABLE CONVERSATION,

Albert Lauriola was morally and physically
a coarse-fibres, stumpy little man, with a very
slight foreign accent, whose vulgarity would have
fatally handicapped any other woman than his
lovely and talented wife in the social scratch
race. He was therefore all the more proud of
the success which he had achieved, and his inordinate
vanity led him constantly to expatiate
upon it.

This affair may turn out a lucky cou?
socially for Grandesella," he said, turning to
Mac Alpine after Sark had left. " It just gives
him the kind of notoriety he wants. It has been
a curious race all through life between us. I bet
him an even hundred I'd get made a Baron before
he did, and he won. Then I bet Muckle I

would get into Parliament before he did, and
I lost ao-ain. Then Grandesella bet me that he
would win the blue ribbon of society before I
did, and I won ; but I knew with my wife I was
safe. Bless you, she's a woman in a thousand !
nothing; could stand against her. Now that
stepdaughter of Grandesella's ought to carry
him anywhere. His wife is against him — she's
downright vulgar, you know ; but they tell me
the girl is as handsome as a Peri — one of your
regular blue-blooded ones ; and so she ought to
be seeing she's Sark's cousin. It's a great chance
for Grandesella, to be sure."

Tell us how you went to work to make your
own running, old man," said Basinghall, who
had finished his game and overheard Lauriola's
last few remarks, and who perceived that he was
under the influence of sundry sodas-and brandies,
and therefore in a communicative mood, and
not likely easily to take offence. Basinghall, as
Mrs Haseleyne's man," used to make himself
useful in picking up interesting scraps of information
— likely in this case to be especially
welcome, as she had a grudge against Madame
Lauriola. "To tell you the truth, I never
could understand how you and your wife managed

to achieve your brilliant social success so
rapidly."

Lauriola, who was as vain as he was vulgar,
flattered by the marked attention which his
three listeners — for Lysper had joined the other
two — seemed inclined to accord to a recital of
his great social achievements, was probably more
expansive than he would have been under other
circumstances — certainly much more so than if
Madame had been present.

Why, you see, my little woman is ambitious,
and clever as she is — though I say it that
shouldn't — beautiful.

' Albert,' she said to me one day, ' how is it
you never bring any peers or noblemen to seeme?'


'' That was just after I had completed my contracts
for the Submarine Telephonic Company,
which brought me in pretty near half a million.

' I was looking through the names of the
directors of some of the boards you are on,' she
said. ' There's the Earl of Creedmore, and Lord
Pytchley, and Sir George Washington.'

' I only know them officially,' I said. ' I
couldn't venture to ask them to come ; and they
wouldn't come if I did.'

' Come out and drive with me in the Park tomorrow,
and we'll look for some of them,' says
she.

The first man we saw riding next day was
Washington ; and when he nodded to me, he looked
pretty hard at her; and next board-meeting
she came to call at the Company's offices in the
brougham, and sent me up a note to say she
was waiting. It had been arranged before, that I
was accidentally to come down with Washington ;
and when he saw her pretty face looking out,
and smiling and nodding to me, ' Introduce me
to your wife,' he whispers ; so I introduced him,
and went back to the board-room to sign some
papers I had forgotten, and left him talking
to Madame through the carriage window. And
when I came back, —

^ Just think, Albert,' she said ; ' Sir George
has promised to dine with us to-night if we are
quite alone, and will let him go to the House
immediately after dinner.' "

And did Washington o;o to the House immediately
after dinner ? " asked Lysper, with an air
of assumed innocence.

I don't know, for I had to meet a man at the
club early in the evening, and left him with my

^\dfe ; but that little dinner was the beginning of
our good fortune. Washington would dine with
us two or three times a-week ; and their was nothing
he would not do for Madame, he took such
a fancy to her — so much deep sympathy between
them, and all that sort of thing, you know. But
I was not going to have scandals set on foot,
when I knew there was no ground for them, so
I insisted he must bring Lady Adela to call ;
and in order to make it still more proper, Lady
Adela and Madame were always driving out
together. Then we began to give little dinner-parties,
and Washington asked our Duchess hereto
invite us to her parties ; and we worked the
press and the photographers. First, there were
mysterious paragraphs in the social weeklies
about the new beauty — we always had some
writers at dinner — and I got my life written, —
how I look at home, and all that sort of thing."

'eyes, I remember," said Basinghall ; "that
was the first time I ever heard of you. Well,
what did you do next ? "

Why, we spared no expense to get professional
musicians, and had only a select eight or
ten for them to play to : and Washington gave
dinners especially arranged for us — poor aristocrats

with pretty wives. I put the noblemen
into good things, and they brought their pretty
wives to dine with us out of gratitude ; and the
men of fashion who happened to be in love with
the pretty wives were only too glad to be asked."

Yes, I remember," drawled Lysper ; " you
asked me to meet the Rhymer before Sark took
her up, and that was the first time I ever heard
of you."

Well, that was how we extended the list of
our acquaintances in the highest circles ; and
what with notices in the papers, and photographs
in the shops, and financial plums for the poor
aristocrats, and pretty women for the rich ones,
we got to where we could give entertainments on
a large scale, and ask some social lions."

'' And you invited me," interrupted Mac Alpine,
"and that was the first time I ever heard of

you."

Well, we began to push our way then," pursued
Lauriola, not observing the impertinence of
these interruptions. " My little woman has got
the hide of a rhinoceros and the sting of a wasp ;
bless you, she never takes offence, but she never
forgets. She believes in money, perseverance,
good looks, and audacity, as the forces that govern

the world. I used to laugh at her, and call it
impudence, but she said you might as well call
the audace of the first Napoleon impudence. If
people didn't return her cards, she would keep on
leaving hers till they did, and then say that at
last she had made them ashamed of themselves."

And she was right," said Basinghall ; " they
should have been ashamed of themselves."

She had a way of regularly wringing invitations
out of people, leaving them astonished at
their own helplessness. ' It is better,' she would
say, ^ to have the whole aristocracy abusing
you than that they should be ignorant of your
existence.' "

*' No, no," said Lysper, encouraged by his
obtuseness, " there she was wrong : where ignorance
was bliss, 'twas folly to be wise."

One of her tricks," pursued the unconscious
Lauriola, " for frightening an invitation out of a
man's wife, by pretending to make love to her
husband, I never knew fail. Of course I knew
it was only pretence, but neither the poor mannor
his wife did. Then, when she had got the
invitation, she would throw over the man, and
lavish her affections on the wife, who was too
glad to purchase her peace of mind so easily.

Still," added Lauriola, musingly, "it is not so
hard to get people to invite you to go to their
parties as to get them to come to yours ; there's
where the talent lies. Madame wa not one to
be satisfied so long as there was a single member
of the highest circles, the elite of the aristocracy,
you know, the very creme, that held out. That
]proud Duchess of Flamborough was the last to
give in — but she actually came to dinner."

'what was your secret?" asked Basinghall ;
or was it Madame's secret ? "

Just so ; that's why I can't tell it to you,"
replied the parvenu, who seemed to feel a glimmer
of consciousness that there must be a limit
to his indiscretion, and he slowly closed one eye
and swallowed the remaining contents of his
tumbler with an air of profound cunning. " I
must draw the line somewhere, and I draw it
at "

'eat your little woman — eh?" said Lysper.
Well, I think it's a pity other people didn't
draw it there too ; but I warmly congratulate
you, my dear fellow, on having such a treasure,"
he added hurriedly, afraid that he had gone too
far, and giving Lauriola a friendly slap on the
back by way of a final nocturnal salute.

'' AVliat an ineffable little cad it is ! " said
Basinghall, with a sigh of relief, as he watched
Lauriola's retiring and somewhat unsteady figure.
There must be a hidden charm in Madame to
make Washington tolerate him as he does. Did
you hear how Sark snubbed him ? By the way,
what a mysterious young woman that undiscovered
cousin of his seems to be ! Why shouldn't
we oro into the knight-errant line of business,
Lysper, — discover the retreat of this interesting
and persecuted female, and go and protect her, or
run away with her, as the case may be ? "

"If I could only find out where it was, I
should be game. We have all of us tried to get
it out of Sark, but one might as well try to draw
a hedgehog. I must say, MacAlpine, considering
that you formed one of the party in Paris, you
might have got it out either of the American
girls or Bob Alderney before now."

I have not made the attempt," said MacAlpine,
primly, " as I have felt bound to respect
what I understood to be Miss Peto's own wishes
in the matter; and I doubt whether your services
would be particularly — er — acceptable to her in
the capacity you suggest."

Bob Alderney tells me," said Basinghall,

that Grandesella is a large edition of Lauriola,
another of those financiers who want to use
their wealth and their womankind as pulleys to
hoist them into society ; and, as far as I can
understand, the daughter has run away because
she refuses to be sold to the Clinker for the purpose.
I was talking about her to Lady Adela today,
who had no idea that she had such a cousin
in existence till this affair happened, and she tells
me she is going to consult Sark about it. By the
way, I see you've given up Fanny Gazewell, and
have been making tremendous running with the
Californian heiress for the last day or two."

The fair Fanny's methods of attack are too
aggressive," Lysper simpered. "It is such a
bore having to be constantly on your guard. It
is all very well with married women, where no
harm can come of it, and you can back out when
you like, as it seems Sark has from the Rhymer ;
but the way that girl and her aunt lay traps for
the unwary, is positively scandalous. Beside, I
must marry money if I marry at all."

You have got rather a serious rival with the
Californian in Sark," said Mac Alpine.

It seems to me you are not altogether disinterested
in that quarter yourself," retorted the

other ; " you seemed to be having a most confidential
conversation in the library this morning."

"A little triplet of my own composition that
I was reading her ; what conceptions of the pure
she has for — er — a Californian ! "

Then I'm afraid we have none of us much
chance," laughed Basinghall. "However, it's a
cup I don't mean to enter for, though there's a
style about the girl which, with her money, ought
to give her the command of the matrimonial
market next season ; so if you mean to do anything,
Lysper, you have no time to lose. I
wonder what made Bob Alderney go in for the
friend, who has neither looks nor nuggets. My
own impression is that there's a plant somewhere,
and that Miss Peto is at the bottom of it."

From all which it appeared that the general
situation was one which exercised the imaginations
of these smart gentlemen to an unusual
degree ; nor was it altogether without reason — for
in point of fact, both Sark and his sister were
at that moment, unconsciously to each other,
arranging in their own minds a meeting on the
subject, which took place on the following day.

Adela," said Sark, as he walked her oj0f to
the conservatory, " you are one of the best and

VOL. I. S

purest women I know, and the only one to whom
I can unburden myself freely about this new
cousin of ours, who, curiously enough, has first
revealed her existence to you by hiding away
from the world — and not about her alone, but
about two other women with whom my fate
seems to have become linked in an incomprehensible
manner."

You need not name them," said Lady Adela,
smiling. " I have not been nearly a week in the
house with you and Miss Walton without knowing
that she is one, nor have I lived in London
for the last two years without knowing that
Mrs Rhymer is the other."

Exactly. You have had abundant opportunity
of judging of them both, of estimating the
value of their respective powers of fascination,
possibly of understanding why, in the one case,
the attraction which has held me for so long has
lost its charm, and why the other has seemed tome
so irresistible. You have observed enough
of them both to see how totally unlike they are
to the ordinary type, and may have perceived
that I yielded, first in the one case and then in
the other, to an influence which derived its
strength in a large measure from the rarity of

its nature. But you have never seen or known
the third, perhaps the most remarkable and uncommon
character of the three, and as totally
unlike the other two as they are to each other ;
and yet, strange to say, the one whose influence,
even more powerful than that of the other two,
has never affected me in the same way."

"You mean," said his sister, "that you did
not fall in love with her. Perhaps, considering
there were two already, it was an embarrass de
richesses.

If that was all, the difficulty might be more
easily solved," and Sark went on to describe his
refusal by Stella, and the reasons he had for believing
that his cousin would be sacrificed to
gratify the social ambitions of her parents by a
forced marriage, or a no less forced intimacy with
the woman whom he had himself been the means
of introducing to them ; and what still more
complicated the situation — the hints which he
had received, that he had himself won her heart,
and therefore had it in his power to save her
from the fate which she was now hiding to avoid,
at the same time that he secured her happiness
for life. In fact, he had, since Stella's rejection
of his suit, made up his mind that the easiest

way to escape from the Rhymer, to console himself
for his disappointment, to secure the happiness
of a woman he respected, and to put an end
to what threatened to become a domestic scandal
of a most disagreeable kind, was to propose to
marry her himself — '^ a fate," he added, " considering
her great personal and mental attractions
and nobility of character, any man might
envy."

Do you come," asked Lady Adela, " to ask
me for my advice, or to tell me your intentions ? "

Like most people who ask advice," he replied,
I come to see whether your advice agrees with
my intentions. It is fair to tell you, my mind
is pretty well made up on the matter."

Then, from what you have told me of Miss
Peto, I think you have made it up wisely," said
Lady Adela, who held Mrs Rhymer in such horror
that she was delighted at Sark's resolution.

I am glad," said her brother, " to hear you
say so ; it does not remove my doubts, for they
no longer exist, but it confirms my judgment.
It is evident that every day is precious, for I
gather that the Grandesellas and Mrs Rhymer are
on her scent, and her retreat cannot much longer
be concealed."

We go home on Saturday," said Lady Adela ;
and remember, should she need it, she always
has a home with us. I am sure George will
make no objection."

Then I shall start by to-night's train — called
away by sudden business ; the only person to
whom you may privately tell its nature is Miss
Walton. She will be leaving herself the day
after tomorrow, but by that time the whole
matter will be settled." And, much to the
astonishment of the rest of the party, Sark disappeared
the same afternoon, while the ladies
were out driving, without saying good-bye to
them, having accounted for his absence to the
Duchess in a manner which easily satisfied that
good-natured woman, but with which she by no
means succeeded in so easily satisfying the more
suspicious curiosity of her guests.

Chapter XVII.

LADY ADELA Washington.

Can you make an effort to get up an hour
earlier than usual tomorrow morning, and let us
have a walk in the garden ? " said Lady Detain
an undertone, to Stella that evening as they
parted for the night. " There are several matters
which I think it might be useful for us to discuss
together." Lady Adela had from the first taken
a fancy to the heiress, and had learned with
pain her brother's disappointment. She not only
wished to discover the girl's real motive for
refusing an offer which, from a worldly point
of view, was so eligible, but for accepting the
proposal of so undesirable a person as Muckle,
on conditions so little creditable to herself. There
was a mystery in the whole affair which she was
determined to unravel, on Sark's account ; for
the episode seemed altogether inconsistent with

the estimate her observation had led her to form
of Miss Walton's real character.

To Stella, Lady Adela s conduct had often been
no less enigmatical. She had wondered at her
intimacy with Lord St Olave, and at a certain
lightness and flippancy of manner which was
often contradicted by her depth and earnestness
of sentiment on the few occasions when the opportunity
was afforded of a little longer conversation
than usual in a house full of people ; and she had
no difficulty in divining the motive which had
suggested the present meeting. Indeed her
curiosity was' to some extent roused by her
anxiety to discover the cause of Sark's abrupt
departure ; and by a tacit understanding, they
no sooner met than they plunged at once into the
topic which was uppermost in both their minds.

Were you surprised at my brother's sudden
disappearance yesterday ? " asked Lady Adela.

Not altogether. He doubtless told you what
happened the day before."

Yes ; and that is just why I asked you to
meet me alone, for his account of what transpired
was so utterly unlike what I expected, and your
reasons for refusing him were so different from
any I could have conceived possible, that I

thought lie must have misunderstood you, and
I wanted to hear the rights of the matter from
your own lips."

First tell me, Lady Adela, whether Lord
Sark has gone to see his cousin, and with what
intention? You will see why it is necessary I
should know this before entering upon any explanation,
when you have heard what that explanation
is."

Yes," replied Lady Adela ; "he has made up
his mind, for reasons which you can perhaps
understand, to ask Miss Peto to accept him asher
husband."

For a moment the colour left Stella's face, and
she made a desperate and successful effort to
conceal all traces of emotion.

'' I am glad of it," she said calmly, after a
moment's pause ; " they are worthy of each other.
Believe me. Lady Adela, you will never regret
the choice your brother has made, and he will
live to be eternally grateful to me for refusing
him. He will marry one who brings him not
only the treasures of her heart, but what is more
priceless, a moral nature and intellectual gifts of
the highest order."

"And now," said Lady Adela, smiling, "the

explanation you promised. You will not think
me very curious, but I want to know it, for your
own sake. I can understand your refusing Sark,
on the ground of not caring for him, but I cannot
understand it on the grounds upon which you
put it to him."

"You mean what he called my provisional
contract with Mr Muckle ? My dear Lady Adelaide
is so provisional, that there is not the slightest
chance of anything ever coming of it. Mr
Muckle, knowing I was an heiress, asked me to
be his wife as a matter of business ; and I, knowing
he was a contractor, replied to him as a
matter of business. No business contract is an
impossibility in the abstract ; it simply becomes
an impossibility by virtue of the conditions imposed.
I placed upon Mr Muckle conditions
which I knew to be perfectly impossible for him
to comply with ; and on those conditions, which
it is not necessary for me to specify, I agreed
to perform my part of the contract. I also took
care to give him a time limit, and in another
month it will expire ; but nothing would ever
induce me to marry him. I only thought, as he
evidently wanted to make use of me, that I would
make use of him. As an heiress, you know, it

might be often convenient to say that you were
engaged, even when you had no intention of
marrying the man you pretended to be engaged
to. There is nothing so very wrong in that, is
there ? And," she added, looking at Lady Adela
with a humorous twinkle in her eye, " I am so
young and inexperienced, you must make allowances
for an untutored savage from the wilds of
California."

Oh, nonsense ! " said Lady Adela, laughing.
I could wish some of the young savages in my
own country were half as well tutored as you.
But as you never meant to marry Mr Muckle,
I am all the more puzzled to know why you
refused Sark. He is a man that women have
not found it difficult to love, and he was passionately
devoted to you — all the more so, because
he became aware of the vast difference which
existed in his sentiments for you from that which
he felt for the woman from whose bondage you
have been the means of releasing him."

That indeed will be matter of lasting consolation
to me," said Stella, with such unexpected
earnestness that Lady Adela looked up ; and she
added hastily, to cover her confusion, " because,
you know, I am so fond of Altera ; and I shall
ever be glad that I have been the means of

securing lier happiness. And that, indeed, was
my reason for refusing your brother. I thought
if I did, and told him how much Altera loved
him, his own generous nature would leave him
no escape from the honourable alternative of proposing
to her, — and, you see, my wily tactics
have succeeded. That's what comes of passing
one's youth among Need Indians."

"And you did not care for him yourself?"
asked Lady Adela, in rather a disappointed tone ;
for she was proud of her brother, and felt a little
piqued at this apparent lack of appreciation on
the part of one whom she supposed had not had
many opportunities of seeing others like him.

Oh, I think him most delightful — a man any
woman might be proud of," said Stella, warmly.
But I have peculiar ideas as to the sentiments
one ought to entertain towards the man one marries,"
she added, evading the question. " Perhaps
some day I will tell you about them. However,
all's well that ends well. From what I have seen
of English marriages, they don't seem to me very
successful."

Lady Adela sighed. " Perhaps if we had what
you call your peculiar ideas, they would be happier,"
she said.

Dear Lady Adela," Stella went on, " we have

known each other so little, that perhaps my curiosity
may seem impertinent, but indeed it is not ;
and this conversation seems to have brought us
so much nearer together, that I feel emboldened
by it. You asked me for an explanation, so that
you should not do me an injustice ; I should like
to ask you for one for the same reason — may I ? "

Certainly. If I can I will give it, and I hope
it will be as satisfactory as yours."

Then," said Stella, frankly, " I want to know
why you allow Lord St Olave to pay you so
much attention ! Are you not afraid of misconstruction
? "

Misconstruction of conduct which a husband
approves, does not hurt a wife socially. If I
accept Lord St Olave's attentions, it is because
they protect me from those of others, and because
he understands my motives, and is too
honourable to take advantage of them. In a
society where flirtation forms the principal accomplishment
of married life on the part of both
partners, it would be ridiculous for a poor weak
woman like me to attempt to stem the current,
or to set up a standard of my own. In cases
where the husbands are especially addicted to
this pursuit, their wives are all the less able to
stand alone, partly because they lack the legitimate

protection ; often because they are expected
by their own husbands to make their houses
attractive to the other sex by accepting their
homage ; nearly always because men like to see
their wives admired, and they themselves gain
certain social advantages from their popularity.
In addition to this, it allows them greater freedom
to flirt themselves if they have wives who
flirt ; and the wives of men who flirt are much
more made up to by the men, because they are
less afraid of the husbands, and fancy the wives
need consolation. In addition to all these reasons
why it is almost necessary for a young married
woman to flirt nowadays — the most powerful of
all is, that it is the fashion. Therefore, my dear
Stella — you don't mind my calling you Stella ? —
you see that, as we are all doing the same thing,
there is no fear of misconstruction, for there is
nobody to misconstrue us. If everybody is in
the same boat, nobody will tip it over."

But," said Stella, " surely there are exceptions
to this general rule of flirtation ? "

Of course there are exceptions, and very
numerous exceptions. There are all the people
who are happily married, and therefore don't
flirt ; and there are the husbands who are too
busy, and the wives who are too prim, or too

stupid, or too ugly for anybody to want to flirt
with them. But they are a scattered company,
without cohesion, and don't make society. They
are powerless to affect its conduct. Society is a
tolerably compact body, with its own standard of
propriety, or rather impropriety ; and it's no use,
whether you are in it or outside of it, to kick
against the pricks. If you are good-looking, and
your husband exposes you to it for his own purposes,
flirt you must. There is scarcely a young
man who would not feel he was wanting in the
first duty in life, if he saw you were neglected
and did not instantly make love to you ; and, in
fact, the women would be very much surprised if
they did not, and very often have to jog their
memories and their manners, and commence
operations. Now, as I live in the thick of this
society, and as I don't want to be eternally
either on the aggressive or defensive, St Olave
who has been a good deal tried by some of
the beauties, he is so handsome, you know, but
really has no taste for flirtation — and I have
agreed that we will do just what is required in
the mutual adoration line to satisfy society and
protect ourselves, and it really succeeds admirably
: we have got to be quite fond of each
other."

"You don't tell me I" exclaimed Stella, with
such a comical expression of assumed surprise
that Lady Adela felt inclined to be offended ;
seeing which, she hastily added, " There, now,
you are angry with me because of my Americanisms
; I really must try to break myself of them.
How kind of you. Lady Adela, to explain all this
to me so clearly 1 I never should have understood
it otherwise. I quite see now, how, in my
ignorance of the manners of the best society, I
might have misjudged you. What a bad time
the girls must have, with all the young married
women going on like that ! Don't they do a
little flirting too ? I have managed a little
already ; but then, you know, I am a stranger."

They do all they know, as my husband
would say ; but they have not much chance, as
Lady Florence and Lady Edith Feathers, and
Fanny Gazewell will tell you. The men are
afraid of getting caught, unless in the case of
great heiresses like you ; but they are few and
far between."

Then," said Stella, demurely, " if my taste
happens to run in that direction, I may be able
to gratify it."

Oh, you'll be hunted to death ! I should
advise you to extend the term of your provisional

contract with Muckle ; you will constantly
have to fall back upon it. And now let us go
into breakfast ; but, first, I want you and your
friend to come and pay us a visit at Copley
Grange after you leave this."

Copley Grange ! Is that anywhere near the
village of Copleydale ? " said Stella, surprised.

Only two miles from it. Why, what do
you know of Copleydale ? " asked Lady Adela,
equally astonished.

"Simply — but this. Lady Adela, is in the
most profound confidence — that it is the place
where your brother is probably to be found at
this moment."

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.

■m :^

M-^

>#>;

^t^

m

^^#^:

CENTRAL CIRCULATION BOOKSTACKS

The person charging this material is responsible
for its renewal or its return to
the library from which it was borrowed
on or before the Latest Date stamped
below. You may be charged a minimum
fee of $75.00 for each lost boole.

Ihttft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result In dismissal from
the University.
TO RENEW CALL TELEPHONE CENTER, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

OCT 1 1 1995

Decoy

WF\

When renewing by phone, write new due date below
previous due date. L162

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/altiorapeto02olip

Frontispiece, VOL. II

BY

Laurence OLIPHANT

AUTHOR OF 'Piccadilly 'TRAITS AND TRAVESTIES,' ETC.

IN TWO VOLUMES— YOL. 11.

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDGCCLXXXIII

J Jl l}i nhfa 'i^pfii^Wi^il.

CONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAP.
XVIII.

XIX.

XX.

XXI.

XXII.

XXIII.

XXIV.

XXV.

XXVI.

XXVII.

XXVIII.

XXIX.

XXX.

XXXI.

SOME PROPOSALS AT A PICNIC,

KEITH HETHERINGTON's SOLUTION OF THE
PROBLEM,

the baroness makes a disclosure,

stella comes to the rescue,

mattie in an inquiring mood, .

moral and chemical explosives,

mr muckle pays a visit,

mrs rhymer plots revenge,

Hannah's toilet,

hannah expounds to the curate,

the EFFECTS OF AN EXPLOSION, .
MRS CLYMER MEETS A MAN AND A "BROTHER,"
NURSING UNDER DIFFICULTIES,

HANNAH HEARS SOMETHING TO HER Advantage,


PAGE



























XXXII. MR Callings PERFORMS A DELICATE DUTY, . 192

XXXIII. THE PARTY AT KILLBOGGIN, . . . .206

XXXIV. MR Muckle FEELS THAT HE IS A VICTIM, . 219
XXXV. THE BARON AND BARONESS SUCCUMB TO Circumstances,
235

XXXVI. A JOINT CONFESSION, . . . • • 247

XXXVII. altera's last words, . . . .259

Chapter XVIII.

SOME PROPOSALS AT A PICNIC.

Stella found Lady Adela's prediction verified
more speedily than she expected. A picnic had
been arranged for the same afternoon at some
ruins in the neighbourhood, and Lysper, who had
suddenly developed great archaeological proclivities,
had asked the heiress to explore their more
hidden recesses, when he thought a favourable
moment had arrived for carrying out a design
that had germinated in his bosom ever since
Basinghall had the night before warned him that
now was his chance, and that if he waited for
the London season, it would be gone. Moreover,
he was much relieved by the absence of Sark ;

VOL. II. A

and as the party at the Castle was to break upon
the following day, he not only felt that he
must act at once, but that a way of escape was
prepared for him in case of refusal — for it is
always embarrassing, even to a Guardsman, to
continue to live in the same house with a girl
who has refused you. Lysper had not been at
Tel-el-Kebir, but his imagination had been much
inflamed by the magnificent manner in which
that strong position had been stormed. It is
sudden and expected dash that does it, he reflected
within himself. She may throw down
her arms like Arabs's fellaheen, if I storm her
unawares ; and he did it this wise. " This is a
steep little pull, Miss Walton, but it is worth it
you get such a magnificent view of the ruin
from the top. Won't you take my arm ? "

Stella, who was quite as competent to scale a
hillside as he was, looked at him askance. She
was in a defiant, reckless mood, for she had been
stifling her regrets all day, and her envy of
Altera, and felt ready for any deed of daring
likely to kill care. With a sigh which might
have meant shortness of breath, or a tenderer
feeling, she slipped her arm in his, and he
pressed it gently in proportion as the ascent

became steeper, until, at the top, no doubt remained
as to its character. " She does not seem
to mind," he thought, " and doing it by squeezing
saves such a lot of words ; " so with still
greater daring he quietly grasped the slender
hand on his arm with his other hand. Then, to
his delight, he thought he felt a response, which
sent a thrill through him."

Confound it," he said to himself, " how
much more difficult it is to think what to say
when you mean business, than when you are
merely spooning ! " Universal experience testifies
to the truth of this reflection, and it occurred
to Lysper that if he blurted out her Christian
name, it would break the ice effectually. Now
we all know what an effort it is, and how unnatural
it sounds, to say Mary or Jane for the first
time to Miss Smith or Miss Thompson. With
the daughters of earls and upwards, it is easier
for then you have only to drop the lady ; but
the privilege of proposing to these distinguished
personages is confined to few. Lysper had overheard
Stella called Mattie by her friend, in a moment
of forgetfulness — for it will be remembered
that the two girls had changed names — and on
the information so acquired, he boldly proceeded.

Oh, Mattie ! " he exclaimed, with a deep
sigh, and an impressive squeeze on the imprisoned
hand.

Yes," said Stella, with an intensely sentimental
gaze into his face, but not a little astonished
at his calling her by her right name.
^' What— oh, what about Mattie?"

I love her," said Lysper, thinking she was
timidly speaking of herself in the third person ;
and what a capital way she had hit upon to
make him feel more at his ease. " Would she
marry me if lie knew that my heart was wholly
hers ? "

Oh," replied Stella, turning her head to hide
her laughter, as the ludicrousness of his mistake
struck her, " how can I tell you without knowing
more ? Do you really love her very, very much ? "

'' I can't describe the nature of my feelings,"
said Lysper, again at loss for words.

"Try, dear Colonel Lysper," said Stella, encouragingly.
" I should so like to hear you say
exactly how much you loved her. Can't you
analyse the sentiment ? "

Well," said poor Lysper, " the thing is too
deep for words, but I'll try and put it into them.
Just sit down on that stone for a minute. I will

place myself at your feet. Now, let me look into
your eyes for inspiration."

Stella bent upon him those glowing orbs,
charged with the most overpowering expression
of tenderness they were capable of conveying,
and said softly, with a blush —

What am I to call you ? "

Augustus," said the enraptured Lysper, fast
feeling that words were coming to him.

Go on, Augustus — I am listening."

Well, I've loved a lot of women, but there
is something about Mattie " — and he looked up
with infinite meaning — "that beats them all.
Her touch sets all my pulses throbbing ; the
glance of her eye," and he caught hers, " seems
to go all through me with a sort of something between
a quiver and a shiver that I can't describe.
I feel as if I could kiss the very ground she
treads on ; in fact, hang me if I can stand it
any longer ! "

"Nor I either," said Stella, jumping up, as
Lysper seemed about to proceed to more affectionate
demonstration ; " see, there she comes,"
and Mattie, accompanied by Bob Alderney,
suddenly turned a corner of the ruin. " Mattie,
dear, Colonel Lysper has just been telling me

that he has something he wishes particularly
to say to you," and she ran to meet her friend,
and carrying off the astonished Bob, whispered
Mattie to go to the discomfited colonel.

"What is it," said Mattie, approaching him,
that you wished to say to me ? "

Oh, nothing," said Lysper, overwhelmed with
confusion; "at least — yes, there is something, if
you won't think me very rude, — may I ask you
what your name is ? "

As Lysper seemed temporarily to have taken
leave of his senses, Mattie thought it best to
humour him, and replied, "Mattie Terrill : why
do you ask ? "

"' Oh, nothing, only I wanted to know ; thank
you so much. Pray tell your friend that it's alla
mistake ; thank you so much. Pray forgive
me for having seemed so rude as to want to
know your name. Shall we join the others ? "
said Lysper, anxious to lose himself in a crowd,
and hide his diminished head anywhere.

"Mattie," said Stella to her friend the same
evening, " your fortune is becoming a burden
greater than I can bear. What do you think
happened to-day. after I had handed that ludicrous
creature, Lysper, over to you ? "

I suppose somebody else proposed to you,
as Sark was no longer there to frighten the
men a^Yay."

Exactly. I next fell a prey to Eonald MacAlpine,
who, it seems, has been assured by
Muckle that I am engaged to be married to him.
As that is a piece of intelligence I wish no one to
impart but myself, I of course denied it flatly."

And what did he say ? "

Oh, he said I was his supreme conception,
his transcendentalest vision, his perfected dream,
his preciousest ideal, — I never heard such a lot
of superlatives tacked on to words they don't belong
to."

And what did you say ? "

"What could I say? I was in a humour to
say anything, I felt so mad, just after I had
heard it all from Lysper too. It began to get
monotonous, so I said, just to shock his exquisitely
refined sensibilities, ' All right, old chap
shove ahead.' "

Oh, Stella, you never said such a thing ! "

I did indeed. I was obliged to use the
English vernacular; I was afraid he might not
understand the more forcible language of my
native state."

And then what happened ? "

"Why, he flushed up rather offended, and a
good deal put out, and said, ' Miss Walton, you
are trifling with my most sacred affections.'

' Not a bit,' I said; 'I never was more serious
in my life. I have the greatest esteem and regard
for your affections : what do you want me to do
with them ? '

'' ' Return them,' he replied.

' Oh, certainly. I won't keep them, if you
would rather I gave them back.'

' Stella,' he went on, ' you know what I
mean ; I ask for yours in return for mine. My
heart, my — er — hand, everything I have is at
your disposition.'

' Mr MacAlpine,' I replied, ' I won't affect to
misunderstand you any longer ; you want mein
return to place my heart and hand and everything
I have at yours. Now, as you are a man
of honour, I will tell you in the strictest confidence
what it all amounts to, and then you
can tell me whether you continue to want it ;
but you must pledge me your word as a gentleman
never to reveal what I am going to disclose
to you to a living soul.'

' I solemnly swear,' he said.

' Very well, then, I am not Stella Walton at
all, but Mattie Terrill. My friend, who is the
heiress, and I have changed places, and my total
fortune amounts to 750 dollars a-year, which in
your currency is £150. Now don't allow any
false modesty to prevent you from frankly
taking back your proposal, which was made
under a misconception. I shall esteem you
more highly if you own up that you meant
to marry me for my money, than if you pretend
you didn't ; and to make it more easy for you,
you may consider yourself refused, anyhow.'

' Oh how magnanimously generous ! ' he said,
accepting the situation without a murmur of
apparent shame or regret. ' What a subject
for a ballad ! You may rest assured that your
confidence will be most religiously observed.
See yonder spray of fern, how gracefully it
droops over that white pebble 1 ' he went on,
dexterously changing the subject ; and until we
joined the others he discoursed to me on the
value of ferns in art."

That makes four proposals you have had in
the first two months — Sark, Muckle, Lysper,
and MacAlpine; and during the season, I suppose
they will come much more quickly," said

Mattie. " I am so glad you will have an opportunity
then of snubbing all these spoilt men.
The sort of way the girls run after them, and
make up to them, instead of keeping them under
their heels, where they properly belong, makes
me trample upon Bob, just because I have to
give vent to my feelings on some young man,
and he is the only one around who takes any
notice of me. Do you see how that ridiculous
Edith Featherpoll — the ugly one, you know —
has been languishing after MacAlpine, with her
flowers, and her sonnets, and her water-colours,
and her fantastic style of dress, which she always
goes to him to approve; and what a dead set
Lady Florence has made all the time we have
been here at Lord St Olave ; and how Fanny
Gazewell enticed Colonel Lysper the other day
to get up a tree after her, I suppose in order
that she might make him propose among the
branches? But what made me real mad was
an attempt of Mrs Haseleyne to get hold of
Bob. She has got her own man, — what did she
want mine for ? "

That's what Fanny Gazewell complains about,"
said Stella. " She told me that she no sooner
thinks she has got hold of a man, than some

pretty young married woman comes along and
snaps him up, and carries him off — like a big
dog taking a bone out of a little dog's mouth.
She says the reason she wants to marry someone
is, because she is tired of being a little dog,
and wants to have some of the fun of being a
big one."

Pleasant for the husband," said Mattie.

Oh, they don't mind, — at least not in the
best society. Lady Adela was telling me all
about it."

Well," returned Mattie, " Bob is in the best
society, and he ain't that kind, though I had to
cut him for a whole day when I saw him staring
back through his eye-glass at Mrs Haseleyne.
What are you to do,' he said, ' when a pretty
woman ogles you or squeezes your hand ? It
isn't polite not to ogle or squeeze hers back
again. And then she draws you on, and you
can't be a brute, even if you don't like it ;
but,' said Bob, frankly, 'I must say it's rather
pleasant; it is not the sort of thing that any
man can actively dislike, you know. Besides,
if he doesn't respond, then she gets furious,
and abuses him everywhere, and the men think
him an absolute fool. He wouldn't be asked

anywhere, because he would not be considered
of any use. Flirtation is the sauce of society
Bob went on sententiously, when he was excusing
his abominable conduct. ' Just try, for
instance, and fancy all the married women
obliged to cover their faces with thick yash-
make, and imagination fails in the effort to
depict the consequences. For nine young men
and women out of ten the spice of life would
be gone.' ' The flirtations of the unmarried ones,
which are legitimate, would give it quite flavour
enough,' I said ; ' and if you want any more ' —
then all of a sudden my eyes filled with tears,
and I jumped up from the bench where we were
sitting under the trees — ^ you may go to your
Haseleynes, and stay there ; ' and I ran off, but
Bob overtook me almost immediately, and we
had a most delicious making up. Stella, do you
know, I don't think I like this English society
very much. I began to hate it from the first
day, when Bob whispered that we must not call
each other by our Christian names in public,
as it wouldn't be understood, — that it was the
privilege which the married women reserved to
themselves; and I am sure I overheard Mrs
Haseleyne call him Bob."

Well, dear," said Stella, '' we won't stay a
day longer than you like ; but I think we ought
to pay our visit to Copley Grange first. Did
Lady Adela tell you of her invitation to us ? "

"Yes," said Mattie ; "wasn't it odd that
Altera should be staying so near ? Bob told
me he thought of the place from having once
stayed at the Grange, and having been struck
by the quiet seclusion of the village. How
nice it is to think that we shall be back there
tomorrow ! and what an age it seems since
we left, though it's only a week ! I wonder
how Altera, and Hannah, and Keith Wethers
have been amusing themselves ? " And
as the reader is probably by this time beginning
to wonder the same thing, and nobody
is able to describe the somewhat complicated
workings of Altera's mind better than that
young lady herself, she shall be allowed todo
it in her own words.

Chapter XIX.

KEITH HETHERINGTOn's SOLUTION OF THE
PROBLEM.

I WONDER whether moral growth corresponds
in any way to one's natural conceptions of
time ; or whether, while one's physical frame
may be slowly undergoing the changes incidental
to the lapse of what we call years, our
moral natures may not advance by bounds not
to be defined by any periods of which our
external faculties can take cognisance ? I have
only been here a week, but my mind, or whatever
the part of me is that is not my external
physical frame, seems to have undergone a complete
revolution. Scientific men should have
some name for that part of the body that they
admit they know nothing about. " The Small
Unknowable " would do. They get as far as

protoplasm, and then they stop abruptly; but
when you want to talk about the thinking, and
the perceiving, and the loving, and the suffering,
and the willing part of you, they take refuge in
vague terms like "mind," and "imagination,"
and "volition," and leave other vague terms,
like " soul " and " spirit," for the clergy to use
with a sort of contempt, as if one set of terms
conveyed any more definite idea than the other.
I was talking to Mr Hetherington, who seems
himself to be a person of a very great toleration
for ecclesiastical or scientific bigotry, and
he said the confusion arose from the old-fashioned
ideas attaching to the words " matter "
and "spirit." He said he had great sympathy
with the indignation of the theologians when
they were told that everything was matter, and
there was no spirit. " Just think," he said,
how angry the scientific men would be if you
insisted that they were all living in a delusion,
and there was no such thing as matter, and
everything was spirit. And yet one statement
is quite as true as the other — they are both
right, and they are both wrong. They have
got hold of two words which mean nothing,
because they define nothing. The man of

science has no right to say, when he exhausts
the power of his microscope, that he has got
to the end of matter. He brings an electric
light to bear upon what he called a vacuum,
because there was what he called ' nothing ' in
it ; and, lo and behold ! he finds something
which can reflect rays of light : that each of
those particles, so small as to exist in vacuo,
does not seem to him as big as a mountain,
is simply the result of the focus of his eye.
What is there to prevent the empty spaces,
in which every atom composing every molecule
of the human organism is held in suspense,
from being full of still minuter particles,
measured by the standard of our senses, which
would therefore correspond exactly to an invisible
human frame, and which might continue to
exist after the appreciable particles had undergone
the chemical change called ' decomposition
' ? The body then existing, composed of
those particles which hadn't changed, becomes
what the theologian calls ' spirit ' ; but why he
should shrink from this hypothesis for fear of
becoming a materialist, as much as the scientific
man does from it for fear of becoming a spirits,
passes my comprehension. Both must admit the

existence of force, but the notion of that force
existing, irrespective of a transmitting medium,
appears absurd. It would be as well, however,
for the purpose of soothing susceptibilities, not
to call that ^ something,' through which it must
act, either matter or spirit, but to find another
name for it. You would then find a common
ground upon which both classes might meet
and experiment ; but it is evident that, inasmuch
as these forces are positive dynamic
agencies, the nature of whose action upon the
human organism is conditioned upon various
emotions, these experiments must partake of
a moral character. Thus the emotion of fear
would operate in one way upon these forces
and the particles which contain them, the emotion
of love in another, the emotion of anger
in another, and so forth ; and it is further evident
that the possible result of such experiments
might be to indicate a method by which
they might be modified, and their existing - conditions
might be changed for the better. An
evolutionary period would thus be inaugurated
in the inner man — that essential man who is
formed of the particles not appreciable by scientific
investigation with existing appliances, but

VOL. II. B

which are held in suspense in the spaces in his
organism, which are scientifically appreciable —
which might revolutionise his whole moral
nature, and make him a far more fit inhabitant
of the world than he is at present. This,"
said Keith, "is my idea of how the survival of
the fittest is to be brought about ; for who can
say, when once we begin to evolve the real man,
instead of tinkering away at his gross outer
covering, as we do at present, that we may
not effect a fundamental change in his vital
conditions — for we shall be dealing directly
with his vital forces — whereas we now cut him
in half, and give the theologians what they call
his soul to doctor, and to the doctors what they
call his body to physic? It's a wonder, poor
fellow, considering how violently his organism
is thus wrenched in twain, that he lives as long
as he sometimes does."

But how would you set to work to make your
experiments?" I asked, "in this hypothetical region
of the human organism which you assume
to exist ? "

All scientific experiments," he replied, " are
based upon hypothetical assumptions. The simplest
mathematical problem depends upon the

assumption of a straight line, which does not
exist. Every skipper, when he takes an observation
and uses his table of logarithms, is working
with materials which go beyond anything
that the strongest imagination can realise. It is
an old scientific axiom that nature abhors a vacuum
— abhors it so much that, as we have seen,
men of science so far have been unable to create
one. In granting the hypothesis that the spaces
which science has discovered in our organism are
not vacua, we are not asking men of science to
make an admission for which they would not be
prepared. Their difficulty would be, as you suggest,
how to experiment upon a region which
escapes positive scientific analysis. For this purpose
they would have to go a step further, and
assume not only that these spaces contained
forces, but that those forces must be moral as
well as physical. But in assuming this, for the
sake of basing an experiment upon it, they would
be merely following the recognised practice. It
has been on the foundation of unproved assumptions
that some of the greatest scientific discoveries
have been built." *

Granting, then," I said, " for the sake of argument,
that these spaces in the organism are the

source from wliicli emotional and will forces radiate,
the problem still remains — How do you propose
to experiment upon them ? "

'' Obviously, when once it is granted that they
may be moral forces, they must be experimented
upon morally ; but this is as foreign to the habits
and methods of the man of science as of the
theologian. Here the human victim, whom they
have hitherto divided between them, falls to the
ground. The theologian, who has a plan of salvation
provided for him by his interpretation of
his religion, quite other than the moral purification
by a man's own efforts, of the impure forces
occupying the spaces in his organism, will shrink
with horror from experimenting in such a direction
; while the man of science, scarcely less
scandalised at being asked to step out of the
region of what he calls ' pure ' science, into the
quagmire of impure moral force, will shudder
at the thought of attempting an experiment in
which his microscope will be of no avail."

But I don't see," said I, " how, even if the
theologian, and the scientist as Stella would call
him, were not held back by their prejudices, they
could set about the experiments you talk of."

The way to begin is, first, to select the special

moral force which, for the sake of experiment, the
investigator desires to develop into new conditions
; he would naturally, for this purpose, take
what he feels to be the purest and most refined
in his nature. We will assume that he is a man
of elevated moral temperament, and that he is
conscious of what is commonly known as *an
enthusiasm for humanity,' and that he perceives
intellectually that this love for the human race
must transcend every other affection in its essential
quality."

I should have supposed," said I, " that the
love for the Deity was an equally high and pure
edition."

That would be the moral force probably selected
by the theologian, and rightly so selected.
I had in my mind the scientist or philosopher
who knows nothing about the Deity, and must
therefore begin with the highest emotion of
which he is capable — the love of his neighbour.
It will be found that both classes of investigators
will arrive at the same results. Indeed it does
not matter where you start from, provided you
take what you believe to be the best moral force
in you. Some investigators may not be truly
conscious of a pure and genuine love, either for

God or humanity, though most persons profess
both. In that case, they must take the next
highest moral emotion they have, and work from
that ; but these experiments involve such terrible
ordeals, and imply such crushing sacrifices, that
it requires a tolerably high motive to carry you
through. We will assume that our investigator
starts with the view of developing a new and
hitherto undiscovered potency — his love for humanity.
His first discovery is that all the conditions
by which he is surrounded, and all the
other afi*ectional instincts of his nature, interfere
with his freedom of experiment. Then begin
his ordeals and his sacrifices. For instance, the
sentiment called Patriotism, being perhaps the
highest to which some can attain, and therefore
a good one for them to work from, is an obstacle
to the experimenter on the love of humanity ; he
finds that he must denationalise himself in feeling,
if not in act. He feels that he belongs to
no country, but the universe. So he next becomes
conscious that all family ties conflict with
the due development of the force he is attempting
to evolve. All the men and women in the world
become his brothers and sisters. The love of
wife, children, and so forth, though it is a moral

force to be duly developed, under an entirely-new
set of conditions, is too much tainted with,
the grosser natural instincts to be allowed to
coexist in the same medium of transmission with
the love of humanity, which, in fact, it antagonists
as embodying certain opposite or egotistical
forces. It is the elimination of these egotistical
forces from the organism which is so painful. Of
course it follows that if love of country and love
of family are to be set aside, in order for the evolution
into new and higher potencies of the love
either of God or humanity, or both, all the minor
egotistical emotions, such as love of rule, love of
fame, love of money, love of ease, — all forms, in
fact, of ambition, all capacities, every sensual
gratification which interferes with an absolute
concentration of the will on the evolution of the
force under experiment, — must be discarded."

But," I interrupted, '' ascetics have gone
through processes with their affections in all ages
such as you describe."

Never in search of truth, or for an unmixed
love of humanity. Of course, in experiments of
this kind, the nature of the motive, which is the
active agent with which the experiment is made,
is everything. If a man starts, not to find truth.

but with a credulous assumption that lie has
found it, based on no such evidence as I sago-est,
and his object in isolating himself is to save
what he calls his soul — instead of raising, by his
efforts, existing humanity to a higher level, his
efforts are vitiated at their source. He is not
evolving into higher conditions ; besides, I said
nothing about the man engaged in experimenting
on the forces contained in his internal spaces
becoming an ascetic. It is true that, at certain
stages of his experiments, he must live apart,
as he will become conscious of such powerful
antagonistic invading forces from the organisms
of his fellow-men, that until he has developed
these in himself to a point where he can resist
them effectually, he is likely to be brought into
greater suffering, thus produced, than he can
endure ; but this stage is only temporary — his
work lies among his fellow-men, as he can only
develop his love for humanity by living with it
and for it. He will not remain long investigating
and experimenting in solitude, before he will
arrive at certain striking; and encouraging; results,
which, however, I cannot allude to now, as
they are not susceptible of proof to those who
have not experienced them. When, leaving his

solitude, he comes out into the world for whose
benefit he is struggling, he will enter upon a new
and not less striking series of experiences, the
nature of which will reveal to him no less startling
secrets of his organism, and open up new
and altogether unexpected possibilities, and he
will then find himself able to dominate certain
forces in his fellow-men, to attract some, to repel
others, and more or less to sense the quality of
all. He then becomes conscious of the differences
which exist in the organic conditions of the
persons who surround him, and more especially
to perceive the character of the phenomena developed
in those who are said, in popular jargon,
to be ' of nervous temperament.' He begins to
understand the nature of the forces operating in
them, by virtue of the discoveries he has made
in the nature of those in his own organism, and
to induce others to enter upon the same experimental
processes. He will find that in each case
new phenomena are developed, conditioned on
the varied character of the moral forces, which
are in no two cases alike ; and as this occult
region opens to his instructed vision, and man
becomes a book, the hitherto dark pages of which
he has thus learnt to study, he perceives that it

contains the solution of those world - problems
wliicli have perplexed the ages, and which in
these early days of evolution are being revealed
to those who are prepared to dedicate their lives
to the service of humanity."

I guess." said Hannah, who had entered unobserved
during this speech, " that there's them
as has been making' this experiment, as you call
it, these many years, as ain't either philosophers,
nor scientists, nor theologians, and never heard
tell of the enthusiasm of humanity, much less of
the spaces round the molly cools. Well, they had
to make it — they was born so. Why, I allers
was that sensitive to forces — I didn't know what
they were — as I could seem to feel what other
people was feeling, 'specially some more than
others. I had to study on it my own way to
protect myself. Why, there's times when I go
into a sick-room, and the life seems to flow right
clear out me. Many and many's the time I've
cured aches and pains by rubbing them all out
of a body; and anybody else but me rubbing'
would seem to rub 'em into the same body, and
the same pain will come right into me, just as
like as not. Why, I begun to find I had a power

in me for lielpin' people, both in their bodies and
spirits, that was like a sacred gift ; and all my
life I have prayed that I might use that gift
right, and never to serve myself. Well, the
more I used it, the more it come ; and if I do
anything again a feeling' I have when it comes,
and hold back out of a natural feeling' when I feel
a body is a-drawin' the love out of me, it kinder
curdles in me like milk getting' sour. If I want
to keep in sound spiritual health myself, I am
bound to let it flow out, just as it has a mind to.
It's the Lord as knows His own ; and them as He
wants drawer, He draws. That's how I come to
help you in your trouble, my dearie," she said,
turning to me, " and that's how it is you come to
take such a comfort out of me ; and that's how we
come to feel so drawer together, him and me,"
she added, pointing to Mr Hetherington. '' Bless
you ! it's because it ain't ourselves we're a-workin'
for. Only it comes to him from experimenting',
and it comes to me nat'ral like, because I was
born so ; and you wouldn't feel his words auburn
into you like fire, and mine a-soothing of you
like mother love, if what he calls the spaces in
your molly cools wasn't already prepared. Bless

you ! it ain't no good saying' a word to them as
isn't prepared ; but them as is, they're bound to
hoe in the same row. There's no mistake, you're
just one of us, as your father was before you,
only he died before he come through ; but it's
him as has been working in you. I could tell
you things as I've heard and seen as none of
them philosophers' patent double-glass magnifiers
couldn't show 'em ; and that's so. It ain't no
good talking to me about imagination and hallucination,
and expect me to believe they ain't true.
They seem to think, if only they can find a word
that's long enough and they don't understand
themselves, it's an explanation. Poor fritters !
it's the explanation of the explanation as puzzles
'em. It ain't no more good a-scratching on the
outside of nature than it is to scratch on the outside
of the Bible, like the parsons do. It's the
inside as has got the life and the nourishment.
Dogmas is to religion what theory is to science.
They tell me the Eoman Catholics think, when
they take the Sacrament, they're eaten' flesh and
drinking' blood ; and that the philosophers say
we've come out of oysters. Well, now, them
things seem to me more like imagination than
some things I could tell as I've felt and seen,

and knows to be true by experience. Now there
ain't no experience in their dogmas or their
theories."

But, Hannah, suppose they were to ask you
in your turn to give an explanation of experience
? "

"Well, dearie, I should say what I think
some American has said afore : Experience is
the experience which experience has experienced.
They'll know what it is if they make the trial,
as Keithyy here has proposed to 'em ; but, laws !
they won't — don't you believe it. It costs too
much — given' up country, and wife and child,
and houses and lands, and all the rest of it, to
make an experiment for humanity, without knowing
but what it may fail in the end. Not if
they know it, my dearie — leastways not many of
'em. Here and there may be one, but they ain't
that kind of men. Generally speaking, them
spaces in the moUycools has got to be prepared
by a deal of suffering. It's suffering as does it.
Well, there's a deal of suffering coming' to the
world. Keithyy knows all about it. It ain't
possible to go deep into these things without
knowing about it. It's when the ship goes to
pieces, and the passengers is a-drownin', that they

look out for the plank of safety — not when she's
a-sailing in smooth water ; and it's a lifeboat
that them that studies the laws of life is now
preparing."

Hannah," said I, moved by an uncontrollable
impulse, and throwing my arms round her neck,
I am going to work at that lifeboat. I am
going to give my own life to help to build it,
cost what it may."

Of course you are, my dearie. You didn't
need to tell me that ; I felt it from the first day
I saw you, and so did he : that's why we three
was brought here. Things don't come like this
by chance. There's them we don't see as arranges
meeting's like these. You had to come where
you could be protected from them opposite forces
he was a-talking of, and our forces could combine
freely with yours to strengthen you before
you have to go back into the world."

But I scarcely seemed to hear what Hannah
was saying — could not tell why I was sobbing
so convulsively. It certainly was from a feeling
of joy and relief rather than of sorrow ; but the
foundations of my moral nature seemed to have
been stirred, barriers to have been broken down,
chasms bridged, darkness illuminated ; a revolution

of some sort had been effected, which took
the form of tears, because the expression of all
human emotion seems limited to tears or laughter,
but the former may express any number of variations
of that emotion. In fact I can best define
those tears to the faculty by saying they were
the exact opposite of " hysterical " ; and as every
doctor knows precisely what he means by that
word, he must know what its exact opposite must
be. I felt that the crisis of my life had arrived ;
that the vague questionings of my girlhood were
at last to be answered ; that the yearning aspirations
and unsatisfied longings which isolated me
from sympathy with my surroundings were to
be gratified ; that the burden of passionate pity
for the misery of the crushed and suffering portion
of my fellow-creatures, which had seemed
more than I could bear, was to be lifted ; and
that I could enter upon a life-long effort, sustained
by the hope that I might yet do service
in the world, and in that effort solve the problems
which till now had vexed my soul.

CHAPTER XX.

THE BARONESS MAKES A DISCLOSURE.

Robert Alderney was certainly inspired by
some good genius when lie discovered this wonderful
retreat, in which Hannah and I have so
successfully buried ourselves. Our cottage is
an ideal seclusion, hidden in the recesses of a
wooded glen, at the entrance to which, scarce
half a mile distant, is the little village of Cop-glendale.
It has been the home for many years
of the poor widow of a retired naval officer, who
was too glad to let it to us, as it stood, by the
week, while she paid a visit to a neighbour. I
have been wandering amid the narrow winding
lanes for a week past, with no fear of discovery,
either alone, or with Hannah or Mr Hetherington,
who has taken up his abode in the village inn ; and
went out by myself alone this morning to stroll

towards the village, in a more unsuspicious mood
than usual, when, on turning a corner, I suddenly
found myself face to face with Sark. The meeting
was so unexpected that my heart began to beat
violently, and a general vague presentiment of
coming trouble seemed to take possession of me.
I suppose he read my perturbation in my manner,
as with an effort of cordiality I advanced to greet
him ; for he said kindly, but with a certain embarrassment,
"I am afraid, Altera, that my unexpected
appearance is not altogether an agreeable
surprise." " Indeed I am very glad to see
you, though of course I am surprised," I replied.
Then Sark turned and walked by my side, as he
gave me an account of the commotion which had
been produced in society by my disappearance,
and of the paragraphs which had appeared in the
newspapers, which had suddenly given me the
notoriety I so earnestly sought to avoid, and of
the legal proceedings for my recovery threatened
by the Baron, and finally urged upon me the
necessity of preventing any public scandal, and
of putting an end to a situation which was calculated
to produce it. He told me, to my great
satisfaction, that he felt that he had completely
emancipated himself from the bondage of Mrs

VOL. II. c

Rhymer; expressed his deep regret that he
should have been the cause, in the first instance,
by having introduced her to me, of having forced
me into a false position ; and, to my unbounded
astonishment, ended by hoping that I would
allow him to make the only reparation in his
power, by accepting him in marriage. "This,
dear Altera," he concluded, " is a simple solution
of the whole difficulty. You will confer a lasting
obligation upon me ; you will escape the
ordeal which you dread, of being forced upon
London society, under auspices which are so
painful to you; you will be released from all
fear of persecution from unworthy or interested
suitors, or being sacrificed to the ambition of
your parents, who, I feel sure, will at once give
their consent, if I can only win yours." He
spoke with such delicacy, and at the same time
with so much tenderness, that for the moment
I was too much overcome by the unexpected
proposition, and by the cogency of the reasons
in favour of it, to make any answer. I hung
down my head, much agitated by what I felt
to be his generosity; for had he not confessed
to me his strong attachment for Stella? and I
think he mistook my silence for consent, for he

took my hand, and began a sentence with " My
darling," which I felt bound to stop ; for a new
and indefinable impression suddenly seemed to
overpower me that I no longer belonged absolutely
to myself, and that no worldly considerations
of expediency, or even of regard for Sark,
should for an instant be allowed to invade the
sanctity of those affections which I had solemnly
dedicated only the day before to the highest of
all services : and yet it seemed impossible to
explain this to him in any way which he could
understand. Fortunately the nature of his confidences
to me in Paris furnished me with the
escape from the dilemma I sought.

I feel all the more grateful for the generosity
of your osier. Lord Sark," I said, " because I do
not forget that in making it you are sacrificing
your own affections."

You give me too much credit," he replied.
I should perhaps have told you before what
I concealed — believe me, from no unworthy
motive — that Miss "Walton has no reason to fear
that she will ever be annoyed by my admiration
again."

There was a tone of pique not altogether unmingled
with what appeared to me contempt,

which surprised me, and I felt inclined to ask
for an explanation, and enter upon my friend's
defence, when I remembered that I should see
her in a day or two, and hear all I wanted from
her own lips. So I said, " I cannot now explain
to you, Sark, why it will be impossible for me
ever to entertain the thought of such a relationship
as you suggest." He was just going to
make some reply when I heard the sound of
wheels, and presently saw the lumbering one-horse
fly, which was the only vehicle that the
village could boast, and from the window of
which, evidently scanning the surroundings, protruded
the well-known head of my mother. She
stopped the fly as it overtook us, and with well-assumed
affectionate gaiety, laughingly exclaimed,
" Ah, naughty truant, have I found you ? "
and making Sark open the door, I found myself
in the maternal embrace. We walked up to the
cottage together, where Hannah, standing at the
door, was overwhelmed at the sight of my companions.
She received my mother with an aggressive
sniff" of condescension, and Sark with
unaffected cordiality ; and I took my mother to
my bedroom to take off* her things. She said
she would stay there for the present, as she did

not wish to lose time in explaining to me at once
the view which she and the Baron had determined
to take of my conduct.

I will not recur now, Altera," she said, " to
the impropriety of your conduct in leaving your
home ; nor am I even prepared to insist on your
making full reparation to Mrs Rhymer, and accepting
her intimacy as a friend, which would
have been your proper punishment. Richard
Muckle has most kindly offered to extricate us
from the dilemma by again expressing his readiness
to take you as his wife."

But, mamma, I thought Mr Muckle was in
love with Stella Walton," I said.

I do not pretend to know what may have
passed between him and Miss Walton, but he
has authorised me to say, that as you have never
fulfilled some promise you made him about some
commission in regard to Miss Walton, with
which he charged you, he now insists upon your
reverting to your old relations."

I am not aware of any old relations existing
between us," I replied, '' nor of his right to insist
upon anything. At all events, I have told you
before, nothing shall ever induce me to marry
him."

"What was Sark saying to you when I arrived
? " said my mother, abruptly changing the
subject.

He had just proposed to me, and I had just
refused him."

You refused him ! " she almost screamed.
"Silly girl; now you have deprived yourself of
your only chance of escape. Your fate is sealed,
Altera."

I don't understand you, mamma."

"God knows that I never intended that you
should," replied my mother, bitterly. " The
story of how Eichard Muckle has got us all in
his clutch is one which you alone have the power
to wring from me, and it rests with you to decide
whether you will now use that power, to the
shame and disgrace of your family, or save me a
confession which can do no good, and which you
of all persons will have the most reason amply
to regret."

I was at a loss how to reply to a speech so
enigmatical and mysterious. " Whatever your
secret may be," I said, " I never can regret its
disclosure so much as I should the necessity of
becoming Mr Muckle's wife."

"It is impossible for you to judge of that

while you remain in ignorance of it, — the result
of compelling me to make a full disclosure of all
the circumstances now known to Muckle alone,
will simply be to oblige you to marry him, with
an additional pang which I would fain spare you."

I cannot help now feeling that it would have
been better had I taken my mother's advice, and
allowed events to shape my fate, leaving the
mystery unsolved ; but the alternative of marring
a man who exercised this occult influence
over my destiny, and used his power with such
cruelty, was so revolting to me that I determined
to know the worst — the more especially as my
imagination failed altogether in conjecture upon
the subject, and my curiosity had become excited
and alarmed. So I said, " If I am to marry
Eichard Muckle, I would rather do so knowing
the secret which has thus given him the command
of my fate, however painful it may be, than
allow him the satisfaction of feeling he still possesses
a power which he would probably use to
coerce me at some later period."

Then listen," said my mother, with a glow of
malignant satisfaction stealing over her countenance
— as if she secretly rejoiced in the pain she
was about to inflict. " Listen, child, to a history

of fraud and deception, practised on an unsuspecting
woman by the man whose memory you
so dearly revere and cherish."

Stop ! " I almost shrieked, so utterly unexpected
was the quarter from which the blow was
coming. " Do you mean my father ? "

Who else should I mean ? " she replied boldly.
Now, do you want me to go on, and describe
the story of a false marriage, of a betrayed
woman, of a daughter who has no legal rights,
of crime, of revenge, and of accomplices who, as
husband and husband's partner, have hee and
her daughter in their power ? Do you want the
details of this twenty-year-old history ? because
time has not dimmed my memory — they are
incidents in a woman's life which she is not aj)t
to forget, even if they are not those which she is
apt to confide to a daughter. But then, you
know," my mother went on, with increased bitterness
and sarcasm in her tone, " our relations
have been very peculiar, — we have never understood
each other. As you are so much given to
philosophical speculation, when you have all the
particulars you will be able to construct a metaphysical
theory as to the reason why."

I scarcely heard the last part of my mother's

speech. A numbness seemed creeping over me
which threatened to paralyse all power of thought
or feeling;. I felt a vague consciousness that I
was endeavouring by a mental and moral effort
to realise that my father was a villain, but that
my faculties gave way in the strain of this
attempt to violate the most cherished instinct of
my nature. They refused to be coerced into a
belief so monstrous. Speech had become impossible
— but I stared at my mother with a dumb
incredulity which had a more powerful effect
upon her than anything I could have said ; for
the colour rushed to her face as I mechanically
held my eyes firmly fixed on hers, and then ebbed
away again, leaving her lips white and trembling.

'' Don't stare at me like that, child," she exclaimed
petulantly; "one would suppose you
were going out of your mind."

At this moment the expression of her face
changed to one of alarm, and she gazed so
fixedly at the door behind me that I involuntarily
turned round, and as I did so, heard a gentle
tap.

"Who can that be?" she said, and she
shivered with a spasm of emotion which I was
quite at a loss to account for ; but I was conscious

at the same time of a rush of vitality into my
own system which seemed completely to restore
me to myself.

"May I come in, my dearie?" said a voice
outside, and the door was gently pushed open,
and old Hannah glided in without waiting for
further permission.

Seemed as though you was a- wan ting me so
bad, I couldn't stay away from you any longer.
Lordy,' I says, ' my darling is in some kind of
trouble ; I feel her a-callin of me from her
innards,' I says, and I just come right away ; "
and Hannah brought a chair to my side, and
took my hand, and tenderly stroked my head,
exactly as if my mother was not in existence.
Indeed the Baroness had received a shock of
some kind, which had apparently quelled for the
time her proud spirit, for she remained silent
even when Hannah, putting her arm round my
waist, whispered in my ear, " You've got to come
along with me, my dearie," and led me from the
room. " Now you lie down quiet on my bed fora
little," she added ; " I've just got a word to say
to your mama," and she laid an emphasis of
indescribable scorn on the last word, and kissing
my forehead, moved swiftly away.

Curiously enough my mind did not revert to
its agony, — I dropped off to sleep before I had
time to recall the incidents of the scene which
had just terminated. When I awoke, I found
Hannah sitting by my bedside.

There, now, my dearie," she said, '^ your
mama and me has been fixing things. They
ain't near so bad as you think — only have a little
patience, and it'll come all right. What we want
is time, and I've got it."

Oh, Hannah," I said, the memory of all my
mother's revelations now rushing over me like a
flood, " what has my mother told you ? Do you
know the frightful position in which I am placed,
and the circumstances that have led to it ? "

Never you mind what I know, my dearie, —
the time ain't come for me to tell you that yet.
Things is mighty onsartin' in this world ; 'ain't
what I hear that I believes in, it's what I feels.
The outwards is very little account — I goes by
the innards. When oust the innards is got right
and it's terrible hard to get 'em right so as
they can be trusted, — you ain't got no call to try
and work yourself out of a tight place by making
calculations in your head. It's people that loves
themselves goes by their heads ; but people as

loves their God and their neighbours better than
themselves, they goes by their hearts. They
just go it blind, the way that love leads 'em ;
maybe it looks like as though it was again all
reason and commonsense — and ordinary folks
thinks them insane ; but laws, my dearie ! that
don't matter. People as goes by reason and
common-sense don't know anything about the
happiness that people have as goes by the love
that drives them afore it. Now you know what
you was a-settlin' the other day with Keithyy and
me, when he was explaining to you about the
molly cools. You just hang on to what you
decided to do then, and leave your mama and
that Muckle and the rest of 'em to the Higher
Powers. And don't you go to believing' anything
again the memory of your sainted papa. You
wait till things clears themselves."

But, Hannah, Mr Muckle threatens the most
fearful exposure if I do not give him an immediate
answer."

'let him threaten, my dear; it don't cost
much to threaten, but to carry out the threat
may cost a great deal. He thought your mama
had only to come here with that story to break
you down. But don't you break, — just seem to

bend a little, maybe so as to gain time. Meanwhile
I am a-going' to keep your mama here a few
days."

Keep mamma here ! " I exclaimed.

*' Well, I explained to her why I thought it
would be best for her to wait till tomorrow,
^vhen Stella and Mattie come, and perhaps when
they see her they'll explain why it is best for
her to go on staying," said Hannah, with a sly
twinkle in her eye. " In the meantime," she
added, "your mama has promised that she will
not allude to the subject again till they come.
So don't you think about it any more. You've
got a work to do in this world, child, and you
ain't a-going' to be sacrificed to that Muckle, anyhow
they can fix it. It's old Hannah says so,
and you'd better believe it."

I was so inexpressibly consoled and comforted
by this conversation, that it seemed as though I
had risen from some horrid nightmare. Hannah
had asked Sark and Keith Hetherington to stay
to dinner, and assumed the character of mistress
of the house with a quiet dignity and power
which more and more impressed me with the
remarkable qualities of her character. Her
strong originality seemed to have an inspiring

effect upon the gentlemen, who were both gifted
with singular powers of conversation, which, I
observed, was never suffered by Hannah to drop
to my mother's level. Indeed I had never seen
the Baroness so cowed and subdued by surrounding
influences as on the evening of the day when
she had swept down upon my retreat, flushed
with the premature consciousness of an easy
victory.

CHAPTER XXI.

STELLA COMES TO THE RESCUE.

On the day following the incident narrated by
Altera in the last chapter, the party at Beau-court
broke up. Sir George and Lady Adela
Washington went to Copley Grange, where they
found Sark, who had used his sister's house for
his base of operations when he made his descent
upon Copleydale ; and the two Californian girls
and Bob Alderney returned to the secluded retreat,
where Hannah and Altera were anxiously
awaiting their arrival.

It ain't no use," said the old lady to the
latter in anticipation of this event, " telling the
tells any particulars ; it's enough for them to
know that your mama wants to force you to
marry that Muckle, and that she mustn't resist
him on account of some secret hold as he has got

over her, and threatens all manner of ruin and
disgrace if he can't get his way. That's enough
for Stella and Mattie. Trust 'em for seen' a
way out of it. Give me Stella for getting' a body
out of a tight place when it comes to a pinch. I
used to think New England tells pretty spry,
but, my sakes ! California knocks the spots out
of 'em."

The Baroness had discreetly retired when the
fly drove up with the two young ladies and their
escort, and there was, therefore, nothing to check
the spontaneous effusiveness of the embraces
which they lavished upon Hannah and Altera,
much to the envy of Bob, who plaintively remarked,
after Mattie had nearly squeezed the
breath out of Miss Coffin —

Oh, Mattie, how I do wish I was Hannah ! "
I don't, you silly," replied the young lady ina
whisper which seemed quite to console him.
There, ask Altera if she'll allow you a cousin's
privilege — I don't like to see you left out in the
cold on this joyful occasion — and then go and
amuse yourself with Keith Hetherington ; we
want to go and talk secrets — don't we, Stella ? "

And they forthwith trooped to Hannah's bedroom
to exchange confidences.

Oil, Stella'' said Altera, " I have so much to
tell you ! Mamma is here."

Here ! " exclaimed both the girls at once, —
*' not in this house ? "

Yes ; we kept her here on purpose till you
arrived, because Hannah said you would be sure
to see a way out of the terrible dilemma in which
I am placed."

My dear," said Stella gravely, when she had
heard Altera s story, '' I have long known that
some possibility existed of such a demand being
made by Mr Muckle, but I supposed that the
escape from the difficulty had already presented
itself. Has not Lord Sark been here ? " she asked,
colouring slightly.

'eyes," said Altera, and her face seemed to
reflect the hue of her friend's. ''Oh, Stella, what
have you done to fiend him ? He said that you
need never fear again being troubled with his
admiration."

Didn't he say anything else ? " And Stella
smiled slily, but an almost imperceptible quiver
of her lip betrayed the effort of self-control which
she was exercising.

He asked me to marry him," said Altera in
an undertone. " I wouldn't betray his confidence,

VOL. II. D

but everything is so complicated, and I know
how true you all are — we must talk openly. He
once told me that he loved you, Stella — and I am
sure he does still, — and that you have refused
him. Can you wonder at the answer that I gave
him, even though he professed to care for you
no longer? Besides, I have decided never to
marry."

Wal," interrupted Hannah, " it don't quite
amount to that ; the fact is, me and Keithyy and
Altera was a-talking over matters generally,
and we all decided we luoukhit marry just yet.
Feared to us we'd got something more important
to do first. Didn't see our way clearly to adoption'
the bonds of matrimony. That's how it is.
Don't you press my darling' to think of her cousin
again her inner feeling's. He ain't no kind of a
husband for her. It's old Hannah as says it —
and you'd better believe it."

Stella looked quickly up at her old friend,
and a conflict of emotions seemed struggling in
the lovely countenance, which owed its principal
charm to the variety of expression of which it
was capable, and which, without losing its sweetness,
changed in character like some fair landscape
under the influence of the lights and shades

of a tropical sunset. "But yet you love him,
Altera ? " she asked, slowly.

As a cousin, yes ; but indeed I don't want to
marry him or any one. Oh, Stella, all I want is
to escape from being forced by the threats of
some terrible revelation, which will disgrace my
mother, from marrying Eichard Muckle."

What you want in the first instance," said
Mattie, " it appears to me, is time — to enable us
to find out what this secret is, and what it's
worth. From what I have seen of Mr Muckle,
he seems to me a gentleman capable of playing
a game of brag for very large stakes. Now, as
they say at poker, suppose we ^ Go him one better
' before we ' see ' him."

That's so," said Hannah, with a most approving
chuckle. " You don't waste your time in
talking' honey, but what you do say goes straight
to the mark. I expect Master Bobby has found
that out. What we need is time — to find things
out."

If that's all," said Stella, with a sigh of intense
relief, " I can ensure you that. You three
can gossip while I write a letter. I suppose we
had better not lose a post."

Now, silence," said that young lady, coming

SjiT^Of'^"^^''

back to the group after a few minutes, " and
listen to this : —

*" To Richard Muckle, Esq.

'Dear Sir, — In pursuance of the verbal
agreement arrived at between us in Paris on the
1st day of November last, by virtue of which we
entered into a provisional contract mutually to
bind ourselves to draw up schedules of our several
assets, both of real and personal property, together
with a full statement of our liabilities and indebtedness,
with a view to an ultimate matrimonial
alliance, I beg to state that I have prepared the
above schedule and list of effects, which I shall
be ready to submit to you as soon as the legal
formalities shall have been completed ; and I
have to request that you will inform me, at your
earliest convenience, whether you have complied
with your obligations in this matter, and are
prepared to carry out the terms of the understanding.


' I may add that I have made inquiries of
Miss Peto in regard to certain points affecting
your private character about which I was in
doubt, and that her report is entirely satisfactory.

— I beg to remain, dear sir, yours
respectfully, Stella "Walton.' "

There," said Stella, turning to Mattie ; " low
do you like having your name made use of in
that way ? If ever there was a forgery, that is
one. I wonder what the penal consequences will
be when I reveal to him that I am not Stella
Walton at all, but the almost penniless Mattie
Terrill?"

Not Stella "Walton at all ! " exclaimed Altera,
in amazement.

Oh, I forgot that, though you have been with
us so long, you have never been let into the
secret. Well, you must keep it, dear. ' My face
is my fortune, sir,' she said, — as whoever marries
me will find out some day."

*' I am quite bewildered," said poor Altera ;
your letter is as utterly incomprehensible as
this change in your personality is startling. Do
you mean to say that you once agreed to marry
Mr Muckle ? "

Just so ; provisionally, you know. I had a
sort of instinct it might turn out useful. One
never can have too many strings to one's bow,
and now you see how fortunate it was. I suppose

that as he lias never heard from me since,
he is ofFended, and come to the conclusion that I
was making a fool of him, and so has returned to
his first love."

But you don't really mean to marry him ? "
said Altera, who was too matter-of-fact to
follow the pseudo-heiress in the reckless extravagances
of her action. " Supposing hee is so
much in love with you that he holds you to the
bargain, even if you are penniless, then what
will you do ? "

Oh, borrow from Mattie, and swell my liabilities
to an alarming amount. His love will
never be so limitless but what I can surpass it
by my indebtedness, with such a bank as Mattie
to draw upon. Don't be alarmed, my dear ; there
is no danger of my ever becoming Mrs Muckle,
and I am quite determined that you never shall."

I think that letter will do," said Mattie.
Stella, you're a great soul, — you combine dash
with judgment in a degree which should qualify
you to become one of the great financial magnates
of the age."

I should require Muckle's conscience ; but
let us consider him disposed of for the moment.
What are we do with the Baroness ? "

I have been considering that point," said
Mattie. " We must take her with us to the
Dashingtons. Lady Adela will understand that
the best way to put an end to the family scandal
is to have the mother and daughter as her
guests ; and the Baroness will be so flattered,
that we can mould her conveniently to our
purposes in that aristocratic atmosphere."

Lady Adela is very anxious to make the
acquaintance of her new-found cousin, after all
we have told her of you, dear," added Stella,
and is coming to pay you a visit tomorrow,
when the whole matter can be satisfactorily
arranged. Where are you going, Mattie ? "

''To have a little private conversation with
Bob," replied that young lady, with the utmost
frankness. And this was what she said to Mr
Alderney, when she found him strolling with
Hetherington among the gooseberry-bushes of
the primitive garden, smoking a cigar, and had
called him away from his companion.

'bob, dear, things are getting a good deal
mixed. You must go off at once to Copley
Grange and help to straighten them. Your
cousin Adela is coming over here tomorrow,
at any rate, to invite Altera to spend next week

at the Grange. You must tell lier that the
Baroness is here — that there are reasons, which
we will explain, and which nearly concern Altera's
happiness, why the Baroness should be
invited too. Fortunately the Baron has been
suddenly called away to the Continent ; and you
must see Sark, who, I hope, you will still find
there, and implore him not to leave till we come.
Now I know that he'll say it is no fun staying
to meet two girls, both of whom have refused
him."

No more it is," said Bob. " I don't see how
I'm to get over that."

"It is he who has to get over it — not you,
stupid. Your turn will come when you're refused.
Don't put ridiculous ideas of that sort
into my head, or I may act upon them."

"Well, but if they did refuse him, how am I
to persuade him to meet them again ? "

Oh, say that they didn't, — that he was mistaken,
— that girls never know their own minds ;
in fact, invent any libel on the sex you like,
only persuade him to try again, or we shall behaving
hearts broken, and Mrs Rhymer triumphant,
and Sark once more a slave to that woman.
Just think. Bob, if you had a Mrs Rhymer somewhere,

and by some stupid mistake I drove you
off to her ! " And the bare idea so moved poor
Mattie, that her eyes filled with tears, which
gave Bob the best opportunity of consoling her
that he had enjoyed for a long time ; and he
started on his mission much refreshed in spirit,
and determined to exert his diplomatic talents to
the utmost in the cause of youth and beauty.

Meantime Mattie thought the opportunity a
good one to have a little private conversation
with Hetherington, who had discreetly retired
during the foregoing conversation, as she strongly
suspected that he was neither an ignorant nor
totally disinterested observer of the events which
had been transpiring. And she was anxious to
ascertain the view he took of them, and the state
of his feelings generally.

CHAPTER Exit.

MATTIE IN AN INQUIRING MOOD.

You have had two unexpected visitors here
during the last day or two," Mattie said, when
she joined Hetherington, '' and they seem to
have thrown our poor Altera into a sad state
of perplexity."

I have avoided speaking to her on the subject,"
he replied ; " her own instinct of right is
too powerful to let her go very far astray, however
severe the pressure may be. She has made
up her mind to take her own view of her duties
in life irrespective of public opinion, and suffering
is sure to come sooner or later to whomsoever
ventures on such a course."

Why, what a gloomy view you take of life,
Keith ! Do you mean to say that the attempt
to do right is sure to bring suffering ? "

Not the attempt — the doing it ; and that
only depends upon the standard aimed at. The
doing right according to the popular standard,
as a rule, so far from bringing suffering, brings
popularity ; but the popular standard is a very
low one, and framed to meet the demands of
society. Just think what a mess people would
get into if there were no standard of right at
all ! But it is as dangerous to pitch your standard
too high as too low. He who practised the
highest morality the world ever had presented
to it, was crucified between two men who practised
the lowest ; and His fate seemed to have
served as a warning to those who call themselves
by His name, if we may judge by the difference
which exists between His preaching and their
practice."

"But, Keith, I think your judgment is rather
harsh. I am sure there are plenty of good people
in society who sincerely try to follow the teaching
of Christ, and who are all the more respected
for it."

Oh, the world allows them to try, provided
they don't succeed; it feels rather consoled by
their failures. If the best people try and fail,
they say it is because the standard is too high

to be practicable — evidently an ideal one, and
impossible in literal fact ; so the ordinary mortal
gives up the superhuman effort, and accepts
things as they are with a conscience all the
more at ease. And, in one sense, they are
right. It is an impossible standard, except with
a reconstructed society ; and in order to reconstruct
society, you must revolutionise it. Hence
any attempt at radical reform necessarily brings
you into collision with it. So long as the
churches are content to form part of a social
system, based on a compromise between the
altruistic morality of Christ and the selfish
morality of the world, the reformer must expect
persecution from the quarter on which he should
rely for support."

"But if it is hopeless, why do you wish to
enlist Altera in so futile an enterprise ? "

I don't say it is hopeless, except for the
isolated individual. On the contrary, the religious
inconsistencies of Christendom are pressing
themselves so forcibly on the more enlightened
minds and quickened consciences of the
present day, that we see ourselves involved ina
reaction against the popular theology, which,
unfortunately, finds its expression in materialism,

agnosticism, positivism, and other philosophical
attempts at the solution of the social
and moral problem, — predestined to failure sofar
as the heart-needs of humanity are concerned,
but all evidencing a progress in the moral consciousness
of that same humanity, which demands
satisfaction."

"Then you wish me to understand, Keith,
that the demand of humanity for a higher
moral standard of life — which Christianity,
materialism, agnosticism, positivism, and all the
other 'isms' fail to satisfy — may be met by
some system of ethics which you propose to
inaugurate ? "

Pardon me ; I say that humanity demands
a morality which is impossible without social
reconstruction. I deny that the popular theology
and true Christianity are synonymous, sofar
as their essential morality in their application
to daily life is concerned ; and I maintain
that, in order to substitute the Christian standard
of morals for the popular one, you must
reconstruct society. In the degree in which this
conviction forces itself upon many minds will a
combined attempt become possible : without a combined
attempt, any practical result is hopeless."

Well, then' said Mattie, " it resolves itself
into the one question, How do you mean to
reconstruct society ? "

'that is exactly the question into which it
does resolve itself, and which I am fully prepared
to discuss with those who are willing to
admit that enlightened selfishness is not the
basis upon which society should be constituted,
and who are ready to substitute for it that
principle of unflinching altruism which is the
foundation of pure Christianity."

Then you would only co-operate with Christians
? "

On the contrary. Nearly all the best Christians
I know do not call themselves by that
name. I only use the term as applying to the
ethical system of Christ — as the one theoretically
the most familiar to the whole civilised world.
I would co-operate with all who were prepared
to live for the highest moral ideal, at any
sacrifice of wealth, fame, ties of family or of
country, and who would form a social nucleus
where such an attempt would be possible."

Irrespective of their belief in a God? Supposing,
for instance, that an agnostic were to
wish to join you, would you admit him?"

"Most certainly; for how could an agnostic
know till lie tried a liigiier life than is possible
to him in his present surroundings, what new
faculties might not develop within him ? The
theologian who, embedded in a selfish social system,
says, ' I know with my limited faculties that
there is a God,' may be as wrong in his appreciation
of the nature of that Being; as the ag-gnostic
who says, ' I know that you have no faculties,
and never can have any faculties for knowing
whether there be one.' The one believes in a
Deity of his own imagining, and conditioned on
his theological and social environment ; and the
other believes in none at all. Who can say
that, placed under totally new moral conditions,
higher than any which have hitherto been attempted
in actual realisation, new and higher
spiritual faculties might not be evoked, which
should reveal to both a new and unsuspected
Deity ? The theologian has no more right to
say that the faculties of man have attained to
their fullest capacity for apprehending the Deity,
than the scientist has to say that there is a
physical limit to his observation of matter, and
that he has reached it. Why these men who
attribute our existing faculties to a process of

evolution should be the first to limit that process
to the past, and deny that we are capable
of morally and materially continuing to evolve,
has always been a mystery to me. But the law
of the evolution which they themselves evoke
will be their salvation; and in the degree in
which they prosecute their search after truth
from the purest and the loftiest motives, must
they evolve towards their God."

And so," said Mattie, with a smile, " Altera
has fairly entered upon the new evolutionary
process."

She has unconsciously been struggling in
the right direction from her childhood, like your
own good old Hannah, Mattie ; and I think you
must yourself admit that her intuitive faculties
are developed to a very remarkable degree."

"So, then, the sum and substance of it all is,
that society is to be reconstructed, on an altruistic
basis, by persons undergoing an evolutionary
process, through efforts of self-sacrifice ;
and that you and Hannah and Altera are to
inaugurate this great work."

Not quite so. I am happy to say there are
some hundreds consciously preparing themselves
for this work ; but it is evident that the process

is a slow one. The united effort must depend
upon the progress made by each individual ; and
it is only when a sufficient number have passed
through experiences and attained a sufficient
development for the estimation of new results,
that the work can be said to have fairly commenced."


What is the nature of these experiences, and
of the results ? " asked Mattie.

There you ask a question to which I am not
at liberty to reply. I hope you will not think
me rude, but I could no more describe to you
the experiments or the results, than I could
discourse to a New Zealander on the laws of
electricity, or attempt to make him understand
the nature of their action. If, when Watt saw
the lid of the kettle tremble under the power
of the compressed steam, he had predicted the
mechanical and social revolution which would
result from his new-found force, he would have
talked to deaf ears, and been counted a lunatic.
If we have begun to find that our organisms can
be made to tremble beneath the action of forces
far more pregnant with moral possibilities than
steam and electricity have been with material
resides, it is not while we are learning the laws

VOL. II. E

by wliicli they are governed that we can discourse
upon them to the ignorant and inquisitive.
There's an okl Scotch proverb that
rules and bairns should see half-dune work.'
The work has been preached to long enough ;
it wants new moral phenomena, not new theological
dogmas, or philosophical speculations.
But it is not while these phenomena are in
process of development that we can undertake
to explain them ; they must be tested, like all
great discoveries, by their results. Meantime,
we are contented to work on in silence and
obscurity in our laboratory of moral experiment,
craving only the one boon, which of
all others the world is the least disposed to
grant, — that it will mind its own business,
and leave us in peace to follow what we believe
to be ours."

Yes ; but if, as you say, in order to carry
out your moral experiments, you are compelled
to place yourselves in an antagonistic attitude
to society, you cannot be surprised if it considers
that a corresponding attitude of hostility
is its business. Supposing a man knew that
in the retirement of a chemical laboratory you
were constructing an explosive machine with

which to blow up his house, he might find it
difficult to believe that you were only actuated
by motives of philanthropy, and very naturally
wish to interfere with you."

Society in Jerusalem no doubt laboured
under the same misapprehension when, moved
by an instinct of self-preservation, it murdered
Christ nineteen hundred years ago," retorted
Hetherington. " It remains to be seen whether
the same spiritual forces which were concentrated
in a single individual, and which were
so powerful then as to produce a moral convulsion,
are destined a second time to succumb
to the social collision, when they are applied
under new and more powerful conditions. Whatever
view may be taken of the personality of
Christ, it is impossible to deny that, as a moral
phenomenon, He was unsurpassed in the religious
history of the world ; impossible also to
deny, judging by analogy in nature, the probability
of a recurrence of a similar manifestation
of concentrated spiritual power, though
it may take a different and more commanding
expression."

Why, I do believe," exclaimed Mattie, " that
if I were to twist all you have said into orthodox

language, I could make you out to be an ordinary
Christian, expressing your belief in the Second
Coming ! "

'' I would rather that you let any such attempt
alone, Mattie. And now to come back
to the subject of our communication. You see
why I do not interfere with Altera ; there are
reasons why it is best for me, at all events,
to let her work her way through her worldly
dilemmas without my assistance. That is no
reason, however, why you and our good friends
here should not give her all the aid and comfort
in your power."

Well, Lady Adela Washington is coming
over to invite her, and, I hope, the Baroness,
to the Grange tomorrow; and, I think, perhaps
Sark will come too."

You need not expect Sark," returned Keith,
*' for I met him at the station this morning as I
was walking out here from the village. He told
me he had received a telegram from the secretary
of some company, requiring his presence in London
immediately on business of importance. You
ladies have all been so busy with your private
affairs that I have not had an opportunity of
delivering the message of farewell with which

he charged me. He told me to tell Altera,
however, that he would write his adieux."

"Oh, Keith, don't you see that it's all a plot
of that horrid Rhymer to get him back again into
her clutches, and that Mr Muckle is her accomplice
? And yet you can stand there with your
hands in your pockets, and let things go their
own way, and get more complicated than ever,"
and impulsive little Mattie wrung her hands
in despair.

I don't see wdiat I could possibly do even by
getting excited."

There is ever so much to be done ; but you
men are so unsatisfactory, and get so easily
huffed, and twist everybody's affections up into
such a snarl, there is no unwinding them. Look
straight into my eyes," she added, after a perplexed
pause, " and answer me truly. I would
not ask such a question except under the pressure
of necessity. Now, Keith Hetherington, I solemnly
ask you, under the seal of the strictest
confidence, are you in love with anybody ? "

Loving and being; in love mean the same
thing, I suppose ? "

Of course they are."

Well, then, I love humanity as a whole ; and

of course, I am in love with all the several hints
that go to make it uj)."

That means that you can't honestly say no,
but don't choose to say yes."

It means that I am outside of the complications
which perplex you, Mattie ; but I none
the less sympathise in your desire to help your
friends. Perhaps the best way I can prove it
is by following Sark to town."

Oh, I wish you would ! " she exclaimed. " He'll
certainly get into mischief in his present frame of
mind, unless somebody goes to look after him,
and try and bring him back. Keith, I would send
Bob, only — hem — he's so useful here; but just
come in first and deliver your message, and then
say you are also obliged to run up to London fora
day or two, but you need not tell them why
you are going."

Dear me," mused Mattie, as she followed
Hetherington into the house, "I wonder why
people can't manage their love-affairs as simply
as Bob and I do ! But I don't suppose mine
would have been so simple if I had remained
the heiress."

CHAPTER XXIII.

MOIIAL AND CHEMICAL EXPLOSIVES.

Mattie was not far wrong in her divination of
the origin of the telegram which Sark had received.
Nor was Mrs Rhymer altogether such a
novice in finance as Mr Muckle took her for on
the occasion when he first unfolded to her in
Paris the process by which Sark and his co-directors
were to be extricated from the equivocal
position in which they had become involved,
through sundry irregularities in the management
of the company, which it is not necessary to
enter into here. She was, moreover, a woman
to whom revenge was sweeter than riches, and it
therefore naturally occurred to her that it would
be more soothing to her feelings materially to
ruin and morally to disgrace the man she loved,
even at the sacrifice of her own pocket, than

allow him to escape from her thraldom and bestow
his affections upon a rival. It was sometimes
said of Mrs Rhymer, by those who had the
advantage of knowing that lady the most intimately,
that whatever her faults might be, —
in spite of her frivolity, her social audacity, her
flirtations, and her cunning, she "had a heart,"
that she was a woman capable of a grande
passion ; and her reputation in this regard getting
noised abroad, rendered her doubly attractive to
men who are, as a rule, almost as much repelled
by feminine volcanoes in a perpetual state of
active eruption, as by volcanoes which are extinct,
ill which the fires, such as they were, are
dead. But a slumbering volcano, concealing
under a tranquil surface untold potencies of
suppressed explosion and flame, which can only
be evoked under a special influence, is an incentive
which rarely fails to excite the vanity
of the male sex, and often becomes a force all-powerful
to hold them when once captured.
Mrs Rhymer loved admiration too much not to
flirt, but she was conscious that she possessed
passions, the violence of which almost alarmed
her, and which she was, therefore, at the greatest
possible pains to conceal and control. No art

can, however, prevent the subtle force — call it
magnetism or what you will — from exercising
its power of attraction ; and hence Mrs Rhymer
was always surrounded by admirers instinctively
sensitive to the dormant fire, which all their
skill failed to kindle into flame. It was not
until Sark had been drawn into the magic circle
that the necessary fuel was supplied, and that the
slumbering embers could no longer be quenched ;
and she became a prey to emotions, for the
violence and consequences of which she held
Sark responsible. She was mortified with herself
for having, as she expressed it, " lost her heart "
to Sark, and still more angry with him for having
won it. The only consolation she derived
for being no longer free herself to play havoc
with the affections of others, was in the feeling
that she had an absolute right over the freedom
of her lover. He, at all events, must be made
to pay the penalty of her weakness. She had
never wanted to fall in love with him. She had
merely intended that he should fall in love with
her, and dangle in the chain of her adorers — in
fact, be another trophy added to the collection
already upon her chatelaine. So she had a
grievance against her lover in that she loved

him, and became morbid in lier jealousy, and
exacting; in bis allegiance. It was not until a
purer and bigger sentiment than Mrs Rhymer
was capable of inspiring, bad begun to steal
into Sark's breast, that the yoke became intolerable
to him ; and just in proportion as be bad
worn it submissively, was be now in a mood
to resent its pressure. Mrs Rhymer, however,
still brooding over the humiliation of baying
ever loved, followed by the mortification of having
lost, devoted ber energies to devising plans
of revenge ; for it is the peculiarity of an
egoistic passion of this description, wbicli those
wbo feel it call " love," that it mingles with and
finally merges altogether into bate. Having in
its origin been an absolutely selfish instinct, and
in its essence the exact opposite of what pure
love should be, it requires but the necessary pressure
to reveal its true character — and yet, curiously
enough, Mrs Rhymer, all the while lie was
plotting bis ruin, imagined that sbe loved Sark
more than ever — and this led ber to perceive
that sbe would never regain bis affection by ruining
bim, unless sbe could conceal her handiwork ;
but to disgrace him, to render him desperate,
and then to hold out sheltering and consoling

arms, and afFectionately to rivet the yoke upon
this neck again more tightly than before, this
woukl be at once her revenge and her triumph.
It was under the influence of these motives that
she determined to defeat the combination to
which Muckle had made her a party in Paris,
and which was to save the Board, of which Sark
was chairman, from exposure.

Mrs Rhymer bent on business was a very
different-looking woman in her external appearance
from Mrs Rhymer bent on pleasure, and a
chance acquaintance might be excused for not
recognising; at a glance the demure little woman

o o o

dressed in black who was taking a ticket for the
City by the underground railway, as the brilliant
apparition which dazzled all beholders at the last
fashionable garden-party, and secured her costume
a description in the journals which devote themselves
to the chiffons of professional beauties.
There happened to be a passenger, however, by
the same train, who had never beheld her on
those occasions of social triumph, and who,
seated alone in the carriage into which she
stepped, apparently found no difficulty in her
identification.

Why, Polly," exclaimed this individual, " can

I believe my eyes I Now this is what I call a
rare piece of luck."

Mrs Rhymer started, flushed, threw up her veil,
and exclaimed —

Terence Dunleavy ! "

Then recovering her self-possession, she held
out her hand, and added, with a most engaging
frankness —

Why, I had no idea you were on this side of
the Atlantic ; when did you arrive ? "

Only yesterday ; and to think that the first
person I meet should be you 1 I take it as a good
omen, Polly. Why, it is a matter of five years
since I saw you last, and you are looking younger
than ever."

The speaker was a good-looking man of about
five-and-forty, with his whiskers and moustaches
shaved, leaving only what the Americans call a
goatee," of considerable dimensions. His eyes
were blue, clear, and penetrating ; his nose slightly
hooked ; and were it not for a somewhat sinister
expression about the corners of his mouth, his
general appearance would have been prepossessing;.
He wore a travelling suit and a wide-awake
hat ; and there was an air of self-confidence almost
amounting to recklessness, which was too aggressive

to be the manner of a gentleman. It was
rather the defiant attitude of a man who felt
that what he mio;ht lack in social breeding; he
would make good by force of will, audacity, and
mother-wit.

What a mark you've been making in the
fashionable world, Polly ! I was talking to Ned
about it not three months ago. He's coin' well,
is Ned, I tell you."

Still at the old trade ? " asked Mrs Rhymer.

Well, it's not a trade to leave as things are
going. His business is increasing every day,
and is bound to increase. I am a sort of agent
for him over here — and for others," he added
significantly, after a pause. " Do you remember,"
he went on, " how we used to talk over
politics in old days, and what a little revolutionist
you were ? You and I used always to side
together in those arguments we had against Ned.
The worst of Ned is he lacks principle. He'd as
soon sell a torpedo to an emperor as he would a
dynamite clock to — you know who. If it wasn't
for Ned's powers of invention we'd have nothing
more to do with him. That was why we split
the partnership. I said, ' Ned,' says I, ' it goes
against my conscience to invent all kinds of

weapons to be used in regular warfare, maybe
against the down-trodden classes of the world.
The market is getting; bis; enough to sell to the
regular societies, and make a good thing too.'
Terry,' he said, ' I don't hold by politics. I'm
in the explosive business, generally, but it ain't
no concern of mine who gets blown up. I've got
no particular sympathies. I look for the demand,
and I try to meet it in the fair way of trade.' So
we dissolved partnership), and I went in with another
chap, to work on some kind of a principle,
but Ned was all the time cutting under us by
bringing out some new contrivance — he's great
on electricity, Ned is. So we — the S. F., that is
agreed that he was to work for us, and I would
be his agent for the societies. Then he's got
another agent that goes round to all the Governments
; but he has a deal of trouble with them
on account of their having all kinds of rules about
what's fair in war, which we haven't got. He's
worked out a system of land torpedoes, to be fired
by electricity, so that you can blow up whole
regiments at a time without any regular mining ;
but he says he don't think he can get it accepted
a bit more than his explosive bullets. Well, I
don't see the logic of it myself. Provided your

ball is as big as your head, you may burst it ; but
if it's only as big as a marble you mayn't. Provided
you want to blow up a ship, with five hundred
men on board, you may; but if you want to
blow up a regiment on shore, you mayn't, except
according to rule ; but it is all so much the better
for us when we come to fight them. We go in
for killing our enemies anyhow, not according to
any particular rules. When once you admit that
it's a legitimate act of war to kill your enemy, I
want to know where you are to look for the rules
as to how you are to kill them — not in the Bible,
I guess."

No, indeed," assented Mrs Rhymer ; " it's a
dreadful alternative. But my sympathies are
all with those who bring wars to the speediest
conclusion by the most rapid slaughter, especially
if it is to result in the relief of the
oppressed."

That's so," said her companion. " Well ita
great business, this explosive material and infernal
machine business, — and only, you may
say, in it's infancy. There's no saying what a
future may not be before it ; and Ned's got the
inside track of it — he'll make his fortune sure.
I've got a packet of envelopes in that valise, as a

sample ; every one of em's bound to blow up the
face of the man that opens them."

Dear me ! " said Mrs Rhymer, looking with
no little alarm at the rack overhead ; " and what
else are you doing besides dealing in explosives ?"

Just as inquisitive as ever, — eh, Polly ? but
you were always true to your pals. You don't
suppose I can stand by and see what's going on
in my own country without lending a helping
hand. Why, I've been in the Fenian business
pretty near fifteen years."

Well, but I thought your own country was
America."

So it is, but my parents were born in Ireland.
And what's the use of been' an American citizen,
and having American protection, except to do
the work the Irish don't dare to do for themselves,
and couldn't do if they did dare ? Why,
not only Ireland, but the whole of Europe, is like
a great powder-magazine, — and it's boys like me
that carry the sparks that are to blow it up ; but
we must have a place to fire from, and run to intime
of danger. God bless the Stars and Stripes,
they're a great institution."

Well, Terence," said Mrs Rhymer, — for by
this time they had reached their destination, —

'* you must come and see me. Here is my address ;
and send me a line first, telling me when to expect
you, so that I may be sure to be at home."

And able to tell everybody else you're out,
eh ? " Dunleavy added, with a laugh. " Well, I
am not proud. I don't want to meet any of
your grand acquaintances, at least not that way.
Good-bye ; I'll write and tell Ned that I've seen
you""

I think I shall have to write myself," ruminated
Mrs Rhymer, as she wended her way to the
neighbourhood of Austin Friars and Townhouse
Yard. " I must certainly prevent Ned from
coming over here without giving me warning.
I wonder what his address is. I must find out
from Terence. I wish Ned would blow himself
up with his own materials," she added spitefully,
as she scanned the names on the door-frames
for that of the young stockbroker of
whom Lysper has already made mention, and
whose worship of her charms rendered him a
fitting instrument for the service she was about
to require of him.

Young Casseroll, who was distantly connected
with the aristocracy, and enjoyed a certain social
position at the West End, was transported with

VOL. IL F

delight when the bright apparition burst upon his
dingy chamber, and being an intelligent young
man, and well versed in the Joint-stock Companies
Acts, he apprehended at a glance the
position in which the directors of the Universal
Scintillator Company had placed themselves, and
the nature of the transfer in process of completion,
with the combination represented by Cinderella
& Muckle, and perceived how easy it would be
to excite such alarm and suspicion among discontented
shareholders as should precipitate a crisis
in the affairs of the Company — an operation facile
of accomplishment, as there are always rebellious
spirits to be found, anxious to acquire notoriety
and become directors themselves, who are ready
to start a movement of this sort, and by the
circulation of pamphlets among the shareholders,
and letters in the City articles of the newspapers,
to head an opposition which becomes the terror
and the torment of the unhappy Board.

Dear Mr CasseroU," said Mrs Rhymer, in her
most winning tones, " I am telling you all this
in the strictest confidence. I would not for the
world, as you will readily understand, do anything
to injure Lord Sark, but you know how
ignorant he is of business ; and when I found

he had placed himself unreservedly in the hands
of such able, and I suppose I may say, between
ourselves, such unscrupulous financiers as Baron
Grrandesella and Mr Muckle, I thought it time
to take the advice of an experienced friend.
I should so much rather that Lord Sark was
ruined in purse than disgraced in reputation.
Of course, as a woman, I know nothing of these
matters, but I do think some steps should be
taken to prevent these negotiations going any
further."

So far as I understand the position of affairs,"
observed CasseroU, 'the Board, of which Lord
Sark is chairman, is in this dilemma. The transaction
which is in contemplation with the new
company, represented by Grandesella, is in itself
a questionable one ; but if it turns out financially
a success, it will probably never be inquired into,
and the Board may ultimately not only escape
from their present difficulty, but gain in reputation.
If, unfortunately, it should not turn out a
success, or if some inquisitive shareholder insists
upon an inquiry, — and I agree with you that
Grandesella & Muckle are most unsafe men to
act with, and do not enjoy the highest possible
reputation, — then the results might be more disastrous

than if the transfer had never taken
place. On the other hand, if it does not take
place, the very next general meeting of the
Company may disclose a state of affairs which
cannot fail to reflect the greatest discredit on
all concerned, and may possibly lead to the
liquidation of the Company. It is too late now
for Lord Sark to retire from the Board. His
only course is to carry through his negotiations
to the end; or if that — owing to a rebellion
among the shareholders — becomes impossible,
by the sacrifice of his own private property, if
he has any, to supply such funds as shall make
a balance-sheet that may satisfy the auditors."

Oh," said Mrs Rhymer, " surely that will bethe
honourable course; the thing of all others
to save Lord Sark's own reputation is evidently,
at all hazards, even by exciting the shareholders
to a danger of their position if necessary, to put
a stop to his negotiations with Grandesella."

Poor Sark has clearly not been to blame,
except in trusting the manager and secretary,
and probably one of his own colleagues, who,
from what I hear, has been the inspiring genius
of the Company ; but I doubt whether, if he was
sold up tomorrow, he could meet the necessities

of the case. However," added Casseroll, playing
with a paper-cutter, " I think we shall best
serve the cause of financial morality by forcing
things to a head, and I happen to know just
the man among the shareholders who will lead
the movement. I quite appreciate the motives
by which you have been actuated, Mrs Rhymer ;
and if you leave the matter in my hands, and
say nothing about it, I will see what can be
done."

Casseroll had been evolving a scheme of his
own during this conversation, by which he saw
his way to turning the troubles of the Board,
of which Lord Sark had been the victim, to his
own profitable account, and shrewdly suspected
that his fair visitor was not altogether so disinterested
as she wished to appear, — in fact, he
thought the occasion not unfavourable for urging
his own suit, and the beauty was too anxious
to propitiate him not to osier him some encouragement.


^' Alt revive dear Mr Casseroll," she said, after
some tender passages had occurred which are not
important to our narrative ; " mind you come and
see me soon, to report progress, as they say in
the House of Commons."

The results of Mr CasseroU's energy made
themselves apparent in a few days, and the
enterprising manager became so alarmed at the
turn affairs were taking, that he consulted the
most active director as to the necessity of summoning
an extraordinary meeting of the Board ;
and an urgent telegram was sent to Lord Sark at
Beaufort, which only reached the Castle after
he had left. Lady Adela, however, being in the
secret of his whereabouts, undertook to forward it
to him ; and he found it waiting for him at Copley
Grange on his return from dinner on the evening
of the eventful day when he had placed his heart
and coronet at the disposal of Altera. As maybe
imagined, he regarded it as a welcome excuse
for disappearing from a scene where his efforts
had proved unavailing to make his cousin the
only reparation in his power, and where a meeting
with Stella in her company could only lead
to embarrassment ; and he therefore wrote Altera
a note to say that he had suddenly been
called to London on important business, and
intrusted Hetherington on the morning of his
departure with a similar message. If, however,
Mattie had known how resolutely Lord Sark, on
his way to town, was steeling himself against the

machinations and the charms of the Rhymer, she
needed not have undergone the paroxysm of
alarm which she displayed when she heard the
news. He had reacted, rather, let ns say, from
his weakness, than from his passion, for his
enslaver. He was able now to look back with
wonder at his own infatuation ; and he felt that
the only thing he had to guard against was lest
his compassion — for he gave her credit for a real
sentiment of affection for him — should lead him
to compromise, where firmness was his only
safety. At all events, he saw no reason why
he should let her know of his arrival in town ;
and when he attended the meeting of the Board
on the following day, he little suspected that the
result of their deliberations was known to Mrs
Rhymer a few hours afterwards ; for the wily
Casseroll had secured an accomplice to his
schemes among the directors, and the opposition
was through his agency kept duly informed
of the decision arrived at by the Board, which
Casseroll, only too glad to have a legitimate
excuse for calling at the bijou residence, where
Mrs Rhymer received him in a most bewitching
deshabille and in a dim religious light, duly reported
to that lady. She had no sooner heard

what he had to say, and impatiently listened to
the expression of his eternal devotion, than she
despatched by a commissionaire a note to Sark,
couched in that language of peremptory complaint
which the sex is so skilled in adopting
under certain circumstances.

Chapter Xxii.

MR Muckle PAYS A VISIT.

Mr Muckle was sitting in his office pondering.
There was an open letter on his desk, and an open
penknife in his hand, and his attention seemed
divided between the former and his nails. Occasionally
a particular nail apparently irritated his
nerves, and he pared viciously. Then it suddenly
ceased to interest him ; his hand dropped
languidly, the lines in his face softened, his eyes
turned from his fingers to the open page before
him, from thence to. the ceiling, and he sighed.
It was not often that sentiment invaded the
business sanctuary of Grandesella & Muckle, and
even now the emotions which agitated the breast
of the junior partner were not altogether free
from a commercial taint ; but he felt, nevertheless,
that his moral equilibrium was, so to speak,

upset. The document before him could scarcely
be called a love-letter, and yet it was not one
which came within the ordinary routine of
commercial transactions, excepting in the sense
that it might fairly be considered an *' esteemed
favour." Mr Muckle felt, that while in practice
it was perfectly legitimate to mix up affairs of
the heart and the pocket — and that, in fact, social
life would be impossible upon any other basis —
yet that the crudeness with which Stella Walton
had associated finance with love savoured somewhat
of indelicacy on the part of that young lady.
In fact, at the moments when he cut his nails
viciously, he was a prey to the horrible suspicion
that he was being " chaffed," and that the beautiful
American heiress was trifling with his affections,
to see how much he would stand. But
then his vanity would come to the rescue. '' After
all," thought Mr Muckle, " she is an American ; it
may be the way that marriages are contracted in
the wilds of Nevada ; it certainly is not our way
of doing things, but her immense fortune has
probably suggested to her a line of her own.
She may be in earnest," — and he recalled the
tender glances, and I may even without a breach
of confidence add, gentle pressures, with which

the supposed heiress had favoured him when she
was in a particularly mischievous mood, and in
especial that never-to-be-forgotten evening at
MacAlpine's, when, carried away by the violence
of his emotion, he had given full vent to his
pent-up feelings ; and at this point he cast his
eyes upwards and sighed. He had expected to
hear from her since then; and when accounts
reached him through MacAlpine and his friend
Lauriola of Sark's attentions to her at Beaufort,
and rumours of an approaching alliance between
the Californian girl and the English nobleman had
actually gone the round of the society papers, he
had reacted into a mood of indignation, and had
despatched the Baroness on her mission to Cop-glendale,
in the hope that it might bring matters
to a head one way or the other. And so far he
had apparently been successful; it was evident
from Stella's letter, that Altera, to avoid the fate
with which he threatened her, had satisfied all
Stella's doubts as to his domestic virtues, and that
the latter young lady, true to her engagement,
had now written to inform him, in her own
peculiar phraseology, that she was prepared to
fulfil her obligations. Still Mr Muckle had a
morbid dread of being made a fool of, and every

time lie re-read Stella's letter, an uncomfortable
sensation haunted him that, if he took it au
series, he might find himself in that much-dreaded
position ; while if he did not, he might
not only lose the girl he loved, but her fortune
to boot. It of course never entered his head
that the heiress was playing with him, merely to
save her friend from his designs ; and he was at
a loss, therefore, to conceive why she should want
to make a fool of him. But his perplexities
redoubled when he set himself to answer this
singular production. Should he begin it "Madam"
or " My beloved one " ? — and as between these
two extremes there was a large choice, Mr Muckle
tried them all, and was satisfied with none. He
could write either as the lover or the junior partner,
but when it came to combining the two in
equal proportions, his ingenuity failed him.

Now it is not to be supposed that the little
plot of Mrs Rhymer and CasseroU should have
altogether escaped the cognisance of a person of
Mr Muckle's extreme perspicacity and experience
in City intrigues. No sooner had the agitation
among the hitherto quiescent shareholders of the
Universal Scintillator Company commenced, than
he suspected an exciting cause ; and this, by a

patient process of induction and inquiry, he
finally traced to Casseroll. He lead the proceedings
of that enterprising young stockbroker
watched, and became thereby aware, not only
of his visits to Mrs Rhymer, but of Sark's arrival
in town, and attendance at the Board meeting.
Being once upon the track, he further discovered
that the details of his negotiation with Sark
had become known, which could only have been
divulged by Mrs Rhymer, or by that nobleman
himself; and as it was evidently the interest of
the latter that they should remain secret, the
treachery of Mrs Rhymer became apparent. And
this confirmed him in his fear that matters might
be so serious between Stella and Sark as to have
excited her jealousy, in which case the heiress's
letter to him became all the more inexplicable.
Under these circumstances, he decided that,
before taking any definite step, or troubling
himself any further about framing a reply to
the letter he had received, he would take the
bull by the horns, — in other words, boldly go
and call upon Sark, when he would have an
opportunity of finding out, first, what the intentions
of that nobleman might be with regard
to completing the negotiations affecting the Company

of which he was chairman, and carrying out
the engagement into which he had entered ; and
secondly, what position he occupied in the affections
of Stella Walton. "For," said Muckle
viciously to himself, as he stepped into a hansom
cab, " if he adds insult to injury, first, by marrying
the heiress, and then by throwing over his
engagement with me, I will have my revenge."
Now it so happened that at the very time
when Mr Muckle was engaged in the perplexed
cogitations which I have been describing. Lord
Sark was very similarly employed in his comfortable
library in Grosvenor Square. He also was
painfully discussing in his own mind whether he
should answer a little tinted note, with a resplendent
monogram, in which the letters Mac.
were inextricably and most illegibly intertwined
in the shape of a heart, and which exhaled a
subtle and delicate perfume which too forcibly
reminded him of a moral atmosphere from
which he had determined to escape for ever.
Pah ! " said Sark, as he' rose impatiently from
his chair and paced the room to and fro, " the
horrid thing makes me feel quite sick. It's very
odd that an odour should have such an effect
upon one's nerves, and yet there was a time that

I decidedly liked it. That's one of those problems
Altera is always trying to get to the
bottom of. I wonder why no scientific man has
ever written a treatise on the physical effects
of a smell, as determined by association. I've
made a fine mess of my affairs," he went on,
with a sudden transition of idea ; " the old proverb,
'Malheureux au jeu heureux en amour,'
does not hold good in my case, for my speculations
in finance have been as unlucky as my heart-ventures.
I am now engaged in the interesting
experience of finding out which is the easier, —
to appease a parcel of enraged shareholders or an
infuriated woman. I wonder whether it will be
best to write to her or to see her ! " At this
moment he was interrupted by the door opening,
and the servant entering with Muckle's card.

Show him in," said his lordship, with an
angry frown, flinging himself back into his chair,
and covering Mrs Rhymer's letter with a sheet of
blotting-paper.

So sorry to disturb you," said Muckle, in his
most silvery voice. *' I know how worried and
busy you must be, for of course one cannot be in
the thick of things in the City, as I am, without
knowing what is going on ; but the fact is. Gran-deserta

is over in Paris trying to pacify the consortium
there, who are getting most impatient
about the conclusion of our arrangements, you
know, and I have just received a telegram from
the Baron urging me to see you without delay,
and get something definite. There are some documents
which still need signing, you remember."

If," replied Sark, " you are so well informed
as to what is going on, you must be aware of the
difficulties which have unexpectedly arisen, and
which make it very doubtful whether the proposed
arrangements can be carried out. There
has been some treachery at work," he Went on,
with a keen glance at Muckle ; 'ein a few more
days we should have secured a majority for any
arrangement we liked to propose, but these premature
disclosures have utterly upset my calculations.
I have been racking my brains in vain
to discover who the traitor could have been."

Cherchez la femme'' said Muckle, with oracular
irony.

"What do you mean by that, sir?" returned
Sark, sharply.

I mean that the traitress is not far to find.
I am in possession of proof that Mrs Rhymer has
been the Dea ex machine."

Lord Sark kept this gaze sternly fixed on his
visitor, but said nothing.

You'll excuse me, Lord Sark, for speaking so
freely," Muckle went on, feeling rather uneasy
under it, 'but the circumstances are such as
may justify my frankness. If there is any truth
in the rumour which we have all heard of an
approaching event, which may materially affect
your lordship's financial position, you may possibly
be able to see your way to making arrangements
which will be satisfactory to us all, and
nip the conspiracy in the bud which has been seton
foot by Mrs Rhymer and a stockbroker named
CasseroU, by acquiring a controlling interest in
the Company."

Muckle threw in this delicate allusion to the
rumour, which was uppermost in his mind,— first,
as a hint to Lord Sark that it might have had
something to do with Mrs Rhymer's energetic
interference in his affairs ; and secondly, because
it would force him to a declaration on the subject
which should set his own mind at rest.

I am not aware of any approaching event
which can in any way affect my present financial
position except the Lisle Land Bill, and
you have my authority for contradicting all

VOL. II. G

rumours of the kind to which you allude. Indeed
I should have imagined that you were the
last person to give credence to them, for no one
has such good reason to know that they are
unfounded."

This admission caused what Mr Muckle called
his heart to thump against his waistcoat. Could
anything be clearer than that Lord Sark had
tried his luck with the heiress and failed, and that
she had told him of her previous engagement to
himself ? He was conscious of an embarrassment
very foreign to his ordinary sensations, and of a
rush of blood to his ears. Muckle was incapable
of blushing, or it would have gone into his
cheeks. He was, moreover, unable, in the confusion
of the moment, to decide how much to
admit or deny ; so he took refuge in his pocket-handkerchief
and the weather, and remarked
that he had caught a violent cold.

I am sorry to hear it," said Sark, upon whom
Muckle's embarrassment had not been lost, and
who, with her ignoble-looking lover before him,
felt more profoundly indignant with Stella than
ever. " I hope you will excuse me if I terminate
our interview. I am sorry that I do not see my
way to giving you any message at present to

send to Paris ; and I must honestly tell you that
I doubt very much whether our proposed arrangement
can be carried out. I may now find it
necessary, in order to save my own credit, to
take measures which may involve me in pecuniary
ruin, but not, I hope, with the loss of my
reputation. Meanwhile, should another alternative
present itself by which I can avoid making
this sacrifice, I will let you know."

There was a cool dignity about Sark which
made it difficult for a man of Muckle's calibre to
venture either upon menace or familiarity ; moreover,
he was in too amiable a mood to be easily
offended, and too anxious to be alone with his
bliss and his love-letter, which he had already
decided to answer at once, to wish to prolong his
stay ; so he graciously bowed himself out, and
left his lordship to chew the bitter cud of his
fancies, which his visit had certainly not helped
to sweeten.

CHAPTER XXV,

MRS CLYMEE, PLOTS REVENGE.

Muckle's visit to Sark had the effect of dispelling
in the mind of the latter any doubt he might
have felt as to the next course to be pursued
with regard to the invitation contained in Mrs
Rhymer's note. Whatever feeling of compassion
he had entertained towards that lady, or lingering
fear of too roughly wounding her affections,
had now vanished ; and half an hour later he
was ushered into the well-known sanctum of the
fair adventuress, and was threading his way in
the pink gloom, through the maze of low easy-chairs
and tiny tables, loaded with ohjets de vertu,
the gifts of numerous admirers, with which it
was studded. Mrs Rhymer, who had denied
herself to all other visitors on the chance of his
coming, had carefully prepared the effects of

costume and surroundings which her long experience
told her would be most taking, and was
languidly reclining on a lounge, a prey to sorrow
and despair. She was too depressed even to rise
and greet him, and could only murmur, as he
seated himself by her side, while she extended
her soft little white hand, glittering with jewels,
'eat last, dear friend!"

Sark took the hand, but did not return its
pressure, as he remarked coldly, " I came because
you sent for me. Are you ill ? "

At heart very, and at head too," she replied,
passing her hand wearily over her eyes. " No
one knows what I have suffered these last weeks.
Oh, Sark, why did you desert me so cruelly in
Paris? What have I ever done to offend you
that you should break off a friendship which I
prized more than my life ? Since you so cunningly
stole from me the heart I had sworn to
hold safely in my own keeping, I have felt new
and higher hopes and aspirations rising within
me — our friendship was so elevating and purifying
in its character ; your influence over me was
so wholesome ; my whole inner life was changing
under it so completely, that you have done mea
moral wrong, by withdrawing the strong arm

which was supporting me, which you can never
repair. I feel like a rudderless ship, abandoned
to the mercy of the winds and waves of this cruel,
heartless world, — oh, so desolate and forlorn ! "
and Mrs Rhymer pressed a piece of lace to her
eyes which did duty for a handkerchief, and had
a mopping capacity for about two tears, and
went off into an agony of sobs.

Now this is a sort of appeal that makes any
man with a particle of sentiment feel like a brute,
no matter how false he may suspect it to be, and
his first instinct is invariably to offer some sort
of consolation.

Sark was conscious of an uncomfortable sensation
of being rapidly disarmed, as he said, " Come,
don't cry, Marion ; I want to talk to you like a
sensible woman. You know how I hate tears."

It was just because she knew it that they
seemed to flow more freely. " I can bear anything
— sob — which will make you — sob — happy.
When is the — sob — marriage to take place ? "

What marriage ? "

With that Cal — sob — ionian girl."

I am not going to be married to her ; and I
do not see the remotest probability of my ever
being married to anybody."

There was a long pause, broken only by the
gently subsiding sobs of the Rhymer, as they
recurred at rarer intervals and with less violence
for she was preparing for her great coup, and
required time. At last she said softly, turning
her large brimming eyes on Sark, "And you
never knew that I was a free woman ? "

If she had fired a bullet into him she could not
have produced a more painful impression upon his
organism. " Good heavens, Marion ! why did
you never tell me this before ? " he ejaculated.

I thought you knew it. I told you once Mr
Rhymer had married again — which, of course he
could not have done had I remained his wife.
What could 1 say more?"

Sark vainly tried to remember the occasion on
which this piece of information had been imparted
to him, and felt that it rendered it still
more important that he should define his own
position for the future definitely. "It is strange,"
he said coldly, " that I should have forgotten the
circumstance, and that you should have allowed
the world to remain under a false impression on
a subject so important to yourself; but it is too
late for me to alter my views in regard to my
future now, however I might have been affected

by what you tell me at a former period. I have
quite made up my mind never to marry ; indeed
my financial position is such that I could not if
I would : and it is with reference to that I wished
especially to speak to you. Why was it necessary
to consult CasseroU about my affairs without
my knowledge ? "

It was now Mrs Rhymer's turn to receive a
shock ; and the question was so sudden and unexpected,
and involved the possibility of so much
acquaintance with her proceedings on the part
of Sark, that her whole calculations were thrown
out. She had hojDcd he would confide his many
troubles to her, when she would have sympathised
with him, instead of which he was
evidently going to make her responsible for
them.

Oh, Sark," she said, '' I hope I did not do
wrong ; but I heard such horrible rumours about
the state of your Company, and became so uneasy
on your account, as you were absent, that
I went to consult Mr CasseroU on the subject,
and he told me what an agitation had been produced
among the shareholders by some things
that have leaked out about your negotiations
with Grandesella & Muckle in Paris. I am sure

I can't imagine how so much could have become

o

known," said the Rhymer, innocently.

Her explanation did not satisfy him, but Sark
was too much of a gentleman to press the matter
further. His eyes were now thoroughly opened
to the character of the woman he had loved.
And as we always seem to think that wasted
affections are to be regretted, he rose with a
sigh, and gave her his hand in parting.

When am I to see you again ? " she said.

I don t know. I am very much occupied
now."

"What are you going to do about your arrangement
with Muckle ? "

Mrs Rhymer had risen from the couch, and was
standing up. She felt that she must change her
tactics, and, to use the language of the period,
was " pulling herself together."

I have decided to break off all further
negotiations for transferring the Company's property."


Then how do you intend to face your shareholders
at the next meeting ? " she asked. " If
I understood Mr Casseroll rightly, there has
been gross mismanagement and irregularity in
its affairs."

I think by the sacrifice of all my Irish property
— though Irish property is not very valuable
just now — I may save the situation ; and I am
prepared to ruin myself in the attempt, though
I have in no way been a party to, or benefited
by, the irregularities Mr Casseroll alludes to."

And when you are a ruined man, what do
you intend to do ? Penniless peers are not, as a
rule, easily provided for."

That depends on whether your party is in
power. I think the present Government would
take compassion upon me."

Will you come and see me tomorrow ? " she
asked, with the pertinacity common to the sex
under these circumstances.

"No; I must go over to Ireland and see
my agent about finding some one insane enough
to pay for the privilege of becoming an Irish
landlord."

Would you mind my taking a trip to Ireland
about the same time ? "

If you took it with any hope of meeting me,
I am afraid you would be disappointed."

Am I to understand " — and Mrs Rhymer s
lips got very white — " that you no longer care
for me ? "

I shall always feel a friendly interest in
yon ; bnt I have made np my mind to regain
my complete independence. It is very painful
for me to have to say this, but it is better that
you should know that my whole nature has undergone
a revolution since we last met ; and
it would be folly to pretend a sentiment I do
not feel."

At this moment Mrs Rhymer felt a strong inclination
to throw herself on the ground at his
feet. Had she for a moment thought an act of
this kind, however humiliating to herself, would
have been successful, she would not have shrunk
from it. She now struggled as fiercely against
a violent outbreak of hysterical sobbing, as she
had striven to bring on an imitation of it at the
commencement of the interview. She knew with
unerring instinct that she had irrecoverably lost
Sark, and lost him in the way most galling to
a woman, because he had met some one who had
stolen his affection from her. At that moment
her hatred was pretty evenly divided between
her lover and her rival ; and with it there surged
in upon her an overwhelming desire for revenge.
It was true he had said that there was no chance
of his marrying, but she none the less felt that

the temple of her affections had been burglariously
entered, and robbed of its treasure. It
was at this moment that the servant entered
with a note. She opened it, and saw — " Dear
Polly, — Expect me this evening at 9. — Yours,
Terence." a compromising epistle, she thought,
with a bitter smile ; and she looked up at Sark,
standing before her coldly, and, as she felt, heartlessly,
waiting to bid her a last adieu. She
fancied she read in his glance — perhaps it was
the effect of a morbid imagination — a concealed
loathing, which stung her to madness.

Go," she said, and sinking back on the couch,
buried her face in the cushion ; then she heard
the door close behind him and gave way to the
violence of her emotion. It was not till her
passion had exhausted itself that she rose, and
calmly went to her writing-desk. " Now," she
murmured, "for revenge." Her note was only
an excuse for a dinner engagement for the same
evening, on the plea of ill health, for her anxiety
had now become feverishly concentrated on the
visit of Terence Dunleavy. True to time that
champion of the down - trodden classes made
his appearance ; and Mrs Rhymer, who had removed
all traces of the storm through which

she had passed, received him with affectionate
cordiality.

My dear Terence," she exclaimed, as she held
ont her hand, " how good of you to come so soon!
I thought such a busy man as you would have
forgotten all about me."

Why, the fact is," he replied, " I have to goto
Ireland tomorrow on a rather important
affair, and I wanted to know, first, whether you
were inclined to do an old friend and a noble
cause a good turn ? "

"' I would do anything I could for both in
reason," she replied.

Well, then, look here, Polly ; it is not necessary
for me to tell you exactly what I'm going
over about, but it's a matter of life and death.
Now I may want information which only someone
placed like you, you understand, that knows
all the ropes in society, could give me. I shall
let you know how to write to me, so that there
is no chance of its ever being traced to you.
You're all safe enough, only I must be able to
rely upon you acting true."

I suppose you won't tell me now, what it is
you are likely to want to know ? "

No," he said ; " I would rather not, because

I may never want to know it. If you would
rather not promise, tell me now, only don't
betray me if you do promise."

"There's no fear of that. Let me think a
minute — it does not do to decide such things ina
hurry, — you will have a distinguished fellow-passenger
to-night."

'' Who's that ? "

'' Lord Sark."

Lord Sark ! Why, he's got a large property
in County Contrary somewhere."

I daresay he does not know where it is himself.
I shouldn't wonder if he'd never been
there."

Taken pretty good care to draw his rent
though, I'll be bound."

Oh yes ; I believe he is going over to put
the screw on now. He told me his agent had
become so demoralised since he got a ball through
the leg the other day, that he is going over
himself to collect his rents and enforce some
evictions. I must say for Lord Sark, if he is
a tyrant, he does not know what fear is."

Is he a friend of yours, Polly ? "

A friend of mine — I hate the man ! " and at
the moment she spoke the truth. " He has done

me the greatest wrong a man can do a woman.
He is a type of the class that keep the poor and
the oppressed from getting their rights. Merciless
by nature, he deserves no mercy ; and those
who show it to him will rue it some day;, — that's
my opinion of Lord Sark. If you are going to
make war against the aristocracy, as countries
make war against their enemies, and cut them
off in detail, now's your chance."

Why, Polly, what a little spitfire you have
become ! One would think you wanted the man
murdered because you want to be revenged; that
would make it assassination, you know, and weare
opposed to assassination. When we have to
remove individuals, it is done as an act of wear,
and that renders it holy."

"Well it is as an act of war I am talking of it.
If you want to demoralise a class, you must begin
with the most prominent and popular members of
it. You might shoot several small Irish noblemen
without producing the same effect that you
would if you shot the Earl of Sark. However,
please yourself; and in regard to a correspondent,
I would advise you to look for some one else."

Come now, Polly," said Dunleavy, — who saw
that it needed very little to enable him to get

Mrs Rhymer completely into his power, and that
she would be all the more trustworthy as anally
if he did, — " I see you are one of the right
sort. I am not sure but what there's a deal of
sense in what you say. Let's act together in
this matter all through. I'll give you a secret
code, and enrol you as one of the sisterhood ;
it's a grand cause, and, let me tell you, the
women are mighty useful in it, and have a deal
of power."

Well," said Mrs Rhymer, " I think we understand
one another. Now perhaps you will answer
the question I asked you first, and tell me what
you are going over about." But as these are
matters of too confidential a character to be
divulged, I must leave the worthy pair to discuss
the salvation of society by means of dynamite,
and return to the party that we left at the
cottage at Copleydale.

Chapter Xxii.

Hannah's toilet.

Copley Grange was one of those old English
country houses which are the especial delight of
our American cousins. It had a moat and the
remains of an old drawbridge, with a venerable
archway, and a groove in it, which, in ancient
times, was fitted with a portcullis, and which
was ornamented with the armorial bearings of
the Washington family, with the year 1460
carved beneath them. It had turrets and winding
stone stairs, and walls four feet thick, and
haunted chambers, and secret passages — in fact,
every architectural device which the rude luxury
of the period in which it was built could suggest,
or its wealth procure ; and it had been added
to recently in accordance with more modern requirements,
— for the Dashingtons had been one
of the great county families from old time, and

VOL. II. H

had ever been celebrated for their princely hospitality,
the traditions of which had been cherished
by each successive baronet, so that it had
become the fashion to increase the size of the
mansion just in proportion as the acreage of the
property was diminished through a too lavish
expenditure. When the present baronet came
into the property, he found it burdened not only
with a house and park very much too large for
it, but with sundry mortgages, which would have
suggested to a prudent man that the time had
come when the traditions of the family might
advantageously be departed from, and its too
generous hospitality curtailed. Sir George, who
was at Oxford when his father died, no sooner
succeeded than he showed his readiness to depart
from the traditions of the family, but not in the
sense of limiting its hospitality. On the contrary,
he was quite as extravagant as any of his
ancestors, but he conceived that he possessed a
talent for finance which had been denied to
them, and he determined, therefore, to restore
the fallen fortunes of his house by methods
which they would probably have shrunk from.
As the director of ten joint-stock companies, the
aristocratic tool of Lauriola, and the cavaliers

servant of the wife of that great speculator, his
reputation was not exactly one which his ancestor,
the famous Sir Grey, who had been a
cavalier of quite another type, in the days of
Cromwell, would have envied. Still he was not
an unamiable man, or unkind to his wife, provided
she flirted enough to keep up the character
of the establishment. She mio;ht invite as
many friends of her own to Copley Grange as
she pleased, so long as they did not clash with
his ; and he was always ready to make himself
a charming and amiable host. So when Lady
Adela, on her return from the visit to the cottage,
announced that she had asked the whole
party there to spend a week at the Grange, he
had offered no objection; on the contrary, he was
rather pleased with the idea. He had taken a
fancy to the two Americans. He was curious to
see Altera after the notoriety she had acquired ;
and Baron Grandesella was of so much importance
in the financial world, that the Baroness
was a welcome visitor, — it would put the Baron
under an obligation which might be made available
some day ; moreover, all the credit of thus
putting an end to the scandal so nearly affecting
his wife's family would devolve upon him.

I shall telegraph for the Lauriolas," he said.
I know they are not engaged elsewhere —
they will just suit the Baroness Grandesella ; and
you can send for St Olave, you know, and one or
two other young men."

"St Olave has already promised to come," she
replied, slightly flushing ; " and there will be Mr
Hetherington and Bob Alderney. I am so sorry
Sark had to go away so suddenly, — we want
more men."

Ask Basinghall."

I am afraid he would not care to come without
Mrs Haseleyne."
'' Well, ask her too."

Very well, George ; but I'm nearly sure they
are both engaged. I know they were discussing
the merits of two or three invitations when we
were at Beaufort."

Well, there's CasseroU, he'll do well with the
Lauriolas and the Baroness — he is a sharp young
fellow ; and I hear she has quite a head for business.
We might knock up some new combination.
Then if you want another odd man,
there's always the curate. I think a very slight
infusion of ecclesiastics gives a delicate flavour
to a mixed party. It's like a suspicion of garlic

in a salad. He will be too much swamped by
the others to be offensive. By the way, there's
Mac Alpine, only he is such an ass ; but he can
supply a whifF of scepticism to correct the odour
of sanctity if it becomes overpowering."

Meantime the Baroness, in a flutter of delight
at so unexpected a development, had written,
announcing; the turn affairs had taken, to
Muckle, urging the expediency of delay, in sofar
as Altera was concerned, as it was evident
that her social position would be so much improved
by it, and refraining from any allusion to
the determination expressed by the young lady
herself to resist, at all hazards, the proposed
marriage. She had scarcely despatched her
letter, when, to her surprise, she received one
from that gentleman, saying that, on consideration,
he had decided for the present not to urge
his suit on Altera, and that, so far as his immediate
interests were concerned, the Baroness might
consider her mission terminated, but that he
declined to give any assurances that he would
not renew the subject. Muckle had indeed never
clearly realised the somewhat anomalous position
in which he had placed himself, so absorbed had
he been by the receipt of Stella s letter, until he

began to answer it. It then occurred to him
that the Baroness might, at that moment, most
inconveniently have secured him the hand — he
never hoped for the heart — of Altera; but ashe
knew that the latter would only be too glad
to be released from the engagement, even if her
consent had been obtained to it, he had no
scruple in writing to the Baroness in the above
sense, prudently keeping, however, the sword of
Damocles suspended in case of necessity. His
letter to Stella, which began, "Dearest Miss
Walton," contained an effusive expansion of his
gratitude, with his promise that in a few days
the necessary documents should be prepared,
and the expression of the hope that he might
be allowed to bring them down to Copleydale
himself.

*rand the men say that we are vain," said
Stella, when she read the letter. 'what but
the most inordinate vanity could have induced
him to gorge such a coarse bait ? I shall be
quite sorry when the farce terminates ; it's such
fun making a fool of a man who thinks himself
so smart. Now, Hannah, I've pretty nigh fixed
this lace on. I'm going to present you at Copley
Grange as a harmony in slate. Now you will

see that the dress I had such trouble to have
made for you in Paris will come in most usefully."


*' You just hold steady," said Hannah, placing
her hand on Stella's shoulder ; " afore I put them
duds on, I've got to learn the trick of my legs
in 'em. There now, supposing' I want to turn
round of a sudden, I've got to give a sort of a
sweeping kick sideways to clear the train, as I
understand — so."

'' Not so violently, Hannah, or you would lose
your balance ; besides, you must show grace in
your movements," said Stella, laughing. " More
like this, but I ought to have a train on to show
you ; it looks ridiculous to be kicking at nothing,
however gracefully you do it. Then there's
another thing, Hannah, you must be very careful
about sitting down with dresses made like this ;
don't go and plump down suddenly and throw
yourself back, without remembering to take hold
of your train and throw it over your feet."

I know," said Hannah. " I've often seen
that Rhymer do it, and wondered why she did
not do it sooner — shameless hussy; then she'd
look for aU the world like a cat with her tail
twisted over her toes — same as you sometimes

see 'em a setting'. Well, there's no need to tell
me to be cheerful in my movements when I'm
carrying them fixing's about. Why, I suppose
that dress, now, cost a matter of a hundred
dollars ? "

'two hundred. Only don't let Mattie know
I told you. She would have got you one that
cost twice as much, only she was afraid you
would be angry, and wouldn't wear it. She
says there's no dress that was ever made that
is good enough for you ; but then, you know,
Mattie's a little fool, and we, none of us pay
any attention to what she says." And Stella
put her arms round the old lady's neck, and
made her pant for breath under the violence of
her embrace. "Now it's all ready for you to
try on — let us make haste, and then I'll go and
call Mattie and Altera."

"Don't appear to me," said Hannah, while she
was undergoing the attiring process, " as them
colours go well together, — they're too much
alike, and ain't no particular colour at that."

They are called teints degrades , and harmonise
with your general style and complexion."

'well, I suppose it's better to have 'em
muddy-lookin', so as not to show the dirt. My,

now, if I ain't real uncomfortable about the legs !
Don't seem to me as I could walk without
austin' something, or toppling over myself.
What was that went crack ? '^

Only a string. You mustn't move about so
energetically, Hannah. Do stand still. Draw
in your breath a little, so that I can make this
meet — there. Now walk on slowly. Why, that's
perfectly splendid ; you look something between
a medieval saint and a dowager empress. I
must complete the resemblance by putting a
diamond star on your forehead on a black band
over the parting where your hair is so thin, then
the lace-cap covers all the rest. Now you're
finished," and putting her head through the door
into the next room, where the girls were
impatiently waiting the summons, she called,
Altera ! Mattie ! the full-dress rehearsal is
about to begin. Advance, Hannah, and shake
hands with Altera and Mattie as if they were
Sir George and Lady Adela. Don't step back so
suddenly or you'll tumble over your tail. Always
give a kick immediately after shaking hands
as you retire."

Shall I stick my elbow out so when I shake
hands ? " asked Hannah.

No : that's going out. Now, imagine that
you are being introduced to the Duchess of Beau-court
; — don't walk stiffly up and put your hand
out and say, ' Duchess of Beaufort, I'm pleased
to know you, madam,' but make a curtsey — so ;
perhaps she won't want to shake hands — these
British aristocrats often think bowing quite
enough, and you needn't say anything."

Guess I can't make that curtsey," said Hannah
; " don't see how on birth you do it sweeping'
down like that."

Well, a bow will be enough. I don't know
myself exactly how it's done, as I never was
taught in America ; now gracefully retire to the
couch and sit down, and see that you handle
your train properly — smartly now, as they say
in the navy."

The plaguy thing seems like as if it was
caught somewhere," murmured Hannah with her
head down, as, seated on the couch, she tugged
at her skirts. Finally, extricating them from
a footstool, she flung them triumphantly across
her feet.

There ; that was capital. You only want a
little more practice," said Mattie, laughing heartily.

" Now Altera has got some news to tell
you."

Mamma has just been to tell me that she has
heard from Mr Muckle, who writes to say that if
the proposal she had to make on his behalf tome
seems disagreeable, she is not to press it."

Ah," said Stella, laughing, "he is beginning
to find out that it requires some dexterity to
manage two strings to one bow, for fear of getting
them entangled."

My sakes ! " exclaimed Hannah, jumping up
from her seat, having previously dexterously
kicked aside her train, " I guess I can sympathise
with him, — if there doesn't go the second
string to mine ; what's the use of it, anyway,
stuck on in front like a soup-plate ? I guess it
don't hold up anything."

Why, Stella," laughed Mattie, " Hannah is
quite right ; she has profited by her lessons from
Mr Mac Alpine. Don't you know that it's against
the first principles of aesthetics to add anything
for the sake of ornament to a work of art for
which there is no constructive necessity ? "

Well, but Mattie, the bow is a work of art in
itself."

Ah, but the supreme art, according to our
kilted prophet, consisted in making the whole
person a single artistic conception, and not a
conglomeration of separate artistic ideas."

"Yes. I suppose," retorted Stella, " that was
why he wanted to pull his kilt up to his neck,
and turn it into a Eoman toga. Which would
you rather be, Hannah — a single artistic conception,
or a conglomeration of separate artistic
ideas ? "

I suppose paint and false hair and patches,
and all them things that Rhymer wears, are separate
artistic ideas," said Hannah. " Well, I
guess I was a single artistic conception from the
time I was born, and you can't improve upon me
much. Why, here's Bobby coming' in at the gate.
What a start he did give me ! "

I have just received a telegram from Wethers
said that gentleman on entering, " and
he says that he has seen Sark safely off for
Ireland, and hopes to meet us all at the Grange
tomorrow. Oh, Hannah, I beg your pardon."

"taint your fault, Bobby. How the men's
ever to keep off my tail, I'm sure I don't know ;
it's one o' them gathers gone, Stella."

"You really must learn to be more careful,
Hannah, low you approach the opposite sex.
Trains were invented to teach that lesson, I suppose,
but they don't seem to have been much
use. I wonder why Lord Sark has gone to
Ireland ! "

Perhaps for safety," suggested Altera, whose
thoughts reverted to Mrs Rhymer.

He didn't ought to have gone," said Hannah.
Laws ! that was why I gave that start when I
seen Bobby ; there's no safety for him there.
It's old Hannah says so, and you'd better believe
it."

Chapter Xxiii.

HANNAH EXPOUNDS TO THE CURATE.

Mr Chalfont, will you take Miss Coffin ? "
said Lady Adela Darlington to the curate of
Copley, as she was marshalling the guests for
dinner on the evening of their arrival at the
Grange ; and the clergyman, bowing gracefully,
offered his arm to Hannah, who, sitting bolt
upright on the edge of a chair, was severely
scanning the assembled company very much
with the air of a general on a field-day waiting
for the troops to march past. Miss Coffin
was too utterly devoid of self-consciousness ever
to be in the slightest degree shy, flurried, or embarrassed
; but being of a philosophic and reflective
turn of mind, she was studying human nature,
in the phase under which it was now being presented
to her for the first time, with an earnest

desire to enlighten her mind, and add to her stock
of general information.

I didn't rightly catch your name," said
Hannah, " but I suppose you're the minister."

My name is Chalfont — Sidney Chalfont ; and,
as you rightly observe, I am in holy orders."

Holy orders is mighty difficult to obey ;
don't you find 'em ? " she remarked, rising and
taking his arm.

The present state of the law in this country
renders it impossible, very often," replied Mr
Chalfont, who had long made up his mind on the
first convenient occasion to become an ecclesiastical
martyr.

Do tell ! " exclaimed Hannah.

I beg your pardon. Miss Coffin."

Oh, I ain't noways offended, but it does
beat all."

What beats all ? "

Well, I don't know as I understood you,
but you seemed to say that you couldn't keep
the laws of God because of the laws of man —
and you a minister, too ; and I say that beats
all — and what's more, I stick to it."

Dear me," thought the Reverend Sidney
Chalfont, " this American is a very plain-spoken

woman." " My dear madam, I don't wonder that
you are astonished. I am well aware that the
Anglican priesthood of America are not subject
to the same tyranny that we are in this country."

Then why do you stand it ? "

We don't stand it, — we go to prison for it."

Seems to me, if they put you in prison for
it, as it is them as won't stand it. Did you
know, before you became a minister, that you
would either have to obey the laws of manor
else go to prison for not obeying 'em?"

That consideration was not sufficient to deter
me from following a vocation to which I felt internally
called, and from being a witness for the
truth and a martyr for conscience' sake."

And you feel sure that them laws you won't
obey was made to uphold untruth, and you was
made to uphold the truth ? "

'' I can only act according to my conscience,
and what I believe to be truth."

"And them as puts you in prison acts the
same, maybe."

I give them credit for being sincere."

Well, now," pursued the old lady, " I've been
in search of the highest truth since I was a gell
that's a matter of a half a century ; always on

the search. How old might you ha bm when
you determined to obey the holy orders ? "

About two-and-twenty," said Chalfont.

And you was so sure then that you'd got
the truth, that you decided to go where you
could break the laws of a country as calls itself
Christian, to testify to it ? "

"Well, I don't think that's altogether a fair
way of putting it," said Chalfont, laughing;
"but the subject is a large one, and involves
the whole question of the government of the
Church by the Church instead of by the State.
May I ask what was the result of your fifty
years' search after truth ? "

Well, I guess I'm on the track at last."

What, only on it now ? "

It's difficult saying when I first got on — a body
can't jest always give dates in them things. I
essay I was on all the time, but if I didn't know it,
there was no peace. It's only with the knowledge
as peace comes. It's not by reading', nor by study,
nor by spekilatin', that you find Divine truth —
it's by loving what is good, and a-doing' of it."

I should have said that Divine revelation
and the teaching of the Church were the guides
to truth," said Chalfont.

VOL. II. I

If one set of people as is guided by 'em puts
another set of people as is guided by 'em into
prison because they can't agree which way they
pint, seems to me they're mighty onsartin' guides."

It has been so from all time," replied Chalfont,
mournfully. " The history of Christendom
is a history of religious strife : till man is regenerate
it cannot be otherwise."

Well, then, it's o' no use for a man as isn't
regenerate daring' to say he knows what Divine
truth is, — it's a-puttin' the cart before the horse,
young man ; he hasn't got the materials in him
to find it out with. There's no bishop nor yet a
judge in the land as has a right to speak on such
things — leastways till he has conquered his own
evils, and that's a mighty hard job. It's the
heart as finds out truth, and not the head.
When a man has given up houses, and lands,
and wife, and children to serve his fellow-fritters,
then he is beginning; to get his heart into training
for finding' the truth. It's only by loving' his
kind more than himself, and sacrificing everything
for 'em, that a man who starts not known'
whether there is a God at all, can find Him out,
and then He leads him into all truth ; but if you
begin as soon as you can toddle to be martin' that
what your mama told you must be true, I don't

wonder at your getting put into prison for sticking'
to it afterwards, by them whose mamas told 'em
different."

But my present views were not obtained from
my mamma' said Chalfont, much amused.

Well, you set your muddled young brains
against the muddled old brains of the others
both of you train' to work out God's truth
as if it was a problem in mathematicks. Things
as can't be proved are things as must be felt,
and things as are felt mostly can't be proved.
How can a truth as is based on pure love be
proved ? When people feel the same love, never
fear but they'll feel the same truth. What I
hold to is loving' what's good."

"Then try some of those truffles, madam,"
said Lauriola, who was sitting on the other side
of her, as the servant handed her those dainties
Trapped in a napkin, and who only caught the
last sentence. " I quite agree with you about
loving what's good — take plenty of butter."

Hannah, who had never seen those unprepossessing
looking tubers before, in her thirst for
knowledge boldly imitated the example of her
neighbours. "My sakes ! " she said, turning
again to Chalfont, and speaking with her mouth
full — " it's like trying to eat a chunk of tamarack-root,

same as you see in swamps. If you call
that nice, it's a truth I can't smaller," and she
elegantly suited the action to the word. " It
may be true to you because you love it, it ain't
true to me because I don't. Who can prove who
is right? I only hope it's a truth as'll agree
with you after you've swallowed it."

But that goes to show," replied Chalfont,
that people differ in their ideas of what is
good, and that the first step in the search for
truth is the finding out what the good thing is
that you are to love."

"That's so — now you're getting' to the root
of things. There is just two kinds of love.
Some folks think the best and highest love is
the love of themselves — and others that it is
the love of their fellow-fritters ; and what seems
true to the first set, will always seem false to
the others. People who really love their kind
live for 'em ; and it's through given' up everything
for 'em and living' for 'em that you find
out things — not by studying' on old doctrines,
maybe true, but that nobody can't prove the
truth of. Believing', as they call it, in doctrines,
don't seem to do much good to people's lives,"
pursued Hannah, looking round the table.

'' I assure you' said CasseroU, at this moment

speaking across to Lauriola, of the Company of
which Sark was chairman, " that in spite of the
high character of some of the directors, there
will be a terrible exposure — the thing will turnout
to have been a complete swindle."

One of the members of the Board fills, if I
am not mistaken," said MacAlpine, with a sneer,
a prominent position in the Society for the
Protection of the Interests of the Church. You
must surely know about him, Mr Chalfont ? "

I know that there are a great many people
who make use of religion as a cloak to cover
their iniquity," responded the curate, coldly,
"just as there are many who use a smattering
of science to conceal their ignorance, or indulge
in philosophical platitudes in order to impose
upon the ignorance of others. There are the
Pharisees and hypocrites of scepticism as well
as of religion."

Mr MacAlpine," said Hannah, breaking solemnly
in upon the pause which followed this
speech, and looking round the table for a general
assent, " that's so, and you'd better believe it."

This produced a general laugh at MacAlpine's
expense.

That old woman is perfectly delicious," Sir
George Washington remarked to Madame Lauriola.

"The Baroness there ought to be eternally
grateful to her," observed that lady.

"How so?"

Why, it was she, I believe, who put up
Altera Peto to running away from her parents
in Paris, thereby giving them a start in society
which they would never have got in any other
way, — witness her presence under your roof now."

Come, come, ma mie, you mustn't be jealous ;
the Baron and Baroness have just as good a right
to be in society as many others who are there
better, in fact, considering Altera's relationship
to my wife ; and I'll turn the Baron to
account before I've done with him. There's
Lady Adela giving the signal for a move ; take
my advice, and make the Baroness an ally and
not a rival."

Keithyy," said Hannah to Hetherington a day
or two afterwards, when they found themselves
alone in the corner of the library, " I've been
talking' a good bit to that young minister, and
ha got him on my mind. It's amazing' how I
seem to know more what's in a body by what
he don't say than what he does. He's got a
heart of gold has that young man, if he could
only be got on the right track. It's the martyr-spirit
as he's got. He's just austin' with love

for God and his fellow-fritters, and it runs into
all kinds of fancies as he wants to be put in
prison for, — suthin' about some kind of clothes
he wants to wear when he's a-preachin', I disremember
the name of 'em, and the Courts won't
let him — seems there's a judge as says it's again
the laws of God to wear 'em, also to mix wine
with water, and light candles and sech things in
Church. 'Well,' says I, 'as the judge can't know
what the will of the Almighty is a bit more nor
you can in the matter, and it ain't no account
any way, why don't you give in ? ' Says he, ' If
I did, I should be a traitor to my God and my
Church ; there's a great principle a-lyin' under
it,' says he, ' and I should be false to the highest
love of my soul if I didn't hold to it.' Jest the
same as you sometimes see a young man in love
with a gell, and he'll try and break his neck over
a precipice to get a flower for her which she
don't want, and which ain't no good after he's
got it, jest because he seems drive' to it by his
love, and he don't know no better. I tell you
it makes my heart feel sad, — it's like a fine
water-power all going' to waste in a new-settled
country, with plenty of lumber all round, and
people starving for shelter, and no mill on it as
can do anything but turn chair-legs and suchlike."

What surprises me is," said Hetherington,
*' that people should not feel more universally the
necessity of a fresh moral departure of some sort ;
that the inadequacy of the theological systems of
the day to cope with the evils of the age should
not force itself more powerfully upon men's
minds ; that with the increase of knowledge and
civilisation, we should have an almost corresponding
increase of armaments and of improvements
in the methods of human destruction;
that crimes should be more rampant, moral
abuses more refined; that all the great social
problems should remain unsolved, and that the
effort to solve them should be left to men of
science and philosophers, while the Churches
remain passive, and apparently satisfied with the
condition of things as they are ; that men like
Chalfont should not perceive that their zeal and
devotion are running in the same narrow channel
as those of the best men for the last two thousand
years, and leaving the moral problems as far from
solution as ever."

'' It 'pears to me," rejoined Hannah, " that
Christians have given up the idea of being
Christ-like — gave it up pretty soon, I guess — and
with it gave up the whole social idea contained in
the religion which applied it to daily life, — turned

it into a passport system for savin' souls, with dogmas,
and ceremonies, and suchlike, about which
people have been quarrelling ever since."

It can only be through a combined effort on
the part of those penetrated with the absolute
need of a new departure being attempted, which
shall grapple with the moral problems of our
present life, rather than with the hypothetical
considerations involved in a future one, that a
new force can be evolved which shall be sufficiently
powerful to display itself in what maybe
termed new natural moral phenomena. The
elements are pregnant with them, and their
manifestation cannot much longer be delayed.
When that time comes, men like Chalfont will
be attracted to the movement as certainly as the
needle to the magnet ; till then, his sufferings and
his unrest are the preparations necessary for the
discipline and the purification of his nature."

At this point Hetherington was interrupted by
the entry of Sir George Washington with the
morning paper in his hand.

Do you know where Bob Alderney is ? " he
asked in an excited manner.

I saw him walking in the garden with Miss
Terrill a few moments ago," replied Gatherings
; " is anything the matter ? "

"Head that; but for God's sake say nothing
about it till we have decided what is to be done.
Poor Adela ! I don't know how it is to be broken
to her."

Head it out, Keithyy," said Hannah.

Hetherington took the paper and read the following
telegraphic despatch : " The Earl of Sark
was blown up last night on his estate in Ireland
when retiring to rest. It seems that some explosive
material had been placed in the bedclothes.
But faint hopes are entertained of the
unfortunate nobleman's recovery."

Somebody will have to tell Adela," said Sir
George, who disliked all untoward occurrences,
and the trouble they involved. " She will be
sure to want to go off at once — and as I have all
sorts of important business to attend to. Bob
Alderney had better take her. 'Pon my life, it's
one of the worst pieces of news I have ever received
; but what else could you expect from
the policy of the Government ? Ah, here's a
telegram," he added, as the servant entered with
a despatch ; "just wait a moment, Hetherington,
till I see what is in it. Perhaps Miss Coffin
would kindly go and look for Miss Terrill and
Alderney ; " but Hannah had already disappeared.

CHAPTEK XXVIII.

THE EFFECTS OF AN EXPLOSION.

Bobby," said Hannah, as she overtook that
gentleman walking with Mattie in a sheltered
avenue, " where is Lady Adela ? "

'' I saw her this moment o;o out driving; with
the Baroness, Madame Lauriola, and St Olave,"
replied Alderney.

Stella and Altera have gone out riding with
Mr Lauriola and Mr Casseroll ; Mr MacAlpine
is in the throes of musical composition somewhere
; Mr Chalfont has gone to look after his
parishioners ; Sir George is engaged in what is
supposed to be financial correspondence ; I thought
Keith Hetherington was with you, — and having
thus accounted satisfactorily for the whole party,
we had no fear of interruption," added Mattie,
significantly.

VOL. 11. K

When does the first train start for Ireland ? "
asked Hannah.

'well, no train goes there direct," said Bob,
laughing. " I should have to consult Bradshaw
as to the quickest route from here. Why ? Are
you thinking about making the trip ? "

I ain't thinking about it ; I've done all that.
I am a-going' to start at onset, and you're a-comin''
with me. Listen to this " — and Hannah repeated
the words of the telegram which Hetherington
had read. "That's the kind of news that don't
bear delay, nor waiting' for folks to come home
from riding' to consult what's to be done."

They met Sir George and Hetherington as
they returned hurriedly to the house, and in a
few moments it was discovered that the boat
from Holyhead might be caught by going by
the next train.

You have only ten minutes to get ready in,
Hannah. Order the dogcart at once, George,
while I put a few things together. We may
just do it," said Bob.

There ! I only want a brush and a comb and
a night-gown in my hand valise, Mattie," said
Hannah, while she was putting on her bonnet.
You and Stella can follow with the rest of the

things. Tell the Lady" — Hannah generally
spoke of Lady Adela thus — "I had to take
Bobby to show me the way, and there was no
time to wait. Didn't I say, Mattie, there was
danger for Lordy in Leland when first I heard
he was a-going' over ? If her husband won't bring
the Lady over, I suppose Keitliy will, and you
can come along with them. We shall have tolet
Altera go back with her mama ; but there
ain't no danger for her just now. Tell Stella
she's bound to come at onset ; maybe she holds
his life in her hands. It's old Hannah as says
it," she added, after a pause, " and she'd better
believe it. Now hurry up, child, with them
things. I hear the buggy a-comin'' round " — and
snatching the bag from Mattie's hand, she gave
her a parting embrace, ran down-stairs with the
alacrity of a girl of eighteen, and two minutes
later was seated by Alderney's side in the dogcart.
" I've told Mattie what you'd best all do,"
she called out to Hetherington, as she waved
her hand to him, without taking the slightest
notice of Sir George, who never seemed to have
realised her intentions until he saw her form
rapidly retreating on his dogcart down the
approach.

It is needless to describe the consternation
and distress of the riding and driving parties
when they returned to the Grange, to be met
with the terrible intelligence which had been so
promptly acted upon by Hannah and Bob Alderney.
The Lauriolas, the Baroness, and Altera,
with MacAlpine and CasseroU, at once made preparations
for their immediate departure.

'you had better go to London with the Baroness
and Altera," said Stella to Hetherington.
It seems that Lord St Olave is going to take
charge of Lady Adela, as Sir George is too busy
to go to Ireland."

And what are you and Mattie going to do ?
Hannah said that she expected you to follow her
to Ireland."

I must go in the first instance to the Cottage ;
after that our movements are uncertain. There
are reasons why I am particularly anxious that
they should remain so. Now, good-bye ; I am
going to confide them to Altera, and shall then
be the first to leave this house of mourning."

Dear Altera," said Stella, taking that young
lady into a corner of her bedroom while her
maid was packing, " Mattie and I have come to
bid you good-bye. We are going to the Cottage

first, and shall then meet Lady Adela at the
station, and go with her to Ireland ; but I don't
wish any of our party here to know it. I was
afraid, dear, that you might be bothered with
that horrid Muckle, so I have just had time to
write him this hurried note. Listen —

Dear Mr Muckle, — I shall be delighted to
see you at Copleydale, if you will come here and
bring the necessary documents with you. — Your
friend, Stella Walton."

"But," said Altera, "you won't be at the
Cottage if you are going to Ireland."

Oh, I shall leave a note behind, begging him
to follow me. There are many reasons why it
will be much better for all of us to keep him
travelling about on a wild-goose chase, than
brewing mischief in London. I went out riding
with Mr CasseroU to-day on purpose to pick the
substance which he calls his brains; and from
what I have been able to gather, there is a sort
of conspiracy on foot in London to ruin poor
Lord Sark in money and reputation : and now
that he is no longer able to protect either, such
men as Muckle are too dangerous to be left to

their own devices. I only wish the Rhymer could
be as easily disposed of."

Why," said Altera, " what has she got to do
with it ? "

Find out from your mother, my dear, if you
can; she has been most confidentially engaged
with CasseroU ever since he has been here, and,
I think, has discovered more than I have. Weare
not going to let your cousin die, darling," she
added, with a quivering lip, and an emphasis on
the last word as if it might have another application.
"And if you keep your eyes and ears
open when you get to town, you may be of use
to him. Keith will help you. The people to be
watched are Mr CasseroU and Mrs Rhymer. Lady
Adela will tell you where to write to me, and you
shall hear from us the moment we arrive."

And the two girls hurried off, escaping the
formality of special adieux under cover of the
general pressure of events.

The fate of Lord Sark affected Messrs Lauriola
and CasseroU only in the degree in which it
might influence their financial arrangements and
damage their pockets. And they had much to
say to each other on their way to town. Laurina,
who had an interest in the Grandesella and

Muckle combination, being in the difficult position
of having to make up his mind whether to
throw over his friends and join the Casseroll
movement, or trust to Sark's recovery and final
escape from his present difficulties by fulfilling
the arrangement to which he was honourably
pledged. The Baroness and Madame Lauriola,
each inwardly speculating whether it would pay
best to fight their way in society as friends or
rivals, were cementing the forms of a hollow
intimacy by sympathetic remarks on the recent
lamentable occurrence, which Madame Lauriola
had heard of, not altogether without a secret
satisfaction ; for she felt that the fascinations of
her youth and beauty could scarcely compensate
for the aristocratic connection, however distant,
which the Baroness enjoyed, and which Sark's
death would tend so materially to weaken.
There was one subject, however, upon which
they could exchange views with a delightful
freedom and sense of luxury, if not with actual
unanimity. To both, Mrs Rhymer was an object
of interest and curiosity : to Madame Lauriola
she was, in addition, one of aversion ; while the
Baroness professed a guarded friendship in a certain
deprecatory tone, defending Mrs Rhymer just

sufficiently to call forth the severe criticisms on
her friend's general conduct and morality which
it did her feminine heart good to hear.

'' Depend upon it, Baroness," said Madame
Lauriola, "a woman like Mrs Rhymer does not
easily forgive such treatment as she seems to
have received from Lord Sark. In one way or
other she will be avenged. She has too much the
instinct of an adventuress — I might almost say
of the demi-monde — to treat him with the dignity
of a woman of the world."

Indeed I think you are mistaken in supposing
Mrs Rhymer to be a vindictive woman," returned
the Baroness, who had good reason for
knowing the contrary, from the admissions she
had extorted from Casseroll ; " and I am sure
I should never have allowed her intimacy with
my daughter had I not assured myself that her
friendship for Lord Sark arose merely from a
sympathy of taste, and was of a purely Platonic
character. Poor thing ! I am sure, in spite of
the little coldness which seems to have arisen
between them, that she will be dreadfully distressed
to hear the news. I shall go and call
upon her the first thing tomorrow."

But the Baroness had another visit to pay

first ; for she was alarmed at the turn affairs
had taken financially, and at the threatened
collapse of the negotiations, with the details
of which, as we have seen, she had become
familiar in Paris, and the pecuniary advantages
of which she was not disposed to allow to slip
from her without a struggle — for she was a
woman who entertained a strong belief in the
power of money, and of the necessity of making
as much of it as possible. She was therefore
exceedingly anxious to hear from Muckle the
real state of the case, and drove to the office on
the following morning with an unpleasant suspicion
that, for some reason or other, he had not
watched the interests of the firm, in the absence
of its senior partner, with his ordinary vigilance.
Eichard Muckle had not long before arrived at
his office, and was indulging in a sentimental
day-dream, and wondering why he had not heard
from Stella, when he was somewhat rudely disturbed
by the entrance of the Baroness.

I only arrived last night from Copley
Grange," she said, " and have come straight here,
I wanted to see you at once about this dreadful
business. First, I want to know, if Sark
dies, whether there is any one else who can

carry out his engagements ; secondly, if he lives,
whether there is anybody that can act for him ;
thirdly, in either case, whether there is anything
seriously to be apprehended from this counter-agitation
among the shareholders, the particulars
of which I have obtained from young CasseroU
but of course I could not rely upon them ; and
fourthly, whether, if there is any real danger,
what steps you have taken to meet it."

If you expect me to answer all those questions
with the fluency with which you have put
them, I'm afraid you'll be disappointed, Laura,"
said Muckle, yawning. " I saw Sark before he
left on his unfortunate journey for Ireland, and
telegraphed your husband the results of our
interview."

And what were they ? "

He wanted time, and he seems likely to get
eternity," he returned, with a smile of grim satisfaction
at his joke.

"And what becomes of the transfer of the
Company ? "

Oh, I'm afraid the Company will get blown
up, like its chairman, before all its rights, privileges,
and concessions can be transferred."

And you can talk of a fatal accident to Lord

Sark, which is likely to be attended with serious
pecuniary loss to us, as if it was all a capital
joke ! I confess I don't understand your conduct
during the last week, Richard. You overwhelm
me with threats and menaces; insist upon
my going into the country to force Altera to
accept you as a husband, then write and tell me
you have changed your mind ; allow Sark to slip
through your hands, and go to Ireland without
forcing him to fulfil his engagements ; stand idly
by and see a conspiracy formed to ruin him,
when it is most important to us he should not
be ruined; keep the Baron in ignorance of everything
that is going on, and sit here twiddling a
paper-knife and staring at the ceiling like an
idiot, and then try to explain your conduct by
profane and heartless jokes. Are you in love,
or is your brain softening? If you think you
are likely to win Stella Walton for a wife, let me
tell you that you are uncommonly mistaken,"
added the Baroness, spitefully.

"Are you aware that Sark proposed to her,
and that she refused him?" he said.

"No; and I don't believe it."

"Possibly Altera could give you some information
on the subject which would lead you

to change your mind. Meantime, perhaps you
will allow me to be the best judge of my own
affairs."

But they are my affairs as well as yours. I
shall telegraph to the Baron to come over at
once ; " and the Baroness flounced out of the
room and drove straight to Mrs Rhymer's.

"Mrs Rhymer's gone out of town, my lady,"
said the servant.

The Baroness was particular about being always
called "my lady" by servants.

What address did she leave ? "

She didn't leave no address, my lady."

Then you don't know where she has gone ?
Try and think ; " and the Baroness, who was
standing in the hall, significantly handled her
purse.

"Well, I think she's gone to Ireland, my lady
leastwise, I know the tickets was took for
Holyhead."

As she turned from the door she met Mr
Casseroll.

It's no use, — the bird has flown, Mr Casseroll.
Don't you think, now, that you had better
suspend operations with reference to this unfortunate
Company of Lord Sark's until we hear

something more definite from Ireland ? Come
and see me tomorrow, Mr CasseroU," she added,
insinuatingly : " the Baron will be back from
Paris, and I really think we could arrive at
a compromise which might be profitable to all
of us."

CasseroU, who had already had flies thrown to
him in the same direction by Lauriola, and began
to perceive that he might play an important part
as an intermediary between these great financiers
and the leaders of the opposition which he had
been the means of creating, readily consented.

Let me see," pursued the Baroness ; " the
Baron will come over by the night train. Come
and breakfast with us, and if you don't mind,
if you are going back to the city, look in upon
Muckle and ask him to come too. I will write
a note to Lauriola, and we will have a comfortable
talk over the whole matter ; by that time
we shall have heard more definite news of Lord
Sark."

The same night the Baroness received the
following note from the young stockbroker : —

'dear Baroness, — I thought it best not to
wait till we should meet at breakfast tomorrow

to tell you that, on calling at Mr Muckle's office
in the city this afternoon, I found that he was
absent, and had left word that he had gone to
the country, and would not be back for some
days. — Yours truly, T. Casseroll."

Chapter XXIX.

MRS CLYMER MEETS A MAN AND A "BROTHER."

A woman's vengeance is rarely logical. No
sooner did Mrs Rhymer begin to realise that the
suggestions which she had made in a moment of
passion to Dunleavy might result fatally to Sark,
than the fear that his life might be in danger
took possession of her. A strong reaction set in.
She reproached herself with having been too precipitate
— with having yielded too quickly to an
impulse of rage and despair, when, after all, with
time and perseverance, there might be no reason
why she should not regain his affections. He
had admitted that no rival stood in her way.
If now, she reflected, she could prove her devotion
by being the means of saving his life, he
need never know that her inspiration had endangered
it ; and the very peril which she had

contrived, might thus lead to the full realisation
of her desires, provided always that lie was
not too late to avert it. Under the conflicting
emotions engendered by these hopes and fears,
the bijou residence became unendurable, and
within twenty-four hours of Sark's departure from
London she was hurrying after him to Ireland.

It was dark, with a light drizzling rain, when
she reached Holyhead, and she was alighting
from the train with her hands full, and somewhat
embarrassed by the slipperiness of the steps,
when a gentleman passing politely offered his
hand. The light of a lamp fell full on his face
as he did so ; and Mrs Rhymer, with a little
scream, made an effort to shrink back, lost her
footing, and would have fallen heavily, had she
not been received by a stalwart pair of arms, and
placed lightly on her feet.

"There, ma'am, you're none the worse. By
thunder, why, it's Polly ! " ejaculated the owner
of the arms, still keeping one of them round her
fair form. " Give us a kiss, old girl, just to
show there's no ill feeling." And without waiting
for a reply, this unceremonious individual
proceeded to take it from the unresisting lips of
the Rhymer.

Oil, Ned," she sighed, '' how you startled me!
Terence Dunleavy told me you were in America."

Well, you see I am here — good luck to me,
I may say, since it has brought us so lovingly
together; and it's just that same Terence I'm after
at this minute. I got to Liverpool yesterday,
and found a message telling me to meet him in
Dublin, for I had wired him that I was called
over to England unexpectedly. Where are you
bound for ? You're not the sort of one that used
to like travelling alone."

Give me time to collect my thoughts, Ned,
and m tell you all about it ; but it has flurried
me a little meeting you so unexpectedly. Terence
tells me you are doing a large business in
dynamite — blowing up people, and that kind of
thing."

Here, let me stow you away in a comfortable
corner," said her companion, without answering
this remark. " You used not to be sea-sick ; we
can have a quiet talk crossing over — it'll make
the time pass."

And the speaker began to make a dexterous
arrangement of shawls and rugs, that showed he
was no novice at travelling. He was a smooth-shaved,
straight-nosed, bright-eyed man, with

VOL. II. L

thin lips, a pointed clin, and somewhat sallow-cheeks,
but a remarkably fine head and brow,
betokening considerable intellectual powers. He
was quick in his movements, but deliberate of
sjDeech'^— evidently a man not easily discomposed,
and of strong nerves.

There, little girl ! Why, it reminds me of old
times to be sitting alongside of you so cosy-like."

How long is it since we parted, Ned ? "

A matter of five years ; and it wasn't my
fault if we didn't stay hitched till now."

"We won't go back on that," said Mrs Rhymer.
But perhaps I ought to remind you, now that
we are nearing the coast of Ireland, that I bear
your name, Ned, and am your lawful wife."

Well, now, I don't know how that matter
stands," he replied deliberately, moving his
mouth like a man who has once had a habit of
chewing tobacco, but has now given it up. " You
know I married again, Polly."

And have placed yourself completely in my
power by so doing. There is a very heavy penalty
attached to such irregularities on this side
of the Atlantic, however common they may be
on the other."

Well, whenever you have a month to spare,

come across, and we'll have it all put legally
square. I can get a divorce in Illinois, where I
live, any time in an hour. What's making you
so anxious about it, after letting five years go
and saying nothing? Do you want to marry
again, Polly?"

Possibly ; and as I don't want any inconvenient
questions asked until I am legally freed
from you, perhaps, Ned, you'll be good enough,
while we are likely to meet, to change your name."

"Well, that will be difficult," he rejoined.
I've come especially over to see some one that
has known me since I was a boy ; besides, there's
Terence and the others that I'm doing business
with."

I should have thought your business was
just a kind that made a change of names very
convenient sometimes. At any rate, if we are
to be friends and not enemies, you must agree to
this; and I want to be friends, Ned — it would
be so disagreeable for me to have you put in
prison."

"It would take two of you, clever as you are,
Polly," replied Mr Rhymer, contemptuously. " I
thought you knew me well enough not to try
threats, little girl. Take that back, or the first

thing I do when I get to London is to call on
the American Minister as Edward Rhymer."

"Very well, Ned, I take it back."

That's good. Now, Polly, what name would
you like me to take ? "

Oh, please yourself."

'' Well, seeing my baggage is marked E. C,
you may call me Mr Collings. Now, is there
anything more I can do for you, Polly? Fm
pretty flush of cash ; a thousand dollars or so,
for the sake of old times, wouldn't make much
difference to me."

'' Oh, thank you, Ned, you were always

generous."

So were you," he retorted, drily.

There is one thing I want you to do," she
went on ; "I want to introduce you to a great
friend of mine, the Earl of Sark."

Stop," he interrupted. " Sark — Sark, — where
under heaven have I heard that name before ? "
And he continued to repeat the name as she
pursued — •

He is now in Ireland ; and I want you to tell
him that you are my brother, and that you know
that I am a free woman, and that there is no
legal impediment to my marrying again — because

there won't be, Ned, if I run across and have
our affair arranged ; and you can tell him that I
have come into some property in America, and
must go and see about it ; and then I will go over
and get the thousand dollars you are so kind as
to offer me. Couldn't you make it two, Ned ?
It would seem more worth going over for."

Polly, if you marry this Lord Sark I'll make
it five. Maybe we shall be able to do some
business through him with the British Government.
Anyhow, if you will work for a connection
for me, you can have the money. You maybe
able, as my Lady Sark, to help me in my line
of business with foreign Governments. There's
a deal of money in it, Polly. You find out
what's going on, at the same time, among the
Socialist chaps. I can't always trust Terence.
And these Irishmen, they're always quarrelling
among themselves, and giving orders and countermanding
them, and ordering things and not
paying for 'em, and accusing each other of stealing
the money. I'm right glad I met you, Polly.
We can do a great business together if you can
bring this marriage off; and you may count on
me to help you. Meantime, we'll pass as brother
and sister."

'' Do you know Terence's address in Dublin ? "
she asked ; '* because we must see him at once.
I am afraid lie may have misunderstood what I
said to him about Lord Sark, and that something
may happen to him."

*' To which of them ? Terence ? "

No ; Lord Sark. He has gone over to his
property on business, and I'm so afraid he maybe
shot. It's terrible how they are shooting
landlords now."

Yes," replied Rhymer ; " it's a clumsy way
of doing things. I've got a new invention forgetting
rid of them ; that's one of the things I've
come over about, — not but what I would much
rather take orders from the landlords to blow up
the peasantry. Don't you think, through this lord
of yours, that you could manage to do anything
for me in that line, Polly ? Seems to me these
Irish landlords are a poor-spirited lot, — got no
grit in 'em. Now I could supply 'em with processes
of eviction that would make it impossible
for the tenants that were evicted ever to hold
back their rents again in this world ; and I defy
any one to find out the landlord that served 'em,
or the way they were served. I tell you, Polly,
I would much sooner blow up the tenants than

the landlords, because, you see, I should be sure
of my pay ; but trade don't take that channel, — ■
more's the pity."

Well, Ned, you must make the best of things
as they are," said Polly, philosophically ; " and if
I marry Sark, I will do what I can to help you.
You had better send to Terence as soon as we
arrive, to tell him to come and see us ; and just
watch my lead, and follow it, when I explain
matters to him."

]airs Rhymer said this as they were driving to
the hotel, and was about to send a message to
Dunleavy, requesting an immediate interview,
when she was startled by an ejaculation from Mr
Rhymer, who had just purchased a morning paper,
which contained in staring capitals a notice of
the tragic occurrence of the nio;ht before.

Holloa, Polly ! " he exclaimed, " I am afraid
you'll be behind time with that marriage of
yours. Listen to this ; " and he read the paragraph.
" Great Caesar ! what a mess they must
have made of it ! If they had known how to
handle that stuff properly, there shouldn't be a
square inch of him left ; and they say he is only
mortally wounded. Why, little gii'l, what's the
matter ? "

This query was called forth by the fact that
Mrs Rhymer had suddenly subsided on the floor
in a dead faint.

"No shamming about it," pursued Mr Rhymer
musingly, and turning in his mouth his imaginary
quid. " First time I ever saw her do such a
thing. I didn't believe she had it in her to
care about anybody but herself to that amount.
Guess the best way of bringing a woman out of
a fainting fit is to let her come to of herself.
What queer fritters women are ! Now I might
have blown myself higher than a kite at the
time she was pretending to love me most, but
she never would have done that for me. Perhaps
it was because he was a lord. Maybe some
water would do her a little good, with a nips of
whisky in it. Here, Polly, look up, little girl.
He's only mortally wounded, so he ain't dead !
and where there's life there's hope."

Mrs Rhymer opened her eyes, took a sip of
whisky - and - water, and murmured, " Send for
Terence at once."

I'll go myself for him. Don't you go fainting
away again while I'm away. What fools, to
go wounding a poor man like that ! Astonishing
to think that Polly could love any one so much,"

he muttered ; and until he reached Dunleavy's
door, Mr Rhymer seemed equally perplexed to
account for the stupidity of men in not being
able to blow up a fellow-man more skilfully, and
for the capacity of women unexpectedly to develop
such strong emotions of affection. Nobody
had ever heard of Terence Dunleavy at the
address which that gentleman had furnished
Mr Rhymer by wire.

Sorra a Terence Dunleavy did I vir hear tell
of," said the shock-headed porter of the obscure
second - class hotel, in answer to Mr Rhymer's
inquiries. That gentleman refrained instantly
from making further comment, and turned on
his heel with a low whistle.

Got too hot for him already, and he only
arrived yesterday morning. He must be mixed
up in this affair of Polly's lord," he mused, as he
retraced his steps. " If they hadn't been in such
a hurry, they might have done it better, maybe.
I wonder what Polly will do now."

But he was not left long in doubt. "Ned,"
she said, when she received his report, " we must
not lose a moment. Find out when the next
train goes to Killboggin, county Contrary."

Am I to come with you ? " asked Rhymer,

divided between a desire to find out why the explosion
had not been more successful, and a certain
shrinking from approaching too closely the
scene of a crime for which he had furnished the
materials.

"Certainly; I need you now especially," she
replied. " Oh, if I could but be the means of
saving his life ! "

All right, Polly ; I am always ready to sacrifice
myself in the cause of humanity and beauty,"
he added, politely. And five hours afterwards
they descended at the station of Killboggin, where
they were narrowly inspected by a strong force
of police drawn up on the platform, and where
they found many of the county and Government
officials already assembled.

CHAPTEK XXX.

NURSING UNDER DIFFICULTIES.

Mrs Rhymer was not a woman to be denied
access to Lord Sark's bedside — though, under the
circumstances, she had to employ all her diplomacy
to get there. Fortunately she was a sufficiently
public character — thanks to her position
in the world of fashion, and the notoriety she
enjoyed in the society papers as a beauty — to
be known by name to some of the gentlemen
present ; and her brother, Mr CoUings, played
a most useful part in affording her that fraternal
protection of which a lone lady, rushing to the
bedside of a wounded nobleman, stood in need.
And indeed her promptitude stood her in good
stead. The trained nurse that had been telegraphed
for had, through some mistake, not yet
arrived ; and the doctor, to whom she offered her

services, was only too glad of an assistant who
promised to be so capable and intelligent. What
she chiefly feared was the effect upon Lord Sark's
nerves which her unexpected presence might
produce. "What is the exact condition of your
patient, doctor ? " she asked.

Well, my dear madam," he answered, " the
shock was so great that I feared he might have
succumbed to its first effects ; but every hour
brings hope with it. He is perfectly conscious,
but, alas ! perfectly blind. Whether he will remain
so, it is impossible yet to tell. His left
arm and side are severely injured, but I trust
that amputation will not be necessary. The
wound in the side is the most dangerous. The
face has been damaged, but not so seriously as to
remain permanently disfigured, with careful treatment.
In the meantime, utterance is painful and
difficult. I must warn you, as an old friend of
Lord Sark's, that you must prepare yourself fora
painful spectacle."

"It is just because I am an old friend of his,"
she said, with a sad smile which awoke a profound
sympathy on the part of the susceptible
little doctor, " that I have a special request to
make, and this is, that Lord Sark should be kept

in utter ignorance of my presence here. Let me
be called nurse, and treated as one."

We have a professional nurse coming ; and
have just received a telegram from Lady Adela
Washington to say that she expects to arrive here
tomorrow night." And seeing that Mrs Rhymer's
brow slightly clouded at this intelligence, he
murmured to himself, " Evidently a little family
romance. My sympathies are all with the first
comer," and he politely led the way up-stairs.

** I shall probably only stay till the arrival of
some of the family," she remarked ; " and perhaps
my brother, Mr Collings, may be put up in
the castle somewhere."

"It is scarcely worth while mentioning the
matter to my colleague, who has just arrived. I
will take all the responsibility, my dear lady,"
said the doctor, who, in his professional capacity,
looked forward to a delightful familiarity of
intercourse with the beautiful and interesting
nurse ; " and I am sure that Lady Adela, when
she arrives, will only be too glad to retain your
services. Meantime, if you will allow me, I
will go and inform my patient that the nurse
has come."

If compassion is akin to love, love certainly

is a wonderful stimulant to compassion. And
when Mrs Rhymer looked upon the victim of her
vengeance, lying wrecked upon his bed in the
prime of his strength and manly beauty, it was
only by an effort of most powerful self-control
that she prevented herself from falling on her
knees at his bedside, bursting into an agony of
tears, and pouring out her soul in a mixed
torrent of remorse and devotion, of self-reproach
and passionate protestations of her love. But
although the room was darkened, she felt the
doctor's eye gleaming through the gloom upon
her with sympathetic curiosity ; and she hoped
he did not see the trembling of her limbs and
the pallor of her countenance. It seemed to her
providential that she was not called upon to
speak, for she could not have trusted herself to
break the silence, disturbed only by the heavy
breathing, sometimes prolonged into a moan, of
the suffering patient. His face and eyes were
bandaged, and his left arm and side swathed in
the wrap pages which it would be her duty to
attend to. She sat down silently by the head of
the bed, and placed her handkerchief to her eyes.
This, she felt, was a feminine weakness which the
doctor would understand and think legitimate

under the circumstances. After a few moments,
during which Mrs Rhymer was passing through
some internal experiences which were new to her,
and which may not impossibly exercise a favourable
influence upon her character in time to
come, the doctor beckoned to her.

I must now, my dear lady — my dear nurse,
I should say — give you some directions in regard
to our patient. You will first, please, assist meas
it is time to change the bandages and dress
the wounds again."

For four hours did Mrs Rhymer keep her watch
with an assiduity and tenderness which quite
justified the doctor's acceptance of her services —
her bosom a prey to the conflicting emotions excited
by the sufferings of her patient and by her
own. As it was, above all things, essential to
Lord Sark's safety that he should be spared any
mental shock or agitation, she could devise noway
by which she could maintain her position
by his bedside after the arrival of the first members
of his family, now that it was impossible to
obtain from him the expression of his desire that
she should do so. She foresaw that the meeting,
even with gentle Lady Adela, would be a stormy
one, as she was well aware of the existence of her

antipathy, which her ladyship had taken no pains
to conceal. Moreover, what right could she
claim, in the presence of Lord Sark's own sister,
to be his nurse? She wondered whether Sir
George would accompany his wife, and whether
she might not be successful with him. Then her
mind reverted to the fact that Sark's cousin. Bob
Alderney, might not improbably form one of the
party; and this suggested a whole train of reflections,
connected with the two Californian girls
and Altera, which were by no means calculated
to restore her equanimity. If only she could, in
some way, make her ground secure while the
field was clear ! She determined to repose a
partial confidence in the doctor, and see whether
he could not suggest a method of sounding the
patient on the subject without producing an
undue agitation.

I expect the Dublin nurse in half an hour,"
whispered the doctor, '' and then you must really
allow her to relieve you : you will be quite unfit
for further attendance on his lordship if you exhaust
yourself in this way immediately on your
arrival."

Alas ! my dear doctor," she replied, in her
most winning tones, "it is just because I fear

that my services will so soon be dispensed with,
that I am anxious not to spare myself while I am
allowed to be here. I feel convinced that unless
Lord Sark himself expresses a wish that I should
continue to nurse him, Lady Adela will insist
upon taking entire charge of him."

"Are you not on good terms with her ladyship
? " he asked, bluntly.

Well, frankly, no. Lord Sark and I have
been great friends for some time, and she has
been jealous of what she imagines to be my
influence over him — though, I am sure, I have
never tried to use it except for his good."

Hum ! " mused the doctor, with a quizzical
glance ; " I am afraid my word would go for very
little, my dear nurse. In what way do you
think could I assist you ? "

Could you not sound Lord Sark as to
whether he would not like me to attend him ?
Say that you have received a telegram from me
from Dublin, offering to come at once if he
wishes it. Unfortunately, the last time we met
we had a little quarrel ; but with his life trembling
in the balance, he would not, I am sure, continue
to harbour any bitter feeling towards me."

Listen," said the doctor — " he is moaning ; he

VOL. 11. M

is beofinnmo; to recover from the effects of the
anodyne I gave him to lull the pain, and probably
wants something. Gro into the next room
for a moment, and I will see what can be done."

This conversation had been carried on in a
whisper in a corner of the large bedroom, and
Mrs Rhymer slipped silently out of it as the
doctor approached his patient.

How do we feel now ? " he asked — " a little
easier?" But an inarticulate murmur was the
only reply. " Your sister, Lady Adela washington,
will be here to - morrow," he went on.
"Meantime we need another nurse badly. A
friend is often much better under these circumstances
than a professional," he continued, after
a pause, gently placing his finger on Lord Sark's
pulse to feel how the suggestion he was about to
make might affect him. "Though professionals
are in some respects most valuable, what we need
is a judicious combination of the experience of
the one and the devotion of the other. You
follow me ? "

Lord Sark slightly moved his head in sign of
assent.

I have received a telegram from a lady in
Dublin who seems to be an old friend of yours.

and who has kindly offered her services ; but
before accepting them, I should like to know
whether it would be agreeable to you that I
should do so." (that's a thumper," said the
doctor to himself, " but it's justified by professional
necessity") " Now," he said, placing his
left hand in Sark's while he kept the right on
his pulse, " you need not make an effort to
speak ; but if, when I mention the name, you
approve, press my hand — and if you don't, draw
it away. The lady's name is Mrs Rhymer."

No ! " ejaculated Sark, with a groan that
almost amounted to a shout, as he drew his hand
quickly away, and the doctor felt the pulse
bounding under his touch.

Soho ! gently. Why, our strength is coming
back ! I was quite glad to hear that energetic
No,' my lord. Don't be the least alarmed ;
there is not the slightest danger of the lady's
coming here if you don't wish it. I will telegraph
at once to decline her osier with thanks."
{" God help me, how I am lying ! " he muttered.)
Here, take a little of this. You are decidedly
improving. We shall have a consultation as soon
as Dr Crooks arrives. Meantime my colleague,
who came this morning, takes a decidedly hopeful

view of the case. Now try and rest a little ; "
and the doctor withdrew silently to make his
report to Mrs Rhymer.

I am sorry that I can't bring you very favourable
news," he said. " Lord Sark seems to
entertain a strong objection to your presence.
I put it bluntly, my dear" — the doctor forgot
to add "nurse" this time, in his anxiety to spare
Mrs Rhymer's feelings — " but it must be kept
a profound secret from him that you are here.
I am afraid you must disappear before Lady
Adela's arrival, or you will get me into a terrible
scrape, as I was obliged to pledge my word
that I would telegraph to Dublin to you not to
come ; so you see my position. It would really
relieve my mind very much, Mrs Rhymer, if you
would not stay after the nurse arrives : if by any
chance Lord Sark were to discover that you were
here, the consequences might be terrible. You
cannot think how it pains me to urge this point ; "
and he took her hand and pressed it in a fatherly
way — for to do the doctor justice, he would much
rather that she could have stayed, and felt that
they were both making a sacrifice.

I accept my fate without a murmur," she replied
; " but I shall be too tired to start at once.

It is now getting late. You must let me force
myself upon Lord Sark's hospitality for the
night. I will not enter his room again without
your permission ; but there is no danger of Lady
Adela coming before I can make my escape in
the morning. In the meantime, so much may
happen, I want to know the result of your consultation
; and perhaps tomorrow, before I leave,
you will be able to judge more definitely as to
his state. It would save me so much suspense,
dear doctor, to let me stay ; " and this time Mrs
Rhymer put her hand in his. " Do you know,"
she said, sweetly, " that I have not eaten anything
for nearly ten hours ? "

Bless my soul ! what have I been thinking
about ? Dinner has been ordered for your
brother and yourself, and should be ready in half
an hour. You will find him in the drawing-room.
There's the carriage with the nurse and the
doctor. Let me show you the way;" and the
doctor ushered Mrs Rhymer into a sitting-room,
where, seated in an arm-chair, with his feet on the
fender, before a cheerful blaze, Mr Rhymer, alias
Collings, had buried himself in the sporting
experiences of Mr Soapy Sponge.

Well, Polly," he remarked, looking up, as the

doctor left the room, " come at last. How goes
it with the exploded aristocrat ? Is there any
prospect of hash in this old castle ? "

Oh, Ned, don't be so heartless ! I hope he
will live. Yes, we shall have some dinner immediately.
Then we shall sleep here, and go back
to Dublin the first thing in the morning."

Oh, that's it, is it ? And what about my telling
him you are free to marry him, and your late
husband is married again, and all that story ? "

Well, we must put that off. He is not in a
condition to hear anything — scarcely conscious,
in fact. And some of the family are coming tomorrow,
and it might make a muss if I stayed on
and met them. But there will be other people
I shall want you to tell that story to, Ned, who
can tell him afterwards. It has become important
that my social position should be more
clearly defined. I see I made a mistake in
neglecting to straighten matters before. But
English society is so easy; they don't ask
questions, especially if you are an American and
can amuse them, and have good looks, and understand
how to rise from aesthetics into flirtation.
High art, pluck, beauty, and a foreign extraction,
cover a multitude of sins."

What puzzles me, Polly," said her companion,
whose mind was apparently running in a different
channel, "is, how the darned thing missed
fire and didn't blow his head off. Did you find
out ? "

No, Ned ; I never thought of inquiring. The
doctor said it must have been something very
small, as they could find no traces of it left in
the bed."

Yes, it covers its own tracks, that's the beauty
of it. But it was just like those blundering
Irishmen, — they put it under the clothes, I suppose,
instead of under the pillow, where the even
pressure, when you put your head down, makes
it go off, and carry away pillow, head, and all.
Of course, if you go putting it down among the
bedclothes, you can't calculate on what it will
do lying about loose, — depends, then, on how it
happens to be struck. But, bless you, Ireland's
no market in comparison to Russia, — they don't
bungle things there. I'm sending a consignment
over there now, that will wake up old Europe
when they get them fairly to going. That's one
of the things I came over about. Did you ever
think about cause and effect, Polly? Because
here I am, a mighty insignificant-looking cause,

sitting with my feet cocked up over your lord's
fire ; but I tell you, when you come to read in
the newspapers about the effects I've produced,
you won't be astonished at its giving a man a
sort of feeling of power he don't like to part with.
I suppose Bismarck's the biggest man in Europe ;
but I've got tricks in my pocket that would play
him out, when it comes to creating a general
sensation. It takes very small men to pull the
biggest wires nowadays, thanks to the progress
of invention and the arts of civilisation ; but what
beats me, Polly, is, who is it that pulls the small
men ? That's what I wonder when these inventions
come into my head, and I sell them to those
that calculate to overturn empires with them.
How do they get into my head, and why are
they allowed to get there when they're bound todo
such a lot of mischief ? Well, it's no affair of
mine. I'm not responsible for inventing things ;
I've got to make a living. Live and dont let
live, — that's my motto."

Ned," said Mrs Rhymer, " shut up ! I've got
muzzles in life enough of my own to solve. I
don't want to hear yours. The way you talk
makes me feel quite uncomfortable, particularly
when I think of my poor friend up-stairs. Here's

dinner. You can behave like a gentleman when
you choose : act your best now, because we shall
meet some of the doctors ; and for your own sake,
keep oft' the topic of explosives and the tragedy
here. I am very tired, so I shall go to bed
immediately after dinner, and we'll take the first
train to Dublin in the morning."

CHAPTER XXXI.

HANNAH Heads SOMETHING TO HER ADVANTAGE.

It was past miclniglit. Mrs Rhymer had long
forgotten her troubles and anxieties in a sound
and dreamless sleep, the doctor having been
especially careful to see that the necessary
directions had been given for her early waking
and departure on the following morning. The
dining-room had long been deserted; but Mr
CoUings, to call him by his assumed name, had
been initiated into the mysteries of a comfortable
smoking-room, where the doctors, who were
amused by the originality of his conversation
and his knowledge of certain branches of science,
from time to time came to smoke a cigar and
keep him company. It was the habit of this
ingenious gentleman, on such occasions, to passas
a professional electrician; and having great

fluency of speech, and a very considerable knowledge
of the subject, he seldom failed, especially
when under the influence of strong liquors, of
which there was an abundant supply in the
smoking-room, to entertain his hearers. He was,
moreover, a person who was in the habit of
indulging; in what he called " dog; snores," — in
other words, of sleeping either by day or night,
whenever the fancy took him ; and the advantages
of the smoking-room seeming greater than
those of bed, he sat up without manifesting any
disposition to retire until it approached the small
hours of the morning. He was holding forth to
one of the doctors on the merits of a self-steering
torpedo, when their attention was arrested by the
sound of wheels on the gravel. Shortly after
there was the noise of an arrival in the hall,
and the doctor went out to see who had come.

Ned being a person who usually lived with his
eyes and ears open, was more decided than ever to
devote himself to whisky-and-water and cigars,
and waited to hear who the new-comers might be ;
but no doctor returning to report, and his curiosity
increasing with the delay, he determined
to set forth on a voyage of discovery, which
he could always explain by pretending to be in

search of his bedroom. He had crossed the hall
and was proceeding along a passage towards the
sound of voices, when he saw advancing towards
him a tall female figure carrying a candle. " One
of the new arrivals, I suppose," said Ned to himself.
" I wonder whether this can be the lord's
sister come before her time. Polly will be in a
fix, I guess, if it is. Great Caesar ! " he exclaimed,
as they met ; " why, it's Aunt Hannah
herself!"

So, Ned Rhymer," said Miss Coffin, without
showing a particle of surprise or emotion, " you
have come over at last, — in consequence of my
letter, I suppose ; but what are you a-doing' in
this house ? I mistrust you're here for no good.
Curious," she said, musing to herself; "seemed
all the time as if it wasn't for Lordy I felt bound
to hurry so. I suppose it was you I had to
meet here. You know what I wanted you over
for?"

How should I ? " he replied. " Your letter
was like a message from a Delphic oracle. You
said I ran great risks if I delayed on the other
side, and could make great profits if I came to
this one ; and as I only once before in my life
received a letter from you, just of the same kind,

and it all came true as gospel, I did not dare to
disobey this one, especially as mine is the kind
of business that is made up of great risks and
great profits : besides, I had other reasons for
coming over."

'^ Well, a man with two wives, both alive, and
his pockets full of dynamite, has more risk than
profit, seems to me," said Hannah. "But it's
cold standing here ; and I have a little to say to
you, and you have a great deal to say to me.
There's a little parlour with a fire in it — a
woodward ' they call it — ofi" my bedroom, where
we can talk. Here, Bobby," she called out to
that gentleman, who was standing at the other
end of the passage, wondering at her delay —
come here. This is my nephew by marriage,
come to meet me by special appointment, and
we have a deal to say to each other that has to
be said to-night. You go and help watch in
Lordy's room, and call me if I'm wanted, otherwise
I won't disturb him to-night ; and you had
best not tell him I am here. I ain't a-going' to
bed anyway. Now, Ned " — and Miss Coffin led
the way to the apartment in question.

Sit down," she said. " I suppose you know
that your wife Polly, as left you five years ago,

is a-keepin' up a grand style in London as a
fashionable beauty?"

I know that she is sleeping under this very
roof to-night," he answered.

My sakes, but she's a smart one ! When did
she hear the news ? "

We were in Dublin when we heard it. I met
her accidentally coming across from Holyhead.
The intelligence seemed to upset her so that she
went off into an honest faint, and insisted oncoming
down here at once. She seems to want
to marry this lord, as she asked me to pass asher
brother, and tell him, when I saw him, that
she had been legally divorced. Then she was
to go over with me to America later to get it
properly fixed ; so just now I go by the name
of Collings, if you'd kindly remember. I should
like to see poor Polly well married, and told her
I'd help her all I could," he added, in his own
justification. " How do you come to get mixed
up with her and her concerns ? " he asked. " She
ain't one of your sort."

That don't matter," said Hannah : " she never
guessed who I was ; but I made her out the first
day I set eyes on her."

There was no reason she should," he answered.

I never spoke about poor Clara to lier, nor yet
about Clara's relations. There was no way for
her to know that my first wife was a niece of
yours. It was a matter of ten years after Clara
died before I married her ; and after three years
we couldn't agree, and she left me. We lived in
Europe all the time travelling about. I picked
her up in Chili, where, I believe, she was born.
Her father was in the Civilian army or navy, I
forget which."

Miss Coffin listened to his recital with an unmoved
countenance, but with her eyes fixed on
him as he rattled on with the utmost unreserve,
as a man reckless by nature, and too confident
in himself and his resources to love mystery
when it was not needed. Indeed it seemed a
relief and satisfaction to meet some one to whom,
from early association, he could talk freely of the
events of his own life. She knew that he merely
needed the cue to be given to him to ramble on.

It's many years since we met, Ned, and we
parted angrily then. I thought I never could
forgive you for your conduct to Clara ; but time
brings forgiveness — and, poor darling', I know
she would be the first to say ' Forgive him, aunty
he was young, and didn't know no better.' "

That's so," lie replied, huskily. " She was
the only woman I ever loved — more shame tome.
You may forgive me, but I can never
forgive myself."

There was a long pause, during which she
watched him narrowly ; and he turned uneasily
in his chair, apparently in doubt.

Aunty," he said at last, " there's many a
time during these twenty years I've been wanting
to come and see you, and tell you something
that was on my mind ; but, either from pride or
shame, I wouldn't be the first to make the offer,
and I blame myself. It's about poor Clara's
aunt Fanny, your youngest sister."

What ! " exclaimed Hannah, in a voice of
the most painful surprise, and for the first time
her face worked with an emotion which she
vainly endeavoured to control. She drew her
chair to his, and clasped his hand. " Oh, Ned,
Ned ! to keep back that from me, and you
knowing how I loved her, and never ceased
grieving' and wondering' ! Quick, tell me."

I'm sorry, aunty — I am indeed. It's a
curious story. It was about six months after
poor Clara died that I went for the first time to
Europe ; that's a matter of eighteen or nineteen

years ago. I was five-and-twenty then, and
went over to travel for a firm that manufactured
the newest rifles of that day. One day, as I
was crossing through Italy, the train I was in
broke down in a wild part of the country, and I
found myself with nothing to do at a small way-detestation.
Seeing there was an old castle nearby,
standing in the middle of gardens and vineyards,
I made inquiries if it was worth seeing,
and was told that it was lived in by an English
lady, whose husband had died only a short time
before. So I strolled along the road to get a
better look at the gardens, and saw a lady in
black coming along with a nurse and a baby ; and
when I came up to her, who should it be but
Aunt Fanny herself. It was five years since I
had seen her, and she looked so thin and changed,
I scarce knew her ; but she was always a beauty.
She gave a little scream when she saw me, and I
thought she would have fainted. Then I told
her how I came to be there, that it was only by
accident ; and she made me fetch my valise, and
stay over the night. She told me her husband
had died only six months before, and that she
had a baby, a little girl, that was only four
months old."

VOL. II. N

Do you remember whether she told you
how she named the child ? " interrupted Hannah,
breathlessly.

I remember distinctly, because it seemed
such a curious name. I wrote it down in full,
and I have kept it ever since ; and one of the
reasons that determined me to come over when
I got your letter, was to give it to you and tell
you all about it," and he took from his pocketbook
the memorandum, which he handed to
Hannah, and as he did so a little scrap of paper
fluttered to the ground unperceived. Scarcely
able to see through her blinding tears, she read
"Altera Peto." "Peto," he continued— " that
was the name of the English gentleman she
married ; and he said, before he died, that if the
child was a girl, she was to be called Altera. It
was the last word he ever spoke. Then she
went back on the old family quarrel, and her
own headstrong temper, that made her marry
Cartwright against all your wishes ; and how
they disagreed; and how she ran away with the
child so that he should not get him, and hid
away in Europe ; and how, when she heard of
his death, she was coming back with her little
boy, when he took ill, and it was in his illness

that Mr Pete was so kind to her, and comforted
her when her child's death nearly drove her to
despair. So she married him, and still kept it
secret, although meaning, when she could persuade
her husband to come, to bring him to
America ; but they were so happy in their castle,
that the time slipped by. He was a great
student and a clever man, with a large fortune,
which was all to go to his daughter ; but he
loved solitude and the climate of Italy, and she
was happy with him for a year, and then he died.
Some time before his death they had a lady
staying as a sort of companion, the widow of an
English merchant and banker who was Mr Peto's
man of business, and she was there when he
died, and I suppose remained with Aunt Fanny
afterwards, only I did not see her, as she happened
to be ill that day. She said Mr Peto had
no near relations alive ; and now I remember
why Lord Sark's name seemed known to me
when Polly mentioned it. Aunt Fanny told me
that Altera was related through his grandmother
to the noble family of Sark. Next morning I
went away, promising to keep her secret. ' As
soon as I am well enough, I shall start for
America with baby,' she said ; but she was

hardly able to come down and wish me goodbye,
lie felt so poorly, and she said she was
going back to her bed. I have often wondered
since," he added, " whether she ever got up from
it, and what became of the baby."

Do you remember the name of the English
lady who was living with her as a companion ? "
asked Hannah.

I don't think she told it to me; but we had so
much to say, I have forgotten it if she did. She
had not heard of Clara's death, and of course
wanted news of you all. And I had to tell her
some things about myself that were not true,
God help me I "

Mr Rhymer's narrative was followed by a long
pause, which Hannah broke abruptly.

'' Give me a kiss, Ned," she said. " Now go
and lie down on that couch and go to sleep while
I think. I don't want to let you out of my sight
till this Polly business is settled."

What has Polly got to do with it, aunty ?
Don't be too hard upon her."

"Just look square at me," said the old lady,
whose eyes were now as bright and glittering
as ever, and from whose countenance all traces
of emotion had disappeared. "Am I likely to

take advice from such as you, even though she
is your wife ? You do what I bid you, right
straight through this business, as you don't
understand anything about, or you'll get into
serious trouble. It's old Hannah says so, and
you'd better believe it. Now go to sleep."

And Ned, who apparently held his late wife's
aunt in considerable awe, probably from some
old association, meekly obeyed the injunction,
which a man of more sensitive nerves would
have resisted in spite of himself, and in five
minutes was fast asleep.

Chapter XXXII.

MR Callings PERFORMS A DELICATE DUTY.

For more than, an hour did Hannah sit musing
over the unexpected intelligence she had just
received, and over the new and tender light that
it had thrown upon her existence. Her thoughts
reverted to those early days when the warm
affections of her strong nature were concentrated
on the little sister, fifteen years younger than
herself, who was the life and joy of the family,
and upon whom, as she grew up to be the belle
of the village, her old father had lavished his
devotion, staring no expense to complete that
education which in Hannah had been so woefully
neglected, until, naturally highly gifted, the renown
of her beauty and accomplishments spread
far and wide, and attracted, among other suitors,
George Cartwright, the brilliant but unprincipled
politician, who wooed and won her, in spite of

the tears and entreaties of both her sisters ; and
how, too proud afterwards to acknowledge her
mistake, she had been compelled to side with her
husband in the quarrel which had led to her
final breach with her family, and more especially
with that eldest sister, whose daughter had made
a no less unfortunate choice in her union with
Edward Rhymer. But made of sterner fibre than
her niece, instead of pining to death under neglect
and ill treatment, Mrs Cartwright, who had inherited
a little money, took the decided step of
flying from the country with her child, and, eluding
all pursuit, had remained perdue, so far asher
family were concerned, until Ned had now
so suddenly revealed her history, and brought to
Hannah's beating heart the consciousness that in
Altera she had found a niece on whom the affections
which had been so honor smothered mis^ht
be lavished anew. " No wonder I felt drawer
to her," she murmured, " and seemed to feel at
times as if it was Fanny's voice I was a-listening
to, and Fanny's step I heard, and Fanny's lips
on mine, when the dear child was a-kissin' me."
So absorbed was she by this conflict of sad reminiscences
of the past with pleasurable anticipations
for the future, that it was some time before

she reacted into a passionate outburst of indignation
against the Baroness for the fraud which
had threatened to sacrifice the girl's existence
to her selfish ends, and by which she had
so successfully concealed her own identity and
adopted that of the lost sister. She saw it all
now, — the cleverly devised conspiracy, by means
of which a group of adventurers in an obscure
Italian town had been enabled to appropriate the
large fortune which of right belonged to Altera,
and to take advantage of the mystery in which
her mother's fate had become involved, to conceal
her death and pass off her lady companion,
familiar with all the circumstances of her life and
private marriage, as the widow of the deceased
Mr Peto. " Their turn will come," she muttered
and I am afraid for a moment her natural instincts
got the better of her, and the prospect
of being revenged on the wicked triumvirate
afforded her a fleeting satisfaction ; but if such
were the case, she speedily checked it, for she
went on, — " God help me for thinking of such
things, or feeling' anything but love for 'em poor
infested fritters — it's the devils in 'em as does it.
There's Ned, now, makes his living' by exploding'
people, and calls himself a sane man. The

proper place for him is a 'asylum. He's a dangerous
lunatic, he is." As she spoke, she glanced at
him, and then her eye rested on the scrap of
paper on the floor which had fallen from his
pocket-book when he had given her Altera's
name. She stooped and picked it up. " Terence
Dunleavy, Eaggitt's Hotel, Dublin," was all that
was written upon it. Mechanically she twisted
it up, unable to bring her thoughts back from
the one absorbing topic, till she started suddenly
with a smothered exclamation, " My sakes, how
I go on a-dreaming and wasting' time ! It's nigh
four o'clock in the morning, and I ain't begun to
think about that Polly business yet."

Just then a low tap at the door aroused her
attention ; she got up and went to it. "It is
only me, Hannah," said Bob Alderney. " I
thought I should find you here, as you said you
would sit up in case you were wanted. Holloa ! "
he exclaimed, startled at seeing the unknown
visitor peacefully slumbering on the couch,
your nephew seems to be making himself at
home. How in the world did he know that he
should meet you here ? "

Never mind, Bobby — you'll know in good
time; only trust old Hannah. How's Lordy ? "

The doctors say that he is going to pull
through after all, unless he gets some unexpected
relapse ; but it seems to have been a
near thing, and the danger is not past yet. The
police appear to have got a clue to the perpetrators
of the crime. I have just had a long talk
with the chief detective, and he tells me they are
on the track of an American Irishman, who seems
to have been mixed up with it in some way."

Did he tell you his name, Bobby ? "

No ; I didn't ask, for I knew he wouldn't
tell me."

Go and find it out at oust. Tell 'em there's
reasons you can't explain now, why maybe, if
you know the name, you may be able to help
'em. Don't you fail now, Bobby — there's a deal
hangs on it ; and come back as quick as you
can."

Deary, deary," she went on to herself, when
Alderney had taken his departure, " where is this
thing a-going' to lead to ? To think that it may
fall to me to be the accuser of poor Clara's
husband ! Oh, Ned, Ned, what trouble you've
brought with you, and what joy!" she added,
after a pause ; and she slowly opened the paper
she had never ceased twisting between her

fingers, and read the name and address again
carefully.

*•' Well, Bobby, did they tell you? " she asked ashe
re-entered. " Softly, speak very low — I don't
want him woke ; did they tell it to you ? "

Yes, Hannah. I had some trouble to get it
out of him, — it's Terence Dunleavy."

Well, don't you tell anybody else," said
Hannah, without showing any sign of surprise
or recognition of the name, " but just go back to
Lordy's room and stay there ; or maybe you had
better go to bed, I don't want you any more."

Alderney cast a suspicious and lingering glance
at Ned. " Does anybody besides you know he
is here ? " he asked. " They ought to know, you
know."

"Well, I will tell 'em; but you'll spoil everything
if you meddle. Just keep) your head shut
till I give you the word to open it. Now, goodnight,
or rather good morning. Trot off."

No sooner was she left alone than she laid her
hand on the sleeper's shoulder and shook him
lightly.

It's getting' on for five, Ned ; I can't let you
sleep longer, with the work that we have afore us.
Do you know the room Polly is a-sleepin' in ? "

Not I, aunty ; but that doctor that was here
when we came could tell you, if he isn't in bed.
He seemed to have the general charge of things,
and no doubt some of the servants are up that
know."

"Are you flush of money? Have you made
much out of this killing' business ? " she inquired.

Pretty tidy. I was telling Polly, that if she
married this lord, I'd give her five thousand
dollars. I'm not a stingy man, nor one that
bears malice, aunty."

Good for you. If you were, what a lot more
people you'd blow up than you do ! It's a
dangerous business, Ned — mighty risky. There's
a man by the name of Terence Dunleavy is in it
with you, — ain't there ? "

How in Well, I won't swear, aunty,

seeing it's you ; but how came you to know
that ? "

Polly knows him, don't she ? " asked Hannah,
whose suspicions had been roused when she first
heard of Mrs Rhymer's presence in Dublin, before
the news of the accident had reached England.

What has that to do with it ? " he answered,
sulkily.

Don't you see, Ned, that I'm a-puttin' things

together, and that I know enough to do it,
whether you choose to help me or no ? But
there's this difference between your coin' it with
me, or leaving' me to do it without you : in the
first case, I do it with the police ; in the other
case, we do it together, and keep the police out
of it. That's why I want you to help me. You
see, I like that plan best — so much less risky for
you, you know. And it ain't much I ask in
return."

What is it, aunty ? " he replied ; for Mr
Charmer was a man easily open to conviction, and
with no prejudices.

Well, you've got to ship Polly off to America
by the very first steamer as sails from Queenstown.
There must be no going' up to London
first, nor making explanations to folks. She's just
got to get up and go, and that's all about it."

But suppose she won't ? "

That's just why I want you to come with me
straight to her bedroom now. She's got to, —
there ain't no suppose about it. You see, Ned,
if she says she won't, I should have to have both
you and she taken up by the police on suspicion
of been' intimate friends of Terence Dunleavy's ;
and they are on his track now, — they have his

name and his address — Eaggitt's Hotel, if I don't
disremember."

Ned made an uneasy attempt to laugh scornfully
as he said, " They are not likely to find
him there."

"Maybe not ; but I doubt whether Polly would
care to be questioned about when she saw Dun-heavy
last, and what business you and she did
together, and when she was married, and when
you were married again. They punish bigamy
by transportation in this country," said Hannah,
whose notions of the law of domicile were hazy ;
and even Ned felt vaguely alarmed. " Bless
you, you don't, neither of you, want all the past
and present of your lives raked up, as it's bound
to be oust them police gets hold of you ! Then,
to make it easier, you could promise her a few of
them dollars if she would go over quietly without
any fuss. I can make it up to you another way,
Ned ; but you must let me boss you through this
business, if you want to come out at the right
end at last."

Go ahead, aunty ! You're an all-fire smart
woman, — I'll follow your lead."

Then here we go," said Hannah, and she
touched the bell.

They were quickly shown to Mrs Rhymer s bedroom,
and Hannah entered it, leaving Ned to cool
his heels in the passage for the sake of propriety,
but keeping him as a reserve force, to be used incase
of need and when the coast was clear.

"Polly," said Hannah, throwing the light of
the candle full upon the eyes of the sleeping
beauty, and shaking her roughly, "come, wake
up."

Mrs Clamber started, rubbed her eyes, sat up,
and stared in a bewildered manner at the tall,
ghostly-looking apparition before her.

The police are after Terence Dunleavy, and
if you don't want to be took up, you must make
tracks at oust. To think," pursued Hannah, with
a confidence of assurance that seemed to paralyse
Mrs Rhymer s half-awakened wits, "after all that
you have done to the lord, of your having' the
audacity to come and sleep under his very
roof! Why, it beats all. Hurry up if you
want to escape ; you ain't got no time to lose."

It is probable that even in her coolest and
most self-possessed moments such an address
would have staggered the adventuress ; but taken
unawares, scarcely able to distinguish between
Hannah's real presence and a horrid nightmare

of her, Mrs Rhymer was thrown into a state of
absolute terror. Conscious of having been the
instigator of the crime, the most appalling consequences
presented themselves to her excited
imagination ; and Miss Coffin's aspect as she
glared at her, like an avenging angel advanced
in years, was not calculated to allay her fears.

'' Where am I ? " she exclaimed wildly, looking
round.

"Where you didn't ought to be, my dear.
Come, hurry uj), and get your duds on ; Ned's
outside waiting for you. You did not know that
your husband, that helps people to blow up their
enemies, married my niece before he married his
other wives, or you wouldn't ha' been so offish
when we first met over in Paris. He's agreed todo
what he can to help you to escape. My !
there's steps ! I wonder if them's the police ! " —
and Hannah went to the door and looked out.
Seeing all clear, she beckoned to Ned. "Now's
your time," she said, " I've sheared her 'most out
of her wits ; she thinks the police are after her —
and mind, Ned, a word from me and they will
be. I leave her to you now. When she's
dressed, bring her to my room. It's all safe yet,
Polly," she said, turning back to Mrs Rhymer,

• Where am I ? ' she exclaimed wildly, looking round"— FOi. //., Page 20i.

but it won't be long. Ned will wait outside,
and when you're dressed, he'll bring you to my
room to say good-bye. I shall have a last word to
say to you ; " and Hannah disappeared, leaving
Mrs Rhymer in a turmoil of indignation, apprehension,
and confusion, which had deprived her
of the power of expressing her sentiments of
Miss Coffin's conduct generally. In a few
moments she opened the door.

"Ned," she said, "you can come in now. Is
what that horrid woman said true?"

"True as gospel, Polly. I'm safe enough if
you can be got away before you're arrested.
You are what naturalists call the missing link
between me and Dunleavy, — that's why I've got
to ship you off, little girl ; but I will give you
something to grease the machinery of life with
after you get to the other side. I don't wonder
now that you fainted when you heard your lord
had been blown up, considering the hand you
seem to have had in it."

Whatever doubts the Rhymer may have entertained
as to immediate compliance with Hannah's
directions were dissipated by this speech. Her
conscience exaggerated the dangers of the situation,
which had been painted by both Hannah

VOL. II.

and her husband in sufficiently appalling colours.
She dressed in nervous haste, and appeared in
Hannah's little room with a promptitude which
seemed to please the old lady.

"I've told 'em to get some coffee ready for
you — leastways the doctor has. He's quite a
high-toned, nice kind of a man, Polly, and seems
so anxious to get you off, that he must kinder
know what danger you're in. He says he was
a-going' to send you off, anyways, by this train.
We've been a-lookin' at the papers, and there's
a steamer as leaves Queenstown this afternoon.
Ned will take your passage and see you off comfortable.
And you'd better stay in America till
I write and tell you that it's safe for you to come
back again. Now don't you come back afore,"
she continued, casting a withering glance upon
her, "or it will be the worse for you. It's old
Hannah says it, and you'd better believe it."

"Miss Coffin," said Mrs Rhymer, whom this
last remark stung into a retort, " if I have been
silent under your insults or accusations, it is not
because the first were deserved or the latter well
founded, but entirely owing to the false position
in which I find myself placed by the unexpected
appearance of my husband in Ireland. Out of

regard for him, as well as for my own character,
I had already decided, after assuring myself of
the condition of Lord Sark, to proceed to America
at once. My departure has therefore no reference
to your threats or unjust accusations ; nor
shall I be guided in my movements by anything
you may see fit to write, but shall return to England
whenever it suits me. In the meantime, I
trust that your combined schemes for entrapping
an English nobleman as a husband for your Californian
heiress may meet with the success which
they deserve. I can only regret that she will
have to wait so long for whatever may be left
of him."

I expect her here with Lady Adela this
afternoon to nurse him," said Hannah, who had
the satisfaction of seeing Mrs Rhymer wince
under the information. " Take her away, Ned,
and give her her breakfast, and never let me set
eyes on her in this country again ; and when
you've shipped her off, just you come straight
back here to me without losing an hour."

CHAPTER XXXIII.

THE PARTY AT KILLBOGGIN.

It was not until Miss Coffin had assured herself
that Mr and Mrs Rhymer were safely off, that she
made her presence in the castle known to Lord
Sark. She had indeed been on her way to that
nobleman's room when she met her nephew, but
his sudden appearance changed her intention ;
and she felt that she could do her host a greater
service by sending the siren who had pursued
him out of the country than by any amount of
personal attendance. Indeed, so cleverly had
she managed the matter, that even Bob Alderney
was ignorant that Mrs Rhymer had spent the
night in the castle. She now, under that gentleman's
guidance, went to his cousin's bedside.
*' Lordy, my dear," she whispered soothingly
in his ear as she sat down by him and took his

hand in hers, " it's old Hannah, come to nurse
you till your sister comes."

He moved restlessly, and murmured " Thank
you ; " but she knew instinctively the questions
which he had not strength to ask, and the cares
which were agitating his mind. " There ain't
no cause for fretting ; there's many changes has
been taking place this last twenty-four hours
that you haven't got strength to listen to now.
Perhaps when Stella comes — she'll be here with
your sister this afternoon — she'll explain 'em to
you better than I can, — many things as you
mistook, through not understanding' the nature of
tells ; but there ain't a nobler gell breathing than
Stella, no matter how she may cut up sometimes.
Now it's old Hannah says so, my dear, who has
known her for years, and you'd better believe it.
And as for them other things as is a-pressin' on
your mind, I never seed the money trouble yet
as there wasn't a way out of, leastways in Amur-rica
; and I guess it's pretty much the same here.
Bless you, they ain't o' no account ! what you
need is an easy mind, and a belief in the unexpected.
Providence can always make things turnup
in a way nobody could ever ha' foreseen. Now
there's that Rhymer packed off in a steamer for

New York this afternoon, and it was old Hannah
done it. That woman did a deal o' mischief, but
she won't trouble you any more, Lordy : it was
the devils in her, poor thing." It was difficult to
say what effect this curious speech had upon Lord
Sark's mind, as his eyes were hidden by the bandages,
and his whole face swathed in a manner
which concealed its expression ; but after a moment
his hand opened eagerly, and when she
placed hers in it, he raised it to his lips, which
seemed to be all the response the old lady required,
for her eyes glistened with tears as she
returned the pressure. " There was a man did
that to me oust before," she murmured, looking
with an analytical expression at the spot on her
hand which Sark's lips had touched. " It must
be a matter of fifty years ago now. If anybody
had told me then that I would have let that place
be kissed again by a man, and an English lord
at that, and have liked it, I should have said,
My dear, you don't know the nature of Hannah
Coffin.' Lord forgive us ! it's little we any of
us know of ourselves or of each other, and of His
wonderful dealings who can make things happen
in a way as no imagination could ha' pictured,"
— and as her mind again reverted to her

newly found niece, she sank into a reverie, from
which lie was only aroused by the entry of the
nurse.

In the evening Lady Adela, Stella, and Mattie,
in charge of Lord St Olave, arrived, and were
cheered by the doctor's report that the patient
had made remarkable progress during the afternoon.
Whether this was due to Hannah's moral
treatment, or to their own medicaments, will
never be known ; but the news of their arrival
still further contributed to relieve the mental
suffering under which Lord Sark was labouring
almost as much as from his wounds.

Stella," said Mattie that evening when they
were both sitting with Hannah in the little boudoir,
which had been appropriated to the latter,
what was the last address you gave Mr Muckle ? "

I left a letter for him at Dublin, requesting
him to go to Londonderry and wait there till he
received a telegram, which I would address to
him at the post-office, telling him the day of our
arrival, when I proposed that he should accompany
us on a trip to the Giant's Causeway. It's
rather a cold expedition for the depth of the
winter, but to the American tourist or the Cockney
lover nothing is impossible."

Oh, Stella, what a ridiculous journey to send
the poor man upon, when we haven't the slightest
intention of going near the Giant's Causeway ! "

Telegraph him to come here at onset, Stella,"
said Hannah.

To come here, Hannah I What on earth
should we do with him here?"

That's just what I want to show you when he
comes," rejoined Miss Coffin. " Just you bring
him here, and then leave him to me ; and don't
lose a moment," said the old lady, rubbing her
hands in anticipation of that event. " There'll
be no call for you to see him if you don't
want to."

It was so very unlike Miss Coffin to give a
decided direction of this sort without a very
good reason for it, that Stella did not venture
on any further remonstrance.

How shall I word it, Hannah ? " said that
young lady, taking a form — without a supply of
which she never travelled — from her travelling-bag.


Put it very strong, my *dearie, — like a gell
would to her lover, so as it may be quite sure
to fetch him."

'' Will this do ?—

Your presence here without delay essential.
Our joint happiness at stake. Reply. — Stella."

And that's true," said Hannah. '' We'd best
send Bobby with it to the telegraph-office. Mattie,
you take charge of all that."

When that young lady returned from her mission,
she had a letter in her hand. " From altera,"
she said, and eagerly opened it. " Why,
Stella, Altera says that when the Baroness went
to call on Mrs Rhymer in London, she found that
she had left town for Ireland. I wonder where
she is, and what mischief she is contriving ? "

I wonder ! " remarked Hannah, drily. Her
tone of voice arrested the attention of both girls,
who looked up quickly at her.

Oh, Hannah, you knows something, and you
won't tell us ! How mysterious you have become,
with your telegrams to Muckle, and your wondering
about the Rhymer ! "

It ain't time to tell you yet all I know, my
dears. I suppose you'll be answering that letter
tomorrow, Mattie : just tell the darling that she
ain't a-going' to be left alone in London with that
mother of hers many days longer, but I am
a-comin'' to her right away, as soon as I've settled
with this Muckle ; but you needn't say anything

about him. And say ! just leave me some
paper ; I want to write to Keitliy. And now I am
too tired to have you a-settin here any longer.
Good night, my dearies." And the two girls,
knowing from experience that when Hannah was
in an impenetrable mood it was useless to attempt
to read her riddles, took their departure, full of
speculation as to the cause of the mystery which
had suddenly enveloped her conduct.

Mr Muckle, when he received Stella's telegram
at Derry, was by no means in an amiable frame
of mind. He had flown from London on the
wings of love, with his pocket full of documents
setting forth his pecuniary value, and his heart
full of hope, but to find, on arriving at Copley-dale,
that the nest was empty, and that, as
his only consolation, Stella had left a rather
coldly worded note, saying that she and her
sister and Miss Coffin had suddenly decided on
making a tour in Ireland, and that she hoped
he would meet her in Dublin ; and she enclosed
the name of the hotel. This eccentric conduct
roused his suspicions, and he was half inclined
to return to London ; but he felt that due allowances
should be made for the caprices of
an heiress and a beauty. He reflected that

the prize was a large one, and worth a little
trouble ; and he registered a mental resolution
to pay Stella back for all the anxiety and inconvenience
to which he was now subjected, by a
pretty severe exercise of marital authority when
he once secured her as his wife. At Dublin he
was infuriated by having a letter put into his
hand, in which Stella, with a clever frankness,
admitted that she and her sister had been persuaded
by Lady Adela Washington to accompany
her to her wounded brother's estate, but that
the visit would probably only last a couple of
days, when they intended to go on a trip to the
north of Ireland, and hoped for his company on
the occasion. This letter, as it made a great
demand upon his credulity, was affectionately
worded ; and when once he had cooled off from
the anger caused by his first disappointment, he
felt consoled by the evidence it seemed to afford
of Miss Walton's sincerity in wishing to carry out
her engagement with him, in spite of the difficulties
which an accidental combination of circumstances
had opposed to their meeting. That
she should actually propose to leave the house
of his rival to travel in his company was, moreover,
doubly flattering to his vanity. So he

hastened to Deny, internally anathematising the
love of "sight-seeing which could have prompted
the journey at such a time of year. He had no
sooner arrived at his journey's end than he
found waiting; for him the telegram which we
have seen despatched, and which did not improve
his already ruffled temper. A journey more or
less, however, now made but little difference ;
he was rather glad of the excuse of paying the
castle in which its owner was lying wounded a
visit at such a time, and of course could place
no other construction upon the words of the
message than that he might consider the matter
arranged, and his bride — and, what was more
important, her fortune — secured. His journey
from Derry to Killboggin was therefore made ina
more sanguine and self-satisfied frame of mind
even than that from London to Copleydale.

"Mr Muckle will arrive this afternoon," said
Stella to Hannah, coming into her room the
following morning with a telegram in her hand.
Now that he is coming in obedience to your
wishes, and not mine, you must tell me what
you wish me to say to him."

I think that as your love affair seems to be
kinder conducted on business principles, whatever

passes should be in the presence of two
witnesses," replied Hannah, with a chuckle.

"That means, I suppose, that you wish me
to tell him the real state of the case as regards
Mattie and myself in the presence of you and
her; but I am afraid that will only have the
effect of making him mad, and driving him
straight off to Altera, and persecuting the poor
girl, by his threats of disclosing some horrible
secret, into marrying him."

You ain't got no call to be feared about
Altera, my dear. As soon as you've done with
this Muckle, I'm a-going' to take him up to London
myself," said Hannah, talking of him as
if he were a brown-paper parcel or a poodle.

What ! go up with that creature alone ! "
exclaimed Stella.

'' Why not, my dearie ? You've got Lordy to
look after, and Mattie has got Bobby, and I've
got this Muckle to 'tend to. We've each got our
duty to do in that state of life — I disremember
exactly how it goes on, being in the Episcopal
Catechism, that I haven't looked at since I was
a gell. Besides, I shan't be alone with him."

Why, who will go with you, Hannah ? "

"Well, I'm expecting' a gentleman from Cork

in an hour or two. He's a-sorter related to me.
Don't you ask no more questions now, dearie ;
let me play this game out o' my own hand.
You'll understand a good deal more when you
hear what I have to say to this Muckle."

"But have you told Lady Adela that two
gentlemen are to arrive here to-day — one to seeme,
and the other to see you — and who those
gentlemen are ? AVe must remember we are in
England, Hannah ; and we cannot be having
our friends or our enemies come to see us ina
wounded nobleman's castle, without telling
people what we're about. It's a funny thing
us three Americans being here, anyway."

Well, I never was in a wounded nobleman's
castle before, and I don't know rightly
what their manners and customs is. You go
and explain it to the Lady. You ain't seen
Lordy yet, have you ? "

No ; Lady Adela seemed to think it would
be better for me to wait a little. I suppose she
does not think it quite proper; but I'm sure
there's no nurse could do him so much good, if
you come to that," added Stella, with a pout.
I think it would be far more proper than for

her and Lord St Olave to nurse him between
them, as they do now."

*' Well, my dearie, you must just have patience
; them's all part of the manners and customs
in wounded noblemen's castles. Now you
just go and tell her about Muckle and the other."

What's the name of the other ? "

Well, you may call him Collings ; 'ain't his
real name, but it's the name the doctor knows
him by. He was here before ; and you may say
he is related to me, and it's very important I
should see him and Muckle together. Tell her
I won't keep 'em long here, and then we calculate
on going' up to London together."

Lady Adela was too good-natured to offer any
objection, and too absorbed by her cares to allow
her curiosity to be excited by Stella's request.
Two or three hours after, as Bob and Mattie
and Stella were discussing the problem which
Hannah's conduct suggested, and Bob was narrating
his previous experience of the gentleman
she had introduced to him as her niece's husband,
and whom he had seen peacefully slumbering in
her sitting-room, a jaunting-car appeared in the
avenue containing two gentlemen, whom, on their

nearer approach, were recognised to be none
other than Mr Muckle and Mr Collings.

Curious their arriving together," said Bob ;
they must have met at the junction, and come
on by the same train. I wish Hannah would let
me assist at the scene as a third witness. Let
him down easy, Stella."

"Bob," said Mattie, "mark my words — the day
that Stella lets down Mr Muckle easily will find
you hoisted up far more violently than you can
possibly imagine-with which singular remark,
and a saucy toss of her head, the young lady and
her friend took their departure.

Chapter Xxxi.

MR Muckle FEELS THAT HE IS A VICTIM.

Stella and Mattie met a servant in the hall
with Mr Muckle's card.

'* Show him into the library," Stella said.
Now, Mattie, let us first go to Hannah's room,
and see what this relative of hers is like,"

This is Mr Collings, my dears ; you'll know
his real name in a few minutes, maybe," said
Hannah. " Edward, these two young ladies and
me have some particular business with that gentleman
as you come along with from the station.
If you'll just kindly wait here, I'll send for you
when I want you. I'll leave him to you to begin
with, Stella, and pick him up where you drop
him," she added, as they left the room.

Muckle had been pacing the library in the
frame of mind characteristic of the impatient

VOL. II. P

lover who has at last succeeded in surmounting
all intervening obstacles, and needs only the
impress of the first chaste salute to seal the
long-anticipated bliss. His doubts were at an
end. That allusion in the telegram to their
"joint happiness" warranted him in taking the
fair creature to his arms the moment he saw her,
and pressing her to his heart. Every sound he
heard set that organ beating violently ; and his
excitement was augmented by the calculations
which seemed to intertwine themselves with
his tenderer sentiments when he attempted to
estimate in imagination her possible pecuniary
value. Ever since he left London he had been a
prey to the emotions of love and of speculation
alternating, as it were, within his breast. At the
moment when Stella's coldness and caprice would
damp the ardour of his flame, the thought of the
fortune which he might lose by yielding to the
influence of pique arose to check his resentment.
"If it wasn't for her money," he muttered each
time he took a new departure in his pursuit, " I
would not follow the baggage another yard." But
now that he had run to earth the money and its fair
possessor in the very stronghold of his rival, his
sense of triumph was complete, and his arrogance

grew in proportion as lie felt that the victory
was won, since it only depended upon his presence
here to secure the happiness which was
otherwise at stake. It puzzled him occasionally
to think how it could have become imperilled ;
but he was too self-confident to feel much anxiety
on the subject. " If worse comes to the worst,
I can always run away with her," he said to
himself; and just as he arrived at this decision
the door opened, and Stella, followed by Hannah
and Mattie, appeared.

Dear Mr Muckle ! " said the young lady,
running forward with a little joyous exclamation,
and both hands extended, "how good of you to
come ! What devotion you have shown in careering
all over Ireland after me ! You know I was
bound to test it. You are not angry with me ? "
By this time he was holding both her unresisting
hands, and she was looking appealingly in his face.

Hang those other two women ! " he thought,
as he gently drew her towards him ; " I think I'll
risk a kiss in spite of them."

** No, no," she said laughing, and gently disengaging
herself as she detected his intention —
not yet. I am not a prude," she added, looking
frankly straight into his eyes, " and I like being

kissed by the right person, and at the right time
and pace, as well as anybody ; but we have met
here on business, and you remember the old
proverb, ' Business first, and pleasure afterwards
It was for the business part I brought my two
witnesses ; when that is finished, I will send
them away."

^^As you please," said Muckle. ^'I am your
obedient slave, as you must have perceived from
the way I have been following you all over the
country at your behest. May I ask what is
the danger which threatens our joint happiness,
and which induced you to summon me here
so urgently?"

Miss Coffin will tell you that as soon as our
business matters are settled," she replied with
a happy inspiration, looking towards that lady,
who nodded emphatically, her lips tightly compressed.
" Have you brought the papers ? "

Yes, here they are ; " and Muckle pulled a
roll from his pocket, and attempted to smile
amiably, though he felt a good deal irritated.

I was so glad to learn from dear Altera,"
remarked Stella, who detected his suppressed
impatience, " what a sweet and equable temper
you had ! Nothing ever puts you out, does it ? "

and she slipped off the elastic band, and glanced
her eye over the lines of figures and their total
amounts. " You mean me to keep these, of
course ; they seem quite satisfactory, but I should
like to look through them at my leisure."

"They are most strictly private — confidential,"
he observed, somewhat alarmed.

I quite understand, and I will not show
them to my lawyer without first telling you.
Now, Mr Muckle, if you will kindly exchange
documents, — here is the list of all the property
I possess in the world."

I assure you it is quite unnecessary ; I could
not think of looking at it," he replied, anxious to
show his indifference to money considerations,
though he was longing to know the amount of
the total. " I beg you, my dear Miss Walton,
to keep the paper till after our marriage — it will
be quite time enough. You have only to specify
the amount you wish settled on yourself," he
added, in a fit of generosity.

That is easily stated," she replied, laughing.
If you will only glance at that paper, you will
see that I cannot ask for a larger settlement out
of my own money than ten thousand dollars."

Muckle, whose curiosity was excited as much

as his mind was relieved by this piece of information,
took the paper, and read : —

Total amount of the personal property of Mattie
Terrill,—

New York Central Railway stock, $5,000
Toledo and Wabash Railway stock, 5,000

Total, $10,000

Real estate, . . nil

This is a statement of Miss Terrill's property,"
he said, turning to Mattie; " you have handed me
the wrong paper by mistake."

No, Mr Muckle," said Mattie ; " I feel sure it
will make no difference in your sentiments as regards
my friend, if I tell you that I am the real
heiress, and that my name is Stella Walton. We
changed names when we came to Europe, because
I have always had a great horror of being married
for my fortune and not for myself. My
friend, with her beauty and her talent, is a prize
in herself, which I am not," she continued, modestly;
"and she would doubtless have revealed
her identity to you sooner, had she felt that
there was the slightest danger of your being
influenced by mercenary considerations. It washer

confidence in your disinterestedness which
has induced her to give you this opportunity of
proving it."

It was some moments before Mr Muckle, who
was too stunned and bewildered to find words to
express the tumult of his feelings, could reply.
His first clear perception of the situation was,
that he had designedly been made a fool of by
the false heiress — whom, to save confusion, I shall
continue to call Stella — from the beginning ;
and his wounded vanity, adding fire as it were
to the keenness of his disappointment, threw
him into a paroxysm of rage.

Miss Walton or Terrill, or whatever other
alias it may please you to assume," he said, rising
and addressing Stella, his lips white with
passion, "in withdrawing from the position I
have hitherto occupied towards you, I wish you
to understand that I do so not because you area
pauper, — had I known you to have been one
from the beginning, I might have still sought
your hand, — but because you are a cheat — because
you have heartlessly trifled with affections
which have been pure and disinterested, whatever
you may think to the contrary — because
you have deliberately chosen me as a subject of

sport, and have turned into ridicule the most
sacred emotions of my nature. But I am not one
upon whom practical jokes of this kind can be
played with impunity ; nor does the law of this
country, as you will find to your cost, permit
people to assume false names, forge cheques,
and otherwise impose upon society, without risk."
"Now that's just the pint you know more
about than most people, maybe, is that matter
about takin' up false names, and imposing'
on society under 'em," interrupted Hannah.
Mattie, just ask the gentleman in my room to
be so good as step this way. You didn't happen
to be acquainted with the late Mrs Peto, did
you? — Altera's real mother, I mean, not that
Baroness as imposes upon society as her mother.
Take time and don't get flurried ; you ain't
bound to criminate yourself, as the lawyers say.
We can get at it all another way ; only you
might save yourself, don't you see, by been' the
first to tell your own story. Maybe you was a
victim of a designing' woman — same as you are
now, you know. You seem a poor kind of a
ritter, anyway," she concluded, as she looked
at his white cheeks and trembling hands and
lips, contemptuously.

I don't know anything " began Muckle.

There, there, 'ain't no use a-lyin'. You was
with Grandesella in Italy at the time the Baroness
was a-livin' with Mrs Peto as her companion,
when Altera was born after her husband's
death, because you told me once you'd known
Altera ever since she was a baby, and know'd
her father ; so it ain't no good a-crying' to wriggle
out of it. You know that the Baroness ain't
Altera's mother just as well as she does herself,
or you wouldn't always be a-holdin' threats of
secrets you can tell, over her. Now this gentleman,
he saw Mrs Peto and Altera in Italy when
the Baroness was a-livin' with Mrs Peto as a
friend, and there ain't no difficulty about proven'
the child's birth nor the mother's death ; and
there wouldn't be none in shown' what hand
you had in helping' to deceive the executors and
bankers, and suchlike, by keeping' Mrs Peto's
death a secret, and passion' off the Baroness for
her. We've only got to set to work to examine
into it all ; but you might save us all that
trouble, don't you see, and no one need know
what you've bin and done, if you give a clear
story of what the Baron and the Baroness did, so
as I can get a holt of 'em. Look here you,

Muckle," said the old lady, suddenly starting up
and advancing towards him with such menacing
vehemence that he shrank back till his chair
nearly tipped over, " that dead woman, murdered
maybe, was my sister ; and the gell's my niece,
and I'm a-going' to get her back to where she
belongs, if there's necks got to wring for it.
Now, it's old Hannah says so, and you'd better
believe it."

Muckle, during this energetic tirade, had been
rapidly turning over in his mind the dangers
of the position in which he now found himself
involved. He saw before him a determined and
enterprising group of women, who, he knew
from experience, were not to be trifled with in
matters where intelligence and resolution were
concerned, who possessed almost boundless financial
resources, who were in possession of a most
dangerous witness, and who had only to make
inquiries on the spot to expose the whole fraud
which the adventurers had so boldly perpetrated
nearly twenty years before. They had calculated,
and not without reason, that, provided they
could satisfy the representatives of Mr Peto that
the Baroness was his widow, the secret of the
real widow's death could easily be preserved, sofar

as the obscure Italian village in which she
was buried was concerned. The familiarity of
the Baroness — then Mrs Crombie — with the
private correspondence of Mrs Peto, for whom
she used to act as secretary, rendered it easy for
her to continue writing as Mrs Peto, after the
death of that lady, to her man of business, and
thus, with the assistance and co-operation of the
Baron and Muckle, to retain possession of Mr
Peto's fortune, which had been left unreservedly
to his widow. No sooner did it become clear to
Muckle that the game was up — to use his own
expression — than he perceived the advantages of
the course suggested by Hannah of providing
for his own safety with that lady on the best
terms he could make with her, regardless of
any fate which might befall his partners and
accomplices.

It's quite true," he said, after a pause ; ^' the
Baroness is not Altera's mother. I was only a
clerk in the house at the time that the Baron
and Mrs Crombie, as she was then, conceived the
scheme of acquiring Mr Peto's fortune. I made
the great mistake of my life in not at once
resigning my position and retiring from the firm
when I discovered their designs. They made mea

partner to keep me silent ; and I admit my
complicity only to this extent, that, knowing
that a great wrong had been done to Altera, I
did not expose it."

Instead of trying to force her to marry you
for the purpose of getting her money, should
you fail in obtaining what you thought was
mine," said Stella. '' And you dare to talk of
my having trifled with what you are pleased to
term your affections ! "

"Let the poor ritter be," said Hannah ; "he
ain't got no sting left in him worth a cent. Mr
Muckle, this is Mr Rhymer, Mrs Rhymer's husband
that is, he was. He passed by the name of
CoUings to save his wife's character so long as
she was in the country ; but now she's gone to
the States, it don't much matter what you call
him. Him and you has got to come with me
to London. I guess we'd better start to-night.
Ned, you take charge of him while I go and see
how Lordy is, and tell the Lady that I am a-going'
away for a spell."

After a consultation with Lady Adela, to
whom Hannah confided what had just transpired,
it was decided that the news was likely to prove
iso agreeable to Lord Sark that she was to tell

him of it ; and it was arranged that Altera was
to accompany Hannah on her return to Kill-boo;
orin.- The fact that Grandesella and Muckle
were for the future rendered powerless, so far as
any interference in his financial affairs was concerned,
was evidently no less a relief to Lord
Sark than the intelligence that Altera was in
no way related to the Baron and his wife, and
that she would probably shortly be placed in
possession of her own fortune. " I have Keithyy
in London a-waiting' to help me," she said ; " and,
Lordy, don't you be anyways anxious about your
cousin, — it's my opinion that she couldn't have
a friend more able nor willing to help her than
Keithyy, and none as she would sooner be helped
by. What is it you say ? " — and she leant down
to catch his whisper — " Bring 'em both back with
me ? Yes, that I will, sure. Now you keep up
a good heart. I tell you that the way that Stella
has played that Muckle for the last two months,
to save Altera from him, and then made him
run all over Ireland after her, and then got him
snarled up here at last, with Ned Rhymer a-
keeping' watch over him, shows that she's as clever
with her head as she is loving' with her heart;
and " — bending down very low, she added in a

whisper — " I know who it is that's got her heart,"
with which comfortable assurance Hannah
gave his lordship's sound hand a squeeze, and
was gone.

That night, after Hannah and Muckle and Ned
Rhymer had started for London, Stella went into
Mattie's room and found that young lady softly
sobbing.

•' Why, Mattie darling, what's the matter ? "

Bo — ob," she sighed, with a gulp.

Well, what about Bob ? "

How am I ever to break it to him, Stella ? "

Break what to him ? "

Why, that I've got nearly five millions of
dod — dod — dollars," with a long series of catching;
sobs.

"Then let me break it to him."

No, no ; I am sure he will run away when
he hears it, and I shall never see him again.
He's set his heart on our both living on a pound
a-day."

Well, so you can, dear. You needn't spend
more than you like."

''No ; but I know that he will talk about his
honour, and say it is impossible, and — and —
that I've deceived him. It was only the other

day he was saying how lucky it was that you
were the heiress and not me, as he never would
have proposed to me if I had been richer than
he was. And I said it was awfully lucy. Oh,
Stella, what a lie we've both been living; ! It
seems as if I never had been Stella, and as if
you had never been Mattie."

Well, dear, don't let us confuse our heads or
our hearts any more just now with our own
identity. Bob will like you just as much by
either name, I'm sure ; but there's no occasion tolet
him into the secret just yet. Let's wait till
Hannah and Altera come, at any rate, and then
we'll have a regular good time. Remember how
much better off you are than I am. You can see
Bob at any time; but I am shut off from my poor
darling, who thinks I have behaved so cruelly to
him. Besides, who knows, when I have to break
to him that you are the heiress and not me,
whether I may not be in as bad a fix as you? Do
you think it possible, Mattie," said Stella, in a
sudden paroxysm of alarm, " that we may both
lose our loves through having changed places ?
What a dreadful punishment it would be ! "

^^Oh, don't, Stella!"

^' Don't what?"

Suggest such horrid things," said Mattie,
illogically. " I've a good mind really to change,
and give you all my fortune. I never thought
of that, — we can make it quite safe that way."

We'll try the other first, dear," responded
Stella, drily. " Meantime I have been too full
of Hannah's happiness in this wonderful discovery
of her newly found niece to conjure up imaginary
sorrows. Now kiss me good night."

CHAPTEK XXXV.

THE Baron AND BARONESS SUCCUMB TO
CIRCUMSTANCES.

Say, Muckle," said Hannah, who had ceased to
think that gentleman worth the compliment of
adding Mr to his name, as they were gliding into
the London terminus, " what's the best time to
catch them two conspirators together ? "

The probability is, that we shall find them
this evening, if we go there as soon as we have
had something to eat," he replied.

Well, you know what you're a-going' to say.
You've been a poor deluded victim all through,
as wants to clear your conscience by turning'
States' evidence, or whatever they call it here ;
and your conscience is a-troubling you so much
you can't a-bear it any longer — knowing that if
you did, I've other witnesses as could send you

VOL. II. • Q

to prison. Just you stick to that, and whatever
I say, you agree to, or it will be the worse for you."

The Baron and Baroness had been dining; at
home, and he was just starting for his club when
the cab containing Miss Coffin, Mr Muckle, and
Ned Rhymer drove up to his door.

Ah, Dick, mio caro! " he exclaimed, as Muckle
jumped out and handed out Miss Coffin, "whom
have we here ? What a delightful surprise ! " he
added, turning with effusion to Hannah.

Guess you're a - going' to find it so," she
murmured ; but the Baron did not hear her, and
went on —

"And the two lovely young ladies — I hope
they have returned to London ? What a pleasure
for my Altera, who has been longing to see
them again ! Present me, pray ; " for by this
time Mr Rhymer was standing on the Baron's
doorstep with the rest of the party.

This is Mr Rhymer, my nephew by his first
marriage, as come over to send his present wife,
the Baroness's great friend, you know, back to
America."

Dear me, how interesting ! How charmed
the Baroness will be to make his acquaintance !
Pray let me show you the way up-stairs ; " and

the Baron led the party — whose mixed composition
considerably puzzled him, and caused him
a vague feeling of uneasiness, which he was at
a loss to account for — towards the drawing-room.
Where have you all sprung from ? " he pursued,
hoping to solve the mystery.

Lord Sark's castle — I disremember the name
of it — was where we all started from yesterday,
if you mean that," replied Hannah ; and the
Baron was more profoundly perplexed than ever
as he ushered them into the presence of his wife
and step-daughter. Altera, seeing so unexpected
an apparition, jumped up, and, with an exclamation
of delighted surprise, flung herself into
Hannah's arms.

There, my darling ! " whispered the latter, as
she returned her embrace with equal ardour ;
you slip out, I've got something very particular
to say to the Baron and Baroness as you'll
hear about later. "This is Mr Rhymer," she
added, after bowing stiffly to the Baroness, '' as
has come to tell you that he has packed his wife,
your friend, off to the States, and he's got some
other business to talk over besides ; " and she
nodded to Altera, who left the room.

The Baron felt much relieved ; it was evident

that the visit related entirely to Mrs Rhymer's
affairs. His wife received Mr Rhymer with great
cordiality, and said she would be so interested
to hear the last news of her dear friend.

"You can tell the Baroness that afterwards,
Ned ; let us get to business first," interposed
Hannah. " Before you was the Baroness, you
was Mrs Crombie, wasn't you ? "

"I was," said the Baroness, coldly; "but I do
not know by what right you have come here to
ask me these questions."

Oh, you needn't answer any of 'em you don't
like ; it's out of nothing but wanting' to save you
having' a rough time as I've come. When you
was Mrs Crombie, you lived at an old castle in
Italy with Mr and Mrs Peto as Mrs Peto's companion,
didn't you ? "

"Go on," said the Baroness, showing symptoms
of nervousness, which she concealed beneath
a haughty sneer.

Oh, don't be in a hurry ; I am a-going' faster
nor you'll like, maybe. When Mrs Peto, who
was my niece, died, or you poisoned her — I've got
to find that out yet — you stole her name, and her
daughter, and her fortune, with the help of the
Baron there and this Muckle, and you've kept

'em ever since ? Ain't that so ? You've no call
to answer if you ain't a mind to."

The brutal directness of this charge, every
word of which issued from Hannah's pinched lips
like pellets from a pop-gun, caused the blood to
ebb from the heart of the Baroness, and for a
second she seemed to lose consciousness. It was
only by the most powerful effort of will that she
prevented herself from, fainting. The Baron felt
his courage oozing from his pores and standing
on his forehead in beads.

It's a false, vile, atrocious calumny ! " the
Baroness almost shrieked at last. It seemed to
her that it was only by raising her voice to a
scream that she could use it at all.

Well, there's Ned here ; he saw his wife's aunt
that is, my sister Fanny — when Altera was
about four months old, and she told him it washer
baby as she was a-going' to bring to America
when she got a little better, and how you was her
companion, and wasn't well the night he slept at
the castle ; and there's this Muckle, he's ready to
swear in a court of justice exactly how you and
the Baron and he did it all, — imposed upon the
lawyers and bankers, and forged my poor Fanny's
name, and all that. 'Ain't no use a-screeching

like that. I've come to talk business. This
game's played out, — there ain't no two ways
about it. Now it's old Hannah says so, and
you'd better believe it. Ain't that so, Muckle ? "

Well," said the gentleman thus appealed to,
I am bound to say, my dear friends, that I
have come to the conclusion, if you force Miss
Coffin to carry this matter to a court of justice,
to turn Queen's evidence. I have assured her
that her suspicions in regard to the circumstances
of her niece's death are entirely unfounded
— the poor lady died from natural causes.
Still, though it would be impossible to prove
the reverse, it would be disagreeable to have a
charge of murder added to the fraud, forgery,
and false personation which certainly can be
proved, whether I give evidence or no. I therefore
strongly recommend you both, for all our
sakes, to see whether it would not be possible to
compromise this unfortunate affair. I am in a
position to say that Miss Coffin is prepared to
offer certain conditions, on the acceptance of
which she will not press the matter criminally."

That's so. You put that well, Muckle," remarked
Hannah, approvingly.

During all this time the Baron remained perfectly

silent, softly drumming with his fingers on
the table, and occasionally wiping his forehead
with his handkerchief. The Baroness was breathing
quick and hard, as though in imminent danger
of going into a fit ; though her lips moved as if in
an attempt to speak, no sound issued from them.
I ain't a-going' back," pursued Hannah, " on
your treatment of that darling you call your
daughter, nor the lies you and this Muckle made
up against the character of her poor dear dead
father, because I am a-going' to take her away with
me in the cab that's waiting' at the door — and once
she's with me, she'll soon forget you and what
she suffered with you ; but I must have every
cent of my girl's money, — and you and this Muckle
have made enough out of it to pay it all back
to her, and more too, — and after that, maybe
you'll find it best to leave the country and live
abroad : because if you stay here it will have to
be known that you never was her mother, and
the thing can't be kept quiet ; but if you stay
away in other countries, people will forget all
about you, and neither me nor Altera will talk
about our family affairs. When would you propose
to start ? " she asked, after a pause, turning
suddenly upon the Baron.

Really, my clear lady, the whole thing is so
sudden, you must allow me a little time to think
it over."

Well, I'll leave you alone to put your heads
together, while I go and get my darling ready to
come along with me. Say, you ! " she said, turning
to the Baroness, "just come and show me
the room."

The Baroness perceiving that her husband had
decided not to attempt resistance to the overpowering
force of circumstances, complied without
a word. On her return, the triumvirate retired
to a corner to consider the situation, and
Rhymer became absorbed in the evening paper.
Meantime Hannah had delighted Altera's heart
by telling her that she was to leave the house
with her at once.

"There ain't no occasion for you to do more
than throw a few things together now, honey,
and we'll send for everything else that belongs
to you tomorrow ; for you're never a-going' back
to that woman, that isn't your mother, again, but
you're a-going' to live with old Hannah just as long
as ever you've a mind to. 'Ain't time to explain
it to you all now, but you need never be afraid
of having to marry that Muckle, nor been' handed

over to the Rhymer, who's gone back to the States.
Day after tomorrow, if all's settled, you'll come
along with me to Lordy's castle in Ireland, where
Mattie and Stella are."

Altera listened to this somewhat disconnected
account of the new aspect her affairs were assuming
with an amazement which almost amounted
to stupefaction, and mechanically made her preparations
for accompanying Hannah.

I expect Keithyy will be waiting' for us when
we get back to the hotel," she went on ; " he's
got to settle all the business part of this matter.
Now I'm a-going' down-stairs again. You can
put on your bonnet and follow me to the sittings
as soon as you're ready."

The Baron advanced as she entered. " My
dear lady," said that worthy, " the Baroness and
I appreciate your generosity. Perhaps, had the
prime instigator of this unfortunate transaction
not shown such willingness to betray the victims
who were tempted by him to commit this irregularity,
the Baroness and myself might have assumed
another attitude in this unhappy business.
However, we recognise the strength of your position,
and are prepared frankly to accept your
terms, on condition that the whole subject be

buried in the most profound secrecy. The Baroness
and I will take up our residence in Paris or
Rome. The fortune left to Altera by Mr Peto
shall be restored to her in full, and with its payment
all further connection between myself and
the man by whom we have been so grossly betrayed
ceases," and he looked savagely at Muckle.
As soon as ever the business part of this matter
is settled, we shall take our departure. I need not
say that I shall take leave of my dearest Altera,
towards whom I ever felt the affection of a parent,
with the most profound emotion."

I'll send Mr Hetherington here the first thing
in the morning to go into the whole matter ;
guess he's smart enough to see you don't act noways
crooked."

Ah, here comes my little Ora ! Good-bye,
caressing mia, for the last time ! " exclaimed the
Baron, and opened his arms with effusion.

Good-bye, mamma," said Altera, after receiving
the Baron's salute.

Altera," broke in Hannah, sternly, " never
you go to use that word to that woman again ;
and don't go wasting your feelings upon her,
honey — she ain't with it."

For Altera, overcome by the suddenness of
the changes that were in process around her, and
of which she understood so little, had been unable
to restrain her tears at the thought of an
indefinite separation, apparently attended with
disgrace to those whom she had regarded as
parents, and with whom she had spent her life,
even though they had made it a suffering one.

It has not been possible for me to understand
what has happened," she whispered to the
Baroness, " but I shall see you again in spite of
everybody."

I doubt it, when you know all," replied that
lady, sadly ; " but perhaps you may, for you have
a noble heart, Altera, and are not to be judged
like other people. Good-bye, my dear ; " and
Altera followed Hannah down-stairs, the Baron
accompanying the party with the utmost suavity
to the cab.

Perhaps," he said to Hannah, as he politely
offered her his arm across the pavement, " there
would be no objection, provided we both undertake
to reside abroad, to my coming across to
London alone for a few days on business ? "

On condition that your wife never, under

any circumstances, accompanies you, I don't see
no harm in it. But look ye here, you've got to
act square right straight through this matter,"
and she fixed him with her eye under the
gas-lamp, — " old Hannah ain't one to be trifled
with."

Chapter XXXVI.

A JOINT CONFESSION.

The soothing words of Hannah's hist interview
with Lord Sark acted like balm to that nobleman's
wounded spirits. Though incapable of
unimpeded utterance, owing to the injuries he
had received, his intellect, after the first few
hours, had become perfectly clear ; and the conviction
which now began to force itself upon
his mind, that Stella had loved him always, and
had been trifling with Muckle merely to save
his cousin from persecution by that individual,
rendered it difficult for him to remain at ease, with
the consciousness that he was separated from her
loved presence only by a few walls and doors.
During the long hours of the night, when he
was unable to sleep from pain, he was harassed
by the conflicting considerations which presented

themselves. Could lie venture to press for an
interview with a girl who had never given him
reason to suppose that she returned his affection,
under such peculiar circumstances ? AVould her
sense of propriety be shocked, and would he
place her in a position from which her natural
delicacy would shrink ? If he overrated her feelings
towards him, would it not be subjecting
them to too severe a strain to ask her to visit an
object, blinded, disfigured, and almost incapable
of speech ? And might not the effect be to destroy
the tender shoots of a sentiment which
might be growing for him ? On the other hand,
Hannah spoke with the conviction of positive
assurance ; and if she was really longing to be
with him, and only restrained from a sense of
maidenly modesty, what a solace and consolation
was he not losing ! The result of a night passed
in restless questionings with his own mind was
a slight increase of feverish disturbance, which
the doctors were at a loss to account for, regard
being had to the condition of the wounds.

Is there anything troubling you, dear ? "
asked his sister — " you seem so restless ; is the
pain worse ? "

Better," he replied.

alien what is it?"

He gave a little moan. Then he felt that it
would be better for him to know the worst —
even that she refused to come — than this suspense,
so he murmured, " Stella."

Lady Adela reported this symptom to the
doctor.

Excuse me, my dear lady," replied the little
man, " is he in love with her ? "

I think so," said Lady Adela, colouring
slightly.

Then she is the very best remedy we can
possibly administer — that is, if she returns his
affection. We shall know that when we tell her
that his lordship desires to see her. Will you
kindly communicate his lordship's wishes at
once ? "

Lady Adela found the girls with Bob Alderney
in the library, listening to a letter which that
gentleman had just received. " Oh, Adela," he
said, when she returned, " I have just heard from
Hetherington. I told him, you know, to see
that fellow Casseroll, and do something about
postponing that meeting of Sark's Company,
which seems to have been the cause of this
unfortunate journey. It seems the whole tragedy

has created such a sensation, as well it might,
that it has been decided to postpone all action
for the present. So that's good news. It will
relieve poor Sark's mind awfully, I'm sm^e."

Would you like to be the bearer of such
good news?" said Adela, turning to Stella.
Sark has expressed a wish to see you ; and the
doctor urges it so strongly, that I don't think
there can be any impropriety in it, as it may do
him so much good, poor fellow ! But don't go,
Stella," she added, " unless you can tell him
what will make him happy."

The colour rushed into Stella's face, as the
desire to go to him, which had been growing
almost uncontrollable, was at last about to be
realised.

I'll do what I can to " but the sentence

remained unfinished in consequence of the violence
of the embrace which the impulsive Mattie
felt at this moment constrained to give her.

Be very nice to him, darling," she whispered,
and take care you don't give him too sudden a
shock when you break it to him you're not me ;
and remember, that just at the same time I shall
be breaking it to Bob that I'm not you. Oh my,
I do feel so frightened ! I was only giving hera

little wholesome advice," she said to Lady
Adela, as an apology for the whisper. " Now run
off, Stella, and behave yourself properly;" and
Lady Adela, followed by Stella, left the room.

Bob, dear," Mattie said, when they were
alone, "just feel my hand ; isn't it cold ? "

"It is indeed, my darling ; what makes it so ?
Let me warm it," and he carried it to his lips.

Sheer fright — nothing but fright ; just feel
my heart, how it is beating ! "

Bob obeyed. " Why, so it is, little fluttering
thing," and his arm unconsciously glided round
her waist.

Oh, Bob, forgive me — don't squeeze quite so
much — I have deceived you, and done very
wrong. I have got a terrible confession to
make." At this Bob's arm gently withdrew, and
Mattie gave a sob. " Oh, I feel as if I was going
to faint. Hold me. Bob, or I shall never have the
courage to tell you ; but promise first that you'll
love me just the same."

Don't frighten a fellow out of his life, Mattie,"
said Bob, somewhat sternly. " Of course I will
love you just the same, if you have not done anything
to be ashamed of."

But I am ashamed of it, — that's just the

VOL. II. R

trouble, Bob," lie said, and she gazed at him
through brimming eyes. " I'm a fraud. I'm
a livings lie."

Good heavens ! " he ejaculated.

So is Stella," she added, solemnly.

Mattie, you'll drive me mad with your self-accusations.
Out with it, and let me know the
worst."

Well, I'm Stella, and Stella's me."

Bob got seriously alarmed. " She is certainly
going out of her mind," he thought.

'' Mattie, darling, am I going to lose you ? " he
murmured, as the vision of an asylum presented
itself.

Not if I know it, dear. Of course you don't
change to Stella, because Stella's me. You stick
to me all the same. Oh, Bob, how stupid you are 1 "

Well, dear, I confess I feel a little confused ;
try and clear your head a little."

Clear your head, you mean. Don't you
see, if I am Stella Walton, that I'm the great
heiress, worth five millions of dollars, — and that
Stella is Mattie Terrill, not worth more than ten
thousand ? "

When did you become Stella Walton ? " he
asked, still doubtful about her sanity.

When we first arrived in Paris we changed
names, because I was so afraid some one might
want to marry me for my money ; and now I am
afraid, because I've got it, that you won't want
to marry me."

I shall always want to marry you, Mattie, —
Stella, I mean. Good heavens ! what am I to
call you ? But this alters our relative circumstances
so materially that I hardly know what to
think. You have done very wrong, Mattie, to
practise such a wicked deception and place mein
such a false position."

I know it, Bob, dear," she sobbed, penitently.
Just think how bad it must be for Stella.
She's telling Sark now that she's herself — no —
that she's me ; I mean that she's Mattie, and not
Stella at all. Do you think he'll mind. Bob,
dear?"

Well, I don't suppose he'll mind half as much
as I do. I should begin to feel a fraud myself if
I got all that money, — as if I had robbed Sark.
Oh, St — attire, M — ella I mean, what a muddle
and a mess you've got us all into ! "

Oh," said Mattie, and she clapped her hands,
I know how to make it all straight. You go
right away up to London and find out all about

Sark's money troubles, and I'll give you as much
as ever you want to buy up the whole of that Company.
We'll buy every share, Bob; and then we'll
have a meeting of contented shareholders — that
will be you and me, with Stella for the Board and
Sark for chairman ; then we'll scintillate the universe
with electricity, declare dividends, and live
happy ever afterwards."

"Well, Mattie, if you really want to divide
your fortune between Sark and me, I suppose
I must let you do it," said Bob ; " that certainly
is a way out of it. I never could keep such a
sum all to myself; and I can't lose you because
you happen unfortunately to be a millionaire."

If you've quite forgiven me. Bob, don't you
think we ought to make it up ? " pleaded Mattie.
So they made it up, and, after a pause, she added
" Oh, how glad I am it's over ! Poor Stella !
I wonder how she broke it to Sark ! "

It was indeed with no small internal trepidation
that the apparently calm and stately Stella
had followed Lady Adela to her brother's bedside.

Here's Stella come to see you, dear," she said
to Sark. " I have got some matters to attend
to, so I shall leave her to take care of you for a
little."

He held out his hand, and Stella, trembling
with the wave of tenderness and pity that seemed
to flood her whole being, placed hers in it.

How kind ! " he murmured.

I wanted to come before, but they would not
let me. I have been so miserable, thinking how
unhappy I made you ; but indeed I did it for the
best. I trusted to being able to explain matters
later. You understand it all now, don't you ? "

He pressed her hand.

And you quite forgive me ? "

As he raised it to his lips, he felt that she was
trembling violently.

"You don't know all yet. You have still
something to forgive. Mattie and I have been
very foolish. She persuaded me, before we left
America, to change names ; and of course in
doing so we changed fortunes. It was a girlish
freak. She was afraid of being persecuted for
her money, and I rather enjoyed the idea of
baffling the fortune-hunters; but I am really
Mattie Terrill, with only £2000 in the world."

He gave a groan. Poor Stella's heart stood still.
So, then," she thought bitterly, " he's like the
rest, — he only wanted me for the money." She
would have withdrawn her hand, but he held it

firmly. "I was wrong," she thought, bitterly,
not to have waited till he got stronger, and
could have borne the shock better." Then he
spoke. " Darling ! " was all he said ; but it is
amazing what a wealth of meaning may be compressed
into a single word — what riddles it may
solve, what suspense it may remove, what misunderstandings
it may clear up — and when one's
faculty of speech is limited, how clever one
becomes at finding the right one I

Why do you groan, dear ? " she whispered, as
she bent over him ; " are you in pain ? "

No."

You don't doubt my love ? "

A still tighter pressure was the response.

'don't try to tell me now, my own," she
cooed softly over him ; " and whatever happens,
I am yours, if you will have me — it will give
me the right to watch over you and nurse you ;
and you must try and get well for my sake.
Lady Adela," she said, as that lady entered the
room, '' Mattie and I have a little secret to tell
you presently, which I have already revealed to
your brother. He has given me the right to be
his nurse now, because I am to be his wife when
he gets well ; and he is quite decided to do that

for my sake. Oh, I know what is troubling your
mind," she exclaimed, suddenly; "just think of
my forgetting it till now ! but then the other
matter was so much more important, I am sure
it was no wonder. Bob has just got a letter
from Keith Hetherington, and he says that Mr
Casseroll tells him that the meetings of the shareholders
of your Company is to be put off for
the present. In the meantime," added Stella,
drawing upon her imagination, " in consequence
of some developments which you are too weak to
attend to now, it is probable that the whole affair
weill be easily and satisfactorily arranged. I am
sure I don't know what they are," she said to
herself ; " but I think, under the circumstances,
that was a little moral tonic which I was justified
in administering. "

When she rejoined Bob and Mattie, she found
that at the very moment the idea had occurred to
her these new developments were actually in progress,
for the first thing that Mattie said was —

Oh, Stella, Bob and I have hit upon such a
delightful way of solving all Sark's pecuniary
difficulties. We are going to arrange it all with
Keith Hetherington when he comes with Hannah
and Altera. It is a profound secret, and I can't

even tell it to you, but you can tell Sark that lie
need give himself no more concern about that
Company : it will hasten his recovery, I am
sure. I had such trouble breaking it — you know
what I mean — to Bob. We almost quarrelled.
Did Sark take it easily, dear ? "

Why, Mattie, you talk of ' it ' as if it was a
pill ; and, after all, you are not far wrong, for it
was me he had to swallow, with the gilt rubbed
off. Yes, dear, he gulped ' it ' down like a man."

I'm sorry I can't say the same for Bob. He
seems to like his pills best without the gilt. But
so long as they take them, dear, what does it
matter what sort of faces they make over them,
or what names they call us by? They'll soon
get used to our middle initials. Mine is F., sir,
remember, and stands for Fay. Henceforth,
Bob, you must call me Fay."

"And what's Stella's?" asked Bob.

"J., which stands for Jones," replied that
young lady, laughing; "but Sark is going to
invent a much prettier one, which I will give
you leave to call me by when we are married."

CHAPTEK Xxxvi

altera's last words.

I HAVE been trying to understand the relations
which our natural ideas of time bear to the
changes, both external and internal, through
which we pass ; and I find that it is absolutely
impossible to establish any correspondence between
them. I believe that Time hatches or
evolves catastrophes, both moral and material,
out of long periods of incubation. This epoch is
naturally characterised by monotony. The storm
which is to burst upon us from without, brews
we know not where. It gathers its forces together
silently; and the lull which precedes it
is so universally recognised, that it has become
a proverb. So the revolution which is being
prepared within is unmarked by any conscious
moral disturbance that can at all account for the

completeness of the change when it comes. The
elements at work are as subtle in their operation
as those of external nature, and the sudden
burst of spring upon a scene which has been
locked in the embraces of a Canadian winter
but faintly portrays the aspect of the soul when
it awakes to the touch which is to evoke its
latent harmonies. More than six months have
now elapsed since I described an episode which I
foolishly imagined for a day had caused some responsive
chord in my inmost nature to vibrate,
and which led me to listen sympathetically to
the silly rhapsodies of Eonald MacAlpine. The
whole of my life prior to this last six months
seems to have been the long winter of my discontent,
unmarked by change, and concealing
beneath its cold monotony the unsuspected elements
of that revolution in the outward circumstances
of my existence, no less than in its hidden
moral recesses, which has since overtaken me. A
transformation has taken place in the external
relations of my life, and in my most sacred
affections, under the influence of which I seem
to have blossomed into a new being. If I try to
trace the periods of my development into these
new conditions, I find the first marked change to

have taken place under the influence of Keith
Hetherington during the first week of my seclusion
at Copley dale. I did not then know or suspect
the nature of that influence as I know it now ;
but the soil had been prepared, and the seed
which the sower went forth to sow fell upon good
ground. I am perfectly certain, after a careful
internal analysis, that the same seed, sown a
year before, would have withered. Some day,
perhaps, I shall write something on the laws
governing moral receptivity. They are absolutely
ignored by the majority of seed-sowers : the
consequence is, that the amount of seed wasted
is something frightful to contemplate. I was
explaining this point the other day to Mr Sidney
Chalfont, in whom I take a great interest, as I
observe signs of preparation in him. He said
he had never considered the subject from this
point of view, and thought that it was his duty
to scatter the seed broadcast, and let it take its
chance where it fell — a manifest error, arising
out of his ignorance of the laws of receptivity.

The next great evolutionary epoch, so far as
regards the structure of my own internal organism,
was when Aunt Hannah revealed to me
the secret of my birth and parentage, so far as

my mother was concerned, and her own relationship
to me. The rupture of the tie which
had bound me filially to the Baroness set loose
within me an entirely new set of forces, the very
existence of which had been so suppressed by the
supposed relationship between us, that they were
unsuspected by me. This has given rise to a
very interesting series of considerations, as bearing
upon congenital affinities. The circumstance
that I believed that the blood of the Baroness
coursed in my veins, and that I was in actual
fact her own daughter, produced such an effect
upon that part of my interior structure ignorantly
called " imagination," that certain abnormal
and disorderly forces were called into operation,
to the entire suppression of others properly
destined to exercise a most potent influence over
my character. The extinction of these false
forces opened the door to the evolution and free
play of those that had been latent ; and that
part of the organic interior structure in which
they reside is consequently taking a new development.
It is only within the last few days
that I have entered upon the third period of
protoplasmic change, — a term which I venture

to use, not because it means anything very-definite
to those familiar with the finer constituent
elements of the interior organic structure,
but because scientific men would not understand
any other. They will probably be ready
to admit that the conditions of protoplasm must
be modified by the emotions, and that the most
powerful of all emotions is the affectional instinct.
Hence, when, under the influence of Keith
Hetherington's teaching, I developed a new love
of my species and their Maker, and determined to
devote my life to their service, a protoplasmic
modification took place, which was still more
accentuated when I was relieved from the violent
emotional effort to which I had been subjected
all my life, of attempting to love a woman who
was not my mother, and when I found a near
relative in the person of my Aunt Hannah, upon
whom my distorted or suppressed affections
could be freely and legitimately lavished. And
now, once more, the affectional instinct has been
violently roused, and I am conscious of an internal
change into new conditions being operated
within me. It was only three days ago, — Sark
had been wheeled out upon the terrace to inhale

the balmy spring air ; it was the first day that
his eyesight was so far recovered that he could
bear the light. Stella was walking by his side,
her hand in his. As soon as he is well enough —
the doctors hope in three months from now —
they are to be married. Bob Alderney was pushing
his chair, and Mattie was pretending to help
him. They were married a month ago. Mattie
whom we now call Fay — wanted to wait till
she could be married on the same day as Stella
and Sark, but Bob was too impatient. Aunt
Hannah and I were walking some distance behind.
All this at Copley Grange, which the Dashingtons,
who had gone abroad to economise, have
let to the Alderney for a year, — I should not
wonder if they were ultimately to buy it, — when
I saw Keith Hetherington coming towards us.
Keith and Bob had been much occupied, during
the first weeks of Sark's illness, buying up all
the shares of the Universal Scintillator Company
with Mattie's money, and succeeded in winding
up its affairs in the most complete manner,
without Sark's knowing anything about it until
it was done. I then charged him to negotiate
for me the purchase of Copleydale Cottage ;

and here Hannah and I have now arranged to
take up our abode when we are not staying at
the Grange. Meantime it has been repaired,
added to, and furnished anew, under Keith's
superintendence.

I have just come over from the Cottage," he
said : " the last van-load of furniture has arrived ;
it only needs the presence of the mistress of the
house to come and set it in order."

I am afraid my unassisted efforts," I replied,
would shock the aesthetic tastes of Mr MacAlpine."


So far you will fail utterly to make it resemble
an old curiosity shop. There is a striking
absence of bric-à-brac ; and you will be able to
move about freely without fear of knocking over
tables knee-high."

Let us all drive over tomorrow," said Fay
Alderney, who had fallen back to join us, "and
help you to consider the weighty question of the
disposition of the tables and chairs ; besides, I
want to see that Hannah is properly cradled in
the lap of luxury."

''Altiora and Keithyy and me ain't a-going' to
cradle ourselves in no kind of a lap," said my

aunt ; " we've got some work to do. I don't
calculate on living' here regular. Why, 'twas only
the other day Altera was a-saying' all she counted
on was having' what she called a Peter tare."

It was to be a pied-deterred for me, not you,
aunt; it is to be your home."

My aunt looked at me in a very peculiar way
when I made this remark. " Keithyy," she said,
take her away and talk to her — the time's
come. There's Lordy a-beckonin' to us, Fay
Alderney ; " and Hannah rolled her darling's new
name out with great unction. Keith took me
down the path through the shrubbery that
follows the river-bank.

You know what your aunt wants me to say
to you, Altera?" he said, as we sat down on
a rustic bench, with the stream eddying and
gurgling at our feet.

Yes," I said, " I think I can guess ; " and I
felt my heart beating and my cheeks flushing.

"It doesn't require any telling, does it?
You've known it all along, haven't you?"

I think so," I again said, in an undertone ;
and yet," I added, in a trembling voice, " I
didn't feel quite sure."

You didn't feel quite sure ! " he exclaimed, ina
surprised voice.

I mean I didn't exactly know what kind it
was ; and," after a pause, "I don't quite know
now."

You mean that you have known that I have
loved you almost ever since we first met, but
that you didn't quite know the nature of my
love ; is that what you mean to say, Altera ? "

Yes."

I've never asked you whether you have loved
me, have I ? "

''No."

But you do, don't you ? "

Here, foolishly enough, I began to tremble
violently, and found it quite impossible to use
either of the monosyllables to which I seemed to
be confining my conversation.

"Do you know why you can't answer ? because
you don't exactly know the nature of your own
love for me. Our love for each other is not a
common love. That is a phrase in ordinary
usage among lovers who wish to express by it
the uncommon intensity of their devotion ; but
that is not what I mean — it is, that the nature

VOL. II. s

of our devotion to each other is not of a common
kind. Do you know why ? "

"No," I said, at last recovering my voice to
that amount.

Because it is not based on an exclusive love
for each other, which in its essence is a purely
selfish love, but on the love of a common service,
to which we are both dedicated : the love-current
does not flow direct from one of us to the other,
but it flows from God through us to humanity.
Take away our love and our service for them,
and our love for each other perishes. It is in
that greater love that our lesser love is held and
comprised until absorbed by it. It partakes of
its magnitude, and acquires a force and intensity
unknown to those who are wrapped up in each
other to the exclusion of every interest which
does not centre in themselves. Theirs is a love
as certain to decay with time, on one side or the
other, possibly on both sides, as ours is to grow
and expand in the degree in which we lose ourselves
in that highest love common to us both."

Where will our work lie ? " I asked.

Chiefly in the hearts of men ; but it will not
lie in speech but in deeds, and they may take us

anywhere. Nor would it be necessary, except
for what the world might say, that we should
marry, since our love is of a kind that the world
knows nothing of, and depends on something far
more internal, and therefore solid, than that
which unites ordinary mortals. You feel that,
don't you, Altera?"

Yes," I answered ; and it seemed as though,
with the surrender of my life to his, our very
souls had melted into each other. " I did not
know such happiness could be felt by human
beings," I murmured, and placed my trembling
hand in his. We sat for some moments in
silence ; but the veil which curtained the inner
sanctuary in each seemed to have been lifted, so
that we could hold communion without speech,
and feel the divine thrills of a higher inspiration
uplifting us in a common supplication, and a
common dedication of our beings to mankind,
and therefore to each other.

That was beyond the power of Church or
priest," he said at last, and he pressed his lips to
mine. " Now, if you like, we will go to Sark and
Stella, and tell them that we will add our ceremony
to theirs."

Thus it was that my life culminated to its
crisis ; and I felt another and unseen presence by
my side as, with my arm in Keith's, we strolled
slowly back — and I knew it was my father.
The time has come for you to change your
name," he seemed to say, " for you have sought
and found."

THE END.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD And SONS,

emi"

'^^^

Mem

tjm

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

30 112 055262981

^%"

IWc '

^4 #r1

'^|f.
